-- Bad Smell of Lobbyists Clings to Financial Bill: Susan Antilla
-- Susan Antilla
-- 2010-06-29T16:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/bad-smell-of-lobbyists-clings-to-financial-bill-susan-antilla.html

          
          
             (Corrects 16th paragraph to indicate that fee is a minimum.)  
 At 2,315 pages, the Dodd-Frank
Conference Report of proposals to fix U.S. financial regulations
isn’t the stuff of summer beach reading.  
 It is, though, a starting point to understanding just how
messed up financial regulations had become by the time the
economy all but collapsed in 2008. And it gives great hints as
to how serious lawmakers are about helping everyday, mere mortal
investors who don’t worry about life-and-death issues like
whether they will pocket a gazillion dollars in bonuses.  
 If you work outside of finance and count your fortunes in
figures that have just one comma, here are the highlights and
lowlights of the package that politicians will be voting on in
the days ahead:  
 -- Whether stockbrokers should act in your interest.  
 Amazing as it sounds, there is no law that says they have
to.  
 People who are licensed as investment advisers are stuck
with a mandate to put their customers’ interests ahead of their
own. Sometimes they don’t, and if they’re caught, their
liability is measured by the high standard of “customers
first.”  
 Brokers who similarly give advice to customers need only
recommend stuff that is suitable. Investor advocates pushed to
force everyone to place the customer first, and a 2008 Rand
Corp. study for the Securities and Exchange Commission has
already determined that, as far as investors can tell, brokers
and advisers do the same thing.  
 Bottom line in the reform package: wimp lawmakers are
telling the SEC to do yet another study before addressing the
issue.  
 Broker Conflicts  
 -- Whether brokers who sell only their own brand-name
products -- say, the Acme Brokerage Firm that sells Acme Mutual
Funds -- should make sure customers are aware of the conflict of
interest when potentially less expensive, better products aren’t
considered or recommended.  
 Lawmakers are properly suggesting that the SEC might want
to write a rule on this. The financial supermarket doesn’t work
like the supermarket where you buy eggs and toilet paper. The
generic brand from your stockbroker can be an expensive choice.  
 -- Whether the SEC should establish a rule that forbids or
imposes limitations on brokers’ mandatory arbitration contracts,
the coercive agreements that force customers to use industry-
run, private courts in the event of a dispute.  
 Such clauses have kept brokerage-firm abuses under wraps
for decades. The SEC can establish a rule on arbitration if it
finds the contracts aren’t in the public interest, the bill
says. Let’s see if the agency has the guts to favor investors
over brokers, and allow a choice between public and closed-door
courts.  
 Slide Over  
 -- Should sleazebags who get caught breaking investment-
adviser rules be allowed to slide on over to jobs as
stockbrokers?  
 The new bill suggests such permissiveness isn’t a great
idea, proposing a “collateral bar” that would mean if you
break the rules in one financial forum overseen by the SEC, you
would be blacklisted from all the others, too.  
 In a similar vein, lawmakers are suggesting that felons and
securities lawbreakers not be allowed to offer securities under
 Regulation D , the loosey-goosey rule that lets some companies
sell securities without first registering with the SEC. Stand by
for the outraged press releases from the Friends of Reg D Felons
Association.  
 Paying Peanuts  
 -- Should financial firms pay more for insurance?  
 Lawmakers are saying brokers should cough up additional
money into a fund that reimburses investors when firms go under.
The legislation suggests that members of the  Securities Investor
Protection Corp. , or SIPC, pay 0.02 percent of their gross
revenue each year into the fund to make investors whole when a
firm fails. As of now, SIPC firms pay -- are you ready for this?
-- a minimum of $150 a year. Not even  Loehmann’s  has ever
boasted a better bargain.  
 -- How about checking up on how well the SEC is doing its
job?  
 Proving, perhaps, that they at least have a sense of humor,
creators of the Dodd-Frank bill have suggested that the
comptroller general of the U.S. submit a report to Congress
every three years detailing the competence of the staff of the
SEC and telling what the agency has done about employees “who
have failed to perform their duties.”  
 Left to Imagination  
 It can only be left to the imagination how one measures job
performance of rogue staffers caught running personal businesses
and perusing porn on the job. The comptroller would also track
how well SEC-supervised associations like the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority do at things like managing their own funds.  
 Let’s hope we one day learn how it was that Finra bailed
out of millions of dollars of its own auction-rate securities
before they collapsed in 2007, while the poor-schmo investors
Finra was supposed to protect were meanwhile being sold similar,
doomed securities by many of Finra’s members.  
 Investors were considered, and sometimes helped, in the
proposed legislation. But the bad smell of lobbyist tinkering
wafts in too often. Studies provide helpful fodder for idle
columnists but mean nothing to neglected investors who need
action, not stall tactics, to move ahead, post-crisis.  
 ( Susan Antilla  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Susan Antilla  in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        