-- Bahraini Court Rules in Favor of Placing Awal Bank Under Administration
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-06-29T15:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/bahraini-court-rules-in-favor-of-placing-awal-bank-under-administration.html

          
          
             The Central Bank of Bahrain said a
local court ruled in its favor, rejecting an appeal against
placing  Awal Bank BSC  under administration after it defaulted on
loans.  
 The court ruled on an appeal by Awal Bank’s former Chairman
 Maan al-Sanea  against the decision made by the central bank in
July last year, the bank said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 “The ruling today clearly validates our decision and we
will continue to support the independent administrators,” said
Khalid Hamad, executive director of banking supervision at the
central bank in the statement. “Their priority is the
realization of Awal Bank’s assets, for the benefit of all
stakeholders and creditors, through all available means.”  
 Bahrain’s central bank seized control of Awal Bank and The
International Banking Corporation BSC in July after they
defaulted on loan payments. A central bank report showed that
debts at the two lenders, Bahraini units of Saudi Arabia’s Saad
and Algosaibi groups respectively, exceeded their assets.  
 U.K.-based law firm Charles Russell LLP, Awal’s external
administrator, together with Baker Tilly Restructuring and
Recovery LLP, have worked with the central bank to recover money
owed and have initiated legal proceedings across a number of
jurisdictions, including Bahrain, London, New York, the Kingdom
of Saudi Arabia and the Cayman Islands, the central bank said.  
 U.S. Court  
 Awal also filed for bankruptcy in a U.S. court in September
and listed more than $1 billion in assets and debt in its
Chapter 15 petition. Under Bahrain law, Awal’s administrator has
two years to decide if the bank should liquidate or be returned
to management and shareholders, said lawyers from the bank’s
U.S.-based counsel, Quinn Emanuel Urquhart Oliver & Hedges LLP.  
 Awal’s assets were about $5.5 billion against debt of $2.75
billion as of July 31, 2009, according to an unaudited balance
sheet cited by the company in court documents in the U.S.  
 The Manama-based investment bank mostly lends to other
banks in the Middle East and Europe. Its three shareholders are
al-Sanea and two entities he owns, Saad Investments Co., which
is liquidating in the Cayman Islands, and Saudi Arabia-based
Saad Trading, Contracting & Financial Services Co., according to
court documents.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shaji Mathew  in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net 
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        