-- Barnes & Noble Falls After Forecasting Possible Loss on E-Book Investments
-- Matt Townsend
-- 2010-06-29T18:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/barnes-noble-slides-after-book-seller-s-loss-trails-analysts-estimates.html

          
          
             Barnes & Noble Inc. , the largest
U.S. bookstore chain, fell the most in 19 months after
forecasting a possible loss for the fiscal year because of a
$140 million investment in its digital book unit.  
 For fiscal 2011, Barnes & Noble projected breakeven to a
loss of 40 cents a share, according to a statement yesterday.
Analysts on average had forecast a profit. Cash flow from
operations won’t be generated this year because of money
invested in its digital book strategy and store improvements,
the New York-based company said today on a conference call.  
 “The market is concerned on their investments in digital
technologies next year,” said  Michael Souers , a New York-based
analyst with Standard & Poor’s, who recommends holding the
shares. “It’s hard to know how long it’s going to take to
monetize the investment.”  
 Barnes & Noble  declined $2.79, or 17 percent, to $13.62 at
2:52 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading , after
falling as much as 18 percent for the biggest intraday drop
since November 2008. The shares lost 14 percent this year before
today.  
 Market Share  
 Barnes & Noble has been trying to offset declining sales at
its bookstores by investing in its digital book reader, the
Nook, and applications to sell e-books. The company said today
that its market share of digital books grew to 20 percent from
2 percent since releasing the Nook in November.  
 “The management team here is extremely excited that right
after launching an e-reader we are capturing this kind of sales
growth,”  Joseph Lombardi , chief financial officer, said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  
 The retailer expects U.S. sales of trade books to increase
17 percent to $27 billion by 2014 and for digital titles to rise
to more than 20 percent of that, from less than 5 percent now.
U.S. digital book sales tripled last year to $313.2 million, as
the total market declined 1.8 percent to $23.9 billion.  
 Barnes & Noble cited the growth of its online business,
which includes digital books, to reinforce the need for its
investment. The unit’s revenue rose 51 percent to $141 million
in the fourth quarter ended May 1.  
 Online revenue will increase 75 percent to $1 billion this
year, the company said. Barnes & Noble doesn’t provide sales
figures for digital books or its Nook reader.  
 ‘Most Explosive’  
 “Digital publishing and digital book selling will soon
become the most explosive development in the history of our
industry and will sweep aside those who aren’t participating,”
 Leonard Riggio , the company’s founder and chairman, said during
the presentation.  
 The increase in digital sales will cause a drop in revenue
from paper books and prompt the company to close as many as
10 Barnes & Noble stores each of the next three years, he said.  
 Barnes & Noble, which operates 720 bookstores and 637
college locations, said it expects online revenue to make up
31 percent of the  company’s total  by 2014, increasing from
10 percent now. Digital books have a 20 percent profit margin,
compared with 30 percent for paper books sold in stores, the
retailer said.  
 “The market is also trying to digest the margin impact,”
said Souers, who today changed his annual per-share earnings
estimate for the company to a loss of 12 cents from profit of
92 cents. “If they do grow sales and continue to gain share,
that will have an impact on earnings down the road.”  
 Excluding some items, the fourth-quarter loss was 89 cents
a share, the company said yesterday. Analysts  predicted  a loss
of 81 cents, the average of five estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The  net loss  widened to $32 million, or 58 cents a
share, from $2.69 million, or 5 cents, a year earlier.  
 The retailer’s college bookstores, purchased last year,
accounted for 50 cents of the loss, including 15 cents from
interest costs, Lombardi said. The February-through-April
timeframe is generally a loss in the College Bookstore business.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        