-- Berlusconi Targets `Blind' Who See as Budget Cuts Tackle Fraud
-- Flavia Rotondi
-- 2010-06-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/berlusconi-attacks-blind-woman-who-can-see-as-deficit-cuts-target-fraud.html

          
          
             Maria, a 55 year-old unemployed
woman from Naples, crosses herself when asked about  former
Councilman  Salvatore Alaio. “The man is a saint,” she said.
Alaio helped her get a disability pension for blindness, even
though she can see.  
 To Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , Alaio
exemplifies the corruption that’s choking Italy’s welfare system
and bloating public spending.  
 Alaio defrauded the state of about 2 million euros ($2.5
million) from 2002 until 2009, using phony medical certificates
to set up  disability pensions  for dozens of his Naples
constituents. They bought documents from Alaio and gave him a
cut of the benefits, according to Captain Federico Scarabello,
who led a police investigation of the scam.  
 Berlusconi has declared war on welfare swindlers as he
seeks to cut Italy’s budget  deficit  by about 25 billion euros.
Disability benefits from Italy’s INPS pension agency have risen
to 16 billion euros a year, or 1 percentage point of gross
domestic product, from 6 billion euros in 2001 when the
government gave local authorities more control over health care,
including the power to write checks. Fraudulent claims may be
costing the country more than 2 billion euros a year, based on a
government review in 2009.  
 “The fraud phenomenon has gotten out of control” as
Rome’s transfer of spending authority to local governments led
to a rash of scams, INPS President Antonio Mastrapasqua said in
a June 15 interview. “Something clearly went wrong.”  
 ‘No One Hurt’  
 Suspects in the Alaio case, who like Maria spoke on
condition of anonymity because they’re under house arrest, are
unrepentant. “No one got hurt,” said one man held in the case.  
 “The way they see it, he’s Robin Hood, he’s a hero,”
Scarabello said in an interview at police headquarters in
Naples. “You won’t find one of them who thinks he did anything
wrong.”  
 Alaio, who was arrested and convicted of fraud in 2009, is
in prison. His lawyer, Giuseppe Ricciulli, said his client is
innocent.  
 Berlusconi is trying to reassert central government control
over the disabilities system. Under new rules, INPS doctors will
visit each local health authority to verify disabilities, and
the requirements for making claims have been tightened.  
 Tracking down cheaters has the support of cash-strapped
taxpayers. With the administration’s popularity at the lowest
since it came to power in 2008, Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti 
said the government won’t “put its hands in the pockets” of
citizens. Instead, he vowed to slash public administration
salaries, hunt down tax dodgers and punish “fake invalids.”  
 Southern Regions  
 Most of the fraud is concentrated in Italy’s south, where
unemployment is  more than double  the 5.9 percent average in the
wealthier north. About 60 percent of disability payments and 80
percent of suspected fraudulent claims are in regions south of
Rome, including Campania, where Naples is located.  
 On the basis of 200,000 checks carried out last year, 15
percent of the country’s existing 833,000 disability pensions
have been revoked, Mastrapasqua said. An initial  clampdown 
revealed that almost 20,000 Italians unlawfully claimed benefits
in the first three months of this year, INPS said. The number of
people requesting disability aid fell by about 50 percent in the
first five months of 2010 from a year earlier. There were 2.5
million applicants in 2009.  
 By the end of 2012, 700,000 tests will be carried out on
Italy’s 2.7 million certified disabled people to determine how
many are entitled to state aid and disqualify fakers.  
 In Naples, police made almost 100 arrests in the Alaio
case, busting one “blind” man found reading a newspaper at a
post office and another driving a car. In a separate case,
Naples police detained 400 people for fraudulently collecting
schizophrenia benefits.  
 “We’ve barely scratched the surface,” said Scarabello,
the officer who led the Alaio investigation.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Rome or  fjackson@bloomberg.net 
 Flavia Rotondi  in Rome or  rotondi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Italy's Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi speak to the media following a news conference in Toronto. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
