-- Black New Orleans Homeowners Lose Ruling in Bid to Block Housing Program
-- William McQuillen
-- 2010-06-29T17:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/black-new-orleans-homeowners-lose-ruling-in-bid-to-block-housing-program.html

          
          
             A federal judge rejected a bid by
black New Orleans homeowners who aimed to stop the U.S.
government’s $11 billion housing program for those affected by
Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.  
 U.S. District Judge  Henry Kennedy  in Washington issued the
one-page order today after the homeowners, seeking to represent
more than 20,000 others, claimed the program was biased and
should be stopped until the formula to disburse grants was
recalculated.  
 “Without a temporary and preliminary injunction, the
plaintiffs will likely suffer irreparable harm by forever losing
their opportunity to obtain equitable relief,” lawyers for the
homeowners wrote in their June 2 motion.  
 “Road Home” grants are calculated using the lower of two
figures, the pre-storm value of the home or the damage cost,
both capped at $150,000, lawyers for the plaintiffs claimed.
That approach discriminates against blacks because their
dwellings’ values are usually lower than those for similar homes
in white areas, they claimed.  
 Katrina, hit southeast Louisiana on Aug. 29, 2005, and
after the Lake Pontchartrain levees failed, more than two-thirds
of New Orleans was flooded. Rita hit near the Texas-Louisiana
border on Sept. 24, 2005, and added to the city’s flooding. As a
result of the storms, 53,000 New Orleans homes were damaged or
destroyed. Katrina caused $81.2 billion in damage, the
homeowners claimed.  
 The case is Greater New Orleans Fair Housing Action Center
v. United States Department of Housing and Urban Development,
1:08-cv-1938, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        