-- BP, Transocean Told to Alert U.S. to Acts That Deplete Assets
-- Justin Blum
-- 2010-06-30T04:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/bp-transocean-told-to-alert-u-s-to-actions-that-cut-assets-after-spill.html

          
          
             The U.S. Justice Department asked  BP
Plc  and four other companies associated with the Gulf of Mexico
oil spill to give the government advance notice before depleting
assets that could cover judgments against them.  
 The letters, dated June 23 and provided yesterday to
Bloomberg News in response to a Freedom of Information Act
request, also went to  Transocean Ltd. ,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. ,
 Halliburton   Co.  and Moex USA Corp. The letters described
“significant” potential liability.  
 Each letter said the U.S. has a “compelling interest” to
ensure the companies don’t “deplete those assets that would be
available to satisfy a judgment” should they be sued by the
U.S. and ordered to pay damages. The Justice Department letter
to Transocean called the company’s $1 billion stock dividend
program “troubling.”  
 Attorney General  Eric Holder  has said the American people
won’t pay cleanup costs for the biggest U.S. oil spill and that
the government will hold responsible companies accountable. The
Justice Department is conducting civil and criminal
investigations into the spill.  
 The letters ask for 30 days notice of events including
disbursements, sales, restructuring and acquisitions. The
letters ask the companies to respond about whether they will
agree to the Justice Department’s requests.  
 Gushing Oil  
 London-based BP is the operator of the well pouring crude
oil into the Gulf of Mexico; Anadarko, based in The Woodlands,
Texas, owns 25 percent of the well. Transocean, based in Geneva,
owned the Deepwater Horizon rig that exploded in an April 20
accident that killed 11 workers and sent oil gushing.
Halliburton, based in Houston, provided drilling services.
 Mitsui & Co. , based in Tokyo, owns a majority stake in Moex,
which holds a 10 percent stake in the well.  
 The letter to Transocean said the government has learned
that the company plans to make cash disbursements that “could
deplete its ability to satisfy debts to the United States.” The
letter said the company approved a more than $3 billion stock
repurchase program and announced a $1 billion stock dividend
program.  
 “We find troubling the fact that Transocean approved this
dividend payment on May 14, 2010, after the events of April 20
and at a time when Transocean was surely aware of the potential
liability it faces,” according to the letter, signed by  Tony West , the assistant attorney general in charge of the
department’s civil division.  
 Monthly Statements  
 The letters asked BP and Transocean to provide monthly
financial statements, credit and loan agreements with banks and
analyses by investment bankers or others about the companies’
financial condition.  
 Guy Cantwell , a Transocean spokesman, declined to comment.
A voicemail message left with BP’s media department wasn’t
immediately returned. Halliburton spokeswoman Teresa Wong said
the company is evaluating the letter and had no additional
comment.  
 Michael W. Robinson , a senior vice president at Washington-
based Levick Strategic Communications LLC, which represents
Moex, said he wasn’t able to comment.  
 Also released yesterday in response to the Bloomberg News
request were letters telling Anadarko and  Hyundai Heavy
Industries Co. , based in Ulsan, South Korea, to preserve
information related to the spill. Hyundai Heavy built the
Deepwater Horizon rig. S.H. Jung, general manager in Hyundai
Heavy’s Houston office, declined to comment.  
 Other Letters  
 The department also released similar letters about
preserving information sent to BP, Halliburton and Transocean.
Bloomberg News previously reported that those letters had been
sent.  
 The May letters said the “knowing destruction of records
even in anticipation of a federal investigation could result in
obstruction of justice.”  
 BP officials, after a June 16 meeting at the White House
with President  Barack Obama , announced the company will deposit
$20 billion in an independently managed account to cover cleanup
costs and compensation claims.  
 BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  said after emerging from
the meeting that the company was canceling quarterly payments of
its $10-billion-a-year dividend for the rest of the year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Attorney General Eric Holder has said the American people won’t pay for cleanup costs and that the government will take the steps needed to ensure those responsible cover the costs. Photographer: Steve Pope/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
