-- Brazil Improves as It Gets Closer to Record-Extending Sixth World Cup
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-06-29T00:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/brazil-improves-as-it-gets-closer-to-record-extending-world-cup-victory.html

          
          
             Brazil coach  Carlos Dunga  said his
team is improving after last night’s 3-0 victory over Chile,
though it’s not quite ready to hoist a record-extending sixth
World Cup.  
 Dunga’s team will now take on the Netherlands in a
quarterfinal match in Port Elizabeth, South Africa. Goals from
Juan,  Luis Fabiano , and Robinho pushed the team past Chile.  
 After Fabiano’s goal put his team up 2-0, a fan danced the
side of the field with a five-foot (1.5-meter) inflatable
replica of the cup at Johannesburg’s Ellis Park stadium. The win
pushed Brazil to 12-5 at U.K. bookmaker William Hill, the best
odds the team has had so far. That means a successful $5 bet
brings in $12 plus the original stake.  
 “Given the quality of our players, there’s always the
expectation that Brazil will win,” Dunga, a World Cup winning
captain in 1994, told a news conference after the game. “Being
favorites doesn’t mean we’ll win, but we’re growing in
confidence game by game. We hope we’ll reach the final.”  
 The Selecao are trying to become the only team to have won
soccer’s biggest prize on every continent it’s been played.  
 Once Fabiano added to defender Juan’s 34th minute opener,
Chile was left to struggle with history: Brazil had never given
up a 2-0 lead in 33 previous World Cup matches. Robinho’s 59th
minute strike ended the Chileans’ fight, and gave Brazil 29
goals in eight straight victories over its South American rival.  
 “Brazil are my favorites, they’re too good,” former South
African national coach Jomo Sono, attending the game as FIFA’s
technical expert, said as the yellow-shirted Brazilians shared
high-fives on the field below him.  
 Knockout Match  
 “They’re very strong at the back and extremely good in
attack.”  
 Chile hadn’t won a World Cup knockout match since its
victory over the Soviet Union on home soil 48 years ago.  
 Chile’s Argentine coach  Marcelo Bielsa  promised to attack
in prematch comments, and fielded his usual three forwards. His
team looked dangerous early in the match, with Udinese forward
Alexis Sanchez pressuring the defenders with darting runs.  
 Brazil took advantage of Chile’s loss of its two regular
central defenders, Waldo Ponce and Gary Medel, to suspension.
Juan was left uncovered as he headed in Maicon’s corner after 34
minutes.  
 Brazil improved after that and Fabiano doubled the lead
four minutes later. The Sevilla striker got his third goal in
the tournament after racing onto Kaka’s pass before rounding
goalkeeper Claudio Bravo.  
 Makeshift Defense  
 Bielsa made two substitutions at halftime, but didn’t
improve his team’s fortunes. While its forwards couldn’t
penetrate, Chile’s makeshift defense was struggling to contain
the Brazilians, who swarmed towards Bravo’s goal.  
 With an hour played, Brazil’s Ramires moved through a
series of opponents and laid the ball into Robinho’s path. The
U.K.’s costliest player curled the ball around Bravo and into
the goal.  
 “In these World Cup games you have to attack and play open
football, and that’s what we did today,” Dunga said.  
 Humberto Suazo’s 77th minute shot, which bounced off the
turf and onto the top of the bar, was as close as Chile came.  
 “I don’t think it was as much of a one-sided game as the
result suggests,” Bielsa said. “We had chances, but we didn’t
have the punch to convert possession into danger.”  
 Dunga was able to withdraw Fabiano, Robinho and Kaka before
the end in the hope of keeping his key players fit for a repeat
of the 1998 semifinal with the Dutch, who extended their
unbeaten streak to 23 matches with a 2-1 victory over Slovakia
yesterday.  
 Brazil “need to improve in all areas” before that
meeting, Dunga said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at Ellis Park, Johannesburg via the London newsroom
at   tpanja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        