-- Bovespa Stock Index Retreats on Concern China Economic Recovery Will Slow
-- Alexander Cuadros
-- 2010-06-29T20:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/brazil-s-bovespa-stock-index-futures-fall-on-china-economic-growth-concern.html

          
          
             The  Bovespa  stock index dropped the
most since February on concern the global economic recovery will
falter after reports indicated growth is slowing in China and
the U.S., the two biggest buyers of Brazil’s exports.  
 Iron-ore producer  Vale SA  and state oil company  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA  tumbled as metals and crude prices dropped.  Fibria
Celulose SA , the world’s largest pulp producer, fell the most in
two months amid speculation weaker Chinese demand will impact
pulp prices.  Gafisa SA , Brazil’s second-biggest homebuilder by
revenue, slid more than 5 percent, leading real-estate declines.
Phone companies including  Vivo Participacoes SA  fell ahead of
tomorrow’s vote on an offer for control of the wireless carrier.  
 The  Bovespa  stock index lost 3.5 percent to 61,977.91, the
steepest decline since Feb. 4. Sixty-one stocks fell on the
index while four advanced. The real weakened 1.8 percent to
1.8116 per dollar.  
 “There seems to be a view that the world is going to a
double-dip recession,” said  Greg Lesko , who helps manage $800
million at Deltec Asset Management in New York. “People are
just nervous.”  
 Confidence among U.S. consumers declined more than forecast
in June as Americans became pessimistic about the outlook for
the labor market and the economy.  
 China Retreat  
 The Conference Board’s confidence index slumped to 52.9
this month from a revised 62.7 in May, figures from the New
York-based private research group showed today. The median
forecast called for a drop to 62.5, and the gauge was lower than
all projections in a Bloomberg News survey of 71 economists.  
 The Conference Board also today revised its leading
economic index for China to show the smallest gain in five
months in April, in a release that contributed to the biggest
sell-off in Chinese stocks in more than a month.  
 The gauge of the economy’s outlook compiled by the group
rose 0.3 percent, less than the 1.7 percent gain it reported
June 15. The Conference Board said in an e-mailed statement that
the previous reading contained a calculation error for floor
space on which construction began.  
 Cia. de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo , Brazil’s
biggest water utility, reached the highest price since October.
The company known as Sabesp rose 1.3 percent to 37.11 reais as
investors sought to insulate themselves from global risks by
buying a company tied to Brazilian domestic growth.  
 ‘Defensive Names’  
 “Investors rotate to more defensive names” during market
volatility such as today’s, according to Lesko.  
 Vale dropped 4.8 percent, the most since May 4, to 39.03
reais. Petrobras fell 2.2 percent to a one-month low of 26.83
reais. Fibria slid 5.5 percent, the steepest decline since April
27, to 27.39 reais. Gafisa tumbled 5.9 percent to 10.80 reais,
helping push the  BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index  down 4.5 percent.  
 Portugal Telecom SGPS SA shareholders vote tomorrow on a
6.5 billion-euro ($8 billion) offer by Telefonica SA for its
stake in their joint venture controlling Vivo. Vivo lost 2
percent to 47.30 reais.  
 The Bovespa index  trades  for 12.4 times analysts’ 2010
earnings estimates, compared with 11.4 times for the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index  of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 15.6
times for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 13.9 times the reported
profits of its companies after fetching 25.5 times in November,
the most in almost six years, weekly data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        