-- British Airways, Iberia Move Closer to Merger After Signing Legal Document
-- Chris Jasper
-- 2010-06-29T18:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/british-airways-iberia-move-closer-to-merger-after-signing-legal-document.html

          
          
             British Airways Plc  and  Iberia
Lineas Aereas de Espana SA  moved a step closer to a $6.2 billion
combination after signing the merger-plan document required to
implement the transaction under Spanish law.  
 The  document  details how a new Spanish company, BA Holdco
SA, will be created above British Airways and how Iberia will
transfer its assets to an operating subsidiary before both are
merged into the International Consolidated Airlines Group SA
holding company, the U.K. carrier said in a statement today.  
 The merger, which is being implemented under Spanish law,
remains dependent on the granting of shareholder approval at
meetings to be held in November, with completion expected about
a month later, British Airways said.  Investors  will receive
shares of IAG, which will become the owner of both airlines.  
 British Airways and Iberia agreed to combine on Nov. 12
after more than a year of talks in an effort to expand their
networks and narrow the gap with European rivals Air France-KLM
Group and Deutsche Lufthansa AG. Today’s statement confirms that
 Willie Walsh , the U.K. carrier’s chief executive, will run the
combined company, with Iberia’s  Antonio Vazquez  as chairman.  
 Completion of the merger also requires European Commission
approval, the backing of U.K. regulators for a plan to cut the
3.7 billion-pound ($5.6 billion) pension deficit at British
Airways and approval of that plan by Iberia before September 30.  
 Savings Switch  
 According to today’s filing the holding company’s cost-
synergies officer will be  Ignacio de Torres , Iberia’s finance
director, rather than José  Maria Fariza , its current purchasing
director, who the November statement said would occupy the role.  
 An Iberia spokesman said today that Torres had already
appeared in the post at a British Airways investor briefing.  
 The enlarged company’s revenue-synergies officer will be
 Robert Boyle , currently director of strategy and business units
at British Airways, as previously announced.  
 British Airways spokesman  Richard Goodfellow  said
separately that the airline is examining points raised in a
fresh strike ballot that the Unite union plans to hold to
ascertain whether they are old, a condition that would render
the vote illegal according to U.K. labor laws  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Jasper  in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        