-- British Banks Approved Fewer Mortgages Than Forecast in May
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-06-29T08:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/british-banks-approved-fewer-mortgages-than-forecast-in-may.html

          
          
             U.K. banks approved fewer mortgages
than economists forecast in May, a sign the nation’s housing-
market recovery is losing steam.  
 Lenders granted 49,815 loans to buy homes, compared with
49,828 in April, the Bank of England said today in London. The
median forecast of 17 economists in Bloomberg News survey was
for an increase to 51,000.  
 U.K. house prices rose the least in five months in June as
the prospect of a national budget squeeze curbed demand and the
supply of homes for sale increased, Hometrack Ltd. said
yesterday. While mortgage approvals have stabilized, they are
still at about half the level they were at the peak of the
housing boom in 2007.  
 “We’ve had a very gentle creep back up, but from a
historical context they’re about 45 percent below the long term
average,”  Philip Shaw , chief economist at Investec Securities
in London, said before the announcement. “On balance there will
be a greater flow of credit through the housing market.”  
 Net mortgage lending was 1.2 billion pounds ($1.8 billion)
in May, compared with 979 million pounds the previous month, the
Bank of England said. Gross home loans totaled 12.3 billion
pounds, the most since December.  
 Hometrack said that values in June rose 0.1 percent from
May as demand slowed and supply increased. The average cost of a
home reached 158,900 pounds in June, the highest since December
2008, according to the London-based research group. It said
higher interest rates pose “the greatest potential threat” to
the housing market.  
 Rate Vote  
 Bank of England policy maker  Andrew Sentance  voted for an
interest-rate increase at the central bank’s June 10 meeting,
marking the first push for a rise within the policy committee in
almost two years. The seven other members voted for no change.  
 Today’s report showed consumers added to their unsecured
debts in May, increasing personal loans and overdrafts by 193
million pounds, the most since 2008. Credit card lending climbed
by 138 million pounds.  
 A measure of M4 money supply that the bank uses to assess
the effectiveness of its asset purchases rose 9.2 percent in the
three months through May on an annualized basis, the most since
the series began in September. The gauge excludes financial
companies that specialize in intermediating between banks, such
as holding companies and non-bank credit grantors.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        