-- Britons Fail to Save Enough for Old Age After Crisis, Scottish Widows Says
-- Peter Woodifield
-- 2010-06-29T11:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/britons-fail-to-save-enough-for-old-age-after-crisis-scottish-widows-says.html

          
          
             The number of Britons saving enough
for their retirement has fallen to its lowest level since 2006
after the recession crimped retirement provisions, according to
Scottish Widows.  
 The proportion of people putting enough money aside to
finance their old age has fallen to 48 percent from 54 percent
last year, Edinburgh-based Scottish Widows, the pensions and
insurance unit of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc , said in an e-mailed
statement today. One in five people who should be contributing
to a pension are not preparing for retirement at all.  
 “The last two years have been tough on the economy, and we
are finally seeing the effects trickling through to pensions
savings,”  Ian Naismith , head of pensions market development at
Scottish Widows, said in the statement. “Now we are seeing the
full impact of the downturn on people’s retirement pots.”  
 U.K. companies are saving money by putting more
responsibility on employees to ensure they have adequate income
once they stop working by closing plans that pay benefits based
on length of service and leaving salary.  
 About one in five people saved less for old age in the past
12 months than previously as a result of the recession, with
almost the same proportion saying retirement is now less of a
priority.  
 Men are saving more than women and government and municipal
employees are more likely to be making sufficient provisions for
their retirement than people working for companies, Scottish
Widows said.  
 “The last two years have been hard on everyone who is
trying to save for their future,” Naismith said. “The whole
nation is feeling worse off than a year ago and this is really
starting to take its toll on pensions savings.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        