-- Romania Political Furor to Ease, Buy Leu on Record Weakness, SocGen Says
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-06-29T09:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/buy-leu-versus-euro-as-romania-s-political-turmoil-to-abate-socgen-says.html

          
          
             Investors should buy the leu on
speculation it will recover from a record low as political
turmoil in Romania abates, clearing the way for austerity
measures and international funding, Societe Generale said.  
 The French bank recommends buying the leu in anticipation
that it will strengthen to 4.2 per euro,  Gaelle Blanchard  and
 Esther Law , London-based strategists, wrote in a research note
today. The currency slid to a record low of 4.3905 per euro
today before advancing 0.4 percent to 4.3504 as of 12:32 p.m. in
Bucharest. It depreciated 0.4 percent versus the dollar to the
lowest since Romania ended communism in 1989.  
 The International Monetary Fund postponed a board meeting
to discuss Romania’s loan program after the Constitutional Court
on June 25 threw out the administration’s plan to cut pensions
by 15 percent to align itself with IMF-mandated deficit cuts.
Romania said on June 26 it would raise value added tax to plug
the gap. Opposition leader Victor  Ponta  said yesterday he will
file a motion of no confidence in the government when he has the
signatures of 236 legislators.  
 “As the government survived a confidence vote two weeks
ago, it is unlikely to fall now on the same issue of deficit
reduction,” Societe Generale wrote. “As we had been expecting,
the road to reform is a bumpy one and there will probably be
more difficult times ahead, but there is no real alternative to
the IMF program.”  
 ‘Very Attractive’  
 The leu’s exchange rate is “very attractive,” according
to Societe Generale. Risks of losing on the recommended
transaction are limited by the likelihood that the central bank
will intervene in the foreign-exchange market to limit further
losses for the leu, the note said.  
 Romania has “no liquidity problems” and can repay its
debt because it has a “buffer,” Finance Minister  Sebastian Vladescu  told reporters today in Bucharest. The country will not
ask the IMF for a new budget-gap target, he said.  
 The BET Index of stocks dropped 3 percent to 4,673.93, the
fifth-largest decline of 93 equity gauges worldwide, bringing
its loss this quarter to 22 percent.  
 The European Union’s second-poorest member is relying on a
20 billion-euro ($24.6 billion) IMF-led loan to support its
economy and must reach a fund-mandated deficit limit to get
further payments. The next installment would be 850 million
euros, with 1.2 billion euros scheduled to come from the EU.  
 ‘Much Better’  
 Prime Minister  Emil Boc  survived a no-confidence vote this
month by eight votes after opposition parties opposed his plan
to reduce the wages of public employees by 25 percent and
pensions and jobless benefits by 15 percent.  
 A Finance Ministry report yesterday that the budget deficit
for the first five months of this year was 3.1 percent of gross
domestic product indicates the IMF-endorsed target of a 6.8
percent shortfall for the year is still attainable, Credit
Agricole Cheuvreux SA wrote in an e-mail to clients.  
 “External debt metrics are now looking much better,
allowing authorities to react on the foreign-exchange market,
and the opposition already tried a no-confidence vote recently,
and failed,” Vienna-based Cheuvreux analyst  Simon Quijano-Evans 
wrote. Members of parliament “are not likely to want to give up
their post only six months after being elected,” he wrote.  
 Commerzbank  
 Boc said yesterday the IMF will review Romania’s program on
June 30, and he wants the VAT increase implemented as of July 1.  
 Commerzbank AG said the government’s decision to increase
the VAT would exacerbate the country’s recession and push
inflation higher, and that the deficit target was unlikely to be
achieved. The German bank reduced its 2010 economic growth
forecast to 0.3 percent from 1 percent.  
 “The political uncertainty is likely to lead to increased
leu volatility over the coming weeks,” foreign-currency
strategists led by  Ulrich Leuchtmann  in Frankfurt wrote in a
note to clients dated yesterday. “Should the opposition really
manage to topple the Boc government the saving plans would of
course be brought into disarray.” That would move the support
of the IMF “into the distant future again,” the strategists
wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        