-- California Schools Facing `Financial Disaster' Rises 38 Percent to Record
-- Christopher Palmeri
-- 2010-06-29T20:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/california-schools-on-watch-for-financial-disaster-increases-to-record.html

          
          
             A record number of  California 
schools are in financial distress and may not meet their
commitments over the next two years due to the recession and
state budget cuts, according to the California  Department of
Education .  
 The number of school districts on a semi-annual “fiscal
early warning”  list  issued by the department has jumped 38
percent to 174 districts since January, or 16 percent of the
state’s 1,077 local education agencies.  
 “These reports give us an early warning signal that a
district may be heading to financial disaster if they don’t make
adjustments,”  Jack O’Connell , California’s superintendent of
public instruction, said in a  statement  today. “The financial
outlook for our schools is bleak.”  
 Schools have received $17 billion less than they
anticipated from the most-populous U.S. state over the past two
years, according to the department. Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  has proposed a 2 percent cut to $35.1 billion for
children in kindergarten through high school, according to his
May budget revision for the fiscal year that begins July 1.  
 California Senate President  Darrell Steinberg , a Democrat
from Sacramento, said the funding troubles were due to state
laws that require a two-thirds vote to raise taxes or pass a
budget.  
 “The cuts have got to stop,” Steinberg said at a press
conference. “The state ought to be about education.”  
 20,000 Teachers  
 California school districts have eliminated summer school,
school nurses, librarians and notified 20,000 teachers they may
lose their jobs, O’Connell said. Funds from the federal economic
stimulus, intended to help schools through the recession, will
begin to expire over the next year, according to Frank Pugh,
president of the  California School Boards Association .  
 “Cuts of this magnitude are like nothing I’ve ever seen,”
Pugh said at O’Connell’s press conference. “If this is a trend,
then the state has a major problem.”  
 Local school districts that aren’t able to make budget cuts
or find additional revenue over the next two years, they may be
forced to appeal to the state for a takeover, O’Connell said.
Six districts have done that over the past seven years.  
 “It’s a very difficult process,” O’Connell said. “The
school board loses all of its power. It’s not a panacea. It’s
just to make sure you can meet that financial obligation.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        