-- Canada's Flaherty Names Desmarais, Rogers as Advisory Council Members
-- Theophilos Argitis
-- 2010-06-29T20:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/canada-s-flaherty-names-desmarais-rogers-as-advisory-council-members.html

          
          
             Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  today bolstered the presence of the financial industry
on his council of economic advisers, adding  Peter Brown  of
Canaccord Financial Inc. to the group.  
 Brown, the chairman and founder of Canada’s largest
independent brokerage, and  Duncan Jackman , chief executive of E-
L Financial Corporation Ltd., an investment holding company,
will join the 11-member Economic Advisory Council, according to
a finance department statement. Rogers Communications Inc.
Deputy Chairman  Edward Rogers  will also become a member.  
 The council was formed in December, 2008 to advise Flaherty
on his 2009 budget as the country entered its first recession in
almost two decades. The group, which will have four returning
members, now will advise the government on how to sustain the
recovery and balance the budget, Flaherty said.  
 “While Canada’s economy is showing encouraging growth, the
global economic recovery remains fragile,” said Flaherty in  a
statement . “We are bringing together some of Canada’s most
talented business and economic innovators to help us continue to
make economic progress and return to budget balance.”  
 Brown and Jackman join  George Gosbee , the former head of
Calgary-based Tristone Capital Inc., on the council. Gosbee,
Power Corp. Co-Chief Executive  Paul Desmarais Jr .,  Jim Pattison ,
Canada’s fourth-richest person according to Canadian Business
magazine, and  Jack Mintz  of the University of Calgary are the
four returning members.  
 Unrepresentative  
 Former Quebec Finance Minister  Monique Jerome-Forget  will
also be a member of the council, which will be chaired by former
Saskatchewan Finance Minister  Janice MacKinnon .  
 Gone from the previous council are  Mike Lazaridis ,
president of Research in Motion Ltd., and  James Irving ,
president of J.D. Irving, Ltd.  
 The Canadian Labour Congress, the country’s largest union
group, criticized the make-up of the advisory council two years
ago, claiming at the time it was unrepresentative.  Thomas Mulcair , deputy leader of Canada’s opposition New Democratic
Party, said there should be more “alternate voices” in the
council.  
 “I don’t have anything against people making money, but
the simple fact of the matter is the world view of somebody who
doesn’t have to worry about whether he has a job tomorrow
morning is a lot different from the world view of somebody who
has spent 12 of the last 36 months on unemployment,” Mulcair
said.  
 The members will be paid a nominal salary of C$1 (95 U.S.
cents) for their work and will meet “periodically,” the
statement said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        