-- Canadian Raw-Material Costs Tumble in May While Factory Output Prices Rise
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-06-29T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/canadian-raw-material-costs-tumble-in-may-while-factory-output-prices-rise.html

          
          
             Canadian raw-material costs for
factories tumbled in May, led by a decline in crude oil, while
the prices of the goods manufacturers produced rose, government
figures showed.  
 The  raw-materials price  index fell 7.2 percent, the first
drop in five months and the biggest since December 2008, as oil
prices declined 14 percent, Statistics Canada said today in
Ottawa. The index was expected to fall 1 percent, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 11 economists.  
 The  industrial product price index  rose after the Canadian
currency fell 3.4 percent from the previous month, which
increased the amount producers received for goods sold abroad,
Statistics Canada said today. Automobiles and other
transportation equipment rose 2.3 percent, the largest gain
since October 2008, the report said. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 12 economists was for a rise of 0.1 percent.  
 The figures suggest that factory profits improved in May
after a rebound in production following the country’s recession
last year. Manufacturing shipments increased in eight of the
past 10 months through April, the government agency reported
June 15.  
 The industrial product index was supported by a 3.4 percent
decline in the Canadian currency during May, the agency said,
adding that if the exchange rate had remained constant, the
index would have dropped 0.6 percent. Pulp and paper products
prices gained 2.7 percent, the most since October 2008, the
agency also said.  
 Raw material costs rose 6.4 percent in May from a year
earlier, Statistics Canada said. Industrial prices rose 1.4
percent from last May, the first yearly gain since February
2009.  
 The agency revised its estimate of April’s raw-materials
price increase to 1.6 percent from the originally reported 1.7
percent. The estimate for April’s industrial product price index
gain was boosted to 0.4 percent from 0.3 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        