-- Canada Dollar Falls to Three-Week Low Amid Sovereign Debt, Growth Concern
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-06-29T20:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/canada-dollar-touches-three-week-low-as-risk-aversion-hits-stock-markets.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar slid to the lowest
level in three weeks as concern over Europe’s fiscal woes and
signs of a global slowdown drove investors away from higher-
yielding assets like stocks and commodities.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell to an eight-month low
after a gauge of U.S. consumer confidence trailed economists’
estimates. Commodities fell, led by declines in copper and other
industrial metals, on concern that growth in China, the world’s
largest consumer of all industrial metals, will slow.  
 “We have seen rapid risk aversion entering the market
driven by the weaker economic data out of the U.S. and China,
with commodity currencies taking the brunt of the damage,” said
Darren Richardson, senior corporate dealer in Toronto at
CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer. “We are
still within a safe trading range, but if we get to C$1.07 or
C$1.08 than it might be time to worry.”  
 The Canadian currency fell as much as 2.1 percent to
C$1.0575 per U.S. dollar, the weakest level since June 8, before
trading at C$1.0572 at 4:18 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0358
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys 94.59 U.S. cents.  
 Canada’s currency is down 3.9 percent since March 31,
poised for the first quarterly decline in more than a year.  
 ‘So Much Uncertainty’  
 Copper, nickel and zinc slumped as the Shanghai Composite
Index tumbled 4.3 percent after the Conference Board’s leading
economic index for China, which last year overtook Germany as
the world’s biggest exporter, rose 0.3 percent in April, less
than the 1.7 percent reported June 15.  
 Crude oil, the nation’s largest export, declined as much as
3.9 percent. The S&P 500 sank 3.1 percent to 1,041.24, the
lowest closing level since Oct. 30. Canada’s dollar tends to
rise and fall with stocks and commodity prices as a barometer
for risk appetite.  
 The health of Europe’s banks may be revealed tomorrow when
the European Central Bank offers them three-month loans before a
landmark 12-month facility has to be paid back.  
 European banks on July 1 need to repay 442 billion euros
($540 billion), the biggest amount ever awarded by the ECB and a
key plank in its efforts to fight the financial crisis last
year. Demand for three-month cash tomorrow will expose how much
banks still rely on the ECB for funding, investors and
economists said.  
 “There’s so much uncertainty now with the sovereign-debt
crisis,”  Aaron Fennell , a futures and currency broker at Lind-
Waldock, a unit of MF Global Canada, said by phone from Toronto.
“It’s like there’s this time bomb sitting in the economy and
you don’t know when it’s going to go off.” Fennell is buying
Canadian dollars on dips, and predicts it will trade between 93
and 98 U.S. cents.  
 ‘Pure Risk-Off’  
 The Conference Board’s confidence index for the U.S.
slumped to 52.9 this month from a revised 62.7 in May, figures
from the New York-based private research group showed today. The
median forecast called for a decline to 62.5, and the gauge was
lower than all projections in a Bloomberg news survey.  
 The drop in the Canadian dollar is “a pure risk-off
move,” Adam Cole, head of global currency strategy at Royal
Bank of Canada, the nation’s biggest lender, said by phone from
London. “It’s not been a particularly violent move. It’s just
been grinding lower.”  
 Canada’s benchmark two-year bond gained for a sixth day,
the longest streak since May 6. The  yield  dropped 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 1.38 percent. The price of
the 1.5 percent security due in June 2012 gained 22 cents to
C$100.22.  
 World’s Soundest  
 The loonie has gained 7.2 percent this year according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indices, the third-best
performance among its 10 developed-world counterparts as
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis burnished the allure of
currencies backed by relatively strong balance sheets.  
 Canada, the last member of the Group of Seven
industrialized nations to enter the global recession, was the
first to recover, thanks partly to having the Group of Seven’s
lowest debt-to-GDP ratio and the world’s soundest financial
system, according to the World Economic Forum.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        