-- Canon Sues Chinese Firms to Block Copycat Cartridge Refills
-- Susan Decker
-- 2010-06-29T21:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/canon-sues-chinese-companies-to-block-copycat-toner-cartridge-refills.html

          
          
             Canon Inc. , the world’s largest
maker of cameras and office equipment, filed patent-infringement
claims against China’s  Ninestar Image International Ltd . and
retailers over technology in printer toner cartridges.  
 The claims target cartridges made by Ninestar and nine
affiliated businesses in China and Hong Kong, as well as 10 U.S.
companies that sell the products. Canon lodged a  complaint 
yesterday with the U.S. International Trade Commission in
Washington to block imports of the cartridges and filed a
companion civil lawsuit in federal court in New York.  
 Canon, a Tokyo-based company that gets about 28 percent of
its revenue from the Americas, contends the Ninestar cartridges
infringe two U.S. patents. The cartridges can be used in Canon
and Hewlett-Packard Co. printers, according to the ITC complaint
and the lawsuit.  
 The patents relate to the rotating drums inside the
cartridges and how they connect to the printer. Laser beams scan
across the drum in a pattern matching the image to be printed
and powdery toner sticks to the device before being deposited on
the paper, according to the complaint.  
 Canon said it opened a manufacturing plant last year near
Newport News, Virginia, where it plans to produce “millions”
of cartridges. The ITC is a quasi-independent agency set up to
protect U.S. markets from unfair trade practices, including
patent infringement.  
 Cannon in December  settled  complaints against companies in
Japan, including Ninestar’s Japanese unit, over unauthorized
inkjet cartridges. Officials with Ninestar didn’t immediately
return an e-mail sent to their U.S. distribution center in City
of Industry, California, seeking comment.  
 The ITC case is In the Matter of Toner Cartridges and
Components Thereof, Complaint No. 2743, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington). The civil suit is Canon Inc. v.
Ninestar Image International Ltd., 10cv4999, U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        