-- CapitaLand May Expand Raffles City Brand in China by Renaming Developments
-- Prashant Gopal
-- 2010-06-29T16:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/capitaland-may-expand-raffles-city-in-shanghai-tianjin-with-new-projects.html

          
          
             CapitaLand Ltd. , Southeast Asia’s
biggest developer, may expand its  Raffles City brand  in China by
renaming two developments it acquired this year in Shanghai and
the port city of Tianjin.  
 “If we can make some adjustments, we can rename them as
Raffles City because they are very well located,”  Lim Ming Yan ,
deputy chairman of the Singapore-based company’s China executive
committee and chief executive officer of its Ascott Ltd. unit,
said in an interview in New York on June 28.  
 A CapitaLand-led fund has already invested S$3 billion
($2.1 billion) in five Raffles City projects in China, and a
sixth is in development in Shenzhen, just across the border from
Hong Kong, Lim said. The company may have as many as 10 of the
office and retail integrated developments globally, he said.  
 The Shanghai and Tianjin projects being evaluated by
CapitaLand were acquired in January as part of the $2.2 billion
purchase of the property assets of Orient Overseas
(International) Ltd., which doubled the company’s holdings in
China. CapitaLand aims to expand the China business to as much
as 45 percent of its total operations in the next three to five
years from the current 36 percent, Lim said.  
 Asian economies have rebounded from last year’s slump,
boosting demand for property in CapitaLand’s markets ranging
from China to Singapore. The company is also focusing on growth
in Vietnam, where it aims to increase assets to about 10 percent
of its total from the current 1.5 percent.  
 Office, Retail Space  
 China’s retail and residential properties remain the top
desired investments for the three years ending in 2012,
according to a survey of 75 investors and fund managers this
year by Hong Kong-based Anrev, a not-for-profit organization.  
 The Raffles City projects include serviced apartments,
office and retail space, and are generally about 200,000 square
meters (2.15 million square feet), Lim said. Properties in China
under the brand are open in Shanghai and Beijing, and are in
development in Chengdu, Hangzhou and Ningbo, according to
CapitaLand’s website. The company announced plans for one in
Shenzhen last month.  
 CapitaLand’s share in the five Raffles City investments in
China is about 45 percent, Chief Financial Officer  Olivier Lim 
said in the interview. The Shenzhen project is unit of
CapitaLand China.  
 Hottest Market  
 China overtook Hong Kong as the world’s hottest housing
market in the first quarter, with prices rising at more than
double the rate of anywhere else, property adviser Knight Frank
LLP said June 17.  
 The country’s economy expanded 11.9 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest pace in almost three years, boosted by
Premier Wen Jiabao’s $586 billion stimulus package. The World
Bank, in an economic outlook published June 9, forecast 9.5
percent growth in the economy for the year.  
 CapitaLand raised S$2.8 billion in November by selling
shares in  CapitaMalls Asia Ltd. , making it Singapore’s biggest
initial public offering since 1993. The company also sold S$1.1
billion of seven-year convertible bonds in July 2009 to
refinance  maturing debt  and help fund new investments.  
 CapitaLand has dropped 13 percent in Singapore trading this
year, compared with a 2.3 percent decline in the benchmark
Straits Times Index.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Prashant Gopal  in New York at 
 Pgopal2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        