-- Chilean Peso Declines to Three-Week Low as Copper Weakens on China Concern
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-06-29T15:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/chilean-peso-declines-to-three-week-low-as-copper-weakens-on-china-concern.html

          
          
             Chile’s peso fell to the lowest
level in three weeks as the price of copper, the country’s
biggest export, plunged on concern that economic growth in
China, the largest buyer of the metal, may be slowing.  
 The peso lost 1 percent to 542.25 per U.S. dollar at 11:17
a.m. New York time from 537.25 on the previous trading day.
Chilean bonds and interest-rate swap rates fell as U.S. Treasury
yields dropped to a record low.  
 Stocks worldwide declined,  commodities  sank for a second
day and emerging-market currencies declined as investors shed
riskier assets. The Conference Board, a New York-based research
group, revised its leading economic index for China to show the
smallest gain for five months in April.  
 “Data on China is driving a strong decline in the price of
copper, which weakens Chile’s terms of trade,” said  Cristobal Doberti , an economist at Bice Inversiones in Santiago. “There’s
also a flight to quality that is pushing up the dollar.”  
 Copper for September delivery fell 4.4 percent to $2.9525
per pound in New York. The metal lost 0.6 percent yesterday when
Chilean markets were closed yesterday for a national holiday.  
 Chile’s six-month interest-rate swap rate in pesos dropped
four basis points, matching the steepest decline in three weeks,
to 2.14 percent, according to Bloomberg prices.  
 The yield on a basket of inflation-linked central bank
bonds due in five years fell two basis points to 2.50 percent.
The yield on a similar basket of bonds due in 10 years lost five
basis points to 2.93 percent.  
 “The short-end is falling because we’re seeing an outbreak
of risk aversion based on an eventual deceleration of China,”
said  Jorge Selaive , chief economist at BCI Corredor de Bolsa in
Santiago. “There’s a correlation between U.S. Treasuries and
local rates.”  
 To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        