-- Chinese Yuan Is Sideshow to Looming Wage Inflation: Andy Xie
-- Andy Xie
-- 2010-06-29T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/chinese-yuan-is-sideshow-to-looming-wage-inflation-commentary-by-andy-xie.html

          
          
             We waited for ages for China to move
on the yuan. When it did, the dollar-yuan rate zigzagged and
ended pretty much where it began. The few tiny morsels were
barely enough to whet your appetite.  
 The announcement of a de-pegging has achieved some benefits
for China. The U.S. Congress has cooled off a bit, though we
don’t know how long it will last. The “yuan free lunch”
expectation has revived the weak Shanghai and Hong Kong stock
market, providing the courage to stage the initial public
offering of Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. Only China can do
such a large IPO in a difficult market.  
 I’m not suggesting the de-pegging announcement is all hot
air. The yuan will appreciate somewhat in the next 12 months,
just not by much, probably less than 5 percent. The Australian
dollar could move by that much in a week.  
 While we have been talking about yuan appreciation for the
past five years, the currency has already strengthened in real
terms through inflation. Real-estate prices have tripled in this
business cycle. As property makes up a third of living costs on
average, this alone means the real yuan value has doubled.
Unlike five years ago, the yuan is no longer undervalued.  
 Trade Imbalances  
 It’s a puzzle that Americans are so worked up about China’s
currency. Is it really good for the U.S. if China’s currency
strengthens a lot? U.S. politicians think that Chinese will buy
more American goods on a rising yuan to balance bilateral trade.
But they don’t pay attention to the possibility that Americans
would pay more for Chinese goods. It is possible and likely that
a stronger yuan will increase the U.S.’s  trade deficit  with
China for an extended period, possibly five years.  
 While the yuan may not appreciate much, China’s factory
wages will rise a lot. Americans will pay more for Chinese goods
anyway. When the supply of labor is endless, as in China over
the past 20 years, productivity goes to consumers, investors or
tax collectors, but never workers. This is why China has had a
rapidly growing economy, but stagnant wages.  
 When the labor market moves toward full employment, wages
will rise faster than the overall economy to catch up with
productivity gains. Chinese labor incomes as a share of gross
domestic product may rise by more than 10 percentage points in a
decade.  
 Rising Wages  
 When wages rise faster than productivity, it means
inflation. It is a necessary byproduct of China’s transition to
full employment. Wages will probably quadruple and nominal GDP
will triple over the next decade. Half of the latter would be
from real growth, the other half inflation. China’s export
prices may double, too.  
 In the past decade, China has had double-digit growth
rates, high and rapidly rising property prices, low wages, low
inflation, and low interest rates. The next decade may be the
opposite: a growth rate of about 6 percent to 8 percent,
inflation of as much as 10 percent, and wages rising at 15
percent. Interest rates would have to increase a lot to
stabilize inflation, which would bring down property prices, at
least during the transition.  
 China is still reluctant to raise interest rates to cool
inflation. The yuan appreciation expectation is keeping
liquidity strong, which gives the government room to raise or
not raise borrowing costs. Normally, a developing economy facing
a similar situation would lead to the expectation of currency
depreciation, as the market shows concern about competitiveness.
That would lead to a liquidity outflow that forces interest
rates up. Somehow China always has more flexibility. Its size
makes many believe that it is different.  
 Sustained inflation will put depreciation pressure on the
yuan over the next two years. I suspect the same people who talk
about yuan appreciation now will say the opposite in 2012. Let
me make an early prediction: China will hold the exchange rate
and drain some foreign-exchange reserves. It will carry out a
round of structural reforms to improve competitiveness and
demand, just as it did in 1998.  
 The yuan’s exchange rate is no cure-all for global
imbalances. Its movements in the coming months will just be a
sideshow to the wage inflation that looms.  
 ( Andy Xie  is an independent economist based in Shanghai and
was formerly Morgan Stanley’s chief economist for the Asia-
Pacific region. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Andy Xie  at  andyxie88@yahoo.com.hk   
          
          


  


        