-- China Stocks Drop Signals 65% Rally to Morgan Stanley
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-30T08:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/china-sinking-like-greece-signals-65-rally-in-stocks-to-morgan-stanley.html

          
          
               China , the worst-performing stock
market after  Greece , looks like a buy by almost any measure,
according to top-ranked analysts of the Asian nation’s shares.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index’s 27 percent plunge this year,
including yesterday’s 4.3 percent slump, sent its price-earnings
ratio to 18, the lowest level versus the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index in a decade. The largest owners of yuan-denominated stocks
have turned net buyers for the first time since equities
bottomed in 2008, while international investors are paying the
biggest premium in 21 months to bet on a rally in funds that
hold China’s yuan-denominated or A shares, data compiled by  Macquarie Group Ltd . and Bloomberg show.  
   Morgan Stanley ,  BNP Paribas  SA and  Nomura Holdings Inc . say
stocks will rally as China’s June 19 decision to end the yuan’s
two-year peg to the dollar helps curb inflation and asset
bubbles. The Shanghai index rose 62 percent in 12 months after
China last allowed a more flexible  exchange rate  in July 2005.  
 “We are very bullish,” said Jerry Lou, the Hong Kong-
based strategist at Morgan Stanley, among the top-ranked
analysts for China stocks by Institutional Investor, who
predicts the Shanghai Composite may climb 65 percent to 4,000 by
June 2011. “We like valuations and inflation will peak. All we
need is a catalyst such as a change in yuan policy.”  
 Prospects for a stock rebound may be cut as China’s exports
face “strong headwinds” in the second half and loan growth may
slow by the end of 2010,  Citigroup Inc . said this week, even as
the average of 14 economist estimates in a Bloomberg survey
calls for economic growth of 10.2 percent this year and 9.2
percent in 2011.  
 Revision  
 The Conference Board yesterday revised its leading economic
index for China, contributing to the biggest sell-off in Chinese
equities in six weeks.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd ., which
priced the Shanghai portion of its $20.1 billion initial share
sale, also drove banking stocks lower.  
 The Shanghai Composite fell for a sixth day today, losing
1.2 percent to 2,398.37 at the close. Its slump this year is
second only to the 35 percent plunge in Greece’s ASE Index among
the world’s 60 biggest stock markets, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Companies on the  Shanghai  gauge will increase
earnings by 40 percent in 12 months, more than double the pace
of the ASE, analysts’ estimates by Bloomberg show.  
 Rising profits reduced the Shanghai Composite’s valuation
premium over the MSCI emerging index to 26 percent, down from an
average of 140 percent since 1997, based on weekly price-
earnings ratios compiled by Bloomberg. The last time the gap was
so small in February 2000, the Shanghai Composite gained 27
percent in 12 months, while the MSCI measure sank 26 percent.  
 Lower Valuations  
 Lower valuations spurred the biggest Chinese investors to
buy last month. Shareholders who own at least 5 percent of a
company’s stock boosted their holdings by 1.1 billion yuan ($162
million), according to Macquarie analysts  Michael Kurtz  and
Shirley Zhao in Shanghai, basing their analysis on data from
Wind Information. Similar purchases in October 2008 signaled the
end of the Shanghai Composite’s year-long bear market, with the
gauge rallying 82 percent from its low on Oct. 28, 2008, through
October 2009.  
 Yuan-denominated shares, restricted almost exclusively to
local investors, fell below Chinese stocks traded in Hong Kong
this month for the first time in almost four years, according to
the Hang Seng China AH Premium Index. When A shares last traded
at a discount in November 2006, the Shanghai Composite tripled
in 12 months, outpacing a 156 percent gain in the  Hong Kong 
benchmark index and a 58 percent rise in the MSCI gauge.  
 ‘Pay for Exposure’  
 “The premium between A and H shares is disappearing,”
said Hao Hong, Beijing-based global equity strategist at China
International Capital Corp., the top-ranked brokerage for China
research in Asiamoney’s annual survey. That indicates “foreign
investors are willing to pay for exposure to China’s stocks.”  
 International investors pushed the price of BlackRock
Inc.’s iShares FTSE/Xinhua A50 China Index exchange-traded fund
to 11 percent above the value of its underlying assets last week,
the highest level in almost two years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fund trades in Hong Kong and tracks
the 50 biggest A-share companies.  
 The Shanghai Composite fell 23 percent this quarter,
lagging behind gauges in the other so-called BRIC markets of the
largest developing economies, after China raised banks’ reserve
requirements to the highest level in at least three years and
curbed real-estate speculation. Property prices rose 12.4
percent in May from a year earlier, the second-fastest pace
after April’s 12.8 percent record gain.  
 BRIC Markets  
   Brazil ’s Bovespa index dropped 12 percent during the period
and  Russia ’s Micex slipped 8.7 percent, while  India ’s Bombay
Stock Exchange Sensitive Index advanced 0.3 percent. The MSCI
emerging gauge lost 8.9 percent.  
 The New York-based Conference Board corrected its April
gauge for the outlook of  China’s economy  this week, saying its
leading index for the country rose the least since November,
rather than registering the biggest gain in 14 months.  
 A flood of new stock may also weigh on the market,
according to  Credit Suisse Group AG ’s Sakthi Siva. Chinese
companies will sell about 320 billion yuan ($47 billion) of new
shares in Shanghai and Shenzhen this year as they fund expansion
and banks bolster capital after a record amount of government-
led lending, PricewaterhouseCoopers predicts.  
 Agricultural Bank’s share sale in Shanghai and Hong Kong is
the biggest initial public offering since Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd.’s $21.9 billion sale almost four
years ago.  
 ‘Quite Cautious’  
 “I’m still quite cautious,” Siva, the Singapore-based
top-ranked Asia strategist in Institutional Investor’s 2010 poll,
said in an interview. “There’s quite a lot of supply.”  
 Ending the fixed 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar should help
“contain inflation and asset bubbles,” China’s central bank
said in a June 20 statement. Inflation will probably peak at 3.7
percent toward the end of the third quarter then “level off”
the rest of the year, according to CICC’s Hong.  
 Chinese authorities had prevented the currency from
strengthening against the dollar since July 2008 to help
exporters cope with the global financial crisis.  
 The yuan appreciated 21 percent in the three years after a
managed float against a basket of currencies was introduced in
2005. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards yesterday indicate
investors are betting the yuan will strengthen 1.6 percent. A
yuan revaluation won’t happen quickly or fix all of the global
economy’s imbalances, International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said this week.  
 Vanke, China Merchants  
 China Vanke Co., the Shenzhen-based property developer that
sank 37 percent this year, trades for 13 times reported profits,
down from 35 times a year ago, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Earnings growth of 29 percent this year will help
lift the stock 42 percent, according to analyst estimates on
Bloomberg.  
 China Merchants Bank Co.’s 2.7 price-to-book ratio is near
a record low relative to the MSCI Emerging Markets Financials
Index after the Shenzhen-based company declined 24 percent this
year. The stock is poised to surge 49 percent in 12 months,
according to analysts, who have 35 “buy” ratings and one
“sell,” according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Consumer-related shares will benefit from a shift in the
economy to increase domestic spending, said Leo Gao, who helps
oversee about $600 million at APS Asset Management Ltd. in
Shanghai, whose APS China Alpha Fund has beaten 87 percent of
peers in the past year, according to Bloomberg data.  
 “Stocks will end the year higher,” Gao said.  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:  Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn  
                       
                         
                           Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Dominique Strauss-Kahn of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), pauses during a news conference at the German federal chancellory in Berlin. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Dominique Strauss-Kahn of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), pauses during a news conference at the German federal chancellory in Berlin. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Jerry Lou, China strategist at Morgan Stanley, talks with Bloomberg's Susan about his investment strategy for Chinese stocks.
     Lou, speaking from Singapore, also discusses China's shift in its currency policy, and Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s planned initial public offering. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
