-- China Draws Taiwan Into Economic Embrace With Trade Pact
-- B y   J a n e t   O n g   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2010-11-02T07:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/china-pulls-taiwan-closer-as-former-civil-war-enemies-seal-trade-agreement.html
Fubon Financial Holding Co . and
 Capital Group  will be allowed to invest directly in Chinese
securities, giving Taiwanese investors access to a stock market
that is almost four times bigger than the island’s bourse.  The securities units of the two Taipei-based firms were
granted licenses under China’s Qualified Foreign Institutional
Investor program, according to a statement from the  China
Securities Regulatory Commission .  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index jumped 12 percent in
October, the most among the major indexes tracked globally by
Bloomberg, while Taiwan’s benchmark Taiex index gained 0.6
percent. Taiwan President  Ma Ying-jeou  has abandoned his
predecessor’s pro-independence stance and made economic
relations with China, which considers the island part of its
territory, the priority of his administration.  “This is significant as it symbolizes further
liberalization of the financial sectors for Taiwan and China,”
said Alan Ho, a fund manager at Union Securities Investment
Trust Co. in Taipei, who helps oversee NT$40 billion ($1.3
billion). “Taiwan investors may have more opportunities to
invest in China stocks in the future.”  Fubon shares gained 0.8 percent to NT$38.35, the highest
since Oct. 7, while Capital Securities Corp., the listed unit of
Capital Group, dropped 0.7 percent at the close of Taipei
trading today.  Diversifying  Taiwan  and China, separated by the Taiwan Strait, in
November last year signed three memorandums of understanding to
ease restrictions on investments in each other’s banks,
brokerages and insurers, and in June agreed on the Economic
Cooperation Framework Agreement aimed at reducing tariffs on
trade and widening access to each other’s markets.  Fubon Financial is awaiting an investment quota from
China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange and plans to
invest in yuan-denominated A-shares and issue A-share funds,
company President  Victor Kung  said in Taipei today. Foreign
investors need to obtain an investment quota from SAFE before
starting to invest.  “This will attract more capital inflows for them and may
boost operating profit” at Taiwanese securities firms, said
 Parker Wu , a fund manager at the Agriculture Bank of Taiwan, who
helps oversee the equivalent of $95 million.  Cathay Financial Holding Co.  applied to invest in Chinese
securities in September as a qualified foreign institutional
investor, Alan Lee, chief senior executive vice president at
Cathay United Bank, a unit of Taiwan’s largest listed financial
services company, said yesterday. It will help increase returns
and diversify U.S. and Europe holdings, Lee said.  Level-Playing Field  “The relaxation of this rule is good for Taiwan
politically as it shows China is opening another door to the
island,”  Monika Yang , who helps oversee almost $2 billion at
Hamon Asset Management Ltd. in Hong Kong, said by phone.
“However, I won’t expect the shares to soar because of this, as
there are other QFIIs allowed in China. This is just making it a
level-playing field for Taiwan.”  Beijing-based CSRC also said it’s revising its regulations
for the nation’s Qualified Domestic Institutional Investor
scheme to “facilitate” investments in Taiwan’s financial
derivatives products.  Taiwan in January issued rules to allow firms approved
under China’s QDII to invest up to $500 million in shares listed
on the island’s bourses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 Wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  