-- China to Keep Minor Metals Export Limits, Industry Ministry Official Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-29T07:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/china-plans-to-maintain-export-limits-on-some-metals-to-conserve-resources.html

          
          
             China, facing a trade probe by the
World Trade Organization on raw material export constraints,
will continue to curb shipment and production of minor metals to
conserve resources and limit pollution, an official said.  
 “Tungsten, molybdenum and vanadium are mineral resources
that give China an advantage and are non-renewable,” Zhang
Fengkui, division head of raw materials at the Ministry of
Industry and Information Technology, said in Beijing today.  
 China’s curbs on exports of some raw materials have
triggered complaints by the European Union, U.S. and Mexico to
the WTO, which is probing whether the policies give Chinese
manufacturers an unfair edge. The nation in March said it
stopped accepting applications for new mines to produce tungsten
and antimony until June 2011.  
 The Chinese government cut the 2010 export quota on
tungsten, used in high-temperature applications such as light
bulbs and rocket engines, to 14,300 metric tons, from 14,600
tons the previous year. The quota on molybdenum, used to toughen
steel, was unchanged at 25,500 tons, according to the  trade
ministry .  
 These minor metals “play an important role in the national
economy,” Zhang said at a conference.  
 At the current pace of exploration and production, China’s
resources of tungsten will last 20 years and molybdenum 100
years, Zhang said. The government in March said it wants to cap
this year’s output of tungsten metal at 80,000 tons, antimony at
100,000 tons and rare earth at 89,200 tons.  
 WTO Requirements  
 “WTO rules allow nations to protect their own non-
renewable resources, but require policies should apply not only
to exports, but also local production,”  Wang Qinhua , deputy
secretary general of the China Nonferrous Metals Industry
Association, said at the conference. China is studying policies
to curb domestic mining and processing of minor metals to
address WTO requirements, she said.  
 The Chinese government plans to draft a five-year guideline
on minor metals, Wang said. Exports of value-added products may
be encouraged, while overseas sales of goods with basic
processing that are energy intensive and polluting will be
restricted, she said.  
 The government may also limit tolling, or processing
imported raw materials for export, for products including those
for which export tax rebates were removed last week, Wang said.  
 Export tax rebates will be removed on some steel, nickel,
zinc, tungsten, molybdenum and vanadium products from July 15,
the finance ministry said on June 22.  
 Trade Complaints  
 WTO judges are probing complaints whether Chinese
restrictions on nine raw materials including coke and zinc are
discriminatory. China says the taxes are aimed at easing
overproduction and emissions of carbon and sulfur gases.  
 China also restricts exports of rare earths, used to make
parts in cell phones and radars, and the U.S. Trade
Representative may be studying the limits for a trade case,
industry officials said this month.  
 Molybdenum demand in China, the largest user, will climb
9.1 percent to 60,000 tons in 2010, from 55,000 tons last
year, an executive at  Jinduicheng Molybdenum Co.  said at the
conference today.  
 Chinese demand accounted for 31 percent of global
consumption last year, said  Ma Quanzhi , deputy general manager
of Asia’s largest producer of molybdenum.  
 The discovery of deposits in Guangdong, Anhui, Xinjiang and
Henan provinces will help Chinese production expand in the next
few years, Ma said. China, the world’s largest producer,
accounted for 37 percent of global molybdenum output last year,
Ma said.  
 Producers’ costs have risen to between 1,500 yuan and
1,800 yuan a ton because of rising raw material and fuel costs,
and taxes, Ma said.  
 The “uncertainties” of the world economic recovery and
restarts of molybdenum mines in U.S. and Canada aren’t
supportive of a price rally in the metal, he also said.  
 -- Xiao Yu . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Keith Gosman .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        