-- China's Stocks Decline to 14-Month Low on Slowing Economic Growth Concern
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-29T08:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/chinese-property-stocks-may-rebound-july-equity-index-futures-advance.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  slumped, driving the
benchmark index down the most in six weeks, on concern the
nation’s property curbs and Europe’s debt crisis will slow
growth in the world’s third-largest economy.  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  retreated 108.23, or 4.3
percent, to close at 2,427.05, the most since May 17 and the
lowest close in 14 months, after the Conference Board revised
down its April gauge for China’s economic outlook to indicate a
weaker expansion. Declines deepened after the gauge fell below a
technical support level at 2,481.  
 “There remains uncertainty over the magnitude of a
slowdown in Chinese growth,” said  Michael Liang , chief
investment officer at Foundation Asset Management (HK) Ltd.,
which oversees $120 million. “Today’s break below a key
technical level is prompting a rush of selling.”  
 Jiangxi Copper Co.  paced losses by commodity producers as
raw material prices slumped and Citigroup Inc. said Chinese
exports face “strong headwinds.”  Bank of China Ltd.  dropped
among lenders on concern Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.’s
initial public offering may divert investor funds away from
existing equities. Health-care and technology shares led
declines by small-company stocks on valuation concerns.  
 The Shanghai Composite has tumbled 22 percent this quarter,
heading for the  biggest loss  since the three months to March
2008, as policy makers tightened rules for the property market
and concern grew that Europe’s austerity measures will hurt
demand in China’s largest export destination. The equity index
is the world’s third-worst performer this year, down 26 percent.  
 The  CSI 300 Index , which tracks stocks in the Shanghai and
Shenzhen markets, fell 4.6 percent to 2,592.02 today.  
 Conference Board  
 The leading economic indicator for China rose 0.3 percent
in April, less than the 1.7 percent gain reported on June 15,
the Conference Board said. The previous release contained a
“calculation error” for total floor space on which
construction began, the research group said in a statement today.  
 “This correction doesn’t affect our outlook for the
Chinese economy,” William Adams, resident economist for the
Conference Board in Beijing, said in a telephone interview.
“Growth was not likely to accelerate in China, and in fact, a
moderation is possible. This correction also supports the same
view.”  
 Analysts are split on whether the People’s Bank of China
will raise interest rates this year from crisis levels after
having increased bank reserve requirements, set a lower target
for lending and eased the currency’s peg to the dollar,
according to a Bloomberg News survey last week.  
 China’s annual growth will slow to 9.3 percent next year
from 10.1 percent this year, according to the median forecasts
in Bloomberg News surveys of economists.  
 Commodity Producers  
 Concerns over the prospect for growth sent both copper and
nickel prices down by more than 3 percent. Crude oil declined
1.9 percent to $76.74 a barrel.  
 Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
slumped 7 percent to 25.52 yuan, the most since Nov. 27.
 Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the nation’s largest maker of the
lightweight metal and also called Chalco, dropped 4.9 percent to
9.45 yuan. Zijin Mining Group Co., the biggest gold producer,
slid 6.4 percent to 6.30 yuan.  
 The Shanghai Composite’s breach of a “double-bottom” at
2,481 today is a “bearish signal” for China’s stocks,  Jamie Coutts , technical analyst at BGC Partners in Singapore, said in
e-mailed comments.  
 A double bottom is a chart pattern showing a drop in price,
followed by a rebound and then another drop to the same price,
usually indicating support at that level.  
 Today’s retreat capped a five-day, 6.2 percent decline for
the Shanghai Composite. That’s the longest losing streak in two
months.  
 Stock Valuations  
 Chinese stocks  will probably stay “range-bound” pending
clarity on policies and the economy,  Shen Minggao , head of China
research at Citigroup, said in a report.  
 “While low valuations are attractive in the near term,
risks lurk in terms of earnings downgrades or policy reversal,”
Shen said. “Macro policies remain directionless.”  
 The Shanghai Composite  trades  at 18 times reported earnings,
compared with a multiple of around 33 times at the start of 2010.  
 Global financial markets will face “renewed turbulence”
as structural deficits and public debt in Europe and the U.S.
hamper economic growth, Aberdeen Asset Management said.  
 Bank of China lost 2.3 percent to 3.47 yuan. Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s biggest listed
lender, slid 3.3 percent to 4.12 yuan.  
 Agricultural Bank set a price range for the Shanghai part
of its initial public offering that will allow it to raise as
much as $20.1 billion.  
 Share Sale  
 The Beijing-based bank may offer 22.2 billion shares in
Shanghai at 2.52 yuan to 2.68 yuan apiece, it said yesterday.
Agricultural Bank last week priced shares in the Hong Kong part
of its IPO at HK$2.88 to HK$3.48 each.  
 Chinese banks will face a rise in bad loans that is
unlikely to be big enough to cause “system-wide distress,”
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  
 Real estate industry and local-government financing
vehicles will be sources of bad loans, Yvonne Zhang, a China
banking analyst at Moody’s at a conference in Shanghai. Economic
growth and government policy are key to loan quality at China’s
banks, she said.  
 Small Caps  
 The  CSI Smallcap 500 Index , which trades at about 40 times
reported earnings, slid 5.7 percent to 3,736.98, the lowest
close since Oct. 16.  
 Jiangsu Yuyue Medical Equipment Co. declined 4.1 percent to
34.70 yuan, trimming its gain this year to 62 percent. Sanan
Optoelectronics Co., a manufacturer of lighting emitting diode
products, fell 2.6 percent to 41.77 yuan. The stock has
surged 58 percent in 2010.  
 “The major problem with small-cap stocks is their high
valuations,” said  Zheng Tuo , president of Shanghai Good Hope
Equity Investment Management Co. “There’s no way they can hold
such a high valuation amid the economic slowdown.”  
 The following companies were among the most active in
China’s markets. Stock symbols are in brackets after companies’
names.  
 Gemdale Corp.  (600383 CH), a property developer, slumped
9.9 percent to 6.18 yuan.  Zhao Hanzhong  resigned as a senior
vice president and a member of the company’s board for personal
reasons, according to the company’s filing to Shanghai’s stock
exchange.  
 Pingdingshan Tianan Coal Mining Co.  (601666 CH), the listed
unit of China’s fifth-largest producer of the coal, retreated
4.9 percent to 13.93 yuan, the lowest since April 2009. The
company said eight people died in an accident at one of the
company’s mines.  
 -- Zhang Shidong ,  Chua Kong Ho . Editors:  Richard Frost ,  Allen Wan   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Popper, chief investment officer at SG Hambros Bank Ltd., talks about the economic outlook for China.
     The New York-based Conference Board revised its leading economic index for China to show the smallest gain in five months in April, in a release that contributed to the biggest sell-off in Chinese stocks in more than a month. Popper speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Lewis Wan, chief investment officer at Pride Investments Group Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s planned initial public offering and the outlook for China's banking industry.
     Agricultural Bank set a price range for the Shanghai part of its initial public offering that will allow it to raise as much as $20.1 billion, according to a company statement. The Beijing-based bank may offer 22.2 billion shares in Shanghai at 2.52 yuan to 2.68 yuan apiece, it said. Agricultural Bank last week priced shares in the Hong Kong part of its IPO at HK$2.88 to HK$3.48 each. Wan, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses China's economy and stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
