-- China Stocks Breach `Key' Technical Support at 2,481, BGC Partners Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-29T07:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/china-stocks-breach-key-technical-support-at-2-481-bgc-partners-says.html

          
          
             The  Shanghai Composite Index ’s fall
below “key” technical support of 2,481 deepened losses today
and sent a bearish signal to investors, according to BGC
Partners Inc.  
 The measure tumbled 4.3 percent to 2,427.05, the steepest
decline since May 17. The gauge breached a so-called “double-
bottom” at 2,481,  Jamie Coutts , a Singapore-based technical
analyst at BGC, said in e-mailed comments. A double bottom is a
chart pattern showing a drop in price, followed by a rebound and
then another drop to the same price, usually indicating support
at that level.  
 “Today’s break below a key technical level is prompting a
rush of selling,” said  Michael Liang , chief investment officer
at Foundation Asset Management (HK) Ltd., which oversees $120
million. Shanghai Good Hope Equity Investment Management Co.
President  Zheng Tuo  said investors “now expect shares to extend
declines after the breach.”  
 The Shanghai Composite has plunged 26 percent this year,
the worst performing stock market in the world after Greece and
Cyprus, according to Bloomberg data. Chinese stocks have fallen
on concern government measures to rein in housing prices and the
European debt crisis will damp economic growth.  
 The Conference Board today revised down its April gauge for
China’s economic outlook to indicate slower growth. The nation’s
exports face “strong headwinds” in the second half of the year
from policy tightening measures and the European debt crisis,
reducing prospects of a rebound in the stock market, Citigroup
Inc. said.  
 Global Rout  
 China’s stocks are likely to a trigger a rout for global
equities if the Shanghai Composite fails to hold a “double
bottom,” BGC’s Coutts said June 21. The Shanghai Composite may
fall as low as 2,200, he said.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 1.4 percent to 114.04.
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures declined 0.8 percent.  
 In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast price changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net 
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        