-- China Growth Outlook Hurt by Regulatory Environment, EU Businesses Claim
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-29T06:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/china-growth-outlook-hurt-by-regulatory-environment-eu-businesses-claim.html

          
          
             European businesses’ optimism about
growth and investment in China is being undermined by a
regulatory environment that appears to discriminate against
foreign companies, a survey released today shows.  
 Regulatory interference and unpredictability are the
greatest concerns of European business operating in the country,
the  EU Chamber of Commerce in China  said. A total of 39 percent
of members surveyed believe government policies will become less
fair for foreign-invested companies in the next two years, while
the same percentage say discretionary enforcement of laws and
regulations are the top obstacle to doing business in China.  
 “European companies are increasingly concerned about the
unfairness toward foreign-invested enterprises in terms of
policies and actions,”  Jacques de Boisseson , president of the
chamber, told a briefing in Beijing. “The Chinese authorities
and China in general should not take the presence of European
companies and their commitment to China for granted.”  
 The European Union is China’s biggest  trading partner  and
the country’s largest export market, accounting for 20 percent
of the Asian nation’s overseas sales last year. The bloc
accounted for 4.6 percent of foreign investment in China in 2008,
compared with 3.4 percent from Japan and 2.7 percent from the
U.S., according to the latest  figures  available from the
government.  
 The EU Chamber in China has more than 1,300 members
including Nokia Oyj, Volkswagen AG and Airbus SAS. More than 500
companies took part in the organization’s annual business
confidence survey, the most since the report started seven years
ago, according to Jason Ding, managing partner at Roland Berger
Strategy Consultants in Beijing which conducted the survey.  
 Tougher Enforcement  
 European businesses perceive that the enforcement of
regulations and environmental laws are tougher on them than on
local companies, according to the survey. Some 47 percent of
respondents believe the enforcement of rules on foreign
companies is “strong” with only 7 percent saying enforcement
for Chinese companies is at the same level.  
 Concern about China’s implementation of its commitments
since it joined the World Trade Organization is also rising,
according to the survey.  
 “For the first time in four years, the proportion of
respondents who think that China is playing the game has fallen
to less than half the respondents,” de Boisseson said.  
 China may be losing some of the country’s attractions as a
foreign investment destination because of the regulatory
environment, the survey showed.  
 As many as 30 percent of respondents said China was
currently their top  investment  destination globally, while only
21 percent said it would retain the top spot in the next five
years.  
 Perceived Risks  
 China’s economy grew 11.9 percent in the first quarter, the
fastest pace in almost three years as the government’s 4
trillion yuan ($588 billion) stimulus package boosted investment
and consumer spending.  
 Imports  last month increased 48.3 percent from a year
earlier as retail sales gained 18.7 percent and foreign
investment climbed 28 percent.  
 Most companies surveyed by the EU Chamber said the growth
outlook in China is positive even as the perceived risks from
competition with domestic rivals and rising labor costs increase.  
 The survey found 78 percent of respondents were
“optimistic,” rebounding from 65 percent in 2009 in the depths
of the global economic crisis. A smaller 34 percent said they
were “optimistic” about the outlook for profitability,
unchanged from last year.  
 Increasing revenue is the top priority for 84 percent of
respondents over the next 12 months, with only 16 percent saying
their focus is on reducing costs, the survey showed.  
 “Companies see the first step to improving profitability
is to expand their market share or take advantage of the growth
of the market,” de Boisseson said. “Rising labor costs per se
are not seen as a problem generally by our members, provided
they are accompanied by an expansion of the market.”  
 -- Nerys Avery  in Beijing. Editors:  John Liu ,  Eugene Tang .  
 To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7558 or
 navery2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        