-- China Resources Acquires Hong Kong's Pacific Coffee, to Take on Starbucks
-- Marco Lui
-- 2010-06-29T07:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/china-resources-to-buy-80-stake-in-pacific-coffee-from-chevalier-pacific.html

          
          
             China Resources Enterprise Ltd ., the
state-backed company that’s China’s largest brewer, will buy
control of Hong Kong’s second-largest coffee chain, aiming to
expand and surpass Starbucks Corp. on the mainland.  
 Chevalier Pacific Holdings Ltd.  said in a statement today
that China Resources will pay HK$326.6 million ($42 million) for
80 percent of  Pacific Coffee Group . The chain has 83 outlets in
the city, compared with more than 100 for Starbucks, the largest
coffee-shop operator in both China and the world.  
 China Resources plans to expand Pacific Coffee into China’s
largest chain from five existing mainland outlets, in part by
opening branches in its 200 hypermarkets, Deputy Managing
Director  Frank Lai  said today. Starbucks now has about 380
stores in China, and plans to have “thousands” there
eventually, Chief Executive Officer Howard Schultz said in April.  
 “With the extensive distribution network of China
Resources, Pacific Coffee can expand its business in China a lot
faster than it could by going solo,”  Kenny Tang , a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Redford Assets Management Ltd., who rates China
Resources a “buy,” said by phone today. “They could compete
with Starbucks for market share.”  
 Pacific Coffee is “complimentary” to China Resources’
more than 2,800 retail stores in China as it may attract “more
sophisticated consumers,” the company’s Lai told reporters in
Hong Kong today.  
 Retail Focus  
 State-controlled  China Resources  is concentrating on
consumer businesses to tap increasing spending in China. Monthly
retail sales in China have risen an average of 17 percent from a
year earlier in the past 12 months, according to government data.  
 American technology executive Thomas Neir founded Pacific
Coffee after being unable to find a good cup of coffee in Hong
Kong. The chain opened its first outlet in 1992, eight years
before Starbucks arrived in a venture with Jardine Matheson
Holdings Ltd. unit Maxim’s Caterers Ltd. Neir and his partners
sold Pacific Coffee to Chevalier for HK$205 million in 2005.  
 In addition to 86 company-owned outlets in Hong Kong and
China, Pacific Coffee has four shops in Singapore and five
franchised outlets, in Macau, Malaysia and China. Lai said the
company plans to own most of the new stores in China.  
 “China Resources would like to diversify along food and
retail, and now they want to take an established Hong Kong brand
to explore the Chinese market,”  Keith Li , an analyst at CIMB-GK
Securities (HK) Ltd., said in a phone interview today. “It’s
too early to say whether the company could successfully maximize
the interest to shareholders, as Pacific Coffee may not be as
profitable as Starbucks.”  
 Head Start  
 Still, Starbucks has a head start of more than a decade on
the mainland. The company opened its first coffeehouse in China
in Beijing in 1999 and entered Shanghai a year later, in a
venture with Taiwan’s Uni-President Enterprises Corp.  
 Starbucks won’t comment on the Pacific Coffee deal,
spokeswoman  Caren Li  said by phone from Shanghai today,
confirming that the company is the biggest specialty coffee
company in China.  
 Chevalier Pacific , 54 percent held by  Chevalier
International Holdings Ltd. , said it will keep 20 percent of
Pacific Coffee. The chain will gain greater consumer recognition
in China and “seize a bigger market share in a more efficient
manner,” Chevalier said.  
 Stock in Chevalier Pacific gained 1.6 percent to 62 Hong
Kong cents at 3:47 p.m. in Hong Kong, as the benchmark Hang Seng
Index fell 2.5 percent.  China Resources  dropped 3.7 percent to
HK$27.70.  
 Pacific Coffee Earnings  
 Pacific Coffee had had an after-tax profit of HK$17.6
million in the year through March 31, 2010, against a year-
earlier net loss of HK$20.3 million, Chevalier said.  
 “Profit contribution from this acquisition will be limited
in the short run; still, it’s a good buy for strategic
development,”   Redford’s Tang  said. This “will help to raise
the company’s image, as it’s shifting focus to the more high-end
market.”  
 To contact the reporters this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
 Marco Lui  in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        