-- New Jersey's Christie Pushes for Tax Cap Amid $29.4 Billion Budget Victory
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-06-29T18:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/christie-pushes-new-jersey-property-tax-cap-after-29-4-billion-budget-win.html

          
          
             New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
signed a $29.4 billion budget for fiscal 2011 that closed a
record deficit without raising taxes, and summoned lawmakers for
a special session to cap growth in the U.S.’s highest property
taxes.  
 The spending plan overcame a gap of almost $11 billion and
prevented a government shutdown after eight Democrats in the
Assembly and four in the Senate joined Republicans to pass the
measure for the year beginning July 1.  
 Christie, 47, New Jersey’s first Republican elected
governor since 1997, came to office in January on a pledge to
rein in spending after property taxes climbed 72 percent in 10
years. His  budget  reduces school funding by $820 million and
includes less aid for towns and cities.  
 “Today is the culmination of our first five months,”
Christie said at a budget-signing ceremony in South River, New
Jersey, today. “If Trenton is not completely upside down yet,
we certainly have it by the ankles and we’re shaking it
around.”  
 The governor called the special session to begin July 1 on
his proposed constitutional amendment to limit increases on
real-estate levies to 2.5 percent a year. The Democrat-led
Legislature approved a competing cap of 2.9 percent yesterday.  
 Democratic Competition  
 That plan, pushed by Senate President  Stephen Sweeney ,
would be instituted through legislation. It was approved in the
Assembly 44-33 and the Senate 23-17 in party-line votes.
Property taxes in New Jersey averaged $7,281 in 2009.  
 Christie said the Democrats’ plan contained too many
exemptions and lacked the permanence of a constitutional
amendment.  
 “Property-tax relief needs to be indelible so people can
count on it,” the governor said.  
 Democrats objected to some of the cuts Christie included
in his spending plan, the first of his term. In addition to the
school cuts, the governor slashed $445 million from municipal
funding, put off a $3 billion payment to state pensions, and
reduced property tax rebates for the elderly.  
 “Governor Christie’s signature marks an unfortunate day
for New Jersey, one that steers us away from our long-term
commitment to protecting our most vulnerable residents,”
Assembly Speaker  Sheila Oliver , a Democrat from East Orange who
voted for the governor’s budget, said in a statement today.  
 Property-Tax Rebates  
 Christie saved almost $850 million by suspending property-
tax rebates for the year and reducing spending on welfare,
mental health and home nursing care for the elderly. The plan
maintains a $300 million reserve.  
 “Today is a historic day for the state of New Jersey,”
Assemblyman  Joseph Malone , a Republican from Bordentown, said
today. “We’re finally taking back New Jersey and putting its
government in the hands of the people.”  
 Democrats tried unsuccessfully to extend an income-tax
surcharge on millionaires to raise enough revenue to restore
some senior programs, including the property-tax rebates.  
 “Democrats will pass this budget only because the other
option, to shut the state down, would be worse,” Senate Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Sarlo , of Wood Ridge, said yesterday.
“Shared sacrifice needs to be more than a bumper sticker.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in South River, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        