-- Chuo Mitsui Trust Aims to Sell Japanese Stock Funds to Overseas Pensions
-- Takako Taniguchi
-- 2010-06-30T00:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/chuo-mitsui-trust-aims-to-sell-japanese-stock-funds-to-overseas-pensions.html

          
          
             Chuo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc.  said
it aims to sell 200 billion yen in ($2.2 billion) in Japanese
stock-based investments to overseas pension funds this year as
it targets growth abroad.  
 “We have to find new sources of growth for the mid-to-long
term future,” said  Ken Sumida , 59, who yesterday became
president of the  Chuo Mitsui Asset Trust and Banking Co.  unit.
“We want European and the Middle East asset managers to be
buying Japanese stocks.”  
 Chuo Mitsui, which plans to merge with  Sumitomo Trust &
Banking Co.  in April 2011, wants to bolster its reputation with
overseas pension and sovereign wealth fund managers as it
prepares to create Japan’s largest trust bank, said Sumida. With
84 percent of revenue generated  domestically  last fiscal year,
the trust bank faces an aging population and limited growth in
Japan’s pension fund assets.  
 “The Japanese asset management industry saw little if any
new inflows from pension funds, other institutional investors or
retail investors” in fiscal 2009, said  Sadayuki Horie , a
researcher at Nomura Research Institute Ltd. Even with little
growth in Japan’s equity market, asset managers may be able to
boost business and provide investors with high returns by
focusing on companies taking advantage of Asian growth, he said.  
 Overseas Growth  
 The World Bank this month forecast developing nations in
East Asia to grow by 8.7 percent this year and 7.8 percent in
2011, compared with 2.5 percent and 2.1 percent growth for Japan
in the same periods.  
 Japan’s economy had the fewest number of workers in 20 years
in May, falling to 62.2 million, according to figures released
by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications yesterday.  
 The Tokyo-based bank, which manages about 23 trillion yen
in client assets, also plans to boost holdings of overseas
stocks, including in developing countries, to increase returns
to investors, Sumida said.  MSCI Emerging Markets Index , which
tracks 754 stocks, has gained 21 percent in the past 12 months,
compared with a 10 percent drop in the benchmark Topix Index.  
 “If we don’t increase the weighting of overseas stocks,
asset management performance won’t get better,” said Sumida,
speaking in Tokyo on June 16. “We’ll invest in stocks where
there is growth.”  
 Chuo Mitsui fell 1.5 to 315 yen in Tokyo as of 9:48
a.m. in Tokyo. The  Topix Banks Index , which tracks 83 lenders,
fell 1.5 percent.  
 The bank is approaching investors to buy Chuo Mitsui’s
investment products through its London-based unit and is
searching for tie-ups with overseas asset-managers to boost
coverage of non-Japanese markets, according to Sumida.  
 Chuo Mitsui  and  Sumitomo Trust  plan to merge their banking
units in April 2012, one year after creating a merged holding
company. Together they have about 58 trillion yen in assets
under management, the largest figure of any Japanese banking
group, according to Sumida.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ken Sumida, president of Chuo Mitsui Asset Trust & Banking Co., speaks during an interview in Tokyo. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ken Sumida, president of Chuo Mitsui Asset Trust and Banki  
                       
                         
                           Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Ken Sumida, president of Chuo Mitsui Asset Trust and Banking Co., speaks during an interview in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Ken Sumida, president of Chuo Mitsui Asset Trust and Banking Co., speaks during an interview in Tokyo. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
