-- Citigroup Recoups Loss After Circuit Breaker Ends
-- Nina Mehta
-- 2010-06-29T19:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/citigroup-trading-halted-by-circuit-breaker-as-shares-fall-as-much-as-17-.html

          
          
             A 17 percent plunge in  Citigroup
Inc.  today triggered a five-minute trading pause, making the
bank the second company halted by the two-week-old circuit-
breaker program created to prevent market panics.  
 The order that caused the slump, 8,820  shares  of Citigroup
that crossed for $3.3174 at 1:03:51 p.m. in New York, was
canceled, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock
changed hands for $3.80 when trading resumed, compared with
yesterday’s close of $4, as U.S. stocks posted the biggest
losses in three weeks.  
 Regulators are seeking to prevent declines in one or more
securities from causing  volatility  to snowball, prompting a
cascade of losses across markets. During the May 6 rout that
erased $862 billion in value from U.S. equities in less than 20
minutes, ETFs and companies such as Accenture Plc fell as much
as 99 percent. The Securities and Exchange Commission and
Commodity Futures Trading Commission said the plunge may have
been fueled by curbs that applied on some venues and not others.  
 “It’s great that the circuit breaker picked it up and
stopped everything, but how is an order that size allowed to
print so far below where it’s trading?” said  Alec Levine , an
options strategist at Wallachbeth Capital LLC in New York. “If
you did that for every stock you could effectively shut down the
stock market.”  
 Doubling the Program  
 The SEC is testing the program that pauses trading for five
minutes in S&P 500 companies when their stock rises or falls at
least 10 percent in less than five minutes after 9:45 a.m. New
York time. U.S. stock exchanges are about to propose doubling
the number of companies covered by the trading curbs and
expanding the  program  to include hundreds of exchange-traded
funds, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  
 “I’m happy those mechanisms are in place,” said  Mark Bronzo , an Irvington, New York-based fund manager at Security
Global Investors, which oversees $23 billion. “Sometimes a
stock gets down and not on a lot of volume. It smoothes out some
of the volatility.”  
 Washington Post Co.’s 99 percent surge on June 16 also
triggered the circuit breakers. Boeing Co.’s 44 percent decline
yesterday didn’t because it happened before 9:45 a.m. New York
time. Citigroup spokeswoman  Danielle Romero-Apsilos  declined to
comment.  
 ‘Mayhem’  
 “The system seems to have worked smoothly,” said  Stephen Carl , head equity trader at Williams Capital Group LP in New
York. “The question will be: How will the system work if there
is a scenario of ‘mayhem,’ with all indices and sectors and
stocks trading through thresholds?”  
 NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. will ask the SEC to
broaden circuit breakers triggered by 10 percent moves to
Russell 1000 Index companies from those in the  S&P 500 ,
according to two people familiar with the matter, who declined
to be identified because the information isn’t public. More than
300 ETFs including the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust would be covered,
one of the people said.  
 “It makes sense to expand the pilot to ETFs and other
stocks traded by a broad universe of investors,” said  Edward Johnsen , a partner in the securities regulation practice at law
firm Winston & Strawn LLP in New York and former head of
equities compliance at Deutsche Bank Securities, a unit of
Deutsche Bank AG. “I’d expect the SEC to eventually add all
National Market System securities so they’re all covered by the
same rule and the same process.”  
 NYSE, Nasdaq  
 Securities in the National Market System are companies or
ETFs listed on the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Arca and NYSE
Amex -- all owned by  NYSE Euronext  -- or  Nasdaq OMX ’s Nasdaq
Stock Market. They can be traded on venues including public
markets and private platforms known as dark pools.  
 John Heine , a spokesman for the SEC in Washington, declined
to comment on the exchanges’ plans for the program, which lasts
through December.  Eric Ryan , a spokesman at NYSE Euronext,
declined to comment, as did  Robert Madden  of Nasdaq OMX.  
 During the May 6 drop, almost 20,800 trades that were at
least 60 percent away from the market price when the plunge
began were later canceled. ETFs accounted for 70 percent of the
securities with trades on May 6 that were later voided by
exchanges. SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said the SEC would
continue to examine trading issues involving ETFs to determine
why those securities were among the most affected that day.  
 Dislocations  
 CME Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Craig Donohue  said
June 22 that curbs on ETFs tracking a large portion of the
market could cause dislocations given that their prices are
derived from underlying baskets of stocks and are linked to
equity-index futures, which may continue trading while the ETF
is paused. CME, based in Chicago, runs the world’s biggest
futures exchange.  
 Donohue’s concern highlights the “need for more
coordination between instruments that have similar types of
exposure to the market but trade in different asset classes,”
said  Adam Sussman , director of research at Tabb Group LLC, a
financial services research firm in New York. “There needs to
be coordination so liquidity pressure doesn’t just move from the
equities market to the futures market,” he said.  
 He endorsed the expansion of curbs beyond the S&P 500.  
 “Most people want to see the circuit breakers more broadly
applied so they’re not just for the most liquid stocks but also
those that are less liquid,” Sussman said. “Some of the more
dramatic price moves on May 6” were by less-traded companies,
he added.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit speaks during The New York Forum in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
