-- China Leading Index Gain Cut to Smallest in Five Months, Hammering Stocks
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-29T08:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/conference-board-corrects-china-leading-index-for-april-with-smaller-gain.html

          
          
             The Conference Board revised its
leading economic index for China to show the smallest gain in
five months in April, in a release that contributed to the
biggest sell-off in Chinese stocks in more than a month.  
 The gauge of the economy’s outlook compiled by the New
York-based research group rose 0.3 percent, less than the 1.7
percent gain it reported June 15. The Conference Board said in
an e-mailed  statement  that the previous reading contained a
calculation error for floor space on which construction began.  
 Equities slumped in Asia and Europe as the prospect of a
slowdown in the fastest-growing major economy fanned concern
that the global recovery may weaken. With American consumers
boosting their savings rates and European governments moving to
cut spending and restrain fiscal deficits, emerging markets in
Asia have led the rebound in the past year.  
 “We do see some moderation in growth in China, and in many
ways that’s a welcome development” because the 11.9 percent
annual gain in gross domestic product in the first quarter
threatened overheating, said  Brian Jackson , an emerging-markets
strategist in Hong Kong at Royal Bank of Canada. At the same
time, investors are concerned at the implications of slowing
Chinese growth for the global economy, he said.  
 Jackson, who previously worked at the U.S. Federal Reserve
and U.K. Treasury, predicts Chinese economic growth will slow to
an 8 percent pace by year-end. He added that while the
Conference Board’s index is dated, as other data have already
been released for May, it provides a “useful” composite of
indicators for the nation’s economy.  
 Stocks Drop  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  lost 4.3 percent to 2,427.05
as of 4:25 p.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific index dropped
1.4 percent and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index retreated 1.7 percent.
China’s shares were also down as an impending sale of as much as
$20.1 billion of  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  stock hurt
investor sentiment, said  Lu Zhengwei , a Shanghai-based economist
at Industrial Bank Co.  
 The Conference Board’s index, published for the first time
in May after four years of development, is designed to capture
the outlook over the coming six months. It would have signaled
China’s growth slowdown in 2008 and the recession of the late
1980s, according to  William Adams , resident economist for the
Conference Board in Beijing.  
 “This correction doesn’t affect our outlook for the
Chinese economy,” Adams said in a telephone interview. “Growth
was not likely to accelerate in China, and in fact, a moderation
is possible. This correction also supports the same view.”  
 Property Market  
 Adams said at the time of the original release that new
construction work, the key factor pushing up the indicator in
April, may not continue to grow so quickly.  
 In the U.S., the Conference Board releases a benchmark
gauge of consumer confidence. The reading for June is scheduled
for later today, and is projected to fall for the first time
since February, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists.  
 American households boosted their savings rate to 4 percent
last month, the highest level since September, underscoring a
preference to rebuild wealth after home values tumbled the most
since the 1930s during the recession.  
 The Commerce Department last week revised its first-quarter
U.S. GDP growth estimate to 2.7 percent, from 3 percent
previously, reflecting a smaller gain in consumer spending and a
bigger trade gap.  
 Japan Weakens  
 Government figures today in Japan showed that the world’s
second-largest economy is also slowing. Industrial production
fell in May for the first time since February, the unemployment
rate increased for a third month and household spending declined.  
 Today’s Conference Board revision for China showed that
total floor space started in April dropped 0.1 percent, instead
of the 1.3 percent gain originally reported.  
 China’s regulators have tightened rules for the property
market in an effort to stem speculation and avert an asset
bubble in the aftermath of a record credit expansion last year.  
 Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government has also set a target to
shrink new loans to 7.5 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) from 9.59
trillion last year. Officials have boosted requirements for the
amount of money banks must hold as reserves, and used bill sales
to withdraw cash from the financial system.  
 China this month committed to ending its fixed exchange
rate peg to the dollar, another step that may cause the
expansion to ease. The yuan had been held at 6.83 per dollar
since July 2008 after a 21 percent gain the three prior years,
in an effort to shield exporters from the global crisis.  
 Yuan Shift  
 The shift to a more flexible yuan will slow Chinese exports
this year, adding to difficulties that include the European debt
crisis and rising costs, Yu Jianhua, a Ministry of Commerce
director general, told reporters in Toronto three days ago.  
 “The revision may have echoed existing market concern that
China’s growth may slow later this year, though economic
fundamentals are so far little affected by the European debt
crisis,” said Lu at Industrial Bank.  
 China remains the world’s fastest growing major economy,
and the yuan decision was taken after the government concluded
the rebound had “become more solidly based,” according to a
June 20 People’s Bank of China statement.  
 Indicators for May showed that exports climbed 48.5 percent
from a year before, helping yield a $19.5 billion trade surplus
for the month. Inflation accelerated to an annual 3.1 percent
pace in May, surpassing officials’ target for the full year,
retail sales gains quickened to 18.7 percent and industrial
production jumped 16.5 percent, government reports showed three
weeks ago.  
 Lending Growth  
 Lending growth also exceeded economists’ estimates for last
month. Banks extended 639.4 billion yuan ($94 billion) of new
loans in May, compared with the median forecast of 600 billion
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  
 The Conference Board’s coincident index for April, which is
a measure of current economic activity, was unchanged from the
release earlier this month. The coincident gauge increased 1.2
percent following a 0.4 percent increase in March.  
 The error for the leading index was “unfortunate where the
group has tried to be as transparent as possible,” Adams said.
The measure is based on data and surveys from the People’s Bank
of China and the statistics bureau.  
 -- Sophie Leung ,  Li Yanping . Editors:  Chris Anstey ,  Cherian Thomas   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6126 or
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       China's Premier Wen Jiabao  
                       
                         
                           Toshiyuki Aizawa/Bloomberg 
                         
                         China's Premier Wen Jiabao speaks at a luncheon meeting in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     China's Premier Wen Jiabao speaks at a luncheon meeting in Tokyo. Photographer: Toshiyuki Aizawa/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Popper, chief investment officer at SG Hambros Bank Ltd., talks about the economic outlook for China.
     The New York-based Conference Board revised its leading economic index for China to show the smallest gain in five months in April, in a release that contributed to the biggest sell-off in Chinese stocks in more than a month. Popper speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Lewis Wan, chief investment officer at Pride Investments Group Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s planned initial public offering and the outlook for China's banking industry.
     Agricultural Bank set a price range for the Shanghai part of its initial public offering that will allow it to raise as much as $20.1 billion, according to a company statement. The Beijing-based bank may offer 22.2 billion shares in Shanghai at 2.52 yuan to 2.68 yuan apiece, it said. Agricultural Bank last week priced shares in the Hong Kong part of its IPO at HK$2.88 to HK$3.48 each. Wan, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses China's economy and stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
