-- Congress Puts Out `Sell' Order on American Banks: David Pauly
-- David Pauly
-- 2010-06-29T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/congress-puts-out-sell-order-on-american-banks-david-pauly.html

          
          
             U.S. lawmakers and their Wall Street
supporters may have guaranteed another financial disaster like
the one we’re still recovering from.  
 Congress last week thought it was protecting the banks --
especially the six dominant players -- when it gutted the
financial reform bill.  
 Investors thought so too. They bid up bank shares Friday.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index  jumped 2.8 percent.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. rose 3.7 percent,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
was up 3.5 percent.  
 Sorry, folks, you have it wrong. Congress was actually
telling you to sell bank shares.  
 Ignoring evidence that investors were defrauded by subprime
mortgage instruments that even bank bosses didn’t understand,
lawmakers are refusing to rein in the culprits.  
 Now we can be sure that soon we will be hoodwinked again by
some cockamamie investment good for nothing but commanding
commissions and promising trading profits for the banks. How
about a package of exchange-traded funds, peppered with ones
that use leverage and derivatives?  
 President  Barack Obama  said the bill’s compromises give him
90 percent of his wish list for bank reform. The remaining 10
percent might be the killer.  
 Congress is caving in to pressure from the banks in two
significant areas.  
 Wrist Slaps  
 Rather than forcing banks to spin off all derivatives
trading as separate businesses -- preventing them from gambling
with depositors’ money -- Congress will let them keep trading
the instruments if they are hedging their own risks or for
interest rate and foreign exchange swaps.  
 They will have up to two years to move derivatives that
can’t be traded through a clearing house, including credit
default swaps, into a separately capitalized subsidiary.  
 Lawmakers also watered down the Volcker rule, named after
its proponent  Paul Volcker , former chairman of the Federal
Reserve and an Obama adviser. Banks will be prohibited from
trading for their own account. But Congress failed to ban them
from investing in hedge funds, which bet on the investment fad
of the day and charge huge fees, and leveraged-buyout funds,
which load up on debt as if tomorrow never comes.  
 Mere Billions  
 The institutions will be allowed to invest as much as 3
percent of their so-called Tier 1 capital into such funds. That
allows  JPMorgan Chase , for instance, to invest $3.9 billion in
these ways.  
 Wall Street didn’t get its way entirely. The ban on
proprietary trading should protect bank shareholders from a fair
amount of nonsensical risk-taking with their money.  
 Banks will lose their advantage in setting prices on
derivatives when the business goes to central markets where
prices are set by all traders.  
 Still, the banks will basically continue to do business as
before, focusing on trading instead of old-fashioned banking --
searching for huge profits and bigger bonuses. This can’t be
good news for investors or for the economy.  
 Citigroup Inc.  will eventually put billions into whatever
the successor to synthetic collateralized debt obligations turns
out to be. Before that market collapses, its shares may climb
from the current level of almost $4 back to their record high of
$57 in 2006 and then sink to last year’s low of about $1. Other
bank stocks might trace the same path.  
 No Chance  
 Congress never considered real bank reform: Breaking up the
Wall Street behemoths by separating commercial banking from
riskier investment banking. Then if investors want to bet on
 Morgan Stanley  making bets on credit default swaps, they can.
The punters will always be with us.  
 It’s unfortunate that the now publicly held investment
banks can’t revert to partnerships, with the partners at risk
instead of the shareholders.  
 Commercial banks, including Wells Fargo & Co. and  Bank of
America Corp. , then should be broken apart to increase
competition for checking accounts, credit cards and home loans.  
 Wall Street at the moment has too much influence for this
to happen. The banking industry’s hulks will continue
unrestrained. Their shareholders -- and no doubt the financial
world at large -- will suffer again.  
 ( David Pauly  is a columnist for Bloomberg News. Opinions
expressed are his.)  
 To contact the writer of this column: David Pauly in Normandy
Beach, New Jersey   dpauly@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        