-- Copper Declines on Concern Over China's Economic Outlook, U.S. Confidence
-- Millie Munshi
-- 2010-06-29T18:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/copper-declines-on-concern-over-china-s-economic-outlook-u-s-confidence.html

          
          
             Copper prices fell the most in five
weeks after reports signaled a deteriorating economic outlook in
China and the U.S., the world’s top metals buyers.  
 Equities fell around the world after the Conference Board
revised lower its leading economic index for China, pointing to
slowing expansion. U.S. consumer confidence fell to the lowest
level since March, the New-York based research group said in a
separate report. Copper is headed for a third straight monthly
loss on concern that the global recovery is faltering.  
 “Copper looks extremely weak,” said  Gijsbert Groenewegen ,
a partner at Gold Arrow Capital Management in New York. “There
are problems all over the world that are going to have a big
impact on all the commodities.”  
 Copper futures for September delivery fell 15.9 cents, or
5.1 percent, to $2.9305 a pound on the Comex in New York. That
marks the biggest loss for a most-active contract since May 17.  
 Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis coupled with fear of a
slowdown in China and the U.S. has roiled global equity and
commodity  markets  for the past two months. Copper has plunged 20
percent since touching a 20-month high in early April.  
 ‘Investor Fear’  
 “We are expecting slowing growth in China and the U.S. for
the second half of this year,”  Jeffrey M. Christian , the
managing director of CPM Group, said today in an interview in
New York. “It could create fear for investors and that would
continue to impact the base metals.”  
 The Conference Board’s  sentiment  gauge in the U.S. fell to
52.9 in June from a revised 62.7 in May.  
 The economic research firm said its China index rose 0.3
percent in April, less than the 1.7 percent gain reported on
June 15. The previous release contained a “calculation error”
for total floor space on which construction began, the group
said.  
 “Any data out of China that gives an indication of a
slowdown in construction activity will be important for
commodities,”  Daniel Major , an analyst at RBS Global Banking &
Markets in London, said by telephone.  
 Copper for delivery in three months fell 5.5 percent to
$6,494 a metric ton ($2.95 a pound) on the London Metal
Exchange.  
 Aluminum, nickel, lead, tin and zinc prices also dropped.  
 To contact the reporters on the story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net ;
 Millie Munshi  in New York at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        