-- Commodities Tumble Most in 10 Months on Economic Concerns in U.S., China
-- Whitney McFerron
-- 2010-06-29T20:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/copper-zinc-lead-commodities-lower-on-speculation-china-s-growth-may-slow.html

          
          
             Commodities fell the most in 10
months, led by declines in industrial metals and energy, on
economic concerns in the U.S. and China.  
 The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials tumbled
2.8 percent, the most since Aug. 14. Only gold climbed. A
measure of U.S. consumer confidence in June fell more than
analysts forecast, and a gauge of China’s economy in April
showed the smallest gain in five months. Equities from Shanghai
to New York tumbled.  
 “There is potential that if the global economy stops
growing, it could have a negative impact on exports,” said  Doug Harper , an analyst at Richard A. Brock & Associates, a broker in
Milwaukee. “There are concerns about the general economy. The
stock market is in the tank because there’s not much good news
out there today.”  
 The CRB index fell 7.26 to 256.27. The gauge has dropped
9.6 percent this year. Today, nickel prices plunged 7.6 percent,
the most in seven weeks. Copper tumbled 5.1 percent, and crude
oil declined 3 percent.  
 China is the world’s largest consumer of industrial metals,
soybeans, pork and cotton and is the second-biggest user of oil,
corn and sugar.  
 Today, the New York-based Conference Board, a research
group, revised its leading economic index in April for China to
a gain of  0.3 percent. On June 15, the board reported a 1.7
percent increase.  
 ‘Moderation Possible’  
 “This correction doesn’t affect our outlook for the
Chinese economy,” William Adams, an economist for the
Conference Board in Beijing, said in a telephone interview.
“Growth was not likely to accelerate in China, and in fact, a
moderation is possible.”  
 Nickel for delivery in three months fell $1,575 to $19,075
on the London Metal Exchange. The price has dropped 11 percent
this month.  
 Copper futures for September delivery fell 15.9 cents to
$2.9305 a pound on the Comex in New York.  
 “We are expecting slowing growth in China and the U.S. for
the second half of this year,” Jeffrey M. Christian, the
managing director of CPM Group, said today in an interview in
New York. “It could create fear for investors and that would
continue to impact the base metals.”  
 Oil futures for August delivery dropped $2.31 to $75.94 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  
 Gold futures for August delivery climbed 0.3 percent to
$1,242.40 on the Comex. Earlier, the metal dropped as much as
0.9 percent.  
 “Fears of a double-dip recession on the back of a mountain
of government debt is making bullion an attractive safe-haven
investment,” said  Rupert Robinson , the chief executive officer
of Schroders Plc’s U.K. private banking unit.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in London at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        