-- Corn, Soybean Futures Decline on Concern China's Economic Growth to Ease
-- Jeff Wilson
-- 2010-06-29T19:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/corn-soybean-futures-decline-on-concern-china-s-economic-growth-to-ease.html

          
          
             Corn fell, extending the longest
slump in three months, and soybeans declined on concern that
economic growth in China will slow, reducing demand for
livestock feed and food.  
 Chinese equities  tumbled to a 14 month-low after the
Conference Board revised down its April gauge for the economic
outlook to indicate a weaker expansion. The Reuters/Jefferies
CRB Index of 19 raw materials fell the most since August. China,
the world’s top hog producer, is the biggest buyer of soybeans
and the second-largest consumer of corn.  
 “The Chinese economy appears to be slowing, and that could
have a lasting negative impact on grain demand,” said  Jim Gerlach , the president of A/C Trading Inc. in Fowler, Indiana.
“A global economic-growth problem is developing that will have
a deflationary impact” on commodities, Gerlach said.  
 Corn futures for December delivery fell 8.75 cents, or 2.5
percent, to $3.44 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. The
price fell for the seventh straight session, the longest slide
since mid-March. Earlier, the commodity touched $3.4325, the
lowest level since June 9. The most-active futures have dropped
17 percent this year as Midwest rain boosted the yield potential
of the U.S. crop.  
 Soybean futures for November delivery fell 6.5 cents, or
0.7 percent, to $9.12 a bushel on the CBOT. The oilseed has
dropped 13 percent this year.  
 U.S. crop conditions may improve this week as rains
replenish soil moisture in the southern U.S. and drier weather
makes muddy fields in the Midwest more accessible to farm
machinery used to spray for weeds and pests, Gerlach said.  
 Crop Conditions  
 The condition of the U.S. corn and soybean crops declined
last week after parts of the Midwest got more than four times
the normal amount of rain.  
 About 73 percent of the  corn  was in good or excellent
 condition  as of June 27, down from 75 percent a week earlier and
77 percent two weeks ago, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
said yesterday. An estimated 67 percent of soybeans got the best
ratings, down from 69 percent last week and 75 percent on June
6.  
 “The crops should improve this week with the shift in the
weather patterns,” Gerlach said. “There is little threat”
until the middle of July, he said.  
 Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, followed by soybeans at $31.8 billion, government figures
show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        