-- CSL Says Its Flu Vaccines Aren't Contaminated After U.S. FDA Issues Letter
-- Simeon Bennett
-- 2010-06-29T06:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/csl-is-working-with-fda-on-influenza-vaccine-investigation-official-says.html

          
          
             CSL Ltd.  said its vaccines aren’t
contaminated after it received a letter from the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration stating dark particles were found in some
batches of its seasonal and pandemic flu shots.  
 CSL failed to investigate the issue thoroughly, or to rule
out the possibility that they were caused by a chemical reaction
between a vaccine preservative and vials or rubber stoppers used
to plug the containers, the FDA said in a June 24  letter  to CSL
posted on the regulator’s website yesterday. The FDA said it
isn’t aware of any findings that  endangered  patients.  
 “Our investigations show that the particles are a
discoloration of the vaccine, and are not foreign-contaminating
matter,”  Sharon McHale , a spokeswoman for the Melbourne-based
company, said today. “CSL is taking the issues raised by the
FDA very seriously” and will work with the regulator to resolve
its concerns, she said.  
 The FDA said it inspected CSL’s factory in Melbourne in
April and found deviations from good manufacturing practice.
There is no link between the irregularities and reported adverse
reactions in Australia, the FDA said. CSL withdrew its pediatric
seasonal flu vaccine from the Australian market on June 1 after
investigations failed to explain a nine-fold increase in fever
and convulsions among children who received the shot.  
 CSL , the Southern Hemisphere’s only flu-vaccine maker, fell
0.7 percent to A$32.62 in Sydney trading. The benchmark S&P/ASX
200 Index declined 0.9 percent.  
 The FDA requested a meeting with Chief Executive Officer
 Brian McNamee  and other senior executives to discuss the issues,
according to the letter.  
 Failure to Conform  
 The company failed to ensure components of its bulk
pandemic flu vaccine conformed to standards of strength, quality
and purity, including a lack of data to support expiration dates
for thimerosal, the FDA said. The company also failed to check
samples of all its commercial lots for the presence of black
particles, according to the regulator.  
 CSL’s stopper supplier, whose name was omitted from the
public version of the letter, told the company on Dec. 17 that
the stoppers may react with thimerosal, a mercury-based
preservative, and aren’t recommended for use with vaccines
containing the product, the FDA said. CSL hasn’t ruled out the
link and is still using the stoppers in multidose vials of
vaccine containing thimerosal, the regulator said.  
 The stoppers were used in 23 lots of CSL’s  Afluria  seasonal
flu vaccine and 6 lots of its pandemic H1N1 vaccine, both
containing thimerosal, that were distributed to the U.S., the
FDA said.  
 The dark particles were possibly caused by a reaction
between thimerosal and the stopper, McHale said.  
 CSL’s seasonal flu vaccine is sold as Afluria in the U.S.
and as Fluvax in Australia. Its pandemic H1N1 vaccine was sold
as Panvax in Australia. CSL licensed U.S. marketing rights for
Afluria to Merck & Co. in September.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       CSL Vaccine  
                       
                         
                           Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A nurse prepares a syringe with CSL Ltd.'s H1N1 vaccine. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A nurse prepares a syringe with CSL Ltd.'s H1N1 vaccine. Photographer: Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
