-- Cushman & Wakefield to Add Japan Assets, Betting on a Recovery in Prices
-- Katsuyo Kuwako
-- 2010-06-29T01:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/cushman-wakefield-to-add-japan-assets-betting-on-a-recovery-in-prices.html

          
          
             -- Cushman & Wakefield, the world’s
largest privately held real estate services firm, said it will
focus on adding assets in Japan as property prices near bottom.  
 Cushman & Wakefield’s assets under management in the nation
rose 10 percent to 220 billion yen ($2.5 billion) as of June
from November, said  Yoshiyuki Tanaka , president of Cushman &
Wakefield’s Japanese asset management unit. The company bought
50 billion yen of office and residential buildings in Tokyo in
the period as it shifts its focus to acquisitions, betting on a
recovery, he said.  
 “The market is not going to get worse from now on as
investors wait for an entry point,” said  Tanaka . “We don’t
plan to sell aggressively as we see prices bottoming.”  
 Transactions volume in Japan rose as commercial land prices
reached a 36-year low. The country’s 38 publicly traded real
estate investment trusts more than doubled property purchases in
the first quarter to 229 billion yen from the same period last
year, according to IB Research and Consulting Inc.  
 Japan, supported by acquisitions by real estate investment
trusts, accounted for 40 percent of total investment volumes of
direct commercial property transactions in the Asia-Pacific
region in the first quarter, according to Chicago-based broker
Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  
 Residential and retail properties each account for one-
fifth of total assets  Cushman & Wakefield  manages, with 39
percent in office buildings, according to data from the New
York-based company.  
 While a stable return can be achieved in Tokyo, a quick
rebound in real estate prices is not likely, Tanaka said.  
 “A stable return of 4 percent is not very attractive to
opportunistic funds,” said Tanaka. “We are likely to see
property prices recover gradually.”  
 Japan’s commercial land prices declined 6.1 percent in 2009,
the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism said
in a  report  in March. Values are at their lowest since the
ministry began collecting comparable data in 1974.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kathleen Chu  in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
 Katsuyo Kuwako  in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        