-- Democrats Prepared to Scale Back Climate Legislation, Senator Kerry Says
-- Simon Lomax
-- 2010-06-30T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/democrats-willing-to-scale-back-carbon-cap-in-energy-bill-kerry-says.html

          
          
             Democrats would be willing to
“scale back” a climate proposal that would cap greenhouse
gases across the economy, Senator  John Kerry  said after a
meeting with President  Barack Obama .  
 Obama told a bipartisan group of 23 senators at the White
House yesterday he wants energy legislation to make companies
pay a price for releasing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse
gases into the atmosphere, said Kerry, the lead author of a
plan to curb the pollution that scientists have linked to
climate change.  
 Still, the bill is likely to be significantly more limited
than an earlier proposal, which imposed an economy-wide cap on
greenhouse-gas emissions, according to some Senate Democrats.  
 “All of us have to compromise,” said Kerry, a
Massachusetts Democrat. “We are prepared to scale back the
reach of our legislation.”  
 Democrats don’t hold enough seats to pass an energy bill
without some Republican support and remain split over the scope
of the legislation. Party leaders have been looking for Obama’s
help to mend the rift within their party and secure a handful
of Republican votes.  
 After the meeting, White House officials released a
statement reaffirming Obama’s support for “putting a price on
pollution.” Still, the president wants to “get something done
this year” and is open to “other ideas” as long as they curb
oil use, create jobs, cut pollution and make the U.S. less
reliant on foreign sources of energy, the statement said.  
 House Measure  
 Obama supported legislation narrowly passed by the U.S.
House last year that would create a cap-and-trade system in
which power plants, oil refineries and factories buy and sell a
declining number of carbon dioxide allowances.  
 The bill stalled in the Senate amid criticism from
Republicans and some Democrats that the added cost of these
pollution rights would drive up energy prices and hurt the
economy. Kerry and Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut
independent, unveiled a revamped cap-and-trade bill last month
and are pushing for Congress to pass it this year.  
 Senator  Tom Carper , a Delaware Democrat who supports an
economy-wide cap on greenhouse-gas emissions, said plans for
cutting pollution must be scaled back to become law this year.  
 The “sweet spot” would be legislation that is focused on
pollution from the electricity sector instead of the entire
U.S. economy, Carper said.  
 Senator  Jeff Bingaman , chairman of the chamber’s energy
committee, is drafting legislation for a so-called utility-only
bill that would cap greenhouse-gas emissions from companies
that produce electricity without imposing pollution limits on
other industries, according to spokesman  Bill Wicker .  
 Bingaman, a New Mexico Democrat, hasn’t decided whether to
introduce a power-sector climate-change bill and is still
reviewing other plans to cut carbon pollution, Wicker said.  
 Reid’s Decision  
 Bingaman told reporters yesterday that Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  will have to decide whether his approach has
the votes to pass the Senate.  
 “I frankly don’t know whether the support would be there
to do that or not,” he said on a conference call with
reporters. “That’s a subjective decision Senator Reid’s going
to have to make in July.”  
 Reid plans to introduce energy legislation in mid-July and
has yet to decide on the parameters of the bill, spokesman  Jim Manley  said. Democrats would consider the legislation before
voting in August to confirm  Elena Kagan  to the Supreme Court,
said Manley.  
 The Senate has little time to get energy legislation
passed into law this year, Republicans said.  
 “Our enemy when it comes to advancing an energy policy
right now is the calendar and the timing,” Senator  Lisa Murkowski , an Alaska Republican, told reporters.  
 Election-Year Push  
 Obama is making an election-year push for the Senate to
pass legislation that aims to wean the U.S. from fossil fuels
such as coal and oil and provide incentives for alternatives
such as wind and solar power.  
 The president “wants the most he can get and that’s going
to be hard,” Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia
Democrat, told reporters after the White House meeting.  
 Democrats from rural and Rust Belt states favor
legislation that doesn’t cap emissions and instead focuses on
boosting efficiency and encouraging greater development of
energy from renewable sources like solar and wind.  
 “I have a lot of concerns about the utility-only
approach,” Arkansas Democratic Senator  Blanche Lincoln  said
after the meeting.  
 ‘Will Not Sell’  
 Republicans urged Senate Democrats to drop Kerry and
Lieberman’s measure.  
 “A cap-and-trade proposal, a national energy tax, will
not sell in this country at this time,” Murkowski told
reporters.  
 Companies that plan to invest in pollution-cutting
technologies urged lawmakers yesterday to agree on an energy
bill and get it through Congress this year.  
 The growth of wind turbines and solar panels will be
limited “without a strong federal standard,”  Ed Lowe , general
manager of renewable market development for  General Electric
Co. , said in a telephone interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        