-- Democrats in U.S. Congress Draft Legislation to Tighten Mine-Safety Rules
-- Holly Rosenkrantz
-- 2010-06-29T17:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/democrats-draft-bill-to-tighten-mine-safety-rules-after-massey-explosion.html

          
          
             Democrats in Congress are drafting
legislation that would make it easier to shut mines with
repeated safety violations, such as the  Massey Energy Co.  coal
mine where 29 men died in an April explosion.  
 The bill would boost penalties for some types of violations
and add protections for whistleblowers who report safety lapses.
The measure would expand subpoena powers of the  Mine Safety and
Health Administration  and broaden pay protections for miners who
are out of work when violations lead to a mine being shut.  
 “We are determined to put sharper teeth in our workplace
safety laws and to step up federal enforcement,” Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat and chairman of the Senate Health
Committee, said in an e-mailed statement about the legislation.  
 Lawmakers and regulators have been examining steps to boost
industry safety after an April 5 explosion ripped Massey’s Upper
Big Branch mine in Montcoal, West Virginia, in the worst U.S.
coal-mine accident in 40 years. The Massey mine had been cited
for deficiencies in the ventilation system and for buildups of
combustible coal dust before the explosion.  
 “Mine operators who callously and repeatedly put their
workers in danger must be held accountable,” Representative
 George Miller , a California Democrat and chairman of the House
Education and Labor Committee, said in an e-mailed statement.
Miller and Harkin lead committees that monitor mine safety, and
plan to introduce the proposed legislation.  
 Massey Challenges MSHA  
 Massey is challenging the agency over requirements for
ventilation at the West Virginia mine. The company, in a lawsuit
made public June 23, said MSHA had rejected a system that would
have aided workers and instead forced installation of a complex
ventilation system in an area where miners were working when the
explosion occurred.  
 Senate Republicans said they were disappointed Democrats
drafted a measure without bipartisan support and said achieving
a consensus will be difficult. They faulted the proposal for
adding power to agencies such as the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration.  
 The measure “affects every business in this country and
only amplifies the adversarial role of OSHA and MSHA, without
increasing safety,” Republican Senators  Mike Enzi  of Wyoming
and  Johnny Isakson  of Georgia said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The Democrat’s safety bill would revamp the process for
declaring that a mine had a pattern of violations, which subject
the operator to stepped-up enforcement. It would also require
mine operators to pay penalties in a timely manner, and give
MSHA the power to subpoena documents and testimony.  
 Under the proposed legislation, the mine-safety agency
could seek a court order to close a mine when there is a
continuing threat to the health and safety of miners. The agency
could also require more training of miners in unsafe mines.  
 Regulators are seeking to change a system in which Massey
and other mining companies appeal safety violations to delay or
avoid safety enforcement actions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holly Rosenkrantz  in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        