-- Deutsche Bank, Commerzbank, BayernLB Pass Stress Test
-- Karin Matussek
-- 2010-06-29T14:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/deutsche-bank-commerzbank-bayernlb-are-said-to-pass-european-stress-test.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG , Commerzbank AG and
Bayerische Landesbank passed a stress test that evaluated how
about 25 European lenders would weather an economic downturn,
said three people familiar with the results.  
 The three German lenders’ tier 1 capital ratio, a key
measure of financial strength, exceeded a threshold of 6 percent
under the economic scenario, said the people, who declined to
discuss the performance of banks outside Germany. The tests
didn’t include sovereign debt, two people said.  
 The results are based on information from April that was
passed on to financial regulator BaFin and the Committee of
European Banking Supervisors, the people said. European Union
leaders pledged on June 17 to disclose the results of stress
tests by the end of July, after doubts about Greece’s ability to
repay its debts undermined confidence in the region’s banks.  
 “This is definitely good news, even if I’m not surprised
they passed,” said  Philipp Haessler , a Frankfurt-based analyst
at Equinet AG. “The idea of publishing the stress tests is good
because it can help calm the market.”  
 Spokesmen for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank and
Commerzbank, Germany’s two biggest lenders, and state-owned
BayernLB of Munich declined to comment.  
 Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  told German lawmakers last
week that tests on European banks may be extended to 100
lenders, said  Hans Michelbach , the deputy finance spokesman in
parliament for Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic
bloc.  
 Expanding Tests  
 The Bundesbank, Germany’s central bank, and financial
regulator BaFin plan to meet with officials from the country’s
largest lenders tomorrow, people with knowledge of the matter
said. They will discuss expanding the stress tests to more
participants, including additional criteria and whether
Germany’s state-owned banks, the Landesbanken, will agree to
publication.  
 Deutsche Bank,  Commerzbank  and BayernLB conducted internal
stress tests based on criteria such as stalling economic growth
and rising unemployment, the people said, and gave the results
to the national and European regulators.  
 The next test, which is called Euro System Stress Tests,
may combine the first test with expanded criteria that includes
sovereign-debt risk, the people said.  
 Without including sovereign risks “the meaningfulness of
the tests is limited, and the market will shelve them quickly,”
said  Konrad Becker , an analyst at Merck Finck & Co. in Munich.  
 Injecting Capital  
 If any of the German lenders fail future stress tests, the
aim is to announce simultaneous plans to inject capital, two of
the people said. Germany’s bank-rescue fund,  Soffin , may be used
to boost capital if needed, they said.  
 Stress tests on EU banks should assess sovereign-debt risks
when calculating how lenders would perform against shocks to the
banking system, according to a draft EU document.  
 Finance ministers from the 27 EU countries, who will
discuss the stress tests at a meeting in two weeks, also will
ask the Committee of European Banking Supervisors to extend them
to include a “significant market share of institutions” in
each nation, according to the draft, which was obtained by
Bloomberg News. The paper, dated June 25, was prepared for a
July 12-13 meeting of EU ministers in Brussels.  
 The EU leaders pledged to publish the stress test results
after an announcement by the Bank of Spain that it would make
its findings public.  
 Tough and Realistic  
 Stress tests on European banks should be “realistic”
about potential risks, and the results will be disclosed
similarly to the way the U.S. released assessments of its banks
last year, the No. 2 official at the International Monetary Fund
said.  
 European regulators’ tests need to be “tough enough and
realistic enough,”  John Lipsky , the IMF’s first deputy managing
director, said in an interview today on Bloomberg Television.
“The level of transparency will be broadly equivalent to what
we saw here in the U.S.”  
 In May last year, U.S. regulators released results of
stress tests on 19 banks that concluded losses at those
institutions could reach $599.2 billion through 2010 if
unemployment rose and home prices tumbled. The government gave
10 of the banks, including Bank of America Corp, Wells Fargo &
Co. and Citigroup Inc., six months to raise a combined $75
billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jann Bettinga  in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net .
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chief executive officer of Deutsche Bank AG Josef Ackermann. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- John Lipsky, first deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund, talks about the fiscal policies in the major European economies and the meeting of Group of 20 leaders last weekend.
     Lipsky, speaking with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack," also discusses the European Union's plan to conduct stress tests on its largest banks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 -- Ralph Silva, founder and strategist at Silva Research Network, talks about European bank stress tests and the prospects for bank  insolvencies in the next year.
     Silva speaks with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's
"Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Bayerische Landesbank logo is seen at the bank's headquarters in Munich. Photographer: Guido Krzikowski/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
