-- Disney Introduces Redesigned Store as Part of Six-Year Refurbishing Effort
-- Andy Fixmer
-- 2010-06-29T20:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/disney-introduces-redesigned-store-as-part-of-six-year-refurbishing-effort.html

          
          
             Walt Disney Co.  opened its first
redesigned store in Montebello, California, today as part of a
six-year plan to make its 350 retail outlets worldwide more
entertaining for shoppers.  
 The media company will open revamped locations 20 in the
U.S. and Europe by November, the start of the holiday shopping
season,  Jim Fielding , president of Disney Stores Worldwide, said
in an interview.  
 Disney has consolidated its retail business after taking
back control over U.S. and Japan operations. The new stores will
let customers build characters from Disney’s Pixar Studio movie
“Cars,” interact with a magic mirror and watch clips from film
and TV shows in a movie theater with a 12-foot (3.6-meter)
screen.  
 “Today in retail you have to be a special destination or
very, very price conscious,” Fielding said. “We’re going for
special.”  
 Disney will next open revamped stores in Madrid, then in
Portugal and Italy, before an outlet at Roosevelt Field mall in
Garden City, New York, at the end of July, Fielding said. A
store in Santa Monica, California, is slated for Aug. 8.  
 The Montebello store features 13-foot plastic trees on
which Disney videos are projected. The goal is to keep shoppers
entertained in the store for 30 minutes, Fielding said.  
 Disney, which owns movie studios, theme parks and the ABC
and ESPN television networks, got about  6.7 percent  of its $36
billion in revenue last fiscal year from the consumer-products
unit, which includes retail stores, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Disney, based in Burbank, California, fell 92 cents to
$32.30 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares are little changed this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        