-- Dry Weather May Cut Wheat Production in Western Australia, CBH Group Says
-- Wendy Pugh
-- 2010-06-29T08:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/dry-weather-may-cut-wheat-production-in-western-australia-cbh-group-says.html

          
          
             Dry weather may slash wheat output
in Western Australia, the nation’s largest producing state,
according to estimates by exporter and bulk handler CBH Group.  
 Production may drop to around 6.5 million metric tons from
about 8 million tons last year,  Colin Tutt , general manager
operations at Perth-based CBH, said by phone today. Total winter
grain output may reach 10 million to 10.5 million tons “at
best” compared with about 11 million tons last season, he said.  
 Reduced output would cut exports from Australia, the
world’s fourth-largest shipper of the grain. The state typically
accounts for about 40 percent of national wheat production,
according to a five-year average estimate from the Australian
Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics.  
 “We are through a third of winter already and it’s not
looking good at all,” Tutt said. “We have got a very poor base
to get a harvest up to the 10 million ton bracket.” The dry
weather had reduced planting and was threatening crop progress,
while cold weather were also halting growth, he said.  
 Wheat for September delivery on the Chicago Board of Trade
dropped 1.1 percent to $4.5975 at 5:26 p.m. Melbourne time. The
contract has slumped for three days on speculation harvesting in
the U.S., the largest exporter, will accelerate amid dry weather.  
 Perth, the capital of Western Australia, was likely to have
its second-driest June on record as high pressure systems pushed
winter rain fronts south,  Bureau of Meteorology  Climate
Information Officer John Relf said today.  
 Winter Rain  
 “The lower parts of the southwest are picking up a little
bit, but not the sort of rainfall that we associate with this
time of year,” he said. Perth has received 51.4 millimeters (2
inches) so far this month compared with 176.7 millimeters on
average, he said.  
 Inland wheat areas had received little rain in the past
week as wet weather boosted some crops closer to the coast,
Western Australian Farmers Federation President Mike Norton said
from Perth today. Rain was needed within weeks, he said.  
 “In the outer wheat belt the soil moisture is very low and
the crop will certainly start to go back after that,” he said.  
 Wheat production in Western Australia may reach 7.96
million tons, from 8.2 million tons last year, the Australian
Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics said June 16. The
state’s total winter grain crop, which also includes canola and
barley, may be 12.1 million tons, the agency said.  
 National wheat output was estimated at 22.1 million tons
and exports were forecast at 14.5 million tons, according to the
Canberra-based bureau.  
 Total winter crop planting in Western Australia was likely
to be about 6.4 million hectares, Tutt said. Planting is mostly
completed by the end of June and harvesting is from October to
December.  
 Rainfall expected for south-west coastal areas of Western
Australia later on Friday was unlikely to penetrate inland wheat
regions, Yanhui Blockley, a meteorologist at the Bureau of
Meteorology in Perth, said today. A storm front may reach the
state on July 6 or July 7 next week, she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        