-- Dubai Shares Fall to February 2009 Low on Earnings, China Growth Concern
-- Zahra Hankir
-- 2010-06-29T12:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/dubai-shares-decline-to-lowest-in-week-on-earnings-concern-china-growth.html

          
          
             Dubai’s shares slid to the lowest
level since February 2009, leading a drop in the Gulf, on
concern second-quarter earnings may fall and as a report showed
China’s economy is growing at a slower pace.  
 The  DFM General Index  lost 2.2 percent to 1,481.82 at the
close. The measure entered bear-market territory for the second
time in as many weeks, falling 20 percent from the high of the
year in March.  Dubai Financial Market  retreated to the lowest in
almost four months as Alrroya Aleqtissadiya reported the bourse
is in “advanced” talks to merge with Abu Dhabi’s exchange.
 Arabtec Holding PJSC  slid after a report it’s still holding
talks on a deal with  Aabar Investments PJSC . The  Bloomberg GCC
200 Index  declined 1.9 percent.  
 “Investors have no appetite ahead of quarterly numbers,
particularly as we await confirmation on U.A.E. bank provisions
this quarter,” said  Julian Bruce , director of equity sales at
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. “Some companies will report respectable
earnings, but clearly the banks are a worry.” Global markets
are also weighing on Gulf stocks, he said.  
 Companies will start announcing second-quarter earnings
next month. Dubai World’s creditor banks may have to set aside
10 percent of the value of their loans to the company to cover
losses after the state-owned company altered the terms on $23.5
billion of debt, Credit Suisse Group AG said June 15. The
company’s loans have a fair value of 44 cents to 46 cents to the
dollar after the restructuring proposal, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
said that day.  
 ‘Headwinds’  
 Global investor sentiment worsened after the Conference
Board revised its China leading economic index for April down to
an increase of 0.3 percent from the previously reported 1.7
percent and as Citigroup Inc. said the country’s exports face
“strong headwinds.” The  MSCI World Index  sank 1.1 percent, at
4:50 p.m. in Dubai. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures lost 1.2
percent.  
 Arabtec slid for a sixth day, declining 2.8 percent to 1.77
dirhams, the lowest level since Dec. 9. The builder and Aabar
are “talking and probably will find a formula that will achieve
the intention of the original deal,” Arabtec Chief Executive
Officer  Riad Kamal  was cited as saying by Arabian Business.
Arabtec dropped a plan in April to be taken over by Abu Dhabi-
controlled Aabar for $1.74 billion.  
 Oil Falls  
 Aabar lost 6 percent to 1.41 dirhams, a 16-month low. The
shares  have tumbled 17  percent since the company said June 24 it
is seeking to delist its shares from the Abu Dhabi exchange.  
 The  Dubai Financial Market  fell 4 percent to 1.46 dirhams.
The bourse is in talks to merge with  Abu Dhabi Securities
Exchange , the newspaper said.  Atef Fathy Ahmed , vice president
of marketing and public relations at the exchange, declined to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  
 Crude oil lost as much as 2.8 percent to $76.10 a barrel in
electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The six
nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council supply about a fifth of
the world’s oil.  
 Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  declined 2.7
percent, the most since May 25, to 6,135.86. Oman’s MSM 30 Index
dropped 0.9 percent, Qatar’s  QE Index  retreated 1.1 percent and
Bahrain’s  gauge  lost 0.3 percent. Abu Dhabi’s gauge decreased
0.9 percent. The  Kuwait SE Price Index  gained 0.5 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at   zhankir@bloomberg.net  or  
          
          


  


        