-- Dynegy Leads U.S. Electricity Producers Lower as Natural-Gas Prices Tumble
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-06-29T20:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/dynegy-leads-u-s-electricity-producers-lower-as-natural-gas-prices-tumble.html

          
          
             Dynegy Inc. , the U.S. power producer
that lost 90 percent of its market value in two years, led
declines in its industry in New York trading as tumbling
natural-gas futures signaled low electricity prices.  
 Dynegy dropped 33 cents, or 7.5 percent, to $4.09 as of the
4 p.m. close of New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Adjusting for a reverse stock split done last month, Houston-
based  Dynegy  traded as high as $49.60 in 2008. Fellow U.S. power
producers Mirant Corp.,  RRI Energy Inc.  and AES Corp. all slid
more than 5 percent. NRG Energy Inc. and  Calpine Corp.  fell 3.3
percent and 2.6 percent, respectively.  
 Natural gas for August delivery declined more than 3
percent in New York for a second straight day on forecasts for
milder weather in the Eastern U.S. Cooler weather may mean less
use of air conditioners, which would reduce demand for gas to
fuel power generation.  Dynegy’s  debt-to-equity ratio is 192
percent, compared with an average of 135 percent for members of
the Standard and Poor’s 500 Electric Utilities Index.  
 “It is a highly levered  company  and you would expect it to
trade with more volatility than its peer group,” said  Brandon Blossman , an analyst at investment bank Tudor Pickering Holt &
Co. in Houston.  
 Abundant gas supplies will probably keep power prices in a
“relatively low range” through 2012, Fitch Ratings Ltd. said
in a report yesterday.  
 Dynegy  hasn’t changed its outlook for power prices since
December and sees no market indicators that would warrant the
decline in its stock price, company spokesman  David Byford  said.
The company has $2.3 billion in liquidity and still sees power
markets strengthening as the U.S. economy rebounds, he said.  
 The highest-cost power plants, those that are last to be
turned on and tend to set the market price for electricity, are
commonly fueled by gas, according to the Texas Public Utility
Commission. Cheaper gas means a lower threshold of power prices
needed to make those plants profitable to operate.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        