-- Lead Recyclers in China Idle 8% of Total Capacity on Costs, Antaike Says
-- Glenys Sim
-- 2010-06-29T02:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/lead-recyclers-in-china-idle-100-000-tons-capacity-on-costs-antaike-says.html

          
          
             Lead recyclers in China, the world’s
largest, have idled about 8 percent of capacity because of high
input costs, according to a state-owned researcher.  
 About 100,000 metric tons of the country’s 1.2 million tons
in annual lead recycling capacity have been suspended, said Hu
Yongda, analyst at Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.
China is the world’s biggest consumer and producer of lead,
which is used mainly in batteries.  
 Lead prices in London have shed 25 percent this year,
becoming the second-worst base-metal performer, as Chinese
imports tumbled 85 percent. China accounts for about one quarter
of the world’s recycled lead, according to the  International
Lead and Zinc Study Group .  
 “Lead-acid battery prices are very high, even for used
ones, so the raw material costs are high and many recyclers are
losing money,” Hu said in a phone interview from Beijing.
Secondary lead production, including metal from recycling, makes
up just over half of global total production, the study group’s
figures show.  
 Lead prices  in Changjiang, Shanghai’s biggest cash market,
have fallen 6.9 percent this year, after gaining 36 percent last
year as China’s $586 billion stimulus spending boosted  imports .  
 Still smelters are not planning to cut output as domestic
prices remain above the cost of production, said Hu, who
estimates the average cost of making lead in China is about
14,000 yuan a ton. Chinese cash prices have risen from a nine-
month low to trade at about 14,950 yuan a ton yesterday.  
 Refined Lead  
 “Those using imported concentrate may have idled capacity
in the form of maintenance shutdowns, however those with access
to their own mines are quite far from reducing output,
especially if prices continue to improve,” Hu said. “Some
smelters in Henan may be considering output cuts but we haven’t
heard of any so far.” Henan is the country’s biggest lead-
producing region.  
 China may produce about 3.7 million tons of refined lead
this year, up 4.2 percent from last year’s 3.55 million tons,
according to Antaike estimates, slower than last year’s 18
percent increase.  
 This will help reduce the global surplus and support prices,
said Pang Ying, an analyst at Shenzhen Rongtuo Trading Co.
Global refined lead production will be 9.41 million tons this
year, outpacing consumption of 9.3 million tons, according to
the International Lead and Zinc Study Group. Lead production
exceeded demand by 71,000 tons last year, the group said.  
 “The marginal producers may still be at risk of having to
shut capacity,” said Pang.  
 Shares of  Henan Yuguang Gold & Lead Co.,  China’s largest
lead maker, have lost 26 percent this year as lead prices
plunged on concern the European debt crisis may derail the
global recovery and as China took measures to cool its economy.
They traded unchanged at 15.61 yuan in Shanghai at 10:06 a.m.
local time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        