-- LeBron James's Departure Would Cut Value of NBA Cavaliers by $250 Million
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-06-29T15:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/lebron-james-s-departure-may-cut-value-of-nba-s-cavaliers-by-250-million.html

          
          
             LeBron James’s  departure might mean
more losses for the Cleveland Cavaliers than those on the court.  
 James, a two-time Most Valuable Player at the age of 25,
will become the NBA’s most coveted free agent on July 1. The
franchise value of the Cavaliers would fall should he leave his
hometown team, perhaps by as much as $250 million, according to
former basketball executives.  
 Cleveland has had two straight 60-win seasons and finished
 second  in the NBA in attendance with an average of 20,562 fans a
game last season. It’s fifth in the league with a value of  $476
million , according to Forbes magazine’s ranking of NBA
franchises.  
 “I wouldn’t be surprised if the Cavaliers in a year or two
are below the league average in terms of value,” said  Michael Cramer , the former president of baseball’s Texas Rangers and
hockey’s Dallas Stars who teaches sports business at New York
University. “One player has a tremendous impact, especially in
the NBA, and especially when you’re talking about one of the top
two or three visible, recognizable players not only in the
league, but in all of professional sports.”  
 Forbes’s average value for an NBA franchise is $367
million.  
 Cavaliers owner  Dan Gilbert  declined to comment on the
impact James’s leaving might have on the franchise, team
spokesman Tad Carper said. Gilbert, chairman of Quicken Loans
Inc., said after the playoff loss to Boston that the Cavaliers
are the best franchise for James.  
 “We’ll do everything in our power to attract great talent
and keep great talent,” Gilbert said during a news conference.
“This isn’t among money and franchise value, this is about
delivering for the fans, the corporate sponsors and everybody
else. The plan is to continue to get better, rise above this and
deliver a championship to Cleveland.”  
 Proposals  
 In two days, teams with space under the league’s salary cap
such as the New York Knicks, Chicago Bulls, Miami Heat and New
Jersey Nets can make proposals to lure the five-time All-Star
from the Cavaliers.  
 James met with Gilbert last week in Akron, Ohio, and will
meet with other clubs in-state rather than going on a recruiting
tour, said his business manager, Maverick Carter, ESPN reported.
Carter didn’t return telephone calls or e-mails seeking comment.  
 The Knicks are sending a contingent that includes owner
 James Dolan , coach  Mike D’Antoni  and General Manager  Donnie Walsh  on July 1 to make their pitch to James, the New York Post
reported, citing a person with the franchise it didn’t identify.
NBA teams can’t comment on free agents before July 1.  
 The Nets are also set to meet with James, with new owner
 Mikhail Prokhorov  and 10-time Grammy winning rapper  Jay-Z  making
the presentation, Yahoo! Sports said, citing people in the NBA
it didn’t identify. The Bulls, Heat and Los Angeles Clippers
will also make presentations, Yahoo! Sports said.  
 $250 Million  
 Should any of the sales pitches lure James away, the
Cavaliers’ decline in value might be as much as $250 million,
said former Portland Trail Blazers President  Bob Whitsitt.   
 “If I asked today what could you sell the Cavaliers for,
obviously the first question is, ‘Is LeBron on the team or
not?’” Whitsitt, the president of consulting firm Whitsitt
Enterprises LLC, said in a telephone interview. “If he’s not on
the team, you’re probably going to be looking at something that
starts with a 2, maybe $250 million. If he’s on the team, you’re
looking at something that starts with a 5.”  
 ‘Crazy’  
 Russ Granik , the NBA’s deputy commissioner for 30 years,
said the Cavaliers’ value wouldn’t plummet that much without
James. Granik is vice chairman of Galatioto Sports Partners in
New York, which has helped buy or sell 14 professional sports
teams, and said James’s departure would more likely have a
“modest” effect on the team’s value.  
 “Having a player of LeBron’s caliber is going to improve
the way your team plays and is going to provide more in the
short term in ticket sales, sponsorship revenues and maybe even
TV revenues,” Granik said in a telephone interview. “But when
you’re talking about assets that are worth $300 million on up, I
don’t think it would have that much effect on that valuation. I
think that’s crazy.”  
 Rick Burton , the David Falk professor of sports management
at Syracuse University, said the value is unlikely to fall that
much.  
 “It may be a while again before Cleveland puts the right
pieces in place, but is the asset value going to go down?”
Burton said. “Not necessarily -- if the health of the league is
strong, the ratings from the finals are up and the economy comes
back around.”  
 Before James  
 The Cavaliers were coming off a 17-65 season when they took
James, from Akron, Ohio, with the first pick in the 2003 NBA
draft. Their average attendance that year was 11,497. The team’s
value before his arrival was $258 million, according to Forbes.  
 In the seven seasons James has been with the team, the
Cavs’ annual revenue -- which includes money ranging from
ticket, luxury box and jersey sales to sponsorships -- has risen
to almost $160 million from about $72 million.  
 The NBA’s labor contract dictates how much James can make.
He can sign a contract for as long as six years with the
Cavaliers; five with other teams. Both contracts would start
around $17 million a year, although the Cavaliers can give him
bigger raises. In total, he would make about $30 million more by
signing a six-year deal with Cleveland.  
 Sliding Value  
 Whitsitt, who built the Trail Blazers and Seattle
SuperSonics into winning teams, has seen how fast a franchise
can decline. After he left Portland in 2003, the team went from
making the playoffs 18 straight years to missing the postseason
five seasons in a row. Three years after ranking sixth in the
NBA in attendance, they had 21 wins and drew the smallest crowds
in the league. Whitsitt’s current company offers a range of
management services, including consulting on franchise sales and
acquisitions.  
 “We had really good teams, but we never had that LeBron
superstar,” Whitsitt said. “When I say they could fall to 26th
(in ticket revenue), a lot of people might say, ‘Wow, that’s
never going to happen,’ but they could go even lower than that.
It might take a year or two to see the transition, but it might
also be more difficult to attract free agents.”  
 When he was with the NBA, Granik said he would counsel
interested ownership groups not to decide whether to buy a team
based on a particular player -- even a player such as James, who
has averaged 27.8 points, seven rebounds and seven assists per
game in his career.  
 “If you do that, you’re going to be making a mistake,”
said Granik, 61. “The reality is, if you’re buying the
franchise, you’re buying it for the long term; a player could
get hurt tomorrow. It’s really the value of the franchise in the
league and the market that’s the most important.”  
 James Equals Cavaliers  
 In Cleveland though, James has become synonymous with the
Cavaliers, said Cramer, 58.  
 “The league is very driven by winning teams and more so by
visible personalities,” Cramer said. “You take away LeBron
from Cleveland, it’s not taking away one player, it’s taking
away the image of the franchise.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        