-- Ecuador's Metropolitan Touring Planning November Hotel IPOs, Chairman Says
-- Nathan Gill
-- 2010-06-29T17:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/ecuador-s-metropolitan-touring-planning-november-hotel-ipos-chairman-says.html

          
          
             Metropolitan Touring International ,
Ecuador’s biggest tour operator, is planning initial public
offerings for two of its hotels to pay off debt and raise money
for the projects, the company’s chairman said.  
 Metropolitan, which operates cruise ships in the Galapagos
Islands, plans to raise about $5 million by selling 40 percent
stakes in two luxury hotels that it’s building in Ecuador,
Chairman  Roque Sevilla  said today in a telephone interview from
Quito.  
 New central bank regulations passed in February requiring
lenders to increase the amount of deposits they hold
domestically have boosted liquidity in the nation’s financial
system, Central Bank President  Diego Borja  said last week in an
interview. The extra funds have created a surplus of cash
because of a lack of quality investment projects, Sevilla said.  
 “If everything goes well with the market we are looking at
selling shares on the exchange in November,” said Sevilla, a
Harvard-educated former mayor of Quito. “There’s a demand for
shares because there are very few investment opportunities and
an oversupply of savings. People are looking for quality
projects to invest in.”  
 Ecuador Tourism  
 Tourism in Ecuador, which represents about 4 percent of the
South American country’s economy, will bring in about $800
million this year, said Sevilla, who is also the president of
the nation’s federation of tourism chambers. About 1 million
tourists will visit Ecuador this year, he said.  
 Sevilla said a government proposal announced last week to
abolish casinos, including those in 5-star hotels, may hurt the
industry if Congress passes it. President  Rafael Correa   said  the
plan will help eliminate international mafias and limit “brain
damage” and “bad habits” in indigenous people.  
 Freddy Ehlers , Ecuador’s tourism minister, said the new
measure will eliminate “casinos, games of chance, bingos and
all those little machines,” referring to slot machines, state
news agency Andes  reported  yesterday. The government has also
tightened restrictions on the sale of alcohol this month in an
effort to curb violent crime.  
 “The measures will have an economic impact,” Sevilla
said. “It’s difficult to know by how much right now because
we’re not sure how this will affect consumers.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        