-- Medtronic's 24-hour Diabetes Monitors Better Than Finger-Stick in Study
-- David Olmos
-- 2010-06-29T20:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/medtronic-s-24-hour-diabetes-monitors-better-than-finger-stick-in-study.html

          
          
             Medtronic Inc .’s device enabling
diabetics to continuously monitor their blood-sugar levels was
almost three times as effective as standard therapy at
controlling their glucose in a study. Children also benefited.  
 Researchers followed 485 people with Type 1 diabetes for a
year in the largest study to date, finding the Medtronic system
achieved recommended blood-glucose levels in 28 percent of
adults compared with 10 percent using conventional methods,
according to research presented today at an American Diabetes
Association  meeting  in Orlando, Florida. The study, also
published in the  New England Journal of Medicine , compared
patients on the Medtronic device with those who used standard
finger-stick monitors and multiple daily injections of insulin
to manage their blood sugar.  
 The Medtronic system is only part way to the goal of an
“artificial pancreas” that doctors envision: a computer-
controlled device to monitor glucose continuously and release
insulin without any patient effort. Still, the results of
today’s industry-funded study may help drive sales gains of
diabetes devices for Minneapolis-based Medtronic, said  Michael Weinstein , a New York-based analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 “If you can keep blood sugar in the kind of ranges we
achieved in this study, you are going to reduce to a significant
degree the blindness, kidney and heart disease, and other
complications in these patients five, 10 or 20 years later,”
 Richard Bergenstal , a diabetes researcher at  Park Nicollet 
Health Services in Minneapolis and the study’s lead author, said
in an interview.  
 Medtronic Shares  
 Medtronic declined 66 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $36.21 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares
have dropped 18 percent this year.  
 Nearly 24 million Americans have been diagnosed with
diabetes, with as many as 10 percent of those having the form
known as Type 1, where the body doesn’t produce the insulin
needed to regulate blood sugar. The disease contributed to
nearly  234,000  deaths in 2005, according to the  Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention .  
 Early, semi-automated versions of a computer-driven
artificial pancreas may reach the market in four years, said
Aaron Kowalski, an assistant vice president with the  Juvenile
Diabetes Research Foundation  International, a New York-based
advocacy group. Getting a fully automated artificial organ to
market may take a decade, he said.  
 ‘Clear Leader’  
 Medtronic is “the clear leader” in the competition to
develop an automated system for insulin delivery, JPMorgan’s
Weinstein said. Last September, Medtronic began marketing in
Europe its most advanced diabetes device. Known as Paradigm Veo,
the device can automatically halt insulin delivery from a pump
when sensors detect that a patient’s blood sugar has fallen
below safe levels. Severe low blood sugar, or  hypoglycemia , is a
dangerous condition that may cause loss of consciousness,
seizures, comas or even death.  
 Medtronic’s MiniMed Paradigm system used in the study
combines a glucose monitor, a hair-thin wire inserted just
beneath the skin and a tiny transmitter that sends blood-sugar
readings to a mobile phone-size insulin pump that is worn on the
body. The monitor provides glucose readings about every five
minutes to the pump, which delivers insulin through a small soft
tube and a needle stick. The pump can graph blood sugar trends,
allowing the patient to adjust their insulin levels.  
 The U.S. market for continuous glucose monitors may reach
as much as $4 billion if half of the nation’s insulin-dependent
diabetics used the devices,  John Putnam , an analyst with
Capstone Investments Inc. in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, wrote in a
June 15 note to investors.  
 Sales Effect  
 The Medtronic study, known as Star 3, “is potentially
significant to the company’s diabetes franchise and its efforts
to drive the integration of their sensors with the pumps,”
 Michael Weinstein , a New York-based analyst with JPMorgan Chase
& Co. said in June 17 interview.  
 In the study, researchers tracked 329 adults and 156
children ages 7 and older whose Type 1 diabetes wasn’t well
controlled. Among children ages 7 to 18, 44 percent who wore the
monitors achieved blood-sugar recommendations, compared with 20
percent of those on standard therapy, according to the study.  
 Previous research found children didn’t benefit
significantly from the continuous monitors, partly because they
were less likely to wear the devices, said Bergenstal, executive
director of Park Nicollet’s International Diabetes Center.  
 “Now we’ve been able to show these children, adolescents
and adults get about the same benefit,” he said.  
 Demands on Patients  
 The study demonstrates the benefits of continuous blood-
sugar monitors, though some gains may be offset by technology
that demands more of patients, said  Howard Wolpert , a researcher
at the Harvard-affiliated Joslin Diabetes Center in Boston.  
 “The expert guidance received by patients in clinical
trials cannot be readily duplicated in a busy clinical
practice,” Wolpert wrote in an editorial that accompanied the
journal article. For some patients, “the complex task of
inserting and calibrating the sensor, troubleshooting device
malfunctions and responding to alarms can become a burden that
detracts from the benefits of the technology,” he said.  
 Diabetes products contributed $1.2 billion, or nearly 8
percent, of Medtronic’s  revenue  last year. Sales of Medtronic’s
glucose monitors grew 47 percent in 2009 from a year earlier,
according to a Medtronic presentation at a June 7 analyst
meeting in New York. The company doesn’t break out specific
sales figures for the monitors.  
 Regulatory Approval  
 Medtronic’s glucose monitoring system won U.S. approval in
2006. The system is used for patients with Type 1 form of the
disease and Type 2 patients who require insulin, said Amanda
Sheldon, a Medtronic spokeswoman.  
 Type 2 diabetes, which accounts for about 90 percent of
cases, is most common in people ages 40 and older. It is linked
to obesity, physical inactivity and a family history of the
illness, according to the CDC. Diet, exercise, weight loss and
oral medications are the recommend treatments for most, though
some type 2 patients must give themselves regular insulin shots.  
 About 3 million to 4 million people with Type 2 diabetes
who take insulin are also potential users of the glucose
monitoring systems, said  Francine Kaufman , vice president of
global medical affairs with Medtronic’s diabetes unit.  
 Medtronic is competing with other makers of insulin pumps
or round-the-clock glucose monitors including San Diego-based
 DexCom Inc. , Bedford, Massachusetts-based  Insulet  Corp., Abbott
Park, Illinois-based  Abbott Laboratories  and New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        