-- Paulson Group Demands That More Work Be Done on Lehman's Bank Rescue Plan
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2010-09-21T14:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/lehman-liquidation-plan-creates-conflict-paulson-calpers-argue-to-court.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 
creditors led by hedge fund Paulson & Co. said the bankrupt
company’s plan to infuse another $1 billion into its two banks
requires more work.  Before Lehman puts in the cash and other assets, the
creditor group wants to know more about possible liabilities the
banks face from their past involvement in mortgage
securitization, the creditors said in a court filing yesterday.  The group also questioned New York-based Lehman’s plan to
divide the cost of the rescue with affiliates, saying “the
shifting of hundreds of millions of dollars of assets and
liabilities between debtors” was decided by “one conflicted
individual and counsel,” whom it didn’t name.  Creditors working with New York-based Paulson include the
California Public Employees’ Retirement System, King Street
Capital Management LP, Western Asset Management Co. and Fortress
Investment Group LLC, according to a June filing. The group’s 12
members said they held $15.5 billion in claims against the
defunct investment bank.  Lehman said yesterday that it would spend a total of
$1.6 billion including future contributions to save Aurora Bank
FSB and Woodlands Commercial Bank from being seized by
regulators. Lehman, which valued its equity in the two banks at
$1.4 billion, said it plans to close or sell them.  Priority Claims  By spending the money Lehman aims to save creditors from
potential priority claims of $2.7 billion and recoup an
estimated liquidation value of $2 billion, it said in a filing.  The rescue plan is due to be heard tomorrow in court by
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  James Peck . The creditor group said it
decided not to object formally to the proposal after Lehman
agreed to allow the group to “bring any concerns to the court”
later.  Lehman spokeswoman  Kimberly Macleod  said she couldn’t
immediately comment.  Lehman, which filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S. history
in 2008 with debt of $613 billion, has said it may spend another
five years selling assets to pay creditors 15 cents to 44 cents
on the dollar.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 