-- Telefonica's Vivo Bid Stirs Portuguese Hostility Before Vote
-- Paul Tobin
-- 2010-06-29T06:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/telefonica-s-8-billion-vivo-bid-stirs-portuguese-hostility-as-vote-nears.html

          
          
             The vote on  Telefonica SA ’s 6.5
billion-euro ($8 billion) offer for  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA ’s
stake in their Brazilian venture may be too close to call,
turning on how a centuries-old antagonism plays out.  
 Portuguese investors probably control 40 percent to 50
percent of the vote, according to Banco BPI analyst  Pedro Pinto Oliveira , meaning the bid’s success may hinge on whether they
cast their ballot at tomorrow’s meeting along nationalistic
lines. Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  last week asked
state-owned lender Caixa Geral de Depositos SA, with 7.3 percent
of Portugal Telecom, to reject the bid.  
 The Spanish company’s offer may come up against a four-
century-old distrust on the Iberian Peninsula that’s given rise 
to the Portuguese adage that “from Spain, there are neither 
good winds nor good marriages.” The two countries are squaring 
off today too, playing each other in the World Cup soccer match 
to determine which team goes to the quarterfinals.  
 “There is a certain element of hostility there,” said
 Roger Appleyard , head of global credit research at RBC Capital
Markets in London. “It would probably not be the same if the
bid were from a company such as Deutsche Telekom.”  
 Telefonica is offering to buy Portugal Telecom’s stake in
their 50-50 venture  Brasilcel NV , which owns 60 percent of  Vivo
Participacoes SA , Brazil’s largest wireless company. Portugal’s
Socrates has called the stake in the asset in Brazil, a former
Portuguese colony, “strategic.”  
 ‘National Champion’  
 “It’s a national issue,” said  Jorge Felix , president of 
the Portugal Telecom workers’ union. “No one can deny the 
strategic value Vivo has for the growth of Portugal Telecom, or 
the strategic interest for the country of having a company that 
has the capacity to invest and help in its technological
development. It’s as much or more important for Portugal than it
is for Spain.”  
 Portugal Telecom relies on Brazil for growth,  with sales 
from the Latin American country rising 27 percent in the first
quarter, while revenue at home fell 3.6 percent. Yet Portugal
Telecom this month acknowledged that the company can provide
“no assurance” that “similar value will be delivered to the
shareholders for Vivo” should Telefonica’s bid fail.  
 “Portugal wants to remain having a national champion and
that’s all fine, but it does not make rational economic sense to
reject the offer because it’s significantly more than the Vivo
stake value on any measure,” said Appleyard.  
 Telefonica Stake  
 About 36 percent of Portugal Telecom is held by Portuguese
investors, according the  company’s website . U.S. holders own 23
percent, 21 percent is owned by investors based in the U.K. and
Ireland and 19 percent by shareholders in the rest of Europe.  
 Telefonica held 10 percent of Portugal Telecom before
reducing its stake to 2 percent last week. Telefonica still
controls 10 percent of the voting rights, Portugal’s securities
market regulator said yesterday.  Antonio Menezes Cordeiro ,
chairman of the shareholders’ meeting, will decide if the
Spanish company can exercise its voting rights or whether it
would represent a conflict of interest.  
 Institutional Shareholder Services, the influential group
that advises investors, recommended June 14 that Portugal
Telecom shareholders accept Telefonica’s offer. On June 18,
Proxinvest, another shareholder advisory service, recommended
that the bid be rejected.  
 Two large Portuguese shareholders have said they will
reject the bid. Ongoing Strategy Investments SGPS SA, which owns
a 6.8 percent of the Portuguese company and has board
representation, plans to vote against the offer.  
 Close Call  
 The price is not sufficient,  Jose Maria Espirito Santo Ricciardi , chief executive officer of Banco Espirito Santo SA’s
investment banking unit, said in May. Banco Espirito Santo owns
about 8 percent of the stock.  
 “It will be a close call,” said  Teresa Martinho , an
analyst at Banif Investment Bank in Lisbon. “I still think at
this price it will be hard to pass.”  
 Portugal Telecom Chief Executive Officer  Zeinal Bava  has
sought to step up the fight to force his counterpart at
Telefonica,  Cesar Alierta , to put more money on the table.  
 Alierta has refrained from boosting the bid a second time.
Portugal Telecom, which rejected an initial 5.7 billion-euro bid
without a shareholders vote, has said the revised offer “does
not reflect the strategic value of this asset for Telefonica.”  
 Madrid-based Telefonica, which said its first offer was
“fair, full and final,” wants control of Vivo to merge it with
Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA, or Telesp, its fixed-line unit
in Brazil.  
 ‘Regional Rivalry’  
 “The offer is more than reasonable and that should be
enough,” said  Alberto Espelosin , who helps manage about $12
billion at Ibercaja Gestion in Zaragoza, Spain.  
 Still, for some investors, voting on the offer may be less
about reason and more about history. Portugal fought off
invading Spanish armies in the 1600s as well as the 1800s, when
they attacked with Napoleon’s forces. Spain ruled over Portugal
for 60 years between the late 1500s and early 1600s.  
 That history is the backdrop for most of Portugal’s
dealings with its neighbor -- from business to soccer.  
 “It’s a regional rivalry in every aspect,” said  Carlos Queiroz , the Portugal team’s coach, said at a press conference
yesterday in South Africa. “A Portugal-Spain is a special
titbit, like Argentina-Brazil or England-Germany. They are menus
you don’t see every day.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at 
 ptobin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Portuguese prime minister Jose Socrates asked state-owned lender Caixa Geral de Depositos SA, with 7.3 percent of Portugal Telecom, to reject the bid. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A man talks on a mobile phone while walking past a Vivo store in Brasilia, Brazil. Photographer: Adriano Machado/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
