-- Telefonica Raises Bid for Portugal Telecom Vivo Stake
-- Anabela Reis
-- 2010-06-30T07:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/telefonica-increases-it-bid-for-vivo-brazilian-venture-to-8-72-billion.html

          
          
             Telefonica SA  raised its bid a
second time for  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA’s  stake in Brazil’s
largest mobile-phone operator, offering 10 percent more hours
before the Portuguese company’s shareholders vote on the deal.  
 The increased bid of 7.15 billion euros ($8.72 billion) was
announced by Lisbon-based Portugal Telecom in a regulatory
filing. Telefonica, co-owner with Portugal Telecom of the
venture that controls Brazil’s  Vivo Participacoes SA , had
already boosted its offer by 14 percent to 6.5 billion euros on
June 1 to gain support from the shareholders.  
 “It should be enough of an incentive for the Portugal
Telecom shareholders to accept the bid,” said  Peter Lyons , a
New York-based independent analyst who has followed Vivo for
more than three years. “It’s a token gesture to the Portugal
Telecom shareholders.”  
 Telefonica, which had said its first 5.7 billion-euro offer
“fair, full and final,” wants to merge Vivo with its fixed-
line unit in Brazil,  Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA , or
Telesp, to cut costs and offer packages of home-phone and
wireless service. The Spanish company’s 50-50 venture with
Portugal Telecom, Brasilcel NV, was created in 2001 and owns 60
percent of Vivo.  
 Both companies have sought growth in Brazil as markets at
home cooled. Vivo had 30 percent of Brazil’s 179 million
wireless subscriptions at the end of March, according to Anatel,
the country’s phone regulator. Brazil is growing at the fastest
pace in more than two decades even as European demand slows.  
 Portugal Telecom jumped as much as 8.8 percent to 9.03
euros in Lisbon and traded at 8.76 euros at 8:39 a.m. local
time. Telefonica advanced 0.4 percent to 15.18 euros.  
 Wireless, Land Lines  
 The increased offer boosts the chance of shareholder
approval of the sale to 70 percent from 50 percent, Lyons said.
Portugal Telecom officials weren’t immediately available for 
comment.  
 Telefonica’s offer follows America Movil’s $23 billion
takeover this month of Telmex Internacional SAB to combine its
wireless and land-line operations in South America. America
Movil and Telmex Internacional are controlled by Mexican
billionaire  Carlos Slim .  
 Telefonica’s Brazilian unit Telesp’s first-quarter sales
fell 1.4 percent in local-currency terms.  
 Portugal Telecom’s board unanimously rejected Telefonica’s
first offer and said the revised 6.5 billion-euro bid didn’t
reflect the “strategic value of the asset for Telefonica.” The
offer is scheduled to be voted on by Portugal Telecom
shareholders in Lisbon today.  
 Strategic Asset  
 Portugal Telecom investor Ongoing Strategy Investments SGPS
SA, which owns a 6.8 percent stake in the Portuguese company and
has board representation, said on June 14 it planned to vote
against the 6.5 billion-euro offer at the meeting.  
 Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  said June 25 he had told
state-owned Caixa Geral de Depositos to vote against the offer.  
 Portugal Telecom has relied on Brazil for growth, with
sales from the Latin American country rising 27 percent in the
first quarter, while revenue at home fell 3.6 percent. Since
2006, Vivo has overtaken the fixed-line unit as the company’s
biggest revenue contributor, accounting for half of sales in the
first quarter.  
 Domestic investors of Portugal Telecom with board
representation, plus local group Controlinveste Finance
International SA, control about 26 percent of the stock.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anabela Reis  in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Telefonica SA Chairman and CEO Cesar Alierta  
                       
                         
                           Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Telefonica SA Chairman and CEO Cesar Alierta speaks during an interview in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Telefonica SA Chairman and CEO Cesar Alierta speaks during an interview in New York. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
