-- Emerging-Market Stocks Drop Most in Four Weeks on China, India Concerns
-- Garth Theunissen
-- 2010-06-29T21:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/emerging-market-benchmark-stocks-decline-on-china-india-policy-concerns.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks declined,
driving the benchmark index to its biggest drop in four weeks,
on concern central bank efforts in China and India to tame
inflation are slowing the global economic recovery.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  fell 2.8 percent to 924.81
at 5 p.m. in New York, the biggest retreat since May 25. The
Shanghai Composite Index slumped 4.3 percent, the most since May
17, to a 14-month low, while benchmark gauges for Russia,
Brazil, Poland and South Africa dropped by more than 2 percent.
Developing-nation currencies slumped, led by the Brazilian real
and the Chilean peso, while the ruble weakened to a two-week low
against the dollar.  
 The New York-based Conference Board today revised down its
April gauge for the outlook of China’s economy to reflect a
slower pace of expansion, while Citigroup Inc. said exports face
“strong headwinds” in the second half of the year, reducing
prospects of a rebound in Chinese equities. Shares fell in India
after the central bank’s Deputy Governor  K.C. Chakrabarty  said
yesterday borrowing costs may be increased.  
 “The Chinese report is raising concern again about the
sustainability of the global economic recovery,”  Gaelle Blanchard , an emerging-market strategist at Societe Generale SA,
said by telephone from London.  
 The MSCI gauge has dropped 8.5 percent since March, heading
for its first quarterly decline since the three months ended
Dec. 31, 2008, as prospects for tighter monetary policy in the
world’s largest developing nations and Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis weigh on the outlook for growth. The measure is now
 valued  at 11.2 times this year’s earnings estimates, down from
16.6 on Jan. 1, according to daily data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 China Life  
 In Europe, Poland’s benchmark  WIG20 Index  fell the most in
more than a month, losing 2.6 percent, while Hungary’s  BUX Index 
dropped 1.1 percent. Russia’s 30-stock Micex Index retreated 2.9
percent as oil fell below $78 a barrel on concern demand from
China may slow.  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the country’s
biggest lender, slipped 3.3 percent for its biggest slump in a
month on the Shanghai gauge. OAO Lukoil and  Korea Zinc Co. 
tracked a decline in energy and metal prices. The Bombay Stock
Exchange’s benchmark Sensitive Index fell 1.4 percent.  China
Life Insurance Co. , the nation’s largest insurer, dropped 4.2
percent.  
 The  Bovespa stock index  dropped the most since Feb. 4,
retreating 3.5 percent.  Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, retreated 4.8 percent, and  Petroleo Brasileiro SA ,
Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, dropped 2.2 percent.  
 Profit Outlook  
 The leading economic indicator for China rose 0.3 percent
in April, less than the 1.7 percent gain reported June 15, the
Conference Board said. The previous release contained a
“calculation error” for total floor space on which
construction began, the research group said in a statement.  
 “Pessimism is growing about slowing economic and profit
growth,” said  Dai Ming , a fund manager at Shanghai Kingsun
Investment Management & Consulting Co.  
 Analysts are split on whether the People’s Bank of China
will raise interest rates this year from crisis levels after
having increased bank reserve requirements, set a lower target
for lending and eased the currency’s peg to the dollar,
according to a Bloomberg News survey last week.  
 Concern that economic growth may slow in China, the world’s
fastest growing major economy, sent both copper and nickel
prices down by more than 3 percent. Crude oil declined 2.6
percent to $76.24 a barrel in electronic trading in New York.  
 Lukoil, Russia’s biggest non-state oil company, retreated
2.3 percent while  PetroChina Co. , the nation’s largest oil
explorer, fell 2.1 percent in Hong Kong. Korea Zinc, the world’s
second-biggest zinc smelter, lost 2 percent and  PT International
Nickel Indonesia  slid 2.6 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shiyin Chen  in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        