-- Emerson Offers $1.5 Billion for Chloride to Unravel ABB Accord
-- Antonio Ligi
-- 2010-06-29T20:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/emerson-offers-1-5-billion-for-chloride-to-derail-abb-s-planned-takeover.html

          
          
             Emerson Electric Co . offered to buy
 Chloride Group Plc  for 997 million pounds ($1.5 billion) in an
effort to derail  ABB Ltd .’s planned takeover of Britain’s
biggest maker of gear to protect against power outages.  
 Chloride shareholders would receive 375 pence a share,
Emerson said in a statement today. That’s 15 percent higher than
ABB’s 325 pence-a-share bid, announced June 8 and accepted by
London-based Chloride.  
 Emerson took its offer directly to shareholders after
Chloride’s management spurned its approaches. Emerson, based in
St. Louis, outlined annual operating-cost savings of at least 33
million pounds through purchasing and manufacturing efficiencies
as well as reductions in the number of  workers  and plants.  
 “The issue that makes them pay up is the fact that there
was a threat of losing market share globally from ABB buying
Chloride,”  Ian Robertson , an analyst with Seymour Pierce Ltd.,
said in a telephone interview today. “ABB suddenly joins, from
having not been a player in secure power.”  
 Chloride, Britain’s largest maker of backup power
equipment, said in a regulatory filing that Emerson’s proposal
is “superior” to ABB’s offer. A range of options must be
considered before there’s another announcement, Zurich-based ABB
said in a statement.  
 Chloride  rose  past the offer price, climbing as much as
38.6 pence, or 11 percent, to 387.1 pence in London and valuing
the company at 1.02 billion pounds.  ABB  fell 5 percent to 19.02
Swiss francs in Zurich, cutting its value to 44.3 billion
francs.  
 Keeping ABB Out  
 “The people who will pay the most are Emerson,” Robertson
said. “For Emerson, it’s not just what they gain from Chloride,
it’s what do they also make sure of by closing the door on
ABB.”  
 Should Emerson win Chloride, it will become the  largest 
supplier of critical power systems in Europe, Robertson said. He
added that it’s now the fourth largest.  
 Emerson Chairman  David Farr  said in April that acquiring
Chloride would help the company compete with Schneider Electric
SA and Eaton Corp. in the market for uninterruptible power-
supply gear. Emerson  bought  Avocent Corp., a maker of
information-technology management products, for $1.2 billion
last year.  
 Chloride, which provides power equipment to clients
including the London Underground, Ikea and Barclays Plc
according to its website, rebuffed Emerson’s initial offer of
255 pence a share in 2008, as well as a 275-pence bid in April.  
 Other Acquisitions  
 “Emerson is already strong in this area,” Vontobel
analyst  Panagiotis Spiliopoulos  said in a telephone interview.
“They would clearly strengthen their position. For ABB it’s
probably more important to get it than for Emerson.”  
 ABB won’t be constrained by ability to pay for Chloride,
Spiliopoulos said. The question is whether the Swiss company can
justify the strategic move into a new area, he said.  
 ABB’s cash  reserves  swelled to $9.4 billion in March. Even
after the $1 billion purchase of Atlanta-based software maker
Ventyx Inc. in June, buying Chloride and a potential $1 billion
purchase of additional shares in an Indian subsidiary, ABB would
have cash reserves of $6.2 billion, Moody’s Investors Service
analyst  Sabine Renner  and colleagues said in a note on June 8.  
 ‘Surprised’ by Price  
 Nigel Coe, an analyst with Deutsche Bank AG in New York,
said he was “surprised” by the amount of Emerson’s offer. The
company is counting on cost savings of 33 million pounds, or 10
percent of Chloride’s sales, compared with typical savings of 6
percent to 8 percent of sales for an acquisition, Coe said in a
report today.  
 “It is clear that Chloride is viewed as a critical
acquisition by Emerson, but shareholders may not like the
price,” he said.  
 Emerson fell $1.56, or 3.5 percent, to $43.29 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
increased 1.6 percent this year.  
 Emerson said April 26 that it intends Chloride to serve as
its European Network Power Systems headquarters and “expects a
net addition of skilled jobs in the UK.”  
 The increased offer means “Emerson can no longer be
certain that a combination with Chloride will result in a net
addition of skilled jobs in the U.K.,” Farr said in today’s
statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
 Antonio Ligi  in Zurich at 
 aligi@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Emerson offers $1.5 billion for Chloride  
                       
                         
                           Emerson Electric Co./Via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Emerson chairman David N. Farro. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Emerson chairman David N. Farro. Source: Emerson Electric Co./Via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
