-- Emirates Lobbies With Letter to German Government in Fight for New Routes
-- Andreas Cremer
-- 2010-06-29T15:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/emirates-lobbies-with-letter-to-german-government-in-fight-for-new-routes.html

          
          
             Emirates, the biggest airline by
international traffic, told German officials and lawmakers that
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG  made “false and misleading” comments
about its plan to fly from Dubai to Berlin and Stuttgart.  
 In a letter dated June 15 addressed to the  Transport
Ministry  and members of the Parliament, Emirates details what it
says are 19 “errors and distortions,” including the nature of
its business model, the status of its landing rights in Germany
and the frequency of flights there.  
 “Lufthansa believes that aero-political protectionism
creates the biggest possible gain for its business interests,”
Andrew Parker, senior vice president at Dubai-based Emirates,
wrote in the letter along with 12 pages of supporting documents
obtained by Bloomberg News. “Lufthansa has all along been
opposed to our engagement in Germany.”  
 Emirates has a “strong interest” in serving Berlin and
Stuttgart and rejects as “unfair” demands from Lufthansa for
it to give up two of four existing routes to Hamburg, Munich,
Frankfurt and Dusseldorf, the document says. The German
government has yet to grant approval for the route plan,  Tim Clark , the airline’s president, said in a June 7 interview.  
 “This aggressive lobbying against Lufthansa clearly shows
that the business of Emirates Airlines is designed to divert
traffic from Germany to Dubai,” said  Peter Schneckenleitner , a
spokesman for the Cologne, Germany-based carrier.  
 Emirates is clashing with Lufthansa three weeks after
underpinning a sixfold jump in passenger traffic since 2000 with
an order for 32 Airbus SAS A380s valued at $11 billion that will
give it 70 more superjumbos than any other airline.  
 Ingo Strater , a spokesman for the German Transport
Ministry, declined to comment. Will Lofberg, a Dubai-based
spokesman for Emirates, confirmed the content of the letter, and
referred questions to Parker.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        