-- Canada Stocks Pare Quarterly Loss as Gold, Energy Producers' Shares Rise
-- Matt Walcoff
-- 2010-06-30T21:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/enbridge-ivanhoe-mines-shaw-communications-canadian-equity-preview.html

          
          
             Canadian stocks  rose, paring the
biggest quarterly  decline  since 2008 in the main equity index,
as energy and gold producers rallied.  
 Barrick Gold Corp., the world’s  largest producer  of the
metal, gained 1.9 percent as signs that the economic recovery
remains fragile boosted the metal. Canadian Natural Resources
Ltd., Canada’s second-biggest energy company by market value,
advanced 0.8 percent as natural gas futures climbed.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  rose 30.59
points, or 0.3 percent, to 11,294.42 after falling 3 percent
yesterday. The stock benchmark has declined 4 percent this month
and 6.2 percent in the second quarter, the biggest slide since
the collapse of the U.S. mortgage market triggered a 24 percent
drop in the benchmark in the final quarter of 2008.  
 “It’s logical we’ll get some bounce,” said  Doug Davis ,
chief executive officer of Davis-Rea Ltd. in Toronto, which
manages C$400 million ($378 million). “Our commodity-based
economy has been doing well. People have been feeling better
about things. There’s a fair amount of confidence in Canada.”  
 The  S&P/TSX  fell the most in a year yesterday after the
U.S. Conference Board lowered its index of Chinese leading
economic indicators and commodity futures retreated. The stock
benchmark has dropped 5.4 percent since June 21 as the sales of
new and existing U.S. homes failed to meet economists’
estimates, speculation of a European sovereign debt default
increased and energy futures declined on weather forecasts.  
 Most  energy producers  advanced as natural gas futures
climbed with forecasts for hot weather in the U.S. Northeast for
next week.  
 Production Estimate  
 Canadian Natural  rose 0.8 percent to C$35.33 after
increasing its estimate for June production from the Horizon oil
sands project. Enbridge Inc., the country’s biggest pipeline
company, gained 2.2 percent to C$49.58 after saying it will
invest $500 million in the Cedar Point Wind Energy Project in
Colorado. Cenovus Energy Inc., the oil company spun off from
EnCana Corp. in December, rallied 2 percent to C$27.40.  
 Gold-mining companies climbed as the metal traded near an
all-time high. An ADP Employer Services survey showed U.S.
employers added fewer new jobs in June than most economists in a
Bloomberg survey forecast, and a U.S. Federal Reserve Bank
president said the recovery faces risks from the European debt
crisis.  
 Barrick increased 1.9 percent to C$48.32. Goldcorp Inc.,
the No. 2 Canadian company in the industry by revenue, advanced
1.6 percent to C$46.61.  
 Wireless Carriers  
 Rogers Communications Inc., Canada’s largest wireless
carrier, fell for a fifth day, slipping 1 percent to C$34.78,
after saying it will offer an unlimited talk and texting plan.
Desjardins Securities analyst  Maher Yaghi  told clients that of
the three largest wireless carriers in the country, Rogers is
likely to see the biggest share-price impact from the
introduction of such potentially margin-shrinking plans in the
Canadian market, while BCE Inc. will be the least affected.  
 BCE, the country’s  biggest phone company , rose 2 percent to
C$31.06.  
 Westport Innovations Inc.  led the S&P/TSX with a 4.4
percent climb to C$16.75. The maker of automotive engines that
run on alternative fuel was raised to “outperform” from
“market perform” at Northland Securities Inc.  
 Magna International Inc., Canada’s largest auto-parts
maker, jumped 3.7 percent to C$70.13, erasing most of a 5.8
percent loss from yesterday. Loblaws Cos., the country’s biggest
grocer, increased 1.8 percent to C$38.61 to end an eight-day
streak of declines, the longest since 2007.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        