-- Energy-Hedging Patent, 3M-Avery, Amazon, Wimbledon: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-06-29T11:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/energy-hedging-patent-3m-avery-amazon-wimbledon-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             The  U.S. Supreme Court  ruled against
two men who sought to patent a system for hedging energy trades,
while leaving the door open to allowing limited legal
protections for registering business methods.  
 The ruling in the so-called Bilski case was the first time
in 29 years that the court voted on what types of innovations
qualify for legal protection. While the decision was unanimous,
the justices divided 5-4 in their reasoning, with the majority
declining to bar all patents on methods of conducting business.  
 The justices voting in the majority said there needs to be
a flexible test for emerging technologies. The case drew record
interest for a business dispute before the highest U.S. court,
with  Microsoft Corp.  and  Morgan Stanley  among dozens of
companies filing briefs. The fight split industries, dividing
companies that rely on their own intellectual property from
those aiming to head off expensive infringement lawsuits.  
 The dispute involved Bernard L. Bilski and Rand A. Warsaw,
founders of a Pittsburgh company that sells customized consumer
energy products. The Supreme Court was reviewing a decision by
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit against Bilski
that said methods can be patented only if they have some
physical component, through either a connection to a machine or
their power to transform an item into a different state.  
 Writing for the Supreme Court, Justice  Anthony Kennedy  said
the federal circuit’s standard was only a “useful and important
clue” and isn’t the sole test that should be used in
determining whether a process is eligible for a patent. He did
say business methods “raise special problems in terms of
vagueness and suspect validity.”  
 The decision leaves it up to the federal circuit, which
specializes in patent law, to create a more flexible test.  
 Companies that argued that the lower court standard was too
restrictive included  Bank of America Corp. ,  Medtronic Inc. ,
Novartis Corp.,  Palm Inc.  and Accenture Plc. Small software,
financial services and electronic commerce companies also backed
broad patent rights. Another supporter was Ananda Chakrabarty,
the scientist whose patent 4,259,444, was the subject of intense
debate about the patentability of bioengineered organisms.  
 Those urging restrictions on method patents included
Microsoft, Morgan Stanley,  Google Inc.  and  J.C. Penney Co.  The
Obama administration also advocated a high standard for granting
method patents, as did Bloomberg LP, the New York-based parent
company of Bloomberg News.  
 Patents can be granted for machines, articles of
manufacture, compositions of matter, and processes. It is the
definition of a “process” that was the subject of the dispute.  
 Justice  John Paul Stevens , joined by Justices  Ruth Bader Ginsburg ,  Steven Breyer  and  Sonia Sotomayor , said that “a claim
that merely describes a method of doing business does not
qualify as a process” that is eligible for a patent.  
 The case is Bilski v. Kappos, 08-964.  
 3M Sues Avery Dennison Over Patents for Reflective Road Signs  
 3M Co. , the maker of 55,000 products including Post-it
Notes and Scotch tape, filed a patent-infringement lawsuit
against  Avery Dennison Corp.  over reflective sheeting used on
stop signs and traffic cones.  
 3M sells its reflective sheeting under the name Diamond
Grade DG, which it says is “used around the world to improve
roadway safety.” Avery Dennison is selling a similar product
that violates 13 patents, according to the 3M complaint filed
June 25 in Minneapolis.  
 The lawsuit targets the OmniCube T-11500 Prismatic
Reflective Film sold by Pasadena, California-based Avery. The
market that includes traffic signs, construction work zone
devices and commercial vehicle applications in the U.S. is $250
million, and fluctuates based on government funding, said  Donna Fleming Runyon , a spokeswoman for St. Paul, Minnesota-based 3M.  
 “3M pioneered the development of retroreflective
technology more than 60 years ago,” Runyon said in a telephone
interview. “We continue to invest in developing new
technologies to meet the changing traffic-control needs and
visual requirements of motorists. This lawsuit is about
protecting our investments.”  
 3M seeks a court ruling to prevent Avery from using the 3M
inventions, plus unspecified cash compensation.  
 Stephanie Martin, a spokeswoman for Avery, said the company
doesn’t comment on litigation.  
 Avery also targeted 3M, telling the company it needs to
obtain a license to two Avery patents, according to the
complaint. 3M said it’s seeking a court ruling that its Diamond
Grade product doesn’t infringe any Avery patents or that it has
a right to use the technology without paying royalties.  
 This isn’t the only patent dispute between the companies.
Avery accused 3M in May of infringing a patent for sheets of
removable labels, and in 2007 the companies settled a dispute
over adhesives to put images on the sides of buses and trucks.  
 3M is represented by  John C. Adkisson  and  Ann N. Cathcart 
Chaplin of Boston’s  Fish & Richardson PC ,  Courtland L. Reichman 
and  Natasha H. Moffitt  of Atlanta’s  King & Spalding LLP , and in-
house counsel Kevin H. Rhodes and William. D. Miller.  
 The new case is 3M Co. v. Avery Dennison Corp., 10cv2630,
U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota.  
 Amazon Gets Patent on Dynamic Pricing of Web-Resource Use  
 Amazon.com Inc. , the world’s biggest online retailer,
received a patent related to dynamic pricing of Web-resources
use.  
 Patent 7,743,001, which was issued June 22, covers the
management of computing resources by those who use them.  
 The patent takes note of the variable demand for Web
services at different times of day. A company whose customers
order goods or services via the Internet “may wish to assure
that delay experienced by customers during ordering is
maintained below a certain level even during periods of high
customer order volume,” according to the patent.  
 The demand on Web services for such a company “may exhibit
seasonal variations or long term trends,” with demand varying
“due to random or singular events.”  
 Price for computing services may be increased or decreased
in respond to demand, according to the patent, which also covers
the method of providing a price of those services to the
customer.  
 One of the named inventors on the patent is Jeffrey P.
Bezos, Seattle-based Amazon’s chief executive officer.  
 In 2000, Boston’s BountyQuest -- an Internet business that
offered cash for evidence in patent disputes -- offered a cash
bounty to those who could successfully challenge Amazon’s patent
5,960,411, for its one-click ordering method. Bezos was a
founder of that company, which has since closed down.  
 The Amazon CEO was also a named inventor on that patent,
which was issued in September 1999. In March 2010 the U.S.
Patent Office  confirmed that patent  after reexamining it.  
 Amazon applied for the new patent in June 2005, and was
assisted by  Meyertons, Hood, Kivlin, Kowert & Goetzel PC  of
Austin, Texas.  
 FIFA Not Ready to Entertain Technology to Aid Referees’ Calls  
 Technology to prevent the kind of wrong calls seen in
recent World Cup games between England and Germany and Argentina
and Mexico exists, has been tested successfully and is covered
by at least one U.S. patent.  
 Although soccer’s ruling body says it’s still not
interested in using technology to help referees make correct
calls, the English and Scottish soccer associations had proposed
tests of tennis-style computer analysis of goals or the use of
microchips in match balls.  
 A system with an implanted chip is being developed by
 Adidas AG  and Cairos Technologies AG, a technology company based
in Karlsbad, Germany. In 2007 the Cairos/Addidas technology was
tested at a Club World Cup match in Japan between Mexico’s
 Pachuca  and Tunisia’s  Etoile Sportive du Sahel .  
 FIFA said in December of that year it wouldn’t approve the
technology for wider use in other tournaments until it could be
proven to be 100 percent accurate.  
 Cairos received patent 7,719,469 in May 2010 for the use of
linear Doppler shifts to determine position measurement.  
 The technology uses linear receives on each side of the
playing field, with two antennas for each receiver. According to
the patent, the technology could also be used for footballs.  
 Hawkeye Innovations Ltd., the maker of electronics used to
review line calls in tennis, said in 2009 that although it had a
system with “100 percent accuracy,” it wouldn’t test it
further because of soccer officials’ rejection.  
 In England’s 4-1 defeat by Germany, Frank Lampard was
denied a goal in the June 27 game even though television replays
showed that his shot crossed the goal line. Had it counted,
England would have pulled level at 2-2 in Bloemfontein, South
Africa.  
 “I am in favor of goal-line technology, especially after
tonight,” Lampard told reporters. “The ball crossed the line,
it was over, it was so obvious. If we had got back to 2-2 at
that moment, it could have been different.”  
 Argentina took the lead against Mexico last night when
Carlos Tevez headed  Lionel Messi’s  pass into the net from an
offside position. Mexican players protested and the referee
consulted his assistant before allowing the goal to stand.  
 Jerome Valcke, secretary general of the International
Football Association Board, said June 26 that soccer’s governing
body wouldn’t consider the use of video technology to review
referees’ calls.  
 Valcke said that while additional assistants behind each
goal may be used at the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, the use of
video “is definitely not on the table.”  
 He said the one thing FIFA is discussing is “two
additional assistants to support referees to make decision-
making easier and to have more eyes helping him to make such
decisions.”  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 ASCAP Fee Demands Close Down Small Business ‘Open-Mike’ Nights  
 Copyright fee demands are causing bookstores and coffee
shops in southern Massachusetts to cancel open-mike nights,
SouthCoastToday.com  reported.   
 The American Society of Composters Authors and Publishers,
Broadcast Music Inc., and the European group known as SESAC are
requiring fees from the small businesses, saying they must pay
for performance licenses when music is performed publicly, the
newspaper reported.  
 One café owner told ASCAP the musicians were playing their
own music rather than compositions from the society’s members
and said she was told that as long as the musicians used
instruments, the fee had to be paid, according to the newspaper.  
 Fees from the three music-rights groups cost the businesses
at least $900 annually, the newspaper reported.  
 Kohl’s Sued for Infringement by L.A. Printex Industries  
 Kohl’s Corp.,  a chain of department stores aimed at middle-
income customers, was sued for copyright infringement by a
California textile designer.  
 L.A. Printex Industries Inc. of Vernon, California, said
the Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin-based retailer is selling
garments made from fabric that’s a knock-off of its designs.
Codefendant with Kohl’s is TJ Sportswear & Sales Inc. of Los
Angeles and three unnamed others.  
 The action is one of 11 copyright-infringement suits the
textile company filed in Los Angeles federal court since Jan. 1.
 Ross Stores Inc. ,  Sears Holdings Corp.  and  TJX Cos.  are among
the defendants in the other cases.  According to  apparelnews.net,
L.A. Printex filed more than 200 similar suits in the past five
years.  
 In September 2009 a jury in Los Angeles awarded L.A.
Printex more than $230,000 in an infringement case against
Target Corp. and four other defendants.  
 That case was L.A. Printex Industries Inc. v. Target Corp.,
2:08-cv-00075-ODW-PLA, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  
 In the suit against Kohl’s, filed June 23, the textile
company asked for awards of attorney fees and litigation costs,
money damages and the defendants’ profits derived from their
alleged infringement. The company also seeks a court order
barring further infringement of its design.  
 L.A. Printex is represented by Scott A. Burroughs and
Stephen M. Doniger of  Doniger Burroughs APC  of Culver City,
California.  
 The case is L.A. Printex Industries Inc. v. Kohl’s Corp.,
2:10-cv-04653-VBF-PLA, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Wimbledon Spells Out Rules to Avoid ‘Ambush Marketing’ Campaigns  
 The  All England Lawn Tennis Club , site of the Wimbledon
tennis tournament, has a set of specific rules with reference to
so-called “ambush marketing” -- unauthorized display of non-
sponsors’ trademarks -- posted on  the official Wimbledon
website .  
 At FIFA’s World Cup competition in South Africa earlier
this month, officials filed charges against organizers of an
ambush marketing campaign for Dutch brewer Bavaria NV. Charges
related to orange dresses 30 women revealed once they were in
the stands for a game were later dropped after FIFA reached a
settlement with Bavaria, which was not an official sponsor.  
 The All England Club bars “any objects/clothing bearing
political statements or commercial identification for ‘ambush
marketing’” from the grounds of the club in London’s Wimbledon
suburb.  
 In 2006 a spectator had two containers of yogurt and two
bottles of chocolate milkshake confiscated because they
contained visible labels, the U.K.’s Mail  reported .  
 Ticketholders are now entitled to bring “their own branded
food and beverage” onto the grounds, and may wear “branded
clothing purchased for normal personal use,” according to rules
posted on the website. The club says it does ban such goods as
free sun hats, rain capes, umbrellas, suntan creams, radios and
water bottles “bearing heavily branded commercial messages.”  
 At the 2009 tournament, tubes of  Procter & Gamble Co. ’s
Pringles potato chips in containers  made to resemble tennis ball 
cans were handed out to spectators. The cans, which were labeled
“these are not tennis balls,” weren’t confiscated because the
club has no sponsorship deal with a comparable product, the
U.K.’s Telegraph  reported .  
 Among the sponsors whose trademarks are seen on the
official Wimbledon website are  HSBC Holdings Plc. ,  International
Business Machines Corp. ,  Polo Ralph Lauren Corp. ,  Diageo Plc ’s
Blossom Hill wines,  Hertz Global Holdings Inc.  and  Nestle SA ’s
Haagen-Dazs ice cream and Nescafe coffee.  
 In the U.S., the club has registered 19 trademarks of its
own, according to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office. Registered marks include “The Wimbledon Experience,”
“Breakfast at Wimbledon,” and “The Championships Wimbledon.”  
 The Wimbledon tournament runs through July 4.  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        