-- Merck Doesn't Have to Refund Louisiana for Vioxx Prescriptions, Judge Says
-- Phil Milford
-- 2010-06-29T17:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/merck-doesn-t-have-to-refund-louisiana-for-vioxx-prescriptions-judge-says.html

          
          
             Merck & Co.  doesn’t have to refund
money the state of Louisiana paid for the withdrawn Vioxx
painkiller, a federal judge ruled.  
 Managers of Louisiana’s state-sponsored health programs had
no power under state law to halt reimbursements for Vioxx
prescriptions, even had they known that Merck misled them about
the drug’s heart-attack risk, U.S. District Judge  Eldon Fallon 
in New Orleans ruled today.  
 Lousiana “did not carry its burden that, had the state
possessed different clinical information about Vioxx, it would
have sought to restrict Vioxx Medicaid reimbursements
entirely,” wrote Fallon, who heard the case without a jury. It
was the first of more than a dozen refund cases filed by states
over Vioxx to go to trial.  
 “We’re satisfied with the court’s decision and believe
that the evidence showed that Merck acted appropriately by
labeling Vioxx under the direction of the FDA and according to
the evolving science available at the time it was on the
market,” said Ron Rogers, a Merck spokesman, in an interview.  
 “We’re shocked and disappointed in the judge’s decision,”
said James Dugan, one of the state’s lawyers. “We’re going
to meet with the attorney general’s office to discuss our
appellate rights.”  
 Medical Risks  
 Merck  pulled Vioxx off the market in 2004 after a study
showed the drug doubled the risk of heart attacks and strokes.
The company won 11 of 16 Vioxx lawsuits at trial before agreeing
in 2007 to create a $4.85 billion settlement fund to resolve
thousands of injury claims over the drug. State officials
alleged Merck executives distorted Vioxx’s health risks in
medical literature, advertisements and communications with
doctors.  
 Louisiana sought to recover more than $20 million in the
state’s case, including more than $11 million in damages, along
with its litigation expenses and attorneys fees.  
 Merck said in a March 30  regulatory filing  that 13 state
attorneys general have sued the company seeking to recover funds
paid to cover Vioxx prescriptions. The drugmaker also faces
refund suits filed by five counties and New York City over the
medicine, according to the filing.  
 Lawyers for Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck, the
second-largest U.S. drugmaker, argued in the case that Louisiana
officials knew about Vioxx’s health risks and lacked the power
under state law to make the drug ineligible for reimbursement.  
 Louisiana officials countered that Louisiana’s statutes
provided enough authority to cut off coverage for a defective
drug to protect citizens.  
 Merck fell 38 cents to $35.56 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading at 12:28 p.m.  
 The Louisiana case is State of Louisiana v. Merck, Sharp &
Dohme Corp., 05-3700, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        