-- Turkey Calls for U.S. Leadership on Israel's Raid on Gaza Strip Flotilla
-- Benjamin Harvey
-- 2010-06-29T07:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/erdogan-calls-for-u-s-leadership-in-aftermath-of-israel-flotilla-raid.html

          
          
             The U.S. should take a leading role
in dealing with the aftermath of Israel’s raid on a flotilla of
aid ships last month during which nine people were killed,
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said.  
 “The U.S. administration should take ownership of the
situation because there was an American involved,” Erdogan said
in an interview with PBS television’s Charlie Rose aired late
yesterday. He referred to Furkan Dogan, a 19-year-old American-
Turkish dual citizen who was killed on board one of the ships.
The eight others killed on the same vessel were Turkish
citizens.  
 Erdogan said Turkey remained “a friend to Israel,” before
adding that the coalition government under Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  was “the biggest barrier to peace”
in the Middle East.  
 Turkey has been pushing for an international inquiry into
Israel’s May 31 raid on the flotilla, which was carrying
humanitarian supplies to the Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip, and has
threatened to cut off ties with Israel if it does not respond to
Turkish demands.  
 Turkey, which has for decades been Israel’s strongest ally
in the Middle East, has said a formal apology, compensation for
victims and the immediate return of vessels seized in the raid
are conditions for the normalization of relations between the
two countries.  
 Hamas Takeover  
 Israel imposed its blockade of Gaza after the Islamic Hamas
movement ousted forces loyal to Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas ’s Fatah group and seized full control of the
territory in 2007. Hamas, which won Palestinian parliamentary
elections the previous year, is considered a terrorist
organization by the U.S., the European Union and Israel.  
 Erdogan said that Hamas should have been given a chance to
rule. “Elections were held, and Hamas won the election,” he
said. “They should have been given the opportunity to govern,
because when that didn’t happen, there was a loss of confidence,
trust, and that created problems.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        