-- Merkel's Candidate Fails to Win Presidency in First-Round Vote
-- Rainer Buergin
-- 2010-06-30T16:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/merkel-faces-test-of-leadership-as-assembly-votes-for-german-presidency.html

          
          
             Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s candidate
for the German presidency,  Christian Wulff , failed to get enough
votes to win the post in a second round, as delegates used the
secret ballot to signal their frustration with her coalition.  
 The vote marks “a serious shot across the bow for
Merkel,” Richard Stoess, a political scientist at the Free
University in Berlin, said in a phone interview. While the
second-round result won’t bring down Merkel’s government, it’s
“a disaster for her image and her standing, given the
overwhelming majority the coalition has in the assembly.”  
 Wulff, 51, the prime minister of  Lower Saxony  and a deputy
leader of Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union party, got 615
votes in the 1,244-member assembly of federal lawmakers and
state delegates convened in Berlin to elect the largely
ceremonial president. That’s less than the 623 votes needed to
win, though Merkel commands a 21-seat majority in the assembly.  
 Two of 13 German  presidential elections  since 1949 have
gone to three rounds, the last time in 1994. The government-
backed candidate won in all cases. The rules change in the third
round, with the candidate getting the most votes winning.  
 The benchmark  DAX Index  fell after the first-round vote in
Berlin failed to yield a winner before rebounding to gain 0.2
percent to 5965.52. The third round was due to begin at about
6:45 p.m. local time.  
 The election, called after the surprise resignation last
month of the incumbent,  Horst Koehler , piles pressure on Merkel
as coalition bickering over policies from health care to tax
cuts saps public backing for the government as it grapples with
Europe’s debt crisis.  
 ‘Growing Dissatisfaction’  
 Wulff’s failure to win in the first two rounds “is a clear
expression of growing dissatisfaction in the government,”
 Thorsten Polleit , the chief economist for Germany at Barclays
Capital, said in a note.  
 Joachim Gauck , 70, a pro-democracy activist and pastor from
former communist East Germany who was nominated by the
opposition Social Democratic Party and the Greens, won 490
votes.  
 A third candidate backed by the Left Party, Lukrezia
Jochimsen, got 123 votes. Jochimsen, known as Luc, is the
spokeswoman for cultural affairs in the Left Party’s
parliamentary group. Born in 1936, she worked as a journalist
for German public radio and television between 1975 and 2001,
according to her  Internet  site.  
 ‘Strengthen her Hand’  
 Analysts are divided on the repercussions if Wulff fails to
win.  Gary Smith , executive director of the American Academy in
Berlin, said that if some members of the Free Democratic Party,
Merkel’s coalition partner, followed through on their threat to
spurn Wulff and vote for Gauck, “then it’s a problem for the
coalition, not for Merkel.”  
 “It would actually strengthen her hand in the coalition
because the chaos would clearly be with the FDP,” Smith said by
phone.  
 Support for Merkel’s coalition is hovering at historic
lows. Combined backing for the chancellor’s bloc and the Free
Democrats was 36 percent in a Forsa poll released yesterday,
more than 12 points below its tally in the September election.
The FDP, which entered government with 14.6 percent support, now
has just 4 percent backing, below the 5 percent threshold needed
to win seats in parliament.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel speaks during a press conference following the European Summit meeting at EU Council headquarters in Brussels. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's David Tweed reports on the ballot to elect Germany’s largely ceremonial president, a vote that will be the biggest test of Chancellor Angela Merkel's second term and may rattle her coalition. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
