-- Tesla Gains 41% After 1st U.S. Automaker IPO in 54 Years
-- Lee Spears
-- 2010-06-29T21:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/tesla-motors-raises-226-million-in-first-ipo-of-u-s-carmaker-in-54-years.html

          
          
             Tesla Motors Inc. , the electric-car
company that hasn’t posted a profit, rallied 41 percent after
raising $226 million in the first initial public offering of a
U.S. automaker in a half century.  
 The maker of the $109,000 electric Roadster bought by  Brad Pitt  and  George Clooney  climbed $6.89 to $23.89 in Nasdaq Stock
Market  trading , the biggest gain for a U.S. IPO since March. The
Palo Alto, California-based company sold 13.3 million shares at
$17 each after offering them for $14 to $16, according to a
statement and a Securities and Exchange Commission  filing . Tesla
will use proceeds for factories and possible acquisitions.  
 The IPO was the first by an American car company since  Ford
Motor Co.  in 1956. Chief Executive Officer  Elon Musk , who has
staked his personal fortune to Tesla after making almost $300
million selling PayPal Inc. and Zip2 Corp., is using the
offering to fund a startup that expects to lose more money in
the next two years as it tries to build a battery-powered sedan.  
 “Certainly in the short run, people like this story,”
said  Thiemo Lang , who helps oversee about $1.2 billion in energy
and clean-energy investments at Sustainable Asset Management AG
in Zurich and bought shares in the IPO. “You always have the
short-term hype, but in the long term, the company has to show
they’re able to execute.”  
 S&P 500’s Slump  
 Tesla rallied even as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
tumbled  3.1 percent  on concern over weakening growth in China
and lower-than-estimated U.S. consumer confidence. The sale also
came after at least 35 companies worldwide postponed or withdrew
IPOs since the start of May as the European debt crisis sent the
S&P 500 down as much as 14 percent from its 2010 high.  
 The first-day advance was the second-biggest for a U.S. IPO
this year after  Financial Engines Inc. , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Palo Alto, California-based
investment adviser co-founded by Nobel laureate  William Sharpe 
increased 44 percent on March 16.  
 Tesla raised 27 percent more than it originally sought
after boosting the number of shares it was offering yesterday to
13.3 million from 11.1 million.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , Morgan
Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. of New York, along with
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG, led Tesla’s offering.  
 “Tesla has been the first good sign of an IPO in a long
time,” said Darren Fabric, Chicago-based managing director of
IPOX Capital Management LLC, which oversees the Direxion
Long/Short Global IPO Fund. “There’s really no comparables to
it. People may want to own it just for the reason that it’s the
first U.S. car company that’s gone public in 54 years.”  
 Obama’s Support  
 Electric-car technology has been supported by U.S. policy
makers including President  Barack Obama  as a way to reduce the
nation’s oil use and dependence on foreign energy sources. Obama
set a goal of getting 1 million plug-in hybrids and electric
cars on U.S. roads by 2015 and subsidized Tesla with a $465
million loan from the Department of Energy to develop its cars.  
 Musk, Tesla’s biggest shareholder, co-founded PayPal, the
online payment company now owned by San Jose, California-based
 EBay Inc. , and is CEO of Space Exploration Technologies Inc., a
Hawthorne, California-based company that builds spacecraft.  
 He has spent more than $70 million of his own money on
Tesla while selling about 1,000 Roadsters to film stars,
 musicians  and battery-car advocates.  
 ‘Just Not Possible’  
 The company would already be profitable if it only made the
Roadster and supplied powertrains, Musk said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With  Betty Liu .” Tesla is
expanding “3000 percent” over two to three years as it
develops the Model S sedan and aims to remain independent.  
 “It’s just not possible for the company as a whole to be
profitable with that rate of expansion,” Musk said.  
 While the automaker has burned through $230.5 million in
 cash  and posted losses in every quarter since it was founded in
July 2003, Tesla attracted Toyota City, Japan-based  Toyota Motor
Corp. , the world’s largest automaker, which planned to buy $50
million of shares alongside the IPO.  
 Tesla and  Toyota  said they may cooperate on electric-
vehicle development, though they haven’t signed agreements to do
so, filings show. Mountain View, California-based Google Inc.’s
founders  Larry Page  and  Sergey Brin , the government of Abu Dhabi
and  Daimler AG  of Stuttgart, Germany, are also investors.  
 Tesla’s net loss in the first quarter almost doubled to
$29.5 million from a year earlier. The  deficit  is more than half
the $55.7 million the carmaker lost in all of 2009.  
 Relative Value  
 At the original midpoint price of $15, Tesla was valued at
5.5 times its net tangible  assets , a measure of shareholder
equity that excludes assets that can’t be sold in liquidation.
That’s triple the median 1.82 times for automotive companies
globally, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Tesla will use the IPO and the federal loan to develop its
lithium-ion battery-powered Model S, a $57,400 electric sedan
intended to travel 160 miles (257 kilometers) per charge, by
2012. The company plans to produce at least 20,000 units of the
Model S each year.  
 Under terms of the federal loan, Musk and certain
affiliates must retain 65 percent of their stock in  Tesla  for a
year after completing the Model S project. Musk’s divorce
proceedings won’t result in the combined stake falling below 65
percent or have a material impact on his ability to serve as
CEO, according to filings.  
 Nissan, GM  
 As Tesla focuses on creating a niche for premium-priced
electric vehicles, Yokohama, Japan-based  Nissan Motor Co.  and
General Motors Co. are developing battery-powered vehicles to
appeal to mainstream buyers.  
 Nissan’s  electric Leaf hatchback, which has a range of 100
miles, goes on sale in the U.S. later this year with a base
price of $32,780, or a third that of Tesla’s Roadster.  
 GM plans to introduce the Chevrolet Volt electric car in
November. The Detroit-based automaker is preparing for an IPO
that may sell 20 percent of the Treasury’s stake in the company
and reduce the U.S. to a minority owner, two people familiar
with the plan said last week.  
 Nissan Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said the
automaker has received more than 20,000 orders for the Leaf
globally, and is prepared to build as many as 500,000 electric
cars annually by 2012. Japan’s third-largest automaker reported
 revenue  of $81.1 billion in its fiscal year ended March 31.  
 Tesla had revenue of $112 million last year.  
 “It’s not unusual to see a good deal of exuberance when an
IPO is first announced,” said  Laura Marcero , a Southfield,
Michigan-based partner at Grant Thornton LLP who works with
partsmakers. “As time goes on and more of the company’s plans
and finances are looked at, it may go down. The more Tesla can
do to broaden out its business plans, the better.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kristen Scholer  in New York at 
 kscholer@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Tesla Shares Climb After IPO  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Elon Musk, chairman and chief executive officer of Tesla Motors, participates in the opening bell ceremony at the Nasdaq Marketsite in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Elon Musk, chairman and chief executive officer of Tesla Motors, participates in the opening bell ceremony at the Nasdaq Marketsite in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Elon Musk, chief executive officer of Tesla Motors Inc., talks about the company's initial public offering and outlook.
     Tesla, the electric-car company that hasn’t posted a profit, raised $226 million selling shares above its forecast price range in the first IPO of a U.S. automaker in a half century. Musk speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Francis Gaskins, president of IPOdesktop.com,  talks about the initial public offering of Tesla Motors Inc. and the company's growth outlook.
     Tesla Motors Inc., the electric car company that hasn’t posted a profit, raised $226 million selling shares above its forecast price range in the first IPO of a U.S. automaker in a half century. Gaskins speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Betty Liu reports on major newsmakers in today's Movers & Shakers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Tesla Motors Inc.'s Model S electric car is seen on display at the company's headquarters in Palo Alto, California. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
