-- EU Agency's Terms for Alrosa, De Beers Deal Backed by Region's Top Court
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-06-29T11:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/eu-agency-s-terms-for-alrosa-de-beers-deal-backed-by-region-s-top-court.html

          
          
             A diamond sales agreement between
ZAO Alrosa and De Beers doesn’t need to be reassessed by the
European Union after antitrust regulators won a challenge in the
region’s highest court to a prior ruling.  
 The European Commission was correct when it decided that
pledges by De Beers to overcome anti-competitive effects of the
deal should be legally binding, the  European Court of Justice  in
Luxembourg ruled today. The court overturned a previous ruling
in favor of Alrosa that said the settlement was
“disproportionate.”  
 “The commission did not make an error of law or a manifest
error of assessment or breach the principle of
proportionality,” an 11-judge panel said today. The court
also rejected a lower tribunal’s argument that the commission
had breached Alrosa’s right to be heard.  
 De Beers , the world’s largest diamond company, and Alrosa
struck an agreement in 2002 worth $800 million a year. To settle
EU charges the deal would harm competition, De Beers, which is
45 percent-owned by  Anglo American Plc , in 2006 agreed to phase
out purchases of uncut gems from Alrosa with a complete stop
from Jan. 1, 2009.  
 By dismissing the lower tribunal’s ruling, the EU’s top
court today rejected Alrosa’s initial appeal because the company
“has not succeeded in showing that the individual commitments
offered by De Beers and made binding by the commission
manifestly went beyond what was necessary.”  
 Alrosa spokesman  Andrei Polyakov  declined to comment.  
 ‘Very Important’  
 Today’s ruling is “very important” because it’s the first
by the EU’s top court on a decision to make binding a company’s
commitments, the commission said in a statement.  
 “It recognizes the commitment procedure as an effective
and distinct instrument providing a more rapid solution
resolving competition problems,” the commission said.  
 The EU agency said the judgment also “clarifies the rights
of interested parties in commission proceedings and confirms
that the commission’s handling of the case was appropriate and
fully respected the rights of defense of third parties.”  
 Alrosa in July 2007 won a challenge at the European Court
of First Instance that the EU limits to its deal with De Beers
were unfair and disproportionate. The lower EU court said the
commission had “merely accepted the commitments proposed by De
Beers at face value, without looking for alternative
solutions.”  
 The case is C-441/07 P, Commission v Alrosa.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        