-- EU Wins Top Court Fight Over Bavarian Lager's Access to Lobbyist Meeting
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-06-29T09:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/eu-wins-top-court-fight-over-bavarian-lager-s-access-to-lobbyist-meeting.html

          
          
             The  European Commission  won an
appeal against a U.K. beer importer in a case that could have
forced EU regulators to give companies greater insight into
their decision-making process.  
 The  European Court of Justice , the European Union’s top
court, today backed a decision by the commission to reject
Bavarian Lager Co.’s bid to get the details about a 1996 meeting
between EU officials and lobbyists from a brewery association.
The ruling overturned a 2007  decision  in favor of the company.  
 “The commission was right to reject the application for
access to the full minutes of the meeting,” the Luxembourg-
based court said. Bavarian Lager had failed to provide “any
express or legitimate justification or any convincing argument
in order to demonstrate the necessity for those personal data.”  
 The commission, the executive agency for the 27 EU nations,
appealed a lower court ruling that said Bavarian Lager should
get access to minutes of the meeting about the U.K. beer market,
including the names of the lobbyists who attended and hadn’t
given their consent to be identified.  
 “Bavarian Lager got the document from the commission after
the 2007 decision,”  James Webber , the company’s lawyer at
Shearman & Sterling LLP in London, said by telephone. “Other
companies won’t be so fortunate in the future and will need to
justify to the commission’s satisfaction why they need access.”  
 A complaint by Bavarian Lager in the 1990s triggered an EU
investigation into a British law that stopped foreign beer
makers from supplying the domestic market.  
 The case is C-28/08 Pending Case, Commission v The Bavarian
Lager Co. Ltd.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        