-- European Economic Confidence Unexpectedly Rises as Euro Drop Lifts Exports
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-06-29T09:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/europe-economic-confidence-unexpectedly-rises-as-euro-drop-boosts-exports.html

          
          
             European confidence  in the economic
outlook unexpectedly improved in June after reviving global
growth and a drop in the euro bolstered the region’s recovery.  
 An  index  of executive and consumer  sentiment  in the 16 euro
nations rose to 98.7 from 98.4 in May, the  European Commission 
in Brussels said today. Economists had projected a drop to 98.1,
according to the median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. The commission’s index is based on a survey of 130,000
managers and 40,000 consumers conducted in the first two weeks
of the month.  
 The euro’s 15 percent drop against the dollar this year has
made European goods more competitive abroad as the global
recovery gathered strength. While  Volkswagen AG ’s Audi luxury
unit is among companies stepping up output, the  Greek debt
crisis  has eroded investor confidence and forced governments to
cut deficits. German  investor confidence  plunged in June.  
 “This is as good as it gets,” said  Nick Kounis , chief
European economist at Fortis Bank Nederland NV in Amsterdam.
“We’ll see a  slowdown in growth  in the second half of the year
after what’s likely going to be quite a strong second quarter.
There are a lot of headwinds facing the economy even if they’re
partly offset by a weaker euro.”  
 The euro pared its decline against the dollar after the
data and traded at $1.2191 at 10:52 a.m. in London, down 0.7
percent on the day after reaching $1.2177 earlier.  
 Budget Crisis  
 A gauge of confidence among  consumers  rose to minus 17 in
June from minus 18 in May, the commission report showed.
 Manufacturing sentiment  held at minus 6 in June, while
construction confidence dropped to minus 30 from minus 28.  
 European leaders last month approved an unprecedented loan
package for distressed countries after concern about Greece’s
budget crisis undermined investor confidence. While governments
from Spain to Italy have pledged to step up deficit-cutting
efforts, the euro has fallen more than 7 percent against the
dollar since the beginning of May.  
 The European Central Bank said on June 10 that it expects
the euro-area economy to expand about 1.2 percent next year
instead of a previously projected 1.5 percent. In 2010, the
economy may grow around 1 percent, the ECB forecast.  
 “Concerns that European fiscal consolidation might trigger
a double-dip recession in Europe” are “exaggerated,” said
 Marco Annunziata , chief economist at UniCredit Group in London.
“The euro zone is benefiting from the marked depreciation of
the euro to date. The recovery is lackluster but remains on
track.”  
 Reviving Exports  
 While reviving exports have helped the euro region gather
strength, the recovery is already showing signs of losing
momentum.  Unemployment  rose to the highest in almost 12 years in
April, expansion in Europe’s  services and manufacturing
industries  slowed for a second month in June and German investor
confidence fell the most since October 2008.  
 The Conference Board said today that its leading economic
index for China had the smallest gain in five months in April,
revising down its gauge for the economy’s outlook.  
 In Europe, an index of industrial confidence in Greece rose
to minus 25 from minus 26 in the previous month, today’s report
showed, while a gauge for Portugal held at minus 13. Sentiment
in Spain improved to minus 12 from minus 15 in May. In Germany,
Europe’s largest economy, industrial confidence increased to 2
from minus 1.  
 Job Cuts  
 Metro AG , Germany’s biggest retailer, said on June 18 that
it will close three German wholesale stores and sell another
after failing to turn them around. The measure will lead to 900
job cuts, or 6 percent of the Dusseldorf-based company’s
wholesale workforce.  
 With households reluctant to step up spending, companies
have been reliant on an Asian-led global recovery and a weaker
euro to boost sales.  Siemens AG , Europe’s largest engineering
company, today predicted “continued strong profitability” in
its third quarter on reviving global demand.  
 “A strong dollar and a weak euro is good news for us,”
 Gilles Bogaert , chief financial officer at  Pernod Ricard SA , the
maker of Absolut vodka and Chivas Regal whisky, said on May 20.
“We export more from Europe than we import.”  
 The commission’s gauge measuring euro-area manufacturers’
confidence in their  export orders  rose to minus 25 from minus 29
in the previous month. An index of employment expectations
advanced to minus 9 from minus 10 and a gauge of overall  order
books  rose to minus 26 from minus 28 in May.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        