-- European Union-Mercosur Free-Trade Accord `Not Clear Cut,' De Gucht Says
-- Jennifer M. Freedman
-- 2010-06-29T12:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/european-union-mercosur-free-trade-accord-not-clear-cut-de-gucht-says.html

          
          
             European Union farm producers may
weaken plans to forge a free-trade deal with Latin America’s
Mercosur bloc that would add 4.5 billion euros ($5.5 billion) to
exports and spur job growth, trade chief  Karel De Gucht  said.  
 The European Commission, the EU’s trade authority, said on
May 5 that it planned to resume discussions with Argentina,
Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay about a free-trade area of 800
million people. Earlier negotiations were suspended in 2004
after nine years.  
 While progress was made during a two-day summit in Madrid
in May, talks between the EU and Mercosur fell short of an
unequivocal advance toward a full accord. European farmers, who
are concerned they’ll lose subsidies and have to compete with
cheaper imports, oppose such a deal. France, which got 9.5
billion euros in farm aid last year and accounts for a fifth of
EU agricultural output, is leading a group including Ireland and
Poland that don’t want a Mercosur agreement.  
 “The relaunch of negotiations gives us serious hope that
we can come to a substantial free-trade agreement,” De Gucht,
the 27-nation EU’s trade commissioner, said today in a speech at
the Friends of Europe policy summit in Brussels. “The level of
ambition depends on the political will of the EU itself to come
to that kind of agreement. So it’s not clear cut.”  
 India Deal  
 With global trade talks at an impasse, many governments are
turning to bilateral accords as a less ambitious though
effective way to fuel commerce. The EU is trying to clinch an
accord with India to bolster their 61 billion-euro trade
relationship, and President  Barack Obama  set a November deadline
earlier this week to seal an agreement with South Korea.  
 The EU said in May that its discussions with Mercosur aim
for “full liberalization for a very large part of trade in
goods and concessions for all major industrial sectors” and
“major liberalization” of service industries. The agreement
would also cover public procurement, intellectual property,
geographical indications and provisions on sustainable
development, the EU said.  
 Gross domestic product in the four Mercosur countries is
$1.6 billion, more than that of South Korea, India or Russia.
The EU sells more goods to the region than to Canada or Korea
and, until the global economic crisis, European exports to
Mercosur grew by more than 15 percent annually.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Brussels at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        