-- European Shares Retreat on China Growth Concern, Slump in U.S. Confidence
-- Adam Haigh
-- 2010-06-29T15:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/european-u-s-stock-futures-decline-amid-concern-china-s-growth-may-cool.html

          
          
             European stocks  tumbled the most in
almost six weeks as a report fueled concern that China’s economy
is expanding at a slower pace than estimated and confidence
among U.S. consumers dropped more than forecast.  
 Rio Tinto Group  and Lafarge SA led gauges of basic-
resources and construction-materials companies more than 3
percent lower as the Conference Board corrected its index for
the outlook of China’s economy to indicate slower growth. HSBC
Holdings Plc paced a drop in banks. Vodafone Group Plc slid 2.6
percent after Credit Suisse Group AG downgraded the shares.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  plunged 2.8 percent to 244.42 at
4:39 p.m. in London, the biggest drop since May 19. The gauge is
on course for the first quarterly drop since the rally in global
equities began in March 2009 amid signs that China may need to
raise interest rates to tame inflation in an economy that has
been an engine of growth through the global financial crisis.  
 “We’ve already been penciling in a slowdown” in global
growth,  Philippe Gijsels , head of research at BNP Paribas Fortis
Global Markets in Brussels, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. “Everybody is asking themselves the same
questions: how much, or how strong, will the slowdown be in the
second half? For the stock market, we’ll remain in a period of
high uncertainty.”  
 Rating Downgrades  
 The  Stoxx 600  rallied 7.2 percent from the end of 2009
through this year’s high on April 15 amid signs the economic
recovery was strengthening. The pan-European benchmark gauge
then tumbled 15 percent through May 25 as credit rating
downgrades for Spain, Portugal and Greece triggered concern some
European nations will struggle to fund their deficits.  
 National benchmark indexes fell in all 18 western European
markets today. France’s  CAC 40  retreated 4 percent and Germany’s
DAX lost 3.3 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 slid 3.1 percent to
the lowest level since September.  
 The Conference Board said its China leading economic index
rose 0.3 percent in April, less than the 1.7 percent gain
reported June 15. China’s exports face “strong headwinds” in
the second half of the year from policy tightening measures and
the European debt crisis, Citigroup Inc. said in a report.  
 China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  slumped 4.3 percent to a
14-month low as banks fell on concern Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd.’s initial public offering may divert investor funds away
from other lenders.  
 ‘Remains Uncertainty’  
 “There remains uncertainty over the magnitude of a
slowdown in Chinese growth and the Agricultural Bank share sale
also mopped up quite a bit of liquidity,” said  Michael Liang ,
chief investment officer at Foundation Asset Management (HK)
Ltd., which oversees $120 million.  
 In the U.S.,  consumer confidence  declined in June more than
forecast as Americans became pessimistic about the outlook for
the labor market and the economy. The Conference Board’s
confidence index slumped to 52.9 this month from a revised 62.7
in May, figures from the New York-based private research group
showed today. The reading was lower than all 71 projections in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  
 Rio Tinto, the world’s third-largest mining company, slid
6.4 percent to 3,048 pence amid concern that demand from China
may be harmed.  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the biggest mining company,
sank 5.8 percent to 1,772 pence, the most since May 4.  
 Lafarge, the world’s biggest cement maker, retreated 4.8
percent to 45.67 euros. Bouygues SA, a French construction,
television and telecommunications company, declined 4.4 percent
to 31.78 euros.  
 Banks Retreat  
 A  measure of banks  in the Stoxx 600 dropped 4.2 percent.
HSBC, Europe’s largest lender, lost 3.7 percent to 615.5 pence,
the lowest close since July. Barclays Plc retreated 6.3 percent
to 267.35 pence and Banco Santander SA, Spain’s biggest bank,
plunged 6.8 percent to 8.44 euros.  
 The health of Europe’s lenders may be revealed tomorrow
when the European Central Bank offers them three-month loans
before a landmark 12-month facility has to be paid back. Banks
need to repay 442 billion euros ($540 billion) on July 1, the
biggest amount ever awarded by the ECB and a key plank in its
efforts to fight the financial crisis last year. Demand for
three-month cash tomorrow will expose how much banks still rely
on the ECB for funding, investors and economists said.  
 Vodafone dropped 2.6 percent to 142.25 pence as Credit
Suisse cut its recommendation on the world’s largest mobile-
phone company to “neutral” from “ outperform .”  
 Sevan Slides  
 Sevan Marine ASA slumped 15 percent to 4.83 kroner amid
speculation that the Norwegian owner of offshore oil rigs may
need to issue equity to meet debt payments.  
 “The stock is down on fears the company will have to issue
new equity to finance interest and debt payments in 2010,”  Jo Henrik Eriksen , an analyst with Danske Markets Equities, said by
phone today. “The company’s current cash balance, income from
operations and other liquid assets should be sufficient to cover
debt requirements in 2010 with a good margin.”  
 Sevan Marine Chief Executive Officer  Jan Erik Tveteraas ,
the only person at the company allowed to answer questions from
the media, wasn’t immediately available for comment.  
 Chloride Group Plc soared 11 percent to 387.1 pence, the
highest price since at least 1988. Emerson Electric Co. offered
to buy Chloride for 997 million pounds ($1.5 billion) in an
effort to derail ABB Ltd.’s planned takeover of Britain’s
biggest maker of gear to protect against power outages.  
 ABB, which said it will consider its options, fell 5
percent to 19.02 Swiss francs in Zurich.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 -- Philippe Gijsels, head of research at BNP Paribas Fortis Global Markets, talks about the effect of austerity measures in Europe on economic growth.
     Gijsels speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Start Up." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Lewis Wan, chief investment officer at Pride Investments Group Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s planned initial public offering and the outlook for China's banking industry.
     Agricultural Bank set a price range for the Shanghai part of its initial public offering that will allow it to raise as much as $20.1 billion, according to a company statement. The Beijing-based bank may offer 22.2 billion shares in Shanghai at 2.52 yuan to 2.68 yuan apiece, it said. Agricultural Bank last week priced shares in the Hong Kong part of its IPO at HK$2.88 to HK$3.48 each. Wan, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses China's economy and stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
