-- Health of Europe's Banks May Be Shown by ECB 3-Month Loans
-- Bryan Keogh
-- 2010-06-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/european-banks-funding-needs-may-be-revealed-as-12-month-ecb-loans-expire.html

          
          
             The health of Europe’s banks may be
exposed today when the European Central Bank offers them three-
month loans before a landmark 12-month facility has to be paid
back.  
 Banks tomorrow need to repay 442 billion euros ($540
billion), the biggest amount ever awarded by the ECB and a key
plank in its efforts to fight the financial crisis last year.
Demand for three-month cash today will highlight how much banks
still rely on the ECB for funding, investors and economists
said. The ECB will announce how much money banks have asked for
at about 11:15 a.m. in Frankfurt.  
 “The amount that will be rolled over will have powerful
information content regarding the health of European banks,”
said  Luca Cazzulani , senior fixed-income strategist at UniCredit
SpA in Milan, Italy’s biggest bank. “As market rates are much
lower” than the 1 percent charged by the ECB, “only banks with
very limited access to liquidity will bid,” he said. Banks can
currently borrow three-month money from each other in the market
at about 0.76 percent.  
 Financial institutions are wary of lending to each other
after Europe’s sovereign debt crisis fueled concern that some
governments may struggle to refinance their debts, prompting
investors to shun bonds sold by nations including Greece,
Portugal and Spain. Credit Markets may face a renewed bout of
risk aversion should demand for the three-month ECB loans exceed
300 billion euros, signaling banks are still finding it
difficult to fund themselves, according to  Laurent Fransolet ,
head of European fixed-income strategy at Barclays Capital.  
 ‘Knee-Jerk’ Reaction  
 “The initial knee-jerk market reaction would be, ‘oh, a
big number, that means that there’s trouble’,” said London-
based Fransolet. Banks will probably ask for 250 billion euros
to 300 billion euros, he estimated.  
 The ECB flooded the financial system with cheap cash after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.
While it no longer offers banks 12-month loans, this year’s debt
crisis forced it to extend some of its other non-standard
measures and to start buying the bonds of high-deficit
governments.  
 The ECB still lends banks as much cash as they want at its
 benchmark rate  for periods of up to six months. Outstanding
loans currently total almost 880 billion euros.  
 Eliminating the 12-month facility is part of the ECB’s
long-term exit strategy and the bank has taken “every
precaution” to avoid a liquidity squeeze, Governing Council
member  Ewald Nowotny  said in Vienna yesterday.  
 Market Tension  
 Still, Europe’s fiscal crisis continues to push up gauges
of credit risk as officials conduct stress tests of European
banks’ ability to withstand further market turmoil.  
 The difference between the three-month dollar London
interbank offered rate and the overnight indexed swap rate, a
gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend, climbed to 0.338 percentage
point on June 25, the highest spread in a year. It was at 0.333
percentage point yesterday. European bank shares dropped across
Europe yesterday, with Allied Irish Banks Plc and Credit
Agricole SA leading the declines.  
 In another sign of tension, the ECB yesterday drained less
money than it planned to from money markets with seven-day term
deposits, as some financial institutions hoarded cash before the
expiry of the 12-month loan.  
 BNP Paribas SA, France’s largest bank, has “prepared
itself for this reimbursement,” a spokeswoman in Paris said.
“It presents no problem.”  
 ‘Significant Support’  
 “The market consensus is that about 200 billion euros will
be rolled over” in the three-month tender, said  Christoph Rieger , co-head of fixed-income strategy at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt, Germany’s second-largest bank. “But given the
increase in tensions in the funding markets again this week, the
chances are we’re going to see more demand, not less.”  
 Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in London, said the banking systems in countries on
the euro region’s southern periphery still need “significant
support.”  
 “We’re looking for the biggest amount ever for a three-
month tender, above 250 billion euros,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet. Photographer: Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- John Lipsky, first deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund, talks about the fiscal policies in the major European economies and the meeting of Group of 20 leaders last weekend.
     Lipsky, speaking with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack," also discusses the European Union's plan to conduct stress tests on its largest banks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
