-- Europe's Central Banks Step Up Purchases of Greek, Portuguese, Irish Debt
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-06-29T15:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/euro-region-central-banks-step-up-greek-irish-bond-purchases-traders-say.html

          
          
             Euro-region central banks stepped up
purchases of Greek, Portuguese and Irish government securities
today, traders said, deepening efforts to support the region’s
bond market in the wake of the sovereign-debt crisis.  
 The purchases focused on maturities of five years and
below, with some buying interest also shown for longer-maturity
Greek bonds, said the traders, who declined to be identified
because the transactions are confidential. The extra yield, or
spread, investors demand to hold the nations’ securities instead
of benchmark German debt narrowed.  
 The European Central Bank took the unprecedented decision
to start buying government bonds last month to help the European
Union contain the Greek debt crisis. The ECB said yesterday it
bought 4 billion euros ($5 billion) of bonds last week, taking
the total purchases as of June 25 to 55 billion euros. Greek
debt spreads had been widening, approaching their levels before
the EU rescue was announced in early May, amid speculation funds
that track bond indexes were selling the debt.  
 Central banks “are more active than they have been of
late,” said  Huw Worthington , a fixed-income strategist at
Barclays Capital in London. “There has been a lot of volatility
in a lot of the spreads, and some concerns of selling ahead of
the month end.”  
 Greek two-year notes rose, sending the yield down 41 basis
points to 10.19 percent as of 3:43 p.m. in London. The yield
spread with German two-year notes fell 39 basis points to 1001
basis points. The yield on 10-year Greek bonds fell 41 basis
points to 10.57 percent.  
 Greek securities will leave indexes managed by Citigroup
Inc., Barclays Plc and the Markit iBoxx index at the end of this
month after they were downgraded to junk by Moody’s Investors
Service, potentially triggering sales by managers in so-called
passive funds.  
 The Irish two-year bond yield fell 11 basis points to 2.88
percent and equivalent-maturity Portuguese yields dropped nine
basis points to 3.61 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        