-- Ex-Bristol-Myers's Executives Prosecution in Fraud Case Deferred in Deal
-- David Voreacos
-- 2010-06-29T22:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/ex-bristol-myers-s-executives-prosecution-in-fraud-case-deferred-in-deal.html

          
          
             U.S. prosecutors agreed to drop
five-year-old fraud charges against former  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co.  executives  Frederick S. Schiff  and Richard Lane, who must
pay money to a settlement fund under a court-approved deal.  
 Schiff, 62, a former finance chief, and Lane, 59, a former
director of worldwide medicines, were first charged in 2005 with
fraud and conspiracy. Prosecutors accused them of failing to
tell investors in 2000 and 2001 that Bristol-Myers arranged tens
of millions of dollars in incentives to spur wholesalers to buy
more drugs than needed, a practice known as channel stuffing.  
 Under deferred-prosecution agreements approved today in
federal court in Newark, New Jersey, U.S. Attorney  Paul Fishman 
will drop charges in one year as long as Schiff pays $225,000,
Lane pays $175,000, and both abide by their terms of pre-trial
release. Neither can serve as a chief executive officer or chief
financial officer of a publicly traded company for two years.  
 “This misguided prosecution should have never happened in
the first place,” said Schiff attorney,  David M. Zornow  of
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP in New York. “It has
been a nightmare, and no one can give him back those years but
he is extremely gratified today that he has been vindicated this
way.”  
 Lane’s attorneys,  Richard Strassberg  and  Robert Braceras  of
Goodwin Proctor LLP, called the agreement a “tremendous
vindication” for their client.  
 “It vividly demonstrates what we have always maintained --
that at all times Mr. Lane acted properly and in the best
interests of Bristol-Myers Squibb and its shareholders,” the
attorneys said in a statement.  
 Pre-Trial Rulings  
 Pre-trial rulings by U.S. District Judge  Faith Hochberg 
narrowed the securities fraud case and meant prosecutors
couldn’t argue that Schiff and Lane were required to correct
statements made by others to investors. She also barred
prosecutors from using the phrase “channel stuffing” at the
trial.  
 Hochberg separated the cases and set Schiff’s trial before
Lane’s. Her 2008 ruling narrowing the case was upheld in April
by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.  
 ‘Musical Chairs’  
 “Throughout the pretrial proceedings, and even in this
appeal, the government has engaged in a game of musical chairs
with their pursuit of changing legal theories,” according to
the 59-page appeals court opinion.  
 The appellate panel agreed with Hochberg that Schiff didn’t
have a fiduciary duty to correct the misstatements of other
corporate officers.  
 “Such a generalized corporate fiduciary duty has few
logical boundaries,” the judges wrote. “What would the
limiting principle be if we imposed this duty on corporations
and its employees?”  
 The panel also said prosecutors hadn’t laid the proper
legal foundation for an expert to testify about the New York-
based company’s plunge in  market value  of $20 billion in April
2002. Hochberg put Schiff’s trial on hold in 2008 while
prosecutors appealed her ruling.  
 “After the Third Circuit opinion affirming the district
court’s limitations on the scope of the case and the evidence we
could introduce, we determined that this resolution was in the
public interest,” Fishman said today in an interview.  
 Fishman, who took office in October, inherited the case
from former U.S. Attorney  Christopher Christie , who is now New
Jersey’s governor.  
 ‘Great Courage’  
 Strassberg said Fishman displayed “great courage to re-
examine an existing case and do what’s right, even if it may not
be the most popular thing.”  
 Shares  of Bristol-Myers fell after the drugmaker disclosed
on April 1 and April 3, 2002, that customer inventories were
bloated. Hochberg had said prosecutors were unable to show that
the stock drop was tied to Schiff’s conduct.  
 Schiff left the company in 2002. Three years later, he and
Lane were charged with fraud and conspiracy.  
 Bristol-Myers  paid $300 million in 2005 to avoid
prosecution for channel stuffing, part of the $839 million it
spent to resolve investor lawsuits and probes by U.S.
prosecutors and regulators. In 2003, Bristol-Myers erased
$2.5 billion in revenue from 1999 to 2001 related to the
practice.  
 The money that Schiff and Lane will pay will go to the
“Department of Justice Bristol-Myers-Squibb Settlement Fund or
such other settlement fund as the United States Attorney
directs,” according to their deferred-prosecution agreements.  
 The case is U.S. v. Schiff, 06-cr-406, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        