-- Former Oil-Futures Broker Fined for Trading Abuse While on Drinking Binges
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-06-29T10:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/ex-pvm-oil-futures-broker-fined-by-fsa-for-trading-abuses-while-drinking.html

          
          
             The U.K. financial regulator fined a
former broker at PVM Oil Futures Ltd. 72,000 pounds ($108,000)
for trading without client authorization and lying to his
employer about it while going on drinking binges.  
 The Financial Services Authority also banned  Steven Perkins 
from working in the financial services industry for five years.
Perkins traded on the ICE Futures Europe exchange “in the early
hours of the morning” in June 2009 without client
authorization, the FSA said in a statement today. He “drank
excessively” over the weekend and the day of the trades, the
regulator said.  
 “Perkins’ drunkenness does not excuse his market abuse,”
said  Alexander Justham , director of markets at the FSA.
“Perkins has been banned because he is not a fit and proper
person to be involved in regulated activities and his behavior
posed a risk to the proper functioning of the market.”  
 Perkins’ job was to trade orders on an execution-only basis
in Brent Crude Futures contract on the ICE exchange for his
firm’s clients. He traded “in extremely high volume” on the
exchange in August, accumulating a long position in Brent in
excess of 7,000 lots, or more than 7 million barrels of oil, the
FSA said.  
 Perkins’ trading inflated the price of Brent to an
artificial level and he “repeatedly lied to his employer in
order to try and cover up his unauthorized trading,” the FSA
said.  
 Perkins agreed to settle the case and qualified for a 20
percent discount under the FSA’s settlement procedures. The
regulator also reduced his fine because of his financial
circumstances.  
 The FSA said that Perkins joined a rehabilitation program
for alcoholics and stopped drinking after the incident. A number
for Perkins or his attorney wasn’t immediately available from
the FSA.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        