-- Texas Calls on National Guard as Alex Likely to Become Hurricane
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-06-29T21:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/texas-prepares-for-tropical-storm-alex-as-spill-cleanup-effort-threatened.html

          
          
             Tropical Storm Alex lingered just
below hurricane strength today as residents in Texas and energy
companies in the Gulf of Mexico made final preparations for a
strike from the system’s strongest side.  
 The storm, with maximum sustained winds of 70 miles (110
kilometers) per hour, was 290 miles southeast of Brownsville,
Texas, heading northwest at 13 mph, the U.S. National Hurricane
Center  said  just before 4 p.m. Houston time.  
 “Satellite imagery indicates that Alex is becoming better
organized and it is expected to become a hurricane sometime
tonight with strengthening continuing until landfall,”
according to the advisory.  
 Residents and officials in Brownsville and McAllen, Texas,
are preparing for flooding and widespread power outages similar
to those experienced when  Hurricane Dolly  struck the area,
according to government websites. Dolly followed a path similar
to Alex in July 2008 and caused about $1.05 billion in damage,
according to a hurricane center report.  
 Yesterday, Brownsville began giving residents sandbags.
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  declared 19 counties a disaster area
to free up resources and activated 2,500 National Guard troops,
eight helicopters and three C-130 transport planes in advance of
the season’s first storm.  
 Today Perry asked President  Barack Obama  to declare an
emergency in those counties because that would allow the state
to ask for federal assistance in removing debris and to cover
costs of preparing for the storm.  
 Hurricane Warnings  
 The hurricane center tracks show the center of the storm
passing just south of Brownsville tomorrow night, meaning the
Texas city of 172,437 will be struck by the Alex’s most powerful
quadrant, according to the hurricane center. Hurricane warnings
have been issued from Baffin Bay in Texas to La Cruz in Mexico.  
 Alex is passing over a warm eddy of water in the Gulf and
will have its best chance of intensifying in the next few hours,
said  Jeff Masters , co-founder of  Weather Underground  in Ann
Arbor, Michigan.  
 “It is probably going to intensify into a Category 2
hurricane,” Masters said by telephone. “It could weaken right
before landfall, though.”  
 Masters said a combination of dry air over land, air
pollution near the coast and possibly layers of cooler water
could all conspire to weaken Alex. A Category 2 storm has winds
of at least 96 mph on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale.  
 12 Inches of Rain  
 Alex is expected to drop as much as 12 inches of rain in
northeastern Mexico and southern Texas as it makes landfall,
according to the hurricane center. Some locations may receive as
much as 20 inches of rain. In addition, a storm surge of about 5
feet is possible along the coast.  
 “The surge could penetrate inland as far as several miles
from the shore with the depth decreasing as the water moves
inland,” the advisory said.  
 On South Padre Island, 28 miles northeast of Brownsville,
officials have cleared beaches of signs, trash cans and any
other items that can turn into projectiles, said  Dan Quandt ,
city spokesman.  
 “There is no mandatory evacuation on the island,” Quandt
said by telephone. “We are looking at some significant storm
surge coming in. We may have around five feet or so which won’t
be coming into the island proper.”  
 Gulf Coast Refining  
 The Gulf Coast is home to 43 percent of operable U.S.
refining capacity, according to the  Energy Department . Gulf
Coast refiners in August and September 2008 lost about 20
percent of daily production capacity due to hurricanes Ike and
Gustav.  
 Valero Energy Corp.,  the largest U.S. refiner, has three
South Texas refineries that could be disrupted by the storm or
inland flooding, said  Bill Day , a spokesman for the company.
Valero has set aside emergency water, food and first-aid
supplies for those refineries at a distribution center for its
retail stores near its San Antonio headquarters.  
 “We have contracts with companies that can provide enough
power to run a refinery with generators,” he said. Valero’s two
Corpus Christi refineries are about 160 miles north of
Brownsville, one of the places where the storm could make
landfall. Another refinery in Three Rivers is about 70 miles
northwest of Corpus Christi.  
 ‘Flooding a Concern’  
 “Refining units themselves are built to withstand heavy
winds, but flooding can be a concern,” Day said. After
hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005, “we moved a lot of our
electrical equipment higher. A refinery can weather a storm but
it won’t be able to operate if it doesn’t have electricity.”  
 The storm’s track keeps it away from a direct hit on the
oil slick from the damaged BP well. However, Alex’s circulation
is so large it will raise tides along the Louisiana coast about
two to three feet above normal tomorrow, Masters said.  
 “I am concerned about the oil slick,” Masters said.
“That oil is going to be pushed much farther inland than
usual.”  
 Large ocean swells are already making their way toward the
oil spill, said Brian LaMarre, a National Weather Service
meteorologist in Slidell, Louisiana.  
 BP needs about three more days to connect a new cap that
will feed crude from the leaking Macondo well to the Helix
Producer, a vessel that can add 20,000 to 25,000 barrels a day
to the London-based company’s current containment capacity, said
 Kent Wells , senior vice president.  
 As the work can be completed only in flat seas, Alex could
cause a seven-day delay in connecting the Helix, he said. The
work was to be completed by July 7, he said yesterday.  
 Skimming, Burning Stopped  
 Skimming and burning operations were stopped today after
thunderstorms and rough seas invaded the area, said Chuck Wolf,
a spokesman for the Deepwater Horizon joint information center
in New Orleans. Work on the relief well is still going on, he
said.  
 LaMarre said the rough seas are a result of Alex.  
 “It is not directly because of Alex, but if Alex wasn’t in
the Gulf we wouldn’t have all this deep tropical moisture,”
LaMarre said by telephone. “What we’re seeing here is just an
enormous amount of tropical moisture associated with Alex.”  
 Crude oil fell for a second day in New York on speculation
the storm will bypass the main producing areas of the Gulf of
Mexico and reach land in Mexico. Oil for August delivery fell
$2.31, or 3 percent, to settle at $75.94 a barrel on the New
York Mercantile Exchange.  
 Gasoline for July delivery fell 6.56 cents, or 3.1 percent,
to settle at $2.072 a gallon on the Nymex.  
 The Gulf of Mexico is home to about 30 percent of U.S. oil,
12 percent of its natural gas production and seven of the 10
busiest U.S. ports.  
 Evacuations in Gulf  
 BP and Royal Dutch Shell Plc, the biggest oil producers in
the Gulf, are evacuating hundreds of workers from platforms in
the western and central Gulf as a safety precaution.  
 Shell said about 900 workers had been evacuated as of 11
a.m. in Houston and 630 remain offshore. “Production from our
East assets will be evaluated as the storm progresses,” it said
on its  website .  
 Exxon Mobil Corp.  is also evacuating workers from offshore
platforms and said that 8,000 barrels of daily oil gross output
and 123 million cubic feet of gas has been shut in, according to
an e-mailed statement.  
 ConocoPhillips evacuated the Magnolia platform, which in
2009 averaged 10,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day, the
company said today on its website.  
 Apache, Williams  
 Apache Corp. shut in six of its 13 platforms in the Gulf
and evacuated 135 people, said  Bob Dye , a company spokesman. An
additional three platforms may be closed later today.  
 Williams Partners LP  expects reduced processing at its
Markham natural gas plant in Texas later today because some
offshore gas producers have shut output,  Jeff Pounds , a company
spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  
 “Despite some temporary shut-ins across the western Gulf
and some delays in shipping traffic, Alex does not represent a
destructive hazard to a large portion of the energy production
region,” said  Jim Rouiller , senior energy meteorologist for
Planalytics Inc.  
 The storm is being blamed for at least 13 deaths in Central
America.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        