-- Mexico's Bolsa Turns to New Equity Class in Bid to Jump-Start IPO Market
-- Jonathan Roeder
-- 2010-06-29T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/mexico-s-bolsa-turns-to-new-equity-class-in-bid-to-jump-start-ipo-market.html

          
          
             Mexico’s stock exchange  is easing
regulations to let smaller companies list shares after
attracting only two initial public offerings since 2008.  
 Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB  will allow companies with
estimated market values of less than $250 million to offer
shares before meeting corporate governance standards required
for larger IPOs in Mexico, said  Jose Manuel Allende , director of
issuing companies and securities for the exchange.  
 The exchange estimates 200 to 300 companies are eligible to
use the program, Allende said. Real estate developer  Corporativo
Tres Marias SAPIB  and forestry company Proteak Uno SAPIB each
plan to raise about 1 billion pesos ($79 million) this week in
the first offerings under the plan. Mexico’s $406 billion market
capitalization is less than Argentina’s $538 billion and 34
percent of Brazil’s $1.19 trillion.  
 “This is something very interesting for companies, a
different way of getting financing that they didn’t have access
to before,”  Ruben Macias , who helps manage 131 billion pesos of
assets for  Grupo Profuturo GNP SAB , Mexico’s fifth largest
pension fund, said in a telephone interview from Mexico City.  
 Mexico’s economy, the second-largest in Latin America after
Brazil’s, is forecast to grow 4.4 percent this year, the fastest
pace since 2006, recovering from its worst recession since 1932,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 11
analysts.  
 Trailing Brazil  
 The bourse had two IPOs this quarter after a 22-month
drought and 25 since 2000, compared with 120 for Brazil’s
 Bovespa , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Allende said many Mexican companies forego IPOs because
they don’t comply with the exchange’s requirements for share
offerings such as ensuring that at least a quarter of board
members are independent and holding periodic shareholder
meetings.  
 Companies selling shares under the new rules will have
SAPIB affixed to their names, rather than the SAB designation
used for larger stocks, Allende said. Their shares can only be
bought and sold by institutional investors, including banks,
brokerages and pension funds, or certified professional
investors who sign a waiver acknowledging an assumption of
higher risk. SAPIBs have three years to adopt the standards of
SABs and will be delisted if they don’t, Allende said.  
 The SAPIB program follows Brazil’s Bovespa Mais initiative
that began in 2008. The Brazilian plan is directed at small and
medium-sized companies and allows them to gradually implement
corporate governance and disclosure requirements, according to
 the Bovespa’s website .  
 Market Growth  
 The new equity class may help Mexico’s market catch up to
Brazil, said  Juan Carlos Sotomayor , head of analysis at
 Corporacion Actinver SAB , a Mexico City-based brokerage and
financial services firm that held Mexico’s last IPO in May. The
Bolsa, based in Mexico City, had  net income  of $41.2 million in
2009 after a loss of $9.7 million in 2008.  BM&F Bovespa SA , the
Brazilian exchange operator based in Sao Paulo,  earned  $447
million in 2009, a 25 percent increase from the previous year.  
 “This is going to help in two ways: One, it will help the
Mexican market develop and reach the levels of the Brazilian
market, which has been a great success,” Sotomayor said. “Two,
this new product will help Bolsa Mexicana de Valores improve its
own revenue.”  
 ‘Strange Beasts’  
 The creation of SAPIBs may leave investors with losses
because buyers are likely to underestimate the risks of owning
them, said  Rafael Escobar , an analyst with Mexico City-based
brokerage Vector Casa de Bolsa SA.  
 “May God help those of us who have our savings invested in
the Afores, because now they are authorized to invest in these
strange beasts,” Escobar said, referring to Mexican pension
funds. The companies are dangerous investments because they
“aren’t interested in the crucial topic of corporate
governance,” he said.  
 Trading in SAPIBs also will be less liquid than in SAB
stocks because they are closed to most individual investors,
said  Sergio Mendez , who helps manage 80.5 billion pesos in
assets as chief investment officer at Mexico City-based pension
fund Afore XXI.  
 Tres Marias, based in Morelia, Mexico, plans to sell shares
as soon as today and ProTeak Uno, based in Mexico City, will
sell shares tomorrow, according to filings with the Bolsa.
Restaurant operator Arrachera House SAPIB, based in Mexico City,
will sell as much as 460 million pesos of shares under the same
plan, according to regulatory filings with the Bolsa. The
company hasn’t specified a date for its offer, according to the
filings.  
 Buyback Funds  
 Allende said the Bolsa may push to amend the law to allow
companies to remain as SAPIBs for a longer period, and perhaps
permanently.  
 Alberto Herrejon , chief executive officer of Morelia,
Mexico-based Tres Marias, said his company would like to remain
a SAPIB and plans to pay a dividend every six months to attract
investors. Tres Marias plans to create a share buyback fund from
profits to ensure trading and repurchase stock from investors
who wish to sell, Herrejon said. That’s a step that the Bolsa is
recommending for all SAPIB companies, according to Allende.  
 “Being a SAPIB gives us a lot more flexibility, and it
would allow us a lot of financial opportunities if we could
remain one,” Herrejon said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Roeder  in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        