-- Mexico Candidate's Killing Won't Stop Foreign Investment, Ruiz Mateos Says
-- Jens Erik Gould
-- 2010-06-29T19:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/mexico-candidate-s-killing-won-t-stop-foreign-investment-ruiz-mateos-says.html

          
          
             Mexican Economy Minister  Gerardo Ruiz Mateos  said yesterday’s killing of a candidate for governor
won’t stop foreign direct investment from growing even as
tourism and local economies suffer.  
 The assassination of  Rodolfo Torre Cantu  in Tamaulipas
state won’t stop foreign companies from investing in Mexico, nor
will it affect the country’s ability to carry out presidential
elections in 2012, Ruiz Mateos said today in an interview.
Still, organized crime hurts local economies and tourism in
areas where the violence is the worst, he said.  
 “Investors are watching a country with a very important
future and they’re investing in the country,” Ruiz Mateos said
in Bloomberg’s Mexico City offices.  
 Mexico’s peso has fallen since Torre Cantu, a candidate for
the  Institutional Revolutionary Party , was shot dead by gunmen
along with four other people in his motorcade. It marked the
highest-level political assassination since presidential
candidate  Luis Donaldo Colosio  was killed in March 1994, an
event that also shook investor confidence.  
 “There are areas like Juarez, Tijuana or Reynosa where
there’s a wave of violence,” Ruiz Mateos said, referring to
cities along the border with Texas and California. “In those
places where this climate exists, commerce is affected. People
don’t go out to eat in restaurants like they used to. ”  
 The peso declined 1.1 percent to 12.8716 per U.S. dollar at
2:50 p.m. New York time, extending yesterday’s 0.7 percent drop.
The currency has strengthened 2.4 percent this year.  
 Mexico’s growth each year would be as much as
1.5 percentage points higher and the country would attract more
foreign direct investment if there were less drug-related
violence, said  Gabriel Casillas , chief economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in Mexico City. The government estimates violence
saps 1 percentage point from gross domestic product.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        