-- Mexico Hunts Candidate's Killers Amid Bloodiest Election Season Since 1994
-- Thomas Black
-- 2010-06-29T14:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/mexico-hunts-candidate-s-killers-amid-bloodiest-election-season-since-1994.html

          
          
             Declaring the nation’s institutions
under threat from organized crime, Mexican President  Felipe Calderon  vowed to capture the suspected drug traffickers behind
yesterday’s slaying of a leading gubernatorial candidate.  
 Rodolfo Torre Cantu , of the opposition Institutional
Revolutionary Party, and four members of his motorcade were
gunned down in the border state of Tamaulipas, where Torre Cantu
had a two-to-one lead in polls ahead of July 4 elections.  
 The candidate, who made fighting violence a pillar of his
campaign, is the highest-level politician to be assassinated
since presidential candidate  Luis Donaldo Colosio  was killed in
1994. Calderon called today for political leaders, the media and
academics to begin a dialogue to discuss how to deal with
organized crime, the nation’s “biggest” challenge.  
 “More than ever, dialogue and unity are needed,” Calderon
told reporters. “United, Mexicans can defeat and will defeat a
common enemy that today threatens to destroy not only our peace
but our democratic institutions.”  
 Mexico’s peso fell for the second day as news of the
assassination undermined investors’ confidence in the country’s
stability. The currency weakened 0.9 percent to 12.8423 per U.S.
dollar at 9:48 a.m. New York time. The IPC  stock index  fell 1.9
percent to 31,960.14.  
 “Mexico is on a very dangerous path,´´  Walter Molano , head
of research at Greenwich, Connecticut-based BCP Securities, an
emerging-markets focused investment bank, said in a phone
interview from Chile. “This definitely shows Mexico is coming
closer to following the footsteps of Colombia in the 1980s and
90s when the narco movement took on political characteristics.”  
 Last Campaign Rally  
 Torre Cantu , 46, had made improving security and fighting
impunity a top campaign pledge before the elections, which will
choose new governors in 12 of 31 states.  
 “Violence in all its forms threatens the well-being of the
population, in addition to inhibiting investment, trade and
productive activities,” he said in a  document  on his website.  
 Many voters in the state, while worried about a rise in
murders and kidnappings, didn’t expect the violence to spill
over into the campaign.  
 “The violence is serious but I don´t think it´s to the
point of suspending the election,” Iveth Sauceda, a 30-year-old
homemaker, said at a campaign rally of 2,000 people for Torre
Cantu on June 22 in Reynosa.  
 Suspended Campaigns  
 After yesterday´s slaying, Calderon’s National Action
Party, or PAN for its Spanish initials, and the Party of the
Democratic Revolution suspended campaigning in Tamaulipas.  
 Torre Cantu,  a surgeon  and congressman from 2003 to 2006,
had 61 percent support, compared with 30 percent for PAN
candidate Jose Julian Sacramento, according to a June 12-16 poll
by Mexico City-based Consulta Mitofsky. The poll had a margin of
error of 1 percentage point.  
 The assassination is most likely a show of force by the
Zetas drug gang as they challenge the Gulf Cartel for control of
lucrative smuggling routes across the Rio Grande into southern
Texas, said  George Grayson , a professor of government at the
College of William & Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia.  
 “The cartels don’t seek a failed state,” Grayson said in
an e-mail. “They want dual sovereignty -- that is, the old
system whereby they paid off public officials, who, for their
part, turned a blind eye to criminality.”  
 Mexican politicians in states where cartels operate are
frequently pressured by the groups, said  Alejandro Schtulmann ,
research director of Emerging Markets Political Risk Analysis, a
Mexico City consulting firm.  
 “If you benefited one, there could be reprisals from
another,” Schtulmann said yesterday in a phone interview. “If
you benefited none of them, there could also be reprisals.”  
 Low Turnout Expected  
 Voter participation in next week’s vote may drop to as low
as one-third of voters from previous midterm elections when
turnout was between 44 percent and 60 percent, Tony Payan, a
political scientist at the University of Texas in  El Paso , said
before Torre Cantu’s killing.  
 Luis Adame, a gas station attendant in Camargo, about 288
kilometers (178 miles) north of Ciudad Victoria, where Torre
Cantu was killed, said he won’t vote for mayor this year because
he fears the drug traffickers who operate in the border city.  
 “It’s too risky,” said Adame, 19, standing across the
street from a boarded-up convenience store in a town where drug-
related violence has caused residents to flee and the economy to
shrink.  
 Rising Death Toll  
 Mexico has turned increasingly violent since Calderon came
to office in December 2006 vowing to fight traffickers. More
than 22,000 people have been killed in Mexico by organized crime
since the crackdown began, according to the U.S. State
Department.  
 The government estimates violence shaves 1 percentage point
from gross domestic product each year. Mexico’s drug-related
killings in 2010 rose to 5,339 through mid-June, compared with
6,587 in all of 2009, according to data from Reforma, a Mexico
City newspaper.  
 In Valle Hermoso, Tamaulipas, PAN mayoral candidate Jose
Mario Guajardo was murdered last month. Calderon´s party
couldn’t find anyone willing to risk running for mayor in the
cities of Mier and Nuevo Progreso, and the party’s candidate in
Camargo quit the race after threats, said Francisco Javier
Garza, the state party president.  
 In Chihuahua, state election authorities asked candidates
not to campaign in at least four towns because of the violence.
Politicians in the state of Durango don’t hold campaign rallies
at night because of potential violence.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Camargo, Tamaulipas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Mexican President Felipe Calderon  
                       
                         
                           Alfredo Guerrero/Presidencia/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Mexican President Felipe Calderon speaks at Los Pinos presidential residence in Mexico City on June 28, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Mexican President Felipe Calderon speaks at Los Pinos presidential residence in Mexico City on June 28, 2010. Photographer: Alfredo Guerrero/Presidencia/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
