-- FedEx Wins Dismissal of Some Claims in Drivers' Lawsuit Seeking Benefits
-- Carlyn Kolker
-- 2010-06-29T19:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/fedex-wins-dismissal-of-some-claims-in-indiana-worker-class-action-lawsuit.html

          
          
             FedEx Corp.  won partial dismissal of
a  class-action lawsuit  brought by contract drivers who contend
they are entitled to full benefits because the company treats
them as employees.  
 A federal judge in South Bend, Indiana, threw out some
claims in the suit, saying the workers failed to exhaust out-of-
court, administrative procedures that might help them get the
medical, dental and retirement benefits they seek.  
 “Merely showing that FedEx is predisposed to deny the
plaintiffs’ claims and has consistently taken that position in
this lawsuit isn’t sufficient to show by certainty that the
claims would be denied,” U.S. District Judge  Robert L. Miller 
wrote in a June 28 opinion.  
 Miller’s decision allows the drivers to re-file  claims 
against FedEx, the world’s largest air-cargo carrier, should the
named plaintiffs exhaust the administrative process. The
Memphis, Tennessee-based company says its contract driver model
is legal and was approved for tax purposes by the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service in 1994.  
 “It’s a procedural setback as opposed to a substantive
setback,”  Lynn Faris , a lawyer for the drivers, said in a phone
interview. “We will do exactly as the judge says and have the
named plaintiffs file the administrative claims.”  
 The case is part of a so-called multidistrict litigation,
which allows suits filed in courts around the U.S. to be
consolidated before a single judge for pretrial hearings.  
 ‘Broad-Based Assault’  
 “The ruling is the latest victory for FedEx Ground in the
ongoing legal challenges to the independent contractor model,”
FedEx spokesman  Maury Lane  said in an e-mailed statement. “We
believe that all lawsuits in the multi-district litigation are
without merit and part of a broad-based assault on independent
contractors who have chosen to own and operate their own
businesses.”  
 FedEx saves money by using contractors because it doesn’t
offer them the same benefits and vacation time as it does for
employees. The company has encouraged its contractors to
consolidate routes and hire their own subcontractors in an
effort to bolster its position that the workers are small-
business owners and not employees.  
 The contractor model gives FedEx’s Ground unit a  cost
advantage  of as much as 30 percent over rival  United Parcel
Service Inc. , University of Pittsburgh business professor  Marick Masters  has estimated.  
 UPS, based in Atlanta, is the largest employer of
Teamsters, with about two-thirds of its 407,000 employees
represented by the union. FedEx has about 290,000 workers, and
about 12,000 of them, or 4 percent, are contractors.  
 The case is In re FedEx Ground Package System Inc.
Employment Practices Litigation, 3:05-md-00527, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Indiana (South Bend).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlyn Kolker  in New York at 
 ckolker@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        