-- Fidelity's Greetham Sold Stocks, Expects 2011 Rally
-- Hanny Wan
-- 2010-06-29T10:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/fidelity-s-trevor-greetham-said-he-s-sold-stocks-expects-rally-next-year.html

          
          
             Fidelity International’s  Trevor Greetham  said he’s been selling stocks over the past six months
in anticipation of economic “difficulties” later this year.  
 Better buying opportunities will emerge in the second half
of this year ahead of a rally in 2011, said Greetham, London-
based director of asset allocation at Fidelity International,
which has $215.9 billion under management. Even though leading
economic indicators are weakening, the current situation shows
“no more than a moderation in recovery,” he said.  
 The  MSCI World Index  has dropped 8.4 percent this year,
following a 27 percent climb in 2009, on mounting concern that
Europe’s worsening sovereign debt crisis will hurt the economy.
Data last week showed new-home sales in the U.S. sank to a
record low, while the Federal Reserve signaled that European
indebtedness may lead to a weaker U.S. economy.  
 “We’re ‘neutral’ equities, and we may sell more if there’s
sharp rally in the near term,” Greetham said from London in a
live webcast to reporters in Hong Kong. “Buying opportunities
will be marked out by when people are panicking. There’ll be a
lot of talks about double dip.”  
 Greetham, who manages the  Fidelity Funds-Multi Asset
Navigator Fund , said he has started buying gold. His funds,
which typically do one trade per month and sometimes less often,
sold stocks twice in May, he said.  
 “We’re in a multi-year sustainable recovery, and we’re
also in a bumpy year,” said Greetham. “By year end, we’ll have
good buying opportunities from people who are letting go.”  
 Stimulus Measures  
 Fidelity International is “overweight” the U.S., Asia,
and emerging markets, as well as in the consumer, technology and
healthcare industries, according to Greetham, who joined
Fidelity in January 2006 from Merrill Lynch & Co.  
 China announcing new measures to bolster  economic growth 
and holding off from raising interest rates will give investors
another reason to buy, according to the fund manager.  
 The Chinese government has been taking steps to cool
property prices in an economy that expanded 11.9 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, the fastest pace in almost
three years. Analysts are divided on whether China has done
enough to slow credit growth, with eight of 14 in a Bloomberg
News survey last week predicting the central bank will raise the
benchmark one-year lending rate by the end of December.  
 “Any signs of changing in China’s policies toward stimulus
will present great buying opportunities,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        