-- World Cup Blunders Prompt Blatter Apology, FIFA Review of Technology Use
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-06-29T16:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/fifa-president-blatter-says-use-of-technology-should-be-reconsidered.html

          
          
             Sepp Blatter  said soccer’s ruling
body will review the introduction of technology to aid referees
after two missed calls at the World Cup that were witnessed
first-hand by the FIFA president and millions watching on TV.  
 England was denied a goal in its 4-1 loss to Germany two
days ago when  Frank Lampard’s  shot clearly bounced over the
line. Hours later, Argentina’s  Carlos Tevez  scored the opening
goal in his team’s 3-1 win over Mexico from an offside position.  
 “It’s obvious that after the experience so far we have
made in this World Cup, it would be a nonsense to not reopen the
file on technology,” Blatter, who attended both matches, said
in Johannesburg today.  
 The International Football Association Board, soccer’s
lawmaking body, in March rejected goal-line technology. FIFA
General Secretary  Jerome Valcke  said as recently as three days
ago that the use of video replays “is not on the table.” The
board next meets in Cardiff, Wales, on July 20 and 21.  
 Blatter was in the stadium in Bloemfontein two days ago as
the referee and linesmen didn’t give England a goal in the
round-of-16 match. Replays showed Lampard’s shot went over the
line after coming off the crossbar with Germany leading 2-1 in
the first half.  
 Apologies  
 Tevez’s goal against Mexico was allowed to stand even
though replays on the stadium screen showed the Argentine
striker heading in from an offside position, prompting Mexican
players to surround the linesman who had missed the call.  
 Blatter said he apologized to English and Mexican officials
for the errors in their teams’ elimination.  
 “It was not five-star games for refereeing,” Blatter told
an invited group of reporters. “I have expressed to them the
apologies and I understand that they are not happy. We will
naturally take on board the discussion on technology and have
first opportunity in July.”  
 The headline in Johannesburg’s Citizen newspaper today read
“Sepp Blunder,” with the accompanying story criticizing the
FIFA chief for not heeding calls of players and coaches, who
said they supported technological assistance to referees.  
 Waiting on FIFA  
 U.K.-based  Hawkeye Innovations Ltd.,  which makes equipment
used to review line calls in tennis, has twice been involved
with trials for FIFA, while Munich, Germany-based  Cairos
Technologies AG  proposed the introduction of a microchip that
could determine if a ball had crossed the goal line.  
 The Hawkeye technology is “100 percent accurate,”
managing director  Paul Hawkins  said, adding that his company has
conducted tests in Reading, England, on behalf of FIFA and the
International Board.  
 “Hopefully the last couple of days will have persuaded
FIFA that what fans want are matches decided by the players and
not by the officials,” Hawkins said today in an interview. “We
will wait to see what FIFA decide. They have to fundamentally
decide whether football is a better game with technology.”  
 Blatter said that while microchips and video replays won’t
be considered, computer-based analysis may be an option.  
 ‘Marginal’  
 “Personally I deplore it when you see evident referee
mistakes, but it’s not the end of a competition or the end of
football, this can happen,” he said. “We have to live with the
errors of the referees.”  
 Before today’s match between Japan and Paraguay, referee
trainer Werner Helsen told reporters that 117 of the 122 goals
scored at the tournament in South Africa were “legal.”  
 “We all need to do what we can to decrease the number of
errors,” Helsen, who runs referee development programs, said in
Pretoria. “So far, in this tournament, the incorrect decisions
are marginal.”  
 England coach  Fabio Capello  said had Lampard’s goal been
allowed to stand it would have changed the course of the game
against Germany.  
 Blatter said the high-profile mistakes wouldn’t result in a
change during this tournament, which finishes July 11.  
 “We have the responsibility to take the adequate measures
to avoid such situations happening again,” Blatter said.
“However, I cannot accept that the integrity of the competition
and the referees is called into question.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Johannesburg at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Germany's goalkeeper Manuel Neuer eyes the ball after conceding a denied goal during the 2010 World Cup round of 16 football match Germany vs. England at Free State stadium in Mangaung/Bloemfontein. Photographer: Jewel Samad/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
