-- FIFA Says France Risk Ban From Competitions for Government Interference
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-06-29T11:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/fifa-says-france-risk-ban-from-competitions-for-government-interference.html

          
          
             France’s national team risks being
suspended from international competitions if the French
government is deemed to be interfering with the country’s
soccer federation, FIFA’s President  Sepp Blatter  said.  
 “If it cannot be solved by consultation then the only
thing we have is to suspend the federation,” he said at a press
conference in Johannesburg. “This is a clear message.”  
 Jean-Pierre Escalettes , president of the  French Football
Federation , resigned yesterday after the team was eliminated in
the first round of the World Cup, a sporting setback compounded
by a players strike and unsporting behaviour from the coach.  
 French Health Minister  Roselyne Bachelot-Narquin , who
counts sports within her portfolio, said in an interview on RTL
radio last week that Escalettes’ resignation was
“unavoidable.” President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said in a statement
last week that the government wants to review how the country’s
sports federations are managed.  
 After those comments, FIFA General Secretary  Jerome Valcke 
warned that football federations are “autonomous” and the
sport’s governing body would intervene if there was any
“political meddling.”  
 Blatter said today that FIFA would take action even if the
decisions were made “at a presidential level.”  
 FIFA temporarily suspended Iraq in 2008 after the
government imposed its choice as head of the country’s football
federation.  
 A spokeswoman for Bachelot said she had no comment. There
was no answer at the FFF’s press office.  
 Live Television  
 The French players refused to train after striker  Nicolas Anelka  was sent home June 20 for insulting coach  Raymond Domenech  at halftime of a 2-0 defeat to Mexico. The scene of the
players staying on the team bus while captain  Patrice Evra  went
to tell Domenech of their decision not to train, and then almost
coming to blows with the team’s physical trainer, was carried
live on several French television stations.  
 At the end of the final game against South Africa, Domenech
refused to shake hands with opposing coach  Carlos Alberto Parreira , who guided Brazil to the 1994 World Cup title.  
 The French, champions in 1998 and losing finalists at the
last World Cup four years ago, exited this year’s tournament
after losses to host South Africa and Mexico, and drawing with
Uruguay. The last win by the team in an international
competition was a 1-0 victory over Portugal in the 2006 World
Cup.  
 Both Escalettes and Domenech will be questioned by a
parliamentary committee tomorrow to elicit details about what
led to the player’s strike.  
 Euro 2008  
 Escalettes was instrumental in convincing the FFF’s board
to retain Domenech as coach after the team was eliminated in the
first round of the 2008 European Championships. Domenech was
already due to retire after this World Cup, and will be replaced
by  Laurent Blanc , a member of the winning 1998 team.  
 The FFF’s board is meeting July 2 to discuss the World Cup.
Only eight members of the 21-person board, which chooses the
national team coach, are from the world of professional football.
The rest represent the country’s amateur leagues, educators,
women’s football, or referees.  
 Bachelot said in a parliamentary debate last week that
“immature gang leaders” had bullied some of the younger
players into striking. Evra, defender  Eric Abidal , and record
goalscorer  Thierry Henry  gave interviews after returning from
South Africa saying the decision to strike was unanimous.  
 Henry also met Sarkozy at the Elysee presidential palace,
with neither side revealing details.  
 Editors: Bob Bensch, Antony Sguazzin.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@Bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        