-- Bank of England Mandate Clear If Inflation Pressures Persist, Fisher Says
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-06-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/fisher-says-boe-s-mandate-is-clear-on-inflation-if-pressure-is-sustained.html

          
          
             Bank of England Markets Director
 Paul Fisher  said the Monetary Policy Committee is clear on what
it would have to do if inflation pressures persist.  
 While “we need to be sensitive to the risk of tightening
policy prematurely,” Fisher said, “should it appear likely
that inflationary pressure is sustained at a higher level into
the medium term, then it is clear what our mandate would require
us to do.”  
 Fellow U.K. policy maker  Andrew Sentance  made the first
push for an interest-rate increase in almost two years this
month after  inflation  accelerated above the government’s 3
percent upper limit. Fisher said that while inflation should
ease from its current level, there are “risks on both sides.”  
 “Given the scale of the fall in demand, the downwards
pressure from the recession doesn’t appear to have been as
strong as it might have been,” Fisher said in a June 14 speech
in Liverpool, England, released by the Bank of England
yesterday. Business surveys imply “that the degree of spare
capacity in firms is rather less than implied by the fall in
output.”  
 However, while the risk of deflation “may have faded,” it
“hasn’t gone away and would require greater efforts to deal
with, if it materialised now,” the policy maker said.  
 Inflation Debate  
 Officials on the bank’s policy committee are balancing the
threat of  inflation  against the potential impact from the euro-
area sovereign debt crisis on U.K.  growth . Even as the officials
split on the decision to raise interest rates at their June 10
meeting, they unanimously voted to keep the size of their bond
holdings at 200 billion pounds ($302 billion).  
 While some said that the risk of  inflation  overshooting the
2 percent target had increased, according to minutes of the
meeting, others said that financial market developments pointed
to a shift in risks “slightly to the downside.”  
 The U.K.’s  inflation rate  rose to a 17-month high in April
and was at 3.4 percent in May. Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  has cautioned that the bank shouldn’t react to faster
inflation based solely on energy-cost and exchange-rate
fluctuations.  
 The pound  has lost about a quarter of its value on a trade-
weighted basis since the start of 2007, while the price of crude
oil has gained 75 percent since the start of 2009. Fisher said
his “best guess” is that the pound’s decline is “probably
adding between 1 and 2.5 percentage points to the current
inflation rate.”  
 The depreciation of sterling “in my view more likely
reflects a reappraisal of the U.K. economy give the financial
crisis and the significance of the financial sector to the
U.K.,” he said.  
 ‘Spare Capacity’  
 At the June 10 meeting, Sentance favored increasing the
Bank of England’s  benchmark interest rate  to 0.75 percent, while
the remaining seven members including Fisher voted to keep it at
0.5 percent.  
 “Given the expected degree of spare capacity in the
economy over the next few years, and that the temporary factors
should wear off, the most likely outcome is that inflation falls
back to below target over the next couple of years,” Fisher
said. “On that basis it was sensible not to try and offset the
recent rise in inflation by tightening policy.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        