-- Forint Leads Eastern Europe Lower, Stocks Fall on Growth, Budget Deficits
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-06-29T16:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/forint-leads-eastern-europe-lower-stocks-fall-on-growth-budget-deficits.html

          
          
             The Hungarian forint extended its
longest losing streak in a month, Romania’s leu dropped to a
record low and stocks fell across east Europe on concern that
global economic recovery may stall, hurting public finances.  
 The forint slid 0.6 percent to 287.18 per euro as of 4:55
p.m. in Budapest, a sixth day of losses and the biggest
depreciation among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The leu lost 0.4 percent to 4.3862 against the common
currency, hitting a record low for a second day against the
euro. The Polish zloty depreciated 0.2 percent to 4.1511 per
euro, a three-week low.  
 Stocks plunged worldwide, with the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index in New York sinking below its lowest closing level of the
year, after reports indicated China’s economy is slowing and
American consumer confidence is waning. The forint fell to the
weakest level on record against the Swiss franc and the zloty
traded at the lowest in 15 months versus the franc as investors
sought the relative safety of the Swiss currency.  
 “The sentiment on the markets is negative after the
figures in China showed growth may fall short of expectations,”
said  Nigel Rendell , a senior emerging-market strategist at RBC
Capital in London. “There is a general sense of risk aversion
so stocks and currencies are being sold.”  
 The benchmark Romanian  BET Index  slid 3.7 percent to the
lowest level in a month as oil company OMV Petrom SA and the
country’s second largest publicly traded lender Banca
Transilvania SA fell. Warsaw’s  WIG20  index dropped 2.6 percent,
the most in more than a month, as Bank Zachodni WBK SA in which
Allied Irish Banks Plc is selling a 70 percent stake, led
declines among Polish banks, losing 5 percent.  
 ‘Lack of Confidence’  
 The leu has plunged this week on concern Romania will
struggle to adopt austerity measures aimed to cut the budget
deficit and revive an international bailout loan. Hungary roiled
world markets this month after local politicians compared the
country’s finances to those of Greece, which required a European
Union and IMF bailout loan.  
 “There is a general lack of confidence,” said  Simon Quijano-Evans , the head of emerging-market research at Credit
Agricole Cheuvreux in Vienna. “We have all that fiscal noise
and the currencies bear the brunt of this.”  
 The New York-based Conference Board said its China leading
economic index rose 0.3 percent in April, less than the 1.7
percent gain reported June 15, indicating the world’s fastest
growing major economy may be losing momentum. The Conference
Board’s index of confidence among U.S. consumers slumped to 52.9
this month from a revised 62.7 in May.  
 Investors should stay away from the forint and the leu and
seek a “safe haven” in the Czech koruna as concerns about
public finances in Hungary and Romania keep their markets under
pressure, Danske Bank AS said. The forint will likely extend
losses, breaking through 290 per euro “within the next couple
of days,” the Danish lender wrote in a report today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        