-- GM Vehicles Getting Higher Prices as It Prepares IPO
-- David Welch
-- 2010-06-29T21:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/general-motors-vehicles-fetching-higher-prices-in-run-up-to-sale-of-stock.html

          
          
             General Motors Co., preparing for an
initial public offering as soon as the fourth quarter, said U.S.
consumers are paying more per vehicle than last year.  
 Customers in the U.S. are paying $3,000 more on average for
GM’s cars and trucks,  Mark Reuss , president of GM North America,
said today in a conference call as part of a daylong
presentation to analysts and potential investors.  
 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Ed Whitacre  and other
top executives gave a review of Detroit-based GM’s current
business operations, including restructuring in Europe, growth
in other markets and 85 percent capacity utilization in North
America. The U.S., which holds 61 percent of the automaker, may
sell 20 percent of its stake in the IPO, making it a minority
owner, said two people familiar with the plan.  
 “We are not re-introducing GM,” Whitacre told the
audience at the automaker’s technical center in Warren,
Michigan. “We are introducing a new GM.”  
 Chevrolet has 94 percent of the Uzbekistan market, said  Tim Lee , GM’s president of international operations. The automaker
also plans to grow “significantly” in South Korea, he said.  
 GM is now positioned to break even during troughs in
demand, Whitacre said. The management team is executing well, he
said.  
 Equity Value  
 The automaker’s equity is worth $70 billion, according to a
May 20 report by  Eric Selle , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. debt analyst
who projects a return of 47 cents on the dollar for holders of
bonds issued by GM’s predecessor, General Motors Corp., that
will be converted to stock and warrants in new GM. At today’s
bond prices, GM’s equity is worth about $47 billion.  
 GM, the maker of the GMC Terrain,  Cadillac  SRX and
Chevrolet Camaro, reported first-quarter net income of $865
million, helped by higher production and smaller discounts.
Chief Financial Officer  Chris Liddell  on May 17 called the
profit a “good, useful step” toward an IPO.  
 The company’s first-quarter operating profit was $1.2
billion in the first three months of the year, and the company
generated $1 billion in free cash flow, GM said. Revenue rose 40
percent from the same period a year earlier to $31.5 billion.  
 GM’s  Opel  and Vauxhall operations in Europe lost $506
million in the first quarter. GM is restructuring the business
with plans to take out 20 percent of its production capacity and
cut 8,300 jobs.  
 Changing Culture  
 GM is changing its culture by cutting the bureaucracy that
made the company so slow, said Vice Chairman  Steve Girsky . His
industry-analysis group used to prepare 94 reports a month, he
said, and now it does three.  
 The company also has been moving executives to other
operations within the company to bring different perspectives,
he said.  
 “That allows people to ask the basic stupid question that
hasn’t been asked for 30 years,” Girsky said.  
 Board members thought that managers had too many direct
reports, with some exceeding 20, Girsky said.  
 “Someone with 15 is pretty hard to find” now, he said.  
 GM has the opportunity to increase annual sales by about
2.6 million vehicles by 2014 if GM holds its market share in key
regions, Liddell said. He cited a forecast from Lexington,
Massachusetts-based research firm IHS Automotive that calls for
annual global auto sales to grow by 25 million vehicles by 2014.  
 GM has a “massive global opportunity if we are successful
maintaining market share,” Liddell said.  
 Reducing Debt  
 The automaker also needs to reduce its debt, Liddell said.
Debt, preferred shares held by the U.S. Treasury and underfunded
pension plans total $42.2 billion while GM has $30 billion in
cash, he showed in a  slide presentation .  
 GM’s pension plans are underfunded by $26.8 billion, GM
said. It doesn’t have to put any cash in now, Liddell said.  
 The company will probably have to put cash into the pension
fund, while investments could take care of some of the
shortfall, Liddell said.  
 “The pension plan is a huge continuing liability,”
Liddell said. “Almost certainly we will have to put cash in at
some stage. Once fully funded, we’ll change the investment
strategy to lock in.”  
 GM will most likely rely on outside lenders to finance the
sale of cars to consumers and dealers, Liddell said. Banks and
other financial institutions have better access to cheap funds
than GM, which doesn’t have investment-grade credit, he said.  
 Rather than saddle GM’s balance sheet with banking assets,
the company will find lenders to handle different types of
loans. GM has  AmeriCredit Corp.  handling subprime lending and
U.S. Bank for leasing and Ally Financial Inc., formerly GMAC
LLC, handling the bulk of dealer financing and car loans to
consumers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        