-- George Soros Talks Obama's Book in Threat to Euro: Amity Shlaes
-- Amity Shlaes
-- 2010-06-29T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/george-soros-talks-obama-s-book-in-threat-to-euro-amity-shlaes.html

          
          
             George Soros  has been making what he
calls a “grave accusation” against Germany. The financier-
philanthropist said last week that Germany is endangering the
European Union by keeping wages down and pursuing a balanced
national budget too aggressively. Germany’s parsimonious
attitude, Soros suggests, may bring down the euro.  
 You get the feeling that Soros is speaking directly to
 Angela Merkel , trying to give the German chancellor a kindly
tutorial. In a speech at Humboldt University, Soros said that
Germany had understandable reasons for pursuing thrift. But, he
added, the country should spend more and advocate aggressive
spending and looser money by the European Investment Bank and
the European Central Bank, respectively.  
 Soros implied that Germany should look to the U.S., where
President  Barack Obama  has spent vigorously and Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben Bernanke  has created money for the greater good.
Soros, the tutor again, underscored that Germany clearly “does
not know what it is doing.”  
 It is time to turn the question around, and make a grave
accusation against Soros. It is Soros who is endangering the
euro by advocating these spending and loosening policies. They
are policies that may give Europe budget problems that render
its currency vulnerable to attack by Soros-like traders.
Perhaps, like Merkel, Soros is doing his endangering for
understandable reasons. Nonetheless, the danger is there, and
worth laying out.  
 Currency Strains  
 Start with the euro’s creation, as Soros has. Europe
unified its monetary policy through the euro before it unified
politically, therefore sustaining member countries’ abilities to
pursue the kind of independent fiscal policies that can strain a
joint currency.  
 Soros labels this construct “patently flawed.” Clever is
another way to describe it. The enormous carrot of access to the
euro-land market incentivizes nations to apply the stick of
fiscal discipline to themselves. Under that plan, countries that
fail to apply the stick with alacrity face the unpleasant choice
of initiating extraordinary tax increases and budget cuts to
curtail debt or being forced out of the monetary union.  
 That happened to the U.K. back in the early 1990s, when
Soros cost the country $3 billion while he made $1 billion by
forcing Britain out of the European Exchange Rate Mechanism, the
euro precursor.  
 What Merkel Knows  
 As a former East German, Merkel has visceral knowledge of
the enormous waste of human capital that takes place in
countries lacking good currencies. Because the East German mark
of her young adulthood was a political fantasy rather than a
genuine currency, scientists such as Merkel couldn’t purchase
the equipment they needed to compete with Western scientists.  
 Germans like Merkel recall better than Americans what
happened when Soros’s raiders hit the U.K., so they know how
brutally any non-dollar currency, even the currency of a
regional leader, can be brought down.  
 Beyond Merkel’s personal memory there is the German
national memory of the 1920s hyperinflation. That resulted from
the decision of a desperate Weimar Republic to inflate its way
out of war debts. That hyperinflation so punished middle-class
savings and so weakened the 1920s economy that the average
German became more susceptible to maniacs like  Adolf Hitler  and
the communists.  
 Pressure on Germany from Soros, and for that matter, from
the Obama administration, makes it harder for Merkel or other
European leaders to heed their own sound instincts. Soros’s
pressure also obscures a desirable policy path for Germany, one
in which it practices fiscal discipline and growth creation so
well that other euro nations emulate it.  
 False Choice  
 The Keynesian argument that the choice is binary, between
spending and pain, is untrue. For one thing, deflation isn’t
always painful -- in the 1920s, even as Germany agonized, the
U.S. thrived during an American deflation. Budget tightening,
especially in combination with competitive tax codes, may put
all Europe on a growth path that renders its currency a true
competitor for the role of global leader over the long run.  
 The best defense of Soros is that Soros-recommended
stimuli by Germany and in euro-land will indeed yield strong
growth, and prevent one recession, just as he says. But what
happens after that recovery? Europe, like the U.S., isn’t
growing fast enough to continue spending its way out of every
recession. It is likely that German-tolerated euro-spending on a
big scale in 2010 or 2011 would render Europe’s nations the very
sort that vulnerable currency traders specialize in
annihilating.  
 The Obama administration for its part is being disingenuous
when it makes spending recommendations. As my colleague
 Sebastian Mallaby  at the Council on Foreign Relations notes, the
dollar’s status as the currency of reserve amounts to a sort of
Kevlar vest against the bullets of currency raiders. The euro
possesses no vest.  
 Soros wants to help the Obama administration and the
Keynesian spending that Democrats favor. If Europe spends, that
makes the U.S. look less isolated. A big spending Europe also
makes the euro less of a threat to the dollar. In any case, it
is hard to imagine that what Soros alleges about Germany is true
for Soros: that he just doesn’t understand what he is doing.  
 ( Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        