-- German Bonds Rise as Signs of Economic Slowdown Boost Demand for Refuge
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-06-29T16:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/german-bonds-rise-as-signs-of-economic-slowdown-boost-demand-for-refuge.html

          
          
             German government bonds rose,
pushing the yield on benchmark 10-year securities to the lowest
in almost three weeks, as signs the global economy is slowing
stoked demand for the safest fixed-income assets.  
 Bunds rose for the fifth time in six days as a decline in
stocks, prompted by speculation that China’s expansion may be
slowing, added to the allure of government bonds. A draft
European Union document said bank stress tests should assess the
effect of sovereign-debt shocks, reigniting concern that
regulators consider defaults to be a possibility for nations
such as Greece. Euro-region central banks stepped up purchases
of Greek, Portuguese and Irish debt, traders said.  
 “People are again looking for refuge in bunds,” said
 Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at WestLB AG in
Dusseldorf. “We are seeing some support from the data side, and
there are risks ahead. It’s the classic safe-haven scenario.”  
 The yield on the German bund fell three basis points to
2.55 percent as of 4:50 p.m. in London, after reaching 2.52
percent, the lowest since June 9. The 3 percent security
maturing in July 2020 gained 0.18, or 1.8 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,220) face amount, to 103.8.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares fell 1.6 percent to a
two-week low and the  Stoxx Europe  600 Index dropped 2.6 percent
after the Conference Board said its leading economic index for
China had the smallest gain in five months in April.  
 The gauge of the economy’s outlook compiled by the New
York-based Conference Board rose 0.3 percent, less than the 1.7
percent gain it reported June 15.  
 Yield Spread  
 The  difference in yield  between two-year and 10-year German
government securities narrowed to less than 200 basis points for
the first time this year as the signs of economic slowdown
spurred demand for longer-dated securities.  
 Germany’s government debt returned 4.1 percent this
quarter, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts’ Societies, driven by
investors seeking refuge as the crisis that started in Greece
threatened to derail the economic recovery. Spanish bonds lost
4.5 percent, while Greece’s debt handed investors an 18 percent
loss, the indexes showed. U.S. Treasuries gained 4.5 percent.  
 Purchases by the ECB of so-called peripheral bonds focused
on maturities of five years and below, with some buying interest
also shown for longer-maturity Greek bonds, said the traders,
who declined to be identified because the transactions are
confidential.  
 Greek Bonds  
 Greek two-year notes rose, sending the yield down 42 basis
points to 10.18 percent. The yield on 10-year Greek bonds fell
39 basis points to 10.58 percent.  
 The Irish two-year note yield fell 18 basis points to 2.8
percent and the yield on the Portuguese securities fell 18 basis
points to 3.51 percent.  
 Seeking to demonstrate that Europe’s financial system can
withstand shocks, EU leaders on June 17 agreed to disclose how
banks perform in the stress tests run by the Committee of
European Banking Supervisors in the second half of July.  
 “The question everybody’s asking is: Are you going to
include scenarios that involve the restructuring of Greek or
another countries’ debt?”  Bill Winters , the former co-chief
executive officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s investment bank,
said on Bloomberg Television on June 25. “If you do include it,
we already know the answer: There are real issues.”  
 Cash Needs  
 Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said she “hopes”
the European Central Bank is aware of lenders’ cash needs as the
ECB’s first 12-month loan expires this week.  
 Spanish banks are asking the ECB to ease the effects of the
end of a 442 billion-euro funding program, which terminates this
week, the Financial Times reported, citing bank executives.
Spain’s Salgado said on Cadena Ser radio in Madrid today that
she hopes “that on this occasion, as on others, the ECB is
aware of the needs of our financial system.”  
 German bonds may rise, and debt from peripheral euro-area
nations may drop, should bank demand for ECB funding hold steady
as the one-year loans come due this week, UniCredit SpA said.  
 “A large rollover would benefit bunds and put pressure on
yields of countries that, in recent months, have relied more on
ECB funding, Spain and Portugal in the first place,”  Luca Cazzulani , senior fixed-income strategist in Milan, said today
in a research report.  
 A low level of rollover would reduce “safe-haven demand”
for the German securities, he said.  
 German bonds stayed higher even after a report showed
European confidence in the economic recovery unexpectedly
improved in June.  
 An index of executive and consumer  sentiment  in the 16 euro
nations rose to 98.7 from 98.4 in May, the European Commission
in Brussels said today, beating the median estimate of 25
economists in a Bloomberg survey for a reading of 98.1.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        