-- Giants' Pick Chad Jones Moving to New York Hospital for Post-Crash Surgery
-- Mason Levinson
-- 2010-06-29T15:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/giants-pick-chad-jones-moving-to-new-york-hospital-for-post-crash-surgery.html

          
          
             New York Giants third-round draft
pick Chad Jones is being transferred to a New York hospital from
Louisiana for surgery, four days after being seriously injured
in a New Orleans car accident.  
 The National Football League team arranged for Jones, a
safety from Louisiana State University, to be flown to New York
Presbyterian Hospital-Weill Cornell Medical Center for plastic
surgery and possibly additional orthopedic procedures, the
Giants said in a news release.  
 “After consulting with our doctors, Chad’s doctors at LSU
and his family felt like this move to New York was the next
logical step in his care and recovery,”  Ronnie Barnes , the
Giants vice president of medical services, said in a statement.  
 Jones, 21, fractured his left leg and ankle in the June 25
single-car crash. He underwent eight hours of surgery to improve
blood flow in his foot.  
 Jones, who was driving shortly after 6 a.m. when he lost
control of the vehicle and hit a pole, was cited for careless
operation of a vehicle. Two passengers in the car sustained very
minor injuries, New Orleans police spokeswoman Shereese Harper
said in a telephone interview.  
 “We did not have an opportunity to take a blood test to
see if alcohol was a factor,” Harper said. “The officers on
the scene had no reason to believe alcohol was involved.”  
 The Giants picked Jones, 21, in April’s draft. He was also
selected by the Houston Astros in the 13th round of Major League
Baseball’s 2007 draft and again in the 50th round this year.  
 Jones played on LSU’s Bowl Championship Series national
title-winning football team during the 2007 season as a freshman
and on the Tigers’ National Collegiate Athletic Association
championship baseball team as a sophomore in 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        