-- Global Markets Face `Renewed Turbulence' on Deficits, Aberdeen Asset Says
-- Hanny Wan
-- 2010-06-29T04:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/global-markets-face-renewed-turbulence-on-deficits-aberdeen-asset-says.html

          
          
             Global financial markets will face
“renewed turbulence” as structural deficits and public debt in
Europe and the U.S. hamper economic growth, Aberdeen Asset
Management said.  
 Rising asset prices, driven by liquidity, could create
instability, said Aberdeen, which manages more than $243.1
billion of global assets. Emerging market officials need to
normalize their monetary policies, which may mean interest-rate
increases later this year or in 2011 as inflation accelerates,
according to a statement by Aberdeen.  
 “The emerging markets and, in particular, Asia remain
bright spots,”  Donald Amstad , director at Aberdeen Asset
Management Asia, said in the statement. “We see the larger
Asian economies with their expanding internal markets continuing
to decouple and this will support currency appreciation.”  
 The  MSCI World Index  has dropped 7.6 percent this year,
following a 27 percent rally in 2009. That compares with a 4.8
percent drop in the MSCI AC Asia Pacific Index this year. U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  on June 22 detailed
what the government called the biggest deficit cuts in peacetime,
spurring concern among equity investors that slower economic
growth may hurt returns.  
 ‘Buy’ Korea, Indonesia  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has declined 3.6 percent
this year after data last week shows new-home sales sank to a
record low and the Federal Reserve signaled that European
indebtedness may lead to a weaker U.S. economy.  
 Stephen Docherty , Aberdeen Asset Management’s head of
global equities, forecast returns for equity to be “in the
single digits” this year, without being more specific,
according to the statement.  
 China’s yuan will rise 3 percent to 5 percent per year in
the next “couple of years,” Amstad said at a media briefing in
Hong Kong today.  
 The People’s Bank of China pledged June 19 to make its
currency more flexible. The yuan had been held at 6.83 per
dollar since July 2008 after a 21 percent gain the three prior
years, in an effort to shield exporters from the global crisis.  
 Investors should buy stocks in other Asian countries
including Korea, Singapore and Indonesia, on expectations that
Asian currencies are generally going to appreciate, Amstad said.  
 Buying Hong Kong stocks, given the city’s currency is
linked to the U.S. dollar, probably  isn’t a good idea , he said.  
 “Patchy” economic data from the U.S. suggest that
monetary policy will stay “accommodative for longer than
previously envisaged,” Aberdeen said. Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis has forced nations to take drastic austerity measures to
retain confidence in stocks and bond markets, it said.  
 Deflation, or a general decline in prices, is possible
within the next few years, Nobel Prize-winning economist  Paul Krugman  said June 22.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        