-- Goldman Sachs More Responsive to FCIC After Subpoena
-- Hugh Son
-- 2010-06-29T20:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/goldman-being-more-responsive-to-crisis-panel-since-subpoena-member-says.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  has been
more responsive to information requests from the  Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission  since being subpoenaed and has made
Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  available for an
interview, the panel’s leaders said.  
 Blankfein was interviewed recently by FCIC staff “at
length,” commission Chairman  Phil Angelides  said today in a
conference call with journalists. Angelides said on June 7 that
the panel had subpoenaed Goldman Sachs after the bank tried to
hinder a probe by overwhelming the commission with documents.  
 “I have no question” that New York-based Goldman Sachs
will now cooperate with requests, FCIC Vice Chairman  Bill Thomas 
said today on the call. “It was the lack of specificity, or
even the acknowledgement that what we asked for was in the piles
of documents we got, that was cleared up.”  
 Goldman Sachs executives including Chief Financial Officer
 David Viniar  will testify at a two-day FCIC hearing beginning
tomorrow reviewing the role of derivatives in the recession.
Also scheduled to testify is  Joseph Cassano , the former  American
International Group Inc.  executive whose bets on subprime
mortgages led the insurer to the brink of collapse in 2008,
requiring a U.S. bailout.  
 “This hearing is focused on derivatives which is a subset,
obviously, of what Goldman does, and if you want to get some
answers that are useful and meaningful you’d probably ask the
people who were head of that subset,” Thomas said.  
 $12.9 Billion  
 After AIG’s bailout, Goldman Sachs collected $12.9 billion
tied to contracts with the New York-based insurer, including
derivatives.  
 AIG sold credit-default swaps to firms including Goldman
Sachs, Societe Generale SA and  Deutsche Bank AG  protecting them
against declines in the value of mortgages. When the housing
market collapsed, AIG didn’t have enough funds to honor its
contracts and turned to the U.S. for a rescue that swelled to
$182.3 billion. Cassano was interviewed for about five hours.  
 Goldman Sachs was sued in April by U.S. regulators for
misleading clients who invested in collateralized debt
obligations. The Securities and Exchange Commission said that
investors weren’t told that the hedge fund led by  John Paulson 
helped pick the mortgages in the CDOs and was betting on them to
fail. Goldman Sachs has said the suit is unfounded.  
 Goldman Sachs, the highest-paying and most profitable firm
in Wall Street history, has been criticized by lawmakers as a
symbol of greed and excess. AIG and failed securities firm Bear
Stearns Cos. are among companies hobbled by losses on
investments from Goldman Sachs.  
 Credit-Default Swaps  
 The commission is investigating the causes of the credit
crisis, which followed the collapse of the housing market
beginning in 2007 and sparked the worst recession since the
1930s and the loss of more than  8 million  U.S. jobs. It will
report its findings to Congress and President  Barack Obama  by
December.  
 Derivatives such as credit-default swaps contributed to the
crisis, making it difficult for regulators to understand how
interconnected financial firms had become after the bankruptcy
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        