-- Goldman's Hodgson Named Special Adviser by Carney at Bank of Canada
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-06-29T21:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/goldman-s-hodgson-named-special-adviser-by-carney-at-bank-of-canada.html

          
          
             The Bank of Canada named Goldman
Sachs Canada Chief Executive Officer  Timothy Hodgson  as a
special adviser to Governor  Mark Carney , who also worked at the
investment bank.  
 Hodgson will work on developing rules for trading repos and
over-the-counter derivatives, and regulations to ensure banks
have enough capital, the Ottawa-based central bank said in a
statement today. A repo is a short-term contract to sell and
repurchase a security, and derivatives are securities whose
value depends on the value of another asset, such as crude oil.  
 “The bank is privileged that someone of his experience has
chosen public service at this critical time,” Carney said in a
statement. Carney and Hodgson worked together at Goldman Sachs
in New York from 1998-2000, Bank of Canada spokesman  Jeremy Harrison  said.  
 Canada and other Group of 20 nations are crafting rules to
have derivatives traded more through clearinghouses with
standardized contracts, Carney said in a June 10 speech in
Montreal. The global credit crisis was caused in part by
questions about the solvency of banks that led to the breakdown
of trading in important financial markets, he said in Montreal.  
 Carney earlier today was named to lead a group at the Bank
for International Settlements that monitors global financial
markets.  
 Ivey Graduate  
 Hodgson will work for an 18-month term in Toronto starting
Sept. 1. He will serve on bank committees that review
developments affecting monetary policy and the health of the
financial system.  
 Hodgson was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, and has a Master of
Business Administration degree from the Ivey School of Business
at the University of Western Ontario. He has served as the head
of Goldman’s Canadian unit since 2005, and joined the firm in
1990.  
 Jack Curtin  will replace Hodgson at Goldman Sachs on July
1, the New York-based company said today in a staff memo. Curtin
was chief executive of the bank’s Canadian unit from 1995 to
2000, and became chairman in 2002. He joined the firm in 1976
and is based in Toronto.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        