-- Greeks Walk Off Job to Protest Overhaul to Pensions, Labor Laws
-- Natalie Weeks
-- 2010-06-29T09:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/greeks-stage-national-strike-to-protest-overhaul-to-pensions-labor-laws.html

          
          
             Greek unions staged their fifth
general strike of the year, halting ferries, public transport
and other state services to protest government plans to cut
pension benefits and loosen labor laws.  
 The  General Confederation of Labor, or GSEE , Greece’s
largest union group for workers at private companies, and ADEDY,
the civil servants’ organization, are holding a rally and march
on parliament in Athens. The 24-hour stoppage includes maritime
engineers at Piraeus, Greece’s largest port.  
 “We are faced with almost the totaling of Greece’s social
security and labor system,” ADEDY Chairman  Spyros Papaspyrou 
said by telephone. “We want the overturn of the harsh and anti-
social measures and remain committed to this struggle.”  
 Greece is in the midst of its biggest upheaval since
joining the euro nine years ago after being forced to take
action to avoid a debt default. Reforms to pensions and the way
workers are hired and fired are required by the European Union
and International Monetary Fund in return for the 110 billion
euros ($135 billion) of emergency loans agreed in May.  
 Greek pensioners on average live on 96 percent of the
salary they had when they worked, more than twice the proportion
of earnings as Germans, according to the  Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development . The Paris-based group
called the system a “fiscal time bomb.”  
 Companies are prevented from dismissing any more than 2
percent of their workforce in any given month, just as the Greek
economy is mired in its first recession since 1993.  
 ‘Doing Our Job’  
 “Striking is an irremovable right of the Greek people and
of every worker, but we are steadily doing our job,” government
spokesman  George Petalotis  said in an e-mailed transcript of
comments made in Athens yesterday. Reforms must be pushed
through “as the situation had really reached its limits.”  
 Ferry services at Piraeus, the gateway port to the Aegean
islands, were disrupted by protesters.  
 The port strike, organized by PAME, the umbrella body for
labor groups linked to Greece’s communist party, was called to
demand changes to the “anti-social measures” being imposed,
the Panhellenic Union of Merchant Marine Engineers said in a
statement posted on its website.  
 The Piraeus district attorney ruled the strike illegal,
 Imerisia newspaper  reported, without saying where it obtained
the information.  
 Papandreou’s Measures  
 Prime Minister  George Papandreou , whose union-backed Pasok
party prevailed in elections last October, so far has reduced
wages for state workers, trimmed some retirement benefits, and
raised sales, fuel and alcohol taxes.  
 Papandreou, 58, argues the measures, to tame a budget
deficit of 13.6 percent of economic output, are needed to
prevent the country from defaulting on its debts.  
 Pension reforms include increasing the retirement age to 65
from 60 for women, curtailing early retirement, increasing the
number of contribution years and calculating payments over a
longer period of employment. The bill will be the first enacted
since the May 6 package that pledged 30 billion euros of wage
and pension cuts and tax increases over the next three years.  
 Labor Market  
 When it comes to the job market, the  Labor Ministry  plans
to allow companies to fire 5 percent of their workers. Newcomers
would be paid 84 percent of the minimum wage in a bid to boost
employment among those aged between 15 and 29.  
 The unemployment rate for that group was more than 22
percent in the first quarter of this year compared with 18.5
percent last year. Greece’s main jobless rate rose in the first
quarter to a 10-year high of 11.7 percent  
 “The main target of the new labor market law is to improve
the flexibility in a market that’s considered, together with
Portugal and to some extent France, as the most inflexible in
the euro area,” said Nicholas Magginas, an economist at
National Bank of Greece SA.  
 The GSEE union calls plans to cut severance pay, abolish
terms of collective-bargaining agreements and raise the ceiling
on firing workers an “assault” on workers.  
 The  ASE  Index declined 1.23, or 0.1 percent, to 1,445.92 as
of 11:35 a.m. in Athens trading, on course for a sixth day of
losses. Ten-year Greek government bonds yielded 812 basis points
more than comparable German debt today, that so-called  spread 
widening from 800 basis points yesterday.  
 Backlash  
 The backlash in Greece has been evident all year. In
parliament, three of Papandreou’s lawmakers rebelled over the
May 6 package, leading the premier to expel them from Pasok.
That left him with 157 lawmakers in the 300-seat chamber.  
 Three people were killed a day earlier after demonstrators
set fire to a bank in Athens as protests and strikes became a
daily event in the country.  
 Last week, members of the Communist Party-affiliated PAME
union group prevented Greeks and foreign tourists from boarding
ferries at the country’s largest port, just as the key summer
season gets under way. Greece said it will pay for board and
lodgings for tourists unable to leave the country because of
industrial action or natural disasters.  
 Tourism is Greece’s largest industry accounting for about
16 percent of gross domestic product and around one in five
jobs, according to the  World Travel and Tourism Council .  
 Tomorrow, catering and tourist industry employees plan
another 24-hour strike.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Prime minister George Papandreou argues the measures, to tame a budget deficit of 13.6 percent of economic output, are needed to prevent the country from defaulting on its debts. Photographer: Peter Foley/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
