-- GTL Says It May Pursue Further Acquisitions, Lead Wave of Telecom Mergers
-- Ketaki Gokhale
-- 2010-06-30T11:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/gtl-says-it-may-pursue-further-acquisitions-lead-wave-of-telecom-mergers.html

          
          
             GTL Infrastructure Ltd. , the company
that’s buying billionaire  Anil Ambani ’s mobile-phone towers,
said it’s open to more acquisitions as intensifying competition
pushes India’s telecommunications industry toward consolidation.  
 “If any existing tower company came in for consolidation,
and that made business sense, we’d look at it,” Chairman  Manoj Tirodkar  said in an interview in Mumbai yesterday. “I see
ultimately India having one, or maximum two, tower companies.”  
 Tirodkar said GTL’s purchase of assets from  Reliance
Communications Ltd.  may lead a wave of mergers, extending the
record year for acquisitions in the world’s second-largest
wireless market. Telstra Corp. and Emirates Telecommunications
Corp. are among global carriers that have said they’re
considering investing in India, a country that’s adding more
mobile-phone customers each month than any other market.  
 “We might see movement among India’s telecom operators to
prune their assets, putting towers and other telecom hardware in
the hands of a single entity,” said  Ajay Parmar , an analyst at
Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd. in Mumbai. “It’s a good
development for investors. Telecom stocks across the board are
probably going to rise.”  
 GTL , set to become the second-largest tower company in
India with an enterprise value of about $11 billion on
completion of the deal, surged as much as 20 percent in Mumbai
trading the day after it was announced. The shares fell 1
percent to 47.20 rupees at the close of trading. The Mumbai-
based company on June 27 said it agreed with Reliance, India’s
second-largest wireless carrier, to buy its transmission towers.
 Reliance  rose 2.6 percent to 198.3 rupees today.  
 Paying 33% Premium  
 GTL will likely pay about $3.9 billion for Reliance’s
transmission towers, or 33 percent more than the book value of
the assets, according to estimates from Macquarie Group Ltd. on
June 28. That would raise the total value of deals involving
local telecommunications companies this year to about $20
billion and exceed the previous record set in 2005 by about 20
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Mukesh  and Anil Ambani, the billionaire brothers who split
up India’s second-largest business empire after their father’s
death in 2002, may be among the most active dealmakers.  
 Anil’s Reliance Communications said this month it may sell
26 percent of itself to a strategic buyer or private equity
firm.  
 Mukesh Ambani ’s flagship Reliance Industries Ltd. will make
“mega” investments in power and telecommunications, the
billionaire said June 18 at the company’s shareholders’ meeting.  
 Reliance’s Spectrum Deal  
 Reliance Industries , India’s largest company by market
value, agreed on June 11 to pay about $1 billion to buy Infotel
Broadband Services Ltd. for the right to be the only nationwide
provider of wireless Internet services that may use the Wimax
technology currently being rolled out in the U.S. and Japan.  
 India had 601 million mobile-phone subscribers as of April,
second only to China’s 787 million. Operators are adding more
than 15 million customers a month as 8 out 10 people in rural
areas still don’t own a handset. The number of wireless Internet
users in the country will probably jump to 100 million in five
years from 1.3 million now, according to Mumbai-based Crisil
Research, a unit of The McGraw-Hill Cos.  
 Penny a Minute  
 As competition drives down costs of voice calls to less
than a penny a minute, Indian companies are turning to third-
generation technology to revive earnings by offering faster
mobile data services, with operators including  Vodafone Plc ’s
Indian unit and Idea Cellular Ltd. paying 509.7 billion rupees
($11 billion) to the government for licenses.  
 The phone companies will now spend as much as $5.4 billion
over the next two years readying their networks to offer
connections that allow faster Internet browsing, downloads of
movies and streaming video via smartphones, said  Shubham Majumder , head of regional telecommunications research at
Macquarie in Mumbai.  
 Foreign companies, which haven’t made any major
telecommunications acquisitions since Japan’s  NTT DoCoMo Inc. 
bought 26 percent of Tata Teleservices Ltd. last year, may be
ready to revive their appetite for Indian assets as the
conclusion of the government’s auction of 3G licenses allows
them to choose domestic partners, according to investors such as
 Navneet Munot . Phone companies are required to team up with an
Indian company to offer services in the country.  
 ‘Lot More Activity’  
 “Spectrum is going to be one of the scarcest commodities
of the century,” said Munot, who oversees about $9 billion as
chief investment officer at SBI Funds Management Pvt. in Mumbai.
“With the government spectrum auctions, the entry of new
players with deep pockets, and given rapid changes in
technology, we expect a lot more activity going forward.”  
 Emirates Telecom, known as  Etisalat , is “studying”
investment opportunities in India,  Ahmed Bin Ali , a spokesman at
Abu Dhabi-based company, which has a unit in India, said in
June. Telstra, Australia’s biggest phone company, said in
November it filed an application to expand into the country.  
 The Russian government will buy a 20 percent stake in
Sistema Shyam TeleServices Ltd., an Indian mobile operator
currently 74 percent owned by Moscow-based AFK Sistema, for more
than $600 million by as early as September, Sistema Shyam Chief
Executive Officer  Vsevolod Rozanov  said June 23.  
 Bharti Infratel  
 Other stake sales may also be in the works.  Sanjay Kapoor ,
chief executive of  Bharti Airtel Ltd. , India’s largest carrier,
said on April 28 an initial share sale of tower unit Bharti
Infratel Ltd. is possible. Bharti’s tower assets include about
30,000 towers, according to the company website.  
 “There’s Vodafone and Idea, who have towers that are
available potentially for either a sale or an alliance,” GTL’s
Tirodkar said. “Very clearly, Bharti has towers that could also
be consolidated.”  
 Reliance Communications is also considering raising cash by
selling as much as 26 percent of its Reliance Globalcom unit,
which owns a private undersea cable system, for as much as $500
million, the Hindu BusinessLine reported June 17.  
 “Consolidation is necessary for the passive infrastructure
business to make sense, for it to be profitable,” said  Vetri Subramaniam , who helps oversee about $3 billion at Mumbai-based
Religare Asset Management Co. “I think there’s a lot more that
needs to happen.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        