-- Imperial to Meet Kumba Iron Ore About Sishen Mine Access Within Two Weeks
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-06-29T16:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/imperial-to-meet-kumba-iron-ore-about-sishen-mine-access-within-two-weeks.html

          
          
             Imperial Crown Trading, a South
African company which was earlier this year awarded prospecting
rights at the world’s fourth-largest source of seaborne iron
ore, plans to hold talks with  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd.  about access
to the deposit within the next two weeks.  
 “It doesn’t look like Kumba wants to grant us access,”
said  Jagdish Parekh , who owns 50 percent of Imperial through his
Pragat Investments vehicle, by phone from Johannesburg. The
miner has requested a meeting with Imperial’s lawyers, he said.  
 Kumba, majority owned by  Anglo American Plc , is challenging
a decision by South Africa’s Department of Mineral Resources to
award Imperial 21.4 percent of the prospecting rights for
Sishen, Africa’s largest open-pit iron ore mine.  
 Kumba, which owns the remaining rights in the mine through
its Sishen Iron Ltd. unit, has denied Imperial access to the
site because aerial surveys would halt blasting at the site,
internet news service  Sake24  reported yesterday, citing Robert
Botha, Kumba’s legal head.  
 The Sishen mine, in South Africa’s Northern Cape province,
opened in 1947 and last year produced 34.2 million metric tons
of the steelmaking ingredient.  
 The disputed prospecting rights reverted to the state after
the previous holder, steelmaker  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. ,
failed to renew them before a May 2009 deadline.  
 Kumba is disputing the award of the rights to Imperial and
has lodged an objection and two appeals with the Department of
Mineral Resources, all of which are still to be heard.  
 A company can’t apply for prospecting rights at a property
that already has a mining rights holder, unless it’s for a
different mineral,  Sandile Nogxina , director general of the
department of Mineral Resources, said in a text message today.  
 Imperial initially applied for 100 percent of the
prospecting rights at Sishen, according to Kumba. Imperial only
ever applied for the share vacated by ArcelorMittal South
Africa, Parekh said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        