-- Indian Oil Says Scrapping of Fuel Subsidies Helps to Consider Share Sale
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-06-29T10:56:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/indian-oil-says-free-fuel-pricing-to-help-refiner-s-plans-for-share-sale.html

          
          
             India’s decision to free gasoline
and diesel prices from state control will help in selling shares
of  Indian Oil Corp. , the nation’s second-biggest refiner,
Chairman  B.M. Bansal  said.  
 A share sale in the refiner,  79 percent  owned by the
government, will depend on market conditions and a time frame
hasn’t been set, Bansal said by telephone today.  
 Indian Oil surged to a record yesterday after the
government deregulated gasoline prices last week and said diesel
rates would eventually be freed. Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  aims to raise 400 billion rupees ($8.6 billion) in the
year ending March 31 by selling stakes in state-run companies
including  Coal India Ltd.  and  Steel Authority of India Ltd.  to
help pay for the biggest budget deficit reduction in 19 years.  
 “The government will raise a bounty and it helps meet much
of its money-raising plans,” said  Rohit Ahuja , a Mumbai-based
analyst for Centrum Broking Ltd. “This is the best opportunity
for the government to sell shares, with prices being driven up
this way.”  
 Indian Oil  shares  fell 1.1 percent to 393.35 rupees in
Mumbai trading compared with a 1.4 percent decline in the
benchmark  Sensitive Index . The stock has gained 15 percent since
June 24, the day before the government announcement on fuel
prices.  
 Cash, Debt  
 Indian Oil and state-run rivals  Bharat Petroleum Corp.  and
 Hindustan Petroleum Corp.  sell fuels at government-set prices to
help curb  inflation  in India, where consumer prices are rising
at the fastest pace among G20 nations. The refiners will not
have any loss on gasoline sales after the June 25 decision,
according to Oil Secretary  S. Sundareshan .  
 The freeing of gasoline prices and an increase in cooking
gas and kerosene rates will help boost Indian Oil’s  cash flows 
and reduce debt, Bansal said. The New Delhi-based refiner’s
daily revenue loss from selling fuels below cost will fall to
850 million rupees from 1.2 billion rupees, Bansal said in an
interview with Bloomberg UTV yesterday.  
 Fitch Ratings revised its outlook on Indian Oil and
Hindustan Petroleum to stable from negative and affirmed their
ratings. The government’s move toward market prices will also
improve liquidity and reduce the interest costs of state
refiners, Abhinav Goel of Fitch said in a statement today.  
 The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  has declined
1.1 percent since Sundareshan announced the fuel price changes,
while the  BSE Oil & Gas Index  has increased 3.8 percent in the
period.  
 Improved Valuations  
 State-run  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. , the biggest energy
explorer that bears part of the fuel subsidy, has gained 9.8
percent since June 24. ONGC sells crude at a discount while the
government gives bonds or cash as compensation to state refiners.  
 “The decision reduces a lot of uncertainty of
profitability,”  R.S. Sharma , chairman of ONGC, said by
telephone today. “That helps increase valuations and we have
seen that in the past two days.”  
 Indian Oil is among 3,000 listed companies that need to
sell shares after a new government rule raised the minimum
public holding level to 25 percent.  
 The government may sell a stake in Indian Oil by March 31,
Sidhartha Pradhan, joint secretary in the department of
disinvestment, said April 27. India plans to sell shares in one
state-run company almost every month.  
 The planned initial public offering by Coal India, the
world’s largest producer of the fuel, may take place in
September when markets improve, Coal Minister  Sriprakash Jaiswal 
said June 2. State-owned Coal India planned to raise as much as
130 billion rupees in a share sale in July, two government
officials said in April.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        