-- Rupee Weakens as Global Recovery Jitters Shore Up Support for U.S. Dollar
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-06-29T11:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/india-rupee-weakens-as-global-recovery-jitters-shore-up-support-for-dollar.html

          
          
             India’s rupee weakened for the first
time in three days as concern the global economic recovery will
stall prompted investors to favor the perceived safety of the
dollar over emerging-market assets.  
 Currencies and benchmark stock indexes fell across most of
Asia’s developing economies after a  gauge  that tracks the
greenback’s strength climbed by the most in three weeks. Japan’s
factory output and household spending slipped in May and the
unemployment rate unexpectedly increased, government reports
showed today. The New York-based Conference Board corrected its
April measure for the outlook of China’s economy, revising
downward the index of key indicators.  
 “The rupee’s tracking the weakness in stocks and the
dollar’s rebound because the latest economic reports from Asia
aren’t particularly encouraging,” said  Krishnamurthy Harihar ,
Mumbai-based treasurer at the Indian unit of South Africa’s
FirstRand Ltd. “In the medium term, we should see the rupee
gradually appreciating, driven by fundamentals.”  
 The rupee fell 0.6 percent to 46.485 per dollar as of the 5
p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It reached a one-week low of 46.61 on June 25 and Harihar
forecast the currency to trade between 46.25 and 46.75 this week.  
 Offshore forwards indicated the Indian currency will trade
at 47 to the dollar in three months, compared with expectations
of 46.69 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  
 The  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, rose 0.6 percent,
the most since June 4, extending yesterday’s 0.4 percent advance,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  lost 1.4
percent, tracking a 1.6 percent decline in the  MSCI Asia Pacific
Index  of regional shares.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on Indian currency research: TNI INB ANAFX BN <GO>
Most read Indian currency and bonds stories: MNI INB BN <GO>
For Indian rupee forecasts: FXFC INR <GO>  
          
          


  


        