-- Insurers' Sales, Margins May Drop on New Rules for Products, UBS Says
-- Pooja Thakur
-- 2010-06-29T10:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/insurers-sales-margins-may-drop-on-new-rules-for-products-ubs-says.html

          
          
             Indian insurers’ sales and margins
will decline because of new rules on unit-linked insurance
products that propose to cap charges and increase the investment
period, UBS AG said.  
 The  Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority  capped
some charges and raised the minimum investment period for unit-
linked insurance plans to five years from three, it said in a
statement late yesterday. The regulator also set 4.5 percent as
the minimum annual guaranteed return for unit-linked pension
plans. The new rules will be effective from Sept. 1.  
 “We believe these restrictive norms on ULIPs are likely to
impact volumes adversely,”  Vishal Goyal , an analyst at UBS,
said in a note to clients yesterday. A “fresh cap on charges on
lapsed and surrendered policies may impact margins adversely.”  
 The new rules could reduce investments in stocks by
insurers, who helped boost the benchmark  Sensitive Index  81
percent in 2009, making India the third-best performing equity
market in Asia.  
 UBS expects volume growth for ULIPs to remain flat in the
year ending March 31 because of the new rules, compared to an
earlier forecast of a 10 percent to 15 percent growth rate. The
brokerage cut valuations for insurance companies by between 5
percent and 10 percent.  
 The insurance regulator tightened the rules after a spat
with the stocks regulator over the jurisdiction of unit-linked
products. The  Securities and Exchange Board of India  on April 9
barred 14 life insurers from selling the products, saying they
were like mutual fund plans and were sold without obtaining the
approval of the stock market watchdog. The insurance regulator
on April 10 countered the ban.  
 The government changed the rules on unit-linked plans on
June 18, giving the insurance regulator the authority to govern
the products. Unit-linked products are insurance plans sold by
life insurers that invest the funds in equity and debt markets.  
 “We believe the revised guidelines on ULIPs will reduce
insurance companies’ leeway in product design, negatively temper
margins, increase capital requirements and delay the breakeven
period,”  Nischint Chawathe  and  Manish Karwa , analysts at Kotak
Securities Ltd., said in a note to clients today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        