-- IPhone Accessory Makers Benefit After Jobs Recommends Cases
-- Adam Satariano
-- 2010-06-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/iphone-accessory-makers-see-benefit-after-jobs-recommends-cases-as-fix.html

          
          
             IPhone accessory makers are getting
an unexpected boost from  Apple Inc. ’s recommendation that users
buy a case to fix a glitch on their phones.  
 “It is good news,” said Tim Hickman, founder and chief
executive officer of  Hard Candy Cases  in San Francisco. Apple’s
suggestion may add allure to an already popular accessory, he
said. “The demand is there and Apple has built it.”  
 Apple made the recommendation after last week’s debut of
the iPhone 4, which drew complaints that it loses reception when
held a certain way. The company advised customers to hold it
differently or use a case. While that solution has irked some
buyers, it could benefit Hard Candy, Belkin International Inc.
and other accessory sellers -- including Apple itself.  
 The cases, typically made of rubber, plastic or recycled
materials, are already part of a growing market. Mobile
accessories generated $135 million in U.S. revenue in the first
quarter, according to NPD Group Inc. That indicates annual sales
of more than $500 million.  
 “Consumers are putting more information on these products
and they are relying on them more, so they are more willing to
invest in protecting them,” said  Ross Rubin , an analyst with
Port Washington, New York-based NPD.  
 It’s too early to tell whether the proposed fix for the
antenna problem will boost case sales, Rubin said.  
 ‘Thong Underwear’  
 Apple is selling its own iPhone 4 cases in six colors for
$29 each. They’re made of a piece of rubber known as a “bumper,”
which surrounds the outer rim of the phone. The accessory
doesn’t cover the back or front of the device, prompting the
iPhonesavior.com blog to call it “the thong underwear of
protective iPhone fashion.”  
 Shaw Wu , a San Francisco-based  analyst  with Kaufman Bros.
LP, said Apple may have to start giving away the bumpers with
the purchase of a phone as a way to alleviate customer concerns.  
 Accessory sales are “almost pure profit” for the company,
said Wu, who recommends investors buy Apple stock and doesn’t
own it himself.  
 “The meat and potatoes of their business are still core
products -- the accessories are the gravy,” he said.  
 Natalie Harrison , a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, declined to comment beyond the company’s remarks on
the antenna last week.  
 Toilet-Paper Holder  
 The release of a new iPhone every year since 2007, along
with devices like the iPad and iPod, has fostered a diverse
accessories market. The products include speakers, chargers,
headsets, scratch-retardant screen covers and exercise kits.  
 IPod accessory makers have even  produced  an aluminum
bulletproof case, a leather holder that resembles underwear and
a docking station that doubles as a toilet-paper holder.  
 Manufacturers of more traditional fare range from large
corporations like  Royal Philips Electronics NV  to startups such
as Hard Candy. Belkin,  Incase , IFrogz and Cozip also make phone
cases, which generated $23.5 million in U.S. sales in the first
quarter, up 43 percent from a year earlier, according to NPD.  
 Apple has been “pretty aggressive” in releasing new
gadgets, said Mack McCoy, who does marketing for the iPhone
accessories division of Playa Vista, California-based Belkin.
“All of this opens up new avenues for us to play with.”  
 With the iPhone 4, Apple changed the design of its antenna,
embedding it in the steel-frame chassis. It used to be stored
internally. Some customers found that their reception drops out
if they hold the bottom-left corner of the device. They’ve taken
to blogs, YouTube and online forums to air their complaints.  
 Rabbit-Ear Effect  
 The human body can absorb wireless signals, causing
potential problems when skin comes into contact with an antenna,
said Raj Rajkumar, an  engineering professor  at Carnegie Mellon
University in Pittsburgh.  
 “Its like when you touch the rabbit ear antennas on an old
TV, you affect the reception of the signal,” Rajkumar said.  
 Even so, not all customers have had problems. Apple Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  has called the matter a “non
issue,” according to an e-mail exchange posted on the
MacRumors.com website.  
 Peter Gloria, founder of Los Angeles-based TRTL BOT, which
makes iPhone cases out of recycled materials, said they are
designing a case for the iPhone 4’s body shape.  
 The product’s newest selling point? “It will fix your
antenna,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Apple made the recommendation that iPhone  users buy a case to fix a glitch on their 
phones following complaints that the iPhone 4 loses reception when held a certain way.  Photographer Rupert Hartley/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Kevin Keller, a hardware analyst at market research firm ISuppli Corp., talks about Apple Inc.'s new iPhone 4, which went on sale June 24.
     Keller talks with Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker reports on today's top technology news. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
