-- Iraq's Maliki, Allawi to Meet in Effort to End Deadlock on Next Government
-- Caroline Alexander
-- 2010-06-29T15:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/iraq-s-maliki-allawi-to-meet-in-effort-to-end-deadlock-on-next-government.html

          
          
             The two frontrunners in Iraq’s March
7 parliamentary elections were meeting in Baghdad for talks on
speeding up the formation of a new government.  
 Prime Minister  Nuri al-Maliki  arrived at the office of
former premier  Ayad Allawi  at around 6:15 p.m. local time today,
the state-sponsored al-Iraqiyah television reported.  
 A senior adviser to al-Maliki, Hassan al-Saneed, told the
state-owned Sabah newspaper yesterday he expected the meeting
would “lead to important results.” Parliament is likely to
convene for a second time on July 17, al-Saneed said.  
 Both Allawi, who was backed by mainly Sunni Muslim voters,
and al-Maliki, head of a Shiite Muslim alliance, claim the right
to form the new government as leader of the largest bloc in the
325-seat parliament. Neither has secured the backing of enough
lawmakers to be named prime minister.  
 The political uncertainty comes as the Obama administration
prepares to cut U.S. troops in Iraq from about 86,000 to 50,000
by September, ahead of a full withdrawal next year.  
 Allawi’s Iraqiyah bloc earlier today denied reports on
Iraqi websites that it had entered into an agreement that would
give Allawi the presidency and al-Maliki the premiership, Dubai-
based al-Sharqiyah television reported. Al-Saneed also denied
that such a deal existed, al-Sharqiyah said.  
 Iraqiyah came first in the vote, winning 91 seats. Al-
Maliki’s State of Law group was second with 89. After the poll,
State of Law merged with its Shiite former rivals, the Iraqi
National Alliance, giving them a combined total of 159 seats. A
political group needs 163 seats to form a government.  
 Parliament convened for the first time June 14 in a session
that lasted 15 minutes before it was adjourned for more talks on
forming the cabinet.  
 Since the elections, Allawi and al-Maliki have met once.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        