-- Japan's Benchmark Bond Yields Drop to Seven-Year Low on Slowdown Concern
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-06-30T07:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/japan-s-bonds-may-rise-for-second-day-on-signs-global-economy-is-slowing.html

          
          
             Japanese  bonds  rose, sending 10-
year yields to a seven-year low, as signs the global economic
recovery may stall triggered declines in stocks and spurred
demand for government debt as a refuge.  
 Japan’s bonds completed their best first half since 2005,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Economists said reports this week will show slowing growth in
U.S. business activity and Chinese manufacturing, signaling the
global economy is feeling the pinch from Europe’s debt crisis
and fiscal consolidation among developed countries.  
 “Economic data are showing weakness while stocks are
falling and the yen is gaining, all of which serve as catalysts
for bond buying,” said  Seiji Shiraishi , chief economist for
Japan at HSBC Holdings Plc in Tokyo. “Ten-year yields may test
the psychologically important 1 percent level and stay below
that mark for an extended period of time.”  
 The yield of the benchmark 10-year bond hit 1.075 percent,
the lowest since Aug. 15, 2003, before trading 1.085 percent as
of 4:01 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s
largest interdealer debt broker. The price of the 1.3 percent
bond due June 2020 rose 0.090 to 101.932 yen. Benchmark yields
on June 24 fell below 1.15 percent for the first time since Aug.
18, 2003. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Twenty-year yields dropped as much as five basis points to
1.8 percent, the least since January 2009.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery gained 0.19
to 141.66 at the afternoon close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 Japanese debt handed investors a return of 2.1 percent
since March 31 and 2 percent since Dec. 31, according to
indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  
 U.S. Manufacturing  
 The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s
 business barometer  slipped to 59 in June from 59.7 the previous
month, according to a Bloomberg News survey before the report
today. China’s  Purchasing Managers’ Index  dropped to 53.2 this
month from 53.9 in May, according to a separate survey ahead of
the release tomorrow.  
 U.S. stocks slumped yesterday, sending the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  to the lowest since Oct. 30, while the  yield 
on the two-year Treasury note fell to a record 0.5856 percent
today. Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid 2 percent today
and the MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares fell 1.1 percent.  
 “With Treasury’s yields falling, riskier assets
stagnating and uncertainties about U.S. economic growth, there
is no reason to sell debt right now,” said  Makoto Yamashita ,
chief Japan rate strategist at Deutsche Securities Inc. in
Tokyo. “We recommend buying bonds.”  
 Yen Strength  
 Bonds extended their advance as the yen traded near the
strongest level in more than eight years against the euro,
clouding prospects for profit growth at Japanese exporters.  
 “If the yen stays 10 percent higher than the average
export hedging rate set by Japanese companies for 12 months, it
will slash annual profit by nearly 5 percent on average, and
Japan’s real gross domestic product by 0.4 percentage points,”
said  Tatsushi Shikano , senior economist in Tokyo at Mitsubishi
UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. “Under such circumstance, it
is hard to expect investors to buy stocks and sell bonds.”  
 Japan’s currency yesterday reached 107.32 per euro, the
strongest level since November 2001, and 88.29 against the
dollar, the highest since May 6.  
 Japan’s large manufacturers expect the currency to average
91 per dollar this fiscal year, according to the Bank of
Japan’s Tankan survey released in April.  
 CDS Rates Rise  
 The cost of protecting Asia-Pacific corporate and
sovereign bonds from default increased amid lingering worries
over the credit crisis in Europe.  
 The Markit iTraxx Australia index climbed five basis
points to 142 basis points, heading for the sixth increase in
seven trading days, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. and CMA
DataVision in New York. The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50
investment-grade borrowers outside Japan added five basis
points to 147 basis points in Singapore, the highest since June
10, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and CMA prices show.  
 “As longs as worries about the depth of the debt crisis
in Europe remain intact, we can’t exit from bets that the debt
market will maintain a firm undertone,” said  Takeo Okuhara , a
fund manager in Tokyo at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., a unit of
Japan’s second- largest securities broker.  
 Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. An increase suggests deteriorating perceptions
of credit quality and a drop shows improvement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        