-- Japan's Steel Mills Study Ore Swaps After Mitsui Deal, Credit Suisse Says
-- Jesse Riseborough
-- 2010-06-29T15:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/japan-s-steel-mills-study-ore-swaps-after-mitsui-deal-credit-suisse-says.html

          
          
             Japanese steelmakers, the world’s
second-biggest producers of the alloy, and consumers such as
automakers may follow  Mitsui & Co.  in entering the growing iron
ore swaps market, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  
 “We’ve been actively engaged with more than a dozen
clients in Japan who are at various stages of assessing the
opportunity and Mitsui was the first one to trade,” Alex Toone,
head of commodities for Asia Pacific at Credit Suisse, said
today by telephone from Singapore. Credit Suisse was a party in
Japan’s first iron ore swap trade, completed by Mitsui on June
25, he said, declining to give more details.  
 Deutsche Bank AG started offering iron ore swaps with
Credit Suisse in 2008 at the instigation of  BHP Billiton Ltd. ,
the world’s biggest mining company, which was dissatisfied with
the way ore in the estimated $200 billion-a-year market was
priced. Vale SA,  Rio Tinto Group  and BHP, the three biggest
suppliers, this year scrapped a 40-year tradition of setting
prices annually in favor of quarterly contracts.  
 “Things have moved amazingly quickly this year, much
faster than perhaps even we would have expected,” Toone said.
“There are people who are proactively looking at it in China,
people in Korea, people in Japan. There are more participants in
this market every single day.”  
 Trading in the swaps allows users to fix prices in advance
for single cargoes. The market may grow 10-fold to 360 million
metric tons annually over the next two years, Credit Suisse
estimated in February. Interest in the swaps has increased
following the shift to quarterly prices, Toone said.  
 Thyssen, Rio  
 ThyssenKrupp AG, Germany’s largest steelmaker, said in
April it’s considering whether to use the derivatives after
annual pricing was dismantled by iron ore producers.  
 “What we’ve seen over the past several years is that the
iron ore markets are naturally evolving to shorter periods of
pricing,” Tom Albanese, Rio’s chief executive officer, said in
an interview at the Fortune Global Forum in Cape Town June 27.
“We are going to continue to see an evolution of that market as
we move forward.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        