-- JPMorgan's Berliand Retires, O'Connor to Run Firm's Prime Brokerage Unit
-- Dawn Kopecki
-- 2010-06-29T18:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/jpmorgan-s-berliand-retires-o-connor-to-run-firm-s-prime-brokerage-unit.html

          
          
             JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s  Richard Berliand , who helped combine Bear Stearns Cos.’s prime brokerage
unit into the firm, is retiring after 23 years at the second-
largest U.S. bank by assets.  
 Berliand will be replaced by  Sandie O’Connor , JPMorgan’s
global head of financing and market products, who has also spent
more than two decades at the company, according to a memo sent
to employees today from  Carlos Hernandez , JPMorgan’s global head
of equities.  
 “Richard’s deep understanding of our markets businesses
and the regulatory environment has enhanced our ability to stay
ahead of the changes occurring in our industry,” Hernandez
wrote. The memo was confirmed by spokesman  Brian Marchiony .
Financial News reported the move earlier today.  
 Berliand ran several global divisions during his career at
New York-based JPMorgan, overseeing cash equities, futures and
options. As the global head of prime services, he oversaw the
bank’s prime brokerage, futures and options as well as
derivatives-clearing operations. Berliand, who wants to spend
more time with his family, will stay for a month while O’Connor
transitions to her new role, Hernandez said.  
 O’Connor will work with the global equities group to expand
JPMorgan’s prime services business in Europe, the Middle East
and Asia, Hernandez said. She will also continue her role
overseeing JPMorgan’s prime custody solutions group, which acts
as a custodian for hedge funds and other large institutional
investors.  
 She previously oversaw global securities lending, clearing,
collateral management, foreign exchange, depository receipts and
execution services.  
 Jeremy Barnum , 38, a managing director in the bank’s global
fixed-income group, will take over Berliand’s duties chairing
the firm’s market-structure group, which evaluates regulatory
and market changes. Barnum will also continue in his current
role reporting to  Daniel Pinto , the co-head of fixed-income
products, Hernandez said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dawn Kopecki  in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com   
          
          


  


        