-- JPMorgan's Dimon Says Dividend Increase May Be `Too Ambitious' This Year
-- Dawn Kopecki
-- 2010-06-30T17:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/jpmorgan-isn-t-likely-to-increase-its-dividend-this-year-ceo-dimon-says.html

          
          
             JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the second-
largest U.S. bank by assets, isn’t likely to increase its
dividend this year, Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said.  
 Dimon said in March and April he hopes to restore the
quarterly dividend, which was cut to 5 cents in 2009, as soon as
the lender sees sustained improvement in U.S. employment and
loan defaults, and after lawmakers draft new rules for bank
capital. It may be “too ambitious” to expect an increase by
year’s end, he told reporters and small-business owners
yesterday at the company’s Manhattan headquarters.  
 “My wife asked me the same question. She said she’s
running low on cash,” he joked, prompting laughter from the
crowd. She owned more than 1.3 million shares as of March 25,
including holdings in a trust, according to a regulatory filing.  
 Dimon said he hopes the company can raise the payout next
year. For now, it’s hard to say with certainty whether the U.S.
economy is heading toward a solid recovery, he said.  
 “If we were about to go into worse times or about to go
into better times, it still could still feel exactly the way it
feels right now,” he said. “So this could be the making of a
recovery. But it doesn’t feel quite good yet.”  
 U.S. unemployment remains near 10 percent and global stock
indexes have erased this year’s gains, with the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  sliding yesterday to its lowest since October.
JPMorgan’s shares have declined 11 percent this year. The stock
gained 10 cents to $37.16 today at 1:30 p.m. in New York.  
 ‘Capital Uncertainty’  
 JPMorgan cut the  quarterly dividend  in February 2009 from
38 cents. Dimon told investors last month that he hoped to
restore payouts to 30 percent to 40 percent of earnings.  
 “We want to see continued sustained improvement in
employment, continued sustained improvement in delinquencies”
and a better understanding of new bank capital rules before the
dividend will increase, he said in April.  
 Yesterday, he said the “most important” factor weighing
on the decision is “capital uncertainty” stemming from
proposed bank regulations in the U.S. and abroad. The bank also
wants to see sustained improvement in mortgage and other loan
delinquencies and “sustained employment growth,” he said.  
 “I look more at employment more than unemployment,” he
said. “Employment is going up. It’s not going up fast.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dawn Kopecki  in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com   
          
          


  


        