-- Juliette Binoche Whinges About Men, Flirts With Writer: Review
-- Farah Nayeri
-- 2010-06-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/juliette-binoche-whinges-about-men-flirts-with-writer-review.html

          
          
             Juliette Binoche  moans about men in
three languages -- English, French and Italian -- for the
screen part that won her the best-actress award at this 
year’s  Cannes Film Festival .  
 “ Copie Conforme ” (“Certified Copy”) has an Iranian
writer-director (Abbas Kiarostami), a British co-star (baritone
William Shimell), a French co-producer (Marin Karmitz) and an
Italian setting (Tuscany). Usually, that kind of cross-cultural
cooperation spells disaster: Acting and dialogue fall prey to
language barriers.  
 “Certified Copy” largely avoids the trap. It’s an often
funny meditation on the frustrations of male-female
relationships -- a kind of “Men are From Mars, Women Are From
Venus,” only less prosaic, and more show-don’t-tell.  
 Binoche, 46, does most of the showing. Her face, often the
camera’s single focus, is the canvas on which Kiarostami
projects his story. What little plot there is emerges through
her monologues and displays of emotion.  
 Binoche plays a Tuscany-based gallery owner and single
mother who spots a suave, middle-aged U.K. author named James
Miller (played by the first-time actor Shimell). James is
giving a talk defending his highbrow book’s premise: that
copies, in art, serve a worthy purpose.  
 Wise Kid  
 Binoche shows up late, and takes a front-row seat. She’s
followed by her son, a bushy-haired pre-adolescent who watches
Mom from the corner. Binoche gives a handwritten note to the
lecture’s organizer, and heads off to a cafe with the boy, who
teases her about ordering six copies of the book.  
 “You like James, and you’ve decided to fall in love with
him,” he says knowingly.  
 By the next scene, James enters her gallery, a cool
medieval space filled with antique sculptures. The two discuss
the relative merits of originals and copies as they drive to
the town of Lucignano, where couples marry for good luck.  
 James can’t help but sneer at the smiling brides and
grooms everywhere. As they order coffee and he disappears to
the gents, the nosy cafe owner, a world-weary Italian woman,
quizzes Binoche about the man she assumes is her spouse.  
 “She mistook you for my husband, and I didn’t correct
her,” Binoche tells James when he returns. “Obviously, we
make a good couple: What do you think?” comes his flirty
reply.  
 At that point, reality and fiction become blurred. How?
You’ll have to see the movie to find out.  
 Polished Production  
 Visually, this is 70-year-old Kiarostami’s most polished
work. Previous films -- most of them every bit as interesting -
- were more spontaneous, low-budget affairs shot in Iran. Here,
you sense a heftier production team. Cinematographer Luca
Bigazzi, in particular, helps Kiarostami (himself a
photographer) deliver inebriating views of Tuscany.  
 Kiarostami shows prowess at portraying male-female
couples. As he confessed to reporters in Cannes, borrowing
verse from the 14th-century Persian poet Hafez, relationships
are the one area where experience is of no use. The same
misunderstandings recur time and again.  
 His movie shows exactly that: a man and woman repeatedly
hitting the wall of mutual incomprehension. In one striking
scene, Binoche pulls out red lipstick and dangling earrings to
doll herself up in a trattoria restroom, using the camera lens
as a mirror. When she reappears before her male companion, his
reaction is not what she expected.  
 Awkward Realism  
 The movie does have flashes of awkwardness. When Binoche
stumbles on a word in French or Italian (languages Kiarostami
doesn’t speak) or inadvertently looks into the camera for a
nanosecond, the director keeps it all in, delivering what
appears to be one long, uninterrupted take.  
 It’s all part of his neo-realistic, naturalistic approach
to filmmaking, as seen in titles such as “Close-Up” (1990),
where characters re-enacted events that happened to them off
screen. Yet “Certified Copy” is a work of fiction played by
actors. So that naturalistic, light-edit approach makes the
work of a talented director seem intermittently amateurish.  
 Otherwise, Kiarostami’s first full-length stab at feature
filmmaking outside Iran is a successful baptism by fire.
Regardless of where he shoots, Kiarostami is one to watch. So
is the photogenic Binoche, but you probably knew that already.  
 Rating: ***.  
 ( Farah Nayeri  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  

 
What the Stars Mean:
****        Excellent
***         Good
**          Average
*           Poor
(No stars)  Worthless
 
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Actress Juliette Binoche in a scene from the movie "Copie Conforme." The film is by Iranian filmmaker Abbas Kiarostami. Photographer:Laurent Thurin Nal/MK2 Distribution via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Actors Juliette Binoche, left, and William Shimell in "Copie Conforme.".The film is by the Iranian filmmaker Abbas Kiarostami. Photographer: Laurent Thurin Nal/MK2 Distribution via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Actress Juliette Binoche performs in a scene from the movie "Copie Conforme." The movie is by the Iranian filmmaker Abbas Kiarostami. Photographer: Laurent Thurin Nal/MK2 Distribution via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
