-- Kagan Says Military Had Access to Harvard Students
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-06-29T22:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/kagan-to-answer-republicans-claims-she-may-be-too-political-on-high-court.html

          
          
             U.S. Supreme Court  nominee  Elena Kagan  defended her treatment of military recruiters when she was
dean at  Harvard Law School , saying they had access to students
“every single day” and any limitations were aimed at
protecting the rights of gays and lesbians on campus.  
 Kagan said military officials recruited through an off-
campus veterans’ group as she enforced a rule barring them from
using the law school’s office of career services because the
military kept gay people from serving openly.  
 “Military recruiters had access to Harvard students every
single day I was dean,” Kagan said in response to questioning
on the second day of her confirmation hearings before the  Senate
Judiciary Committee . She said military recruiting increased at
one point during her tenure, and that she often told alumni and
students in the military “how much I respected their service.”  
 The military recruitment question is one of the major
issues facing Kagan, President  Barack Obama ’s choice to become
the nation’s 112th justice. Republicans have used it to question
her political leanings.  
 Alabama Senator  Jeff Sessions , the ranking Republican on
the panel, told Kagan he believed she treated the military “in
a second-class way.” He said, “I’m just a little taken aback
by the tone of your remarks, because it’s unconnected to
reality.”  
 Kagan said she opposed the military’s “don’t ask, don’t
tell” policy on gay people serving in the armed forces and
still does. She called it “unwise and unjust.” The U.S. House
of Representatives on May 27 voted to repeal the policy.  
 Rebutting Politics  
 Kagan, 50, also got the chance to rebut Republican
lawmakers’ criticism that she might put politics ahead of
impartiality if confirmed to the high court.  
 While Kagan said her political views “are generally
progressive,” she also said, “my politics would be, must be,
have to be, completely separate from my judging.”  
 Kagan said “there is no doubt” the Supreme Court’s 2008
ruling that the Constitution’s Second Amendment protects an
individual right to carry guns is “settled law.” She said she
had “absolutely no reason” to think the court’s analysis in
the case was wrong.  
 As a Supreme Court clerk in 1987, Kagan wrote that she was
“not sympathetic” toward a man who contended that his
constitutional rights were violated when he was convicted for
carrying an unlicensed pistol. Kagan said the state of the law
had changed fundamentally in the two decades since.  
 Death Penalty  
 The constitutionality of the death penalty is also
“settled law,” she said.  
 Yesterday, Democrats said Kagan has had an outstanding and
varied career and would moderate a court that is favoring big
business over legal precedent. The panel’s Republicans accused
Kagan of political activism and a lack of judicial experience.  
 “There are serious concerns about this nomination,”
Sessions said yesterday. Kagan, who is now Obama’s  solicitor
general , has “less real legal experience” than any nominee in
at least 50 years and has “barely practiced law,” he said.  
 Republicans said the burden is on Kagan to prove she would
set aside any political agenda if confirmed.  
 Kagan, in her opening statement yesterday, said she will do
her best to “consider every case impartially, modestly.”  
 Senators today asked her questions on a variety of issues,
from campaign finance to the role her parents played in shaping
her views. Wisconsin Senator  Herb Kohl , a Democrat, asked
whether she supported the court’s decision in the 2000 Bush v.
Gore case that stopped a recount in Florida and awarded the
presidency to  George W. Bush .  
 ‘An Appropriate Way’  
 Kagan didn’t answer directly, saying that the question of
when the court should get involved in elections is important and
might come before the justices again. “I would try to consider
it in an appropriate way,” she said.  
 The nominee told senators that the framers of the U.S.
Constitution anticipated it would be interpreted in light of
changes in society, technology and the country at large.  
 “Part of their wisdom was that they wrote a Constitution
for the ages,” Kagan said. Some provisions “were meant to be
interpreted over time,” she said.  
 Kagan said she may have, in an earlier writing, overstated
the need for Supreme Court nominees to be forthcoming in
testimony about legal issues. “I skewed it too much” toward
giving candid answers on settled cases, she said. “That was
wrong.”  
 Obama and the Democrats have criticized the court’s 5-4
ruling this year in Citizens United v. Federal Election
Commission, which overturned limits on corporate election
spending. Kagan argued the losing side of the case and today
said she was convinced of the merits of her side.  
 ‘Settled Law’  
 Still, she said she would distinguish between her role as
an advocate and a judge. “Citizens United is settled law going
forward,” she said. She said she would respect the precedent.  
 Asked about abortion, Kagan said that aside from the
court’s 2007 ruling that upheld a ban on a procedure opponents
call “partial birth” abortion, the court’s holdings establish
that “the woman’s life and the woman’s health must be protected
in any abortion regulation.”  
 Kagan said she supports the idea of placing cameras in the
Supreme Court to televise proceedings.  
 “When you see what happens there, it’s an inspiring
sight,” she said.  
 Kagan, the first female solicitor general, is a heavy
favorite to become the court’s next justice, with lawmakers
predicting confirmation, barring a major gaffe. Her confirmation
by the full Senate would place three women on the Supreme Court
at once for the first time in its 221-year history.  
 Fourth Woman  
 Kagan would become the fourth woman to serve on the court.
She has never been a judge and worked for four years in the
White House when Democrat  Bill Clinton  was president.  
 Democrats control 58 out of 99 votes in the Senate, which
has one vacancy after the death yesterday of West Virginia
Democrat  Robert Byrd . Some Republicans, such as  Lindsey Graham 
of South Carolina and  Susan Collins  of Maine, have said Kagan is
qualified.  
 If confirmed, Kagan, a New York native, would replace
Justice  John Paul Stevens . Kagan’s confirmation almost certainly
wouldn’t affect the court’s ideological balance, which tilts 5-4
for conservatives on most of the divisive issues.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Elena Kagan, nominee for the U.S. Supreme Court, testifies on the second day of her confirmation hearing by the Senate Judiciary Committee in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
