-- Kenya to Wait at Least a Year Before Selling Bonds Abroad, Kinyua Says
-- Sarah McGregor
-- 2010-06-29T10:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/kenya-to-wait-at-least-a-year-before-selling-bonds-abroad-kinyua-says.html

          
          
             Kenya will wait at least another
year before selling bonds abroad as it can raise money more
cheaply on the domestic market, the top public servant in the
 Finance Ministry  said.  
 “We believe the market internationally is not one where we
can get better terms,” permanent secretary at the ministry,
 Joseph Kinyua , said today in an interview in the capital,
Nairobi. The government “hasn’t  budgeted ” for the proceeds
from an international sale in the fiscal year through June,
2011, he said.  
 Kenya has been mulling the best time to sell bonds abroad
since a sale planned for 2008 was postponed due to the global
financial crisis.  Central bank  Governor Njuguna Ndung’u said on
May 26 that a final decision would be made after this financial
year ends on June 30. The government will probably try to raise
$500 million through the sale, he said.  
 Kenya’s “unfavorable” exchange rate is a factor in the
government’s decision to delay the sale, Kinyua said, without
giving details.  
 The shilling has depreciated 5.1 percent against the dollar
since the start of the year, trading at 82.15 as of 12:03 p.m.
in Nairobi today. A weaker exchange rate may make it harder for
Kenya to repay bonds.  
 The government plans to borrow 105.3 billion shillings
($1.3 billion) from the local market in the next fiscal year and
82.7 billion shillings from international lenders such as
government and the International Monetary Fund.  
 Kenya will continue pursuing monetary policy that targets
inflation at 5 percent as it tries to build investor confidence
that it can pay debts with longer maturities, Kinyua said.  
 The central bank raised 7.5 billion shillings in its debut
25-year bond sale at a June 24th auction that was more than
three times oversold. “Our intention is to see if we can even
go to 50 years,” a goal that will probably take two or three
years to achieve, said Kinyua.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        