-- KKR-Owned Maxeda Likely to Sell Fashion Unit After Approaches, Chief Says
-- Jeroen Molenaar
-- 2010-06-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/kkr-owned-maxeda-likely-to-sell-fashion-unit-after-getting-bids-ceo-says.html

          
          
             Maxeda BV,  the Dutch retailer owned
by a Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.-led group, is likely to sell
its fashion unit after receiving approaches from more than 10
possible bidders, Chief Executive Officer  Tony DeNunzio  said.  
 “From today, it looks like we could end up with a sale,”
said DeNunzio, who ordered a review of the division in February.
The unit includes V&D, the largest Dutch department-store chain
with 62 outlets, 122 La Place restaurants and 897 clothing
outlets operating as  Bijenkorf , Hunkemoeller and M&S.  
 Selling shares in the unit “is an option, but is probably
less likely and keeping the business is also less likely,” the
CEO said in an interview at Maxeda’s head office in Amsterdam.
The potential bidders didn’t name a price, he said. The unit may
fetch almost 700 million euros ($855 million), analysts say.  
 At the helm for five years, DeNunzio has sold chains,
including Claudia Straeter, cut jobs and increased spending on
stores and marketing to boost sales and reduce losses. Three
years ago, the former head of U.K. retailer Asda sold Dutch
variety store chain Hema BV, which had annual sales of 1.02
billion euros, to private-equity firm Lion Capital LLP.  
 V&D had its first profit in 10 years in the year through
January, prompting DeNunzio to order a review and consider “all
strategic options” for the fashion division, he said.  
 The interested parties “are both strategic and financial
and they’re both Dutch and international,” said DeNunzio, a 50-
year-old Englishman. “There’s a wide-ranging interest.”  
 Tipping Point  
 “We’ve invested and we’ve improved and it has turned the
corner” at V&D said DeNunzio. “It’s now at a tipping point
where suddenly all of the investments are starting to pay back
and that’s a good moment for a different investor.”  
 The fashion division may fetch seven times last year’s 98
million euros in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, analysts including SNS Securities’s  Richard Withagen  and Investec Securities’s  Katharine Wynne  said.  
 “It’s up to the next owner to further grow the business,”
Withagen said. “You may be able to further enhance
profitability, but private equity of course has already done
various things.”  
 KKR  and buyout firms Permira Advisers LLP, Cinven Ltd. and
Alpinvest Partners NV acquired Maxeda for 1.4 billion euros six
years ago, after the company, formerly known as  Royal Vendex KBB
NV , posted a 96 percent decline in annual profit because of a
loss at V&D.  
 With Bloomberg data showing that  Debenhams Plc , the U.K.’s
second-largest department-store owner, has an enterprise value
of 4.3 times its Ebitda, and  Next Plc , Britain’s second-largest
clothing retailer, being valued at 6.3 times Ebitda, Maxeda
“would be lucky” to get more than seven times Ebitda for the
unit, Investec’s Wynne said.  
 Mango Sweaters  
 DeNunzio added about 3,500 premium-priced clothing products
such as Mango sweaters to V&D stores to lure customers from
rivals including closely held C&A Group, Hennes & Mauritz AB and
Inditex SA’s Zara. Profitability at V&D will rise this year,
helped by ads on Dutch television for summer dresses, he said.  
 Sales at Maxeda’s fashion unit slid  1 percent  to 1.7
billion euros last year. That was less than the 7 percent drop
of the whole Dutch non-food retail market, as measured by the
Dutch national statistics bureau.  
 “It shows the resilience of the business in the
downturn,” said DeNunzio. “It also shows that the management
team can steer through the choppy waters of a difficult economic
climate and still deliver profit growth.”  
 Profit Growth  
 Ebitda at the fashion unit rose 8.8 percent last year and
growth has accelerated this year, according to DeNunzio.  
 “In the first five months of this year, profit growth at
our fashion group was significantly greater than last year.”  
 DeNunzio in 2005 quit his job as CEO of Wal-Mart Stores
Inc.’s U.K. supermarket unit Asda to join Maxeda. Two years ago,
he was named a non-executive director at Alliance Boots Plc.,
the drugs and pharmacy chain owned by KKR, and this year he
became non-executive chairman at Pets at Home Ltd.  
 DeNunzio, who invested an undisclosed amount of his own
money in Maxeda, lives by an Amsterdam canal, close to the
Bijenkorf on the city’s Dam square. After the outcome of the
review, he will continue to run Maxeda’s home-improvement
stores, which account for 45 percent of the company’s 3.1
billion euros of revenue and are not for sale, he said.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. and ING Groep NV will complete their
review of the fashion unit by the end of this year, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam at 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        