-- Korea's Won Leads Slide in Asian Currencies on Signs Recovery Faltering
-- Khalid Qayum
-- 2010-06-29T05:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/korea-s-won-leads-slide-in-asian-currencies-on-signs-recovery-faltering.html

          
          
             Asian  currencies fell, led by South
Korea’s won, on concern the region’s recovery is losing traction
after Japan unveiled weaker-than-estimated data and a gauge for
the outlook on China’s economy was revised lower.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index also slid as the
International Monetary Fund said a revaluation of the yuan won’t
happen “very rapidly,” damping the outlook for exports to
China. Data released today showed Japan’s unemployment rate
unexpectedly rose last month, while industrial output climbed
less than forecast and household spending fell.  
 “Much of the data this week will not erase concerns about
a double dip in global economic activity, and the Japanese data
this morning will only exacerbate worries,”  Dariusz Kowalczyk ,
a senior economist and strategist at Credit Agricole SA in Hong
Kong, wrote in a research note.  
 The won declined 1.3 percent to 1,217.30 per dollar as of
2:10 p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
India’s rupee dropped 0.6 percent to 46.46, while the ringgit
slid 0.4 percent to 3.2365.  
 South Korea’s currency has lost 7.6 percent this quarter,
the worst performance in the region, followed by India’s rupee
and the Philippine peso. Malaysia’s ringgit, which has gained
0.8 percent this quarter, outperformed its peers.  
 The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional shares slid 1
percent today. China fixed the yuan’s reference rate at 6.7901,
0.02 percent weaker than yesterday’s record-high 6.7890.  
 Japan, China Reports  
 International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said in Washington yesterday that a revaluation of
China’s currency won’t happen quickly or fix all of the global
economy’s imbalances.  
 The Conference Board, a U.S.-based research group, today
corrected its April gauge for the outlook of China’s economy,
saying its leading index for the country rose the least since
November, rather than registering the biggest gain in 14 months.  
 Japan’s  unemployment rate  reached 5.2 percent in May, the
third straight monthly increase and the highest level since
December, the statistics bureau said. Household spending
retreated 0.7 percent from May 2009, the office also said.
 Factory output  dropped 0.1 percent from April, the Trade
Ministry said, compared with the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 24 economists for production to have held steady.  
 South Korea’s won slid as traders pared bets for an
appreciation in the yuan, a move that would boost the purchasing
power of consumers in China, the world’s third-biggest economy.  
 ‘Party Is Over’  
 “Expectations of a yuan increase have weakened a lot,”
said  Ha Jun Woo , a foreign-exchange dealer at Daegu Bank in
Seoul. “The yuan’s moves have been incremental. I’m wondering
if the party is over now.”  
 South Korea’s current-account surplus was $3.83 billion in
May, jumping from a revised $1.42 billion in April, the central
bank said in Seoul today. The surplus for last month was the
biggest since November.  
 India’s rupee weakened for the first time in three days as
the nation’s benchmark Sensitive Index of shares dropped 0.5
percent.  
 “The rupee is tracking the weakness in stocks because the
latest economic reports from Asia aren’t particularly
encouraging,” said  Krishnamurthy Harihar , a Mumbai-based
treasurer at the Indian unit of South Africa’s FirstRand Ltd.
“In the medium term, we should see the rupee gradually
appreciating, driven by fundamentals.”  
 China Pact  
 Taiwan’s dollar advanced, bucking the trend among regional
currencies, on optimism a trade pact being signed with China
today will spur exports and encourage overseas investors to pump
more money into the island’s assets.  
 The Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement will be signed
in the Chinese city of Chongqing and reflects strengthening ties
between Taiwan and the mainland.  
 “More foreign banks and funds are selling U.S. dollars to
buy government bonds, or maybe some stocks,” said  Henry Lin , a
Taipei-based foreign-exchange trader at Taiwan Shin Kong
Commercial Bank. “Most of the money is parking in government
bonds to arbitrage the price of the Taiwan dollar.”  
 The currency may reverse or pare gains later in the day as
the central bank intervenes to support exporters, Lin said.
Taiwan’s dollar climbed 0.3 percent to NT$32.080 against its
U.S. counterpart.  
 Elsewhere, the currencies of Thailand, the Philippines and
Indonesia all slid 0.1 percent. The baht was at 32.40 per
dollar, the peso at 46.435 and the rupiah at 9,035.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        