-- Naspers Annual Profit Falls; Will Focus Acquisitions on Internet Companies
-- Nicky Smith
-- 2010-06-29T09:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/naspers-says-profit-declines-to-427-million-in-full-year-through-march.html

          
          
             Naspers Ltd. , which owns Africa’s
largest pay-television broadcaster MultiChoice, said full-year
earnings fell on a stronger rand and after profit from the sale
of a Greek TV unit wasn’t repeated.  
 Net income declined to 3.26 billion rand ($428 million) in
the year ended March 31, from 5.76 billion rand  a year earlier ,
the Cape Town-based company said in a statement today. Sales
rose 5 percent to 28 billion rand, and if the rand hadn’t
strengthened the increase would have been 11 percent, it said.  
 Naspers will continue to expand through organic growth and
acquisitions, focused on the Internet, where the industry
“showed bold growth in emerging markets,” it said. In the
past year the company added Internet businesses in Brazil,
Russia, Poland and South Africa.  
 In the previous financial year, profit from discontinued
operations was 3.1 billion rand, with a 2.97 billion-rand
profit on the disposal of Greek pay-TV division Netmed.  
 Margins at  MultiChoice , the largest contributor to
earnings, narrowed on rising content costs and after Naspers
spent more money to attract pay-TV customers to defend market
share. Subscribers in South Africa increased 450,000 to 2.85
million. In the rest of Africa, subscribers rose 184,000 to 1.1
million.  
 Naspers advanced  0.1 percent to 262.20 rand at 11:54 a.m
in Johannesburg trading. Before today, the stock gained 33
percent in 12 months.  
 Good Numbers  
 “There are indications that growth in pay TV are slowing
but the numbers are still good,”  Kevin Mattison , an analyst
with Avior Research who rates the company “buy,” said in a
telephone interview from Cape Town today. Internet operations
“performed well” and take time to develop, he said.  
 “Looking ahead, we mostly have resilient businesses in
emerging markets that are still expanding,” Naspers said.
“Competition in pay TV, regulation and consumer spending
levels remain challenges.”  
 Print businesses globally “suffered in the recession.”
Circulation “held up remarkably, but advertising felt the
blows,” Naspers said.  
 The share of sales from associate businesses, mainly
China’s Internet and online gaming service Tencent, Russia’s
mail.ru and Latin American publisher and content provider
Abril, rose to 2.1 billion rand from 1.5 billion rand a year
earlier.  
 Core Headline Earnings  
 Core headline earnings climbed 22 percent to 5.3 billion
rand. Naspers considers core headline earnings an appropriate
measure of sustainable operating performance, as it adjusts for
non-recurring items and accounting standards that have no
operational effect. Earnings per share on this basis rose to
8.59 rand from 8.19 rand.  
 Naspers  holds 35 percent of Shenzhen-based Tencent, which
is listed in Hong Kong. The unit had 105 million concurrent
users at peak times in the year to the end of March. Tencent
“performed ahead of expectations” it said. Tencent’s
contribution to core headline earnings increased 76 percent to
2.1 billion rand.  
 Mail.ru had 81 million active e-mail accounts. It bought
Russia’s Astrum Online Entertainment Holdings, an online games
platform, in November. Naspers’s holding in Mail.ru fell to 39
percent from 42 percent after it made a cash investment in
Mail.ru as a result of the Astrum acquisition, the statement
said.  
 Brazil’s Abril cut costs and its contribution to core
headline earnings fell to 318 million rand from 414 million
rand a year earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        