-- Nestle's $28.1 Billion Payday Gives It Google-Size Cash Pile
-- Shin Pei
-- 2010-06-30T17:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/nestle-s-28-1-billion-payday-gives-it-google-size-cash-pile-for-purchases.html

          
          
             Nestle SA  has a $28.1 billion
question and investors have plenty of answers.  
 Europe’s largest company by market value could buy almost
any publicly traded food asset with cash when it gets paid for
its  Alcon Inc.  stake in the second half. Investors want the
maker of KitKat bars and Haagen-Dazs ice cream to expand in
emerging markets to catch up with  Unilever , which gets about
half of its sales in developing countries.  
 “The world is their oyster, but the pearls can’t be too
expensive,” said  Wendy Trevisani , a fund manager at Thornburg
Investment Management in Santa Fe, New Mexico, which has more
than $700 million invested in Nestle shares. “They’re clearly a
laggard in emerging markets.”  
 Nestle will receive $28.1 billion from Novartis AG for its
majority stake in Alcon, the maker of Opti-Free contact lens
cleaners, giving it a  cash  pile exceeding the $26.5 billion that
Google Inc. had on its books at the end of March. The Swiss
company is starting a new 10 billion-franc  buyback  program,
though Nestle would rather invest in its business or make
acquisitions, Chief Financial Officer  Jim Singh  said June 22.  
 About 1 billion consumers in emerging markets will increase
their incomes enough to be able to afford Nestle products within
the next decade, the Vevey, Switzerland-based company estimates.
The world’s largest food company gets about a third of its
revenue from emerging economies and Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke  aims to lift that to 45 percent within a decade.  
 Bottled Water?  
 Nestle’s sales in emerging markets rose 8.5 percent last
year, double the rate of the company’s total revenue. Its sales
from those regions totaled 35 billion francs, more than any
rival.  
 Nestle  shares, which no analyst  recommends  selling
according to 42 ratings tracked by Bloomberg, are up 4 percent
this year. They fell 0.3 percent to 52.20 francs in Zurich
today. Unilever has dropped 0.9 percent this year. Kraft Foods
Inc., the world’s second-largest foodmaker, has gained 2.3
percent.  
 Nestle may purchase bottled water businesses in markets
such as China,  Frits van Dijk , head of Nestle’s Asian business,
said June 22. Acquisitions would also be considered to expand
its business selling nutrition products for athletes, such as
PowerBar, Nestle Nutrition CEO  Richard Laube  said.  
 Pet Food  
 Possible targets may include  Synutra International Inc., 
the $950 million Chinese infant-formula company, according to
 Katherine Lu , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. Nestle should
consider buying natural pet-food makers to better compete with
 Procter & Gamble Co.,  which agreed to buy Natura Pet Products
Inc. on May 5, or enter new bottled water markets in India and
Africa, said  James Targett , an analyst at Consumer Equity
Research. Nestle Waters CEO John Harris  said June 18 the company
has a list of five new markets it would like to enter.  
 “The cash lets Nestle have the stomach to invest behind
their existing businesses and markets,” said  Thomas Russo , a
partner at Gardner Russo & Gardner in Lancaster, Pennsylvania,
which holds more than $350 million of Nestle shares for clients.
“They have the field pretty much to themselves at the moment.”  
 Nestle spokesman Ferhat Soygenis declined to comment.  
 Bulcke, 55, has made only one purchase of more than $1
billion since taking over as CEO in April 2008, the $3.7 billion
purchase of Kraft’s North American frozen pizza business
announced one day after the Alcon sale. The CEO has pledged to
spend as much as 3 billion francs a year on acquisitions of
smaller companies, and Nestle has said the company doesn’t need
to make “transformational” purchases.  
 Possible Targets  
 The cash due from Novartis is enough to buy any of Nestle’s
rivals in food and non-alcoholic beverages save the six biggest.
That includes adding a 22 percent average premium that Nestle
paid for its acquisitions of listed companies since 2000.  
 “They’re going to use the money to buy assets, at least a
big chunk of it,” said  David Hayes  of Nomura. According to
Hayes, Nestle may look at  General Mills Inc.,  the maker of Betty
Crocker cake mix, which has a market value of $24.8 billion.  
 The only listed food and non-alcoholic beverage companies
with market capitalizations of more than $28.1 billion are Coca-
Cola Co., PepsiCo Inc., Unilever, Kraft and Groupe Danone SA.  
 H.J. Heinz Co. or Hershey Co. could also be targets for
Nestle, Euromonitor said in a May 20 report. Heinz would allow
scope for lower costs in culinary aids and baby food, and
Hershey would strengthen Nestle in its weakest region for
chocolate, the market research company said. Heinz has a market
value of about $14 billion and Hershey is valued at $11 billion.  
 ‘Hidden Gems’  
 Nestle should avoid buying big companies that would make
managers spend too much time selling assets to satisfy antitrust
regulators, Thornburg’s Trevisani said.  
 “Ideally they find a few hidden gems like Nespresso out
there that may not look great at first glance, but over time
develop into really viable growth businesses,” Trevisani said.  
 Investors would also like to see share buybacks and
dividends funded by the money it will receive for selling the
stake, said  Joerg de Vries-Hippen , who counted Nestle as the
biggest  holding  in his Allianz RCM Swiss Fund at the end of
2009.  
 “The right thing is a mix,” said de Vries-Hippen, who
helps manage 16 billion euros ($19.5 billion) at Allianz Global
Investors in Frankfurt. “If you’d win the big jackpot, 30
million, and the first thing you do is buy a big house, 10 cars
and maybe give your family a lot of money, in the end you will
have lost all your money.”  
 Nestle needs to give investors more clarity on what it will
do with the money, or else analysts might become less willing to
recommend buying the stock, said  Carl Short , an equity analyst
at Standard & Poor’s Equity Research. He moved to “hold” from
“strong buy” in October, partly on such concern.  
 “It becomes a bit of a problem, because if you’re telling
someone to buy the stock, they can turn around and say ‘what am
I really buying?’” Short said. “You could buy Nestle today and
in six weeks time, it’s a completely different company.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at   tmulier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Nestle CEO Paul Bulcke  
                       
                         
                           Charles Ellena/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Nestle CEO Paul Bulcke speaks during a meeting in Switzerland. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Nestle CEO Paul Bulcke speaks during a meeting in Switzerland. Photographer: Charles Ellena/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
