-- New Jersey Senate Passes Christie's $29.4 Billion Budget; Assembly to Vote
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-06-29T01:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/new-jersey-senate-passes-christie-s-29-4-billion-budget-assembly-to-vote.html

          
          
             The  New Jersey  Senate passed
Governor  Chris Christie ’s $29.4 billion budget, after two
Republican holdouts in the Assembly dropped their objections,
clearing the way for passage in the Legislature.  
 Lawmakers in the upper chamber voted 21-19 to pass the
spending plan, with the entire 17-member Republican delegation
supporting Christie along with four Democrats who sought to
prevent a government shutdown. Without a budget in place by the
July 1 start of the fiscal year, the state wouldn’t have enough
money to pay all its bills, forcing it to curtail services.  
 The Democrat-led Assembly still hasn’t voted on the plan.  
 “Do I like this budget? No,” said Senator  Jeff Van Drew ,
a Cape May Democrat who was among those voting for it. “The
nation is watching us tonight. We cannot shut down the state.”  
 Christie, 47, New Jersey’s first Republican governor since
1997, was elected in November after he campaigned to rein in
state spending as property-tax bills climbed 72 percent in 10
years, to the highest average in the U.S. Christie’s  budget 
reduces school funding by $820 million and includes less aid for
towns and cities.  
 The governor had no comment following the Senate vote,
according to  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman. Christie may sign
the budget as soon as tomorrow, Drewniak said.  
 ‘Difficult Budget’  
 “This was the most difficult budget in my memory,” said
Senator  Anthony Bucco , a Republican from Denville who sponsored
the plan.  
 Democrats objected to some of the cuts Christie included in
his spending plan, the first of his term. In addition to the
school cuts, the governor slashes $445 million from municipal
funding and puts off a $3 billion payment to state pensions.  
 Earlier this month, Democrats tried unsuccessfully to
extend a tax surcharge on millionaires to raise enough revenue
to restore some senior programs, including property-tax rebates,
that Christie cut.  
 “Democrats will pass this budget only because the other
option, to shut the state down, would be worse,” Senate Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Sarlo  said during two hours of floor
debate before the evening vote. “Shared sacrifice needs to be
more than a bumper sticker.”  
 Two Assembly Republicans,  Alison Littell McHose  of Sparta
and  Michael Patrick Carroll  of Morristown, agreed earlier to
vote for the budget after initially saying they opposed it
because of how it allots $7.9 billion to local school districts.
Republican Assembly Conference Leader  Jon Bramnick , from
Westfield, said his party has enough votes to pass the plan in
the Legislature’s lower chamber.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        