-- New Yorkers Get More Flight Choices as Longest Runway at Kennedy Reopens
-- Mary Jane Credeur
-- 2010-06-29T19:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/new-yorkers-to-get-more-flight-options-as-longest-jfk-runway-opens-in-july.html

          
          
             New Yorkers will have more flight
choices and fewer delays as the longest runway at  John F.
Kennedy International Airport  reopens this week after a four-
month closure for a $348 million repaving and updating.  
 Carriers including  JetBlue Airways Corp.  and  Delta Air
Lines Inc.  will restore normal schedules on runway 13R-31L on
July 1, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said
today. Located on the airport’s bay side, the runway measures
14,572 feet (4.44 kilometers), making it the second-longest
commercial landing strip in the U.S. after one in Denver.  
 The runway usually handles about a third of all departures
at JFK, the fourth-most congested airport in the U.S., with more
than a quarter of all flights running late last year. To ease
delays during construction, takeoffs were held to 525 a day
instead of rising to the usual peak of 650 during the summer
travel season, port authority officials said.  
 “There are solutions to the delays and inefficiencies, and
we are working on them,” said  Anthony Coscia , chairman of the
port authority. The runway reopening will help, he said.  
 JFK’s biggest need now is a satellite-based system to
control air traffic, replacing the current ground-based network,
Coscia said. The “NextGen” upgrade will cost at least $40
billion through 2025, according to a U.S. Transportation
Department inspector general report last week.  
 Changed Mindset  
 JetBlue has been coordinating with air traffic controllers
to reduce bottlenecks during the runway repaving by holding some
planes at the gate. The airline had used the “first out”
method of lining up aircraft on the taxiway for departure, even
if final takeoff plans weren’t set, said Marisa Von Wieding,
head of JFK operations for the New York-based carrier.  
 “Queues for departures could be 30 or 40 aircraft deep,”
Von Wieding said in an interview. “Now, we have reduced taxi
times and reduced fuel use. It changed the mindset of how we do
business” at JFK.  
 Delta used similar procedures of backing aircraft away from
the gate and staging them at designated marker points until they
received final takeoff clearance, said  Anthony Black , a
spokesman for the Atlanta-based company.  
 “If we maintain some of the efficiencies we achieved
through this process of how we managed around the runway
closure, we can benefit from some of these things longer term,”
Black said.  
 Metering Process  
 The port authority plans to continue using this so-called
metering process and find more ways to automate and tweak the
system, Aviation Director  Susan Baer  said today in an interview.  
 “It was a lot of people paying a lot of attention, and if
a plane was away from the gate for a while but hadn’t taken off
yet, we had people on the phone right away to find out why and
fix it,” Baer said.  
 The new procedures probably will be expanded to LaGuardia
when additional equipment and air traffic control support is
available, she said.  
 JetBlue is the  biggest carrier at JFK  with 42 percent of
passengers, while Delta and its regional partners have about 30
percent, government data show.  
 Repaving the runway required milling 6 inches of asphalt
and replacing it with 18 inches of concrete, which lasts about
five times longer than asphalt. The runway also was widened by
50 feet to 200 feet to accommodate the largest commercial
planes, such as Airbus SAS’s A380 superjumbo jets.  
 Other projects to reduce congestion were done at the same
time, including building access points for planes on nearby
taxiways and installing new lighting and electronic equipment.  
 JFK is the busiest airport in the New York region and the
sixth-busiest airport in the U.S., handling about 46 million
passengers last year, according to Airports Council
International.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        