-- New York City Council Approves $63.1 Billion Budget, in Late 48-to-1 Vote
-- Martin Z. Braun
-- 2010-06-29T22:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/new-york-city-council-approves-63-1-billion-budget-cutting-school-funds.html

          
          
             New York’s City Council approved a
$63.1 billion budget for fiscal 2011, cutting funds for schools,
libraries and social programs as tax revenue, federal and state
aid decline, and employee salary and benefit obligations rise.  
 Council members in the most-populous U.S. city ratified by
48 to 1 a June 25 agreement between Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and
Council Speaker  Christine Quinn  that contained no new taxes. Two
members were absent. The budget keeps the police department’s
uniformed headcount at 35,000 and saves 20 fire companies
targeted for closing.  
 The city rolled over $3.6 billion of surplus to balance the
fiscal 2011 budget and drew down $375 million from a health-care
trust fund. Job losses, including dismissals, may total hundreds
among the city’s 300,000 employees, the mayor said. More cuts
may be necessary should the U.S. Congress reject a Medicaid
funding bill New York is relying on for $600 million in the next
two years, Bloomberg has said.  
 “We were faced with difficult decisions to make,” said
Quinn. “The budget we’ve reached focuses on our limited
resources, on protecting core services to the most vulnerable
New Yorkers.”  
 The council added $395 million in spending to the mayor’s
budget, including $61.5 million to libraries, $31.1 million for
the City University of New York and $37.7 million for children’s
services.  
 The final budget contains about $50 million in so-called
member items, or appropriations sponsored by council members for
favored nonprofit community organizations in their districts,
including $21,000 for the Brooklyn Academy of Music and $210,000
for the 92nd Street Young Men’s and Young Women’s Hebrew
Association in Manhattan.  
 Overall, discretionary funding for community-based
organizations declined 20 percent to $165 million from $207
million, Quinn said.  
 Rising Costs  
 Rising pension and health-benefit costs complicated the
task of balancing a budget that already faces a $1.3 billion cut
in state revenue-sharing and school aid. It’s being compounded
by the failure of Governor  David Paterson  and the Legislature to
agree on a spending plan.  
 Future budgets will be tougher to balance should the
federal government not renew billions of dollars in economic-
stimulus payments, Bloomberg said. City analysts predict  gaps  of
about $3.8 billion in 2012, $4.6 billion for 2013 and $5.4
billion in 2014.  
 State law and the  City Charter  require the mayor and
council to adopt a balanced budget by the June 30 end of the
fiscal year.  
 State Aid  
 To compensate for the loss of state aid, including $493
million in reduced school funding, and to save 4,400 teachers’
jobs targeted for termination, Bloomberg removed more than $900
million reserved in a January spending plan for salary raises of
4 percent.  
 Any future pay boosts for teachers and other city employees
would have to be paid for through productivity increases or
contributions to pension and health plans, Bloomberg said last
month. The city’s contract with its teachers expired in October.  
 More savings will come from reduced spending that will cut
library service to five days a week from six; closing some of
the city’s 339 day-care placements, and shutting some programs
for seniors, AIDS patients, the homeless and the mentally ill. A
scholarship program to CUNY, summer jobs for youth and support
for legal services for the poor saw funding trimmed.  
 New York City plans to borrow $8.2 billion for capital
projects in fiscal year 2011 and pay $7 billion in debt service,
according to  budget documents . At the end of the budget year,
the city will have $90 billion in outstanding debt.  
 General Obligations  
 New York City’s general obligation bonds maturing in  10-
years  yield 3.75 percent or 0.62 percentage point more than top-
rated bonds of the  same maturity , according to Bloomberg data.
That risk premium, or spread, is about 9 basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, less than the average spread over the last
year.  
 Fitch Ratings, in a report this month on the city’s
intention to sell $800 million in debt, assigned an AA credit
rating, its third-highest.  
 “Advanced, effective budget monitoring and management and
conservative revenue forecasting have allowed the city to react
quickly to changing conditions,” the report said. It added that
officials had “continued sound action to address budget gaps in
a time of uncertainty, particularly regarding the outlook for
state funding.”  
 The city’s reliance upon Wall Street for more than 12
percent of its jobs and 30 percent of income remains a risk to
future revenue should the financial industry falter, Fitch said.  
 The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        