-- New York's MTA Borrows $600 Million as Deficit Curtails Subway, Bus Lines
-- Justin Doom
-- 2010-06-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/new-york-s-mta-borrows-600-million-as-deficit-curtails-subway-bus-lines.html

          
          
             New York ’s Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, which eliminated two subway lines and
cut bus service to save money, plans to sell $600 million in
bonds as it grapples with an $800 million spending gap.  
 The largest U.S. transit system’s yield premium has surged
24 percent since April 1 while subsidy payments were delayed as
the state operated without a budget, and a payroll tax and
dedicated real-estate levies produced less revenue than
forecast.  
 The MTA, which carries  8.5 million people  on an average
weekday, will issue $555 million in taxable Build America Bonds
for transit and commuter projects and $45 million in tax-exempts
backed by transportation revenue. Barclays Plc will lead
underwriters marketing the securities, rated A by Standard &
Poor’s, sixth-highest, and A+ by Fitch Ratings, one level
higher.  
 “The MTA’s credit is normally pretty widely accepted,”
said  Terry O’Grady , senior vice president of municipal trading
at FMS Bonds Inc. in North Miami Beach, Florida. Even amid the
budget issues, “as far as market demand, I think it’ll be
fairly strong,” he said.  
 The MTA will save $93 million through the latest  service
cuts , spokesman Aaron Donovan said. The agency eliminated the V
and W subways and dropped 15 percent of its bus lines, amounting
to more than three dozen routes.  
 Build America Bonds  
 MTA’s most recent Build America issue was a $443 million
sale in March. The taxable securities due in 2040 were traded
April 1 at an average yield of 6.1 percent, or  141 basis points 
above 30-year Treasuries. The so-called spread  widened  to 175
basis points yesterday, with the bonds trading at an average
yield of 5.8 percent, according to Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board data. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 In the same period, the  Chicago Transit Authority , the
second-largest transportation system in the U.S., rated AA or
third-highest by S&P, saw its risk  premium  on Build America
Bonds over benchmark Treasuries widen 61 basis points, to 211
basis points yesterday.  
 Top-rated tax-exempts maturing in 10 years fell for a fifth
consecutive day yesterday, according to a survey by Concord,
Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors. The debt dropped
3 basis points to  3.11 percent , down from a six-week high of 3.2
percent touched June 15.  
 Fitch has a negative outlook on the MTA bonds, meaning
their rating may be lowered, reflecting certain dedicated
payroll-tax revenue that, as of May 31, was 25 percent less than
forecast in February and because of the delayed state budget,
analysts  Chad Lewis  and Emari Wydick said in a June 17 report.  
 Investor Interest  
 The MTA’s active approach to solving its budget issues may
boost investor interest, said  Justin Hoogendoorn , a managing
director with BMO Capital Markets’ Fixed-Income Group in
Chicago.  
 “They’ll have to fund the right level, maybe a few basis
points higher than their last sale,” Hoogendoorn said. “But
they’ve always been a reliable credit. They shouldn’t have too
much trouble.”  
 Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  
 DELAWARE RIVER PORT AUTHORITY , the regional transportation
agency that owns and operates four bridges linking Pennsylvania
and New Jersey, plans to offer $320 million in Build America
Bonds on July 1 to finance capital improvements. The bonds,
rated seventh-highest by Moody’s, at A3, and S&P, at A-, will be
used for capital-improvement projects and to refinance debt.
Citigroup Inc. will lead a group of underwriters in marketing
the securities. (Added June 29)  
 LOS ANGELES COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT, the nation’s
largest two-year system, with about 141,000 students, is
scheduled to offer $125 million in taxable bonds tomorrow. The
district is rated second highest at Aa1 by Moody’s. Citigroup
will lead marketing of the securities, which will be used for
improvements on the district’s nine campuses, including a green-
technology student union at Los Angeles City College and a
performing-arts center at Los Angeles Valley College. (Updated
June 29)  
 MASSACHUSETTS WATER POLLUTION ABATEMENT TRUST, a state
agency that provides low-cost loans for local water and sewer
projects, will sell about $498 million of top-rated municipal
bonds today to refinance debt and pay for water-treatment and
drinking-water projects. The bulk of the sale will be $330
million of federally subsidized Build Americas. Underwriters led
by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will market the issue. (Updated June
29)  
 NEW YORK LIBERTY DEVELOPMENT CORP., a state arm created to
finance loans for lower Manhattan construction, will sell $650
million in tax-exempt municipal bonds tomorrow to refinance debt
from the Bank of America Tower project at One Bryant Park. Bank
of America Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase & Co. will
underwrite the securities, which are top-rated by Fitch and
Moody’s. (Updated June 29)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Justin Doom  in New York at 
 jdoom@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A commuter waves as the downtown "W" train leaves a subway station in New York. Photographer: Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
