-- New York Lawmakers' Budget Bills Hit by Governor Paterson's Partial Veto
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-06-29T18:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/new-york-lawmakers-budget-bills-hit-with-governor-paterson-s-partial-veto.html

          
          
             The  New York  Legislature approved
budget bills that its leaders said closed a $9.2 billion  deficit 
and eliminated the threat of a government shutdown looming over
Albany this month.  
 Hours after yesterday’s vote, Governor  David Paterson 
vetoed $419 million of  education spending  included in the
package. He will also veto other spending increases as well as
6,800 so-called member items that lawmakers use to funnel state
funds to groups in their districts, he said last night in
Albany.  
 The bills passed by Democratic lawmakers controlling the
Senate and Assembly “presented us with the same gimmicks,
chicanery and avoidance conduct that has characterized fiscal
management of this state for far too long,” said Paterson, a
Democrat who isn’t seeking election in November.  
 Paterson, 56, said the lawmakers’ budget isn’t balanced. He
added that it would result in a deficit of $400 million to $1.5
billion, depending on how much the U.S. Congress reduces $1.06
billion of extra federal money for Medicaid that he said the
state isn’t going to collect in full.  
 “We responsibly have to have a Medicaid contingency plan”
or else the state will face a deficit later this year, he said.
When a budget deficit emerged last year, lawmakers failed to
approve spending cuts to close it, “and I’m not going to let
that happen again,” Paterson said.  
 Medicaid Dilemma  
 He described how other states are preparing for the loss of
some Medicaid funding, and said it was wrong for legislators to
argue that such planning would make it easier for federal
lawmakers to cut the program.  
 New York, the nation’s third-most populous state, has
operated under emergency spending measures since April 1, after
lawmakers and the governor failed to agree on how to close the
deficit in a $135 billion spending plan Paterson proposed in
January.  
 In the absence of a comprehensive budget, the governor has
shuffled funds between accounts and delayed payments to schools
and contractors.  
 Paterson’s veto yesterday came after lawmakers refused to
accept a bill from him that contained less  education  funding
than they wanted. They also wouldn’t reduce other spending to
create a reserve for the potential cuts in Medicaid, which
provides health care for the poor.  
 Two-Thirds Vote  
 The veto can be overturned by a two-thirds vote in each
chamber. Democrats hold 107 seats in the 150-member  Assembly . In
the 62-member  Senate,  where the 32 Democrats are the minimum
number needed to pass legislation, a two-thirds vote would
require support from Republicans.  
 Senate Republicans voted unanimously against all the budget
bills. The Democrats’ plan “taxes too much and spends too
much,” Republican Senate leader  Dean Skelos  of Rockville Centre
on Long Island said in a statement.  
 Assembly Speaker  Sheldon Silver , a Manhattan Democrat,  said 
the Legislature’s budget plan “provides adequate revenue.”
Paterson’s veto “will mean larger classes, higher property
taxes and more expensive tuition” for students in the state or
New York City university systems, Silver said.  
 Lawmakers said the additional education funding would have
reduced property taxes because many districts would have been
required to apply the funds to lower the local levy on
homeowners.  
 After passing the budget in pieces, with each bill
consisting of hundreds of pages of itemized appropriations,
there is no compilation of the spending measures to show how
much the state plans to spend in the fiscal year that began
April 1.  
 No Number  
 “We do not have a number,” said Senate Finance Committee
Chairman  Carl Kruger , when asked the size of the budget during
debate on the Senate floor. Even without knowing a spending
total, there is enough revenue to balance the budget, said
Kruger, a Democrat from Brooklyn.  
 Lawmakers plan to vote on tax changes that are part of
their revenue plan later this week, said Senate Democratic
leader  John Sampson  of Brooklyn.  
 Total spending, including federal aid, is about $136
billion for the year that began April 1,  Austin Shafran , a
spokesman for Sampson, said after the Senate approved the bills.  
 Lawmakers in the Senate and Assembly assumed the full
federal Medicaid payment would be coming, as did Paterson in his
 February budget update . Earlier this month, the U.S. Senate
failed to approve the spending, leading Paterson to propose a 10
percent cut in agency budgets to fund a special reserve.  
 By appropriating money for parts of state government not
covered by earlier budget measures, the Legislature has ended
the threat of a government shutdown if it didn’t pass Paterson’s
weekly emergency spending bills, according to Sampson and
Paterson.  
 Paterson criticized lawmakers for failing to approve his
proposals for a cap on local school and government property
taxes and giving state universities more flexibility to increase
tuition.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        