-- LNG Storage Off Fujairah Equals 3 Months China Demand (Correct)
-- Dinakar Sethuraman
-- 2010-06-29T14:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/lng-tankers-off-fujairah-store-fuel-equivalent-to-3-months-china-demand.html

          
          
             (Corrects attribution of 66 percent in penultimate
paragraph.)  
 Liquefied natural gas tankers parked
off Fujairah in the United Arab Emirates are storing the
equivalent to about three months of China’s average purchases,
signaling an oversupply in the market.  
 About 43 percent of the total capacity of tankers in the
Gulf of Oman are holding LNG, Pan EurAsian Enterprises Inc. said
in an e-mail yesterday, citing data from Odysseus tracking
service. That’s equivalent to about 1.4 million metric tons of
the cleaner-burning fuel. China imported 7.63 billion cubic
meters, or 5.6 million tons, last year, according to BP Plc’s
Statistical Review of World Energy 2010.  
 An oversupply of gas and weak demand have sent spot charter
rates to the cheapest in five years, prompting producers and
traders to take advantage of the low charges to store the fuel.
Qatar, the world’s biggest producer of LNG, was idling at least
eight tankers in the Gulf of Oman as of June 3, according to
ship-tracking data from AIS Live Ltd. The vessels have a
combined capacity of 1.8 million cubic meters, enough to supply
the U.K. for more than a month.  
 The 32 vessels off Fujairah include 26 Q-class tankers with
a capacity of more than 200,000 cubic meters each, the U.S.
energy consultant said. The parked vessels have a capacity of
about 3.1 million tons, or about 14 percent of the global
capacity afloat, the consultant said, basing its estimates on
the posted draft of the ships.  
 The LNG stored is equivalent to about 62 billion cubic feet
of natural gas (1.7 billion cubic meters), the note said.
Qatar will idle 66 percent of its export plants at various times
this year, according to company statements and Bloomberg
calculations.  
 LNG is created by cooling gas to about minus 260 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 162 degrees Celsius), shrinking it to about a
600th of the original volume, according to the U.S. Department
of Energy.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        