-- Former BofA Executive Taylor Leads $175 Million Takeover of Florida's TIB
-- David Mildenberg
-- 2010-06-29T21:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/north-american-financial-to-pay-175-million-for-florida-s-tib-financial.html

          
          
             North American Financial Holdings,
which raised $900 million to buy banks, is acquiring  TIB
Financial Corp ., Florida’s third-biggest listed bank holding
company.  
 North American, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, and run
by Chief Executive Officer  Gene Taylor , a former Bank of America
Corp. vice chairman, will pay $175 million for 99 percent of
TIB, the Naples-based company said in a statement today. The
price equates to 15 cents a share, 78 percent less than today’s
closing stock price of 69 cents.  
 TIB has taken about $89 million in cumulative losses since
the start of the financial crisis in 2007, analyst  Chris Marinac 
of FIG Partners LLC in Atlanta said in a telephone interview
today. TIB has a 24 percent market share in the Florida Keys,
according to a company  presentation  in May.  
 “We don’t think Florida is nearly out of the woods
relative to its economic situation and there’s still a lot of
work to be done, but the time is right to begin that work,”
Taylor said in an interview today. “We’ll continue to bid on
and hope to win FDIC-assisted transactions along seeking other
opportunities.”  
 Taylor worked at Bank of America for 38 years, including
stints heading its Florida business. His last position was as
head of commercial and investment banking, reporting to then-CEO
 Kenneth Lewis . Former Fifth Third Bancorp CFO  Chris Marshall  is
a co-founder of North American.  
 Board Members  
 Taylor and Marshall will join TIB’s board, along with R.
Bruce Singletary, another ex-Bank of America executive, and
Kenneth Posner, a former Morgan Stanley bank analyst, TIB said
in today’s statement. Existing management will remain in charge
of the bank, including CEO  Thomas Longe , who became CEO in May
2008, Taylor said.  
 Last year, Taylor led an unsuccessful effort to buy First
Southern Bank of Boca Raton, Florida, after Fortress Investment
Group, Crestview Partners and Lightyear Capital LLC agreed to
inject as much as $150 million each. North American’s lead
investor is New York’s Crestview Partners.  
 The North American agreement hinges on reaching an accord
with the U.S. over the $37 million in TARP funds received by
TIB. The Treasury has not forced buyers of distressed banks to
repay all of their TARP funds, a precedent that North America
expects to continue, Marshall said.  
 TIB’s shares sank 2.7 percent to 69 cents at 4:01 p.m. in
NASDAQ Stock Market trading.  
 TIB said on June 11 that it had signed an agreement with
former Sky Financial Group Inc. CEO  Marty Adams  to help the
company raise $150 million. North American has no affiliation
with Adams’ group, Taylor said.  
 UBS AG and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz advised North
American. Sandler O’Neill & Partners and Smith MacKinnon advised
TIB.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        