-- Norway Housing Bubble Risks Grow as Euro-Region's Crisis Delays Rate Rise
-- Josiane Kremer
-- 2010-06-29T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/norway-housing-bubble-risks-grow-as-euro-region-crisis-delays-rate-rise.html

          
          
             Norway faces increased risk of a
housing bubble because Europe’s sovereign debt crisis has forced
the Nordic nation’s central bank to keep borrowing costs low to
avoid strengthening the krone, the financial watchdog said.  
 “The prospect of a longer period of low interest rates
will stimulate demand and we will see house prices continue to
increase,” said Bjoern Skogstad Aamo, Director General at
 Norway’s Financial Supervisory Authority  in an interview in Oslo
on June 28. “There is a risk of a bubble.”  
 Policy makers last week left the benchmark rate at 2
percent and signaled they may shelve the tightening cycle for
“a period,” citing uncertainties linked to Europe’s debt
crisis. The euro area woes, which may delay European Central
Bank rate increases, has put pressure on Norges Bank to avoid
krone gains even as a recovery in domestic demand boosted
 property prices  an annual 10.8 percent in the first quarter.  
 “The risk of a housing bubble being built would have been
reduced if the central bank could have conducted its monetary
policy without being so strongly affected by the weak
international outlook,” Skogstad Aamo said.  
 The  economy  of the world’s sixth-largest oil exporter was
shielded from the worst of the global crisis and returned to
growth earlier than its neighbors after record low interest
rates fueled consumption and fiscal stimulus measures kept
unemployment at the lowest rate in Europe.  
 Limited by Europe  
 Still,  rate  increases will be limited by loose monetary
policy in Europe and the U.S. as the bank tries to avoid pushing
up the krone, Deputy Governor  Jan F. Qvigstad  said in an
interview last week. The currency has gained 26 percent against
the euro since a December 2008 trough. It is up 5 percent
against the single currency this year and traded little changed
at 7.9033 in Oslo yesterday.  
 The EU, which accounts for more than 60 percent of Norway’s
exports, is struggling to overcome a debt crisis triggered by a
swelling of Greece’s budget deficit to 13 percent of gross
domestic product, more than four times the EU limit. European
leaders last month hammered out a 750 billion-euro rescue
program ($914 billion) for the region’s weakest economies.  
 About 90 percent of Norwegian mortgage holders use flexible
rates, meaning borrowing costs at or close to record lows have
been quick to feed through to disposable incomes. Property
prices are currently about 5 percent above the nominal peak in
2007, according to the FSA.  
 Debt Burden  
 The debt burden of Norwegian households, measured as a
percentage of disposable income, is at a record high and will
rise to about 200 percent by the end of the year, according to
Norges Bank’s latest  Financial Stability Report .  
 Household credit rose an annual 6.4 percent in May after a
6.3 percent increase the previous month, indicating demand for
loans is growing.  
 “I expect property prices to continue to rise throughout
the year, but at a much more moderate pace than in 2009,” said
Katrine Boye, an economist at Nordea Bank AB in Oslo. “The
reduced interest-rate path may have increased the risk of a
housing bubble somewhat. But pulling in the other direction are
the new guidelines from the FSA, which will have a dampening
effect on housing demand and credit growth.”  
 In March, the FSA issued guidelines urging banks not to
provide mortgage loans that exceed 90 percent of a home’s value.
The Norwegian watchdog is not the only authority eager to curb
household debt. In neighboring Sweden, where house  prices rose 
for the 13th period in a row in the three months through May,
the Financial Supervisory Authority proposed capping mortgage
lending at 85 percent of the value of a property from Oct. 1.  
 “Some households will have a negative surprise,” Skogstad
Aamo said. “There is a certain risk of a decline in housing
prices in 2012, 2013 when interest rates are restored to a more
normal level. A bubble may then burst.”  
 The lowest mortgage rate of  DnB NOR ASA , Norway’s biggest
lender, is 3.25 percent for a loan of more than 2 million kroner
with a security of 75 percent, according to Thomas Midteide, a
spokesman at the bank.  
 Mortgage rates will most likely return to a level of around
6 percent to 7 percent by 2012, 2013, according to the FSA.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top Stories: TOP<GO>
Top Nordic Stories: TOP SCA <GO>
Norwegian Economy: NI NOECO BN <GO>
Norges Bank Portal CBNO <GO>  
          
          


  


        