-- Novartis, Myriad Get Boost After Court Patent Ruling (Correct)
-- Susan Decker
-- 2010-07-01T15:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/novartis-myriad-may-get-shield-for-diagnostic-tests-after-high-court-case.html

          
          
             (Corrects client name in 13th paragraph of story that ran
June 29.)  
 Myriad Genetics Inc., Genomic Health
Inc. and the rest of the burgeoning industry for personalized
medicine stand to gain from yesterday’s landmark U.S. Supreme
Court decision on patenting business methods.  
 The Supreme Court ruled that judges should be more flexible
in determining if methods, rather than objects, are eligible for
patents, citing emerging technologies such as medical testing.
The justices followed through today, ordering a lower court to
reconsider two cases involving Prometheus Laboratories Inc. and
Classen Immunotherapies Inc., which sell tests that determine
how to treat a patient.  
 “This puts diagnostic methods back in play in a way that
they potentially would not have been,” said Heidi Keefe, a
lawyer at Cooley Godward in Palo Alto, California, who
represents biotech companies. “It gives them a new chance.”  
 The question now is how the Federal Circuit will apply the
ruling to diagnostic tests. Novartis AG, Laboratory Corp. of
America Holdings’ Monogram Biosciences and Genomic Health were
among companies who said in court filings that they need the
patent protection to attract investors. The companies make
genetic tests that tell doctors if a patient is susceptible to a
particular disease or would respond to certain medicines.  
 “Diagnostics are on the front line,” said Nick
Groombridge, a lawyer at Weil Gotshal in New York who
specializes in biotech and health patents. “The issue is always
that, fundamentally, most diagnostic techniques are
comparisons.”  
 $24 Billion Market  
 Interest in personalized medicine has grown partly as
health-benefit companies including Medco Health Solutions Inc.
and CVS Caremark Corp. see a way to trim costs by targeting
drugs to people whose genetic makeup proves they will benefit.  
 The annual market for diagnostic tests and drugs tailored
to individuals was expected to total $24 billion last year,
according to a report in October from New York-based
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The sum may grow 10 percent a year,
reaching $42 billion by 2015, the consulting company said.  
 Yesterday’s decision involved a patent sought by Bernard L.
Bilski and Rand A. Warsaw, creators of a method of hedging
weather-related risks when buying and selling fuel. The U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in 2008 ruled that
patents shouldn’t be granted on business methods unless they
have some physical component, through a connection to a machine
or their power to transform an item into a different state.  
 The Supreme Court reviewed the decision and ruled that the
standard for defining patent eligibility was too narrow and
urged legal protections for registering business methods.  
 ‘Sigh of Relief’  
 “Medical diagnostics companies will breathe a tremendous
sigh of relief from this decision,” said Steve Henry, a lawyer
at Wolf Greenfield in Boston. “All sorts of diagnostics and
analytics claims would fail the machine or transformation
test.”  
 Under current law, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office can
grant patents to machines, manufactured items, compositions of
matter such as drug compounds, or processes. Courts have
wrangled for decades over how to define processes and what
standard to use. The definition of a “process” was the subject
of the dispute before the Supreme Court.  
 The Federal Circuit, in a September 2009 decision involving
San Diego-based Prometheus, overturned a trial judge and upheld
patents related to methods of identifying metabolites of a drug
used to treat stomach disorders. The court said the method of
treatment results in physical changes in the body and therefore
met the test it had set a year earlier. The Mayo Medical
Laboratories, which operates within the Mayo Clinic, asked the
Supreme Court to overturn the Prometheus decision.  
 ‘Hard Questions Remain’  
 By remanding the Federal Circuit’s Prometheus decision
today, “issues surrounding diagnostic patents remain up in the
air,” said Mayo lawyer Jon Singer of Fish & Richardson in
Minneapolis. “Some hard questions remain.”  
 The Supreme Court also ordered the Federal Circuit to
reconsider a December 2008 decision that patents owned by
closely held Classen over a way of evaluating the effects of
vaccines were invalid. Classen had sued Biogen Idec Inc.,
GlaxoSmithKline Plc and Merck & Co.  
 In March, a federal judge in New York threw out some
claims, or aspects, of gene-related patents owned by Myriad
Genetics for a test to determine if a woman is at a high risk of
getting breast cancer, saying that comparisons of DNA sequences
are “abstract mental processes” and didn’t meet the test set
by the Federal Circuit in its 2008 decision.  
 Setting New Rules  
 The decision separately invalidated claims related to the
genetic markers themselves, with the judge saying they were no
different than what occurs naturally in the body.  
 The decision “leaves the Myriad patentability fight for
another day,” Amit Hazan, an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in New
York, said in a note to clients. In an e-mail, he added: “It’s
up to the federal courts now to develop new rules. Our belief
continues to be that Myriad patents will eventually be
invalidated.”  
 Patents on diagnostic methods “are integral and
inseparable ingredients in the larger process of managing and
treating disease,” Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis said in
its filing with the Supreme Court. “Such claims are at the
front-end of the healing process.”  
 ‘Hard to Plan’  
 LabCorp’s Monogram Biosciences, which makes diagnostic
tests for HIV and breast cancer, and Genomic Health, a maker of
tests to determine the likelihood of recurrence of breast
cancer, said they would have difficulty getting funding were it
not for patent protection.  
 “In the end, fewer personalized medicine avenues will be
explored and brought to market and patients will suffer,” the
companies told the Supreme Court in a filing.  
 The decision from the Supreme Court is unlikely to end the
debate over diagnostic patents.  
 “There’s going to be a period where the law is going to
get clarified but it hasn’t yet,” Groombridge said. “It’s hard
to make plans around this.”  
 The case is Prometheus Laboratories Inc. v. Mayo
Collaborative Services, 2008-1403, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). Yesterday’s case is Bilski v.
Kappos, 08-964, U.S. Supreme Court. The appellate court case is
In Re Bernard Bilski, 07-1130, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Supreme Court  
                       
                         
                           Chris Kleponis/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The U.S. Supreme Court in Washington, D.C. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The U.S. Supreme Court in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Chris Kleponis/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Consumer Genetics  
                       
                         
                           Sandy Huffaker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A gene-testing kit. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A gene-testing kit. Photographer: Sandy Huffaker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
