-- Obama Says Economy Hitting `Headwinds' From Europe
-- Julianna Goldman
-- 2010-06-29T21:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/obama-meets-with-bernanke-says-economy-is-hitting-headwinds-from-europe.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said after
meeting with Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  that the
U.S. economy is strengthening even as it faces “headwinds”
from the European debt crisis.  
 “We have seen some very positive trends in a number of
sectors,” Obama said at the White House after a meeting with
his economic advisers. “Unfortunately, because of the troubles
we’ve seen in Europe, we’re now seeing some headwinds and
skittishness and nervousness on the part of the markets.”  
 Bernanke, who joined the president for the daily economic
briefing, said he and Obama talked about how the U.S. economy is
being affected by events in Europe, without elaborating. They
met as a plunge in global stocks pushed the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  to its lowest close since October and three days
before a government report is forecast to show the economy lost
jobs for the first time this year.  
 Obama returned June 27 from a summit of the Group of 20
nations, where leaders agreed on a target for advanced economies
to at least halve deficits by 2013 and stabilize their debt-to-
output ratios by 2016.  
 “What’s happening around the world in emerging markets, in
Europe, affects us here in the United States, and it’s important
for us to take that global perspective as we discuss the
economy,” Bernanke said.  
 The Federal Reserve last week renewed a pledge to keep its
 benchmark interest rate  near zero for an “extended period” and
signaled that Europe’s debt crisis may harm growth in the U.S.  
 Record Low Rates  
 The central bank has few options left to boost the economy
after cutting borrowing costs to a record low in December 2008
and pumping some $1.6 trillion into the financial system through
asset purchases, a strategy known as quantitative easing. The
Fed ended the purchases in March.  
 “I think it’s unlikely that the Fed will have to renew its
quantitative easing, but it’s certainly not out of the
question,” said former Richmond Fed President J.  Alfred Broaddus . A “very weak” jobs report for June might push the
Fed in that direction, he said.  
 Payrolls probably fell by 115,000 this month, reflecting a
drop in federal census workers as the decennial population count
began to wind down, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists before a July 2 Labor
Department report. Private employment probably rose for a sixth
month.  
 Economy ‘Strengthening’  
 While there remains work to do on the U.S. recovery, Obama
said he and Bernanke share “the view that the economy is
strengthening, that we are into recovery.”  
 Obama said that in the U.S., there is “great concern about
the 8 million jobs that were lost” since the recession began in
December 2007.  
 Economic growth, jobs and mounting government debt will be
among the top issues in November’s congressional elections.
Obama is urging Congress to act on measures to boost lending and
give tax breaks to small businesses to encourage employment.  
 The Conference Board’s  confidence  index slumped to 52.9
this month from a revised 62.7 in May, figures from the New
York-based private research group showed today. The gauge was
lower than all projections in a Bloomberg News survey of 71
economists.  
 Treasury Yields  
 Ten-year Treasury note yields dropped below 3 percent for
the first time in more than a year as the confidence data,
combined with Conference Board figures showing China’s economic
outlook improved less than previously estimated, added to
concern the global economy is slowing.  
 The yield on the 10-year note fell to 2.95 percent from
3.02 percent yesterday. The S&P 500 Index slid 3.1 percent to
1,041.24.  
 Also attending today’s meeting were Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner ,  Lawrence Summers , director of Obama’s
National Economic Council, budget director  Peter Orszag  and Fed
Governor  Donald Kohn .  
 Obama also said winning passage of sweeping legislation to
overhaul financial regulations is vital to continued economic
stability.  
 “Not only will completion of the financial regulatory
reform bill provide some certainty to the markets, but it also
ensures that consumers will be protected like never before,”
Obama said.  
 Republican Support  
 The death yesterday of West Virginia Democratic Senator
 Robert Byrd , and Wisconsin Democrat  Russell Feingold ’s refusal
to back the final package mean Obama will need some Republican
support to obtain the 60 votes necessary push the measure ahead.  
 “I think there will be enough interest in moving reform
forward, we will get this done,” Obama said.  
 The administration’s effort suffered another blow today
when Massachusetts Senator  Scott Brown , a Republican who
previously backed the regulatory-overhaul bill, withdrew his
support because House and Senate negotiators inserted a $19
billion fee on banks and hedge funds. That wasn’t in the Senate
version of the bill, and the issue may be revisited by
congressional negotiators.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Obama  
                       
                         
                           Roger L. Wollenberg/Pool via Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. President Barack Obama speaks to the media after a meeting with his economic advisers including Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. President Barack Obama speaks to the media after a meeting with his economic advisers including Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve. Photographer: Roger L. Wollenberg/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
