-- Hogs, Cattle Drop as U.S. Meatpackers May Cut Output Before July 4 Holiday
-- Whitney McFerron
-- 2010-06-29T20:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/hogs-cattle-futures-decline-as-u-s-meatpackers-may-cut-output-on-holiday.html

          
          
             Hog and cattle futures fell to two-
week lows meat on speculation that processors will cut
production in advance of the U.S. Independence Day holiday.  
 Some meatpackers may run fewer hours this week before the
July 4 holiday, and grilling demand may ebb through July and
August, said  Rich Nelson , the director of research at Allendale
Inc. in McHenry, Illinois. Yesterday,  wholesale-pork  prices fell
to a one-week low, and  choice beef  has dropped 5.4 percent this
month.  
 For pork, “we’ve got maybe three plants saying they won’t
run on Friday, which is bearish by itself, but the Monday-
through-Thursday pace this week doesn’t look like it’s going to
make up for that,” Nelson said. “Typically, demand slows right
after the 4th of July because you don’t have anything lined up
until Labor Day.”  
 Hog futures for August settlement fell 1.225 cents, or 1.5
percent, to 80.95 cents a pound on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange. Earlier, the price touched 80.65 cents, the lowest
level since June 14.  
 Cattle futures for August delivery dropped 0.925 cent, or 1
percent, to 88.75 cents a pound. The contract earlier sank to
87.9 cents, the lowest price since June 15. Feeder-cattle
futures for August settlement declined 1.1 cents, or 1 percent,
to $1.12875 a pound.  
 Meat demand may rebound as retailers stock up a few weeks
before the U.S. Labor Day holiday on Sept. 6, when many
Americans grill outdoors, Nelson said. Demand for meat for
grilling tends to wane in July and early August as temperatures
peak in the U.S., he said.  
 Lower U.S. equities and a higher  dollar  also pressured
commodities including livestock futures today. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  touched the lowest level since November, and
the dollar climbed as much as 0.8 percent against a basket of
six currencies, eroding the prospects for U.S. meat exports. The
 Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of 19 commodities plunged the most
since last August.  
 “The stock market is a concern right now, with demand
being the biggest driver,” Nelson said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        