-- Crude Oil Falls Below $78 as Storm Avoids Gulf of Mexico Production Areas
-- Christian Schmollinger
-- 2010-06-29T07:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/oil-falls-for-a-second-day-as-storm-avoids-gulf-of-mexico-production-areas.html

          
          
             Crude oil fell for a second day in
New York as traders bet slowing economic growth will curb demand
and a tropical storm avoided Gulf of Mexico production areas.  
 Oil dropped from a seven-week intraday high of $79.38 a
barrel yesterday as U.S. forecasters projected that Tropical
Storm Alex will move across the southern Gulf and gain hurricane
strength, making landfall in Mexico. The Conference Board today
corrected its April gauge for the outlook on China’s economy,
saying it increased by the least since November. Japan’s
industrial production and household spending slipped in May and
unemployment unexpectedly increased, data showed.  
 “What seems to have supported oil prices has been the news
of storms in the Gulf, tightening some of the supply side of the
market,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at
National Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne. “Supply is looking
more positive now.”  
 Oil for August delivery fell as much as $1.58, or 2 percent,
to $76.67 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. It was at $76.75 at 3:31 p.m. Singapore
time. Yesterday, the contract dropped 61 cents, or 0.8 percent,
to $78.25. Futures have declined 1.6 percent this year.  
 Crude is heading for its first quarterly decline since the
end of 2008, losing 8 percent since the end of March, on signs
that the economic recovery is slowing. Japan’s industrial
production and household spending slipped in May and the
unemployment rate unexpectedly increased, in signs that the
recovery of the world’s second-largest economy may slow.  
 Conference Board  
 The U.S. economy may have lost jobs in June, the first
decline since December, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
51 analysts before the June 2 Labor Department report.  
 The measure of China’s economy compiled by the New York-
based Conference Board rose 0.3 percent, less than the 1.7
percent gain it reported June 15. The research group said in an
e-mailed statement that the previous reading contained a
“calculation error” for total floor space on which
construction began.  
 “Oil was probably oversold towards the end of May, early
June,” National Australia Bank’s Westmore said. “Now we’re
getting to a point around the high $70s which is probably in
line with what you’d expect, based on the fundamentals.”  
 U.S. crude oil supplies  probably fell  900,000 barrels last
week from 365.1 million the prior week, according to the median
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News before an
Energy Department report tomorrow. It would be the first drop in
three weeks.  Gasoline inventories  probably slipped 400,000
barrels from 217.6 million the prior week.  
 Tropical Storm  
 Tropical Storm Alex, is “strengthening” with maximum
sustained winds of 65 miles (105 kilometers) per hour, the U.S.
National Hurricane Center said in an advisory. A hurricane
warning has been issued for the coast of Texas south of Baffin
Bay, it said.  
 The Gulf is home to about 30 percent of U.S. oil and 12
percent of its natural gas production. It also has seven of the
10 busiest U.S. ports, according to the Army Corps of Engineers.
The region accounts for about half of U.S. refining capacity,
according to the Energy Department.  
 BP Plc and Royal Dutch Shell Plc, the biggest oil producers
in the Gulf, yesterday started evacuating crews from some
offshore platforms in the region as a safety precaution.  
 BP removed non-essential workers from its Atlantis, Mad Dog
and Holstein oil-production platforms in the western part of the
Gulf, company spokesman  David Nicholas  said. Output wasn’t
halted, he said. London-based BP’s response to a record U.S. oil
spill in northern and eastern parts of the Gulf also is
unaffected.  
 “Even if production is lost because of this, crude stocks
are high, so we do not expect any crude price impact” Societe
Generale analysts, led by  Michael Wittner , said in a note
yesterday.  
 Brent crude for August delivery fell as much as $1.55, or 2
percent, to $76.04 a barrel on the ICE exchange in London. It
was at $76.07 at 3:30 p.m. Singapore time. Yesterday, the
contract fell 53 cents, or 0.7 percent, to settle at $77.59.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        