-- Galena Fund Beats Clive Capital, BlueGold Last Month on Gold, Copper Bets
-- Chanyaporn Chanjaroen
-- 2010-06-29T06:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/london-s-galena-fund-beats-clive-bluegold-in-may-on-gold-copper-wagers.html

          
          
             Galena Asset Management Ltd.’s $700
million commodities fund rose 4.2 percent last month after
correctly predicting gold and copper prices, beating BlueGold
Capital Management LLP and Clive Capital LLP.  
 Galena’s returns in May were the highest in six months,
according to a report to investors provided to Bloomberg.
BlueGold, with $1.8 billion in assets, fell 12.5 percent, two
investors said earlier this month. Clive Capital’s $3.9 billion
hedge fund dropped 6 percent, with losses in oil, natural gas
and platinum, a report to investors showed.  
 Gold reached a then record $1,249.40 an ounce May 14 as
investors accumulated record holdings of bullion to protect
savings from the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe. Copper fell
6.6 percent last month, the steepest drop since January, as
investors speculated that European budget cuts will curb
economic growth.  
 “Managers who make money are those who are quick in their
trades,” said  Fraser McKenzie , head of research at Pfaeffikon,
Switzerland-based 47 Degrees North Capital Management LP, which
manages $250 million in hedge funds. They need to be “quick to
take profits from their trade, able to scale back their
positions and not be wedded to fundamental ideas.”  
 The $1.1 billion Louis Dreyfus Commodities Alpha Fund
gained 0.6 percent last month betting on lower sugar prices,
according to a report to investors. Raw-sugar futures traded in
New York dropped 6.3 percent last month.  
 Precious Metals  
 The Galena Fund invests in industrial and precious metals
and gained every year since it started in 2004, returning an
average 15 percent annually, according to the report. It rose 8
percent this year.  
 The manager is  Duncan Letchford , 38, who joined in October
2005 after trading industrial metals for HSBC Holdings Plc in
London, according to the company’s website. He started his
career at N.M. Rothschild & Sons Ltd. in 1990 as a dealer in
platinum and related metals.  
 Galena Asset Management, based in London, is a unit of
commodities trader Trafigura Group. Galena has five funds in
commodities and energy. Letchford declined to comment.  
 Clive Capital’s returns are for the Class B shares,
introduced in May 2008. They returned 15.8 percent last year and
16.1 percent in 2008. BlueGold made 380 percent from its start
in February 2008 to the end of 2009.  
 Commodity funds declined 1.7 percent on average in May,
according to New York-based Hedgefund.net. The Reuters/Jefferies
CRB  index  of 19 raw materials fell 8.2 percent, the most since
November 2008. Zinc dropped 15 percent and crude oil 14 percent.  
 Touradji, Armajaro  
 Paul Touradji ’s Global Resources Fund, based in New York,
fell about 5 percent last month, according to two investors who
declined to be named because the information isn’t public.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Touradji Capital Management LP, which
manages $2.5 billion, declined to comment.  
 Some other commodity hedge-fund managers with $1 billion or
more in assets had losses last month.  John Tilney ’s Armajaro
Commodities Fund declined 8.8 percent, the biggest drop since it
started in 2004, according to a report to investors. It lost
money on trades in platinum,  industrial metals  and energy.  
 Armajaro Commodities fell 8.7 percent this year, paring its
return to investors since 2004 to almost 107 percent. The
company confirmed the figures and declined to comment.  
 Investors in funds linked to commodity indexes didn’t do
any better this year. The  S&P GSCI Total Return Index , tracking
net returns to investors, lost 13 percent in May, the biggest
decline since December 2008 and wiping out gains in the first
four months.  
 ‘Big Positions’  
 Hedge funds are private, largely unregulated pools of
capital whose managers can buy or sell any assets and
participate substantially in profits from money invested.  
 “Many of the larger funds are forced to have big positions
relative to the markets because of their size,” said  Ernest Scalamandre , founder of New York-based AC Investment Management
LLC, which has more than $500 million invested in commodity and
energy funds. “When things change, they can’t change positions
as easily.”  
 A Bloomberg custom index of the net-long position, or bets
prices will rise, in U.S. commodity futures fell 28 percent last
month. The index, consisting of 20 raw  materials  monitored by
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, advanced 16
percent this month.  
 Actively managed funds including hedge funds recorded
outflows of $376 million in May, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. Investors added a total of $954 million in new money in the
first five months of the year. Passive funds, including those
tracking commodity indexes, attracted $3.5 billion in May,
taking total inflows to $4.8 billion for the year, the New York-
based bank said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in London at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        