-- Hong Kong Equities Decline the Most in Five Weeks on China Growth Concern
-- Jonathan Burgos
-- 2010-06-29T09:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/hong-kong-s-equities-decline-as-conference-board-revises-down-china-growth.html

          
          
             Hong Kong stocks  dropped, dragging
the Hang Seng Index to its biggest fall in five weeks, on
concern China’s economic expansion will slow after the New York-
based Conference Board revised down an estimate for growth.  
 Li & Fung Ltd. , the exporter of toys and textiles that
counts Europe as its second-biggest market, declined 4.8 percent
on a weaker euro.  HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s biggest lender by
market value, slid 2.1 percent.  Cnooc Ltd. , China’s biggest
offshore oil producer, dropped 3.6 percent after crude prices
fell for a second day.  
 “There are fears earnings in the second half will weaken
as margins come under pressure on rising Chinese wages and as
exports to Europe decline,” said  Michiya Tomita , a Hong Kong-
based fund manager for Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co.,
which oversees more than $64 billion. “If exports to Europe
drop sharply, there is a risk of a hard landing in China.”  
 The  Hang Seng Index  fell 2.3 percent to 20,248.90 at the
close, its biggest slump since May 25. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index  of so-called H-shares of Chinese companies
declined 2.7 percent to 11,536.20.  
 The Hang Seng Index has retreated 4.7 percent this quarter,
extending its decline this year to 7.4 percent, as worries about
budget deficits in Europe and tighter monetary policy in China
dented confidence in the strength of the global economy.  
 A leading economic index compiled by the New York-based
Conference Board rose 0.3 percent in April, less than the 1.7
percent gain that it reported on June 15. The research group
said in an e-mailed statement today that the previous release
contained a calculation error.  
 Waning U.S. Confidence  
 A separate survey by the group is expected to show the
board’s confidence index in the U.S. fell to 62.5 this month
from 63.3 in May, according to a Bloomberg survey before the
report today.  
 Shares of exporters will be under pressure because demand
from Europe may drop as governments address their mounting
fiscal deficits, Mitsubishi UFJ’s Tomita said.  
 China’s exports face “strong headwinds” in the second
half of the year from policy-tightening measures and the
European debt crisis, reducing the prospects for a rebound in
the stock market, said Citigroup Inc.  
 Li & Fung, which got 27 percent of sales from Europe last
year, lost 4.8 percent to HK$36.50.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. , the
Hong Kong clothier that counts Europe as its biggest market,
slipped 2.7 percent to HK$42.95.  
 HSBC, the London-based lender, fell 2.1 percent to HK$73.45,
the biggest drag on the Hang Seng Index.  
 “Renewed Turbulence”  
 Standard Chartered Plc , the U.K. lender that earns one-
third of its profit in Asia, lost 1 percent to HK$197.10. The
euro traded near the lowest level since November 2008 against
the pound on speculation European banks will have to borrow at
higher interest rates when they roll over loans that expire this
week.  
 European banks may struggle to refinance their debt if
investor sentiment remains negative, the Bank for International
Settlements said yesterday.  
 Global financial markets will face “renewed turbulence”
as structural deficits and public debt in Europe and the U.S.
hamper economic growth, Aberdeen Asset Management said.  
 Shares of commodity suppliers declined after oil and metal
prices dropped. Demand for resources will decline as growth
slows in China, the world’s third-largest economy, according to
 Danny Yan , a portfolio manager at Taifook Asset Management Ltd.,
which oversees $400 million.  
 Cnooc slipped 3.6 percent to HK$13.34. PetroChina Co., the
nation’s biggest oil producer, declined 2.1 percent to HK$8.74.
Oil for August delivery dropped as much as 2.6 percent in Asian
trading, extending yesterday’s 0.8 percent drop.  
 Jiangxi, Yanzhou Coal  
 Jiangxi Copper Co. , China’s biggest producer of the metal,
sank 3.3 percent to HK$14.78. Three-month delivery copper fell
as much as 2.3 percent on the London Metal Exchange.  
 Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. , China’s fourth-biggest coal
supplier, retreated 6.1 percent to HK$14.78 after the country’s
National Development and Reform Commission, the nation’s top
economic planner, told coal producers on June 25 to keep price
of the fuel stable.  
 Skyworth Digital Holdings Ltd. , a Chinese television maker,
tumbled 8.9 percent to HK$5.15, extending its decline for a
third day, after the company said on June 25 that sales growth
at its China unit missed estimates.  
 Cosco Pacific Ltd. , which took over operations of Greece’s
largest port last year, declined 4.3 percent to HK$9.19 after
the nation’s worker unions halted ferries, public transport and
other state services to protest government plans to cut pension
benefits and loosen labor laws.  
 Futures on the Hang Seng Index fell 2.7 percent to 20,187.
Forty-two stocks dropped on the 43-member gauge. Shares on the
benchmark index are priced at an average  13.4 times  estimated
earnings, down from 18 times on Nov. 16, the highest level in
2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        