-- Moody's Short-Term Debt Rating May Be Cut By Competitor Standard & Poor's
-- Christine Richard
-- 2010-06-29T22:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/moody-s-short-term-debt-rating-may-be-cut-by-competitor-standard-poor-s.html

          
          
             Moody’s Corp.’s short-term A-1 debt
ranking may be cut by Standard & Poor’s as a result of increased
risk stemming from the U.S. financial-overhaul bill agreed to by
U.S. lawmakers.  
 The legislation approved by a House-Senate conference last
week would allow investors to sue rating companies if they can
show they knowingly or recklessly failed to conduct a reasonable
investigation of facts relied on in assigning a credit grade and
may increase litigation costs, S&P, a unit of  McGraw-Hill Cos. ,
said today in a statement.  
 The final bill may also remove references to nationally
recognized statistical rating organizations in federal
regulation, reducing demand for ratings, according to S&P.  
 “There may be added risk to U.S.-based credit rating
agency Moody’s business profile following recent U.S.
legislation that may lower margins and increase litigation
related costs for credit rating agencies,” S&P said in the
statement placing the company’s debt ranking under review with
negative implications.  
 Moody’s and S&P, both based in New York, along with Fitch
Ratings, owned by Paris-based Financiere Marc de Lacharriere SA,
or Fimlac, have drawn criticism from officials, including
Financial Crisis Inquiry Chairman  Phil Angelides , and from
investors after assigning top ratings to securities that
collapsed in value.  
 Stock Falls  
 Moody’s, which is  13 percent  owned by  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., fell $1.24, or 5.8 percent, to $20.01
in New York Stock Exchange Composite trading before S&P released
its statement. It was the biggest drop in four weeks. The shares
have declined 25 percent this year.  
 Moody’s A-1 ranking is the second-highest grade. The
company has issued commercial paper and has $1.15 billion of
loans outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 A voicemail message left for  Michael Adler , a spokesman for
Moody’s, wasn’t immediately returned.  
 Companies are placed on review when there is a 50 percent
chance or more of a rating change, S&P said in the statement.  
 Moody’s A-1 ranking, which was assigned in October 2007,
was previously put under review by S&P with negative
implications in May 2008. The rating was removed from review two
months later.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Richard  in New York at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        