-- Moody Investors Says Japan's Fiscal Strategy Supports Aa2 Sovereign Rating
-- Benjamin Purvis
-- 2010-06-29T14:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/moody-investors-says-japan-s-fiscal-strategy-supports-sovereign-rating.html

          
          
             Japan’s plan to restore fiscal
health supports the stable outlook on the country’s Aa2 credit
rating, though the government will need to provide more details
on how to achieve its goals, Moody’s Investors Service said.  
 “A fleshing out of its details and demonstrated progress
in performance during the next year will be needed to maintain
market confidence,”  Thomas Byrne , senior vice president at
Moody’s, said in a statement released today.  
 Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  last week unveiled a plan to
balance the budget in 10 years, reduce bond sales and cap
spending to contain the world’s largest  public debt . The
government also said it would overhaul taxes “soon.”  
 Japanese government bond yields have fallen since the
strategy was released on June 22. The yield on the benchmark 10-
year  bond  dropped 4 basis points today to 1.098 percent.  
 “The initial market reaction has been positive,”
Singapore-based Byrne said. “Where Mr. Kan’s road map is weak
is in its lack of specificity in terms of the timing, form and
degree of revenue and expenditure measures, as well as in its
long duration.”  
 Byrne said Japan’s debt rating is underpinned by local
demand for government securities, citing that 94 percent of the
nation’s bonds are held by domestic investors. The banking
sector will support the “stable domestic-market funding base,”
he said, while adding that “there may be little margin for
error in implementation, or for downside surprises from a
fragile global economy.”  
 Fitch Ratings said in a separate statement today that
Japan’s fiscal plan “risks appearing leisurely given the sheer
size of the debt stock and may not do enough to head off the
longer-term build up of risks for Japan’s public finances.”  
 The strategy contains “no specific information on the
balance of tax increases against spending cuts, or which budget
items will be changed,” Fitch said, without commenting on
Japan’s AA- credit rating. It expects more details to be
provided after upper house elections on July 11.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
 Benjamin Purvis  at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        