-- Motorola, Nokia May Refile LCD Price-Fixing Lawsuit Against Samsung, LG
-- Edvard Pettersson
-- 2010-06-29T23:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/motorola-nokia-may-refile-lcd-price-fixing-lawsuit-against-samsung-lg.html

          
          
             Motorola Inc. ,  Nokia Oyj  and other
buyers of liquid crystal display panels used in handsets may
refile a price-fixing lawsuit they brought against makers of the
screens, including  Samsung Electronics Co.  and LG Display Co.  
 U.S. District Judge  Susan Illston  in San Francisco rejected
both federal and state antitrust claims brought by the mobile-
phone makers and gave them until July 23 to file amended
complaints.  
 Illston, agreeing with the LCD makers that Motorola failed
to show she had jurisdiction in the case, said the mobile-phone
maker didn’t demonstrate that products bought abroad were
imported into the U.S. or that there was an anti-competitive
effect in the U.S.  
 “Although  Motorola  argues that defendants intended for the
foreign-purchased LCD panels and products to be brought to the
United States, Motorola has not cited any authority adopting
such an expansive definition of ‘import,’” Illston said in an
order filed yesterday.  
 The judge also ruled that Nokia, which sought only damages
for domestic purchases and purchases directly imported into the
U.S., failed to distinguish between purchases of its Finnish
parent company and those of its U.S. subsidiary.  
 AT&T Inc. ’s wireless unit failed to allege that its
purchases of price-fixed products occurred in states whose
antitrust laws it invoked, the judge said.  
 Covered Class  
 In March, Illston certified a class action on behalf of
direct purchasers of LCDs or goods containing them from 1999 to
2006. She also certified a nationwide class of indirect buyers
who bought TVs and computers beginning in 1996.  
 Since 2008, six LCD makers have pleaded guilty and were
fined more than $860 million in a criminal investigation in the
U.S. Suwon, South Korea-based  Samsung , the world’s largest LCD
maker, hasn’t pleaded guilty to price fixing.  
 AU Optronics Corp., Taiwan’s second-largest flat-panel
maker and a defendant in the phone-maker’s lawsuit, was indicted
this month along with six of its executives for allegedly
conspiring to fix prices of flat-panel screens worldwide.  
 “Motorola is confident in our position, and the court has
permitted us to replead our complaint,” spokeswoman  Tama McWhinney  said in an e-mailed statement. “Under these
circumstances, we cannot comment further at this time.”  
 The case is In Re TFT-LCD (Flat Panel) Antitrust
Litigation, 07-1827, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        