-- Case Says Housing Starts `Dead Flat in the Mud': Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-06-29T17:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/housing-building-in-u-s-is-dead-flat-in-the-mud-case-says-tom-keene.html

          
          
             The U.S. housing market “is still
bouncing along the bottom” as vacancy rates outpace
historically low construction, said economist  Karl Case,  co-
creator of the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index.  
 The S&P/Case-Shiller index showed today that home prices in
20 U.S. cities rose 3.8 percent in April from a year earlier,
the biggest year-over-year gain since September 2006. Sales got
a boost from a tax credit aimed at reviving the industry that
triggered the worst recession since the 1930s.  
 While the report was “fairly positive,” Case said, home
building, which has driven the economy during past economic
expansions, “is dead flat in the mud.” Housing starts have
been at 15-year lows for the past 18 months, and vacancy rates
are increasing, he said.  
 “The unwritten story here is what’s going on with
household formations and the pattern of them,” the Wellesley
College economics professor said today in an interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Surveillance. “The census is telling us that
households are being formed, but they don’t seem to be showing
up.”  
 Case attributed this disconnect to fewer immigrants and
more emigrants, as well as the “doubling-up phenomenon” where
more people choose to live together or reside with their
parents.  
 California Effect  
 Compared with the prior month, 18 of the 20 areas covered
in the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index showed an increase on
an unadjusted basis for April, led by a 2.4 percent gain in
Washington and a 2.2 percent increase in San Francisco. Miami
and New York were the only two cities showing a monthly
decrease.  
 San Francisco could be reviving the U.S. housing market,
Case said, if it is able to propel California, which comprises
25 percent of the national market. California accounted for the
most national foreclosures during March, April and May.  
 “Some of the institutions out there were lending money at
rates that were beyond belief,” Case said. “If we can
stabilize that market alone, it will help a lot.”  
 Case is retiring tomorrow after more than 30 years at the
Wellesley, Massachusetts-based college.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 Akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at   tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        