-- Congress Asks Toyota for Brake-System Information
-- Angela Greiling Keane
-- 2010-06-29T20:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/toyota-must-provide-data-on-older-models-brake-system-u-s-lawmakers-say.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp.  must turn over
information about brake-override technology in older model
vehicles and describe the role a consulting firm plays in the
investigation of unintended acceleration, two lawmakers said.  
 Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, was asked to discuss
the override systems in cars such as the 2005 Camry, according
to a letter House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman  Henry Waxman  sent to the company today with Representative  Bart Stupak , chairman of the oversight and investigations panel.  
 The Democratic lawmakers also asked Toyota, based in Toyota
City, Japan, for information about the work that engineering and
research firm  Exponent Inc . is performing on unintended
acceleration in Toyota vehicles. The lawmakers asked the company
to contact the committee by July 6.  
 Toyota has been examined by U.S. lawmakers and auto-safety
regulators after a series of recalls, most tied to unintended
acceleration. Last week, the company halted sales of a new
hybrid Lexus sedan because too much fuel spilled in government
crash tests, posing a fire risk.  
 Waxman, of California, and Stupak, of Michigan, said in the
letter supplied to reporters that Menlo Park, California-based
Exponent “has not been fully cooperative with the committee’s
requests.”  
 Mike Michels , a spokesman for Toyota’s U.S. operations,
said he hadn’t seen a copy of the letter and couldn’t comment.  
 “We, of course, will cooperate with requests from the
committee,” he said.  
 Exponent Tests  
 Toyota has cited Exponent test results in concluding
electronic flaws aren’t causing its vehicles to suddenly
accelerate, which led to the recalls of more than 8 million cars
and trucks worldwide since last year.  
 Waxman and Stupak said technical experts notified them
following an examination of a 2005 Camry that “some older model
Toyotas may have a brake override function that activates when
the vehicle’s electronic throttle control system registers a
diagnostic trouble code.”  
 Toyota has promised, including in testimony this year
before Waxman’s committee, to equip all new vehicles with brake-
override software by model year 2011.  
 The lawmakers told  Jim Lentz , Toyota’s U.S. sales chief, to
provide the requested documents by July 12.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        