-- Paraguay Rides Luck to Claim First Berth in Soccer World Cup Quarterfinals
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-06-29T22:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/paraguay-rides-luck-to-claim-first-berth-in-soccer-world-cup-quarterfinals.html

          
          
             Paraguay’s first trip to the World
Cup quarterfinals is down to luck, according to the team’s coach.  
 The South Americans battled Japan for 120 scoreless minutes
in Pretoria yesterday before advancing to the last eight 5-3 in
a penalty shootout. They’d failed to move beyond the last 16 in
seven previous World Cup appearances.  
 “We were lucky in the penalty shootout and that made the
difference,” said coach Gerardo Martino, who burst into tears
after substitute Oscar Cardozo struck the winning penalty at
Loftus Versfeld stadium.  
 With both countries seeking a first quarterfinal appearance
at soccer’s four-yearly championship, the teams took few risks
in the round-of-16 matchup. The Japanese sat deep and allowed
their opponents to have 58 percent of the possession.  
 “We didn’t play well this time because of the tension
perhaps,” said Martino, an Argentine who guided Paraguay to
third place in South America’s World Cup qualifying group.  
 The coach said his team may have also benefited from a
favorable draw. Japan is ranked 14 places below Paraguay, which
is 31st in governing body  FIFA’s list .  
 “All the teams deserve our respect but it’s not the same
facing France in 1998, Germany in 2002, and Japan today,”
Martino added. France and Germany went on to reach the final in
those years after getting past Paraguay in the last 16.  
 The Paraguayans had the best of the 12 shots on target
yesterday.  
 Lucas Barrios forced Ejii Kawashimi to save with his legs
after 20 minutes and  Roque Santa Cruz  dragged his left-foot shot
wide 10 minutes later after a failed clearance.  
 Japan’s best chance came when Daisuke Matsui’s shot from 30
yards rattled the crossbar.  
 Missed Opportunities  
 “It’s very difficult to narrow down to one reason why we
didn’t score,” Japan coach  Takeshi Okada  told reporters. “We
are not a team which can score many goals basically and we
should have taken the opportunities when they arose.”  
 After the game finished 0-0 at the end of regulation, the
stalemate continued in the 30 minutes of extra time, setting the
stage for the 2010 World Cup’s first penalty shootout.  
 With Paraguay leading 3-2, Yuichi Komano’s shot bounced off
the crossbar and over. The next two spot kicks were successful,
before Cardozo strolled up and stroked the ball into the bottom
corner to send his team through.  
 “He asked to be the fifth one then he scored the way he
did,” said Martino, whose team will play Spain for a spot in
the semifinals on July 3 in Johannesburg. “If you have a player
who has the guts to play tough you take him.”  
 Cabanas Dedication  
 Paraguay’s players dedicated the victory to absent teammate
Salvador Cabanas, who is recovering after being shot in the head
in January while in a Mexican bar.  
 “He’s always with us,” said Paraguay forward Edgar
Benitez. “He gave us a boost.”  
 Okada said he hasn’t decided whether he will resign as
Japan coach.  
 Goalkeeper Kawashima stopped to speak with reporters as
Komano wept on his way to the team bus.  
 “We are very disappointed that we lost but we showed that
the Japanese team can play much better” than before, he said.
“We lost on penalties, not on goals.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at Loftus Versfeld via the London newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        