-- Spain Beats Portugal 1-0 to Reach World Cup Quarterfinal Against Paraguay
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-06-30T10:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/paraguay-beats-japan-5-3-in-shootout-to-advance-to-world-cup-quarterfinals.html

          
          
             European champion Spain beat
Portugal 1-0 to advance to a World Cup quarterfinal against
Paraguay, which ousted Japan 5-3 in the tournament’s first
penalty shootout.  
 David Villa  scored in the 63rd minute in Cape Town last
night to become joint top-scorer at the event with four goals in
four games. Portugal had  Ricardo Costa  red-carded in the 88th
minute after he fouled  Joan Capdevila .  
 Spain, one of the pre-tournament favorites, is seeking its
first World Cup title after shrugging off an underachiever tag
by winning the 2008 European Championship. It lost its opening
game 1-0 against Switzerland.  
 “This is the best Spain played since the World Cup
started,” Spain midfielder  Xavi Hernandez  said in a televised
interview.  
 Villa scooped the ball over Eduardo into the net after the
Portugal goalkeeper parried his first effort, which was set up
by Xavi’s back-heeled pass.  
 “That’s what he lives for,” Xavi said of Villa, who joins
Argentina’s  Gonzalo Higuain  and Slovakia’s  Robert Vittek  atop
the  goal-scoring list .  “He smells out goals.”  
 Today and tomorrow are the first rest days of the monthlong
tournament. The quarterfinals begin July 2 with the Netherlands
facing Brazil in Port Elizabeth and Uruguay taking on Ghana in
Johannesburg.  
 Casillas Busy  
 In the first half, Spain goalkeeper  Iker Casillas  worked to
keep the game scoreless. He parried a shot by Tiago after 20
minutes and then punched away the ball on the goal-line under
pressure from  Hugo Almeida .  
 Casillas spilled a 25-yard free kick by  Cristiano Ronaldo ,
although  Gerard Pique  cleared with a header. Just before
halftime, the Spain goalkeeper ran 30 yards off his line to cut
out a pass to Simao.  
 Fernando Llorente, a substitute for  Fernando Torres , helped
Spain improve its performance. The 6-foot-4 Athletic Bilbao
striker’s diving header was kept out by Eduardo a minute after
he entered in the 58th minute. He directed another header just
wide with three minutes remaining.  
 Portugal coach  Carlos Queiroz  said Spain deserved to win,
adding his players performed “with enormous dignity.”  
 “I really believe Portuguese fans have more than enough
reason to be very proud,” he told reporters. “Spain moved the
ball extremely well and had a good portion of possession.
Whoever does this will control the game.”  
 Paraguay Shootout  
 Paraguay made all five of its shootout attempts in Pretoria
to reach the quarterfinals for the first time in eight attempts
since the inaugural 1930 tournament. The game had ended 0-0
after 120 minutes including extra time.  
 Yuichi Komano hit the bar with the third of Japan’s four
shootout kicks and Oscar Cardozo stroked in his team’s fifth
kick to send Paraguay through. It was the first shootout of the
2010 World Cup.  
 “We’re not trying to rewrite a page of history but we are
among the best eight nations in the world and we’re celebrating
that,” Paraguay coach Gerardo Martino told a news conference.  
 Edgar Barreto, Lucas Barrios and Cristian Riveros all
scored spot kicks for Paraguay with Yasuhito Endo and Makoto
Hasebe converting for Japan. Komano then missed and  Nelson Valdez  made his kick to give Paraguay a 4-2 lead.  
 After Keisuke Honda converted to make it 4-3, Cardozo sent
the goalkeeper the wrong way to end the shootout.  
 “That was the worst few hours of my life,” Japan coach
 Takeshi Okada  told reporters. “In terms of how we played I have
no regrets at all. The players were wonderful, really
wonderful.”  
 Broke Free  
 In the first half, Paraguay’s Barrios broke free in the
penalty area and his shot was saved by goalkeeper Eiji Kawashima.
Daisuke Matsui hit the bar less than a minute later, and Honda
and Paraguay’s  Roque Santa Cruz  both shot wide before halftime.  
 Kaswashima stopped Riveros’s header in the second half and
Paraguay goalkeeper Justo Villar easily dealt with Japan’s
attempts as the game headed to extra time.  
 Kawashima caught a header from Barrios in the first extra
period, then came out to block a shot from Valdez. Neither team
came close to scoring in the final 15 minutes.  
 “We’ve taken another step forward, but we’ve not achieved
our goals yet,” added Paraguay coach Martino, whose team faces
Spain on July 3 in Johannesburg. “Let’s hope we can recover
quickly.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Rachel Brookes reports from the World Cup in South Africa on Spain's 1-0 win over Portugal to secure the last spot in the quarterfinals.
     Brookes also discusses the art of taking a penalty and puts on her boots to find out whether she can score against Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
