-- Petraeus: U.S. May Ease Rules of Engagement in Afghanistan
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2010-06-30T00:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/petraeus-says-u-s-may-ease-afghanistan-rules-of-engagement-to-aid-troops.html

          
          
             General  David Petraeus  today said
he’s concerned the U.S. military’s rules of engagement in
Afghanistan are too restrictive and putting American forces at
risk.  
 General  Stanley McChrystal , in an effort to curb civilian
casualties, issued directives that sharply curtailed the use of
lethal force. Civilian casualties are down, yet some troops have
charged that the restrictions make them more vulnerable.  
 U.S. and allied soldiers in Afghanistan are dying at the
fastest pace in the war, now nine years old and the longest in
U.S. history.  
 “I am keenly aware of concerns by some of our troopers,”
Petraeus told the Senate Armed Services Committee. He said he
discussed the issue with President  Hamid Karzai  and other top
Afghan officials “and they are in full agreement with me.”  
 “Those on the ground must have all the support they need
when they are in a tough situation,” Petraeus said as the
committee opened a hearing on his nomination to succeed
McChrystal as head of U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan.  
 Petraeus praised McChrystal for his “contributions in
leading the coalition endeavor in Afghanistan over the past
year.”  
 McChrystal’s Strategy  
 McChrystal reoriented U.S. strategy and built “the
organizations needed to carry out a comprehensive civil-military
counterinsurgency campaign,” said Petraeus, who now commands
U.S. forces throughout the Middle East and Central Asia.  
 President  Barack Obama  dismissed McChrystal last week for
remarks disparaging administration officials that were published
in Rolling Stone magazine. Spokesman  Robert Gibbs  today said the
White House wants the general to keep his four-star rank in
retirement.  
 Senator  Carl Levin  of Michigan, who is chairman of the
Armed Services Committee, told Petraeus he supports his
nomination, and Senator  John McCain  of Arizona, the ranking
Republican on the committee, told the general: “You’re an
American hero, and I’m confident you will be quickly and
overwhelmingly confirmed.”  
 The committee, by a voice shortly after the hearing ended,
gave its approval to the nomination and sent it to the full
Senate for confirmation. Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said the
Senate will vote at about noon tomorrow.  
 Taliban Remains Strong  
 Petraeus will lead a force of 142,000 U.S. and allied
troops who are in the midst of a possibly decisive offensive to
push Taliban insurgents out of their heartland of Kandahar
Province in southern Afghanistan.  
 Petraeus said the Taliban, even with their losses,
“continue to show an ability to adapt and respond” to NATO’s
changes in tactics.  
 “The size and intensity of the insurgency has increased in
proportion to” NATO’s expansion, he said. The Taliban’s
“increasing ability to project its influence” in the south,
southwest and east “indicates the Taliban suffer no shortage of
manpower,” Petraeus said. “They likely believe they will be
able to maintain their current strength and possibly grow.”  
 Petraeus sought to assure lawmakers that the president’s
planned drawdown of U.S. forces in July 2011 would be “based on
conditions on the ground” and he would have a voice in the
decision. Obama “assured me that he expects and wants me to
provide forthright advice,” he said.  
 “July 2011 will mark the beginning of a process, not the
date when the U.S. heads for the exits and turns out the
lights,” he said.  
 “It is going to be a number of years before Afghan forces
can truly handle the security tasks in Afghanistan on their
own,” Petraeus said. “The commitment to Afghanistan is
necessarily, therefore, an enduring one.”  
 Disagreement Over Timetable  
 Levin and McCain, in their opening statements, disagreed
over the wisdom of setting a date.  
 That strategy worked in Iraq and will work in Afghanistan,
Levin said. It “imparts a necessary sense of urgency to Afghan
leaders.”  
 McCain said he “would argue it is having the opposite
effect: It is causing Afghan leaders to hedge their bets on us.  
 “This is not only making the war harder; it is making the
war longer,” McCain said. “If the president would say that
success in Afghanistan is our only withdrawal plan -- whether we
reach it before July 2011, or afterward -- he would make the war
more winnable and hasten the day when our troops can come home
with honor, which is what we all want.”  
 Reconciliation  
 Petraeus said Karzai realizes the need to reconcile the
ethnic divisions which have hamstrung efforts to create a strong
national government and that this goal is possible.  
 “It is within the capacity of the Afghan people to see
themselves as Afghans first even before” their ethnic or tribal
identity, he said in response to a question from  Evan Bayh , a
Democrat from Indiana.  
 Relations with the Afghan president have been strained by
this issue and by Karzai’s efforts to strike a peace deal with
the insurgents and possibly reintegrate some into the Afghan
military.  
 While the Obama administration has voiced support for the
strategy, it is banking on military offensives in southern
Afghanistan to weaken the Taliban fighters and let Karzai
negotiate from a position of strength.  
 The Afghan government’s reconciliation program has the
“primary challenge” to “identify the right incentives and
provide the necessary resources to ensure the effective and
sustained reintegration of these fighters,” Petraeus said.  
 “Not every insurgent fighter will need to be
reintegrated,” Petraeus said. “Under the right circumstances,
many will simply desire to stop fighting and return home, though
we do not have a reliable estimate of this number.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Petraeus Says Military May Ease Rules of Engagement  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         General David Petraeus speaks during a confirmation hearing for reappointment and commander of the U.S. Forces in Afghanistan in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     General David Petraeus speaks during a confirmation hearing for reappointment and commander of the U.S. Forces in Afghanistan in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
