-- Pound Falls Against Dollar as Risk Aversion Increases; Gilts Erase Gains
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-06-29T16:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/pound-falls-from-seven-week-high-gilts-rise-as-stocks-drop-on-risk-flight.html

          
          
             The pound slipped from a seven-week
high against the dollar as concern that the pace of Chinese
expansion may slow drove stock markets lower, curbing demand for
assets perceived to be riskier.  
 Sterling also fell against the yen as the Conference Board
revised an economic index for China to show the smallest gain in
five months in April, pushing the MSCI World Index of shares
down 1.2 percent. Gilts fell, erasing earlier gains, as Bank of
England Markets Director  Paul Fisher  indicated policy makers
will deal with inflation pressures if they persist. The Treasury
sold 8 billion pounds ($12 billion) of 30-year bonds through
banks today.  
 “There’s a bit of risk aversion going on given negative
news in the past 24 hours, and some investors are switching to
safe currencies,” said  Michael Derks , chief strategist in
London at FXPro Financial Services Ltd., a foreign-exchange
trader.  
 The pound declined 0.2 percent to $1.5080 at 4:45 p.m. in
London. One pound bought 133.37 yen, 1.21 percent fewer than
yesterday. Sterling appreciated to less than 81 pence per euro
for the first time since November 2008, trading 0.6 percent
stronger at 80.59 pence.  
 Britain’s currency has declined 6.7 percent against the
dollar this year. It climbed 3.6 percent this month against the
dollar, the second-best performer among the world’s most-traded
currencies.  
 It rose to $1.5129 yesterday, the highest level since May
6, as investors bet last week’s emergency budget and spending
cuts will sustain Britain’s top credit rating without risking
economic growth. The gains pared sterling’s drop this year
against the dollar to 6.9 percent.  
 Gilts Fall  
 “Our medium-term view is that the pound will hold up
well,” Derks said. The fiscal consolidation plan by the
government has been well-received by the market.”  
 Gilts erased earlier gains after remarks by Fisher on June
14 were released by the central bank today. While “we need to
be sensitive to the risk of tightening policy prematurely,”
Fisher said, “should it appear likely that inflationary
pressure is sustained at a higher level into the medium term,
then it is clear what our mandate would require us to do.”  
 The yield on the 10-year gilt rose one basis point to 3.38
percent, after sliding to 3.31 percent earlier, the lowest since
April last year. The 4.75 percent security maturing in March
2020 fell 0.09, or 90 pence per 1,000-pound face amount, to
111.23. Two-year note yields rose three basis points to 0.78
percent.  
 Inflation ‘Reminder’  
 “Fisher didn’t suggest that the benchmark rate is going to
rise soon, but what he said is a reminder that there’s still a
risk out there that policy makers might have to increase
borrowing costs sooner than priced in by the market,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets
Ltd. in Edinburgh.  
 U.K. government bonds outperformed German debt in the
second quarter, handing investors a 4.24 percent gain, compared
with a 4.01 percent return from their European counterparts,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Gilts returned 5.57 percent this year.  
 The Debt Management Office sold 8 billion pounds of 4.25
percent gilts maturing in December 2040 through banks today. The
sale is its first so-called syndicated offering of regular bonds
for the fiscal year starting April.  
 ‘Deflation Hedge’  
 The bond was priced to yield one basis point more than the
gilts maturing in 2039, or the equivalent yield of 2.243
percent, attracting bids of 13.8 billion pounds, according to a
banker involved in the transaction.  
 “I can see it as a case for a deflation hedge for some
investors given what’s going on in Europe,” said  Robin Marshall , a director of fixed income at Smith & Williamson
Investment Management in London. “Concern earlier this year
about a supply glut has also eased after the government cut
spending, resulting in reduction on gilt issuance. These are
positive backdrops for this long-dated bond sale.”  
 U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s spending
cuts helped to lower gilt sales for this fiscal year to 165
billion pounds, from 185.2 billion pounds envisaged in April.
Britain sold an unprecedented 227.6 billion pounds of the
securities in the previous 12 months.  
 The yield on the existing 2039 gilts fell one basis point to
4.23 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        