-- Princeton as `Hedge Fund' Foils Residents Seeking Relative Share of Taxes
-- Moira Herbst
-- 2010-06-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/princeton-as-hedge-fund-foils-residents-seeking-relative-share-of-taxes.html

          
          
             Princeton University, the fourth-
richest institution of higher education in the U.S., paid more
than $10 million last year to its prosperous New Jersey
community. Municipal officials and residents say the college
should do more.  
 The university would pay about $28 million in additional
property taxes if all of its land were taxed, said Princeton
Borough Councilman  Kevin Wilkes . The college owns 43 percent of
the borough’s assessed land value and 13 percent of adjoining
Princeton Township’s, Wilkes said.  
 “The town budget is strapped and schools are looking at
laying off teachers,” said Princeton Borough resident  Peter Kann , former chairman and chief executive officer of  Dow Jones &
Co.  and the co-chair of Princeton Future, a civic organization.
“Then there is this enormously rich university. They give the
appearance of being wonderful donors to the town, but compared
with what they would be giving if they were paying property
taxes it’s really trifling.”  
 It’s the latest round in the town-gown faceoff, as U.S.
municipalities still reeling from the economic crisis turn to
their local universities, whose land holdings are mostly tax-
exempt, to close budget shortfalls. Those institutions say they
aren’t in a position to help: They are also scrimping to save
money through program and job cuts after record endowment
declines. Princeton University’s investments lost 24 percent in
the year ended June 30, 2009. The total value of the endowment
fell 23 percent to $12.6 billion, from $16.3 billion the
previous year.  
 Task Force  
 In Boston, a task force is completing a plan to be phased
in over the next five years that calls on colleges and other
nonprofit organizations to make annual payments equivalent to 25
percent of what they would owe if they paid property taxes. In
November, Pittsburgh’s mayor threatened, and ultimately failed,
to tax college tuition. Instead, Carnegie Mellon University, the
University of Pittsburgh and the health-care insurer Highmark,
which has some for-profit subsidiaries, agreed to contribute an
amount to be negotiated with the city.  
 Just one third of 30 top research universities made regular
voluntary payments in lieu of taxes to their cities or towns,
according to a  Chronicle of Higher Education  survey in January.  
 Tensions in Princeton have been mounting since a standing-
room-only meeting in April 2009, called “Why Princeton
University Should Pay Its Fair Share of Property Taxes.” About
a dozen people booed Kristen Appelget, the university’s director
of community and regional affairs, as she spoke about all the
college had done for its neighbors, directly or indirectly, said
 David Goldfarb , a Princeton Borough councilman.  
 ‘Scholarly Gentlemen’  
 Princeton Borough, Princeton Township and the regional
school board voted in January to urge the college to boost its
payments.  
 “Is the university some type of old-fashioned institution
full of scholarly gentlemen with modest salaries and a devotion
to education?” Wilkes, a 1983 Princeton graduate, said in a
phone interview. “Or is it a hedge fund with $16 billion
promoting an educational arm on the side?”  
 The booing that disrupted the 2009 community meeting,
sponsored by the Princeton Citizens for Tax Fairness, was a
“very unusual occurrence,”  Robert Durkee , the university’s
vice president, said in an interview in 254-year-old Nassau
Hall. Subsequent meetings with local officials were held
privately.  
 “Almost everyone who was in that room has come forward to
apologize since then,” Durkee said. “That’s not how we conduct
conversations in this community.”  
 Rich County  
 Princeton Borough and Township are part of Mercer County,
one of the 100 richest counties in the U.S. with populations
exceeding 65,000, on the basis of median household income,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau’s 2008 American Community
Survey. The median housing price in Princeton Borough was
$544,950 in 2009 -- about twice the level for New Jersey
overall, according to Onboard Informatics, a New York-based real
estate data provider. Princeton High School ranked No. 94 in the
nation in a U.S. News & World Report 2010 survey.  
 The university is already the largest taxpayer in Princeton
Borough and Princeton Township, Durkee said. It paid $8.2
million last year in property taxes on housing for staff,
faculty and some graduate students as well as for parking lots
and other commercial facilities. It contributed an additional
$1.6 million in sewer fees last year, according to the
university.  
 Free Jitney  
 The university doesn’t pay property taxes on academic,
administrative and athletic facilities. Instead, it made a $1.2
million payment in 2009 in lieu of taxes, part of a six-year
agreement that expires at the end of 2011.  
 Princeton University also pays $35,000 a year to support
the First Aid & Rescue Squad and $100,000 a year for a staff
position at the fire department, the university said. It gave
$60,000 to the borough in 2008 to launch a free jitney service
to the train station for residents, and community members can
visit the art museum and children’s library on campus at no
charge. The university helped restore the Garden Theatre, on
Nassau Street bordering the college, in 2001. That same year, it
gave a $500,000 gift to the school system for a new high school
library.  
 The university employs about 5,300 people, and each year it
helps generate more than $1 billion in economic activity,
according to a 2008 college-issued report.  
 “Our sense is, if you look at everything together, the
university makes a very substantial contribution to the
community,” Durkee said. “We believe that we have been a very
good neighbor.”  
 Mayor’s Deal  
 The university made its first voluntary contribution to
Princeton Borough in 1964 for $10,000. It also started leaving
housing properties for faculty, staff and graduate students on
the tax rolls because families might send children to the public
schools, the university said.  
 While residents have long wanted Princeton to pay more,
many held their tongues because they depend upon the university
directly or indirectly for their livelihood, Goldfarb, 56, a
lifelong Princeton resident, said.  
 That approach changed in 2005, after the late  Joseph O’Neill , who was Princeton Borough Mayor, secured the six-year
payment-in-lieu-of-taxes agreement with the university. For the
first time, the university’s contribution topped $1 million and
was formally annualized in a contract.  
 “Residents sat back and said, ‘If the university gave $1
million with apparent ease maybe we didn’t aim high enough,’”
Goldfarb said.  
 Tight Budgets  
 Princeton University and the surrounding borough and
township are all facing budget cuts. The college slashed $88
million from its $1.3 billion annual operating budget in the
fiscal year ending June 30 and $82 million from its $1.4 billion
budget for 2011. Over the two years, it eliminated 43 positions
and reduced hours on 18 jobs. It also postponed construction of
a satellite art museum and storage facilities and delayed the
renovation of a humanities and social sciences building.  
 “This is not a good time to be asking the university to
increase contributions,” Durkee said.  
 The Princeton Regional School Board cut more than $3
million from its 2010-2011 budget after it lost $3.7 million in
state aid, even as taxes rose by 4.4 percent. The Board cut 24
teaching positions and eliminated summer sports programs, said
Princeton Regional School Board Superintendent Judith Wilson.  
 Borough’s Cuts  
 Princeton Borough, an about 2-square mile (3-square
kilometer) municipality nestled within the 17-square mile
Princeton Township like the hole of a donut, has made cuts as
well. The town dismissed two police officers and left two
positions unfilled since June 2009, shrinking the force to 30.
Garbage pickup was cut back to once a week from two.  
 Princeton Township started a furlough program in its Public
Works Department, reducing union employees to a 35-hour work
week from a 40-hour work week in June through August, said
Township Mayor Bernard P. Miller. The police officers’ union
agreed to reductions in benefits and a changed pay scale for
officers hired after January 1, 2010.  
 At the same time, property taxes are set to rise for many
residents after the first reappraisal since 1996. Last year,
residents paid an average of $15,670 in taxes in Princeton
Township and $15,092 in Princeton Borough, according to
Appraisal Systems Inc., a consulting firm based in Morristown,
New Jersey. Residents will learn whether their property taxes
will rise and by how much after 2010 municipal budgets are
passed this summer, said Ernest F. Del Guercio, the firm’s chief
executive.  
 Paving Streets  
 “Taxpayers are subsidizing the university,” said Sue
Nemeth, a Princeton Township committee member. “The intangible
benefits the university offers are lovely but we can’t pave the
streets with them.”  
 Nemeth cites what she calls the generosity of other wealthy
Ivy League colleges. Harvard University, which has the largest
university endowment in the U.S., made $4.14 million in
voluntary payments in lieu of taxes in 2009 to Cambridge and
Boston, the two cities where its campuses are located.  
 Yale University, which has the second-largest endowment in
higher education in the U.S., increased its annual voluntary
payment in lieu of taxes to its hometown, New Haven,
Connecticut, to more than $7.5 million in 2009 from $5 million.  
 Princeton University’s financial contributions to the town
significantly exceed those of peer institutions when measured as
a percentage of the municipal budget, Durkee said.  
 Tim McNulty, owner of Green Design, sells ecologically
friendly products on Witherspoon Street a block from campus.
While students and visitors shop at his store, it may be time
for the university to contribute more, he said.  
 “If Harvard and Yale’s contributions are higher, why not
bring Princeton into line?” McNulty said.  
 For Related News and Information:  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Moira Herbst  in New York 
 mherbst3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Kevin Wilkes, an alumnus of Princeton University and a Princeton Borough councilman, stands for a photo in the Witherspoon Jackson neighborhood of Princeton. Photographer: Emile Wamsteker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Tim McNulty, owner of Green Design, outside his eco-goods store near the campus of Princeton University. Photographer: Emile Wamsteker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Robert Durkee, VP of Princeton University  
                       
                         
                           Denise Applewhite/Princeton University via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Robert Durkee, vice president of Princeton University, poses in this handout photo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Robert Durkee, vice president of Princeton University, poses in this handout photo. Photographer: Denise Applewhite/Princeton University via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians walk past a statue of former Princeton University president John Witherspoon near the East Pyne building on the school's campus in Princeton. Photographer: Emile Wamsteker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians walk past the FitzRandolph gate outside the Princeton University campus. Photographer: Emile Wamsteker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians walk through arches of the East Pyne building on the Princeton University campus. Photographer: Emile Wamsteker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
