-- Prized India Mangos May Curb JSW Energy's Power Project Plans in Heartland
-- Natalie Obiko Pearson
-- 2010-06-29T14:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/prized-indian-alphonso-mangos-may-curb-jsw-energy-s-biggest-power-project.html

          
          
             JSW Energy Ltd. , an affiliate of
India’s third-largest steelmaker, may have to scale back or shut
down its biggest planned power project if pollution threatens
mango crops near the plant, the Environment Ministry said.  
 JSW Energy plans to build a 1,200-megawatt, coal-fired
power plant in Ratnagiri, the heart of an agricultural zone
where India’s prized Alphonso mangos are grown.  
 “If at any point of time adverse impacts on mango orchards
are noticed or established, the plant shall be shut down,”
according to a  letter  to the company dated June 28, posted on
the ministry’s  website  and verified by ministry spokeswomen
Kalpana Palkhiwala in New Delhi by telephone.  
 The company was notified of changes to the environment
clearance awarded to the project on April 16 in response to
concerns that sulfur dioxide emissions may harm nearby mango
crops.  Sulfur dioxide  is produced when coal is burned and can
lead to acid rain, smog and haze, according to the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.  
 Sharmila Banerjee, a spokeswoman for the JSW Group, didn’t
answer phone calls or immediately respond to an e-mail
requesting comment.  
 India accounts for more than half of the world’s mango
production, according to the  Agricultural & Processed Food
Products Export Development Authority . The Asian nation’s export
of the fruit rose 33 percent to 1.7 billion rupees ($36 million)
in the year ended March 31, 2009, according to the agency.  
 JSW Energy has told the ministry it will reduce output,
change to a cleaner-burning fuel or close the proposed plant if
it exceeds prescribed sulfur-dioxide emission levels, according
to the letter.  
 The company’s current capacity is 1,000 megawatts, Managing
Director  Sajjan Jindal  said Nov. 17. The utility plans to add at
least 2,800 megawatts, of which the Ratnagiri plant is the
biggest single project, according to its  website .  
 JSW Energy is an affiliate of JSW Steel Ltd. based in
Mumbai.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        