-- Record Lula Bank Loans Overwhelm Push to Weaken Real as Currency Rebounds
-- Andre Soliani
-- 2010-06-29T21:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/record-lula-bank-loans-overwhelm-push-to-weaken-real-as-currency-rebounds.html

          
          
             A five-week rally in the Brazilian
real is limiting President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva’s  efforts
to make the country’s exports more competitive in international
markets. Lula himself is partly to blame, according to Harvard
University Professor  Ricardo Hausmann .  
 Record lending by the state development bank, known as
 BNDES , is contributing to the fastest economic growth in 15
years, prompting the central bank to raise the benchmark
overnight rate 1.5 percentage points this year to 10.25 percent,
Hausmann said. The higher rates are luring capital to Brazil’s
fixed-income assets and fueling gains in the real that Lula, 64,
sought to curb by implementing a 2 percent tax on foreigners’
investments in stocks and bonds in October.  
 “BNDES should be ordered to slow credit growth,”
Hausmann, the director of  Harvard’s Center for International
Development  in Cambridge, Massachusetts, said in a June 23
telephone interview. “While the central bank is trying to
responsibly control inflation, BNDES is expanding lending. That
means the central bank will have to raise rates that much
more.”  
 The real is the second-biggest gainer in emerging markets
since May 20, climbing 3.9 percent to 1.8134 per dollar. Fitch
Ratings said yesterday that the growth in BNDES lending is also
slowing Brazil’s reduction of debt as a percent of gross
domestic product, creating a concern as it considers raising the
government’s rating from BBB-, the lowest investment-grade
ranking.  
 Fitch shifted the rating outlook to positive from stable,
citing the country’s “growth dynamics” and “resilience”
during last year’s global recession.  
 ‘Additional Burden’  
 “These are the positives that we noted, however we do
believe that Brazil needs to exercise some fiscal restraint,”
 Shelly Shetty , a Fitch analyst in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “BNDES activities are placing additional burden on
monetary policy to curb excessive domestic demand.”  
 BNDES, the country’s fourth-largest bank by assets, said in
a June 1 statement that it bolstered  lending  34 percent in the
first four months of the year to 35.7 billion reais. Rio de
Janeiro-based BNDES lent a record $72 billion last year, bank
President  Luciano Coutinho  said in a March 4 interview in
London.  
 A spokesman at BNDES didn’t return a telephone call seeking
comment yesterday. A Finance Ministry spokeswoman declined to
comment.  
 95% Rally  
 Deputy Treasury Secretary  Paulo Valle  said in a June 21
interview in New York that state-sponsored lending will
“stabilize” as private banks “increase market share” amid
the economic expansion.  Outstanding bank loans  increased 2.1
percent, the fastest pace in 10 months, to 1.5 trillion reais in
May, according to the central bank.  
 The real’s rally snapped a three-week, 7.6 percent slide
through May 20 that was sparked in part by concern Europe’s debt
crisis would erode demand for Brazilian commodity exports. The
real is down 3.8 percent this year after posting a 33 percent
gain in 2009 that made it the world’s best-performing major
currency. Its 95 percent advance since Lula took office in 2003
is the biggest among all currencies tracked by Bloomberg except
for the Afghanistan afghani.  
 Lula imposed the 2 percent tax on foreigners in October
after daily central bank dollar purchases in the foreign-
exchange market failed to reverse the real’s surge. The central
bank’s foreign reserves have climbed to a record $254 billion
from $207 billion a year ago. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
warned investors as recently as April 26 that the government may
take “further measures” to rein in the currency and bolster
non-commodity exports.  
 Above-Target Inflation  
 Brazilian exports climbed to $72 billion in the first five
months of the year from $55 billion in the year-earlier period
while imports jumped to $66 billion from $46 billion, according
to the  Trade Ministry . It exported $10.6 billion of goods to
China, making the Asian nation its biggest overseas market, and
$7.3 billion to the U.S.  
 The real will slip to 1.8 by year-end before gaining to
1.73 by mid-2011, according to a Bloomberg survey of 20
economists. Traders expect the central bank will raise the
benchmark overnight rate to 12 percent by December to cool the
economy and rein in an  inflation  rate that has topped the
government’s 4.5 percent annual target for the past five months,
future contracts show.  
 Latin America’s largest  economy  will expand 7.1 percent
this year, the fastest pace since 1994, according to a central
bank survey of about 100 financial institutions released
yesterday.  
 Overheating Economy  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 248 by 5:18 p.m. New York time, according
to JPMorgan.  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose 11 basis points
today to 139, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Brazil’s  debt-to-GDP  ratio of about 60 percent is almost
double the 35 percent median for countries rated BBB, Fitch
said. Mantega said at the G-20 summit in Toronto on June 26 that
Brazil is seeking to reduce its debt-to-GDP ratio to 30 percent.  
 Brazil has “a policy that is excessively expansionary and
is causing the economy to overheat,” said Hausmann, a former
Venezuelan planning minister who has been at Harvard since 2000.
“I would like to see President Lula cool off the economy using
a contraction of lending,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Brazil President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva speaks during a conference in Sao Paulo. Photographer: Paulo Fridman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
