-- U.S. Governors Head for Washington to Press for Additional Medicaid Funds
-- Dunstan McNichol
-- 2010-06-29T19:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/rendell-u-s-governors-head-for-washington-to-press-for-medicaid-funding.html

          
          
             Governors of states including  New
York ,  Michigan  and Pennsylvania will visit Washington to plead
with Congress for additional subsidies to help pay for providing
health care to the poor.  
 The event tomorrow, set up by Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell , follows the Senate’s failure last week to move a bill
forward that included $16 billion in extra funds for Medicaid,
the state-run health-care program. The measure, which also was
set to extend some jobless benefits, was blocked by Republicans
opposed to its cost.  
 The federal government increased Medicaid subsidies through
this year as part of last year’s economic-stimulus package. More
than 30 states had counted on the six-month extension contained
in the stalled bill. A reversion to the previous subsidy rate on
Jan. 1 would deal a blow to cash-strapped states including
California, which expected $1.7 billion from the measure.  
 “The federal government is not supporting the states at
the level they supported the financial institutions,” New York
Governor  David Paterson  said in an interview on WOR radio in
Manhattan today. New York had expected almost $1.1 billion.  
 The stimulus measures helped states weather the longest
recession since the Great Depression, which battered their tax
collections and forced service cutbacks. In total, states have
projected budget deficits of $127 billion through 2012,
according to the  National Governors Association . The added
Medicaid funds were expected to narrow those gaps by freeing
cash to be used for other programs.  
 Stimulus Helped  
 “Had it not been for the federal stimulus funds, state
fiscal conditions would have been much worse,” said  Arturo Perez , who follows state budgets for the  National Conference of
State Legislatures . Because the bill stalled, more than 1
million people lost unemployment benefits last week.  
 In California, among the recession’s most-affected states,
Republican Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger ’s  budget  counts on the
extra Medicaid money to help close a $19 billion deficit through
June 2011.  
 Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat whose
position lets him control the chamber’s business, said last week
that the bill may be considered again should some support emerge
from the minority party.  
 “We can’t pass it unless we get some Republicans,” Reid
told reporters last week. “It’s up to them.”  
 Opposition to Cost  
 Republicans objected to the cost of the bill, not the
assistance itself, said  Don Stewart , a spokesman for Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican. The
stalled measure was projected to add $33 billion to the federal
budget deficit. Stewart suggested the governors appeal to
Democrats, “who insist on adding the bill to the national
 debt .”  
 Pennsylvania’s Rendell, a Democrat, said 15 governors will
participate in the event tomorrow, either in person or by
videoconference. “The battle to convince the Congress is still
being waged,” he said at a budget briefing in Harrisburg, the
state capital.  
 Gary Tuma, a spokesman for Rendell, said the full list of
governors attending is still being worked out, as well as their
schedule while in Washington.  
 California’s Schwarzenegger is scheduled to participate
tomorrow by satellite from Sacramento, the state capital.  
 Kansas Governor  Mark Parkinson , a Democrat, also plans to
attend, said spokeswoman Amy Jordan. So does fellow Democrat
 Christine Gregoire , the governor of Washington.  
 Gregoire anticipated receiving $480 million in additional
Medicaid money that won’t arrive if the bill isn’t passed.  
 “That would mean a significant number of layoffs as well
as cuts to social-services programs,” said Karina Shagren, a
spokeswoman. “It would be devastating to this state.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        