-- Democrats May Cut $19 Billion Bank Fee From Bill
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-06-29T22:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/republican-senator-brown-to-oppose-finance-bill-with-19-billion-bank-fee.html

          
          
             U.S. lawmakers reconvened the House-
Senate conference on the financial-overhaul bill to eliminate a
$19 billion bank fee that drew objections from Republicans.  
 Democrats inserted the fee near the end of last week’s
marathon 20-hour negotiating session, which ended when the
conference committee approved legislation and sent it to the
House and Senate for final votes. The fee would assess large
banks and hedge funds to help cover the cost of imposing the
biggest rewrite of Wall Street rules since the 1930s.  
 Instead, the Democrats’ new plan would cover the shortfall
in the bill by closing the Troubled Asset Relief Program and
increasing the size of the fund that the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. maintains to repay customer deposits when a bank
fails, Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd  said.  
 Changing the bank fee could end an impasse that threatened
to delay the final Senate vote after the death of Senator  Robert Byrd , a West Virginia Democrat. Byrd’s absence left Democrats in
need of all four Republicans who previously backed the measure.
One of those Republicans, Senator  Scott Brown  of Massachusetts,
withdrew his support earlier today, citing the fee.  
 “Because there was a reaction to it, we tried to come up
with an alternative idea that would reduce those concerns and
allow for us to meet the obligations of this bill,” Dodd, a
Connecticut Democrat, said today at the start of the conference
meeting.  
 In a letter today to Dodd and House Financial Services
Committee Chairman  Barney Frank , Brown said he could not accept
the bank fees. “If the final version of this bill contains
these higher taxes, I will not support it,” he wrote.  
 July 4 Goal  
 Banks with more than $50 billion in assets and hedge funds
with more than $10 billion in assets would have been responsible
for paying the fee.  
 “I’m surprised what they are objecting to is making
Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup pay for the cost
of the regulation,” Frank said about Republican concerns.
“Instead, the pay-for is going to be rescinding the unused TARP
money, which, frankly, would have been rescinded at some point
anyway.”  
 Frank, who led the negotiations, said the full House will
likely vote on the final bill tomorrow.  
 Under the proposed fix being circulated today, the
“complete and immediate termination” of TARP would “get you
more than about 90 percent of the way there” or about $11
billion, Dodd said.  
 FDIC Insurance  
 Lawmakers also would raise the level of funds the FDIC is
required by law to hold in reserves to insure bank customer
deposits. The FDIC would increase its so-called reserve ratio
from 1.15 percent to 1.35 percent, or $1.35 for every $100 in
deposits. The fund is supported through fees on the banking
industry.  
 The change would shift the burden to the largest U.S. banks
since the earlier plan would have also assessed hedge funds.
Dodd said small banks would be exempt from having to pay for the
increase.  
 Final approval from the House of Representatives and the
Senate is needed to get the bill to President  Barack Obama ’s
desk for his signature. While Democrats said they had hoped to
move the bill before July 4, opposition to the fee and Byrd’s
death could leave Senate Democrats short of the 60 votes they
need.  
 House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer , a Maryland Democrat,
said today the House will debate and vote on the bill later this
week.  
 Obama Confident  
 Dodd is “working very hard to make sure he has the
requisite number of votes” in the Senate, Hoyer said.  
 Obama expressed confidence that the bill would get through
Congress.  
 Completion of the financial regulatory reform bill will
“provide some certainty to the markets,” Obama said this
morning after meeting with his economic advisers and Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  at the White House. “I think
there’s going to be enough interest in moving reform forward
that we’re going to get this done.”  
 Without Brown’s support, Senate Democrats would need to
secure votes from either Senator  Maria Cantwell , a Washington
Democrat who has opposed the bill, or Byrd’s replacement. They
also would have to retain support from Republican Senators
Olympia Snowe,  Susan Collins  and  Charles Grassley , who backed a
previous version of the bill.  
 “The bill is not perfect, but I believe if you take out
the new bank tax that on balance it would improve our financial
system, and I would support it,” Collins said today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:  Phil Mattingly  in
Washington at   pmattingly@bloomberg.net  and
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Senator Scott Brown, a Massachusetts Republican who previously backed the regulatory-overhaul bill, withdrew his support, citing a $19 billion fee on banks and hedge funds negotiators inserted into the measure last week. Bloomberg's Peter Cook reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
