-- Rice Crop in Thailand to be Smallest in Eight Years on Drought, FAO Says
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-06-29T05:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/rice-crop-in-thailand-to-be-smallest-in-eight-years-on-drought-fao-says.html

          
          
             Rice production in Thailand, the
largest exporter of the grain, may drop to the lowest in eight
years as drought and the spread of plant hoppers damage crops,
according to  the Food and Agriculture Organization.   
 The nation’s main rice crop, which accounts for about 75
percent of total output, may be 22 million metric tons in the
year starting October, the smallest since 2002, said  Concepcion Calpe , a senior economist at the United Nations’ agency.  
 “We’re still maintaining our relatively downbeat forecast
for rice production,” she said in a phone interview from Rome.  
 Falling supplies may drive the price of  Thai 100 percent
grade-B white rice,  the benchmark for Asia, to $500 a ton by the
end of the year, Banjong Tungjitwattanakun, vice president of
the  Thai Rice Mills Association  said last week. The price has
risen from a two-year low of $469 on June 9 as a strengthening
local currency makes exports expensive.  
 Rough-rice futures have tumbled 32 percent this year on the
Chicago Board of Trade. September-delivery futures declined 1.2
percent to $10.09 per 100 pounds at 12 p.m. Singapore time.  
 The Thai government last week advised farmers to postpone
planting to the end of July because of delayed rains and warned
of possible crop damage after the  weather office  said there may
be heavy rains and flooding in September and October.  
 This is the second time this year the Thai authority has
asked farmers to delay planting as the El Nino weather pattern
reduced rainfall. The main rice crop is usually planted in May
and harvesting begins in October.  
 Plant Hoppers  
 “Drought is undoubtedly a matter of concern in many
countries now,” FAO’s Calpe said. Thailand must also contend
with the spread of the brown plant hoppers, she said.  
 Still, total rice output, including that from the nation’s
second crop, may be 30 million tons in 2010-11 season, compared
with 29.8 million tons estimated in the current year, said Calpe.  
 “We do not forecast a dramatic drop in production because
it’s possible to see a recovery in the second crop,” she said.
“More than one crop is produced every season. The sector has
much scope for making up an earlier shortfall by planting more
subsequently.”  
 The forecast doesn’t take into account possible damage from
heavy rainfall, Calpe said.  
 “We can’t predict about the worst circumstance unless we
have evidence,” she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        