-- RIM Falls to Lowest Level in Year as IPhone Heads to Verizon
-- Arik Hesseldahl
-- 2010-06-29T23:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/rim-falls-to-lowest-level-in-year-as-iphone-heads-to-verizon.html

          
          
             Research In Motion Ltd. , maker of
the BlackBerry smartphone, fell to its lowest level in more than
a year following reports that Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S.
wireless carrier, will start selling Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  
 RIM dropped $3.22, or 6.1 percent, to $49.75 after
Bloomberg News reported that Verizon Wireless would start
selling the iPhone to its customers in January, citing two
people familiar with the plans. AT&T Inc., the country’s second-
largest wireless carrier, has been the exclusive provider of the
iPhone in the U.S.  
 Verizon Wireless has been marketing RIM’s BlackBerry, as
well as phones from Motorola Inc. and HTC Corp. that use Google
Inc.’s Android software. Apple could sell between 8 million and
9 million iPhones through Verizon each year, cutting into
BlackBerry sales, said  Charles Wolf , an analyst with Needham &
Co. in New York who covers both RIM and Apple.  
 “It looks to me that about 10 percent of RIM’s sales are
at risk from a Verizon iPhone,” he said.  
 Wolf estimates that Verizon accounts for about 50 percent
of BlackBerry sales in the U.S. In the past year, Waterloo,
Ontario-based RIM has sought to diversify its sales in countries
outside the U.S. and through carriers other than Verizon. The
U.S. now accounts for 45 percent of BlackBerry shipments, down
from 70 percent a year ago, Wolf said.  
 “If the iPhone takes share equally from BlackBerry phones
and Android phones, that works out to about a million units
worth of impact to RIM sales,” he said. “It’s not an
inconsequential hit, but it would have been worse a year ago.”  
 Tenille Kennedy, a spokeswoman for RIM, didn’t immediately
return e-mail and voice-mail messages seeking comment after
regular business hours.  
 Advertising Campaign  
 RIM is likely to use the Verizon development as a chance to
boost its business at AT&T, said  Tavis McCourt , an analyst with
Morgan Keegan & Co. in Nashville, Tennessee. During RIM’s June
24 earnings conference call, Co-Chief Executive Officer  James Balsillie  said there will be significant advertising campaigns
coming later this year in the U.S.  
 “He called it something like the biggest campaign ever,”
McCourt said. “The only carrier who could do a campaign that
big is AT&T.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arik Hesseldahl  in New York at 
 ahesseldahl@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        