-- Rising Bad Loans in China Won't Cause `System-Wide Distress,' Moody's Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-29T07:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/rising-bad-loans-in-china-won-t-cause-system-wide-distress-moody-s-says.html

          
          
             Chinese banks will face a rise in
 bad loans  that is unlikely to be big enough to cause “system-
wide distress,” according to Moody’s Investors Service.  
 Real estate industry and local-government financing
vehicles will be sources of bad loans, Yvonne Zhang, a China
banking analyst at Moody’s at a conference in Shanghai. Economic
growth and government policy are key to loan quality at China’s
banks, she said.  
 Chinese policy makers are grappling with the risks posed by
last year’s $1.4 trillion  credit boom  that fueled the nation’s
comeback from the global recession. Fitch Ratings said last week
lenders’ deterioration of asset quality could limit the nation’s
ability to respond to another global slump with more stimulus
measures.  
 The country’s banking regulator aims to cap new loans at
7.5 trillion yuan this year, down 22 percent from 2009, and has
told lenders to report their risk exposure to local-government
financing vehicles by the end of the month to prevent a pileup
of  bad loans .  
 The China Banking Regulatory Commission estimates that
outstanding loans to funding vehicles set up by local
governments rose 70 percent to 7.38 trillion yuan at the end of
2009 from a year earlier. In the first quarter of this year,
about 40 percent of new loans went to such entities, according
to the CBRC. The vehicles are used because local governments
can’t borrow directly.  
 Migration of such loan losses to the central government’s
balance sheet will be “moderate,” according to  Tom Byrne , a
senior vice president at Moody’s sovereign risk unit. The losses
may come in 2012 or 2013, he said.  
 China’s annual growth will slow to 9.3 percent next year
from 10.1 percent this year, according to the median forecasts
in Bloomberg News surveys of economists.  
 -- Luo Jun . Editors:  James Gunsalus ,  Fergus Maguire   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        