-- Rubber Retreats From One-Month High as Crude Oil's Decline Reduces Appeal
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-06-29T08:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/rubber-retreats-from-one-month-high-as-crude-oil-s-decline-reduces-appeal.html

          
          
             Rubber retreated from a one-month
high as crude oil declined amid concern that slower economic
growth may curb demand, cutting the appeal of the commodity as
an alternative to synthetic products.  
 Rubber for December delivery lost 3.3 percent to settle at
274.4 yen ($3,094 a metric ton) on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange,
the lowest level in a week. The price climbed yesterday to the
highest level since May 28, as rainfall disrupted output in
Thailand, the biggest producer and exporter.  
 Crude oil declined 2.2 percent at 3:51 p.m. in Singapore on
skepticism that production in the Gulf of Mexico will be
disrupted by a tropical storm in the region. U.S. forecasters
projected that Tropical Storm Alex will move across the southern
Gulf and make landfall as a hurricane July 1 in Mexico.  
 “A drop in oil was the largest drag on the price of
rubber,”  Shuji Sugata , research manager at Mitsubishi Corp.
Futures Ltd. in Tokyo, said today by phone. “An unclear outlook
for global economies also sapped investor appetite for
industrial commodities.”  
 “A stronger Japanese yen and worries over cooling global
economic expansion have had a negative psychological effect on
the rubber market,” said Varut Rungkhum, analyst at Bangkok-
based commodity broker Agro Wealth Ltd.  
 The yen rose to a seven-week high against the dollar as
signs the global economic recovery is slowing boosted demand for
Japan’s currency as a refuge. Japan’s currency rose to 88.63
against the dollar, compared with 89.37 yen yesterday.  
 China Stockpiles  
 Stockpiles in China declined to the lowest level in seven
years, sparking optimism that the world’s biggest buyer may soon
replenish inventories, data showed. Natural rubber  stockpiles 
monitored by the Shanghai Futures Exchange dropped 1,670 tons to
14,771 tons, the bourse said on June 25. It was the lowest level
since January 2003, according to Bloomberg data.  
 China, the largest auto market, is the biggest consumer of
natural rubber. The nation may increase gross imports of the raw
material to 1.68 million tons this year, from 1.59 million in
2009, according to a May report from the Association of Natural
Rubber Producing Countries.  
 November-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
lost 2.4 percent to settle at 21,735 yuan ($3,198) a ton.  
 Cash prices in Thailand declined as Chinese buyers have
shifted to purchasing cheaper rubber from Indonesia, the  Rubber
Institute of Thailand  said on its website today. The Thai
benchmark price dropped 0.6 percent today to 118.10 baht ($3.67)
a kilogram, it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        