-- Russia, U.S. Have Most Protectionist Trade Measures in Group of 20 Nations
-- Sophie Leung
-- 2010-06-29T11:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/russia-u-s-most-protectionist-among-g-20-members-hong-kong-group-says.html

          
          
             Russia and the U.S. have the most
protectionist trade measures among the Group of 20 leading
industrialized countries, according  annual rankings  released
today in Hong Kong by the  International Chamber of Commerce .  
 India and Argentina came third and fourth, while China was
ranked sixth, just after Brazil, the Paris-based ICC said in the
report, compiled by the Washington-based Peterson Institute for
International Economics. Saudi Arabia was the nation with the
fewest measures aimed at protecting its own trade.  
 Group of 20 leaders pledged to resist protectionism when
they met in Canada on June 27 and renewed their commitment not
to raise barriers or impose new barriers to investment and trade.
Still, countries are taking steps to shield industries from
international competition as job losses rise in the world’s
biggest economies and as the European sovereign-debt crisis
damps growth, according to the chamber report.  
 “The conclusions of this report should serve as stark
reminders of the dangers of protectionism,”  Victor Fung , the
chamber’s chairman, and chairman of  Li & Fung Ltd. , a Hong Kong-
listed supplier to Wal-Mart Stores Inc., said in today’s release.
“During a time of economic recovery such as this, the world
needs fewer barriers to trade, not more.”  
 Rising wages in China will prompt companies to boost export
prices over time, easing the trade imbalance with the U.S., Fung
said.  
 ”From a protectionism standpoint, it might ease off some
of the pressure,” Fung said.  
 Protectionist trade measures may not save jobs because
other countries may retaliate, the chamber, which advocates free
trade, said in the report.  
 The ICC analysis was based on data from Global Trade Alert,
a service provided by the Centre for Economic Policy Research, a
London-based research group that aims to deter discriminatory
measures by governments against trading partners.  
 The rankings were compiled based on the number of
discriminatory measures implemented, “in the pipeline,” or
being considered, according to the report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        