-- Russian Central Bank Warns of Ruble Volatility, Says Strengthening `Over'
-- Maria Levitov
-- 2010-06-29T11:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/russian-central-bank-warns-of-ruble-volatility-says-strengthening-over-.html

          
          
             The ruble is heading for a period of
exchange-rate volatility and the recent period of “rapid
strengthening” is over, Bank Rossii First Deputy Chairman
 Alexei Ulyukayev  said.  
 The disparity in  interest rates  between emerging and
developed economies boosts “carry trades” and complicates
efforts to battle “hot money inflows,” Ulyukayev said at a
Renaissance Capital conference in Moscow today. He agreed with
Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  that the ruble has an even chance
of weakening or strengthening.  
 The currency headed for the weakest level against the
dollar in two weeks today as oil dropped from a seven-week
highand investors sold emerging-market assets on concern
tightening steps in China will slow the global recovery.
Investors have increased bets on further weakening, with non-
deliverable forwards showing the currency at 31.4333 per dollar
in three months compared with 31.2805 on June 28. The contracts
are a guide to expectations of currency movements.  
 The ruble slid 0.9 percent to 31.2700 per dollar at 3:05
p.m. in Moscow, poised for a second consecutive month of
declines and trimming four straight months of gains this year,
Bloomberg data show. Against the euro, it traded up 0.2 percent
at 38.1300, headed for its first monthly decline since November.  
 No Ruble Target  
 Kudrin said the ruble is “balanced,” making any
prediction about which way it will go a coin toss.  
 “There’s a 50-50 chance the ruble will rise or fall,” he
said at the same conference. The exchange rate won’t
“significantly encourage” speculative investments, he said.  
 The International Monetary Fund said yesterday Russia may
need to encourage a more flexible ruble rate to curb inflation
and the government should begin withdrawing its “huge” fiscal
stimulus.  
 ‘Focus Firmly’  
 “Monetary policy should focus firmly on inflation control
in the context of a more flexible exchange rate,” the IMF said
in a statement after discussions with officials in Moscow.  
 The central bank has “sharply reduced” the extent to
which it steers the ruble to lessen the effects of currency
moves on producers, Bank Rossii Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  has
said.  
 While the bank will continue to intervene on currency
markets to “smooth out the volatility” of the ruble, “we will
not set a target for the ruble’s nominal or real exchange
rate,” Ulyukayev said today.  
 The narrow floating corridor for the ruble is currently
33.40 to 36.40 against the central bank’s  basket of currencies 
and hasn’t changed since April, Ulyukayev said.  
 The central banker said in an interview on June 25 that
emerging markets will face currency appreciation pressures and
greater volatility of capital flows as central banks in the U.S.
and European Union push interest rate increases further into
2011.  
 ‘Carries Problems’  
 “Continued easing of monetary policies carries problems
for emerging markets, including Russia,” Ulyukayev said.  
 The central bank may reach a “modified free float” of the
ruble by 2012, Ulyukayev said.  
 The bank has reduced interest rates 14 times in as many
months to discourage carry trades, in which investors exploit
the difference in relative interest rates between countries.  
 Ulyukyaev also said today the central bank has not changed
the structure of its international reserves.  
 “The euro is a reserve currency and is working,” he said.
“We haven’t sold our reserve nomination in euros so the
structure is the same. It’s still in euros.”  
 The bank and the government can start withdrawing emergency
stimulus measures from the economy because the banking system
has enough liquidity and reserves, Ulyukayev said.  
 Commercial banks have 2 trillion rubles ($64 billion) of
liquid assets, half of which is in central bank bonds, he said.
Bank Rossii may end its unsecured lending program this year, he
said.  
 The annual inflation rate, already at a historic low, will
drop below 6 percent by the end of the year as the trends are
“positive,” Ulyukayev said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ulyukayev warns of Ruble volatility  
                       
                         
                           Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Bank Rossii First Deputy Chairman Alexei Ulyukayev. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Bank Rossii First Deputy Chairman Alexei Ulyukayev. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
