-- RWE Sees Proposed EU Derivatives Rules Adding Billions of Euros in Costs
-- Ewa Krukowska
-- 2010-06-29T14:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/rwe-sees-proposed-eu-derivatives-rules-adding-billions-of-euros-in-costs.html

          
          
             RWE AG , Germany’s second-largest
utility, said European Union plans for tighter regulation of the
over-the-counter derivatives market would boost costs for energy
buyers and sellers by “tens of billions” of euros.  
 While  RWE  endorses the EU’s goal for more transparency in
electricity, gas and carbon-dioxide trading and supports its
initiative to address the risk of market manipulation, it sees
mandatory central clearing of energy transactions hurting the
industry, RWE Supply and Trading Chief Executive Officer  Stefan Judisch  said today in Brussels.  
 The  European Commission , the EU’s regulator, plans to have
more products in the $605 trillion over-the-counter derivatives
market to be traded via third-party clearinghouses to minimize
risking the financial system after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  
 “We’re all for market transparency, we have nothing
against clearing, but don’t force people under the motto ‘one
size fits all,’” Judisch told reporters today. “There was no
systemic risk in the commodity market and there isn’t one. We
have a check of real demand and supply in the spot market,
particularly in the electricity market, every single day.”  
 Clearinghouses operate as central counterparties for all
buy and sell orders executed by members, reducing the risk that
a trader defaults on a deal. Introducing central clearing for
energy transactions would mean additional costs linked to
registration, licensing and clearing fees, as well as cash or
security deposits, Judisch said in Brussels.  
 Cash Collateral  
 “It would only indirectly affect us, because we already
clear large parts of our business,” he said. “It would really
hit the smaller players in the market -- the municipalities,
small industrials and so on -- because they would need the cash
collateral.”  
 The commission is until July 10 seeking views on its  plan 
as part of public consultations and has said will make formal
proposals in September. Legislation must be approved by
governments and lawmakers in the European Parliament before it
can enter into force, a process that can take more than a year.  
 Michel Barnier , the EU Financial Services Commissioner, has
said he would seek support from the parliament for his plan to
increase regulation on hedge funds, derivatives and private
equity. No financial products should escape “effective
oversight,” he said earlier this month.  
 “No energy market participant or customer has ever gone
without electricity or gas due to crises faced by individual
trading companies or financial institutions,” Judisch said.  
 He said there is a “fundamental difference between
financial products and the commodity derivatives traded on
energy markets: Financial products do not represent tangible
assets such as raw materials, power plants or distribution
networks.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at   
          
          


  


        