-- Saints Coach Payton Says Ornstein's `Special Ops' Were Key to Super Bowl
-- Barry Rothbard
-- 2010-06-29T20:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/saints-coach-payton-says-ornstein-s-special-ops-were-key-to-super-bowl.html

          
          
             New Orleans Saints Coach  Sean Payton 
said his National Football League team had a special operative
who helped win the Super Bowl: sports agent  Mike Ornstein .  
 Payton said Ornstein helped arrange logistics such as game
tickets and travel for players’ in-laws, minimizing crises. He
also dreamed up irritations for the Saints’ opponent, the
Indianapolis Colts, including strategically placing the Saints’
 fleur-de-lis  symbol around the Miami area.  
 “There is a little bit of a propaganda battle to how we
travel -- the hotels we’re staying in, what the wives are
getting, the flowers, the cameras, the billboards -- and that’s
one thing we felt like we needed to win prior to even playing
the game,” Payton said in an interview today. “By the end of
the week, the scene was the fleur-de-lis everywhere.”  
 Payton said in his new book  “Home Team: Coaching the
Saints and New Orleans Back to Life,”  that he got off to a
rocky start with Ornstein, who called the team in 2006 to
discourage Payton from drafting running back  Reggie Bush . That
conversation ended when the newly hired coach hung up on
Ornstein with an expletive.  
 The two men became friends and by the time the Saints
reached the Super Bowl, Payton had Ornstein “running Miami
special ops,” as the coach and co-author  Ellis Henican  writes
in the book.  
 “The psych-out began with a huge Saints billboard just
outside the airport, a solid black background with a giant gold
fleur-de-lis. The unwritten message: ‘Miami is Saints
Country.’”  
 Corner by Corner  
 Ornstein said there were about 20  billboards , placed along
the routes most likely to be traveled by the Colts’ buses after
consultation with local police. He was hoping they’d annoy Colts
quarterback  Peyton Manning , who’d just won a record fourth Most
Valuable Player award.  
 “I brought my billboard guy with me and I said, “I want
that sign, that corner, that corner, that corner,” Ornstein
said. “As a result, wherever Peyton was, he saw the fleur-de-
lis. By Wednesday, he’s starting to get a little sick of us.”  
 Pamela Humphrey, a spokeswoman for the Colts, declined to
comment on Payton and Ornstein’s statements.  Brian McCarthy , an
NFL spokesman, didn’t immediately return an e-mail and a phone
call seeking comment.  
 Ornstein said this psychological warfare is a technique
he’s perfected en route to helping teams including the Baltimore
Ravens win six Super Bowl titles. It includes making sure the
Saints players and their families received extravagant gifts
such as cell phones and cameras during the week leading up to
the game, and had an opportunity to show them to the Colts.  
 Bathrobes  
 Saints players even got logoed bathrobes with their names
on the back and their numbers on the sleeve.  
 “Here’s our guys with their camcorders that have ‘New
Orleans Saints Super Bowl 44” on them, all filming the Colts
guys,” he said in an interview. “Well the Colts had just
checked into their hotel and they had a Super Bowl hat and a
Super Bowl t-shirt and it just didn’t cut it.”  
 Orenstein’s final coup came during the game itself, when he
convinced an acquaintance with access to the stadium public
address system to play a  Saints favorite , “Halftime (Stand up
and Get Crunk)” by the Ying Yang Twins, when the team took a
fourth-quarter lead.  
 “The Crunk song was two Super Bowl tickets to the guy who
does the songs,” Ornstein said.  
 Payton writes that he knew from experience that Ornstein’s
campaign could be effective. When Payton reached the Super Bowl
as an assistant with the New York Giants, players kept grumbling
that their opponents, the Baltimore Ravens, were getting treated
better than them.  
 Familiar Work  
 At one point last season, Payton writes, he told Ornstein
that if the Saints reached the title game, he had to find the
guy who handled the Ravens’ Super Bowl.  
 “I was the guy,” Ornstein said.  
 Payton said he doesn’t know all the details of what
Ornstein did that week, just that every detail was designed to
bolster the players’ confidence and maybe rattle the Colts just
a little bit.  
 “The Super Bowl is full of distractions,” Payton said.
“One of the things we tried to do was create an environment
where not only the players, but the wives, the girlfriends, all
felt it was done in a first-class manner.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
 Barry Rothbard  in New York at 
 brothbard@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        