-- Sarah McLachlan Restarts Lilith Fair to Fund Yunus, Eco-Firms
-- Patrick Cole
-- 2010-06-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/sarah-mclachlan-restarts-lilith-fair-to-fund-yunus-eco-firms.html

          
          
             The traveling music show of top
women artists known as  Lilith Fair  returns this month after an
11-year hiatus as a festival with new causes.  
 Started by Canadian singer  Sarah McLachlan , the festival
will donate $1 from each ticket sold to three socially conscious
businesses chosen from a list of nearly 200.  
 The firms are  Alter Eco  Fair Trade a San Francisco-based
venture that helps distribute farm products to markets
worldwide;  Better World Books , a for-profit company that
collects and sells books to fund literacy programs around the
world; and  To-Go Ware , a business based in Berkeley, California
that promotes innovative food containers to reduce the use of
disposable plastic utensils and packaging.  
 The festival also will encourage ticket buyers to donate
funds to  Grameen America , a New York-based unit of Grameen
Trust. The latter is affiliated with  Grameen Bank , the
microfinance pioneer founded by  Muhammad Yunus , who was awarded
the 2006 Nobel Peace Prize.  
 “The companies we’ve chosen have good people running them
with a strong social mandate,” McLachlan, 42, said in a phone
interview. “For us, the idea of giving back to the communities
we go into is important.”  
 McLachlan, who released her first studio album in seven
years, “ Laws of Illusion ” (Arista), earlier this month, said
her managers turned to the  i4c Campaign  founded by Boulder,
Colorado-based venture capitalist  Casey Verbeck  to help choose
the grant recipients. A music-industry veteran, Verbeck was
looking for a new way to attract capital to promising
businesses. The three companies chosen will be part of a
village-like exhibition outside concert venues to give an
overview of their work and products.  
 “The village is a place to come and learn about the
stories of these companies and hopefully be inspired by them,”
Verbeck, 36, said in a phone interview.  
 Ticket Sales  
 How much will be given to the firms could be affected by
the festival’s ticket sales. The opener at McMahon Stadium in
Calgary on Sunday saw ticket sales surge to about 9,000.
Concerts in Nashville and Phoenix have been canceled. Featured
artists include McLachlan,  Carly Simon , neo-soul singer  Erykah
Badu , Emmylou Harris and singer-guitarist  Corinne Bailey Rae .  
 “Ticket sales have really picked up strong in the past 10
days,” Lilith Fair co-founder Terry McBride said in an e-mail.  
 Born in Halifax, Nova Scotia, McLachlan started Lilith Fair
to protest radio stations that refused to play recordings by two
or more women in a row. The policy reflected an old-school
attitude that women weren’t sufficiently popular to rate such
exposure and it also operated in concert bookings.  
 Jewish Folklore  
 In 1997, she booked a tour with vocalist  Paula Cole  and
named it after a mythical character from Jewish folklore known
as  Adam’s first wife .  
 In its first three years, Lilith raised more than $10
million for women’s charities. In 1997, the fair grossed $16
million. Its 104 shows between 1997 to 1999 grossed $52.9
million and attracted 1.6 million people, according to  Billboard 
magazine.  
 The burdens of organizing the festival cut into the time
she needed to record her own material and tour, McLachlan said,
so she folded it after its third year.  
 “It was a huge undertaking, and my two partners and my
agent had very intensive full-time jobs already,” McLachlan
said. “I was quite happy to put it to bed and make records. It
was losing its luster.”  
 Bringing her own long absence from recording to an end this
year helped spur the decision to bring back the festival.  
 “I really wanted to put out a record and tour in the
summer, and Lilith was a great way to come out with a bang,”
McLachlan said.  
 The Lilith Fair travels to Vancouver on Thursday; San
Francisco (July 5); Las Vegas (July 9); Los Angeles (July 10);
and Salt Lake City (July 12). For full lineup and tour schedule
see  http://www.lilithfair.com .  
 To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Sarah McLachlan  
                       
                         
                           Kharen Hill/Sacks & Co. via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Vocalist and Lilith Fair founder Sarah McLachlan. After folding the music showcase featuring women artists in 1999, McLachlan re-launched it this week and will use $1 from each ticket sold to help fund socially-conscious business ventures. Lilith Fair is also encouraging its ticket buyers to text donations to Muhammad Yunus' Grameen Bank, which provides loans to the poor without requiring collateral. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Vocalist and Lilith Fair founder Sarah McLachlan. After folding the music showcase featuring women artists in 1999, McLachlan re-launched it this week and will use $1 from each ticket sold to help fund socially-conscious business ventures. Lilith Fair is also encouraging its ticket buyers to text donations to Muhammad Yunus' Grameen Bank, which provides loans to the poor without requiring collateral. Photographer: Kharen Hill/Sacks & Co. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Casey Verbeck  
                       
                         
                           Touch Point Trust Group via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Casey Verbeck, founder of the Boulder, Colorado-based i4c Campaign. Verbeck's company helped create the Lilith Fair's i4c Campaign that will give grants to help fund three socially-conscious businesses. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Casey Verbeck, founder of the Boulder, Colorado-based i4c Campaign. Verbeck's company helped create the Lilith Fair's i4c Campaign that will give grants to help fund three socially-conscious businesses. Source: Touch Point Trust Group via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
