-- Sarbanes-Oxley, Altria, Microsoft, MAN, Janus, Kier, Kagan in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-06-29T11:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/sarbanes-oxley-altria-microsoft-man-janus-kier-kagan-in-court-news.html

          
          
             BP Plc  was sued by members of its
employee savings plan over losses tied to company’s plunging
stock price amid the oil leak disaster in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 BP has lost more than half of its  market value  since the
April 20 explosion that caused the largest oil spill in U.S.
history. The fire and blast aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig that was working on a well for BP killed 11 members
of its crew.  
 The lawsuit, which seeks class action, or group, status was
filed in federal court in Chicago. Full-time, part-time,
occasional and temporary employees are eligible to invest in the
 employee savings plan , or ESP, according to the lawsuit. The
complaint states that regulatory filings show the plan held
$2.45 billion worth of BP American depositary shares, or 29
percent its $8.27 billion of assets, at the end of the 2009.  
 “Defendants knew or should have known that investment in
BP Plc equity was -- and continues to be -- an imprudent
investment of the ESP’s assets due to serious mismanagement and
improper business practices that resulted in catastrophic
incidents of international significance, including, among
others, the BP spill in the Gulf of Mexico,” the plaintiffs
said yesterday in the lawsuit.  
 Attorneys in the lawsuit include W. Mark Lanier and Milberg
LLP.  
 The case is Charis Moule vs. BP Corp. North America, 10-cv-
03990, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  
 American Italian Pasta Sued Over $1.2 Billion Bid  
 American Italian Pasta Co. , the biggest maker of dry pasta
in North America, was sued by a shareholder seeking to force a
higher price for the company than its planned $1.2 billion
takeover by  Ralcorp Holdings Inc.   
 The shareholder, Andrew Klenck, contends directors of
Italian American, which makes pasta in about 300 shapes and
sizes, are duty-bound to get the best price for the stock and
that the $53- a-share Ralcorp offer is unfair.  
 “The company reported strong key  measurements ” for the
second quarter,” and “has willingly entered into the proposed
transaction to the detriment of its shareholders,” Klenck said
in a complaint filed yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington.  
 Kansas City, Missouri-based American Italian announced June
21 it would be bought by Ralcorp, of St. Louis, in a cash
transaction expected to close by Sept. 30. Italian American’s
brands include Mueller’s and Golden Grain. Ralcorp’s food brands
include Ralston and Ry-Krisp.  
 “The company declines to comment” on the lawsuit, said
 Andrew Siegel , a spokesman for American Italian in New York.  
 The case is Klenck v. American Italian Past Co., CA5603,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here. For the latest lawsuits news,
click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Technip to Pay $338 Million to Settle Bribery Case  
 Technip SA , Europe’s second-largest  oilfield-services 
provider, will pay $338 million to avoid U.S. prosecution and
resolve civil claims that it bribed Nigerian officials to win $6
billion in construction contracts.  
 The Justice Department charged Technip with conspiracy and
violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by paying more than
$182 million in bribes related to liquefied natural gas plants.
Prosecutors will drop charges in two years if Technip pays a
$240 million fine and makes reforms. The Paris-based firm will
pay $98 million to resolve Securities and Exchange Commission
civil claims.  
 Technip “participated in a scheme to authorize, promise,
and pay tens of millions of dollars in bribes to Nigerian
government officials,” the company said yesterday in federal
court in Houston. The firm was in a joint venture with  Kellogg
Brown & Root Inc. , which pleaded guilty in February 2009 and
agreed with its former parent, Halliburton Co., to pay $579
million to resolve U.S. criminal and regulatory charges.  
 In a 17-page statement of facts entered in court yesterday,
Technip admitted conspiring to pay bribes to officials of the
Nigerian government’s executive branch, the state-owned Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp. and Nigeria LNG Limited, which awarded
contracts. Technip admitted that one payment involved $1 million
in $100 bills delivered in a briefcase in a Nigerian hotel.  
 The case is United States of America v. Technip SA, 10-cr-
431, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).
The Tesler and Chodan indictment is USA v. Jeffrey Tesler and
Wojiech J. Chodan, 09-cr-98, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston). The Stanley case is USA v. Albert
Jackson Stanley, 08-cr-597, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston).  
 For more, click here.  
 Ex-Boston Provident Trader Levy Gets 67 Months in Prison  
 Ezra Levy, a former trader and chief financial officer of
Boston Provident Partners LP, was sentenced yesterday to 67
months in prison for stealing about $3 million from the
Manhattan-based hedge fund.  
 Levy, 33, pleaded guilty in Manhattan federal court in
March to two schemes to defraud Boston Provident, run by Orin
Kramer, the chairman of the New Jersey State Investment Council.
He admitted committing securities fraud and wire fraud.  
 In his guilty plea, Levy admitted that he transferred $2.45
million from Boston Provident to his own account. He also said
he had the fund buy shares of  Atlas Energy Inc.  and another
stock at inflated prices from an account he controlled,
generating a $537,000 profit.  
 U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel yesterday ordered Levy to
pay $2.99 million in restitution, fined him $12,500 and ordered
him to surrender to federal prison by Sept. 7.  
 “Levy brazenly stole $3 million from the hedge fund where
he worked as a trader and thereby breached his fiduciary duty
and professional responsibilities,” assistant U.S. attorneys
William Stellmach and David Miller said in court papers.  
 Levy used the proceeds for personal expenses, including
credit card payments, to purchase real estate and to buy an
Aston Martin, said prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara.  
 Katya Jestin, a lawyer for Levy, asked for leniency for her
client, saying he suffered from Lyme disease, a “depressive
disorder and alcoholism that may have impaired his ability to
distinguish right from wrong at the time he committed fraud.  
 The case is U.S. v. Levy, 09-mj-2473, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 High Court Leaves Sarbanes-Oxley Audit Board Intact  
 The  U.S. Supreme Court  left intact the centerpiece of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act while ruling that the executive branch should
have more authority over members of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board.  
 The 5-4 decision released yesterday said the 2002 law
passed in response to accounting frauds at  Enron Corp.  and
 WorldCom Inc.  didn’t give the president enough say over the
board created by the act. The Securities and Exchange Commission
must have unfettered power to fire the board’s chairman and
members in order for it to adhere to separation of powers
provisions in the Constitution, the high court ruled.  
 Concern that the Supreme Court would issue a more sweeping
ruling had prompted the SEC to put together contingency plans to
take over some of the accounting board’s duties if it was
dissolved. The decision gives the SEC broader authority to
remove members without requiring any further action by
regulators or lawmakers, said Christopher Bartolomucci, a
partner at Hogan Lovells in Washington.  
 “The effect of the court’s decision is quite limited,” he
said. “The board will continue to exist and its regulatory
powers will be the same.”  
 The Obama administration defended the accounting board,
saying the SEC exercised comprehensive control over the board’s
activities, including the auditing standards it issues and the
enforcement actions it takes. U.S. Solicitor General Elena
Kagan, now a Supreme Court nominee, argued the case for the
government.  
 In dissent, Justice Stephen Breyer said the majority’s
reasoning raised constitutional questions about a myriad of
other government entities.  
 The decision “will create an obstacle, indeed pose a
serious threat, to the proper functioning of that workable
government that the Constitution seeks to create,” Breyer
wrote.  
 The case is Free Enterprise Fund v. Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board, 08-861, U.S. Supreme Court
(Washington).  
 For more, click here.  
 U.S. Bid for Tobacco Damages Rejected by High Court  
 The  U.S. Supreme Court  rejected the Justice Department’s
bid for as much as $280 billion in tobacco company profits,
refusing to hear an Obama administration appeal.  Altria Group
Inc.  and  Reynolds American Inc. , the largest cigarette makers,
surged on the news.  
 The rebuff all but ensures that the racketeering suit first
pressed by former President Bill Clinton’s administration won’t
result in financial penalties against Altria’s Philip Morris USA
and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. It’s the second time the high
court has refused to hear government arguments in the case.  
 The court also rejected a group of industry appeals aimed
at overturning a trial judge’s finding that the cigarette makers
defrauded the public about the dangers of smoking for more than
50 years.  
 Matthew Myers, president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free
Kids, said yesterday, “It is now critical that the trial court
move forward with strongly enforcing the remedies that it did
order.”  
 A federal appeals court in Washington said in 2005 that
RICO allows only “forward-looking remedies” and doesn’t let
the government recoup ill-gotten gains.  
 Philip Morris, maker of Marlboros and the largest U.S.
tobacco company, called the 1999 lawsuit “an unprecedented
effort to use litigation to obtain extensive regulatory
authority over the tobacco industry that, until recently, it had
been unable to secure through the legislative process.”  
 The government’s appeal is United States v. Philip Morris,
09-978. The industry’s appeals include Philip Morris USA v.
United States, 09-976; R.J. Reynolds Tobacco v. United States,
09-977; Altria Group v. United States, 09-979; and Lorillard v.
United States, 09-1012.  
 For more, click here.  
 Business Method Patents Limited by U.S. Supreme Court  
 The  U.S. Supreme Court  ruled against two men who sought to
patent a system for hedging energy trades, while leaving the
door open to allowing limited legal protections for registering
business methods.  
 The ruling in the so-called Bilski case was the first time
in 29 years that the court voted on what types of innovations
qualify for legal protection. While the decision was unanimous,
the justices divided 5-4 in their reasoning, with the majority
declining to bar all patents on methods of conducting business.  
 “This is a victory for people in favor of broader patents
generally, including software,” said patent lawyer Edward
Reines of Weil Gotshal in California, who was watching the case.
“The stakes are high, the technology is evolving rapidly and
it’s really difficult to make all-purpose rules in this area.”  
 The justices voting in the majority said there needs to be
a flexible test for emerging technologies. The case drew record
interest for a business dispute before the highest U.S. court,
with  Microsoft Corp.  and  Morgan Stanley  among dozens of
companies filing briefs. The fight split industries, dividing
companies that rely on their own intellectual property from
those aiming to head off expensive infringement lawsuits.  
 The dispute involved Bernard L. Bilski and Rand A. Warsaw,
founders of a Pittsburgh company that sells customized consumer
energy products. The Supreme Court was reviewing a decision by
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit against Bilski
that said methods can be patented only if they have some
physical component, through either a connection to a machine or
their power to transform an item into a different state.  
 The case is Bilski v. Kappos, 08-964, U.S. Supreme Court
(Washington).  
 For more, click here.  
 Ex-MAN Turbo Chief Convicted of Bribery Gets Suspended Sentence  
 The former top executive at a  MAN SE  unit was convicted of
bribery, receiving a two-year suspended prison sentence and an
order to pay 100,000 euros ($123,350) to charities.  
 The former chief executive of MAN Turbo AG, identified only
as Heinz Juergen M., authorized more than 9 million euros in
bribes to win orders tied to a gas pipeline in Kazakhstan, the
Munich Regional Court said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
The sentence was part of an agreement between court, defense and
prosecution, according to the statement.  
 “The court took into account the full cooperation of the
accused right from the beginning,” the judges said. “It
warrants particular notice that he took full responsibility and
didn’t try to put the blame on his subordinates.”  
 MAN SE, Europe’s third-largest truckmaker which is 29.9
percent owned by  Volkswagen AG , last year agreed to pay 150.6
million euros in fines to resolve an investigation into alleged
bribes paid by its truck and turbo units.  
 Thomas Elsner, attorney for Heinz Juergen M., 66, didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  
 The bribes were paid between October 2005 and May 2008. The
former executive was convicted of bribing employees of a private
company and not of bribing a government official, according to
the court. Bribes to government officials carry a sentence of as
many as five years under German law.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Securities Fraud Appeal by Janus Gets U.S. Supreme Court Review  
 The  U.S. Supreme Court  agreed to use an appeal involving
fund manager  Janus Capital Group Inc . to consider placing new
restrictions on shareholder fraud lawsuits.  
 The justices will review a federal appeals court decision
letting shareholders sue Janus and a subsidiary for helping
produce allegedly misleading prospectuses for Janus mutual
funds. Janus contends that the funds are separate legal entities
and that neither the parent company nor the subsidiary were
responsible for the prospectuses.  
 The case will be a follow-up to a 2008 Supreme Court
decision that restricted securities suits against a company’s
banks and business partners.  
 The latest fight stems from allegations that the Janus
funds allowed preferred clients to engage in “market timing,”
a practice of making frequent, short-term trades at the expense
of other investors. Denver-based Janus agreed in 2004 to pay
$326 million to settle claims by state and federal regulators.  
 The prospectuses said the funds had taken steps to deter
market timing. In the lawsuit, Janus shareholders say those
assurances were revealed to be false in 2003 when New York
officials filed a complaint against the company, causing its
share price to fall.  
 The justices agreed to take up the case against the advice
of the Obama administration, which urged rejection of the Janus
appeal. The court will hear arguments and rule during the nine-
month term that starts in October.  
 The case is Janus Capital Group v. First Derivative
Traders, 09-525, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  
 Kier Challenges Fine in U.K.’s Biggest Cartel Probe  
 Kier Group Plc , the builder fined 17.9 million pounds ($27
million) last year following the biggest cartel investigation by
a U.K. antitrust regulator, told an appeals court that the
penalty was “discriminatory.”  
 Britain’s  Office of Fair Trading  should be made to reduce
the fine because it didn’t account for Kier’s low profit margin
or the builder’s early admission that it rigged bids, lawyers
for the company said yesterday at a hearing at the  Competition
Appeal Tribunal  in London.  
 “The fine was inflicted above levels necessary for
deterrence,”  Mark Brealey , Kier’s lawyer with the firm Brick
Court Chambers in London, said at the hearing. He compared the
penalty with a motorist getting their hand chopped off as a
punishment for breaking the speed limit.  
 The fines , the most levied by the watchdog in an antitrust
probe, capped a five-year inquiry into efforts to stamp out low
bids and inflate costs. Many of the appeals claim the OFT’s
process of raising fines to deter would-be infringers is
calculated wrongfully using a percentage of a company’s global
revenue instead of U.K. sales alone.  
 “This appeal, if successful, could have a major impact on
the OFT’s fining policy and, in particular, on the application
of the minimum deterrence threshold,” said Ros Kellaway, who
leads the competition group at the law firm  Eversheds LLP  in
London. The challenge “could impact on other cases currently
under appeal as well as future infringement decisions.”  
 Jonathan Marciano, a spokesman for the OFT, said yesterday
that the agency would “vigorously” defend the fines.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Court News  
 Kagan Vows Impartiality as Senators Start Hearings  
 U.S. Supreme Court  nominee Elena Kagan said she will do her
best to “consider every case impartially, modestly,” as
senators began confirmation hearings amid partisan disagreement
over her qualifications.  
 The court’s motto of “equal justice under law” promises
that the justices will provide “a fair shake for every
American,” Kagan said in excerpts from the opening statement
she planned to deliver yesterday to the Senate Judiciary
Committee. The high court must be “properly deferential to the
decisions of the American people and their elected
representatives,” Kagan said.  
 The Democratic-controlled panel quickly established the
battle lines over Kagan’s appointment by President Barack Obama,
his second to the high court. Democrats said Kagan has had an
outstanding and varied career; Republicans accused her of
political activism and a lack of judicial experience.  
 Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy, a Vermont
Democrat, said Kagan’s “legal qualifications are
unassailable,” and she has “excelled during every part” of
her career. He said Americans will find Kagan’s views “well
within the legal mainstream.”  
 Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, the ranking Republican on
the committee, said “there are serious concerns about this
nomination.” Kagan has “less real legal experience” of any
nominee in at least 50 years and has “barely practiced law,”
he said. He said most of Kagan’s background is in policy and
politics.  
 Her confirmation by the full Senate would place three women
on the Supreme Court at once for the first time in its 221-year
history. Kagan is solicitor general at the Justice Department,
the Obama administration’s chief courtroom lawyer and the first
woman in that position.  
 She is a heavy favorite to become the court’s 112th
justice, with lawmakers predicting confirmation barring a major
gaffe during this week’s hearings. Kagan will make her opening
statement after the 12 Democrats and seven Republicans on the
committee have an opportunity to speak.  
 For more, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        