-- Sarkozy's Squeeze on Ministers Is Prelude to Budget Reductions, Noyer Says
-- Helene Fouquet
-- 2010-06-29T13:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/sarkozy-s-squeeze-on-ministers-is-prelude-to-budget-reductions-noyer-says.html

          
          
             President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s order to
ministers to cut staff and use of government cars and planes is
a “symbol” to prepare voters for substantive budget
reductions, Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said.  
 “It’s important to set the example,” Noyer said today on
 Europe 1  radio. “Afterward we’ll have to find significant
savings. It’s the symbol of the coming shift into rigorous
management.”  
 Sarkozy should announce specifics to persuade investors
France will reach its deficit-reduction target, the chairman of
the parliament’s finance committee, Socialist  Jerome Cahuzac ,
said in an interview late yesterday. France has promised to
reduce its  budget deficit  to 3 percent of gross domestic product
in 2013 from 8 percent this year.  
 “Denying the austerity plan that is being implemented in
France may create uncertainties among foreign observers,” said
Cahuzac.  
 France is the only country among Europe’s five largest
economies that has yet to spell out a savings plan for 2011. The
premium investors charge the French government to borrow for 10
years over the  German yield  has jumped to 50 basis points today
from 26.1 points at the end of May.  
 Sarkozy yesterday said he’d trim the state payroll by
100,000 people by 2013, doubling a reduction made in the past
three years. The budget ministry estimates savings of 3 billion
euros ($3.7 billion) from that plan out of a targeted 40 billion
euros in cuts and tax increases planned for next year.  
 Pension Push  
 Noyer, who also sits on the governing council of the
European Central Bank, praised Sarkozy’s push to increase the
minimum retirement age to 62 from 60 starting in 2018. Under the
proposal, people will have to work until 67 to tap their full
state pension instead of 65 currently.  
 “This is the sort of thing that needs to be done,” Noyer
said. “We have to bring the pension system into balance and it
cannot be by increasing charges alone.”  
 Some of the savings will come from eliminating tax breaks.
The budget ministry aims to raise 10 billion euros by doing so
over three years, though Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde 
today ruled out returning sales tax on restaurants to the 19.5
percent level for all goods and services after a reduction last
year. The government may consider abolishing mortgage-interest
relief and the reduced value-added tax rate on home renovations.  
 Lagarde expressed reluctance at having to cut her staff of
advisers to 20 from 28 under Sarkozy’s latest order. “I have 28
advisers and they work like mules,” she said. “We cover issues
from small companies to labor to taxes to banks to G20 to
European matters.”  
 “It’s not my eight advisers that are going to bring down
the debt,” she said. “It is a symbol that we have to be
careful with our spending, and if I have to do it, I’ll do it.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     President Nicolas Sarkozy is weighing investor pressure to reduce France’s budget shortfall against union demands to limit cuts. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Gilles Moec, an economist at Deutsche Bank AG, talks about French President Nicolas Sarkozy's plan to lift the minimum retirement age to 62 and increase taxes to stem losses in the pension system.
     Moec talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Bank of France Governor Christian Noyer. Photographer: Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
