-- Schmitt Elected Hungarian President as Orban's Ruling Party Tightens Grip
-- Zoltan Simon
-- 2010-06-29T12:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/schmitt-elected-hungarian-president-as-orban-s-ruling-party-tightens-grip.html

          
          
             Pal Schmitt , a ruling party lawmaker
and top sports administration official since communist times,
was elected as Hungary’s next president.  
 Schmitt, a 68 year-old former two-time Olympic champion in
fencing and European Parliament vice president, succeeds  Laszlo Solyom  to become the country’s fourth president since Hungary’s
transition from communism to democracy 20 years ago. Lawmakers
elected Schmitt over Socialist candidate Andras Balogh, a
diplomat, with more than two-thirds of the vote today.  
 Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s  Fidesz  party swept to power
in April elections, winning an unprecedented two-thirds majority
in the legislature, which gives it enough votes to pass all
appointments and rewrite the Constitution. Orban, who is trying
to oust central bank President  Andras Simor , is taking control
of institutions and government agencies in the month after
assuming office.  
 Hungary’s prime minister has the bulk of executive power
and the president’s role is largely ceremonial. Responsibilities
include signing bills into law, with the option of sending
legislation back to lawmakers for reconsideration or to the
Constitutional Court for a legal probe. Solyom’s five-year term
expires on August 4.  
 Schmitt, who won Olympic gold medals in fencing in 1968 and
1972, was a deputy chairman of Fidesz from 2003 to 2007 and a
vice president of the European Parliament from July 2009 to May
2010. He has headed the Hungarian Olympic Committee since 1990
and was vice president of the International Olympic Committee
from 1995 to 1999. He was a deputy state secretary for sports
under communism in the 1980s.  
 Orban proposed Schmitt for the job, saying he was the “most
qualified” candidate, MTI news service reported yesterday.
Schmitt on June 24 said as president he “wouldn’t block the
government’s agenda and would instead be its motor.”  
 Schmitt’s election coincided with the resignation of  Adam Farkas , head of the independent financial regulator, who cited
the need for the government’s confidence to do his job. Fidesz
appointed  Laszlo Domokos , one of its parliamentary deputies, to
head the independent State Audit Office.  
 Orban is also trying to oust Simor, who has dismissed calls
for his resignation, saying it was his “constitutional duty”
to serve out his term until 2013.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        