-- Seaspan Says Shanghai Listing May Hinge on China Easing Currency Controls
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-29T04:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/seaspan-says-yuan-controls-biggest-issue-detering-shanghai-share-listing.html

          
          
             Seaspan Corp. , the New York-listed
ship lessor, said currency controls will be a key issue in
determining whether it moves ahead with a possible stock
offering in China.  
 “If I sell shares in Shanghai I get yuan in return, but
yuan are no use to me,” Chief Executive Officer  Gerry Wang  said
in an interview in Shanghai yesterday. “I need to convert them
into dollars.”  
 A Shanghai listing would give the Hong Kong-based company
funds to buy vessels as global trade and shipping rates rebound,
subject to China’s controls on converting yuan into foreign
currencies. HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Plc have
also said they may sell shares in Shanghai as China considers
allowing listings by overseas companies.  
 “If companies are looking to raise money in Shanghai and
then channel it elsewhere, the capital restrictions would be an
impediment,” said  David Cohen , an economist at Action Economics
in Singapore. “Still, the Chinese don’t want to rush blindly
into the opening up of financial flows.”  
 China last year paused efforts to make the yuan more
convertible on the capital account to help cope with the global
financial crisis. The country restricts currency convertibility
to help safeguard the stability of the financial system.  
 Shanghai’s stock exchange is drafting rules for a board on
which overseas companies will be allowed to sell shares,
Chairman Geng Liang said in March. The international board still
faces legal hurdles as current legislation doesn’t cover many
matters related to overseas companies issuing yuan-denominated
stocks and bonds,  Yao Gang , vice chairman of the China
Securities Regulatory Commission, said earlier this month.  
 HSBC Plan  
 HSBC, Europe’s biggest bank by market value, aims to raise
a “significant amount” through a Shanghai stock listing, Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Geoghegan  said earlier this month. The
bank is more likely to sell shares in the city in 2011 than this
year, Chairman  Stephen Green  said in May.  
 Seaspan  rose 0.2 percent to $10.74 in New York trading
yesterday. The company has gained 16 percent this year.  
 Separately, Wang said rising availability of container
vessels may mean that cargo-box rates are unlikely to climb any
further this year, even as demand recovers from last year’s
slump. Spot rates for carrying 40-foot containers from Shanghai
to Los Angeles have risen to about $3,000 from less than $1,000
at the start of 2009, he said. Rates may hold at current levels
before starting to decline from November when the low season for
transpacific trade begins, he said.  
 Container Imports  
 Demand for Chinese goods has increased this year as U.S.
importers rebuild inventories following cuts last year and as
they step up buying in expectation of a stronger yuan. Container
imports at U.S. ports may rise as much as 15 percent from last
year through October, according to the  National Retail
Federation , a U.S. trade group.  
 Seaspan  plans to raise about $140 million in equity or
capital by the second quarter of 2012, it said in a May
statement. At the end of March, the lessor had $1.4 billion of
installments remaining on outstanding ship orders. It has
secured long-term credit facilities to cover most of this,
according to the statement.  
 The lessor received its 10th new vessel this year on June 4.
The company has 52 vessels in service and is due to receive
another 17 within the next two years, according to a June 7
 statement .  
 Seaspan’s ships are operated by lines including China
Shipping Container Lines Co., A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S and China
Cosco Holdings Co.  
 -- Li Xiaowei  with assistance from  Wing-gar Cheng  in Hong Kong.
Editors:  Neil Denslow ,  Garry Smith   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Li Xiaowei  in Shanghai at 
 Xli12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Jacob Kirkegaard, a research fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the Group of 20 leaders' plan to cut deficits and pursue higher capital requirements for banks once their economic recoveries take root.
     Kirkegaard, speaking from Washington, also discusses the shift in China's currency policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
