-- SEC to Pay Ex-Enforcement Attorney Aguirre $755,000 Over 2005 Termination
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-06-29T17:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/sec-to-pay-ex-enforcement-attorney-aguirre-755-000-over-2005-termination.html

          
          
             The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will pay $755,000 to a former enforcement attorney
who said the agency unjustly fired him after he tried to
investigate insider-trading allegations involving former  Morgan
Stanley  Chief Executive Officer  John Mack .  
 Gary Aguirre  will be paid $649,100 plus attorneys’ fees
totaling $105,900 to resolve allegations he was a victim of
whistleblower retaliation, according to a Merit Systems
Protection Board settlement released today. The total covers
more than four years of salary Aguirre would have received if he
hadn’t been fired by the SEC in September 2005.  
 Aguirre complained during congressional testimony in 2006
that supervisors blocked his investigation of Mack because of
the executive’s stature in the financial industry. The accord
with Aguirre concludes an embarrassing period for the SEC in
which Senators  Charles Grassley  and  Arlen Specter  ordered senior
officials to testify and accused the agency of showing deference
to Wall Street, former SEC attorney  Jacob Frenkel  said.  
 “This is the agency putting a difficult chapter behind
it,” said Frenkel, who’s now at law firm Shulman Rogers Gandal
Pordy & Ecker in Potomac, Maryland.  
 Aguirre, 70, said he suspected that Pequot Capital
Management Inc. profited from trading on information Mack
provided before joining Morgan Stanley in June 2005. Mack denied
any wrongdoing when he was questioned by the SEC in August 2006.
The agency closed its probe of the CEO three months later.  
 Pequot Probe  
 The SEC later opened a second investigation of Pequot that
focused on whether the hedge fund illegally profited in 2001 by
obtaining market-moving tips about  Microsoft Corp.   
 Pequot and its founder,  Arthur Samberg , agreed in May to
pay almost $28 million to settle claims they received inside
information about expected Microsoft earnings from an employee
at the software company who was about to join Pequot.  
 The resolution of the Pequot case made it possible for
Aguirre to reach an accord with the SEC, he said today in a
telephone interview.  
 “I wanted to demonstrate one way or another that the SEC
had made a huge mistake in closing down this investigation,” he
said. “Getting them to come clean, that was the victory.”  
 Mack, who remains  chairman  of Morgan Stanley after stepping
down as CEO in December, repeatedly denied wrongdoing. Samberg
and Pequot didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing in settling the case.  
 ‘Underpaid’  
 Aguirre didn’t “work effectively with other staff
members” and was unwilling “to operate within the SEC
process,” then-SEC Enforcement Director  Linda Thomsen  said in
his 2005 termination notice. He was fired six days before his
one-year anniversary at the SEC, when he was a probationary
employee and thus easier to terminate.  
 Thomsen submitted the termination notice less than two
weeks after Aguirre got a raise increasing his salary by $3,853
to $134,110. Aguirre also received a performance evaluation in
June 2005 that said his work was acceptable.  
 SEC enforcement attorney  Mark Kreitman , who was Aguirre’s
supervisor, said he signed off on the pay increase because “his
staff was underpaid and wanted them to get what money was
available,” according to a 2008 report by SEC Inspector General
H.  David Kotz . Kreitman said he had “serious reservations”
about Aguirre, according to Kotz’s report.  
 “The settlement with Mr. Aguirre shows that the SEC is
finally acknowledging its mistake,” Specter, a Pennsylvania
Democrat, said in a statement.  
 ‘Global’ Accord  
 The accord is “global,” meaning it resolves all current
disputes between Aguirre and the agency, and any future
grievances that may arise. Aguirre agreed to never apply for
another job at the agency.  
 SEC spokesman  John Nester  said he had no immediate comment
on the settlement, which is not an admission by the agency that
Aguirre’s claims were legitimate, according to a Merit Systems
Protection Board filing.  
 Kotz concluded the SEC mishandled Aguirre’s firing.
Aguirre’s supervisors didn’t provide timely feedback when they
had concerns about his conduct, denying him the chance to change
his behavior, said Kotz, who conducted his review of the
termination at the request of Grassley, an Iowa Republican.  
 Specter and Grassley released a  report  in August 2007 that
concluded the main reason the SEC didn’t question Mack earlier
was because of his “prominent position on Wall Street” and
connections his lawyers had with senior SEC officials. Aguirre
pursuit of his testimony was “reasonable,” it said.  
 “The stated reasons for his termination simply do not hold
up under close scrutiny, leaving the Mack dispute as the more
persuasive explanation,” the report said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Gary J. Aguirre, a former attorney for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Photographer: Ken Cedeno/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
