-- Forint May Weaken to 3-Week Low on Public Debt Concern, Danske Bank Says
-- Krystof Chamonikolas
-- 2010-06-29T15:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/sell-hungarian-forint-leu-on-romania-risk-buy-koruna-danske-bank-says.html

          
          
             Hungary’s forint may depreciate to a
three-week low and Romania’s leu will remain “fragile” as
public finance concerns put emerging markets in Europe, the
Middle East and Africa “under pressure,”  Danske Bank AS  said.  
 The forint, the world’s worst-performing currency this
quarter against the euro, will likely weaken beyond 290 per euro
“within the next couple of days” as it remains on a
“technical weakening trend,” Danske Bank wrote in a report
today. The forint slumped 0.5 percent to 286.97 per euro at 5:09
p.m. in Budapest, and the leu dropped 0.4 percent.  
 Hungary’s forint has fallen 3 percent in the past seven
days as concern the global economic recovery was losing momentum
reduced demand for riskier assets. The country, which has the
highest public debt of the European Union’s eastern members, was
the first EU nation to ask for an international bailout during
the credit crisis in 2008. The country roiled markets worldwide
this month after local politicians compared its finances to
those of Greece.  
 “Public finances and political worries in both Hungary and
Romania are likely to keep EMEA markets under pressure,”
analyst  Lars Christensen  in Copenhagen said in the report. “We
therefore recommend investors to remain short in forint and leu,
but also use the opportunity to build long positions in the
koruna.”  
 ‘Safe Haven’  
 Romania, the EU’s second-poorest member, is also depending
on loans led by the International Monetary Fund to pull its
economy from the worst recession in two decades. The IMF
postponed a board meeting to discuss Romania’s loan program
after the country’s Constitutional Court threw out a plan to cut
pensions by 15 percent to meet IMF-mandated deficit cuts.  
 Investors should seek “safe haven” in the Czech koruna,
Danske Bank said. The currency may gain to 20 per euro by 2013
as the country’s finances and planned fiscal reforms make it the
“Switzerland of central and eastern Europe,” the bank said in
a June 11 report. The koruna was little changed at 25.758 per
euro.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        