-- Serbian Parliament Approves Law That Clears Way for Central Bank Governor
-- Gordana Filipovic
-- 2010-06-29T12:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/serbian-parliament-approves-new-law-paving-way-for-central-bank-governor.html

          
          
             Serbia’s parliament approved a new
central bank law that paves the way for the appointment of a
governor three months after  Radovan Jelasic  announced his
unexpected resignation.  
 The legislation, backed by 127 deputies in the 250-seat
assembly, extends the governor’s term to six years from five
years and creates an executive board, previously known as the
monetary board, which will make policy decisions and decide on
interest rates, the key tool used to achieve price stability.  
 The law strengthens the National Bank of Serbia’s
independence, though it still faces the task of keeping
inflation within its 4 percent to 8 percent target band while
the government tries to boost living standards.  
 Serbia’s economy contracted 3 percent last year, when the
Balkan nation took a 3 billion-euro ($3.66 billion) bailout loan
from the International Monetary Fund to bolster currency
reserves. The central bank and the IMF expect gross domestic
product to grow 1.5 percent in 2010 and 3 percent in 2011.  
 Jelasic, who was appointed to a five-year term in September
2007, said in March that he was stepping down for personal
reasons. A new governor was expected to be named quickly once
the law is approved, he has said.  
 Dinar Stability  
 The government wants the bank to ensure cheap and ample
liquidity to secure an economic recovery and new jobs while
keeping the dinar stable. The new law will also allow the bank
to oversee the implementation of a law on fiscal responsibility
that parliament is also working on.  
 The currency is about 7 percent weaker since the start of
the year and traded at 104.38 against the euro at 2:13 p.m. in
Belgrade. The depreciation has yet to spill over into price
growth. The inflation rate was 3.7 percent in May, below the
target band.  
 The central bank has sold 218 million euros so far this
month to support the dinar, bringing the total to more than 1
billion euros since January to curb the currency’s decline.  
 The IMF yesterday completed its fourth review of Serbia’s
policies under the loan program and approved the disbursement of
$473 million. The Balkan nation plans to only draw about 15
percent of the tranche, the central bank said in a statement.  
 “Serbia’s external financing position has improved
markedly, the reserve position is broadly comfortable, and
inflation remains in check,” IMF Deputy Managing Director
 Murilo   Portugal  said in a statement posted on the IMF’s website.
“Notwithstanding these positive developments, Serbia remains
vulnerable to adverse financial spillovers from the region.”  
 Despite weak inflation, the IMF said the central bank
should be careful about further policy easing “given still
unanchored inflation expectations and the potential for
increased pass-through of recent exchange rate depreciation.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:  Gordana Filipovic  in
Belgrade at   gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        