-- South Korea Current-Account Surplus Widens in Sign of Resilience to Europe
-- William Sim
-- 2010-06-29T00:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/south-korea-current-account-surplus-widens-in-sign-of-resilience-to-europe.html

          
          
             South Korea’s current-account
surplus widened to a six-month high in May, adding to evidence
of accelerating growth in Asia’s fourth-biggest economy.  
 The surplus was $3.83 billion, after a revised $1.42
billion in April, the Bank of Korea said in Seoul today. The
current account is the broadest measure of international trade,
tracking goods, services and investment income.  
 The government last week raised its 2010 economic growth
forecast to 5.8 percent, from a December projection of 5 percent,
saying a faster-than-expected global recovery is spurring
exports and local demand. South Korea may join India, Malaysia
and Taiwan in the region in increasing borrowing costs as the
economy shows resilience to Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  
 “A rate hike is looming as the economy remains strong and
inflation is poised to pick up,”  Lee Sang Jae , a senior
economist at Hyundai Securities Co. in Seoul, said before the
report. “The Bank of Korea will gradually raise interest rates
unless the European crisis drags the world down.”  
 The won, which last week dropped the most in two weeks on
concerns Europe’s debt crisis will hurt the global recovery,
gained 1.1 percent to close at 1,202.00 per dollar yesterday in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark
 Kospi  stock index rose 0.1 percent to 1,732.03.  
 Economic Growth  
 South Korea’s $929 billion economy expanded 2.1 percent
last quarter from the previous three months, a June 4 report
showed, compared with an April estimate of 1.8 percent.  
 Total exports on a customs-cleared basis, which excludes
ships, surged 40.5 percent last month from a year earlier, as
the global economic recovery boosted demand for Korean-made
products like Samsung Electronics Co.’s semiconductors and
Hyundai Motor Co.’s cars. Imports rose 49.4 percent,
accelerating from a revised 42.2 percent increase in April.  
 The Bank of Korea kept its benchmark rate unchanged at 2
percent for a 16th month in June as Governor  Kim Choong Soo 
gauged the risks of growing inflationary pressures and Europe’s
fiscal woes. The next BOK meeting is scheduled for July 9.  
 The surplus for traded goods narrowed to $4.18 billion last
month from a revised $5.12 billion in April, today’s report
showed. The services deficit, which measures the flow of travel,
transport costs and royalties, was $643 million in May, compared
with a revised $1.85 billion in April.  
 The income account had a $298 million surplus, after a
revised $1.38 billion deficit in April, when most local firms
paid dividends to their foreign shareholders.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        