-- South Korea's Industrial Production Rose 21.5% in May, 11th Monthly Gain
-- William Sim
-- 2010-06-29T23:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/south-korea-s-industrial-production-rose-21-5-in-may-11th-monthly-gain.html

          
          
             South Korea’s industrial production
rose for an 11th straight month in May, adding to signs the
nation’s export-led economy is weathering Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis.  
 Output  advanced 21.5 percent from a year earlier, after
gaining a revised 20.1 percent in April, the statistics office
said today in Gwacheon. That was more than the  median estimate 
in a Bloomberg News survey of 13 economists for a 20.8 percent
gain. Production rose 2.6 percent in May from a month earlier.  
 The government last week raised its 2010 economic growth
forecast to 5.8 percent, from a December projection of 5 percent,
and vowed to “normalize” its accommodative policies and act
preemptively against inflation. South Korea may join India,
Malaysia and Taiwan in the region in raising borrowing costs as
the economy shows resilience to Europe’s debt crisis.  
 “It’s time to raise rates as the economy remains steady
and is already back on a normal course,”  Lim Ji Won , an
economist at JP Morgan Chase & Co. in Seoul, said ahead of the
report. “We need to normalize rates from super low to low.”  
 Inflation  accelerated and  exports  climbed for a seventh
straight month in May, bolstering the case for a rate increase.
The Bank of Korea said its board will focus more on “price
stability,” after keeping the benchmark interest rate at 2
percent for a 16th month on June 10.  
 Currency, Shares  
 The won declined 1.2 percent to close at 1,216.76 per
dollar in Seoul yesterday after touching a two-week low on
concern over the global recovery, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The benchmark  Kospi  stock index fell 1.4 percent to
1,707.76.  
 The economy expanded 2.1 percent last quarter from the
previous three months, a June 4 report showed, compared with an
April estimate of 1.8 percent.  
 Consumer sentiment  advanced for a second month in June as
the economy strengthened and the jobs market improved, the
central bank said last week. Manufacturers’  confidence  for July
held near a seven-year high and  unemployment  dropped to a 19-
month low in May.  
 A  leading index  of economic indicators, which forecasts
business activity, rose 8 percent in May from a year earlier,
compared with a revised 8.6 percent gain in April, today’s
report showed. Sales of consumer goods rose 1.1 percent last
month from April and 3.6 percent from a year earlier. Investment
in factories increased 22.3 percent from a year earlier.  
 The Bank of Korea’s policy board next meets to review
borrowing costs on July 9.  
 -- With assistance from  Michael Munoz  in Hong Kong. Editors:
 Michael Heath ,  Chris Anstey   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        