-- Topix Falls for Sixth Day, Reversing Gains on China Concern, Surging Yen
-- Norie Kuboyama
-- 2010-06-29T06:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/stocks-fluctuate-as-phone-companies-rise-inpex-falls-on-commodity-prices.html

          
          
             Japanese  stocks  fell, reversing
gains this morning and sending the Topix index to its sixth
consecutive drop, on concern over China’s economic growth and as
the surging yen hurt exporters.  
 Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. , which counts China as
its biggest market, dropped 2.2 percent following a 1.6 percent
advance. The Conference Board revised down its April gauge of
the outlook for China’s economy. Canon Inc., a maker of consumer
electronics that gets almost 80 percent of its sales outside
Japan, sank 2.7 percent as the yen strengthened to a seven-week
high against the dollar. Inpex Corp., Japan’s biggest oil
explorer, lost 3.8 percent as crude-oil prices retreated.  
 The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  fell 1.3 percent to 9,570.67
at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo, reversing a 0.7 percent gain this
morning. The broader Topix dropped 1 percent to 852.19, with
almost three times as many shares declining as advancing.  
 “The stock and currency markets have just entered a
negative spiral,” where falling stock prices lead to lower risk
tolerance, which strengthens the yen and further hurts stocks,
said  Ayako Sera , a strategist in Tokyo at Sumitomo Trust &
Banking Co., which manages about $310 billion. “But I don’t
think the move is the beginning of a long-term trend.”  
 The Topix’s six-day slump, its longest losing streak since
the period ended May 21, has widened its drop this year to 6.1
percent and cut the price of stocks in the gauge to 16.6 times
 estimated earnings . That compares with 16.4 times on June 9, the
cheapest level since December 2008.  
 This quarter, the Nikkei 225 has lost 14 percent and the
Topix has declined 13 percent, their  biggest drops  since the
quarter ended in December 2008, following the bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  
 Exports, Election  
 Stocks rose this morning even after reports showed Japan’s
 industrial production  and household spending slipped in May and
the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly increased.  
 The figures underscore Japan’s reliance on exports to
propel its rebound, and follow calls by the U.S. for Japanese
policy makers to stimulate domestic demand. For Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan , facing a mid-term election in less than two weeks,
the figures may pose a warning that it’s too soon to tighten
fiscal policy to shrink the nation’s debt.  
 Hitachi Construction, Asia’s second-largest excavator maker,
fell 2.2 percent to 1,688 yen, and larger rival Komatsu Ltd.,
which counts China as its fastest-growing market, slipped 1.3
percent to 1,645 yen.  
 Yen Hurts Exporters  
 The New York-based Conference Board said its index of
leading Chinese economic indicators rose 0.3 percent in April,
less than the 1.7 percent gain reported on June 15. The research
firm said in an e-mailed statement the previous release
contained a calculation error. China is Japan’s biggest export
destination.  
 Canon sank 2.7 percent to 3,395 yen, and Toshiba Corp.,
which gets more than half of its revenue overseas, fell 1.7
percent.  Honda Motor Co. , a carmaker that gets more than 80
percent of its sales abroad, slumped 1.3 percent. Nissan Motor
Co., which gets about 75 percent of its revenue outside Japan,
slid 1.9 percent to 629 yen. Electronics makers and car
companies were the biggest contributors to the Topix’s drop.  
 The yen surged during the midday break on the Tokyo stock
exchange, strengthening to as much as 88.61 against the dollar
from 89.37 at the close of stock trading in Tokyo yesterday.
Against the euro, it appreciated to 108.62 from 110.65. A
stronger yen reduces the value of overseas income for Japanese
companies when converted into their home currency.  
 Inpex, NTT  
 “It’s easy for the yen to get stronger out of caution that
the U.S. economy will be worse than expected,” said  Kazutaka Oshima , chief executive officer of Tokyo-based Rakuten
Investment Management Inc. “Investors don’t dare to take risks
before this week’s employment data and other economic reports.”  
 Inpex Corp., Japan’s biggest oil explorer, dropped 3.8
percent to 493,500 yen, and Japan Petroleum Exploration Co. lost
2.4 percent to 3,675 yen. Their industry group declined the most
in the Topix.  
 Crude oil for August delivery fell for the second day after
losing 0.8 percent to settle at $78.25 in New York yesterday on
speculation that production in the Gulf of Mexico will be
unaffected by a tropical storm in the region.  
 Among stocks that climbed today, Nippon Telegraph &
Telephone Corp., Japan’s largest phone company, gained 1 percent
to 3,660 yen and was the  biggest support  for the Topix. The
Nikkei newspaper said NTT Finance Corp., which manages funds for
group companies and makes business loans, may report its first
operating profit in three years.  
 The industry group that includes NTT rose the most in the
Topix out of the index’s 33 groups.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Norie Kuboyama  in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        