-- Stress Tests May Expose German Landesbanken's `Black Hole'
-- Aaron Kirchfeld
-- 2010-06-30T13:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/stress-tests-may-throw-light-on-the-black-hole-of-germany-s-landesbanken.html

          
          
             German officials seeking to bolster
confidence in the financial system by releasing the results of
banking stress tests may heed calls to shine a light into the
accounts of Germany’s state-owned lenders.  
 Banking industry officials, who met with regulators in
Frankfurt today, are generally willing to participate in the
tests, the Bundesbank said in a statement, so long as the same
criteria are used for all European banks.  
 “Stress tests can’t be credible without the
Landesbanken,” said  Simon Maughan , a London-based banking
analyst at MF Global Securities Ltd. “We need clarity on the
listed and unlisted sector to see where the real problems are.”  
 European Union leaders pledged on June 17 to disclose the
results of tests by the end of July showing how individual banks
would hold up to economic and market shocks. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  said it’s important to have “maximum
transparency,” after doubts about Greece’s ability to repay its
debts undermined confidence in the region’s banks.  
 More than a week later, questions remain over which banks
will be included. Landesbanken are under scrutiny after booking
more than $34 billion in credit losses and writedowns during the
global financial crisis, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, forcing state bailouts for Bayerische Landesbank,
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, HSH Nordbank AG and WestLB AG.  
 State-owned lenders  accounted  for 17.5 percent of loans to
companies and self-employed people in Germany at the end of last
year, compared with 11.9 percent for the country’s largest
commercial banks, according to the DSGV association of savings
banks. The government will rely on market pressure to compel
lenders to publish their stress-test results, the German finance
ministry said on June 18.  
 Bundesbank, BaFin, Banks  
 The Association of German Public Sector Banks, which
represents 62 lenders including the Landesbanken,  opposes 
publishing results for individual lenders, and is open only to
the release of aggregate results. Landesbanken are owned by
regional governments and groups of savings banks.  
 “German Landesbanken may harbor a black hole,” said
 Michael Helsby  and  Derek De Vries , analysts at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, in a note to clients on June 18. “These are
arguably unlikely to pass an unstressed test let alone a
stressed one.”  
 The first round of tests to be published by the Committee
of European Banking Supervisors will probably cover about 25 of
Europe’s largest banks, three people familiar with the matter
said yesterday. Those tests, which evaluate the impact of an
economic slump and don’t include risks tied to sovereign debt,
were passed by Deutsche Bank AG, Commerzbank AG and Munich-based
BayernLB, the people said. The CEBS tests may not be enough to
allay investors’ concerns.  
 ‘Biggest Problems’  
 “We cannot judge how serious the situation is until the
results are published,” billionaire investor  George Soros  said
in a speech in Berlin on June 23. “Indeed we shall not be able
to judge even then because the report will deal only with the 25
largest banks and the biggest problems are in the smaller banks,
notably the cajas in Spain and the Landesbanken in Germany.”  
 BayernLB, Dusseldorf-based WestLB, Norddeutsche Landesbank
Girozentrale in Hanover, Hamburg-based HSH Nordbank, LBBW in
Stuttgart, Landesbank Berlin Holding AG and Frankfurt-based
Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen Girozentrale declined to comment.  
 Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  told German lawmakers on
June 25 that tests on European banks may be extended to 100
lenders, according to  Hans Michelbach , the deputy finance
spokesman in parliament for Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc.  
 Weber, who is also an ECB Governing Council member, said on
June 17 that future stress tests in the banking industry may
include sovereign-debt holdings and signaled that the
Landesbanken will be included.  
 ‘Convincing Stress Tests’  
 “I don’t think that we in Germany can convey a convincing
stress test to the market if certain credit institutes that are
being discussed are excluded,” said Weber. “In this respect,
yes, it’ll be focused on big institutes and Landesbanken will
also be among these big institutes.”  
 Greece’s debt woes focused attention on Spain’s public
finances and the costs of buttressing the country’s savings
banks, known as “cajas,” that have been hobbled by a surge in
bad debts. The Bank of Spain has said it’s performing stress
tests on most of the country’s lenders, including commercial and
savings banks, and plans to publish results by August.  
 Europe’s banks had $2.29 trillion at risk in Greece, Italy,
Portugal and Spain at the end of 2009, according to figures from
the  Bank for International Settlements  in Basel, Switzerland.
German banks accounted for $520 billion.  
 Banking Risks  
 BayernLB held 1.6 billion euros ($2 billion) in sovereign
debt from Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain at the end of 2009,
the bank said in its annual report. WestLB has said it holds
about 1 billion euros of government bonds of the four countries
after shifting most of the debt to a bad bank. Other state
lenders including LBBW have declined to disclose their exact
exposure.  
 State banks may perform poorly in stress tests because they
don’t have large retail-banking operations and rely on corporate
client business, which would suffer in the event of an economic
slump, Merck Finck & Co. analyst  Konrad Becker  in Munich said.
HSH Nordbank is dependent on economic developments because of
its ship-financing unit, he said.  
 Landesbanken have high costs and lack a “viable” business
model, the International Monetary Fund said in a report in
March. Some of the state-owned lenders will continue to show a
“tendency for excessive risk-taking in search of profits” and
more needs to be done to prevent them from being “a continuous
drain on the public finances and a source of financial
instability for Germany,” the fund said at the time.  
 Government Bailouts  
 Landesbanken, which have enjoyed cheaper funding because of
state backing, ran into trouble after piling money into
structured products including subprime assets to boost profit.
Leipzig-based state lender  SachsenLB  was acquired by LBBW in
2008 to save it from collapse. LBBW needed a 5 billion-euro
capital injection a year later from its owners, including the
state of Baden-Wuerttemberg.  
 WestLB was bailed out and set up a bad bank to rid itself
of about a third of its assets, including toxic securities. HSH
Nordbank, a global shipping financier, tapped regional states
for 3 billion euros in capital and 10 billion euros in
guarantees to cover potential losses.  
 Not all state lenders ran into trouble. Landesbank Hessen-
Thueringen, known as Helaba, didn’t require state aid and posted
a profit last year. Landesbank Berlin was profitable for the
past three years.  
 The eight Landesbanken and DekaBank Deutsche Girozentrale,
the fund manager for Germany’s savings banks, had combined
assets of about 1.82 trillion euros and more than 54,000
employees at the end of 2009, the DSGV said.  
 More State Capital  
 The country’s Soffin bank-rescue fund, set up after the
2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., has provided
German lenders with about 29 billion euros in capital and about
153 billion euros in guarantees. The fund could be used to
inject capital into lenders if the stress tests deem it
necessary.  
 Attempts by Germany’s Landesbanken to merge have mostly
failed because of wrangling between regional politicians.
Germany may need only two or three state-owned banks,  Heinrich Haasis , president of the DSGV, said in February.  
 Government bailouts have drawn a public backlash across
Europe, raising concern about further state support. Germany’s
federal and state governments may have no other choice with the
Landesbanken after the stress tests, according to analysts.  
 “My guess is that absolutely nothing will change for the
Landesbanken and the German taxpayer will have to stump up
again,” said MF Global’s Maughan.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
 Jann Bettinga  in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel pose for a photo during the Group of Eight summit in Huntsville, Ontario. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel pose for a photo during the Group of Eight summit in Huntsville, Ontario. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
