-- Sugar Prices Drop as Egypt Cancels Buying Tender; Global Demand May Ease
-- M. Shankar
-- 2010-06-29T19:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/sugar-prices-drop-as-egypt-cancels-buying-tender-global-demand-may-ease.html

          
          
             Sugar futures fell to a one-week low
as investors grew concerned that China’s economy is slowing and
that a price rally to a two-month high was overdone.  
 The Conference Board corrected its April gauge for the
outlook on China’s economy, saying it rose by the smallest
amount since November. Hedge-fund managers and other large
speculators cut their net-long positions, or bets that futures
will rise, by 0.2 percent in the week ended June 22 from a week
earlier, government data showed.  
 “Some funds are liquidating,” said  Boyd Cruel , a senior
analyst at Vision Financial Markets in Chicago. “News from
China is dragging the entire pack down.”  
 Raw sugar for October delivery slumped 0.54 cent, or 3.4
percent, to 15.28 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.
Earlier, the price fell to 15.12 cents, the lowest level since
June 21. Yesterday, the contract declined 3.5 percent.  
 On the Liffe exchange in London, white-sugar futures for
October delivery plunged $21.60, or 4.5 percent, to $457.80 a
metric ton. Prices are down 36 percent this year.  
 The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of 19 raw materials
declined 2.8 percent to 256.27 in New York today, the most since
Aug. 14.  
 Egypt Cancels Buy  
 Egypt’s state-run Sugar and Integrated Industries Co.
canceled a tender for 100,000 metric tons of raw sugar because
of high prices, Ramadan Suleiman, a purchasing manager at the
company, said yesterday.  
 The supply picture is mixed. India, the largest sugar user,
may produce as much as 23 million metric tons in the year
starting Oct. 1, up 22 percent from an estimated 18.8 million
this season, a government official told reporters in New Delhi
today.  
 Output in Thailand, the second-largest exporter, may skid
13 percent in the next crop year as delayed rain and subsequent
floods will likely damage cane crops, the  Office of the Cane and
Sugar Board  said last week.  
 “The market is torn between negative news regarding the
progression of the monsoon and bad prospects for the Thai
production on the one hand, and reports about recalled purchase
intentions” such as the move by Egypt,  Eugen Weinberg , an
analyst with Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, wrote in an e-mailed
report today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
 M. Shankar  in London at 
 mshankar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        