-- High Court Backs U.S. `Soft Money' Ban, Rejecting Republicans
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-06-29T18:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/supreme-court-backs-u-s-soft-money-ban-rejecting-republican-challenge.html

          
          
             The  U.S. Supreme Court  rejected a
Republican challenge to the centerpiece of the 2002 campaign
finance overhaul, upholding the law’s ban on unregulated “soft
money” contributions to political parties.  
 Five months after striking down federal limits on corporate
campaign spending, the justices rebuffed free-speech arguments
against separate contribution restrictions that apply to
businesses, unions and individuals. The court issued no opinion,
instead summarily upholding a lower court ruling.  
 The decision marks a rare Supreme Court victory for
supporters of campaign spending regulations. Although Justices
 Antonin Scalia ,  Clarence Thomas  and  Anthony Kennedy  said they
would have scheduled arguments, they were unable to persuade the
two swing justices on campaign finance questions -- Chief
Justice  John Roberts  and Justice  Samuel Alito  -- to join them.  
 “The soft money ban lives for another election,” said
 Rick Hasen , an election-law professor at Loyola Law School in
Los Angeles.  
 The Republican National Committee argued in its appeal that
the law “imposes onerous restrictions on the First Amendment
rights of political parties and their members and places
political parties at a profound disadvantage to other
participants in the political process.”  
 In rejecting the RNC appeal and upholding the law, the
court avoided another collision with President  Barack Obama , who
has used the corporate spending decision in January to portray
the court as too beholden to business interests. The
administration defended the soft-money rules, saying they are
justified to prevent corruption.  
 Changing Court  
 The Supreme Court agreed with that reasoning in 2003,
upholding the ban on a 5-4 vote. The majority said then that
national parties had been “peddling access to federal
candidates and officeholders in exchange for large soft-money
donations.”  
 Since that time, the high court’s membership has changed.
Most notably, Justice  Sandra Day O’Connor , who voted to uphold
the 2002 law, was replaced in 2006 by Alito.  
 The January ruling, known as Citizens United v. Federal
Election Commission, said the government could restrict
political speech only to guard against either the possibility or
appearance that officials were exchanging political favors for
money, known as “quid pro quo” corruption.  
 Republican Position  
 The RNC said that interest doesn’t apply to soft money, at
least as the party was intending to use it. The Republicans said
they wanted to use donations for party-building activities,
rather than for support of particular federal candidates,
eliminating any risk of quid pro quo corruption.  
 Soft money isn’t subject to the contribution limits or
disclosure requirements that apply to regulated “hard money”
donations.  
 The Obama administration said the Citizens United reasoning
should be limited to the independent spending that was at issue
in that case and shouldn’t be applied to contributions. The
government pointed to earlier Supreme Court decisions giving the
government more power to police contributions.  
 “This court has consistently held that Congress has
greater latitude to limit contributions to candidates or
political committees than to limit independent expenditures,”
the administration argued.  
 Appellate Ruling  
 A three-judge panel ruled against the RNC in March, saying
it wouldn’t “get ahead of the Supreme Court” by striking down
the soft-money ban.  
 Today’s decision “goes against the consistent tide of
rulings by this court, which has systematically rolled back
federal campaign finance prohibitions and limitations that have
been on the books for decades,” said  Kenneth A. Gross , a
campaign and election lawyer at Skadden Arps Slate Meagher &
Flom LLP in Washington.  
 Theodore Olson , the Washington lawyer who represented the
RNC, said the case “was an opportunity to reaffirm our nation’s
commitment to the First Amendment and to the right of citizens
to join together and speak out for causes and candidates they
support.”  
 The victory for campaign-finance supporters on soft money
may be only a temporary one. Hasen said the court right now
might be “gun shy” about taking up another campaign case after
the Citizens United criticism.  
 He also said the RNC appeal was “a very weak case” for
attacking the soft-money rules because the party challenged the
ban only indirectly.  
 “The order today indicates that you already have three
justices willing to at least consider seriously undermining the
soft-money ban,” Hasen said in an e-mail. “If the RNC or
someone else files a new case straightforwardly seeking to
overturn the soft-money ban, Justice Alito, and probably the
chief, will be quite receptive to considering the question.”  
 The case is Republican National Committee v. Federal
Election Commission, 09-1287.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- The U.S. Supreme Court told a lower court to reconsider the public corruption convictions of HealthSouth Corp. founder Richard Scrushy and former Alabama Governor Don Siegelman. In a separate ruling, the high court upheld a ban on unregulated "soft money" contributions to political parties. Bloomberg's Greg Stohr reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
