-- U.A.E. Plans Shariah Money Market Entry After Law Change: Islamic Finance
-- Soraya Permatasari
-- 2010-06-29T10:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/u-a-e-plans-shariah-money-market-entry-after-law-change-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             The United Arab Emirates, the
second-largest Gulf economy, may follow Malaysia, Bahrain and
Indonesia in selling Islamic securities with maturities of less
than 12 months as legislators consider establishing a local debt
market, according to Royal Capital PJSC.  
 Islamic bills would give Shariah-compliant banks more
investment options, said  Ahmed Talhaoui , Abu Dhabi-based head of
investment at Royal Capital, which is 44 percent-owned by United
Gulf Bank BSC, an investment bank in Bahrain. The U.A.E.’s eight
Islamic banks held $49.8 billion of deposits at the end of 2009,
or about 19 percent of the total, central bank Governor  Sultan bin Nasser al-Suwaidi   said  at an Islamic banking conference in
Singapore on June 14.  
 Banks that adhere to Shariah principles “are facing a
maturity mismatch,” Talhaoui said in an interview yesterday.
“They are keeping a lot of deposits but their options are
limited. Some banks are playing a dangerous game, which is
essentially to match short-term liabilities with investments in
sukuk,” or Islamic bonds, which have longer maturities.  
 Malaysia, the world’s biggest market for Islamic bonds,
Bahrain and Indonesia sell bills to help soak up cash in the
financial system and set benchmarks for short-term bond sales.
Lawmakers in the U.A.E. are considering a proposal to establish
a government securities market by the end of the year, al-
Suwaidi said in March.  
 “Short-term liquidity management at Islamic banks and
other financial institutions,” is a challenge, al-Suwaidi said
this month in Singapore. “This is not a straightforward issue
and has been under discussion between Islamic banks and the
central bank. There is now a reasonable proposal to advance a
solution for this issue.”  
 Difference in Yields  
 Saeed Abdullah Al-Hamiz , executive director of the banking
supervision department at the U.A.E. central bank, didn’t
immediately return e-mails or phone calls to his office seeking
comment on the legislation. Governor al-Suwaidi said on March 15
that the legislation was in the final stages.  
 “The law will create a liquidity instrument that will
carry, not the guarantee of the central bank, but assurances
that the central bank will buy it for a certain price,” al-
Suwaidi said at that time.  
 Transactions in Islamic finance are based on the exchange
of assets rather than interest to comply with Shariah
principles. Global sales of sukuk fell 23 percent to $6.5
billion so far this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Issuance totaled $20.2 billion last year, up from
$14.1 billion in 2008.  
 Malaysia Bonds  
 The average gap between yields on Islamic bonds and the
London interbank offered rate widened 2.4 basis points, or 0.024
percentage point, yesterday to 433. The spread has narrowed 37
basis points so far this year, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index .  
 The  difference  between the average emerging-market yield
and Libor narrowed four basis points yesterday to 583, based on
the EMBI+ index from JPMorgan Chase & Co. It shrank 52 basis
points so far this year, or 15 basis points more than the
average spread for sukuk.  
 The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic notes due
June 2015 rose one basis point today to 3.517 percent, according
to prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  
 Bill Auctions  
 Malaysia’s central bank sold 500 million ringgit ($155
million) of 91-day Islamic bills at a weekly auction yesterday.
The  yield  on the securities rose four basis points to 2.68
percent from last week. Malaysia began weekly auctions of
Islamic central bank bills in 2006.  
 Bahrian’s central bank sold 12 million dinars ($32 million)
of three-month Islamic bills yesterday. The profit rate on the
notes rose to 0.88 percent from 0.85 percent at the previous
sale on May 31.  
 The yield on Bahrain’s 6.247 percent note due June 2014
fell one basis point to 3.494 percent today, according to
Bloomberg bond trader composite prices. The yield reached a
year-low of 3.437 percent on June 22.  
 Pakistan plans to start issuing Islamic Treasury bills and
will announce an auction schedule before June 30,  Syed Wasimuddin , a central bank spokesman, said in an e-mail
yesterday. The nation had 42.2 billion rupees ($494 million) of
outstanding domestic sukuk as of April 30, less than 1 percent
of its 4.6 trillion rupees of regular debt, according to data
from the central bank.  
 “It’s fundamental to the industry,” said  Harris Irfan ,
head of Islamic products at Barclays Capital in Dubai. “Right
now we rely on using the London interbank offered rate as a
benchmark and that has its inherent criticisms. But what
alternative is there? There is no Islamic Libor.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        