-- U.A.E. Banks May Suffer Up to 20% Loss on Dubai World Loans, Moody's Says
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-06-29T12:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/u-a-e-banks-may-suffer-up-to-20-loss-on-dubai-world-loans-moody-s-says.html

          
          
             United Arab Emirates’ banks may need
to set aside as much as 20 percent of their loans to state-
owned Dubai World to cover losses after it announced a $23.5
billion debt restructuring, Moody’s Investors Service said.  
 Losses as a result of the new debt terms “will be
manageable and within a range of 10 to 20 percent on average for
the exposed banks,”  John Tofarides , a bank analyst at Moody’s
said in a phone interview from Dubai today. Moody’s estimates
the Dubai World restructuring will wipe out between 6 percent
and 12 percent of the banks’ regulatory capital, he said.  
 Dubai World, the holding company whose Nakheel PJSC real-
estate unit is building palm-tree shaped islands off the
emirate’s coast, said May 20 it reached an agreement with its
main creditor group to restructure $14.4 billion of bank debt
and $8.9 billion of government liabilities as it seeks to
resolve a debt crisis that roiled global markets last year. It
said banks would be paid $4.4 billion in five years and another
$10 billion over eight years at below-market interest rates.  
 Moody’s rates the largest 13 of the 51 banks operating in
the U.A.E., which together represent 85 percent of the market
capitalization of lenders there.  Emirates NBD PJSC , the U.A.E.’s
biggest bank by assets, and  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC , the
third-largest, along with the local unit HSBC Holdings Plc are
among the banks that Moody’s rates and that have the biggest
holdings in Dubai World.  
 “For most exposed banks, profitability could be dented in
the short term from impairment,” Tofarides said. Profit would
be “easily replenished within three to six months,” he said.  
 U.A.E. banks have about $10 billion of loans to Dubai
World, on which terms are being altered, Tofarides said. That is
“less than the exposure of local and foreign banks operating in
the U.A.E. to the Saad and Algosaibi group restructuring” in
Saudi Arabia, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        