-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Falls to Six-Month Low as Budget Provokes Gloom
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-06-30T13:43:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/u-k-consumer-confidence-falls-to-six-month-low-as-budget-provokes-gloom.html

          
          
             U.K.  consumer confidence  fell to a
six-month low this month as Britons became more pessimistic
about the economic outlook in the face of planned government
spending cuts, GfK NOP said.  
 An  index of sentiment  fell to minus 19 from minus 18 in
May, the market researcher said in an e-mailed statement today
in London. Economists had forecast a decline to minus 20, based
on the median of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. A
measure of consumers’ optimism on the economy over the next 12
months dropped to minus 12 from minus 8.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  last week
announced the deepest spending cuts in a generation and higher
taxes to cut the U.K.’s record  budget deficit . An index of
 consumer sentiment  from Nationwide Building Society fell the
most since July 2008 last month and former Bank of England
policy maker  David Blanchflower  said the austerity measures may
push the economy back into a recession.  
 “Speculation around tax hikes in the lead-up to the
emergency budget has done nothing to improve consumer
confidence,”  Nick Moon , a managing director at GfK, said in the
statement. “What is particularly worrying as far as the
prospects of a double dip are concerned is the 3-point drop in
the index for confidence about the economy in general.”  
 Emergency Budget  
 Osborne’s plans to cut spending as part of an emergency
budget on June 22 will slice 85 billion pounds ($128 billion)
from government spending, equivalent to 5.7 percent of gross
domestic product, according to Institute for Fiscal Studies
 estimates .  
 A gauge of consumers’ perception of their  personal finances 
over the next 12 months rose one point to minus 2 this month.
GfK’s index of consumers’ keenness to buy big-ticket items, such
as cars and electrical goods, fell three points to minus 24.  
 This “suggests the government cannot rely on consumers to
fuel growth,” Moon said.  
 GfK surveyed 2,000 people from June 4 to June 20. The
margin of error is estimated at 2 percentage points.  
 U.K. house prices rose in June to a two-year high as the
property market showed “broad stability,” Nationwide. said in a
separate release today. The increase from May of 0.1 percent was
still the least in four months.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        