-- Competition Regulator Wins Concessions From Banks on ISA Interest Rates
-- James Lumley
-- 2010-06-29T11:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/u-k-regulator-wins-concessions-from-banks-on-savings-interest-rates.html

          
          
             U.K. banks agreed to print interest
rates on statements for savings accounts and help customers
switch to competitors more quickly following a consumer group’s
complaint, a regulator said.  
 The  Office of Fair Trading  won the concessions from the
industry after a complaint by  Consumer Focus  accused the
industry of luring customers in with short-lived introductory
rates higher than 3 percent which are then cut to less than 0.5
percent on average.  
 The savings accounts, known as cash ISAs, are held by 17.5
million people in the U.K. who hold 143 billion pounds ($215
billion) in savings. The consumer complaint, filed in March with
the OFT, claimed that fluctuating interest rates by  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc  and others caused customers to lose out on as
much as 3 billion pounds of interest payments a year.  
 “The transfer of cash ISAs is taking too long and there is
not enough transparency over interest rates,” Clive Maxwell, a
director at the OFT, said in statement today. “The voluntary
changes announced today will give consumers a fairer deal.”  
 The changes are a “sharp reminder” to the industry of its
responsibilities to customers, Consumer Focus Chief Executive
Officer Mike O’Connor said today in a statement.  
 Banks, which currently print interest rates on about 15
percent of cash ISA statements, agreed to include the data on
all statements by early 2012, the OFT said. The industry also
agreed to make it easier for customers to switch to competing
accounts, by speeding up the process to 15 working days from 23.  
 Industry Guidelines  
 The  British Bankers’ Association  said in an e-mailed
statement the changes reflect the industry’s own guidelines
created two years ago, and that banks will seek to further
improve transfer times.  
 “This is a clear example of how the industry has been
listening to the concerns of customers and consumer
organizations and we broadly welcome today’s report by the
OFT,” BBA director  Eric Leenders  said in the statement.  
 The timeframe for transferring accounts should still be
faster, O’Connor said.  
 “This market is inefficient, secretive and stops people
making informed choices about their life savings,” O’Connor
said. “ISA transfers should take days not weeks -- certainly
not over a month.”  
 The OFT called on the Financial Services Authority to
change its guidelines to reflect the timetable for speeding up
transfers and take regulatory actions if they fail to do so.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        