-- Lawmakers Accused of Fraud Tell Appeals Court Only Parliament Can Try Them
-- James Lumley
-- 2010-06-29T13:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/u-k-lawmakers-charged-with-fraud-appeal-parliamentary-privilege-ruling.html

          
          
             Lawyers for three former U.K.
lawmakers told a London appeals court that Britain’s criminal
courts don’t have the right to try the men for falsely
accounting for expenses while they served in Parliament.  
 A lower-court judge erred earlier this month when he ruled
that  Elliot Morley ,  David Chaytor  and  Jim Devine , all former
Labour party members of the House of Commons, should be tried in
a normal criminal court, their lawyers said today. Instead they
should be tried by Parliament itself, they told the Court of
Appeal.  
 “The appellants emphasize that they do not contend, at
all, that they are somehow ‘above the law,’” the men’s
attorneys said in a joint court filing. “However, it is
submitted that any investigation into their expenses claims and
the imposition of any sanctions for abuse of the Additional
Costs Allowance for MPs should lie within the hands of
Parliament.”  
 In a June 11 ruling at Southwark Crown Court, Justice  John Saunders  rejected arguments that the rule of “Parliamentary
privilege” means the men can only be tried by the legislative
body. He said there was “no logical, practical or moral
justification” for them not being tried in a courtroom.  
 The men have all pleaded not guilty to the charges.  
 While Parliamentary privilege protects lawmakers from
prosecution for carrying out their Parliamentary duties,
Saunders said that in relation to criminal charges the privilege
should be “narrowly construed.”  
 Not ‘Immune’  
 While the men don’t suggest they are “immune from criminal
law,” because they were lawmakers, they do claim they are
immune from prosecution for actions arising from “performance
of their functions” as lawmakers, today’s submission said.  
 Parliament, as well as the criminal courts, has the power
to fine and imprison, the submission said.  
 Edward Fitzgerald  is representing Morley, Gavin Millar is
representing Devine and Nigel Pleming is representing Chaytor.  
 The hearing at the Court of Appeal is scheduled to last two
days. Prosecutors will make their case later in the hearing.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        