-- U.K. Government Needs Policy Changes to Meet CO2 Goal, Climate Panel Says
-- Catherine Airlie
-- 2010-06-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/u-k-government-needs-policy-changes-to-meet-co2-goal-climate-panel-says.html

          
          
             The U.K. government needs to change
its policies to direct investment to low-carbon projects and meet
its environmental targets, the Climate Change Committee said.  
 Electricity markets, construction, transportation and
agriculture must adapt to achieve long-term emission reductions,
the committee said today in an e-mailed statement. Reductions so
far in U.K. carbon emissions reflect the recession, which sapped
production from power stations and factories, the group said.  
 “The recession has created the illusion that progress is
being made to reduce emissions,” committee chairman  Adair Turner  said in the statement. “We are repeating our call for
new policy approaches to drive the required step change,” said
Turner, a member of the House of Lords.  
 The commission may suggest a more-ambitious target to cut
emissions by 42 percent from 1990 levels by 2020 because of the
recession. This move will be reviewed in the next report, the
statement said. The current U.K. emission-reduction target is at
34 percent. Britain is the only country to set legally binding
targets through 2050 under its  Climate Change Act .  
 Chris Huhne , the U.K’s secretary of state for energy and
climate change, said the nation can’t rely on the recession to
cut emissions. “There has to be an enduring shift to low
carbon, driving growth in new technologies, and it must be
locked into the fabric of our economy in good times and bad,”
he said in an e-mailed statement in response to the report
from the committee.  
 The government accepted advice last April from the
committee and laid out the nation’s first “ carbon budgets ,”
requiring a 34 percent cut on average from 1990 levels in the
four years from 2018 through 2022. The government aims for an 80
percent reduction in CO2 by 2050.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Airlie  in London via 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        