-- U.K. Accountants Must Improve Bank Audits, FSA Says
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-06-29T16:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/u-k-auditors-should-pay-more-attention-to-bank-bias-regulators-say.html

          
          
             The  Financial Services Authority 
said bank auditors must pay more attention to possible
management bias in the banking industry after accounting firms
failed to uncover problems before the financial crisis.  
 The regulator is examining ways to improve cooperation
between banks, auditors and supervisors as part of a joint study
with the U.K.’s accounting regulator, the  Financial Reporting
Council , the groups said in a joint statement today.  
 “Our experience has indicated that, at times, auditors
have focused too much on gathering and accepting evidence to
support firms’ assertions rather than exercising sufficient
professional skepticism in their approach,” Paul Sharma, an FSA
director, said in the statement. “This falls far short of what
the FSA, and society at large, expects from auditors.”  
 Bad bets by U.K. securities firms led to government
bailouts of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  and Northern Rock Plc during the crisis. The FSA said
investors lost confidence in banks’ financial reporting during
the early stages of the credit crunch because they didn’t
reflect the reality of emerging problems.  
 Richard Sexton, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s U.K. chief of
assurance, said auditors and regulators have lessons to learn
from the financial crisis and that accounting firms take a
different view of what “professional skepticism” means.  
 ‘Robust Evidence’  
 “We view our role as one of ensuring management has
appropriate, robust evidence to support its assumptions,”
Sexton said today in a statement. “It is not for us to present
an alternative view and try to get management to accept it as
better than theirs.”  
 A Treasury committee in January 2009 found “little
evidence to suggest that auditors failed in their duties in the
run up to the financial crisis,” Michael Izza, chief executive
officer of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in  England  and
 Wales , said in a statement today.  
 “As a profession, we are learning the lessons from the
crisis and asking ourselves ‘how does the current audit model
need to evolve to meet changing market needs?’” Izza said in
the statement.  
 The FSA will publish specific proposals later based on
responses from interested parties that will be accepted until
Sept. 29.  
 Stephen Haddrill, the FRC’s chief executive officer, said
there have already been “significant” improvements in bank
disclosures of risks and uncertainties in financial statements.  
 ‘Management’s Judgements’  
 “These improvements should have been achieved earlier and
with less intervention,” Haddrill said in the statement.
“Investors have a right to expect a more robust approach from
auditors in challenging management’s judgments.”  
 The FSA has been criticized for failing to stop the
financial crisis through tough regulation. The coalition
government this month announced plans to scrap the agency and
consolidate regulation under the  Bank of England .  
 The FRC is examining possible accounting problems before
the crisis. Earlier this month, it said it was probing how Ernst
& Young LLP accounted for Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s off-
balance-sheet transactions in the U.K. in late 2007 and 2008.  
 The investigation covers so-called Repo 105 transactions,
which helped Lehman downplay its leverage, according to a 2,200-
page report on the bank’s collapse.  
 Ernst & Young declined to immediately comment on today’s
report. The firm has said it will cooperate with the FRC probe
and has denied any wrongdoing.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        