-- Lawmakers Vow to Fix Technical Error on Trading in Financial Overhaul Bill
-- Matthew Leising
-- 2010-06-29T13:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/u-s-lawmakers-vow-to-close-financial-reform-bill-s-swap-trading-loophole.html

          
          
             U.S. lawmakers vowed to fix a
technical error in the  financial overhaul bill  that could exempt
more than 90 percent of swaps from new trading mandates if not
corrected.  
 The legislation, approved last week by a House and Senate
conference committee, requires swaps that are to be sent to
clearinghouses to trade on exchanges or swap execution
facilities. The definition of swap execution facility only
refers to “security-based swaps,” a segment of the  $615
trillion  in private derivatives that totals no more than 5
percent of the market.  
 “This is a mistake that we have caught and it will be
fixed,” said  Steve Adamske , spokesman for the House Financial
Services Committee, whose Chairman,  Barney Frank , Democrat of
Massachusetts, presided over the conference committee
negotiations. The bill’s language will be changed before the
House and Senate vote on the measure this week, Adamske said.  
 If unchanged, a swap execution facility would capture “a
very small fraction” of trades in the market, said  Craig Pirrong , a finance professor at the University of Houston.
“Only about 8 percent of the notional value would have to go
through a SEF and the bulk of the business -- interest rates and
foreign exchange -- would not.”  
 Congress is scheduled to vote this week on the sweeping
changes to bank regulations after the collapse of the housing
market caused the worst recession since the 1930s and the loss
of more than 8 million U.S. jobs.  
 Goal of Overhaul  
 The legislation would regulate private derivatives for the
first time after the market complicated efforts to solve the
crisis as regulators couldn’t easily determine how
interconnected banks had become through their trades.  
 A main aim of the bill is to require standardized interest-
rate, credit-default and other swaps to be traded on exchanges
or swap execution facilities before being guaranteed by
clearinghouses, which are intended to lessen the effects of a
bank default by guaranteeing counterparty payment. The use of
clearinghouses is meant to lessen the systemic risk from banks,
hedge funds and other investors that use the market.  
 By mandating that standardized trades be done on exchanges
or swap execution facilities, regulators and members of Congress
are trying to improve the price transparency of the OTC market,
which now is mostly conducted between two people over the phone.
Prices for interest-rate swaps aren’t publicly available, for
example.  
 Security-Based Swaps  
 Security-based swaps are defined in the legislation as
those that reference “a narrow-based securities index,” a
single security such as a corporate bond or “an event relating
to a single issuer of a security.” Single-name credit-swaps, or
those that reference corporations such as Ford Motor Co. or
Exxon Mobil Corp., had a notional value of $21.9 trillion,
according to the Bank for International Settlements, and are the
largest part of what would be defined as security-based swaps.  
 Equity derivatives, which also would be categorized as
security-based swaps, totaled $6.6 trillion in notional value at
the end of 2009, according to BIS. Together, the credit-default
and equity swaps comprise 6.4 percent of the OTC derivatives
market, according to BIS. Yet not all of those contracts are
standardized or traded frequently enough to be processed by a
clearinghouse.  
 The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission will have
jurisdiction to regulate security-based swaps under the
legislation.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        