-- U.S. Exchanges Said to Seek Broader Scope for Trading Curbs
-- Nina Mehta
-- 2010-06-29T13:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/u-s-exchanges-said-to-seek-broader-scope-for-stock-trading-restrictions.html

          
          
             U.S. stock exchanges will propose
doubling the number of companies covered by a two-week-old test
of trading curbs and expanding the  program  to include hundreds
of exchange-traded funds, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the matter.  
 NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. will ask the
Securities and Exchange Commission to broaden circuit breakers
triggered by 10 percent moves to Russell 1000 Index companies
from those in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , according to the
people, who declined to be identified because the information
isn’t public. More than 300 ETFs including the SPDR S&P 500 ETF
Trust would be covered, one of the people said.  
 Regulators are seeking to prevent declines in one or more
securities from causing panic among investors, prompting a
cascade of losses across markets. During the May 6 rout that
erased $862 billion in value from U.S. equities in less than 20
minutes, ETFs and companies such as Accenture Plc fell as much
as 99 percent. The SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission
said the plunge may have been fueled by curbs that applied on
some venues and not others.  
 “It makes sense to expand the pilot to ETFs and other
stocks traded by a broad universe of investors,” said  Edward Johnsen , a partner in the securities regulation practice at law
firm Winston & Strawn LLP in New York and former head of
equities compliance at Deutsche Bank Securities, a unit of
Deutsche Bank AG. “I’d expect the SEC to eventually add all
National Market System securities so they’re all covered by the
same rule and the same process.”  
 NYSE, Nasdaq  
 Securities in the National Market System are companies or
ETFs listed on the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Arca and NYSE
Amex -- all owned by  NYSE Euronext  -- or  Nasdaq OMX ’s Nasdaq
Stock Market. They can be traded on venues including public
markets and private platforms known as dark pools.  
 The SEC is testing the program that pauses trading for 5
minutes in S&P 500 companies when their stock rises or falls at
least 10 percent in less than 5 minutes after 9:45 a.m. New York
time.  
 John Heine , a spokesman for the SEC in Washington, declined
to comment on the exchanges’ plans for the program, which lasts
through December.  Eric Ryan , a spokesman at NYSE Euronext,
declined to comment, as did  Robert Madden  of Nasdaq OMX.  
 One Trigger  
 The curbs have been triggered once: by  Washington Post Co. 
when it surged 99 percent in less than one second on June 16.
The orders, which drove it up to $929.18 from $462.84, prompted
a five-minute halt. Later, the trades were canceled. Yesterday,
New York-based NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX voided orders that
sent shares of Boeing Co., the Chicago-based aircraft maker
that’s one of thirty Dow Jones Industrial Average stocks, down
44 percent at 7:14 a.m. New York time.  
 During the May 6 drop, almost 20,800 trades that were at
least 60 percent away from the market price when the plunge
began were later canceled. ETFs accounted for 70 percent of the
securities with trades on May 6 that were later voided by
exchanges. SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said the SEC would
continue to examine trading issues involving ETFs to determine
why those securities were among the most affected that day.  
 ETF Dislocations  
 CME Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Craig Donohue  said
June 22 that curbs on ETFs tracking a large portion of the
market could cause dislocations given that their prices are
derived from underlying baskets of stocks and are linked to
equity-index futures, which may continue trading while the ETF
is paused. CME, based in Chicago, runs the world’s biggest
futures exchange.  
 Donohue’s concern highlights the “need for more
coordination between instruments that have similar types of
exposure to the market but trade in different asset classes,”
said  Adam Sussman , director of research at Tabb Group LLC, a
financial services research firm in New York. “There needs to
be coordination so liquidity pressure doesn’t just move from the
equities market to the futures market,” he said.  
 He endorsed the expansion of curbs beyond the S&P 500.  
 “Most people want to see the circuit breakers more broadly
applied so they’re not just for the most liquid stocks but also
those that are less liquid,” Sussman said. “Some of the more
dramatic price moves on May 6” were by less-traded companies,
he added.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro makes opening remarks at a panel discussion in Washington. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
