-- U.S. Espionage Claims Recall Cold War `Spy Mania,' Russia Says
-- Ilya Arkhipov
-- 2010-06-29T17:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/u-s-espionage-claims-recall-cold-war-spy-mania-russian-government-says.html

          
          
             The U.S. Justice Department’s claims
that it broke up a Russian spy ring are “regrettable” and
reminiscent of the Cold War at a time when relations are
improving, Russia’s Foreign Ministry said.  
 “Such actions are completely unfounded and serve unseemly
goals,” the ministry said today on its  website . The allegations
are “in the spirit of cold war spy mania,” according to the
statement.  
 Ten alleged members of a “long-term, deep-cover” Russian
spy ring have been arrested on the U.S. East Coast, the Justice
Department said yesterday. The suspects, who are accused of
seeking to infiltrate U.S. policy-making circles, face charges
including conspiring to act as illegal Russian agents and to
commit money laundering.  
 The arrests were announced less than a week after Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  visited Washington as a part of a
“reset” in relations the U.S. initiated last year. President
 Barack Obama  has made a nuclear arms control treaty, which still
requires Senate ratification, the centerpiece of improved ties.  
 Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who met with former U.S.
President  Bill Clinton  today at his residence outside Moscow,
joked that Clinton had come at the right time because police in
America were “out of control, throwing people into jail.”  
 “I truly expect that everything positive that we’ve
accumulated recently in the inter-state relationship will not be
affected by recent events,” Putin said during an exchange shown
on state television. “I very much hope that people that cherish
Russia-U.S. relationships understand that.”  
 Damage to Reset  
 While the spy scandal won’t necessarily affect the Obama
administration’s position on Russia, it could push some senators
to vote against the new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, said
 Fyodor Lukyanov , editor of  Russia in Global Affairs  magazine.  
 “If this becomes the reason for the non-ratification of
the new START treaty, it will seriously damage the reset,”
Lukyanov said. Since arms control is linked to other issues,
failure to ratify the accord may also affect missile defense
talks and cooperation on Iran’s nuclear program, he said.  
 Russia will probably wait before reacting with a reciprocal
move because the situation is unclear and tit-for-tat actions
would only confirm the validity of the charges, Lukyanov said.  
 The timing of the Justice Department’s announcement shows
that there are “hawks” in the U.S. security services opposed
to better relations, said  Alexei Malashenko , an analyst with the
Carnegie Moscow Center.  
 “There is no way to stop the reset as long as Obama is in
power,” Malashenko said. “But a scandal like this is meant to
show Americans that Russians are untrustworthy and that
confrontation continues.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The arrests were announced less than a week after Russian President Dmitry Medvedev visited Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
