-- Russia, U.S. Propose Iran Talks on Fuel for Nuclear Reactor, Lavrov Says
-- Ali Sheikholeslami
-- 2010-06-29T11:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/u-s-russia-offer-iran-talks-on-supply-of-fuel-for-reactor-lavrov-says.html

          
          
             Russia and the U.S. offered to hold
talks with Iran on the provision of nuclear fuel for its Tehran
medical reactor, Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said.  
 Iran wants to enrich uranium to the 20 percent
concentration needed for a reactor because it hasn’t been able
to get imported fuel, Lavrov told reporters today in Jerusalem.
Iran said today it will continue to enrich uranium to 20 percent
for the reactor, though only when needed. The United Nations
Security Council imposed a fourth round of sanctions on Iran
June 9 over its nuclear development.  
 “I very much hope that Iran will agree to this and this
will give an opportunity to prevent the deterioration of the
situation,” Lavrov said. Russia and the U.S. consulted the UN’s
 International Atomic Energy Agency  before proposing the
negotiations, which are aimed at eliminating the need for Iran
to enrich its own uranium, he said.  
 The Security Council left open the possibility of
diplomatic talks to resolve the impasse over Iran’s nuclear
program after imposing the latest sanctions. Iran rejects
allegations that the atomic work may be hiding a weapons
program, saying the technology is for civilian purposes such as
power generation and the production of medical isotopes. It has
rebuffed Security Council demands to suspend uranium enrichment.  
 “The fuel of 20 percent concentration has a specific
use,” Iranian Foreign Minister  Manouchehr Mottaki  was cited as
saying today by the state-run  Islamic Republic News Agency . “We
will produce it when we need it, and will stop production when
we don’t.”  
 Nuclear Trade  
 The sanctions prohibit nuclear trade with Iran except where
Iran can prove to the UN that the transactions aren’t intended
for activities banned under the international Non-Proliferation
Treaty.  
 President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said yesterday in a televised
news conference that his country prefers to buy fuel for the
Tehran reactor because enrichment to 20 percent is costly. Four
new reactors are being designed, he said, without elaborating.  
 By September 2011, Iran will begin operating a plant to
convert its 20 percent uranium into fuel to run the Tehran
reactor, Vice President  Ali Akbar Salehi , who heads Iran’s
atomic agency, said June 23. Under a proposed international deal
brokered by Turkey and Brazil on May 17, Iran had said it would
swap some of its 3.5 percent-enriched uranium for imported fuel
to run the reactor.  
 While Iran has proved it can enrich uranium to 20 percent,
it doesn’t own the patented technology needed to package the
heavy metal for use inside the Tehran reactor. The uranium needs
to be put inside unique fuel panels that fit the reactor, built
by San Diego, California-based General Atomics in 1967.  
 Iran’s timeline for a plant to produce its own fuel panels
is “rather optimistic,” and the reactor may run out before an
Iranian-made supply is available,  Paul Ingram , executive
director of the London-based British American Security
Information Council, said in a June 23 phone interview.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ali Sheikholeslami  in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net ;
 Gwen Ackerman  at  gackerman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        