-- U.S. Negotiators Agree to End TARP to Pay for Financial Bill
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-06-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/u-s-house-senate-negotiators-agree-to-end-tarp-to-pay-for-financial-bill.html

          
          
             Democratic lawmakers cleared the way
for final votes in the House and Senate on the U.S. financial-
regulatory bill after reconvening to make a fix requested by
Republican senators, who objected to charging banks and hedge
funds $19 billion to help pay for the measure.  
 House and Senate negotiators who last week merged each
chamber’s version of the bill agreed yesterday to change the
financing, offsetting the costs with an early end to the
Troubled Asset Relief Program. They also decided to raise the
level of a fund managed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
used to insure bank deposits and supported through fees on the
banking industry.  
 The action means the House and Senate are likely to pass
the biggest rewrite of Wall Street rules since the 1930s.
Republicans who supported an earlier version of the bill had
said they would vote no if the bank fee was included.  
 “Because there was a reaction to it, we tried to come up
with an alternative idea that would reduce those concerns and
allow for us to meet the obligations of this bill,” Senate
Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut
Democrat who led the talks, said yesterday at the start of the
meeting of negotiators.  
 House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank , a
Massachusetts Democrat, said the House is likely to vote today
on the bill. Dodd said it was “probably doubtful” the Senate
would vote this week because of the death of Senator  Robert Byrd , a West Virginia Democrat. Byrd’s body will lie in state in
the Senate chamber on July 1 and a memorial service will be held
in Charleston, West Virginia, on July 2.  
 July Break  
 Congress has a break next week. The delay means that final
passage of the bill and the signature of President  Barack Obama 
will likely take place in the middle of July.  
 “The leaders certainly told me that this would be the
first priority on a return from the July 4 break,” Dodd told
reporters after the meeting.  
 The fee would have been imposed on banks with more than $50
billion in assets and hedge funds with more than $10 billion in
assets. Byrd’s death left Democrats in need of all four
Republicans who previously backed the measure, or three
Republicans if Senator  Maria Cantwell , a Washington Democrat,
decided to switch her vote and support the bill. One of those
Republicans, Senator  Scott Brown  of Massachusetts, withdrew his
support yesterday, citing the fee.  
 “It’s a mistake not to make them pay,” Frank said of the
hedge funds. “I’m puzzled that my Republican friends wanted to
come to the rescue of large financial institutions over $50
billion and hedge funds over $10 billion.”  
 TARP  
 At the meeting, lawmakers agreed to end TARP by reducing
its authority from $700 billion to $475 billion and banning TARP
repayments from being recycled into new obligations. The change
would yield a savings of $11 billion.  
 The $11 billion represents the amount the government
estimates wouldn’t be repaid if more TARP money were spent,
Frank told reporters after the meeting.  
 Congress approved TARP in October 2008 to safeguard the
U.S. banking system against the financial crisis. The funds were
extended to American International Group Inc., Citigroup Inc.,
Bank of America Corp., the auto industry and other financial
firms. Lawmakers have said that public outrage at the bailout
pushed them to strengthen the regulatory bill.  
 The House-Senate conferees also agreed yesterday to
increase the level of funds the FDIC is required by law to hold
in reserves to insure bank customer deposits. The FDIC would
increase its so-called reserve ratio from 1.15 percent to 1.35
percent, or $1.35 for every $100 in deposits. Banks with less
than $10 billion in assets won’t pay for the increase. The
change will produce a savings of $5.7 billion in the bill, a
Dodd aide said.  
 Bair Letter  
 FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  expressed support for the
increase in the reserve ratio in a letter yesterday to
lawmakers. She wrote that the ratio hit a low of negative 0.39
percent at the end of 2009.  
 “Given this experience, we believe it is clear that as the
economy strengthens and the banking system heals, the reserve
ratio needs to be increased,” Bair wrote.  
 Senator  Richard Shelby , an Alabama Republican, called
yesterday’s changes a “budget gimmick.”  
 Senator  Judd Gregg , a New Hampshire Republican, offered an
amendment to offset the cost with unspent stimulus funds. The
amendment failed.  
 The regulatory package will create a consumer protection
agency at the Federal Reserve, give the government more
authority to unwind failing financial firms and impose new
requirements on over-the-counter derivatives markets and the
banks that oversee these trades. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and
commodities, or linked to specific events such as changes in
interest rates or the weather.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Senator Judd Gregg, a New Hampshire Republican, discusses his opposition to the Democrats' strategy to finance the U.S. financial regulation bill. 
     Democratic lawmakers cleared the way for final votes in the House and Senate on the U.S. financial-regulatory bill after reconvening to make a fix requested by Republican senators, who objected to charging banks and hedge funds $19 billion to help pay for the measure. Gregg speaks with Peter Cook on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With Betty Liu.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
