-- Court Grants Speedy Hearing for U.S. on Drill Ban
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-06-29T19:16:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/u-s-will-get-expedited-hearing-in-bid-to-maintain-deepwater-drilling-ban.html

          
          
             A federal appeals court granted the
U.S. an expedited hearing on its request to delay enforcement of
a judge’s order overturning a ban on deep-water drilling.  
 The appeals court today scheduled the hearing for July 8
and told lawyers for the companies that successfully challenged
the ban in a lower court to file responses to the government’s
request by July 2.  
 “If it can be filed earlier, the court would appreciate
that,” the court said in a letter to attorneys posted on its
website. “No extension will be granted.”  
 The government is seeking to delay an order by U.S.
District Judge  Martin Feldman  that scrapped the six-month
drilling ban, imposed May 27 after the explosion and sinking of
the Deepwater Horizon oil rig in April. President  Barack Obama 
said the moratorium, covering waters deeper than 500 feet, was
needed to give a presidential commission time to study offshore
operations safety as the BP Plc oil spill became the largest in
U.S. history.  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and other oil service
companies had sued U.S. regulators, including Interior Secretary
 Kenneth Salazar , arguing the drilling suspension would cause
them irreparable economic harm.  
 ‘Overly Broad’  
 Feldman ruled June 22 that the measure was overly broad and
two days later denied a U.S. request to put his order on hold
while regulators appealed. The U.S. filed notice of appeal June
23. On June 25, the government asked the U.S. Court of Appeals
in New Orleans to stay the order.  
 “The district court committed legal error and abused its
discretion in issuing its preliminary injunction order,”
government lawyer Sambhav Sankar said in a June 25 appeals court
filing seeking a stay. The moratorium is essential to ensure
public safety and further investigation is needed before it
should be lifted, the government argued.  
 Government lawyers told Feldman the ban was based on
findings in a U.S. report after the sinking of the Deepwater
Horizon rig, owned by  Transocean Ltd. , off the Louisiana coast.  
 Feldman responded in his 22-page opinion that “the court is
unable to divine or fathom a relationship between the findings
and the immense scope of the moratorium.”  
 ‘Blanket Moratorium’  
 “The blanket moratorium, with no parameters, seems to
assume that because one rig failed and although no one yet fully
knows why, all companies and rigs drilling new wells over 500
feet also universally present an imminent danger,” he said.  
 The judge “profoundly misunderstood the problem,” the
government told the appeals court in its request for a stay.
“Until Interior can implement regulations to address newly
identified deep-water drilling concerns, rig-by-rig compliance
reviews under an outdated regime cannot ensure safety.”  
 The appeals court didn’t require government attorneys to
file more arguments in its letter to lawyers today.  
 “Any further filings by either side will be by leave of
court,” according to the letter. Each side will be allowed 30
minutes for oral argument, the court said.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar, 2:10-
cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans). The appeal case is 10-30585, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Court Grants Speedy Hearing for U.S. on Drill Ban  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Ken Salazar, U.S. interior secretary, speaks during a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing on the federal response to the recent Gulf of Mexico oil spill in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Ken Salazar, U.S. interior secretary, speaks during a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing on the federal response to the recent Gulf of Mexico oil spill in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
