-- Consumer Confidence in U.S. Fell More Than Forecast
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-06-29T21:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/u-s-consumer-confidence-falls-more-than-forecast-on-labor-market-outlook.html

          
          
             Confidence among U.S. consumers sank
in June more than forecast as Americans became distressed over
the outlook for jobs and incomes.  
 The Conference Board’s  confidence  index slumped to 52.9
this month, below the lowest forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, from a revised 62.7 in May, figures from the New
York-based private research group showed today. Sentiment fell
most in regions affected by the oil spill.  
 Stocks plunged as the confidence data, combined with
Conference Board figures showing China’s economic outlook
improved less than previously estimated, added to concern the
global economy is slowing. Unemployment and the turmoil in
financial markets precipitated by the European debt crisis raise
the risk that household spending will falter.  
 “What we need are consistent job gains, not just a month
or two,” said  Richard DeKaser , chief economist at Woodley Park
Research in Washington, whose confidence forecast was the lowest
of those surveyed. “Until we get that, I don’t think we’re
going to see any gains in consumer confidence.”  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  closed at its lowest level
since October 2009, and the yield on 10-year Treasury notes fell
below 3 percent for the first time in more than a year. The S&P
500 decreased 3.1 percent to close at 1041.24. The 10-year
Treasury note’s yield slid to 2.95 percent at 5:05 p.m. in New
York.  
 Oil-Spill Effect  
 The biggest declines in confidence were in regions that
include Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida, the Gulf
Coast states that are suffering through the worst oil spill in
U.S. history. The April 20 well blowout that destroyed the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig and killed 11 of its crew has
polluted beaches and caused job losses along the Gulf Coast.  
 Home prices in 20 U.S. cities rose in April from a year
earlier as sales got a boost from a tax credit aimed at reviving
the industry that triggered the worst recession since the 1930s,
another report showed.  
 The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values climbed 3.8
percent from April 2009, the biggest year-over-year gain since
September 2006, the group said today in New York. The increase
exceeded the median forecast of economists surveyed.  
 “ As the tax credit is unwound and sales are plunging, the
pricing environment is once again weakening,” said  John Herrmann , senior fixed-income strategist at State Street Global
Markets LLC in Boston.  
 Last Expansion  
 The  median forecast  of 71 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected the consumer confidence index would fall to 62.5
from a prior reading of 63.3 in May. Estimates ranged from 59.5
to 65. Last’s month’s level was the highest in two years and the
index averaged 97 during the expansion that ended in December
2007.  
 The group’s measure of  present conditions  decreased to 25.5
in June from 29.8 a month earlier. The gauge of  expectations  for
the next six months dropped to 71.2 from 84.6. Both gauges were
the lowest in three months.  
 Some companies are seeing consumers pull back on purchases.
 Best Buy Co. , the world’s largest consumer-electronics retailer,
this month reported first-quarter profit that rose less than
analysts projected as some U.S. shoppers bought fewer games and
movies.  
 Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. , a Union, New Jersey-based home-
accessory retailer, this month forecast fiscal second-quarter
and annual earnings that trailed analysts’ estimates.  
 More Pressure  
 “While it appears that the economic environment may be
stabilizing, persistent high unemployment and uncertainty in the
economy could continue to pressure the consumer and affect their
spending,”  Steven H. Temares , the company’s chief executive
officer, said on a June 23 conference call with analysts.  
 The percent of consumers projecting more jobs to become
available in the next six months and the proportion who expected
their incomes to rise declined, today’s report showed.  
 While the U.S. has created jobs every month this year,
companies in May added the fewest number of workers in four
months, according to figures from the Labor Department. The
jobless rate was at 9.7 percent last month, compared with a 26-
year high of 10.1 percent reached in October.  
 “Increasing uncertainty and apprehension about the future
state of the economy and labor market, no doubt a result of the
recent slowdown in job growth, are the primary reasons for the
sharp reversal in confidence,”  Lynn Franco , director of the
Conference Board Consumer Research Center, said in a statement.
“Until the pace of job growth picks up, consumer confidence is
not likely to pick up.”  
 Buying Plans  
 Consumers’ plans to buy automobiles, appliances and homes
declined in June, with the percentage of people who said they
intend to buy a car dropping to the lowest since records began
in 1967, today’s report showed. Vacation plans also fell.  
 The Conference Board compiles the data from a
representative sample of 5,000 American households. The survey
cutoff date for today’s report was June 22, the group said.  
 Americans under the age of 35 and those making from $15,000
to $24,999 a year saw the biggest decreases in confidence this
month.  
 Today’s confidence report ran counter to the final reading
of the Thomson Reuters/University of  Michigan index , which
showed its confidence measure climbed to a two-year high this
month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A man walks with a Macy's shopping bag in New York. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                         June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Confidence among U.S. consumers declined in June more than forecast as Americans turned pessimistic about the outlook for the labor market and the economy. The Conference Board’s confidence index slumped to 52.9 this month from a revised 62.7 in May, figures from the New York-based private research group showed today. Bloomberg's Mike McKee reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
