-- U.S. Allocates as Much as $24 Million in Grants for Algae Biofuel Projects
-- Andrew Herndon
-- 2010-06-29T02:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/u-s-allocates-as-much-as-24-million-in-grants-for-algae-biofuel-projects.html

          
          
                  June 29 (Bloomberg New Energy Finance) -- The 
U.S.  Department of Energy  will award as much as $24
million in new grants to three research projects aimed
at commercializing biofuels derived from algae.  
 The projects will be carried out by three groups that
include partners from academia, national laboratories and
private companies, according to a statement from the department.  
 The Sustainable Algal Biofuels Consortium of Mesa, Arizona,
led by Arizona State University, will receive as much as $6
million to evaluate algal biofuels as replacements for
petroleum-based fuels. Research will investigate biochemical
conversion of algae to fuels and products, as well as chemistry
properties of algal fuels and fuel intermediates.  
 The University of California, San Diego, will lead the
Consortium for Algal Biofuels Commercialisation, which the
Energy Department said will focus on developing algae as a
“robust biofuels feedstock.” The project will be supported by
as much as $9 million in grant money.  
 Cellana, a joint venture formed in 2007 between  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc  and HR BioPetroleum Inc., will lead a third consortium
based in Hawaii that will receive as much as $9 million. The
group will research large-scale production of fuels and feed
from microalgae grown in seawater. Specifically, the partners
will work to integrate new algal harvesting techniques with
pilot-scale “cultivation test beds,” the department said.
Researchers will also focus on developing marine microalgae to
be used as animal feed in the aquaculture industry.  
 Stimulus Funding  
 HR BioPetroleum  is already participating in another algae
biofuels research project led by the Donald Danforth Plant
Science Centre of St. Louis, Missouri, that was awarded $44
million in stimulus funding from the energy department in
January 2010.  
 HR BioPetroleum is also taking part in an Energy
Department-funded project led by Honeywell International Inc.’s
UOP unit in Hawaii. The pilot project will integrate UOP’s
hydroconversion technology with a biomass pyrolysis technology
developed by Ensyn Corp. In December 2009, the Energy Department
picked the project to negotiate a stimulus-funded grant award of
as much as $25 million.  
 The pilot is expected to start up in 2014 and will use
Ensyn’s “rapid thermal processing technology” to convert
various forms of waste biomass including algae into bio-oils
that will be upgraded by UOP at a refinery in Kapolei owned by
Tesoro Corp. The facility will have the capacity to churn out
approximately 61,320 gallons (232,402 liters) of green gasoline,
diesel and jet fuels per year, according to the Energy
Department. Cargill Inc., Boeing Co., General Motors Co., and
Michigan Technological University are also participating in the
effort.  
 To contact the reporter of this story:
 Andrew Herndon  at  at  aherndon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        