-- Bomb Dogs, Bag Checks to Greet Northeast Commuters
-- Chris Dolmetsch
-- 2010-06-29T14:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/u-s-new-york-police-deployed-to-grand-central-penn-station-for-exercise.html

          
          
             Commuters from Boston to Washington
may notice bomb-sniffing dogs, random bag checks and more police
this week as law enforcement agencies conduct security and
terror drills at Northeast U.S. transit hubs in preparation for
the July 4th holiday weekend.  
 The  Transportation Security Administration  is deploying
personnel to transit stations in the Northeast during morning
and evening rush hours this week, through the July 4
Independence Day holiday in the U.S., along with Amtrak police,
and federal, state, local and transit law-enforcement officers.  
 The surge is part of Operation RAIL SAFE, an alliance that
works to coordinate resources for responses to rail and transit
emergencies throughout the U.S., and isn’t in response to a
particular threat or incident, the TSA said in a statement
yesterday.  
 The New York City Police Department today deployed about
100 officers at four locations in Manhattan as part of the
operation, said  Paul Browne , a department spokesman:
Pennsylvania Station, the nation’s busiest passenger rail
station; Grand Central Terminal; Herald Square and the Port
Authority Bus Terminal.  
 Joint Effort  
 On July 2, before the holiday weekend, the NYPD will
conduct a surge at major transit hubs during the afternoon and
evening rush hours with personnel from Amtrak; the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority; the National Guard; New Jersey
Transit; the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey; and the
TSA, Browne said.  
 “This is something the NYPD does multiple times throughout
the year to include other agencies and maximize police
visibility in mass transit,” Browne said in an e-mail.  
 U.S. markets are closed July 5 for the Independence Day
holiday.  
 The NYPD and Amtrak in 2005 established a coalition to
improve security along the national passenger railroad’s tracks
between New York and Washington, and the department also began
random bag checks on the city’s subways following the London
transit bombings in July that year, Browne said. The New York
subway system is the busiest in the U.S.  
 Law enforcement agencies in Boston, Philadelphia,
Baltimore, Washington and Newark, New Jersey, will conduct
similar patrols in their cities’ transit hubs, Browne said. The
drill is the second Operation RAIL SAFE exercise this year, he
said. RAIL SAFE is an acronym for Regional Alliance Including
Local, State and Federal Efforts.  
 The operation includes activities such as increased station
patrols, more officers on trains, sweeps with bomb-sniffing dogs
and random passenger bag inspections at unannounced locations,
the administration said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        