-- Hulu Starts Paid Web Service With ABC, Fox, NBC Shows
-- Sarah Rabil
-- 2010-06-29T23:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/hulu-s-paid-service-to-offer-abc-fox-nbc-shows-on-tv-phones-computers.html

          
          
             Hulu LLC , the website owned by three
of the biggest U.S. broadcast networks, announced a paid service
called Hulu Plus that provides the current and past seasons of
programs on computers, cell phones and TV sets.  
 The service costs $9.99 a month and offers shows including
“Grey’s Anatomy” and “The Office” from ABC, NBC and Fox,
three of Hulu’s owners, on select Web-connected Samsung TVs and
on Apple Inc.’s iPhone and iPad devices on Wi-Fi networks, the
Los Angeles-based company said today on its  website .  
 Hulu, which lets computer users watch previously broadcast
shows for free and sells advertising, is making the paid service
available on TV sets and mobile devices to draw bigger audiences
and garner more revenue for its Internet programming. Hollywood
studios are seeking new sources of revenue without upsetting
relationships with cable and satellite TV providers.  
 “It’s a delicate balance between driving incremental
revenue and disrupting an incredibly profitable, highly reliable
revenue stream,” said  David Bank , an analyst at RBC Capital
Markets in New York. “You want to get incremental revenue from
these new types of over-the-top services, but you don’t want to
alienate your traditional distribution ecosystem.”  
 The service is designed to complement, not replace, a
satellite or cable TV subscription,  Jason Kilar , Hulu’s chief
executive officer, said in an interview.  
 “Hulu Plus is something entirely different,” Kilar said.
“It provides access in a convenient way to media, but it’s not
a substitute.”  
 Game Consoles  
 The closely held company said the service will be available
soon on  Sony Corp. ’s PlayStation 3 video-game console and Bravia
TVs,  Microsoft Corp. ’s Xbox 360 and Blu-ray players from Vizio.  
 The free version of Hulu will continue to provide the five
most-recent episodes of shows such as “30 Rock” and “Family
Guy,” the company said.  
 During the preview phase, Hulu Plus subscriptions will be
offered by invitation only, according to the website. A version
could be widely available in time for the September start of the
new broadcast television season, Kilar said.  
 The company also is in talks to add shows from  CBS Corp. ,
 Viacom Inc.  and  Time Warner Inc.  to the website’s subscription
service, people with direct knowledge of the discussions said.  
 “We have conversations with everyone all the time,” Kilar
said. “Hulu Plus, in addition to Hulu, is an incredibly
attractive thing if you’re a content owner looking for return on
investment.”  
 Hulu was founded in 2007 by  General Electric Co. ’s NBC
Universal and  News Corp. ’s  Fox. Walt Disney Co. ’s ABC and
private-equity firm Providence Equity Partners Inc. are also
investors.  
 Kilar said he sees a role for Hulu in cable and satellite-
TV providers’ plans for TV Everywhere, a system that allows
subscribers to watch shows online at no additional cost. Hulu
could provide an easy way for customers of pay-TV companies to
verify their subscribers, he said.  
 “Hulu has a lot of experience in this area,” Kilar said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        