-- Munich Re's Ergo Division to Surpass 2010 International Premium Forecast
-- Oliver Suess
-- 2010-06-29T13:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/munich-re-s-ergo-division-to-surpass-2010-international-premium-forecast.html

          
          
             Munich Re ’s primary insurance unit,
 Ergo Versicherungsgruppe , will exceed a premium forecast for its
international business and said it’s in advanced talks to sell
life policies in India and China.  
 “We are well under way to reach about 4 billion euros
($4.9 billion) in total premiums this year,” said  Jochen Messemer , management board member responsible for the insurer’s
international operations. That beats the 3.9 billion-euro target
set by Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer, in a March
 report  for the squeeze-out of Ergo’s minority shareholders.  
 “Profitability is clearly a priority,” Messemer, 44, said
in an interview. “We stick to our target to return to positive
earnings at the international unit this year, if no
extraordinary effects influence the results.”  
 Ergo, Germany’s second-biggest primary insurer, in March
forecast a pretax profit of 92.7 million euros this year at the
international unit, after a loss of 74.2 million euros in 2009.
The Dusseldorf-based company, which generates a fifth of gross
written premiums from outside its home market, is focusing its
international expansion on Europe and Asia, Messemer said.  
 Premium income of at least 4.5 billion euros in 2012 and
more than 100 million euros in pretax profit from 2011 is
“achievable,” he said.  
 Messemer sees a 50 percent chance of success for talks that
are in an “advanced stage” to find a partner for a joint
venture to sell life insurance in China. The plan is to start
selling coverage in the Shandong province, he said.  
 Indian Partner  
 The chances of finding a new partner in India within the
next few months “are even better,” said Messemer, after New
Delhi-based Hero Group, the country’s biggest motorcycle maker,
withdrew from a life insurance joint-venture last year. Ergo is
currently talking with two potential partners, he said.  
 While Ergo has the option of making acquisitions to grow
its international operations, the company is “cautious” as
current deals are twice price-to-book-value, which is “too
expensive,” Messemer said.  
 “Our appetite for parts of  American International Group
Inc. ’s Asian unit is limited,” he said. “One reason is that
they are generally very well integrated and therefore hard to
separate.”  
 Prudential Plc  earlier this month failed with a $35.5
billion takeover of AIA Group Ltd., New-York-based AIG’s Asian
unit, after the London-based insurer’s shareholders balked at
the price.  
 “I’m skeptical that there would be an alternative to
selling AIA in a public offering,” said Messemer, who worked as
a partner at McKinsey & Co. before he joined Ergo in 2004.  
 Ergo’s international business includes a 90 percent stake
in Vienna-based Bank Austria Creditanstalt Versicherung AG and
68.8 percent of Seoul-based Daum Direct Auto Insurance Co. While
the insurer currently has no plans to buy out minority
investors, it would consider such a move if approached, Messemer
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        