-- United, Continental Sued in Bid to Block Merger
-- Joel Rosenblatt
-- 2010-06-29T21:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/united-continental-sued-over-claims-merger-will-create-illegal-monopoly.html

          
          
             UAL Corp.’s  United Airlines  and
 Continental Airlines Inc.  were sued over claims the companies’
proposed merger would create a monopoly, increasing fares and
costing jobs.  
 The complaint was filed today in federal court in San
Francisco by  Joseph Alioto , a lawyer who said he’s representing
U.S. consumers and small businesses. Alioto is seeking to block
the merger.  
 “We believe in competition, not combination,” Alioto said
in an interview. “The trend in this particular industry is
heading straight for monopoly.”  
 The merger will increase fares, reduce the number of
flights, diminish services such as meals and eliminate tens of
thousands of jobs, according to the complaint. The proposed
merger “substantially restrains” the competition between the
carriers for passenger service throughout the U.S. at the
expense of consumers, Alioto wrote.  
 United and Continental are seeking regulatory approval to
combine under an all-stock merger they announced May 3. The new
company would surpass Delta as the world’s biggest airline and
mesh United’s Pacific routes with Continental’s service in Latin
America and over the Atlantic.  
 ‘Best Interests’  
 “We believe this suit has no merit, and we will vigorously
defend what we strongly believe to be a transaction that is in
the best interests of Continental, its shareholders and the
flying public,”  Julie King , a spokeswoman for Continental, said
in an e-mailed statement.  
 Jean Medina, a United spokeswoman, also said the complaint
has no merit.  
 United is “cooperating with the Department of Justice as
they thoroughly review our merger, which will benefit customers
with the most comprehensive route network, connecting people
across the world and the US, including 148 small communities,”
she said in an e-mailed statement.  
 United and Continental, which reported $29 billion in
combined revenue last year, have about 700 jets in their main
fleets and employ 88,000 workers. The combined company would
keep United’s name and Chicago headquarters. The carriers have
said they will generate as much as $1.2 billion through cost
savings and revenue growth.  
 The case is Malaney v. UAL Corp., 10-2858, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in Denver at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        