-- URS May Increase Offer for Crossrail Builder Scott Wilson to Ward Off CH2M
-- Howard Mustoe
-- 2010-06-29T08:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/urs-may-increase-offer-for-crossrail-builder-scott-wilson-to-ward-off-ch2m.html

          
          
             URS Corp. , the U.S. infrastructure
services provider pursuing  Scott Wilson Group Plc , may raise its
offer for the British engineering adviser after a rival 189
million-pound ($285.5 million) bid threatened its takeover plan.  
 CH2M Hill Cos., a U.S. engineering adviser, yesterday
offered to buy Scott Wilson for 245 pence a share. That’s 17
percent more than the agreed proposal for 161 million pounds, or
210 pence a share, advanced by San Francisco-based URS. Shares
of Scott Wilson climbed 3.6 percent to 262 pence.  
 “URS has matching rights arrangements agreed with Scott
Wilson and is considering increasing its offer to 245 pence or
above,” it said in a statement today.  
 URS risks a bidding war with its Englewood, Colorado-based
rival that’s built a 13.1 percent stake in Scott Wilson and won
support of 5 percent of its investors for its offer. Scott
Wilson, which is helping design London’s Crossrail train line,
would give both companies the means to tap markets for transport
infrastructure.  
 Scott Wilson extended gains on  London’s  stock exchange
today, after more than doubling in value yesterday. The shares
traded at 258 pence as of 9 a.m., up 2 percent or 5 pence.  
 U.K. Targets  
 The emergence of CH2M as a suitor for Scott Wilson follows
a $1.5 billion bidding contest for British manufacturer Chloride
Group Plc, with  Emerson Electric Co.  seeking to derail the
planned takeover of the company by ABB Ltd.  
 CH2M Hill, which acquired 9.5 million shares in Scott
Wilson at 245 pence a share, has worked on projects including a
seven-year program to double the capacity of the Panama Canal.  
 Scott Wilson and URS have “known each other for many years
and have worked together on projects,” URS Chairman  Martin Koffel  said in a telephone interview before CH2M’s bid. “These
discussions just started as a matter of natural course.”  
 The companies cooperated on the widening of the U.K.’s M1
motorway, Scott Wilson Chief Executive Officer  Hugh Blackwood 
said in the interview. URS leads Nuclear Management Partners, a
venture with Amec Plc and Areva SA that decommissions nuclear
waste at Sellafield.  
 Koffel declined to discuss CH2M’s interest in Scott Wilson.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Jane Credeur  in New York at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        