-- Venus Williams Is Upset by Unseeded Pironkova in Wimbledon Quarterfinals
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-29T16:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/venus-williams-is-upset-by-unseeded-pironkova-in-wimbledon-quarterfinals.html

          
          
             Five-time champion  Venus Williams 
was upset in the quarterfinals at  Wimbledon  today by Tsvetana
Pironkova, who had never been past the second round at a tennis
Grand Slam.  
 Pironkova, ranked No. 82 by the WTA Tour, beat the American
No. 2 seed and last year’s runner-up, 6-2, 6-3, on Court 1.
Defending champion  Serena Williams  beat Li Na of China in
straight sets, while  Vera Zvonareva  of Russia defeated eighth-
seeded  Kim Clijsters  of Belgium.  
 “I have received quite a few phone calls” from Bulgaria,
Pironkova said in a news conference. “Everyone was so happy and
excited. Honestly, I think no one expected me to play a
semifinal in Wimbledon and to beat Venus Williams like that.”  
 She said there are no journalists from Bulgaria covering
the event at the All England Club in London.  
 At least one of the Williams sisters has reached the final
in nine of the 10 years since Venus’s first title at the
championships in 2000.  
 Serena Williams will face unseeded  Petra Kvitova  of the
Czech Republic in the semifinals as the top seed bids for her
13th Grand Slam title. Kvitova, who never before had been beyond
the fourth round of a major, beat Kaia Kanepi, a qualifier from
Estonia, 4-6, 7-6 (10-8), 8-6.  
 Unforced Errors  
 Venus Williams made 29 unforced errors against Pironkova,
who made only six. The American had made 50 unforced errors in
her four previous rounds, all won in straight sets, an average
of 12.5 per match.  
 Williams also struggled with her serve, normally one of the
best parts of her game. She had three aces and a  winning
percentage of 58  whenever her first serve landed in. Pironkova,
who also had three aces, was successful on her first serve 74
percent of the time.  
 Pironkova,  aiming for her first career title , broke
Williams’s serve for 4-2 in the opening set, which she wrapped
up with a backhand passing shot, once again breaking the
American’s serve.  
 She continued to dictate the rallies against the five-time
champion in the second set.  
 Williams, who lost last year’s final to her sister Serena,
broke for 2-1. Pironkova fought back in the next game, reaching
two breakpoints with a backhand lob over the 6-foot-1 American.
She broke back for 2-2 as Williams hit a forehand low into the
net. The American also dropped her next service game, with a
backhand error.  
 Last Gasp  
 Serving to stay in the match at 5-2 down, Williams overcame
two match points. She saved the first one as Pironkova hit a
backhand into the net. The second match point was fended off
with a forehand winner.  
 Serving to become the first Bulgarian woman in a major
semifinal, Pironkova won on her third match point as Williams
hit a forehand volley wide.  
 Pironkova had only one win on the London grass courts
before this year, and had beaten Williams once before, in the
first round of the 2006 Australian Open. Williams took their
only other encounter before today, in Istanbul in 2005.  
 “I just didn’t get enough balls in today,” Williams said
in a news conference. “Just let it spiral and didn’t get any
balls in. I had a lot of opportunities and a lot of short balls.
I just seemed to hit each one out.”  
 Quick Exit  
 It is Williams’s earliest Wimbledon exit since 2006 and
denies the 30-year-old of what would have been her 200th victory
at a Grand Slam. It was the 13th win at a major for Pironkova,
the first against a top-two player.  
 Serena Williams, also the Wimbledon champion in 2002 and
2003, beat Li 7-5, 6-3 on Centre Court.  
 The 28-year-old American, who secured her 12th Grand Slam
title at this year’s Australian Open, broke in the 11th game of
first set after coming back from 0-40. Li hit a forehand into
the net, then a forehand long, before a double-fault made it 40-
40. Another double-fault and an overhit volley gave the game to
Williams, who then served out the set.  
 Williams broke twice in succession for 5-2 in the second
set, with a double-fault again contributing to the second, but
Li broke straight back. The Chinese player was again unable to
hold in the next game, giving her opponent the match.  
 “I didn’t have a good practice today, so I was a little
nervous,” Williams told the British Broadcasting Corp. “But I
can’t believe I am in the semis, I am very excited.”  
 Clijsters Out  
 Clijsters, playing at Wimbledon for the first time since
2006 after returning from a two-year retirement, was denied her
third semifinal appearance after the 21st-ranked Zvonareva beat
her for a first time, 3-6, 6-4, 6-2.  
 Clijsters, who won the U.S. Open last year as a wild-card
entrant shortly after returning to the tour, took the first set
as her opponent hit a backhand return long.  
 Zvonareva, 25, a semifinalist at the 2009 Australian Open,
broke for a 3-1 lead in the second set, then Clijsters broke
back in the ninth game to give her the chance of taking it into
a tiebreak.  
 Instead, Zvonareva broke back immediately and clinched the
match on a double-fault by the 27-year-old Clijsters.  
 “I’m disappointed,” Clijsters said in a news conference.
“It’s too bad I wasn’t able to come up with my best at the
important time in the match. She did. She was very consistent,
didn’t give me any easy mistakes. I gave her a few too many.”  
 Clijsters had  36 unforced errors  and produced two aces,
while Zvonareva made 19 mistakes and had three aces.  
 Zvonareva, who plays Pironkova in the next round, said
reaching the semifinals was “definitely one of my dreams.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Pironkova upsets Venus Williams at Wimbledon  
                       
                         
                           Adrian Dennis/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Bulgaria's Tsvetana Pironkova returns a ball to US Venus Williams during the Wimbledon Tennis Championships in London. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Bulgaria's Tsvetana Pironkova returns a ball to US Venus Williams during the Wimbledon Tennis Championships in London. Photographer: Adrian Dennis/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
