-- Verizon Wireless Said to Start Offering IPhone in January
-- Amy Thomson
-- 2010-06-29T23:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/verizon-wireless-said-to-start-offering-iphone-ending-at-t-s-exclusivity.html

          
          
             Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S.
mobile-phone company, will start selling  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone
next year, ending  AT&T Inc. ’s exclusive hold on the smartphone
in the U.S., two people familiar with the plans said.  
 The device will be available to customers in January,
according to the people, who declined to be named because the
information isn’t public.  Natalie Kerris , an Apple spokeswoman,
and  Jeffrey Nelson , a Verizon Wireless spokesman, declined to
comment.  
 The iPhone, which has been the sole domain of rival AT&T in
the U.S. since June 2007, will give Verizon a boost in its
competition for smartphone customers, UBS AG analyst  John Hodulik  said in an interview. Verizon customers, who numbered
92.8 million at the end of the first quarter, may buy 3 million
iPhones a quarter, he estimates.  
 “Apple is going to dramatically increase the number of
devices it sells in the U.S. when exclusivity at AT&T ends,”
said Hodulik, who is based in New York and rates Verizon shares
“neutral.” “It’s hard to ignore the quality issues that AT&T
has faced.”  
 Verizon Wireless, which is building a high-speed fourth-
generation network, plans to unveil several devices that will
run on the new technology in January at the Consumer Electronics
Show, Chief Executive Officer  Lowell McAdam  has said.  
 IPhone Gains  
 Verizon Communications Inc. , which co-owns the wireless
company with Vodafone Group Plc, slid 9 cents to $28.62 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading at 4 p.m. AT&T fell 49
cents to $24.46. Apple, based in Cupertino, California, dropped
$12.13 to $256.17 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  
 Peter Thonis , a spokesman for Verizon Communications, and
 Mark Siegel , an AT&T spokesman, declined to comment.  Tenille Kennedy , a spokeswoman for Research in Motion Ltd., didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  
 The iPhone has helped AT&T add subscribers even as the U.S.
mobile-phone market nears saturation. There are enough wireless
devices for more than nine out of 10 people, according to the
 CTIA  wireless industry association.  
 In the first three months of this year, about a third of
AT&T’s iPhone activations came from customers who were new to
the carrier. Without those 900,000 new subscribers, the company
may have posted a loss in contract customers that quarter,
analysts said.  
 Still, Dallas-based AT&T has battled customer complaints
about its wireless service, especially in New York and San
Francisco, and dedicated an extra $2 billion to upgrading its
 network  this year.  
 BlackBerry, Android  
 For Apple, a partnership with Basking Ridge, New Jersey-
based Verizon Wireless is a victory over rivals such as  RIM  and
Motorola Inc., whose smartphones are currently promoted by the
carrier.  
 “For Apple it means a larger addressable market,” said
 Andy Hargreaves , an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in
Portland, Oregon. “It’s also good news for Apple in that it
will spread the load on the wireless data networks, which will
be good for their customers.”  
 Motorola, which makes Droid phones that use  Google Inc. ’s
Android operating system, fell 27 cents, or 3.8 percent, to
$6.80 on the New York Stock Exchange. Google dropped $17.82, or
3.8 percent, to $454.26 on the Nasdaq. RIM, maker of the
BlackBerry, declined $3.22, or 6.1 percent, to $49.75.  
 Apple has sold more than 50 million iPhones since the
phone’s introduction in 2007. The latest version, iPhone 4, sold
more than 1.7 million units in the first three days after its
June 24 debut, a record for the product. Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Jobs  said the company didn’t have enough supply to meet
demand. Many stores, including retailer  Best Buy Co. , sold out.  
 A release at Verizon in the first quarter will help Apple’s
sales in the U.S. grow to at least 15 million units next year
from 11 million in 2010, Barclays Capital analysts said in a
note today. The company’s suppliers have been ramping up
production of components for a phone on Verizon’s CDMA network,
according to the research report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Verizon Communications CEO Ivan Seidenberg speaks to the Economic Club of Washington. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Marshall, an analyst with Gleacher & Co., and Chandan Sarkar, analyst at Auriga Securities, speak about the outlook for AT&T Inc.
     Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S. mobile-phone company, will start selling Apple Inc.’s iPhone next year, ending AT&T’s exclusive hold on the smartphone in the U.S., two people familiar with the plans said. They talk with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Ashok Kumar, senior technology analyst at Rodman & Renshaw, speaks about Verizon Wireless offering Apple Inc.'s iPhone in January 2011.
     Verizon, the largest U.S. mobile-phone company, will start selling Apple's iPhone next year, ending AT&T Inc.’s exclusive hold on the smartphone in the U.S., two people familiar with the plans said. Kumar talks with Matt Miller, Carol Massar and Cris Valerio on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
