-- Volcker Rule May Give Goldman, Citigroup Until 2022 to Comply
-- Bradley Keoun
-- 2010-06-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/volcker-rule-may-give-goldman-sachs-citigroup-until-2022-to-curb-funds.html

          
          
               Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and  Citigroup Inc . are among U.S. banks that may have as long as a
dozen years to cut stakes in in-house  hedge funds and private-
equity units  under a regulatory revamp agreed to last week.  
 Rules curbing banks’ investments in their own funds would
take effect 15 months to two years after a law is passed,
 according to the bill . Banks would have two years to comply,
with the potential for three one-year extensions after that.
They could seek another five years for “illiquid” funds such
as private equity or real estate, said  Lawrence Kaplan , an
attorney at Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker LLP in  Washington .  
 Giving banks until 2022 to fully implement the so-called
Volcker rule is an accommodation for  Wall Street  in what
President  Barack Obama  called the  toughest financial reforms 
since the 1930s. The Glass-Steagall Act of 1933 forced
commercial banks such as what is now JPMorgan Chase & Co. to
shed their investment-banking units in less than two years.  
 “One of the big concerns for the banks was how to unwind
these funds,” Kaplan said. “This takes a lot of that argument
away by giving them as much as 12 years to do so.”  
 The proposal, named for former Federal Reserve Chairman and
current Obama adviser  Paul Volcker , 82, seeks to avoid future
bailouts by curbing risk-taking and initially aimed to ban banks
from investing in hedge funds and private equity. It was
“watered down” in final negotiations last week, allowing
lenders to invest as much as 3 percent of their capital in the
funds, Deutsche Bank analysts Matt O’Connor and Michael Carrier
wrote in a note to clients last week.  
 Volcker’s View  
 Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, declined
to comment, as did Citigroup’s Duncan Smith. Both banks are
based in  New York .  
 Partly as a result of last-minute changes to the wording of
the bill, analysts, lawyers and congressional staffers say it’s
unclear whether the extension period for illiquid funds would
run concurrently with the other transition periods. That could
mandate full compliance in less than 12 years.  
 Barclays Capital analyst  Jason Goldberg  wrote in a report
yesterday that there would be a seven-year transition period for
the Volcker rule. Citigroup analyst Keith Horowitz wrote that
banks would have until 2018.  
 ‘Nine Years’  
 “In our understanding, it is nine years,” said Mike
Westling, a spokesman for Senator  Jeff Merkley , the Oregon
Democrat who proposed changes to the rule that were later
incorporated by Senator  Christopher Dodd , chairman of the Senate
Banking Committee.  
 The  Glass-Steagall Act   gave  banks one year to get out of
the underwriting business. Their banking licenses were subject
to revocation if they were in violation six months after that.  
 A separate part of last week’s bill allows banks to provide
“initial equity” in new funds to help “attract unaffiliated
investors.”  
 “There has to be something like that in there, to
literally make it work,” said Jim Reichbach, U.S. head of the
banking and securities practice at  Deloitte LLP . “Someone has
to put the first dollar in.”  
 The banks must reduce their investments in each fund to
less than 3 percent of total investor contributions within one
year of formation, according to the bill. They can apply for a
two-year extension.  
 No Capital Infusions  
 The Volcker rule forbids banks from stepping in with
capital infusions or other forms of support when their own funds
fail. In December 2007, Citigroup agreed to assume $59 billion
of assets bought by “structured investment vehicles” sponsored
by the bank. During the following two years, Citigroup lost more
than $3 billion on the SIVs, which were a kind of hedge fund
that invested in mortgage bonds, credit-card securities and
other assets that soured amid the financial crisis.  
 Goldman Sachs has $29.1 billion of principal investments,
Keith Horowitz, a Citigroup analyst, wrote yesterday in a report
summarizing the potential impact of the Volcker rule. JPMorgan
has $8.88 billion and  Morgan Stanley  has $6.34 billion, wrote
Horowitz, who doesn’t cover Citigroup.  
 Alyson Barnes, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley, declined
to comment, as did  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for JPMorgan.
The two banks are also based in New York.  
 In the case of Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley,
investments in private-equity funds might pay off before the
Volcker rule requires an exit, based on regulatory filings.  
 ‘Substantially All’  
 “Substantially all” of Goldman Sachs’s $11.5 billion of
investments in private-equity, hedge funds and real-estate funds
are slated to be liquidated in the next 10 years, according to a
company filing. Morgan Stanley estimated in a filing that 60
percent of its $1.81 billion of private-equity investments and
50 percent of real-estate investments will be liquidated within
the decade.  
 Citigroup’s hedge-fund and private-equity business,  Citi
Capital Advisors , oversees about $14 billion, 38 percent of
which is the bank’s own money, according to a marketing brochure
for the unit from April. At least four of the bank’s 14 hedge
funds consist only of proprietary capital. Citigroup’s Metalmark
Capital Partners private-equity unit started a new fund last
year with $1.7 billion of capital commitments from the bank and
its employees, according to the brochure.  
 The bank plans to raise more than $3 billion from outside
investors for hedge funds and private equity during the next two
years, people with direct knowledge of the matter said this
month. Such fundraising would reduce the bank’s percentage of
its own funds, they said.  
 The Volcker rule’s limits may still be enough to push banks
to reconsider whether to stay in the hedge-fund and private-
equity business, said Randall Guynn, head of the financial-
institutions practice at  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP . The specter
of future caps might deter would-be investors, he said.  
 “They may think that there’s not enough skin in the game
from the sponsors,” Guynn said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Former Federal Reserve Chairman and current Obama adviser Paul Volcker. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
