-- Wal-Mart Replaces U.S. Stores Chief Castro-Wright
-- Chris Burritt
-- 2010-06-29T16:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/wal-mart-u-s-stores-chief-castro-wright-changes-role-amid-family-illness.html

          
          
             Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  reassigned U.S.
stores chief  Eduardo Castro-Wright , putting him in charge of
Internet operations so he can move to California where his wife
is recovering from a heart transplant.  
 William Simon , an executive vice president, will become
chief executive officer for U.S. stores immediately,
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart said today in a statement.
Castro-Wright remains vice chairman and will also head global
sourcing, which focuses on cutting costs and improving quality.  
 Castro-Wright, who ran U.S. stores for five years, told
employees in a memo today he requested the transfer. He will
work in Wal-Mart’s e-commerce offices in Brisbane, California,
while his wife, Fabiola, recuperates in Los Angeles, said  David Tovar , a spokesman at the world’s largest retailer.  
 “My wife’s health continues to improve and we expect her
to fully recover,” Castro-Wright, 55, said in the memo. “But
it will be a slow process and I have made the decision that I
need to spend as much time as possible with her. Since she can’t
move from California, I need to move there.”  
 Simon, 50, said he will focus on increasing customer
traffic, stocking stores with merchandise consumers want to buy
and keeping prices low, according to the statement. Wal-Mart has
reduced thousands of prices this year and returned some grocery
items it had removed from stores to help reverse four straight
 quarters  of falling U.S. comparable-store sales.  
 Wal-Mart  fell  86 cents to $48.71 at 12:35 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock had fallen 7.3
percent this year before today.  
 ‘Getting Traffic Back’  
 The retailer said in May that sales at U.S. stores open at
least a year may decline as much as 2 percent or increase as
much as 1 percent in the second quarter.  
 “Challenge No. 1 for  Bill Simon  is getting traffic back
into the stores and same-store sales back into positive
territory,”  Joe Feldman , an analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in
New York, said by telephone. “Their core customer is still
under tremendous pressure.”  
 Gasoline prices and unemployment, coupled with competition
from other retailers that’s “stiffer than ever,” hurt traffic
to U.S. stores, Castro-Wright told shareholders at Wal-Mart’s
annual meeting in Fayetteville, Arkansas, on June 4.  
 Simon, chief operating officer for U.S. stores since April
2007, has been responsible for efforts to improve service at
Wal-Mart’s more than 3,700 U.S. stores. He helped start the
retailer’s program selling some prescription drugs for $4.  
 Castro-Wright will shift to his new position by Aug. 1. He
will be responsible for boosting online sales at websites such
as walmart.com in the U.S. and asda.com in the U.K.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro, North Carolina,
at   cburritt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       William Simon to become new Wal-Mart U.S. stores chief  
                       
                         
                           Jim Stern/Bloomberg 
                         
                         William Simon, a Wal-Mart executive vice president, will become chief executive officer for U.S. stores. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     William Simon, a Wal-Mart executive vice president, will become chief executive officer for U.S. stores. Photographer: Jim Stern/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Eduardo Castro-Wright will take over internet operations and global sourcing for Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Photographer: Beth Hall/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
