-- Wind-Power Projects May Face U.S. Delays for Conflicts With Military Radar
-- John Hughes
-- 2010-06-29T20:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/wind-power-projects-may-face-u-s-delays-for-conflicts-with-military-radar.html

          
          
             The U.S. military may seek to delay
construction of wind-farm power projects because turbines used
to generate electricity might disrupt radar, a Defense
Department official said.  
 Locations used to train soldiers such as California’s
Mojave Desert also are prime sites for wind-energy developers,
said  Dorothy Robyn , a deputy undersecretary of Defense.
Potential interference with surveillance radar from turbines has
reached a “threshold point” in areas such as the Pacific
Northwest, Robyn said today at a congressional hearing.  
 “These projects should not be pursued at the expense of
military readiness,” said Representative  Solomon Ortiz , a Texas
Democrat and chairman of the House Armed Services Committee’s
Readiness panel. “Not all areas are appropriate for wind-energy
development.”  
 U.S. lawmakers, energy companies and the Obama
administration are seeking ways to help expand wind-energy
projects without jeopardizing national defense. Applications for
such projects have surged more than eightfold, to 25,618 last
year from 3,030 in 2004, according to the Federal Aviation
Administration.  
 The FAA, which must approve structures that may interfere
with air travel, halted a 338-turbine project near Fossil,
Oregon, in March after the military raised concerns the
development would interrupt surveillance radar, Robyn said.  
 The Defense Department on April 30 dropped its objection,
in part because it found the effect on radar would not be as
severe as thought, she said. The project by Caithness Energy
LLC, a closely held company, will use  General Electric Co. 
turbines. GE in December won a $1.4 billion contract from the
New York-based Caithness.  
 ‘Vast Majority’  
 A “vast majority” of projects raise no concerns for the
Pentagon, though “objections by the department could become
more common,” Robyn said. Upgrading radar and improving the
process for locating turbines will reduce conflicts, she said.  
 The 400-foot turbines that spin up to 200 miles per hour
can produce a signal picked up by radar that is stronger than a
Boeing Co. 747 and can mask actual planes in the air,  Nancy Kalinowski , an FAA vice president, told the panel.  
 Of 214 FAA radars that provide U.S. coverage for homeland
defense, 13 are degraded by interference from wind turbines,
said Major General Lawrence Stutzriem of the North American
Aerospace Defense Command and U.S. Northern Command.  
 The two commands have supported 87 percent of 2,196
proposed wind turbines evaluated since 2008, Stutzriem said.  
 Robyn and Representatives  Mike Conaway , a Texas Republican,
and  John Garamendi , a California Democrat, said they would be
willing to consider the possibility wind-project developers
rather than taxpayers pay for radar upgrades required to avoid
disruptions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        