-- Tiger Woods Says There's `No Tension' With Caddie After U.S. Open Errors
-- Michael Buteau
-- 2010-06-29T20:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/woods-says-no-tension-with-caddie-of-11-years-following-u-s-open-loss.html

          
          
             Tiger Woods  will have  Steve Williams 
carrying his golf bag at this week’s AT&T National, two weeks
after making critical comments about his caddie at the  U.S.
Open .  
 After finishing fourth with a final-round 4-over-par 75 at
 Pebble Beach Golf Links , Woods blamed the loss on three mental
mistakes he said were influenced by Williams, his caddie for 11
years.  
 The admission of mental mistakes and singling out Williams
was a rarity for Woods, the winner of 14 major titles, and led
to questions about whether the duo would remain together.  
 “There’s no tension there, not at all,” Woods said during
a news conference today at Aronimink Golf Club in Newtown
Square, Pennsylvania. “You guys are reading way too much into
it.”  
 Woods seems to have changed his views of the U.S. Open
mistakes in the 10 days that have passed. Moments after the
final round, Woods said “we made three mental mistakes” and
“the only thing it cost us was a chance to win the U.S. Open.”  
 Today, Woods took sole responsibility, saying, “I was
asked what happened out there, and I made three mental mistakes
out there, three mistakes I don’t normally make.”  
 At the 2005 Masters, when Williams convinced Woods to hit
his driver on Augusta National Golf Club’s 350-yard third hole
during the final round, he finished with a double bogey and fell
out of contention after his tee shot landed in the trees. Woods
and Williams didn’t speak for most of the final round after the
gaffe.  
 ‘Not Perfect’  
 “Do Stevie and I make mistakes on the golf course? Of
course we do,” Woods said today. “We’re not perfect. We made
mistakes at the wrong time. It happens. We’re great competitors
and we both want to win. I just made a couple mistakes, and
hopefully that won’t happen this week and we can win an event.”  
 Woods, 34, is seeking his first victory of the season at
the AT&T National, which has moved from Congressional Country
Club in Bethesda, Maryland, to Aronimink, located about 15 miles
west of Philadelphia. Woods is the defending champion of the
tournament, which benefits his charitable foundation.  
 At the U.S. Open, Woods finished three shots behind winner
 Graeme McDowell  of Northern Ireland. The three-shot deficit was
the result of bogeys on the sixth, 10th and 12th holes, Woods
said.  
 He hit a 3-wood over a cliff on the sixth, came up short of
the green with a sand wedge on the 10th -- where he said he took
Williams’s advice to “take dead aim” instead of trusting his
own “instincts” -- and flew a 4-iron over the 12th green after
a discussion with Williams. Woods said he wanted to hit a 4-iron
on that hole.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Buteau  in Newtown Square, Pennsylvania at 
   mbuteau@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        