-- FIFA Sends Referees, Including Coulibaly, Larrionda, Home From World Cup
-- Christopher Elser
-- 2010-06-29T22:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/world-cup-referees-coulibaly-larrionda-sent-home-after-errors-in-matches.html

          
          
             Soccer’s governing body sent home
World Cup referee Koman Coulibaly, who disallowed a U.S. goal in
the group stage, and officials responsible for errors in matches
involving England and Mexico.  
 Coulibaly’s decision in the June 18 match sparked outrage
among fans, and later rulings, including Uruguayan referee Jorge
Larrionda’s denial of a goal by England’s  Frank Lampard ,
prompted FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  to say his organization
will review the need for technology to assist officials.  
 Coulibaly, Larrionda and Italian Roberto Rosetti were among
referees not selected for the quarterfinals and beyond. As teams
are eliminated and the number of games declines, FIFA keeps the
officials who have rated highest. Nineteen crews are left in
South Africa for the remaining eight matches.  
 “It was not five-star games for refereeing,” Blatter, who
attended the England and Mexico defeats, told reporters in
Johannesburg yesterday. “We will naturally take on board the
discussion on technology and have the first opportunity in
July.”  
 Blatter was in the stadium in Bloemfontein, South Africa,
three days ago as Larrionda and his linesmen didn’t give
Lampard’s goal in England’s 4-1 loss to Germany. Video replays
showed the shot went over the line after coming off the crossbar
with the Germans leading 2-1 in the first half.  
 Offside Opener  
 Blatter was also in Johannesburg later that day as Rosetti
and his crew allowed Argentina’s opening goal in a 3-1 win over
Mexico even though replays on the stadium screen showed striker
 Carlos Tevez  was offside.  
 The International Football Association Board, soccer’s
lawmaking body, in March decided not to introduce goal-line
technology. FIFA General Secretary Jerome Valcke said at the
weekend that the use of technology “is not on the table.”  
 Coulibaly ruled out a strike from substitute Maurice Edu
that would have given the U.S. a 3-2 lead over Slovenia in a
match that finished 2-2. The Americans, who had come back from
two goals down, surrounded the Malian referee, demanding an
explanation. Replays showed the U.S. players weren’t offside,
and there were no obvious fouls by Americans, although several
were being held by Slovenian players.  
 It’s not the first time refereeing has come under scrutiny
at the World Cup. Four years ago, English referee  Graham Poll 
was sent home before the quarterfinals after mistakenly giving
Croatia’s  Josip Simunic  three yellow cards during a match. He
then quit international tournaments.  
 Triple Yellow  
 Poll’s mistake in Croatia’s 2-2 draw against Australia
could have led to the game being replayed. He showed Simunic a
second yellow card in the final 10 minutes but failed to follow
the rules and give him a red card. Poll finally brandished a red
card after the third yellow following the final whistle.  
 Poll’s error didn’t involve his judgment, and so could have
been reviewed and overturned.  
 Among other controversies, Welsh referee Clive Thomas
disallowed a goal by Zico at the 1978 World Cup, blowing the
whistle for full time just before the Brazilian’s header entered
the net. It could have been the winning goal against Sweden.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in Cape Town at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        