-- Yen Near Strongest Since 2001 Versus Euro on Signs Global Growth Slowing
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-06-30T04:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/yen-holds-near-eight-year-high-versus-euro-on-u-s-china-growth-concerns.html

          
          
             The yen traded near the strongest
level in eight years against the euro as signs the global
recovery is waning boosted demand for safer assets.  
 The Japanese currency was also close to an eight-week high
against the dollar as Asian stocks declined before reports that
economists said will show U.S. business activity expanded at a
weaker pace and China’s manufacturing growth slowed. The euro
headed for a quarterly loss against all of its major
counterparts amid concern European banks will have to borrow at
higher interest rates when they refinance central-bank loans.  
 “U.S. economic reports are losing momentum, while it will
take time to resolve Europe’s sovereign debt issues,” said
 Yoshiaki Ota , head of the foreign-exchange trading group in
Tokyo at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., a unit of Japan’s third-
largest banking group. “Investors can’t buy the dollar or the
euro, so they are turning to the yen as a last resort.”  
 The yen traded at 108.15 per euro as of 1:01 p.m. in Tokyo
from 107.98 in New York yesterday, when it advanced to 107.32,
the strongest since November 2001. Japan’s currency was at 88.57
per dollar from 88.60 yesterday when it climbed to 88.29, the
highest since May 6. The euro was at $1.2212 from $1.2188.  
 The euro has fallen 14 percent versus the yen this quarter,
the most since the last three months of 2008. Europe’s currency
has slumped 9.6 percent against the dollar since March 31.  
 Global Growth  
 The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. will say
today its business barometer fell to 59 this month from 59.7 in
May, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. Figures
greater than 50 signal expansion. China’s Purchasing Managers’
Index dropped to 53.2 in June from 53.9 in May, according to
another survey before tomorrow’s data.  
 “Investors are growing more concerned about the global
recovery story, with talk of double-dip recession rising,” said
 Khoon Goh , a senior markets economist at ANZ National Bank Ltd.
in Wellington. “The dollar and the yen are back in favor.”  
 The yen tends to strengthen during times of economic and
financial turmoil because Japan’s trade surplus makes it less
reliant on foreign funding. The dollar benefits as the world’s
main reserve currency.  
 “Every economy slows down at some point,” said  Marito Ueda , senior marketing director at FX PRIME Corp., a foreign-
exchange margin company in Tokyo. “China can’t keep growing
alone with others struggling. As risk sentiment declines, the
yen is likely to advance.”  
 Best Performer  
 Japan’s currency has gained 13 percent this year, the
biggest advance among its 10 developed-world counterparts,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
is up 7.4 percent, and the euro has dropped 10 percent, the
biggest loss in the group.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  of regional shares fell 1.4
percent today and the  Nikkei 225  Stock Average dropped 2 percent.  
 The euro traded near a record low against the Swiss franc
on speculation the health of Europe’s banks will be exposed
today when the European Central Bank offers them three-month
loans before a landmark 12-month facility has to be paid back.  
 Banks on July 1 need to repay 442 billion euros ($539
billion) under the ECB’s so-called Long-Term Refinancing
Operation, a major part of its effort to contain the financial
crisis. Demand for three-month cash may highlight how much banks
still rely on the ECB for funding.  
 ‘Hard Time’  
 “European banks seem to be having a very hard time in
procuring funds,” said  Toshihiko Sakai , head of trading for
currencies and financial products in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ
Trust & Banking Corp., Japan’s largest financial group. “The
bias is for the euro to be sold.”  
 Europe’s common currency was at 1.3222 francs from 1.3188
francs yesterday, when it declined to 1.3166, the weakest since
the euro’s 1999 debut.  
 Gains in the yen were tempered on speculation Japanese
investors are buying overseas assets in search of higher returns.  
 Finance companies in Japan are looking to raise at least
830 billion yen ($9.4 billion) for mutual funds, or toshin,
focused on foreign assets today and tomorrow, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Japanese investors were net buyers of
256.7 billion yen of overseas assets in the week ended June 18,
according to figures released last week by the Finance Ministry.  
 “There are good-sized toshin launches today and tomorrow,”
said  Sue Trinh , senior currency strategist at RBC Capital
Markets in Hong Kong. “This could offset some of the yen buying
against the crosses.”  
 Losses in the dollar versus the yen were also limited as a
gauge of momentum indicated the U.S. currency’s recent decline
was excessive.  
 The 14-day relative strength index of the greenback versus
the yen declined to 29.7. Readings below 30 indicate an asset’s
value may have fallen too fast and be poised to rebound.  
 “We’re very oversold, so the market is potentially running
out of downward momentum,”  Andrew Chaveriat , a technical
analyst in New York at BNP Paribas SA, said yesterday. “We’re
vulnerable to a snapback reversal off these oversold levels.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        