-- Yen Rally Against Dollar Signals More Treasury Buying: Technical Analysis
-- Susanne Walker
-- 2010-06-29T17:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/yen-rally-against-dollar-signals-more-treasury-buying-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             The yen’s advance to a seven-week
high against the dollar will prompt Japan’s investors to buy
more Treasuries as the U.S. economic recovery stalls, according
to CRT Capital Group LLC.  
 Japan, the second largest lender to the U.S., added $10.6
billion of Treasuries to its holdings in April, boosting the
level to $795.5 billion. The yen tends to strengthen during
economic and financial turmoil because Japan’s trade surplus
makes it less reliant on foreign funding.  
 “One can take leaps and say if the dollar is weaker, the
U.S. economy is weaker, which means that yields are going to go
down, so the Japanese are getting involved ahead of that,” said
 David Ader , head of government bond strategy in Stamford,
Connecticut, at CRT. “If and when we see the yen improving,
then that correlates with lower yields.”  
 The yen climbed 0.9 percent to 88.55 against the dollar,
from 89.37 yesterday, after touching 88.29, the strongest level
since May 6. Japan’s currency has risen 5.6 percent against the
dollar during the second quarter. The 10-year Treasury note
yield dropped four basis points to 2.99 percent after falling to
2.95 percent, the lowest level since April 2009.  
 The correlation coefficient between the dollar-yen exchange
rate and the 10-year note yield was 0.70 today, based on 120
days of trading. A record high of 0.74 was reached on June 3. A
reading of 1 would mean the two move in lockstep.  
 Japan’s currency has risen 13 percent this year, the most
among 10 developed-nation currencies, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indices, which calculate weights based on
variances in exchange rates. The dollar is up 7.2 percent, and
the euro has dropped 10 percent, the biggest loss in the group.  
 Consumer Confidence  
 The Conference Board’s index of U.S. consumer confidence
fell to 52.9 in June from a revised 62.7 in the prior month, the
New York-based group reported today. The median forecast of 71
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a decrease to 62.5
from a previously reported 63.3. Figures from the Labor
Department on July 2 will show the nation lost 115,000 jobs,
according to the median forecast in a separate survey.  
 The U.S. recovery pace is “likely to be moderate for a
time,” the Federal Reserve said in its June 23 statement after a
two-day policy meeting.  
 The yen’s strength “is one of the many factors conspiring
to drive yields lower,” Ader said. “We’ve had a weak NFP,
disappointing housing data. The Fed has acknowledged the
European crisis. We are at the end of the first half of the
year, and clearly the market’s move has been about short-
squeezing in the bond sector against reallocating out of stocks,
which have done poorly. All those have pushed the rally for 10-
year notes to these levels.”  
 In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index. A short is a bet an asset will
fall.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        