-- Zurich Lures Reinsurers Betting Solvency II Rules Will Drive Europe Demand
-- Carolyn Bandel
-- 2010-06-30T09:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/zurich-lures-reinsurers-betting-solvency-ii-rules-will-drive-europe-demand.html

          
          
             Catlin Group Ltd.  will join  Amlin
Plc  and  Endurance Specialty Holdings Ltd.  in expanding in
Switzerland to gain from proposed capital rules that may boost
demand for reinsurance coverage in Europe.  
 Catlin, owner of the largest insurance unit at Lloyd’s of
London, plans to form a wholly-owned unit in Switzerland, the
firm said yesterday. The number of reinsurers in Zurich has
doubled to 31 since 2006, before the  European Commission  adopted
the Solvency II proposal, data from New Reinsurance Co. show.
The new directive is designed to align insurers’ risks with the
capital they hold to ensure clients’ claims are covered.  
 “The thinking appears to be that it pays to be on the
ground as European primaries are looking for new reinsurance
carriers driven by Solvency II,” said  Hamish Chalmers , a
London-based analyst with  Macquarie Group Ltd.   
 The planned regulation, which is due to come into effect by
2013, is likely to force insurers to raise the amount of capital
they hold against liabilities. Some forms of reinsurance will be
accepted as a potential alternative source of capital.
Reinsurers also say they are choosing Zurich over other European
locations in part because Switzerland has attractive tax rates.  
 Catlin’s new unit will allow the reinsurer to benefit from
“opportunities created as the result of the forthcoming
Solvency II regulatory regime,” it said in a statement
yesterday. The holding company will remain in Bermuda.  
 ‘Should Drive Earnings’  
 “Successful implementation should drive earnings” and may
add as much as 10 percent to Catlin’s revenue,  Ben Cohen , a
London-based analyst with Collins Stewart Plc, wrote in a report
today. Cohen has a “buy” recommendation on the stock.  
 Capital requirements of insurers, such as Allianz SE and
Axa SA, may rise because of the proposed rules, according to a
report by Fitch Ratings dated June 2.  Swiss Reinsurance Co. , the
world’s second-largest reinsurer, said June 11 that Solvency II
will influence returns in coming years.  
 Reinsurers provide insurers with coverage against peak
risks such as natural catastrophes, pandemics or very large
liability claims, helping them shoulder and diversify risks in
return for insurance premiums.  
 Amlin , the biggest insurer at Lloyd’s of London, said in
May it would move its Bermuda-based unit, Amlin Bermuda Ltd., to
Zurich to tap European small and mid-sized companies for non-
life reinsurance business in countries including Belgium,
Germany, Italy and Luxembourg.  
 Amlin Move  
 Consolidation in the European reinsurance industry, an
increased focus on counterparty credit risk, and Solvency II
“could be drivers for continental European insurers to look for
an increased spread of their reinsurance purchasing,” said
Philippe Regazzoni, chief executive officer of newly created
Amlin AG.  
 “The move gives Amlin a diversification in terms of lines
of business, geography, and client base,” he said. The company
aims to expand its new office, which is close to Lake Zurich and
competitors Endurance, to 25 people from the current six by the
end of this year.  
 Bermuda traditionally is a base for reinsurers who write
U.S. and international property catastrophe coverage. European
insurers tend to buy from a reinsurer in the same region,
analysts said.  
 European insurers have criticized new capital rules -- as
proposed by the Committee of European Insurance and Occupational
Pension Supervisors -- for being “excessively prudent.” Standard
& Poor’s in February said insurers’ capital needs may rise about
70 percent based on earlier advice by Ceiops, as the body
consulting the EU Commission on Solvency II is known.  
 Capital Requirements  
 Meanwhile, some of the requirements have been eased and to
test the proposed rules a fifth quantitative impact study will
be carried out among insurers from August until mid-November.
Ceiops plans to publish the results in April 2011, according to
the EU Commission’s Solvency II timetable.  
 Reinsurers may profit from Solvency II as an increase of
reinsurance cover “will be potentially the most efficient way
for primary insurers to reduce capital requirements,” according
to Fitch Ratings.  
 “The only capital that you can find in the market to
reduce earnings volatility is through reinsurance,” Marc
Beckers, head of analytics Europe, Middle East and Africa at  Aon
Benfield , said in a phone interview from London on June 25.
“The reinsurers are concerned that if they are in Bermuda and
they have to calculate their capital under Solvency II schemes
as well as under the local regulation it’s going to put them at
a disadvantage and create a lot more costs.”  
 U.S. Tax Clampdown  
 The potential benefits of new regulation aren’t Zurich’s
only attractions for reinsurance companies, said  Karl Mayr ,
chief executive officer of Axis Re Europe, the Zurich-based
European reinsurer of Bermuda’s  Axis Capital Holding Ltd .  
 “While I believe that Solvency II will influence
reinsurance purchases, it will take considerable time till we
will see material changes,” Mayr said June 2. Reinsurers are
looking for an alternative to Bermuda as U.S. President  Barack Obama  clamps down on tax havens, and “another half a dozen
potential candidates” may come to Zurich from Bermuda, mainly
because of the tax, legal and regulatory environment, he said.  
 The 2004 Jobs Act, which made it costly for U.S. companies
to relocate to overseas domiciles, and Obama’s tax clampdown
have spurred an exodus of firms from jurisdictions that don’t
have full tax treaties with the U.S., including Bermuda,
according to  Larry Kemm , partner at law firm Sharp Kemm PA in
Tampa, Florida.  
 Attracting Business  
 Companies relocating to Switzerland negotiate through
accounting and law firms to obtain an tax ruling from one of the
country’s 26 cantons, including the cantons of Zurich and Zug,
which may offer tax breaks with the expectation that new
arrivals will create jobs.  
 Swiss corporate tax rates, including a federal rate of 8.5
percent, range from 11.8 percent in the town of Pfaeffikon in
Schwyz to 24.2 percent in Geneva, according to tax consultant
Mattig-Suter & Partner. That compares with a corporate tax rate
of 28 percent in the U.K. and 35 percent in the U.S.  
 “The fact that more people move makes more people
contemplate whether they shouldn’t seriously consider that
too,” said Andreas Molck-Ude, chief executive officer of New
Re, which moved its headquarters from Geneva to Zurich last year
because it was easier to recruit “appropriately skilled
underwriters” there.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A tram passes the UBS AG headquarters, center, and the Credit Suisse Group AG headquarters, right, in Zurich. Photographer: Peter Frommenwiler/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
