-- Cellectis, Walgreen, Jones: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2008-03-17T11:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-03-17/cellectis-walgreen-jones-intellectual-property-update1-.html

          
          
             Cellectis SA , a French drug
developer specializing in DNA research, sued a North Carolina-
based biotech company for patent infringement.  
 Cellectis accused  Precision BioSciences Inc.  of infringing
two patents for a technology that permits scientists to insert
genes at specific target sites in the DNA of an organism,
according to the complaint filed in federal court in North
Carolina on March 13.  
 Precision BioSciences, based in Durham, says its Directed
Nuclease Editor ``can be applied to nearly every facet of
biotechnology including crop and cell in engineering, antivirals,
antibacterials, genetic diagnostics and gene therapy,'' according
to the company's  Web site .  
 The company received a grant from the National Institutes of
Health to conduct Phase 1 research into the use of its Directed
Nuclease Editor to develop treatments for cystic fibrosis,
Precision BioSciences announced in a statement Feb. 26.  
 It's also entered into a collaboration with  DuPont Co. 's
Pioneer Hi-Bred unit to use that same technology to accelerate
development in corn, soybeans and other crops. That agreement was
announced Feb. 11.  
 In dispute are patents 6,610,545 and 7,309,605. Cellectis is
the exclusive licensee of the two patents at issue, which are
owned by the  Institute Pasteur  and the  Universite Pierre et Marie
Curie , according to the complaint.  
 The '545 patent was issued in August 2003. Institute Pasteur
applied for the patent in April 2001. The '605 patent was issued
in December 2007. The application for that patent was filed in
April 2004. Washington's  Finnegan, Henderson, Farabow, Garrett &
Dunner  assisted with both applications.  
 Cellectis officials said in September that the company may
become profitable in three years.  
 Cellectis is represented by  James L. Gale  and  Kelly T.
Ensslin  from Greensboro, North Carolina's  Smith Moore , and
 Richard S. Gresalfi  and  Paul M. Richter Jr.  from New York's
 Kenyon & Kenyon .  
 The case is Cellectis v. Precision BioSciences Inc.,
5:08-cv-001119-H, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of North
Carolina (Western Division).  
 Wyeth Sues Watson Over Lybrel Oral Contraceptive Patent  
 Wyeth  sued  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. , accusing the
generic-drug maker of infringing a patent for the  Lybrel  oral
contraceptive.  
 Watson applied to the  U.S. Food and Drug Administration  to
market a copy of Lybrel in violation of the patent awarded in
2002, Wyeth claims in a complaint filed March 12 in federal court
in Wilmington, Delaware. Wyeth, based in Madison, New Jersey,
began selling the once-a-day pill last year.  
 ``Wyeth will be irreparably harmed'' unless a judge
prohibits sales of the generic version, the company's lawyers
said in court documents.  
 Lybrel, designed to eliminate women's monthly menstrual
periods, was approved by the FDA in May. Sales of $250 million a
year were expected, Wyeth said at the time. Wyeth had 2007  sales 
of $22.4 billion, compared with Watson's $2.5 billion.  
 The dispute is over patent 6,500,814, which covers a
compound with two hormonal components and the continuous
administration of the drug.  
 The patent was issued in December 2002. The application was
filed in June 2000, and Irving, California's  Knobbe, Martens,
Olson & Bear  assisted with the application process.  
 Jack B. Blumenfeld  and  Karen Jacobs Louden  from Wilmington's
 Morris, Nichols, Arsht & Tunnell  represent Wyeth.  
 The case is Wyeth v. Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc., 08CV145,
U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 For other patent news from March 14, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Walgreen Accused of Infringing Soft-Drink Trademark  
 Walgreen Co. , the largest U.S. drugstore chain, was sued for
trademark infringement by a soft-drinks manufacturer.  
 Leading Edge Flavors Inc., based in Temple, Texas, says
Walgreen's Frosty brand root beer infringes its trademark.
Leading Edge makes a Frostie brand root beer, and has had
registration of the U.S. trademark since 1957.  
 Walgreen's use of the Frosty brand confuses customers,
Leading Edge said in its complaint filed March 13 in federal
court in Waco, Texas.  
 Leading Edge asked the court to declare that Walgreen's
Frosty infringes its mark. The company is also seeking an order
barring Walgreen's use of the Frosty name in connection with soft
drinks.  
 It's also seeking an accounting of profits that Deerfield,
Illinois-based Walgreen has made from selling the Frosty soft
drinks, and money damages and attorney fees.  
 John A. Powell  of Waco, Texas-based  Naman, Howell, Smith &
Lee  represents Leading Edge.  
 The case is Leading Edge Flavors Inc. v. Walgreen Co.,
6:08-cv-00073-WSS, U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas
(Waco).  
 Nestle Wins Chinese Trademark Case Against Danone Unit  
 Nestle SA , the world's biggest food company, won a trademark
infringement case in China against  Groupe Danone 's Royal Numico
Dumex, Xinhua news service  reported  March 13.  
 The dispute involved Numico Dumex's use of a shield device
on its powdered milk products, according to Xinhua.  
 Nestle had a registered trademark for a shield device and
the Chinese characters for ``golden shield'' and sued Numico in
September for using the same trademarks on its products, Xinhua
reported.  
 Numico was ordered by Beijing Municipal No. 1 Intermediate
People's Court to stop selling infringing products and pay
200,000 renminbi ($28,208) compensation, according to Xinhua.  
 For other trademark news from March 14, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Jones Apparel Sued by Major Textile Imports Over Copyright  
 Jones Apparel Group , maker of  Jones New York  clothing and
 Nine West  shoes, was sued for copyright infringement by a
textile-importing company.  
 Major Textile Imports Inc. of Los Angeles said Jones
infringed copyrights for one of its textile designs. Major
Textile designed the fabric in November 2006 and received U.S.
copyright registration for the design in January 2007, according
to the complaint filed in federal court in Los Angeles March 7.  
 The knock-off fabric is used in Jones's l.e.i. brand and was
seen made up in garments shown in  Seventeen  magazine and  Teen
Vogue , Major Textile said in court papers. The  l.e.i. brand  is
aimed at 13-to-17-year-old girls, according to Jones's  Web site .  
 New York-based Jones announced in February that  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. , would begin selling the l.e.i. line for the back-to-
school season, and expected to generate $100 million in sales
from the line.  
 Major Textile asked the court to order the impounding and
destruction of all garments made from the infringing fabric, and
that Jones be barred from making any use of the copyright design.  
 It's also seeking attorney fees and money damages, including
profits Jones made from selling the allegedly infringing garment.  
 Major Textile filed a similar suit Feb. 29, accusing Jones
of infringing a different fabric pattern, also made up in l.e.i.
clothing.  
 Major Textile is represented by  Mark D. Brutzkus  and  Luis A.
Garcia  of  Ezra Brutzkus Gubner  of Woodland Hills, California.  
 The case is Major Textile Imports Inc. v. Jones Apparel
Group, 2:08-CV-01613, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California. (Los Angeles).  
 Sweden May Force Internet Providers to Name File Sharers  
 Sweden's government said it may demand that Internet
providers identify people who illegally share music and films on
the Web to help protect copyright holders.  
 The provider should be required to hand over details about
the user to musicians, authors and other copyright holders
through a court request in order to let the copyright holders
intervene, Justice Minister Beatrice Ask and Culture Minister
 Lena Adelsohn Liljeroth  wrote in an  opinion piece  in Svenska
Dagbladet March 13.  
 ``Our measures strive to promote the development of legal,
attractive and consumer-friendly ways to access music, film,
computer games, literature or other copyright-protected material
provided via the Internet,'' Ask and Liljeroth wrote.  
 The new rules would give copyright holders hurt by illegal
downloads the possibility to get a court order and request
compensation without requiring support by the police, the
ministers said. Today, copyright holders must report illegal file
sharing to the police first to stop the illegal act.  
 Sweden is targeting illegal file sharing after complaints
were filed against the Pirate Bay Web site by the International
Federation of the Phonographic Industry. Swedish prosecutors
earlier this year charged four men connected with the file
sharing domain for helping others violate copyright laws.  
 Data from 19 Harvard graduate student-housing applications
showed up on Pirate Bay without authorization, the university
acknowledged March 13. The school said personal information for
about 10,000 graduate students or applications had been hacked by
an ``outsider.''  
 For other copyright news from March 14, click here.  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 One Laptop Files Countersuit in Nigerian Keyboard Dispute  
 One Laptop Per Child, the non-profit group set up to provide
$100 laptops in developing nations, has answered an infringement
lawsuit filed by a Nigerian research company.  
 Lagos Analysis Corp. , known as Lancor, is a research and
development company registered in Nigeria and based in Natick,
Massachusetts.  
 Lancor filed suit in Nigeria last November after concerns
raised in a letter to the not-for-profit organization set up by
Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor  Nicholas Negroponte  were not satisfactorily addressed, Chief Executive  Ade
Oyegbola  said in a March 14 phone interview.  
 The Nigerian judge hearing the case issued a restraining
order against further distribution of the laptops in that country
in December pending the determination of the suit.  
 One Laptop Per Child then went to Massachusetts state court
seeking to be cleared of any wrongdoing in the use of the
multilingual keyboard. The new federal suit filed in Boston March
12 reflects a removal of the case to federal court.  
 Nigerian-born Oyegbola claims he invented a special
keyboard incorporating the unique punctuation marks used in
written Nigerian languages in 2006. He was ``surprised'' to find
the keyboard was unlawfully copied and distributed with $100
laptops the  One Laptop Per Child  is giving to children in the
world's poor regions.  
 ``It doesn't make sense not to protect your intellectual
property,'' Oyegbola said from Lancor's office in Natick,
Massachusetts.  
 Attorneys representing both parties failed to reach an
agreement when they made contact in January, Oyegbola said.  
 Lancor's Konyin keyboard was originally designed to solve
Nigeria's keyboard difficulties as the local languages use
characters that are absent from the English keyboard, said
Oyegbola. The company has since discovered it has a wider global
application.  
 ``We looked and found we can use it in Europe, Asia and
South America and we went ahead to do so,'' Oyegbola said.  
 One Laptop acknowledged it did buy at least one Konyin
keyboard, but never used the software that accompanied the
keyboard, according to its court papers.  
 Konyin software is for use with  Microsoft Corp. 's Windows,
and the One Laptop computer is  Linux -based, so the Konyin
software would not work, One Laptop said in its pleadings.  
 Because it never used the software, One Laptop never agreed
to the license agreement, and therefore could not have breached
the agreement by developing the XO laptop's multilingual
keyboard, according to court papers.  
 One Laptop also denied that it had misappropriated any
Konyin trade secrets. The layout of the Konyin keyboard is
``publicly available to anyone who inspects the keyboard'' and is
also available at the www.konyin.com Web site, One Laptop said in
its pleadings.  
 Intel Corp. left One Laptop's board in January after
reaching what Intel spokesman  Chuck Mulloy  said was ``a
philosophical impasse'' with the foundation. The group had asked
 Intel  to abandon its support for a rival inexpensive computer --
the Classmate PC -- and the company refused.  
 John A. Dalimonte  of Boston's  Karon & Dalimonte  represents
Lagos Analysis Corp. One Laptop's lawyers are  Katherine B.
Schmeckpeper ,  Michael B. Keating , and  Bruce R. Parker  of Boston's
Foley Hoag.  
 The case is One Laptop per Child Association v. Lagos
Analysis Corp., 1:08-cv-10405-GAO, U.S. District Court, District
of Massachusetts (Boston).  
 For other trade secret/industrial espionage news from March 14
click here.  
 For Bloomberg articles by lawyers on intellectual property topics
click here.  
 For daily Bloomberg legal analysis click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        