-- RIM Team Working With BlackBerry Applications Developers for China Market
-- Hugo Miller
-- 2010-04-16T20:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-16/research-in-motion-team-working-with-blackberry-apps-developers-in-china.html

          
          
             Research In Motion Ltd., maker of
the BlackBerry, has a team in China working with application
developers ahead of the release of new models tailored to
Chinese consumers.  
 “There are a lot of applications that already traverse
borders but at the same time, building a local community of
applications is important,” Jeff McDowell, senior vice president
of business marketing and alliances, said today in an interview.  
 RIM has doubled the number of applications on its App World
site to 6,000 since October. The company is pushing into markets
like China, Indonesia and India, promoting models such as the
Bold and Tour and the apps to run on them. It opened the site a
year ago to spur competition with Apple Inc.’s iPhone and App
Store and to draw more consumers as sales growth slowed among
its traditional base of business customers.  
 China Telecom Corp. said March 22 it will begin selling a
BlackBerry in May as it tries to take customers from Hong Kong-
based China Unicom Ltd., which sells the iPhone. Waterloo,
Ontario-based RIM hasn’t confirmed a date. Smartphone shipments
in China, the world’s largest wireless market, are projected to
grow by 26 percent to 22 million this year, according to Ramon
Llamas, an analyst at IDC in Framingham, Massachusetts.  
 “Regardless of our sales arrangements there, from a
developer community I’m already working with developers in
China,” McDowell said in an interview.  
 IPhone or iPod Touch users can choose from 185,000 free and
paid applications through Cupertino, California-based Apple’s
App Store. More than 4 billion apps had been downloaded, Chief
Executive Officer Steve Jobs said April 8.  
 RIM, which shipped 10.5 million BlackBerrys last quarter,
doesn’t disclose how many downloads its customers make from App
World.
    RIM fell $1.55, or 2.1 percent, to $72.03 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has gained 6.7
percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        