-- Summers Says Financial Overhaul Should Be Law by June
-- Mike Dorning
-- 2010-04-17T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-16/summers-says-u-s-financial-rules-overhaul-is-likely-to-be-passed-by-june.html

          
          
             White House economic adviser
Lawrence Summers predicted an overhaul of financial regulation
will be approved by Congress in coming months and voiced
general support for a proposal to place limits on derivatives
trading by commercial banks.  
 “I ultimately can’t believe this debate is going to get
resolved on the side of special interests stalling,” Summers
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital With Al Hunt” airing this weekend. Asked about
prospects Congress would act by June, Summers responded, “They
should. I think they will.”  
 Summers, director of the White House’s National Economic
Council, said a proposal on derivatives trading by Senator
Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas, is in line with the Obama
administration’s goal of increasing transparency.  
 “We haven’t seen the language yet,” Summers said. “What
we do support is the principles that derivatives need to be
traded in the sunshine, that there needs to be centralized
clearing, and Senator Lincoln appears to be moving very much in
those directions.”  
 Lincoln’s provision, which could be added to financial
overhaul regulation when it reaches the Senate floor, would
require banks to spin off derivatives trading operations to
separately capitalized subsidiaries.  
 Minutes after the interview ended, as Summers walked down a
hallway, an aide informed him that Goldman Sachs Group Inc. had
just been sued by the Securities and Exchange Commission for
fraud in connection with a financial product tied to subprime
mortgages. Someone suggested the news would make it more
difficult for banks to lobby against financial-regulatory
legislation. Summers simply smiled.  
 Hedge Funds  
 Obama has proposed the most sweeping overhaul of financial
regulations since the 1930s. It includes stronger oversight of
derivatives trading and hedge funds, an independent consumer
financial-protection authority, and a system for unwinding large
systemically important firms when they fail.  
 Summers, 55, blasted attempts by Senate Republican Leader
Mitch McConnell of Kentucky to brand the financial-regulation
overhaul a “bailout bill.”  
 “If this is really about bailouts for banks as Senator
McConnell asserts, why are banks so opposed to this bill?”
Summers asked.  
 Republican congressional leaders, who are seeking to
maintain a united front against the legislation, have argued it
would encourage bailouts because it gives the federal government
authority to unravel institutions when their failure threatens
the financial system.  
 Summers defended the authority as “euthanasia for
institutions that run themselves into the ground.”  
 No Legal Framework  
 “We have no legal framework in the United States for
managing the failure of a non-bank financial institution,” he
said. “That leaves no choice but to provide bailouts,” Summers
said, citing the Bush Administration’s rescue of New York-based
insurer American International Group Inc.  
 Asked how long he would remain in his post at the White
House, Summers said he is “very involved” in developing “a
longer-term agenda of renewing the American economy.”  
 “I’m very much a part of that and plan to be going
forward,” he added.  
 Summers said the administration has been “gratified” by
recent data showing improvements in the economy. Even so, he
said the economic downturn is still taking a toll on average
Americans.  
 “We may have a statistical recovery,” he said. “But
there’s still a very real human recession out there, and that’s
why there’s a great deal we need to do.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Director of the National Economic Council Lawrence Summers speaks at a U.S. Energy Information Administration conference in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
