-- U.S. Treasury Seeks to Ease Path for Bank Seizures
-- Rebecca Christie
-- 2010-04-16T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-16/u-s-treausury-seeks-to-ease-path-for-bank-seizures-in-regulatory-overhaul.html

          
          
             U.S. Treasury Department officials
are seeking to change provisions in the Senate’s proposed
financial-rules overhaul that they say might hamper regulators’
ability to seize a large bank and prevent a financial panic.  
 Treasury officials say part of the Senate proposal would
restrict the amount of money regulators could use to operate a
failing firm after it has been seized. They also say a provision
requiring bankruptcy judges to sign off on the seizure of a
systemically important firm could prevent fast action.  
 The Obama administration wants to give regulators authority
to head off the kind of credit freeze that followed the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008. Provisions
of the Senate bill backed by Banking Committee Chairman
Christopher Dodd might impede efforts to dismantle failing firms
that pose a threat to the system, Treasury officials say.  
 Speed is vital because “the moment you say we’re going to
let someone look at this, everyone starts scurrying around
lining up their ducks, and you basically have invited a run on a
bank,” said Bill Brown, a Duke University law professor and
former managing director at Morgan Stanley.  
 Treasury officials say they want to change some provisions
of the Senate plan without scuttling the financial-regulation
overhaul, which has been a top priority of President Barack
Obama since he took office in January 2009.  
 “There’s openness to making sure that the whole process
works,” Michael Barr, Treasury’s assistant secretary for
financial institutions, said in an interview yesterday.  
 Council of Regulators  
      The Senate Banking Committee approved a financial-rules
overhaul on March 22 that advances the Obama administration’s
call for the biggest restructuring of Wall Street oversight
since the 1930s. The bill proposed by Dodd would create a
council of regulators to monitor systemic risks, set up an
independent consumer-protection agency at the Federal Reserve
and shift oversight of mid-size and small banks from the Fed to
other agencies.  
 “We’re very close to something that we could stand up and
say with pride is going to be a good and strong bill, prevent us
from ever seeing this kind of crisis again in the future,”
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said at a news conference
on April 14.  
 The Senate proposal gives the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. authority to borrow from the Treasury as much as 90
percent of the “fair value” of a firm’s assets to cover
operational costs while it is in receivership.  
 Too Restrictive  
 Treasury officials say such a limit could lead investors to
wonder whether a firm could meet its obligations, and they worry
that “fair value” is too restrictive and could be distorted in
a panic.  
 Dodd and the FDIC say the 90 percent cap limits risks to
taxpayer funds because the bank’s assets could be tapped to make
up any government losses.  
 “It’ll be money we can get back,” said Kirstin Brost, a
spokeswoman for Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat.  
 This effort to limit taxpayer liability could prevent
regulators from halting a crisis, said Stephen Myrow, a former
Treasury official who is now managing director at ACG Analytics
Inc., a Washington-based investment research firm.  
 “In trying to thread the political needle and maintain
flexibility for the future, Congress is running the risk of
spooking the market today,” Myrow said.  
 Legislators at the same time are considering requiring big
banks to pay into a resolution fund for winding down
systemically important firms. Both the Senate proposal and a
House bill call for making banks pay ahead of time into such a
fund, although they differ on its size.  
 Bankruptcy Judges  
 Treasury officials also oppose giving bankruptcy judges too
big a role in the decision to take down a failing firm, and they
want to shorten the time allowed for judicial review. The FDIC
agrees, according to two officials with knowledge of the
negotiations.  
 The Senate bill would require regulators to get a
bankruptcy panel’s approval to seize a failing firm. Treasury
officials want to limit the approval process, possibly to 24
hours.  
 Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell said this week that
big financial firms ought to turn to bankruptcy, not government
assistance, when they run into trouble. Geithner has said banks
are different from other companies and need extra help with
ensuring emergency liquidity.  
 “The normal bankruptcy regime cannot work for banks,
because banks need funding to operate, even as they are being
wound down,” Geithner said in a March 22 speech at the American
Enterprise Institute. “In a crisis, there is no plausible
private source of temporary financing, like debtor-in-possession
financing for companies in bankruptcy.”  
 Compromise Effort  
 Bankruptcy judges were given a role in the Senate bill when
Dodd was working with Senator Bob Corker, a Tennessee
Republican, on a bipartisan measure. That effort fell apart, and
the banking committee ultimately passed a bill supported only by
Democrats. A congressional aide said Dodd is not wedded to the
bill’s current bankruptcy language and instead plans to work on
the issue with the Senate Judiciary Committee.  
 The House bill doesn’t include a role for bankruptcy judges
in deciding whether regulators should seize a failing financial
firm. Regulators also don’t consult bankruptcy judges during the
FDIC’s existing bank-failure process.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An emblem decorates a vault door inside the Treasury Department in Washington, D.C., on March 29, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 14 (Bloomberg) -- Senator Judd Gregg, a Republican from New Hampshire, talks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about plans to overhaul the financial regulatory system.
     President Barack Obama called House and Senate leaders to the White House today to push for progress on the rules overhaul he proposed after a financial crisis that led to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos. and $700 billion in U.S. aid for banks including Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
