-- Dynegy Has $58 Million 4th-Quarter Loss on Unit Sales
-- Jim Polson
-- 2007-02-27T21:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-27/dynegy-has-58-million-4th-quarter-loss-on-unit-sales-update5-.html

          
          
             Dynegy Inc. (DYN) , owner of power plants in
10 U.S. states, reported a fourth-quarter net loss of $58 million
tied mostly to sale of two power plants to tighten its focus on
profitable markets.  
 The loss was equivalent to 12 cents a share and compared
with net income of $298 million or 74 cents a share a year
earlier posted when Dynegy sold its natural-gas processing
business for $2.45 billion, the Houston-based company said today.
Sales fell 36 percent to $397 million as the company sold
businesses.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Bruce Williamson , 47, is buying and
selling plants to focus on the U.S. West, Northeast and Midwest,
regions where power-system planners forecast tighter supply
within two years that may result in higher electricity prices.
Dynegy expects to close on $2.3 billion of plants purchased from
LS Power Group, after a March 29 shareholder vote, expanding
capacity 69 percent to become the third-largest U.S. power
producer without a regulated electric utility.  
 ``They did a little better than I'd expected,'' said  Daniele Seitz , an analyst in  New York  for Dahlman Rose & Co. who rates
the stock ``buy'' and owns none. ``This was a transition year
because they managed to get rid of a lot of debt and were still
having a lot of write offs. The first year of normal operations
will be this year.''  
 Loss Expected  
 The net loss in 2006 was $333 million, Dynegy reported
today. Dynegy affirmed a Dec. 13 forecast for net income this
year of $190 million to $255 million. The expectation is $182.2
million, the average of two analysts  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News .  
 Costs to cut the value of plants being sold and a ruling
that increased prior-year taxes lowered fourth-quarter results by
$61 million, Dynegy said. Excluding those expenses and profit
from businesses Dynegy is exiting, the per-share loss was about 4
cents a share. The company had been expected to lose 5 cents
excluding one-time items and discontinued operations, the average
of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Seitz had expected a loss of 8 cents on that basis.  
 Earnings before interest, taxes depreciation and
amortization from Dynegy's plants in the U.S. Midwest, its
biggest fleet, rose 23 percent in the fourth quarter to $92
million as coal-fired units ran more efficiently and switched to
cheaper fuel from western mines, Williamson said in an interview.  
 Earnings from Northeaster states were $5 million in the
fourth quarter, compared with a year-earlier loss of $11 million,
as Dynegy got higher prices for the output. Loss on plants in
Southern states widened, even when write downs were excluded.  
 Shares Decline  
 In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Dynegy shares
fell 44 cents, or 5.2 percent, to $8.05. The  shares  have risen 48
percent over the past year.  
 Dynegy recorded costs of $23 million for the previously
announced sale of a Louisiana power plant to Entergy Corp., that
state's largest utility owner. It had $9 million in costs to
write down the value of Bluegrass, a Kentucky plant that's up for
sale.  
 After the acquisition of the LS  Power plants , 45 percent of
Dynegy's generating capacity will be in the U.S. Midwest, 26
percent will be in the West and 22 percent will be in the
Northeast. The rest will be in the South, Dynegy previously said.  
 Williamson is selling plants in regions where Dynegy lacks
market clout. In addition to the Kentucky plant, Dynegy may sell
its only generators in Texas and  Georgia  this year, Williamson
said today on a conference call with analysts and investors. It
intends to keep two Kentucky plants that sell power to Midwest
markets, Williamson said today in an interview.  
 Expansion  
 Acquisition of the LS Power operations adds plants and
supply contracts in  California , where the state energy commission
has forecast a 20 percent chance of a power shortage this year.
The purchases also bolster Dynegy's existing generating capacity
in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic states.  
 The acquisition of the LS Power plants will extend Dynegy's
operations to 15 states and give it more than 20,000 megawatts of
generation, enough to supply 16 million U.S. homes. The
transaction is expected to close this quarter.  
 Dynegy will borrow $275 million from $750 million in bank
credit it is arranging, using the money to pay off higher-priced
debt at LS Power, Williamson said today.  
 ``We'll be borrowing money at around 6 percent and paying
off something that's 9.5 percent.''  
 (Dynegy's earnings conference call is available at
 http://www.dynegy.com .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Dieterich at 
 rdieterich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        