-- Merrill Hires Deutsche Bank's Magnus in Singapore
-- Netty Ismail
-- 2007-02-27T04:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-27/merrill-hires-deutsche-bank-s-magnus-in-singapore-update2-.html

          
          
             Merrill Lynch & Co. hired Keith Magnus from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to head its  investment-banking 
business in Singapore and Malaysia, two people with knowledge of
the appointment said.  
 Magnus, 33, formerly the head of investment banking in
Singapore at Deutsche Bank, will report to Sheldon Trainor, who
oversees Merrill's investment banking business in  Asia , the
people said, asking not to be identified before an announcement.
Magnus' appointment comes more than 2 1/2 years after Tracey Woon, formerly Merrill's head in Singapore, left the U.S. firm to
join Citigroup Inc.  
 Merrill, the world's third-largest securities firm, also
hired Rodney Tsang, 35, from Credit Suisse as a managing director
of China private-sector coverage, the people said. He will also
report to Trainor.  
 Merrill, which ranked fourth among stock and convertible
bond sale arrangers and 15th among merger advisers in Asia
outside  Japan  last year, is seeking to bolster its business in
the region. The New York-based firm in February hired Margaret Ren, the daughter-in-law of former Chinese Premier Zhao Ziyang,
as chairman of China investment banking to expand its business in
the world's fourth-biggest economy.  
 Robert Stewart, a Hong Kong-based spokesman at Merrill,
declined to comment, as did Josephine Lee, a spokeswoman for
Credit Suisse in  Hong Kong  and Jason Collins, a Singapore-based
spokesman for Deutsche Bank.  
 Sales Advice  
 Magnus helped Keppel Land Ltd., Singapore's third-largest
developer by assets, sell S$250 million ($164 million) of
convertible bonds in May last year.  
 He also arranged $1.4 billion of merger transactions
involving Singapore companies, including advising Aabar Petroleum
Investments Co., a company based in the United Arab Emirates, on
its acquisition of Pearl Energy Ltd., a Singapore-based oil
producer, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Merrill helped Thai Beverage Pcl, Thailand's largest brewer,
raise S$1.37 billion in May last year, the biggest initial public
offering in Singapore in 13 years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in  Singapore  
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at   brichardson8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        