-- Reliant Energy Reports Its 13th Loss in 17 Quarters
-- Edward Klump
-- 2007-02-27T21:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-27/reliant-energy-reports-its-13th-loss-in-17-quarters-update5-.html

          
          
             Reliant Energy Inc., the second-
largest  Texas  power retailer, posted its 13th loss in 17
quarters after above-normal temperatures sapped demand for
electricity to heat homes.  
 The fourth-quarter net loss narrowed to $53.7 million, or
17 cents a share, from $134.1 million, or 44 cents, a year
earlier, Houston-based Reliant said today in a statement.
Revenue fell 9.8 percent to $2.34 billion.  
 Reliant, which has power plants nine U.S. states, lost
sales because of warmer-than-normal weather across much of the
nation. The average wholesale electricity price in PJM
Interconnection LLC, the largest U.S. power market, tumbled 45
percent from a year earlier to $50.62 per megawatt-hour,
according to data from Intercontinental Exchange Inc.  
 ``The fourth quarter was one of the warmest winters on
record, and essentially, power generators were less able to
dispatch'' units that run at periods of high demand, said Nathan Judge, an analyst at Atlantic Equities in  London .  
 Chief Executive Officer Joel Staff sold assets and cut jobs
to reduce debt and costs after a collapse in wholesale power
prices contributed to almost $2 billion in losses in 2002 and
2003. Reliant last week said Staff will retire as CEO in May and
be replaced by Chief Financial Officer Mark Jacobs.  
 Texas opened its power industry to competition in 2002,
creating a system where former monopoly utility companies such
as Reliant can be undercut on prices by other retailers.  
 Contract Adjustments  
 Shares of Reliant fell 44 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $16.87
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Before today, the
stock had climbed 22 percent this year.  
 The fourth-quarter loss was smaller than a year earlier
partly because of a $49 million gain in the valuation of
contracts that lock in energy prices. Reliant reported $101
million in costs in the 2005 fourth quarter to reflect a drop in
the value of the contracts.  
 Reliant records these costs and gains, called mark to
market, each quarter to reflect market prices for power and the
fuel used in producing it. The adjustments, which represent a
snapshot of what losses or gains would be if the energy
contracts were immediately liquidated, are hypothetical. Reliant
locks in profits through agreements that fix fuel costs and the
prices the company will be paid for power.  
 Excluding the latest quarter's mark-to-market gain and $37
million in debt-conversion costs, the loss was about 21 cents a
share. The company was expected to lose 19 cents a share, the
average of nine analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Asset Sales  
 Reliant, which earlier this month said it may sell a power
plant east of Houston, also may shed assets considered ``non-
strategic'' in  Florida ,  Mississippi  and  Nevada , Staff told
investors today on a conference call.  
 That category may include four plants in the three states,
said Pat Hammond, a company spokeswoman. The plant near Houston
may be sold or transferred to lenders.  
 TXU Corp., based in  Dallas , is the largest power retailer
in Texas. TXU, which yesterday said it agreed to be acquired in
a $45 billion leveraged buyout, today said its fourth-quarter
profit rose 33 percent to $475 million, or $1.03 a share.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Dieterich at 
 rdieterich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        