-- La Nina May Form by August, Produce More Hurricanes, U.S. Forecasters Say
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-07-08T14:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/la-nina-may-form-by-august-produce-more-hurricanes-u-s-forecasters-say.html

          
          
             A La Nina, or cooling of the central
Pacific Ocean, is expected to form by August, according to the
U.S. Climate Prediction Center.  
 The phenomenon can enhance hurricane development in the
Atlantic Ocean, as well as bring warmer, drying conditions
across the southern U.S. during northern hemisphere winters.  
 “The majority of models now predict La Nina conditions to
develop,” according to the report.  
 La Nina is a cooling of the equatorial Pacific Ocean
occurring on average every three to five years and lasting nine
to 12 months, according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration . Some events have lasted as long as two years.  
 Sea surface temperatures in some parts of the Pacific are
about 0.5 degree Celsius (0.9 degree Fahrenheit) below normal,
the report said.  
 The Pacific emerged from an El Nino, or sea temperature
warming, earlier this year and has now begun to cool. About 35
to 40 percent of all El Ninos are followed by a La Nina,
according to the Australian Bureau of Meteorology.  
 La Ninas enhance hurricanes in the Atlantic by damping down
high-altitude winds that can tear the storms apart as they are
forming, according to the National Hurricane Center in Miami.  
 An increase in the number of hurricanes boosts the chances
that a storm will enter the Gulf of Mexico, home to about 30
percent of U.S. oil and 12 percent of U.S. natural gas
production, Energy Department data show.  
 This year’s first Atlantic hurricane, Alex, formed last
week off the Yucatan peninsula and came ashore in Mexico about
100 miles south of Brownsville, Texas.  
 A La Nina may have a wider affect on the weather than just
hurricanes. The cooling patterns often bring dryer, warmer
weather to the southern half of the U.S., increasing the
wildfire threat in Florida and California. Florida is the
second-largest producer of oranges, behind Brazil.  
 Increased rainfall in southern Africa, northeastern South
America and the U.S. Pacific Northwest are also common during La
Ninas. The northern third of the U.S. often has colder winters
as well.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        