-- AB Foods Sees `Very Good' Earnings Progress; Primark Discount Boosts Sales
-- Louisa Fahy
-- 2010-07-08T08:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/ab-foods-sees-very-good-earnings-progress-primark-discount-boosts-sales.html

          
          
             Associated British Foods Plc  said it
is likely to deliver “very good progress” in earnings for the
full year, boosted by higher sales at its Primark discount
clothing chain.  
 Revenue from continuing operations rose 13 percent in the
16 weeks to June 19 from a year earlier, including 15 percent
growth at Primark, the London-based company said in a Regulatory
News Service statement today.  
 AB Foods opened Primark stores in Chester, northern
England, and Barcelona in Spain during the third quarter to tap
rising demand for discount clothing. The chain’s operating
profit margin for the full year is expected to be ahead of the
prior year, AB Foods said. The company also reported 44 percent
sales growth at its sugar unit and 8 percent growth at its
ingredients division for the quarter.  
 “The standout feature in this trading update is Primark,”
analysts including  Charlie Mills  at Credit Suisse in London said
in a research note. “ABF has developed a happy knack of
delivering positive trading news over the last 12 months and
this update should at the very least offer more reassurance.”
Credit Suisse has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  
 AB Foods  rose as much as 24.5 pence, or 2.5 percent, to
1,005 pence in London, and traded at 1,000 pence at 8:43 a.m.
local time, valuing the company at 7.9 billion pounds ($10
billion).  
 ‘Strong’ Trading  
 Primark saw “particularly strong” trading in Spain and
“very encouraging progress” in other continental European
stores, AB Foods said. The retailer plans to open another five
stores in Spain, England and Ireland before the year-end.  
 While the recession helps Primark, it is a “small part of
the story,” Finance Director  John Bason  said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a change in shopping habits,” he said.  
 Sugar sales were boosted by the purchase of Azucarera Ebro
in April, which made AB Foods the leading sugar producer in
Spain and Portugal.  
 Revenue at the company’s grocery unit, whose brands include
Kingsmill bread, rose 5 percent during the third quarter. Sales
of branded products are increasing amid high levels of
promotional activity, the company said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Louisa Fahy  in Dublin at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        