-- MAC Sharaf Brokerage Suspended for Three Weeks in Dubai on Rule Violations
-- Zahra Hankir
-- 2010-07-08T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/mac-sharaf-brokerage-suspended-for-three-weeks-in-dubai-on-rule-violations.html

          
          
             MAC Sharaf Securities LLC , a Dubai-
based brokerage, has been suspended from trading for three weeks
after regulators said it breached market rules, according to a
document obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 The brokerage lent clients funds to buy shares and charged
them with late payment and administration fees, the letter dated
June 21 from the Securities and Commodities Authority said,
listing the act as a violation. The suspension started June 23
and will end July 13, according to the document. The letter
mentions the names of some people who aren’t accused of
wrongdoing.  
 A MAC Sharaf “representative” told the regulator he
impersonated a client to trade shares of  Emaar Properties PJSC 
with the agreement of the head of trading, the SCA said in the
letter. Emaar has the biggest weighting on Dubai’s benchmark
stock index.  
 The suspension was for “technical and online” issues,
Mohammed Assef, head of customer service, said at MAC Sharaf’s
office in Dubai yesterday. He didn’t know about the other
issues. No one else was available for comment. An official at
the Securities and Commodities Authority declined to comment.  
 Brokerages in the United Arab Emirates are faced with
declining trading and tumbling markets, with some temporarily
freezing licenses or closing. Dubai’s  DFM General Index  has
slumped more than 80 percent from a record in 2005. About 78.4
million shares traded in the emirate yesterday, compared with a
six-month daily average of 186 million.  
 IFA Securities LLC,  a Dubai-based brokerage established by
Kuwait’s International Financial Advisors KSCC, closed this week
and plans to open in a year after finding another brokerage to
combine with. Eleven brokerages in the U.A.E. have either shut
down this year or are in the process of closing, The National
newspaper  reported  in June, citing the market regulator. There
are 91 brokerages in the country, according to the regulator’s
website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        