-- Macquarie Enters U.S. Commercial-Mortgage Business as Delinquencies Surge
-- Sarah Mulholland
-- 2010-07-08T12:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/macquarie-enters-u-s-commercial-mortgage-business-as-delinquencies-surge.html

          
          
             Macquarie Group Ltd. , Australia’s
largest investment bank, is forming a group to originate U.S.
commercial-property loans and trade securities tied to the debt,
seeking to gain a toehold as delinquencies and maturities surge.  
 Randy Reiff , who ran commercial mortgage finance and
commercial mortgage-backed securities at Bear Stearns Cos. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co., will head the New York-based group,
Macquarie said in an e-mailed statement. Reiff, 39, was most
recently president of Spartan Real Estate Capital.  
 Macquarie’s credit trading division is entering the
commercial-mortgage business amid plunging prices and record
defaults. More than $60 billion in loans bundled into bonds
mature in 2011, according to Bank of America Corp. Macquarie
aims to take part in restructurings and refinancings as the debt
comes due, said  Michael McLaughlin , head of Macquarie’s New
York-based credit trading unit and to whom Reiff will report.  
 “We want to be in a position to capture that in whatever
format it takes,” McLaughlin said in a telephone interview.  
 Borrowers are struggling to refinance with values down 41
percent from October 2007 highs, according to Moody’s Investors
Service. Late payments on commercial property loans packaged
into securities are at a record 7.5 percent, according to
Moody’s, and may reach 11 percent by yearend.  
 Macquarie, based in Sydney, intends to start originating
commercial mortgages as many banks pull away from real estate
lending, creating a void, McLaughlin said. The loans may be
pooled with others to be sold in newly issued commercial
mortgage-backed bonds, he said.  
 ‘The Big Cleansing’  
 Macquarie’s credit trading group, started in March 2008,
focuses on high-yield and distressed corporate credit, and the
bank will target similar buyers with real estate investments.  
 “A lot of commercial real estate risk is on the books of
banks and insurance companies,” McLaughlin said. “The market
has been waiting for the big cleansing.”  
 Mark Lebowitz , 44, New York-based Spartan’s director of
capital markets, and  James Conopask , 41, the firm’s chief
investment officer, are also moving to the new group. Three
other Spartan employees joining the Macquarie team are Simon
Breedon, 31, Matthew Weinstein, 28, and Andrew Flack, 27.  
 A record $251.1 billion of bonds tied to commercial
mortgages were sold in 2007 after $223.3 billion in 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales of the debt
halted in 2008 as the credit crisis sapped demand, choking off
funds to borrowers. Even with government aid, only $3.04 billion
of the debt was issued last year. About $1.67 billion has been
sold in 2010.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        