-- Adidas CEO Says Criticism of World Cup Ball Won't Affect Company Brand
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-07-08T22:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/adidas-ceo-says-players-criticism-of-world-cup-ball-won-t-affect-brand.html

          
          
             Adidas AG  Chief Executive Officer
 Herbert Hainer  said criticism of his company’s World Cup soccer
ball has “definitely” not harmed the sporting goods maker.  
 “This is always the case that before the World Cup there
are some complaints, mainly from goalkeepers,” Hainer said
yesterday in an interview in Johannesburg. “It is quite clear
the ball is faster, because the ball is rounder. Players have to
get used to it. We like that people are talking about our
products.”  
 Players have said that Herzogenaurach, Germany-based
Adidas’s Jabulani ball is unpredictable in the air and is hard
to control, accounting for some of the early mistakes made at
the tournament in South Africa.  
 “It’s rubbish,” England goalkeeper  David James , who wears
 Nike Inc.’s  Umbro brand boots and gloves, said of the ball after
teammate  Robert Green  fumbled a shot from  Landon Donovan  to
allow the U.S. to tie their June 12 match.  
 For the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, Adidas will try to make
the ball easier to control, while maintaining its speed, Hainer
said. Adidas has provided the tournament match ball since 1970.  
 “With the technology we have today we can keep the ball as
fast as it is today, and we can make it very usable for every
player,” he said.  
 Adidas and Nike, the two largest sporting goods makers,
said they experienced a “double-digit” sales boost from the
World Cup.  
 Adidas’s sponsorship of the most-watched sports event will
help it record soccer-related sales of 1.5 billion euros ($1.9
billion) this year, an increase of 15 percent from the European
Championship two years ago, Hainer said. It’s sold 6.5 million
replica jerseys and 13 million copies of the Jabulani ball.  
 World Cup ‘Winner’  
 “There is no doubt that Adidas is the winner of the World
Cup,” Hainer said. “It doesn’t matter whether you take it in
exposure for the brand, in terms of sales, or in terms of market
share.”  
 Even so, Nike brand president  Charlie Denson  said yesterday
that more than half the players playing in the tournament in
South Africa were wearing his company’s shoes.  
 “It’s been our best World Cup ever,” Denson said in an
interview. “In the last quarter, Nike brand football sales were
up 40 percent.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        