-- Maersk Chief Will Slow Pace of Acquisitions on Asset Prices
-- Christian Wienberg
-- 2010-07-09T14:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/maersk-will-slow-pace-of-acquisitions-as-asset-prices-too-high-ceo-says.html

          
          
             A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S , owner of the
largest container line, will slow the pace of acquisitions as a
lower-than-anticipated number of company failures keeps asset
prices high, its chief executive officer said.  
 “Acquisitions are not on top of our agenda now,”  Nils Smedegaard Andersen , 52, said in an interview yesterday. “This
crisis is different from previous ones, as banks hold their
hands under some companies which then avoid foreclosure.”  
 Andersen, who joined Maersk in 2007, said as recently as
two months ago that the company “absolutely” had an appetite
for more takeovers, especially of oil and gas and port
terminals. Since its $2.9 billion purchase of Royal P&O Nedlloyd
NV in 2005, Maersk has spent more than $3.3 billion on oil
fields in regions including the North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico
and at least $6 billion on developing fields in Qatar.  
 Maersk, which also owns Scandinavia’s second-largest oil
producer, a retail unit, a port operator and an oil-rig
division, raised $2.35 billion selling shares and bonds last
year to strengthen its capital and fund acquisitions. In the
past year Andersen has sold more assets than he has bought.  
 “We haven’t seen the large billion-dollar acquisitions
that might have been expected,” said  Henrik B. Lund , an analyst
at Carnegie Investment Bank A/S, who has covered Maersk for the
past 10 years. “The global sell-out of distressed companies,
which Smedegaard Andersen might have anticipated, hasn’t
materialized.”  
 Hapag Lloyd, CMA  
 CMA CGM SA, the third-largest container line, is in talks
with creditors to restructure debt. The Marseilles, France-based
company said this week that it may reach an accord with
investors this month. Hapag-Lloyd, the German shipping company
partly owned by  TUI AG , was bailed out last year by shareholders
including the city of Hamburg.  
 Shares of Maersk  fell  1.5 percent to 52,200 kroner at 4:33
p.m. in Copenhagen. The stock has  gained  43 percent this year,
compared with 20 percent for Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. and 16
percent for Nippon Yusen K.K.  
 Maersk’s terminal unit said today it bought from CMA CGM a
20 percent stake in a port facility in Mobile, Alabama that it
didn’t already own. At the same time, Maersk agreed to sell its
61 percent holding in a port in Dunkirk, France to CMA CGM.  
 Maersk could look at buying rival container lines in the
next three to five years if freight rates hold up, said Jacob
Pedersen, an analyst at Sydbank A/S in Aabenraa, Denmark.  
 Jack Field  
 In the past year, Maersk has acquired stakes in a Brazilian
and a Norwegian oil license. The company bought a 25 percent of
the Jack Field in the Gulf of Mexico from  Devon Energy Corp.  for
$300 million. The APM Terminals unit agreed to invest $120
million to develop Liberia’s port in the capital Monrovia.  
 In the same period, Maersk agreed to sell its Norfolkline
ferry unit and the U.K. Netto supermarkets. It also announced
plans to shut down its unprofitable ship-building business and
sold the yard’s Lithuanian and Estonian units. Maersk this year
sold its 13.7 percent stake in Yantian Terminal in China for
$520 million.  
 In the longer-term, Maersk “will buy more than they will
sell and they will invest heavily” in the terminals and oil
fields, said Pedersen, who has an “over-weight” rating on
Maersk’s stock.  
 “We had expected a larger number of assets, including
ships and oil rigs, to have been available,” Andersen said by
telephone from Copenhagen. “We will focus on keep improving our
business units, buying is not a priority.”  
 Double Dip?  
 Maersk yesterday lifted its 2010  profit forecast , citing
higher freight rates and cost savings. Net income, excluding
minority interests, will exceed the $3.5 billion reported for
2008 and would be the highest level since the record year of
2004, when Maersk had a $4.69 billion profit.  
 “It may also be good for Maersk to keep a strong balance
sheet if there should come a double dip in the global economy,”
said Carnegie’s Lund, who has an “outperform”  rating  on the
shares. “The recent development in the container sector has
clearly showed that things can change very quickly, so it’s
prudent for Maersk to act cautiously.”  
 The shipping market contracted in 2009 for the first time
since containerization became globalized in the 1970s, while
capacity grew as new ships, ordered during boom years, came into
service. Container unit Maersk Line lost a record $2.09 billion
that year giving the parent a $1.31 billion  loss , its first
since at least World War II.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Christian Wienberg  in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A.P. Moeller-Maersk CEO Nils Smedegaard Andersen. Photographer: John McConnico/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
