-- Maersk Raises Full-Year Forecast, Predicts Profit Exceeding $3.5 Billion
-- Frances Schwartzkopff
-- 2010-07-08T08:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/maersk-raises-full-year-forecast-predicts-profit-exceeding-3-5-billion.html

          
          
             A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S  lifted a
profit forecast, saying its container line, the world’s largest,
recovered faster than anticipated as freight prices have
returned to levels before the financial crisis.  
 Maersk  jumped  as much as 7.4 percent in Copenhagen after
saying full-year net income, excluding minority interests, will
exceed the $3.5 billion reported for 2008, the shipper said
today in a statement. That would be the highest level since the
record year of 2004, when the Copenhagen-based company had a
$4.69 billion profit.  
 “We have much better balance between supply and demand in
container trade now,” Chief Executive Officer  Nils Smedegaard Andersen  said in a telephone interview. “The whole industry has
been eager to lift rates while trade volumes also have
recovered.”  
 Maersk last month said it had started production of new
containers and leasing of others after an “unexpectedly strong
rebound” in demand led to a shortage of equipment. TUI AG this
week raised its earnings forecast for Hapag-Lloyd, the world’s
fifth-largest container line, citing a “notable recovery” in
the industry.  
 Mitsui, Nippon Yusen  
 Maersk rose 2,120 kroner, or 4.2 percent, to 53,220 kroner
at 10:08 a.m. in the Danish capital. Before today, the shares
had gained more than twice that of peers this year, climbing 40
percent. The  average increase for rivals  including  Mitsui O.S.K.
Lines Ltd.  and Nippon Yusen K.K. was 17 percent.  
 “The container business has been doing very well,”  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst at Sydbank A/S, said by phone. “The lack
of containers and sharp increase in rates are definitely
benefiting Maersk Line. This may be a signal that pricing
discipline has returned to the industry.” He has an
“overweight” rating on the shares.  
 The shipping market contracted in 2009 for the first time
since containerization became globalized in the 1970s, while
capacity grew as new ships, ordered during boom years, came into
service. Container unit Maersk Line lost a record $2.09 billion
that year giving the parent a $1.31 billion loss, its first
since at least World War II.  
 Freight rates are “currently a tad higher than in 2008,”
CEO Andersen said today, without giving numbers.  
 Global Growth  
 Maersk had been  projected  to report full-year net income of
14.6 billion kroner ($2.5 billion), according to the average
estimate of 13 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The company also
owns Scandinavia’s second-largest oil producer, a retail unit, a
port operator and a tanker division.  
 “Maersk Line is the main reason for the upgrade, but all
our units, except for tankers, are doing better,” Andersen
said. “In the container market we’re especially pleased with
the strong growth intra-Asia and on trade from Asia to Europe.
Asia is where it’s happening now.”  
 The International Monetary Fund today raised its forecast
for global growth this year, saying the world economy will
expand by 4.6 percent. The Washington-based fund previously
expected growth of 4.2 percent.  
 Maersk’s new forecast, compared with its May 12 projection
for an unspecified profit, is based on the assumption that
freight rates, oil prices and the U.S. dollar exchange rates
will remain stable, the company said. It includes an accounting
gain from the sale of shares in Yantian terminal in China, a
transaction that has been completed, Maersk said.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Christian Wienberg  in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Frances Schwartzkopff  at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        