-- Air France to Limit Capacity Growth, Reduce Workforce to Restore Earnings
-- Andrea Rothman
-- 2010-07-08T16:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/air-france-to-limit-capacity-growth-reduce-workforce-to-restore-earnings.html

          
          
             Air France-KLM Group , Europe’s
biggest airline, will limit any increase in seat capacity to
1 percent to focus on raising fares and restoring earnings,
Chief Executive Officer Pierre Henri Gourgeon said.  
 Air France will only resume paying a  dividend  after
returning to  profit , and “we’re not there yet,” Gourgeon said
today at the annual shareholders meeting in Paris. Seating will
be kept at a level that allows the carrier to increase average
ticket prices, and the company will be “conservative” about
offering new flights, he said.  
 “It seems prudent to us to keep capacity from growing
while we concentrate on ticket revenues,” the CEO said.  
 Air France’s net loss in the 12 months through March
 widened  to 1.56 billion euros ($2 billion), the carrier’s
biggest deficit in at least two decades, from 814 million euros
a year earlier. The airline, based in Paris, plans to scale back
its  workforce  by 2 percent to 4 percent in fiscal 2011 as part
of a 510 million-euro cost-savings drive, the CEO said.  
 Air France  rose  23 cents, or 2.2 percent, to 10.26 euros
in Paris trading, paring the stock’s decline this year to
6.8 percent and  valuing  the company at 3.08 billion euros.  
 The carrier is in talks with manufacturers to buy about 100
long-haul planes to replace models as they age, Gourgeon said,
without giving a timeframe. The group has 168 long-distance
airliners in a fleet of 429 planes.  
 Aircraft Prices  
 “Given the number of planes we’re expecting to order, we
expect that we will get attractive pricing,” Gourgeon told
shareholders.  
 The CEO also told investors that Mideast carriers have been
waging fierce competition to win market share from European
rivals by offering attractive fares for flights through hubs
such as Dubai to points in Asia.  
 “These carriers are not private, commercial carriers; they
are owned and financed by rich states” seeking to invest oil
revenue in other businesses, he said. Air France aims to remain
competitive through joint ventures that ensure a broad network,
he said.  
 Shareholders asked Gourgeon about safety practices in the
wake of the fatal crash last year of a plane flying from
Rio de Janeiro to Paris.  
 The airline has assembled a team of full-time experts,
including pilots, to study practices in the air and on the
ground, and suggest improvements, he said. Some cockpit changes
have been implemented, the CEO said, without giving details.  
 No conclusions have been reached about the cause of the
AF447 accident, he said. The black boxes, or flight recorders,
were never found.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Paris via 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        