-- Air China Tackles Quality Checklist to Boost Services (Correct)
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-12T03:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/air-china-tackles-100-item-services-checklist-to-narrow-gap-with-cathay.html

          
          
             (Corrects plane delivery schedule in 15th paragraph of story
published on July 9.)  
 Air China Ltd., the nation’s largest
international carrier, said it’s working on more than 100
service improvements as it competes with Cathay Pacific Airways
Ltd. and Delta Air Lines Inc. on overseas routes.  
 Targets include onboard catering, seat comfort, inflight
entertainment, call-centre operations, maintenance and cleaning,
Senior Vice President He Li said yesterday in an interview in
Beijing. The airline is also deploying a mobile-phone text
messaging system, he said.  
 “This year we want to focus on improving services,” He
said. “We couldn’t do it during the financial crisis as then we
were tied up with just avoiding losses.”  
 Air China’s plans may help it win more sales in the
nation’s international air-travel market, which the industry
regulator expects to surpass 50 million passengers a year by
2015. The improvements may also help the carrier boost first and
business-class traffic on domestic routes as the government
liberalizes pricing rules.  
 “There’s clearly still some difference in the service
quality between China’s airlines and international ones,” said
Zhang Jing, an analyst at Philip Securities (HK) Ltd. in
Shanghai. “The verdict remains open if the new fare rules will
result in better inflight services.”  
 Air China, China Southern Airlines Co. and China Eastern
Airlines Corp., the nation’s big three carriers, all have three-
star ratings from London-based Skytrax, a research company.
Delta, the world’s biggest carrier, also has three. Cathay
Pacific and Singapore Airlines Ltd. have five stars, the highest
ranking.  
 Air China rose 2.9 percent to HK$8.18 at the close of
trading in Hong Kong. The stock has gained 35 percent this year.  
 Cargo Venture  
 He also said that Beijing-based Air China expects to win
regulatory approval for the sale of a 49 percent stake in its
cargo unit to affiliate Cathay Pacific. Operations under the new
structure may begin in the second half of the year, He said.  
 “The market share for Chinese airliners in cargo is always
going down,” he said. “We want to change this.”  
 Cathay Pacific, Hong Kong’s largest carrier, will inject
four Boeing Co. 747-400 freighters into the unit as part of the
1.7 billion yuan ($250 million) deal announced in February.  
 Separate discussions have also taken place on combining the
air-freight operations of China’s big three carriers in a bid to
help bolster operations, He said.  
 “There is no consensus yet whether that is feasible and if
it can achieve its objective,” he said. He didn’t elaborate.  
 Premium Pricing  
 Air China expects a “modest increase” in the percentage
of domestic revenue from premium-class seats this year, from
less than 10 percent last year, He said, on rebounding demand
and the new fare rules. Under the new pricing structure, which
started this month, airlines no longer need to set premium fares
at a fixed percentage above economy-class ticket prices.  
 “It’s possible fares are more likely to be higher than
before, but you have got to take into consideration our extra
costs in the two classes,” He said. “Passengers flying first
and business-class also aren’t as sensitive to prices.”  
 Air China plans to expand total capacity 12 percent this
year as it adds new planes and a rebounding global economy
revives international travel, it said in April. The carrier
expects to receive 33 new planes this year, it said.  
 The airline flew 18.3 million passengers in the first five
months of the year, a 16 percent increase from a year earlier.
Last year, annual passenger numbers rose 14 percent to 41.3
million.  
 Nationwide passenger numbers may more than double to 700
million a year by 2020 from an expected 266 million this year,
Liu Shaocheng, director of policy research at the Civil Aviation
Administration of China, said yesterday at a conference in
Beijing.  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Li Xiaowei in Shanghai at 
 Xli12@bloomberg.net ;
Wing-Gar Cheng in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Laurence Barron, president of Airbus SAS's China unit, talked yesterday in Beijing with Bloomberg's Stephen Engle about China's demand for air transportation. 
     China’s number of airline passengers may more than double to 700 million a year by 2020 as economic growth spurs travel, according to the nation’s aviation regulator. This year, passenger numbers may total 266 million, Liu Shaocheng, director of policy research at the Civil Aviation Administration of China, said yesterday at a conference in Beijing. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
