-- Airline Tarmac Delays Drop as U.S. Rule Takes Effect
-- John Hughes
-- 2010-07-08T22:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/airline-tarmac-delays-fell-86-in-may-first-full-month-of-u-s-penalties.html

          
          
             U.S. airline flights stuck for more
than three hours on airport tarmacs fell 85 percent in May, the
first full month of a rule that subjects carriers to fines for
such delays.  
 Five flights were delayed three hours or longer in May,
down from 34 in the same month a year earlier, the second-lowest
total since the Transportation Department began collecting the
data in October 2008, according to a report today on the
agency’s website.  
 A rule pushed by Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  that
took effect April 29 imposes fines as high as $27,500 for each
customer when an airline fails to free passengers after three
hours on an aircraft. The rule applies to domestic flights.  
 Four of the five May delays, including an almost five-hour
wait that was the longest, were on United Airlines flights bound
for Denver and diverted to Colorado Springs, Colorado, on May
26, according to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics report.  
 Denver flights were hindered by thunderstorms and low
ceilings that day, according to FlightStats.com, which tracks
flight movements.  
 Weather led to further delays after the four flights landed
at Colorado Springs, said  Jean Medina , a spokeswoman for the  UAL
Corp.  unit.  
 “All customers were offered the opportunity to exit the
plane and were provided snacks and water as we waited for the
weather to improve and air traffic control clearance to safely
continue on to Denver,” Medina said today in an e-mail.  
 Delta Delay  
 A  Delta Air Lines Inc.  flight on May 28 from Atlanta to
Dallas was the fifth that was delayed by more than three hours,
according to the report.  
 The Transportation Department may not know for a couple
months whether the delays in May lead to fines, or if the
flights were exempt from the rules because the safety of
passengers was at risk or controllers ordered the plane not to
return to the gate, said  Tammy Jones , an agency spokeswoman.  
 U.S. carriers posted a 79.9 percent on-time rate in May,
down from last year’s 80.5 percent, according to the
Transportation Department report on scheduled flights.  
 Hawaiian Holdings Inc.’s Hawaiian Airlines had the best on-
time rate in May at 94.3 percent followed by Alaska Air Group
Inc.’s Alaska Airlines at 91.5 percent. US Airways Group Inc.
finished third at 85.3 percent.  
 Delta’s Comair Express carrier finished last of 18 airlines
that report data to the government, with 67.1 percent of flights
arriving on time. AMR Corp.’s American Eagle was second-worst at
73.1 percent followed by Delta at 75.6 percent.  
 Seattle-Tacoma International Airport  had the best on-time
performance in May, at 88.9 percent, while San Francisco
International Airport had 72.5 percent on time, the worst among
the 29 busiest airports, the Bureau of Transportation Statistics
said in the report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        