-- Taiwan's Far EasTone, China Mobile to Offer Games, Music on Mobile Phones
-- Tim Culpan
-- 2010-07-08T08:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/taiwan-s-far-eastone-china-mobile-to-offer-games-music-on-mobile-phones.html

          
          
             Far EasTone Telecommunications Co. ,
Taiwan’s third-largest telephone operator, is working with  China
Mobile Ltd.  to offer games, music and e-books on mobile phones,
President  Jan Nilsson  said in an interview today.  
 China Mobile, the world’s largest phone operator by
subscribers, and Far EasTone plan to start offering the services
to handset users in both markets “soon,” Nilsson said. The
Taipei-based company is also in talks with  China Unicom (Hong
Kong) Ltd.  to offer content, he said.  
 Far EasTone shareholders have approved the sale of a 12
percent stake to China Mobile, which in April last year agreed
to pay NT$17.8 billion ($554 million) for the stake in the
Taiwan phone company. The two carriers have said they are
awaiting the easing of the  Taiwan  government’s restrictions on
Chinese investment in the island’s communications industry to
complete the transaction.  
 The stake sale to China Mobile may be approved after an
economic cooperation framework agreement between China and
Taiwan is implemented next year, Nilsson said. The two sides on
June 29 signed the trade accord to cut tariffs and widen access
to each other’s markets.  
 “Both Far EasTone and China Mobile are patient,” Nilsson
said. “The equity is not the important part, it’s to cement our
cooperation, which is actually the important part.”  
 Far EasTone, which offers Apple’s iPhone 3GS, may offer the
iPhone 4 in the fourth quarter and the iPad in the current
three-month period, Nilsson said today. The company’s two larger
rivals,  Chunghwa Telecom Co.  and Taiwan Mobile Co. also offer
the iPhone 3GS. Chunghwa hopes to offer the iPhone 4 and iPad in
Taiwan next month, President  Chang Shaio-tung  said July 5.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        