-- Malaysia Production Growth Accelerates as Central Bank Mulls Rate Decision
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-07-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/malaysia-production-growth-accelerates-as-central-bank-mulls-rate-decision.html

          
          
             Malaysia’s  industrial production  rose
at a faster pace in May, supporting the economy’s recovery as
the central bank considers today whether it should raise
interest rates for a third time this year.  
 Production at factories, utilities and mines rose 12.5
percent from a year earlier after gaining a revised 10.7 percent
in April, the Putrajaya-based statistics department said in a
statement. That compares with the median estimate for a 10.5
percent increase in a  Bloomberg News survey  of 14 economists.  
 Stronger manufacturing buoyed growth across Asia in the
first half of 2010, a rebound that may ease as government
austerity measures in advanced nations hurt consumer and
business confidence. Economists are divided on whether the
Malaysian central bank will raise borrowing costs today as the
risk of a global slowdown threatens sales by companies from
Nissan Motor Co. to  Malaysian Pacific Industries Bhd .  
 “The stage is set for an encouraging outcome in overall
gross domestic product growth in the second quarter” for
Malaysia,  Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in
Singapore, said before the report. Still, “a gradual moderation
in industrial production growth over the coming months is
expected as external demand starts to weaken.”  
 Malaysia’s  exports  rose at the slowest pace in three months
in May, climbing 21.9 percent from a year earlier, the trade
ministry said July 2. The ringgit is Asia’s biggest gainer
against the dollar and the euro this year. It has climbed 6.8
percent against the dollar and 21.6 percent against the common
European currency.  
 External Risk  
 Prime Minister  Najib Razak  said this week Malaysia’s growth
may slow in the second half because of “external factors.”
Bank Negara Malaysia has raised interest rates by a combined
half a percentage point at its past two meetings. It will
release its monetary policy decision at 6 p.m.  
 Manufacturing sales rose 19.9 percent to 44.1 billion
ringgit ($13.8 billion) in May from a year earlier, the
Statistics Department said in a separate report today.  
 Malaysia’s manufacturing output rose 18.7 percent in May,
after a revised 15.1 percent gain the previous month. Mining
slid 0.2 percent, while electricity production advanced 11.5
percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        