-- Malaysia Raises Main Interest Rate a Third Time in `Vote of Confidence'
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-07-09T01:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/malaysia-raises-benchmark-interest-rate-for-third-time-as-growth-quickens.html

          
          
             Malaysia’s central bank raised
interest rates for the third time this year, judging the economy
is strong enough to withstand higher borrowing costs even as
threats to the global rebound grow.  
 Bank Negara Malaysia increased its  overnight policy rate  to
2.75 percent from 2.5 percent yesterday, calling the new level
“appropriate.” The monetary stance remains “supportive” of
the economy, the bank said.  
 Malaysia was the first in the region to boost borrowing
costs this year, and has moved more times than any neighbor
except India, helping make the ringgit the biggest gainer in
Asia. South Korea today joined Malaysia along with India and
Taiwan in raising rates in recent weeks, a step not yet taken by
Indonesia, China and the Philippines as Asian policy makers
juggle between containing inflation and protecting growth.  
 “By starting early, Bank Negara has earned itself the
flexibility to maneuver monetary policy and can amend its
tightening strategy if external conditions do deteriorate
significantly,” said  Ashira Perera , an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in London, who expects one more increase in 2010.
“It is a vote of confidence in the local economic upswing and
its likely resilience.”  
 The ringgit headed for a second weekly advance, gaining 0.2
percent to 3.1975 per dollar as of 9:50 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has climbed 0.9
percent this week.  
 ‘Robust’ Economy  
 Malaysia’s economy was “robust” in the second quarter,
the central bank said. “Going forward, while external
developments may result in some moderation in the pace of growth,
the domestic economy is expected to remain strong with continued
improvements in private consumption and investment, and
augmented by public investment spending,” it said.  
 The Southeast Asian nation’s move comes after the Reserve
Bank of India last week increased its key rates for the third
time since mid-March. Taiwan’s central bank raised its benchmark
in June, citing an improved economy.  
 The Bank of Korea today raised the benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate to 2.25 percent from a record-low 2 percent, the
first increase since the global financial crisis.  
 Policy makers in Indonesia and the Philippines have kept
borrowing costs unchanged. The Bank of Thailand may raise rates
at its July 14 meeting, a separate survey showed.  
 Government Austerity  
 Government austerity measures to cut debt in advanced
economies are hurting consumer and business confidence, and
about $7 trillion has been wiped from equities worldwide since
this year’s high on April 15.  
 The International Monetary Fund this week highlighted risks
to the world recovery posed by financial market turmoil and
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, even as it raised its forecast
for global growth this year.  
 “Asia has only limited direct financial linkages to the
most vulnerable euro area economies, but a stall in the European
recovery that spilled over to global growth would affect Asia,”
the IMF said. “Many regional economies also have room for
further policy maneuver and could delay the planned withdrawal
of monetary and fiscal stimulus in order to mitigate adverse
spillovers to the real economy.”  
 The Washington-based lender predicts Malaysia’s economy
will expand 6.7 percent this year and 5.3 percent in 2011.  Gross
domestic product  increased 10.1 percent in the three months
ended March 31 from a year earlier, the most in a decade.  
 Faster Production  
 Malaysia’s industrial production rose at a faster pace in
May, the statistics department said yesterday, supporting the
economy’s recovery even as Prime Minister  Najib Razak  said this
week “external factors” may hurt growth in the Southeast Asian
nation in the second half of 2010.  
 Exports  by companies such as Sime Darby Bhd. and Unisem (M)
Bhd. rose at the slowest pace in three months in May as sales to
Europe and China eased.  
 “There are good things happening in Malaysia’s economy and
the rate decision is appropriate,” said  Alvin Liew , an
economist at Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore. “Given that
we see the economy slowing down in the second half because of
the external environment, we expect the central bank to keep
rates unchanged for the rest of the year.”  
 Malaysia’s  consumer prices  rose 1.6 percent in May from a
year earlier, the biggest increase in a year. Inflation is
forecast to average 2 percent to 2.5 percent in 2010,
accelerating from 0.6 percent in 2009, the central bank
estimates.  
 Prices are expected to rise at a “gradual pace” in the
coming months as the domestic economy improves, and inflation
will remain moderate going into 2011, the central bank said.  
 Malaysia’s  rate increase  in March was the first in almost
four years. The overnight policy rate was kept at 3.5 percent
from late April 2006 until late November 2008, when the central
bank started to cut the benchmark, bringing it to a record-low 2
percent in February 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Prime Minister Najib Razak said this week “external factors” may hurt growth in the Southeast Asian nation in the second half of 2010. Photographer: Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
