-- Alcatel-Lucent, Faurecia, Telefonica, Vestas Wind: Europe Equity Preview
-- Caroline Dye
-- 2010-07-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/alcatel-lucent-faurecia-telefonica-vestas-wind-europe-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following companies’ shares may
have unusual moves in  European  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are from the last close.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained 1.4 percent to 246.06.
The  Stoxx 50 Index  rose 1.8 percent to 2,389.39. The  Euro Stoxx
50 Index , a benchmark for nations using the euro, advanced 2.2
percent to 2,634.39.  
 Alcatel-Lucent SA  (ALU FP): AT&T Inc. said software
supplied by the French telecommunications equipment provider was
responsible for slower loading speeds in certain areas of the
U.S. on some mobile devices, including the iPhone 4.  
 Etablissements Maurel & Prom SA  (MAU FP): The French oil
explorer said output from its operations in Gabon has been
“slightly above” 16,000 barrels a day since the start of July.
The company is also carrying out drilling in Colombia and
Tanzania. The shares rose 1 percent to 9.77 euros.  
 Faurecia SA  (EO FP): Europe’s biggest maker of car
interiors will set up joint ventures with Chinese companies
Geely and Limin to supply interior systems and automotive
exteriors to all Geely brands in China. The shares increased 3.9
percent to 14.44 euros.  
 Telefonica SA  (TEF SM): Spain’s largest phone company said
it wanted to keep negotiating to buy Portugal Telecom SGPS SA’s
stake in Brazil’s largest wireless operator. The European Court
of Justice in Luxembourg will make a decision on the legality of
the golden shares that the Portuguese government used to block
the deal.  
 Vestas Wind Systems A/S  (VWS DC): The world’s largest maker
of wind turbines received an order from German project developer
UKA Group for 20 of its 2-megawatt machines. Vestas will supply,
install and commission the turbines. The order also includes a
long-term full service agreement, according to a statement on
the company’s website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:  Caroline Dye  in New York
at   cdye@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        