-- Man-Made Life a Boon That May Draw Terrorists, Scientist Warns
-- Rob Waters
-- 2010-07-08T20:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/man-made-life-for-energy-drug-use-may-attract-terrorists-scientist-warns.html

          
          
             Government regulation is needed to
oversee the fast-developing synthetic biology industry, said two
pioneers in the field, Harvard scientist  George Church  and
genome researcher  Craig Venter .  
 The ability of scientists to modify bacteria and other
organisms by adding designer gene sequences may lead to faster
flu vaccines and carbon-free fuels, Church and other scientists
told a presidential  bioethics commission  meeting today in
Washington. In the hands of criminals or terrorists, the
technology may yield dangerous viruses or drug-resistant
bacteria, a risk the FBI is monitoring.  
 The expansion of synthetic biology in recent years may let
scientists create biofuels that reduce global warming and make
cheaper and more effective drugs. Federal oversight is needed to
keep track of how the science is being used and by whom to
prevent the deliberate or inadvertent release of dangerous
material, said Church, a genetics professor at Harvard Medical
School in Boston.  
 “As the costs drop and knowledge spreads, individuals or
small groups can do with biology what they currently do with
explosives, illegal drugs, and computer viruses,” Church said
in a July 6 interview. “If you have a speed limit but no one
enforcing it, you’ll have people speeding. You need to
proactively set up a radar system and surveil it.”  
 Church and Venter were among the scientists who addressed
the panel on the first of a two-day hearing on synthetic biology
held by the Presidential Commission for the Study of Bioethical
Issues.  
 Lab-Assembled DNA  
 On May 20, a team led by Venter reported in the journal
Science the creation of the first synthetic life form made
entirely with pieces of lab-assembled DNA. That day, President
 Barack Obama  asked the commission  to study  advances in synthetic
biology and report back to him within six months with
recommendations.  
 Synthetic biology advances conventional biotechnology to
enable greater “designer” control of genetic engineering. In
the biotechnology practiced today, sections of genes found in
one organism are inserted into another to accomplish a goal,
such as making a plant resistant to a pesticide. Synthetic
biologists may use computers to design gene sequences that don’t
exist in nature, have those sequences chemically synthesized,
and then insert them into the genome of existing organisms.  
 Synthetic biology may have negative environmental impacts
that need to be monitored closely, said Allison Snow, a
professor in the department of evolution, ecology and
organizational biology at Ohio State University in Columbus.
That requires disclosure about what private companies are doing,
she said.  
 Fuel From Algae  
 Venter’s closely held company, La Jolla, California-based
Synthetic Genomics Inc., has a $600 million deal with  Exxon-
Mobil Corp . based in Irving, Texas, to develop fuel from algae.
Little public information is available about how that effort
will proceed and whether algae will be grown in public waterways
or laboratory vats, she said.  
 Regulators need to take steps to prevent accidental release
of designer organisms into the environment, where they might
replicate and damage plants, animals and habitat, Snow said. A
worst-case scenario of environmental harm might result from
accidental release of synthesized algae, she said.  
 “Engineered blue-green algae could spread to lakes or
ponds, displace other species and create algae blooms” that
choke off the oxygen supply and kill fish, she said.  
 ‘Garage Biologists’  
 The current limited oversight largely stems from controls
and reporting requirements imposed on the recipients of federal
grants, Church said. That doesn’t address the burgeoning group
of “garage biologists” who are helping drive innovation in a
way similar to a previous generation of tinkerers who developed
computer technologies.  
 “The rules don’t go far enough,” Church said. “There’s a
lot more out there than federal grantees and contractors.”  
 The lack of control over who can obtain genetic sequences
and have them produced by one of a handful of companies that
custom-synthesize DNA for customers may pose risks, Venter told
the commission.  
 “If all you need is the genetic code and the computer, it
totally changes who has access,” Venter said. Students and
others “can order anything from a DNA synthesizer.”  
 “You can buy DNA synthesizers off EBay,” Venter said.  
 Companies synthesizing DNA are voluntarily screening orders
they receive to look for potentially dangerous sequences, Venter
said. This helps minimize the risk, he said.  
 Flu Vaccine  
 Using techniques of synthetic biology may enable scientists
to custom design and produce the seed stock for a flu vaccine in
less than 24 hours, Venter said. While that may speed vaccine
development, it wouldn’t resolve the slowdown from growing
vaccine inside chicken eggs, a decades-old technique that takes
weeks to complete,  Kristala Prather , assistant professor of
chemical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology in Cambridge, told the panel.  
 Among those also scheduled to testify at the hearing are
Edward You, supervisory special agent with the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation’s weapons of mass destruction directorate . The
agency has been working with academic and company researchers to
set up systems for monitoring the distribution of computer-
generated gene sequences -- the blueprints that contain the
letters of genetic code that can be used to modify an existing
organism.  
 These gene maps might be used to modify bacteria or other
organisms to create new, powerful viruses, or to engineer
bacteria that would be resistant to antibiotics, You said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  
 No Danger Yet  
 The agency doesn’t see the potential for terrorists or
criminals to use synthetic biology to develop bio-weapons as a
current danger right now, You said. “Although there is not an
identified threat today, the barrier to do harm or mischief is
getting lower” as advances in genomic technology cut the cost
of engineering gene sequences, he said.  
 Synthetic biology also may push developing countries to
devote more land to growing crops for fuel instead of food, said
Pat Mooney, executive director of ETC Group, an organization
based in Ottawa that monitors the impact of biotechnology on
society.  
 Amyris Biotechnologies , an Emeryville, California-based
company creating low-cost malaria drugs and bio-fuels, has a
venture to grow sugar cane in Brazil and ferment it with bio-
engineered yeast to develop non-petroleum diesel and jet fuel.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net ;
 Arielle Fridson  in New York at 
 afridson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Genome Researcher J. Craig Venter  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         J. Craig Venter of Synthetic Genomics Inc., speaks during a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     J. Craig Venter of Synthetic Genomics Inc., speaks during a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Harvard Scientist George Church  
                       
                         
                           Graham Ramsay/Harvard University via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Harvard scientist George Church. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Harvard scientist George Church. Photographer: Graham Ramsay/Harvard University via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
