-- Landesbanken Likely to Pass Stress Tests, Public Sector Lenders Group Says
-- Aaron Kirchfeld
-- 2010-07-08T14:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/landesbanken-likely-to-pass-stress-tests-public-sector-lenders-group-says.html

          
          
             Germany’s state-owned lenders, known
as Landesbanken, will likely pass the stress tests, according to
the  Association  of German Public Sector Banks.  
 “We expect the tests to be unproblematic and we’re pretty
relaxed,” association spokesman  Stephan Rabe  said today, adding
that the group is not directly involved in the process. The
association has heard from some members that the test scenarios
are “relatively unproblematic,” he said.  
 European Union regulators are carrying out stress tests on
91 banks, including seven Landesbanken and the same number of
other German lenders, to examine whether they can withstand a
shrinking economy and a drop in government bond values.  
 Germany’s state-owned lenders, along with Spain’s savings
banks, are often cited by market participants as “the black
hole” in any view of European banks’ capital strength, Morgan
Stanley analysts including  Huw van Steenis  said in a note to
investors on July 5.  
 Many Landesbanken, which have assets of 1.4 trillion euros
($1.8 trillion) or 15 percent of Germany’s total, are “barely
profitable,” suffered “heavy” losses during the financial
crisis, lack traditional retail deposits and have concentrated
exposures to large companies, Morgan Stanley said. There is the
general belief they may hold much of German lenders’ exposure to
peripheral Europe, it said.  
 “However, it is worth taking a step back and looking at
what support these banks have already received, before assuming
any news of a Landesbank passing any rigorous stress test is
simply not believable,” van Steenis wrote.  
 Capital Injections  
 Bayerische Landesbank , based in Munich, needed 10 billion
euros in fresh capital and received a 4.8 billion-euro risk
shield for its 17 billion-euro portfolio of asset-backed
securities from the German state of Bavaria.  
 WestLB AG has received several bailouts, including 3
billion euros in capital from Germany’s bank-rescue fund Soffin.
The Dusseldorf-based lender set up a separate bad bank to rid
itself of about a third of its assets, including toxic
securities.  
 HSH Nordbank AG, a global shipping financier, tapped
regional states for 3 billion euros in capital and 10 billion
euros in guarantees to cover potential losses.  
 Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg’s owners, including the state
of Baden-Wuerttemberg, agreed last year to inject 5 billion
euros in capital and cover potential losses of as much as 12.7
billion euros amid the financial crisis.  
 Capital Implications  
 “With large loan books and weak earnings, any stresses
against loan-loss provisioning will immediately eat into the
capital of most Landesbanks,” Morgan Stanley said. “But
investors should be aware of the recapitalization that’s already
gone on to a great extent in this sector.”  
 Germany’s bank rescue fund has 50.9 billion euros in
capital available after setting aside as much as 80 billion
euros for that purpose, according to its  website . The fund also
still has 247.4 billion euros in guarantees available from the
original total of 400 billion euros.  
 The public sector bank association doesn’t expect problems
and even if some arose, Germany has the necessary instruments to
deal with them, Rabe said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        