-- Yankees Pitcher Pettitte Supports Baseball Blood Tests for Banned Drugs
-- Barry Rothbard
-- 2010-07-08T17:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/andy-pettitte-supports-baseball-blood-tests-for-banned-performance-drugs.html

          
          
             New York Yankees pitcher  Andy Pettitte  said he’d support blood testing of Major League
Baseball players for performance-enhancing drugs.  
 Pettitte, who admitted in December 2007 that he had used
human growth hormone, said in an interview with Bloomberg Radio
that he believes the present system of urine tests is effective
in fighting drug use.  
 “I would definitely be for it but I definitely think the
program is working,” the 38-year-old left-hander said
yesterday. “What I went through personally in my own life, I
think people surely have seen that and seen what kind of
problems it can cause and hopefully the game is getting cleaned
up, that’s for sure.”  
 Pettitte, a 15-year veteran, is 10-2 with a 2.82 earned run
average and was just selected to his third All-Star team. He
said he used HGH in 2002 and 2004 to help recover from arm
injuries.  
 The MLB Players Association long has stood against blood
testing.  Greg Bouris , a spokesman for the association, declined
to comment on Pettitte’s statements.  
 In a 2008 interview with Bloomberg Radio, Yankees shortstop
 Derek Jeter  issued a strong statement in favor of blood testing.  
 “You can test whatever you want to test for,” Jeter said
at the time. “We get pricked by needles anyway in spring
training, so we have a lot of blood work to begin with.”  
 Banned List  
 In 2005, HGH was added to the major leagues’ list of banned
substances. Steroids were banned from MLB in 2002. According to
the  World Anti-Doping Agency , there is no reliable urine test
for HGH, a drug that, according to the agency’s website, “plays
a key role in muscle and organ growth.”  
 According to  MLB’s Joint Drug and Prevention Program , all
players are tested within five days of reporting to spring
training in addition to an unannounced test on a random date
during the season. All tests are done through urine samples.  
 An independent program administrator, hired in conjunction
with MLB and the union, also may conduct random testing of 1,200
players and may test up to 375 players during the off-season.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barry Rothbard  in New York at 
 brothbard@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        