-- Manhattan Apartment Rentals Surge as Local Employment Improves
-- Oshrat Carmiel
-- 2010-07-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/manhattan-apartment-leasing-surges-as-new-york-economy-adds-finance-jobs.html

          
          
             Manhattan apartment rentals more than
doubled in the second quarter from a year earlier as the city’s
job market improved and tenants gained confidence.  
 The number of leases signed surged to 5,659 in the quarter
ended June 30th, according to a report today by appraiser  Miller
Samuel Inc.  and property broker  Prudential Douglas Elliman Real
Estate .  
 “I don’t want to characterize that things are booming,
that things are fantastic, because it’s not like that,” Miller
Samuel President  Jonathan Miller  said in a telephone interview.
“I don’t know if it’s sustainable.”  
 New York City’s unemployment rate fell to a seasonally
adjusted 9.6 percent in May, the fifth consecutive monthly
decline, the state  Labor Department  said June 17. The city’s
finance industry added 6,800 jobs from the end of February
through May, the largest three-month increase since 2008.  
 Across the U.S., quarterly apartment vacancies dropped for
the first time in two years, falling to 7.8 percent from a 30-
year high in the first three months of the year, New York-based
property research firm Reis Inc. said in a separate report
today.  
 The median Manhattan apartment rent fell 3.2 percent from
the year-earlier quarter to $3,000, according to Miller Samuel
and Prudential.  
 “Part of it is a release of pent-up demand from the
abnormally low level of activity last year,” Miller said.  
 His figures don’t include landlord concessions such as a
free month’s rent or building managers paying brokers for
finding tenants. New York renters pay that cost themselves when
demand is stronger.  
 Disappearing Sweeteners  
 Such enticements are declining, according to a separate
report today by broker  CitiHabitats Inc.  Landlords sweetened
CitiHabitats deals in 28 percent of the company’s June
transactions, down from 47 percent in January, the broker said.  
 “If you’re expecting to negotiate rent, or you’re
expecting to get free rent, you’re going to have to recalibrate
your expectations,” CitiHabitats President  Gary Malin  said in a
telephone interview.  
 Alain Edery didn’t have much to recalibrate. Returning from
a year in Israel, Edery, 35, wasn’t expecting a deal. He rented
a one-bedroom with his wife and 2-year-old daughter near Union
Square in June, paying the asking rent of $3,000 without
negotiating, he said.  
 “I said I want it, and I got it,” Edery said.  
 Discounts off the advertised asking rents averaged 1.8
percent in the most recent three months, the lowest since the
third quarter of 2006, Miller said. A year ago, the discount
averaged 9.5 percent.  
 Listings Decline  
 The number of apartments listed declined 32 percent to
4,972, according to Miller Samuel and Prudential.  
 Studio and one-bedroom renters led the overall increase in
signed leases. The median rent for a Manhattan studio climbed 5
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier to $2,100 a
month. One-bedroom apartments rose 7.3 percent to a median rent
of $3,000. Two-bedrooms declined 1.1 percent to $4,499 and
three-bedrooms fell 13 percent to $6,698.  
 CitiHabitats’ report also suggested that renters of smaller
units drove the market, with average prices for studios climbing
2.6 percent to $1,811 a month. The average price for three-
bedroom apartments fell 3.4 percent to $4,478. CitiHabitats
doesn’t calculate median prices.  
 The broker estimated the vacancy rate at less than 1
percent on June 30th, compared with 1.88 percent a year earlier.  
 CitiHabitats based its report on more than 6,500 rental
deals the company handled in the second quarter. Miller Samuel
and Prudential culled information from 5,659 leases recorded by
the Real Estate Board of New York and other sources, Miller
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An apartment building stands on Lexington Avenue in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
