-- Billionaire Ambani's Reliance Big Sues India Government Over Copyright Tax
-- Kian Ganz
-- 2010-07-08T07:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/anil-ambani-s-reliance-big-entertainment-sues-india-over-copyright-tax.html

          
          
             Reliance Big Entertainment Ltd., the
film maker and distributor owned by billionaire  Anil Ambani ,
asked an Indian court to stop the government from collecting
service tax on copyright transfers as it is unconstitutional.  
 The federal tax transgresses the authority of India’s
states, which already levy a value added tax on the same
transactions, according to the writ filed at the New Delhi High
Court and heard yesterday.  
 PVR Pictures Ltd. and other Indian studios and distributors
filed similar petitions according to their lawyer Tarun Gulati.
The new service tax on copyright transfers of 10.3 percent would
apply whenever a producer acquired a right in a movie or when a
distributor sold rights to theater exhibitors or to satellite
channels, Reliance Big’s lawyer Ameet Naik said.  
 “The entire entertainment industry would be affected
because the service tax puts a burden on the entire value
chain,” Naik said.  
 Indian Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  announced the levy,
which took effect on July 1, in the annual budget on Feb. 26.  
 The petitions will be heard on August 2 for interim relief
by the Delhi High Court as the service tax on copyrights will
only become effective on August 5, said Naik.  
 “We have not received any communication whatsoever,”
Dipankar Aaron, spokesman for the Central Board of Excise &
Customs, said in an interview. Commissioner of Service Tax R.D.
Negi wasn’t immediately available for comment.  
 Reliance Big has an equity stake in  Steven Spielberg ’s
DreamWorks SKG.  
 The case is Reliance Big Entertainment Ltd. v. The Union of
India WP C 4416/2010 in the High Court, New Delhi.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kian Ganz  in Mumbai at 
 Kganz1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        