-- Manufacturing Rose 0.3% in May in Sign Economic Recovery Is Still on Track
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-07-08T08:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/manufacturing-rose-0-3-in-may-in-sign-economic-recovery-is-still-on-track.html

          
          
             U.K. manufacturing rose in May as
factories increased production of electrical and optical
equipment, a sign the economic recovery is keeping up momentum.  
 Output climbed 0.3 percent on the month, the Office for
National Statistics said today in London. That matched the median
forecast of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .
Manufacturing fell 0.8 percent in April, twice the rate of drop
previously estimated.  
 Bank of England policy makers will probably keep up
emergency stimulus today to aid an economy facing the deepest
public spending cuts in half a century at home and a debt crisis
in the euro region, its biggest trading partner. Officials want
exports to help drive growth, benefiting from the pound’s trade-
weighted drop of about a quarter since the start of 2007.  
 “The economy is gaining the benefit from the upswing in
global activity, and at the margin weaker sterling is helping,”
 Peter Dixon , an economist at Commerzbank AG in London, said in a
telephone interview. “This report does indicate that second
quarter growth is going to hold up pretty well.”  
 The pound was little changed at $1.5181 after the
announcement, and the yield on the government’s two-year bond
fell 1 basis point to 0.727 percent at 9:42 a.m.  
 Manufacturing Gains  
 Out of 13 categories of manufacturing, 12 rose on the month
and one fell. The biggest gains were in electrical and optical
equipment, basic metals and metal products, the statistics office
said. Officials attributed the scale of April manufacturing
revisions to their annual re-weighting of the production index,
as well as seasonal factors and late data.  
 Spirax-Sarco Engineering Plc , the world’s biggest maker of
steam-driven pumps, said this week that business since May 14 had
been “positive” and first-half sales were up 8 percent on the
year, led by the Americas and Asia-Pacific region.  
 Overall  industrial production , which includes utilities,
mining and quarrying and accounts for 17 percent of the economy,
increased 0.7 percent in May after a drop of the same size the
previous month. Economists predicted a 0.4 percent gain, the
median of 23 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey shows.  
 The U.K. economy expanded 0.3 percent in the first quarter
after growing 0.4 percent in the previous quarter.  
 Industrial production rose 1 percent in the first quarter,
revised down from a 1.2 percent increase, the statistics office
said. Those figures will have no impact on gross domestic product
data for the quarter, which will be published on July 12,
officials said. Revisions to other categories of GDP are due in
those estimates, an annual compendium.  
 Weaker Growth  
 Still, the International Monetary Fund has lowered its
forecast for U.K. economic growth as planned government budget
cuts threaten to pull the economy back into a recession. The
Washington-based fund sees the economy expanding 1.2 percent this
year and 2.1 percent in 2011. It previously forecast expansion of
1.3 percent and 2.5 percent for those years.  
 The Bank of England will today keep its key interest rate at
0.5 percent, according to all 60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. It will also maintain the size of its bond holdings bought
to aid the recovery at 200 billion pounds ($304 billion), a
separate survey shows. The bank will announce its decision at
noon in London.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        