-- Apartment Vacancies in U.S. Drop From 30-Year High, Reis Says
-- Hui-yong Yu
-- 2010-07-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/apartment-vacancies-in-u-s-drop-from-30-year-high-reis-says.html

          
          
             Apartment  vacancies in the U.S.
dropped in the second quarter from the previous three months,
the first quarterly improvement in two years, as private-sector
job growth boosted demand for rental housing,  Reis  Inc. said.  
 The vacancy rate for apartment properties was 7.8 percent,
down from a 30-year high of 8 percent in the first quarter and
up from 7.7 percent a year earlier, according to a report today
by the real estate research firm. First-quarter vacancies were
the highest since 1980, when Reis began tracking the data.  
 “The apartment sector is on the path towards recovery,”
 Victor Calanog , director of research at New York-based Reis,
said in today’s report.  
 The U.S. has added 882,000 jobs since the beginning of the
year. The country’s unemployment rate fell to 9.5 percent in
June from 9.7 percent the previous month, according to a July 2
Labor Department report.  
 Rental demand usually strengthens in the second and third
quarters, when most people lease apartments, Calanog said. The
recession interrupted the pattern starting two years ago as
widespread  job cuts  prompted many people to move in with parents
or friends instead of renting their own apartments.  
 The quarterly addition of occupied space, known as net
absorption, was the highest in a decade at 44,199 units, Reis
said. About 70 percent of the increase came from leasing empty
units at existing buildings, according to Reis.  
 Rents Rise  
 Landlords’ asking rents rose 0.4 percent from the first
quarter and were down 0.7 percent from a year earlier. Effective
rents, or what tenants actually paid, climbed 0.7 percent from
the prior quarter and were unchanged from a year earlier.  
 The bigger gains in effective rents relative to asking
rents “imply that concession packages are no longer increasing
and may in fact be tightening,” Calanog said. Concessions
include waiving rent for one or more months to attract tenants.  
 The increase in rents last quarter came after asking rents
fell 2.3 percent in 2009 and effective rents fell 2.9 percent,
both records since Reis began compiling the data.  
 There were still signs of weak demand in the second
quarter. More than 29,000 units of new apartment buildings came
to market with an average vacancy rate of 57 percent, Reis said.  
 New York’s second-quarter data “exemplify the uneven
nature of the recovery,” Calanog said. The city’s apartment
vacancy rate rose to 3 percent from 2.8 percent in the first
quarter. Effective rents, meanwhile, climbed 1.4 percent from
the previous quarter as New York continued to have one of the
lowest apartment vacancy rates in the U.S. The city was second
behind New Haven, Connecticut, Reis said.  
 Compared with a year earlier, apartment rents in New York
rose 0.6 percent, after falling 5.6 percent in 2009, Reis said.  
 A separate report today showed the median rent in Manhattan
dropped 3.2 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier.
Apartment rentals more than doubled in the period, according to
data from appraiser Miller Samuel Inc. and property broker
Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hui-yong Yu  in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Sam Chandan, global chief economist at Real Capital Analytics, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about the fall in U.S. apartment vacancies and the housing market.
     Across the U.S., quarterly apartment vacancies dropped for the first time in two years, falling to 7.8 percent from a 30-year high of 8 percent in the first three months of the year, New York-based property research firm Reis Inc. said in a report today. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
