-- Apple's Real `Death Grip' Is on Its Customers: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- Rich Jaroslovsky
-- 2010-07-08T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/apple-s-real-death-grip-is-on-its-customers-rich-jaroslovsky.html

          
          
             I feel so inadequate.  
 I’ve tried, Lord knows I’ve really tried. I read the blogs,
watched the videos and followed the instructions, and I just
can’t do it. I can’t make my  iPhone 4  drop a call.  
 Now don’t get me wrong: It does drop calls, or fails to
connect them in the first place, about as often as my iPhone 3GS
used to. But it does so only when it feels like it, not when I
try to make it. All that talk about how if you position the
phone this way or that, place it in your hand just so, and cover
the little black band just right, you can make the call fail --
well, you can’t prove it by me.  
 “Holding the iPhone 4 in certain ways does cause signal
loss. But that’s the case with all cell phones,” Consumer
Reports  concluded  after exploring the problem. At the risk of
being branded an iPhone apologist, the whole “death grip”
issue smells to me less like a critical product flaw than like a
desire to knock tech’s current darling from its mile-high perch.  
 Apple Inc.  is riding a winning streak of epic proportions.
Ever since the launch of the iTunes Music Store turned the
original iPod music player from success into phenomenon, the
company has moved from triumph to triumph, including the iPhone,
the iPod touch, and this year the iPad tablet computer. The only
company to rival it is probably  Walt Disney Co. ’s Pixar unit --
which, coincidentally or not, was built by Apple Chief Executive
Officer Steve Jobs.  
 Heavy-Handed  
 Apple’s success, though, is increasingly breeding a
reaction reminiscent of the scorn engendered by  Microsoft Corp. 
in the late 1990s.  
 In part, that’s because Apple seeks to assure a quality
experience for its customers by exerting an unusual level of
control over how its products are used. But it has also on
occasion crossed the line with tactics that appear heavy-handed
or bullying, as with its efforts to purge the App Store of
adult-themed software, or its response to the iPhone 4 prototype
that went missing in a Silicon Valley bar. For all Apple’s fans,
there seem to be a lot of people who’d love to see it stumble.  
 Hence the flap over the iPhone 4’s reception, which has
marred what has otherwise been, by any imaginable measurement, a
spectacularly successful rollout. Apple sold 1.7 million phones
in the first three days after it went on sale June 24. By
comparison,  Google Inc.  sold 135,000 of its much-hyped Nexus One
phones in its first 2 1/2 months, according to Flurry Inc., a
company that tracks smartphone use.  
 ‘Totally Wrong’  
 The dropped-calls issue reared up in the blogosphere within
hours of the phone’s debut. Supposedly, holding the phone in
your left hand, covering the small black seam separating pieces
of the phone’s new metal-rim antenna system, would cause the
number of bars indicating signal strength to plunge, and the
call to fail. Apple has owned up only to using a “totally
wrong” formula for calculating how many signal-strength bars to
display, a problem it says it will fix soon. In other words: All
this time, service has been even worse than you thought.  
 My own experience with the iPhone 4 hasn’t been trouble-
free. My first one showed no evidence of the improved battery
life that Jobs touted when he unveiled the device earlier this
year. To the contrary, I was unable to get through a business
day of normal use on a charge, and the phone was frequently warm
to the touch even when in standby. The Apple Store swapped the
phone for another one that so far seems cooler and longer-lived.  
 No Difference  
 Further, if the iPhone 4’s new antenna was supposed to
improve its performance as a phone, you have to conclude it
failed. In two weeks of heavy use, mostly in midtown Manhattan
and the New Jersey suburbs of New York, I’ve seen no significant
difference compared with the 3GS in its ability to complete
calls, or to maintain a connection without dropping it.  
 How much of that is because of the device, and how much is
because of  AT&T Inc. ’s network, is a question we may not be able
to answer until the iPhone makes its reported debut on the
 Verizon  Wireless network next year. I frequently hear from non-
U.S. iPhone users delighted at the reliability and clarity of
their calls. On the other hand, many a user reports being unable
to complete an iPhone call while someone using  Research In
Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry was able to connect from the same spot
over the same AT&T network.  
 In any event, I’ll keep trying to make my iPhone fail on my
demand rather than its own whim. Wish me luck.  
 ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Rich Jaroslovsky  in New York at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        