-- Hard Times Wash Up Before BP Oil in Gulf Coast Towns, Bayous
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-07-08T18:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/hard-times-wash-up-before-bp-oil-in-gulf-of-mexico-s-coastal-towns-bayous.html

          
          
                  July 8 (Bloomberg Businessweek) -- It’s supposed to be high
season in Biloxi, Mississippi, but George Griffith stands on a
stretch of beach where seagulls, tacking into a bullying
southeast wind, easily outnumber the dozen or so die-hard
tourists testing the surf.  
 “Look, nobody’s here,” says Griffith, one eye on a
bruise-blue rainstorm gathering offshore. Griffith knows the ebb
and flow of this place well. In 1986, the 47-year-old Iowa
native abandoned Midwestern winters for these warm and sugar-
sanded shores. He spent the past 13 years working his way up to
manager of R.A. Lesso Seafood, a longtime, family-owned Biloxi
shrimp processor.  
 It was, he says, a great life, until BP plc’s Deepwater
Horizon rig blew up on April 20. Now, the catastrophe that won’t
end --BP’s gusher has spewed oil into the gulf for almost three
months -- is playing out like a bad summer movie up and down the
Gulf of Mexico’s 1,631 miles of U.S. coastline.  
 May and June mark the peak of shrimp season here, says
Griffith, but Lesso’s business is off about 65 percent. Federal
and state authorities have shut fishing grounds, and hundreds of
boats that would normally be hauling in shrimp have been hired
by BP for its cleanup efforts. Lesso’s 35 employees have taken
pay cuts as processing plunged from 72,000 pounds a day to
25,000.  
 Spoiled Beaches  
 Numbers like this mount up along the northern Gulf Coast,
from Texas to the Florida Panhandle, where oil has marred dozens
of miles of shoreline. Fear of more -- federal maps show oil
menacing the shore from Terrebonne Parish, Louisiana, to Fort
Walton Beach, Florida -- is putting a dent in the Gulf’s $100
billion annual tourism industry. Anecdotally, business is off
about 50 percent at Biloxi hotels even as most of the city’s
beaches remain open. In Orange Beach, Alabama, condominium
complexes that ought to be full are half-empty. An Alabama Gulf
Coast visitor’s bureau survey on July 4 showed tourism had
plunged 50 percent from the previous year.  
 In normal years, a substantial commercial fishery helps
feed these tourists and the nation.  Louisiana fishermen  alone
catch as much as 120 million pounds of shrimp in a good year;
the wider Gulf produces about 69 percent of the nation’s shrimp
and 70 percent of its oysters.  
 Dean Blanchard, a blunt-talking 51-year-old Cajun, figures
the BP gusher has cost his Grand Isle, Louisiana, shrimp-
processing plant about $30 million in sales to date. Grand
Isle’s beaches were among the first to be hit by BP’s oil, and
he was soon shut down. “I got a death sentence from Day One,”
he says. From 90 employees, “I’m down to eight workers.”  
 Prosperity Flip-Flop  
 True, some ex-employees are skimming oil for BP, and it’s
proving far more lucrative for them than shrimping ever was.
Those lucky enough to sign on with BP are getting as much as
$2,000 a day for their boats. Others are getting BP payouts,
collecting $2,500 a month.  
 “But some of these are guys that were making $5,000 to
$6,000 a month with me,” says Blanchard. “The idea that BP is
making people whole is a lie.... They are making people that
were poor, rich, and people that were rich, poor. They’ve turned
everything upside down.”  
 For Pete Gerica, a 57-year-old New Orleans-area crab
fisherman, the spill isn’t just a blow to the economy but to his
autonomy. With about 35 percent of the Gulf’s federal waters and
57 percent of the state’s fishing grounds now closed, Gerica has
found himself fenced out of his traditional waters and stuck,
with plenty of company, in Lake Pontchartrain, just north of New
Orleans. The 40- by 24-mile brackish lake may seem large, “but
there are 40 to 50 of us in there now, with some guys fishing
300 to 500 crab traps,” says Gerica. “That’s thousands of
traps -- an unreal number. The pie is getting cut thinner and
thinner.”  
 Hanging On  
 Tinakon Dan Sananikone, 49, is feeling pressure too. A
Laotian immigrant who came with his family to the U.S. in 1976,
he founded a successful crab wholesaling operation. Before the
spill, about 20 crabbers sold to him at his docks in Lockport,
Louisiana, about 50 miles south of New Orleans. Since the spill,
he’s lost about 70 percent of his sellers; their grounds have
closed or they’ve gone to work for BP. “We’re just trying to
hang on,” he says.  
 Griffith, staring out at a thunderstorm that is now clearly
headed for the beach, says at least storms come and go. A
Katrina survivor -- he was swept from a Biloxi building by a
surge and nearly drowned -- he sees no end to the BP nightmare.
In past years he easily made $10,000, including overtime, in the
prime six weeks of the season; this year he will make about
$3,000 to $4,000. Next to go, he fears, will be his job.  
 “But it’s not just our business,” says Griffith. “It’s
hotels, the restaurants, the souvenir shops. It’s the lady we
buy our plastic bags from. She’s got a warehouse full of bags. I
feel bad for her, but we can’t buy the bags because we don’t
have anything to put in them.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ken Wells  in New York at 
 Kwells8@bloomberg.net ;
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tourists walk off the beach in Biloxi, Mississippi. Photographer: Joe Raedle/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Maggie Halsey, owner of Barefoot Weddings Inc., Fort Walton Beach, Florida. Photographer: Sage Sohier/Bloomberg Businessweek via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Roger Camardelle, owner of Camardelle Village which rents campers and boat slips in Grand Isle, Louisiana. Photographer: Sage Sohier/Bloomberg Businessweek via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Ernest Cheramie, a Cajun fisherman in Golden Meadow, Louisiana. Photographer: Sage Sohier/Bloomberg Businessweek via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Tinakon Dan Sananikone, owner of Never Enough Seafood, in Lockport, Louisiana. Photographer: Sage Sohier/Bloomberg Businessweek via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
