-- Harper Picks Waterloo's David Johnston as Next Canadian Governor General
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-07-08T16:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/harper-picks-waterloo-s-david-johnston-as-next-canadian-governor-general.html

          
          
             Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  today announced the appointment of  University of Waterloo 
President  David Johnston  as the country’s next governor general,
naming a lawyer to the position for the first time in 15 years.  
 Johnston, 69, will replace former broadcast journalist
 Michaelle Jean  as  Queen Elizabeth II ’s representative to Canada
on Oct. 1. Johnston has earned honorary doctorates from 12
universities, was McGill University’s vice-chancellor and
principal and is a member of Harvard University’s Athletic  Hall
of Fame .  
 “I pledge to be a stalwart defender of our Canadian
heritage, of Canadian institutions and of the Canadian people,”
Johnston told reporters outside Parliament today, adding he is
“proud to have this opportunity to serve Canada and our fellow
citizens.”  
 Primarily a symbolic  role  that involves greeting foreign
dignitaries and promoting charitable causes and the arts, the
job of the governor general has become more important to the
nation’s politics since a string of  minority governments  began
in 2004. That’s because the governor general has the power to be
the final arbitrator in choosing whether to trigger elections.  
 Follows Advice  
 In 2008, for example, the three opposition parties
announced a coalition that gave them the majority of seats in
Parliament and sought to oust Harper from power. Instead, Jean
decided to let Harper suspend Parliament, giving him time to
prepare a budget and save his administration.  
 By tradition, the governor general follows the advice of
the prime minister. The last time a governor general refused a
request to call elections was in 1926, leading to a
constitutional crisis. In the so-called King-Byng affair, Lord
Byng of Vimy, then-governor general, declined to call  elections 
when Prime Minister  William Lyon Mackenzie King  asked him to,
giving  Arthur Meighen , whose party had more seats in Parliament,
a chance to govern. Meighen lost a confidence vote as soon as
Parliament reconvened and King won the ensuing election.  
 The governor general is also the titular  commander-in-chief 
of Canada’s military.  
 “Mr. Johnston has a strong record of public service, a
broad base of support and an impressive list of achievements,”
Harper said in a  statement . “He has extensive legal expertise,
a comprehensive understanding of government and a deep
appreciation of the duties and tasks now before him.”  
 Harper tapped Johnston in 2008 to help determine the scope
of a public inquiry into payments former Prime Minister  Brian Mulroney  received from a German-Canadian businessman. As an
academic, Johnston specialized in securities regulation and
corporate law, and has taught courses in corporate finance and
business organization as well as labor and property law,
according to a  resume posted  on the Waterloo University website.  
 Johnston and his wife Sharon have five adult daughters and
seven grandchildren, according to the university biography.  
 Ramon Hnatyshyn, who was governor general from 1990 to
1995, was the last lawyer to fill the role.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        