-- Reid So Toxic His Son Campaigns Without Last Name
-- Lisa Lerer
-- 2010-07-09T02:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/harry-reid-so-toxic-in-nevada-his-son-runs-for-governor-without-last-name.html

          
          
             For Nevada Democrats, November’s
election may prove that something more toxic than one Reid on
the party’s ticket is two.  
 Polls show Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , 70,
struggling in his bid for a fifth term, with disapproval ratings
hovering around 50 percent. Efforts to rescue him reach to the
White House: President  Barack Obama  spoke at a campaign rally
for Reid tonight at the Aria Resort & Casino in Las Vegas.  
 Absent was the state’s Democratic gubernatorial candidate,
 Rory Reid , who was greeting supporters in the Washoe Valley more
than 450 miles away. He is Harry Reid’s son.  
 The Reids have been keeping their distance from one
another. They’ve attended few events together, and the first
statewide television advertisement for Rory Reid, 47, made no
mention of his last name.  
 Still, the family ticket “plays into the narrative that
this is not about Nevada, this is about the Reids,” said David
Damore, an assistant political science professor at the
University of Nevada-Las Vegas.  
 Harry Reid is a top national target for Republicans, who
say defeating him would underscore public discontent with
Democrats. To hold onto his seat, Reid is focusing less on his
record of guiding Obama’s priorities through the Senate and more
on benefits he’s delivered back home.  
 Reid supporters say he caught a break when  Sharron Angle ,
60, a Tea Party favorite, won the Republican primary race last
month. A former state legislator, Angle wants to dismantle the
U.S. Department of Education and has called for privatizing
Social Security for younger Americans.  
 Economic Problems  
 Still, with anti-incumbent fervor evident across the U.S.,
Reid is battling voter discontent over the economy and the
government’s efforts to fix it. Headwinds facing him include a
14 percent  unemployment rate  in Nevada, higher than June’s 9.5
percent for the U.S., and the nation’s highest  home foreclosure 
rate. One out of every 79 Nevada households was in foreclosure
in May, roughly five times the national average, according to
Irvine, California-based RealtyTrac Inc..  
 Nevada’s gaming revenue fell 10.4 percent last year,
according to the state  Gaming Control Board , the largest single-
year decline in state history. The decline followed a 9.7
percent decrease in 2008.  
 New Project  
 Obama told guests at a Democratic fundraiser in Las Vegas
tonight that Reid is a “straight shooter” who’s helped enact
policies that are moving the economy in the right direction.  
 “This is a choice between the policies that led us into
the mess or the policies that are leading us out of the mess,”
Obama said. “This is the choice between falling backward or
moving forward.”  
 Before Obama’s visit, Energy Secretary  Steven Chu  and
Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  joined Harry Reid today in
announcing a new solar energy demonstration project in the state
this morning. Not attending: Rory Reid.  
 The two Cabinet members said the elder Reid has helped make
Nevada the “point of the spear” for the renewable energy
industry in the U.S. “He knows first and foremost that Nevada
is number one,” said Salazar, speaking to an audience at UNLV.  
 Reid said the new solar site, to be located in the state’s
southwest corner, will immediately create 1,000 jobs and
eventually generate “thousands and thousands” more.  
 Rory’s Task  
 Rory Reid, in his campaigning, is trying to persuade voters
fed up with Democrats in Washington to vote for one at home -- a
task made tougher by his familial link to a national party
leader.  
 “When Harry says Rory’s on his own, do you really think
people of average intelligence are going for that?” said  Mark Amodei , the state Republican Party chairman.  
 Harry Reid has stressed that his son, who presides over
zoning issues and local budget matters from a Las Vegas office
as chairman of the Clark County Commission, is running for the
governor’s office without his help.  
 “He is my son, I care a great deal about him,” he said
after a rare joint appearance at the state Democratic convention
last month. “He will be a great governor, but he has to run his
own campaign.”  
 Some family friends say Harry Reid would have preferred
that Rory skip the governor’s race, in which he faces Republican
 Brian Sandoval , 46, the state’s former attorney general.  
 The elder Reid, though, “would never go to him and tell
him not to run, it’s just not what he would do,” said  Sig Rogich , a Nevada-based Republican consultant who is a friend of
the senator and supports his re-election. “It probably isn’t
the best situation.”  
 Campaign Paraphernalia  
 Bumper stickers and campaign banners for the younger Reid
say simply “Rory 2010.” And his  biography  on his campaign
website makes no mention of his father.  
 “He is trying to define himself as an individual aside
from his dad,” said Dan Hart, a Nevada-based Democratic
consultant. “It’s more of a search to define himself than a
repudiation of his dad.”  
 Luis Hernandez, a cab driver in Las Vegas, said having both
father and son on the ticket was a “doubled-edged sword” that
could help Rory Reid with name recognition among voters who
don’t know him as well.  
 He also said voters remain much more concerned with the
economy than family ties. Hernandez says he’s still frustrated
with Obama for comments he made last year that companies should
not use government rescue funds for trips to conventions in Las
Vegas.  
 “That really hurt us,” said Hernandez. “We need the
travelers to work.”  
 Casino Industry  
 Both Reids have built strong alliances with the state’s
 casino industry . Top donors to Harry Reid’s campaign include the
political action committees and employees of  MGM Resorts
International ,  Harrah’s Entertainment  Inc. and  Boyd Gaming Corp .  
 Rory Reid had nearly five times as much cash on hand as
Sandoval at the end of May, the most recent available figures.
He also enjoyed the exclusive support of MGM’s political action
committee, which gave him $45,000 in contributions.  
 Even as he de-emphasizes his last name, Rory Reid hopes to
benefit from his father’s work to revitalize Nevada’s Democratic
Party. Harry Reid began that quest after a strong Republican
showing in the state’s 2002 elections.  
 The elder Reid recruited women and Hispanics to run for
lower offices as a way to increase Democratic turnouts. He led
the push for Nevada to conduct a Democratic presidential caucus
early in the 2008 campaign, a decision that led the Obama
campaign to build an extensive operation in the state. Democrats
are now concentrating on getting those voters to turn out for
the midterm election.  
 “They’ve got the Cadillac of all machines,” said Amodei,
the Republican state chairman.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Democrat from Nevada, speaks after a meeting in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Democrat from Nevada, speaks after a meeting in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
