-- Martin Scorsese, Company Sued by Kenneth Starr's Receiver to Recover Fees
-- David Glovin
-- 2010-07-08T21:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/martin-scorsese-s-firm-to-be-sued-by-kenneth-starr-s-receiver-judge-told.html

          
          
             The receiver for firms once
controlled by jailed money manager  Kenneth I. Starr  sued
filmmaker  Martin Scorsese  and his production company for about
$600,000.  
 The complaint, filed today by receiver  Aurora Cassirer  in
New York state court in Manhattan, said Scorsese’s Sikelia
Productions Inc. owes the Starr companies payment for
bookkeeping, accounting and other services.  
 “I want to get the victims made whole,” Cassirer said
after a hearing today in Manhattan federal court.  
 In a related criminal case, Starr, 66, is charged with 20
counts of wire fraud and one each of securities fraud, money
laundering and fraud by an investment adviser. He is being held
without bail and denies the charges. If convicted of wire fraud,
Starr faces as much as 20 years in prison.  
 He was arrested May 27 and accused of defrauding clients,
including heiress Rachel “Bunny” Mellon, in a scheme to buy a
$7.5 million Manhattan apartment. Prosecutors expanded the
allegations in a subsequent indictment.  
 “Martin Scorsese’s Sikelia Productions has paid substantial
fees to his former business manager’s firm, and if it has been
determined that there is anything still outstanding, it will be
rectified,” Michelle Benson, a spokeswoman for the Oscar-winning
director of “The Departed” and “Goodfellas,” said in an e-
mail.  
 ‘Substantial Claims’  
 Cassirer was appointed as receiver of Starr Investment
Advisors and Starr & Co. after the Securities and Exchange
Commission filed a lawsuit in May. At today’s hearing, U.S.
District Judge  Sidney Stein  put the regulator’s lawsuit on hold
until the conclusion of the criminal case while authorizing
Cassirer to pursue assets that may be returned to Starr’s
clients.  
 Neither Starr nor a lawyer for him appeared on his behalf.
Attorney  Abbe Lowell , who previously said he may represent
Starr, sat in the gallery during the proceeding.  
 In a report to Stein today, Cassirer said Starr’s firms are
no longer capable of conducting business and have “few if any
assets of significant value.” Still, she said there are
“substantial claims” she may pursue.  
 Cassirer said all of Starr’s clients have ended their
relationship with him and that she has recovered about $128,000
in fees that were owed to Starr’s companies, along with other
assets. The receiver also disclosed that a Starr-owned company
called Pastar LLC made a $1.39 million deposit on the purchase
of a $13.9 million apartment on East End Avenue in Manhattan in
August 2007.  
 Second Apartment  
 “The contract has never closed and Pastar LLC’s right to
obtain the return of its deposit is in dispute,” she wrote in
her report.  
 In the Scorsese lawsuit, Cassirer says the director and
Sikelia agreed to pay Starr’s companies 5 percent of at least
$11.9 million in earned income from 2006 to 2010. Also, Starr’s
companies made interest-free loans to Scorsese and Sikelia, the
complaint says.  
 Scorsese’s account manager left Starr’s companies in
January and took the director’s business with him, the complaint
says. After that, the account manager told Starr that Scorsese
wouldn’t pay the $597,958 that Scorsese owed and would pay only
$144,300 over two years, the complaint says.  
 Cassirer said in her report that a few other clients, whom
she didn’t identify, have also failed to pay fees owing to
Starr’s firms.  
 The suit is Cassirer v. Sikelia Productions, New York state
Supreme Court (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Starr,
1:10-cr-520, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Glovin  in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        