-- Asian Airlines May Post First Profit in Three Years on Economy, Group Says
-- Chan Sue Ling
-- 2010-07-08T05:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/asian-airlines-may-post-first-profit-in-three-years-on-economy-group-says.html

          
          
             Singapore Airlines Ltd. , Cathay
Pacific Airways Ltd. and other Asian airlines will likely post
the first region-wide profit in three years as the economic
rebound spurs traffic to pre-recession levels, a trade group
said.  
 Airlines in the region, which lost a total of $11 billion
in the past two years, may also return to profitability faster
than peers in the U.S. and Europe,  Andrew Herdman , director
general of the  Association of Asia Pacific Airlines , said in an
interview today. He declined to give a full-year profit estimate.  
 “U.S. carriers have been struggling with a very large,
slow-growing market and on top of that, a downturn,” Herdman
said by phone from Kuala Lumpur, adding that “the recovery in
Europe is still anemic.”  
 Prospects at airlines are improving as Asia’s economies
emerge from the worst recession in six decades, spurring demand
for air travel and cargo shipments. Asia’s major economies will
grow by 8.7 percent this year, outpacing the 3.1 percent and 1
percent expansion in the U.S. and Europe respectively, according
to estimates by the International Monetary Fund.  
 China Airlines Ltd., Taiwan’s biggest carrier, said last
month it expects to report a profit this year, while  Cathay
Pacific,  Hong Kong’s largest airline, said in May it expects
“strong” financial results for the year, as the economic
rebounds lifts demand for premium passenger travel and cargo.  
 “Profits at airlines in the region will remain strong,”
said  Jay Ryu , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mirae Asset
Securities Co. “Traffic growth will continue into the second
half, along with load factors.”  
 Record Earnings  
 Korean Air Lines Co.  and  Asiana Airlines Inc. , South
Korea’s two largest carriers, may post record earnings this year,
benefiting from a pickup in cargo demand, while profits at
Cathay Pacific and Singapore Air may return to pre-crisis levels,
Ryu estimated.  
 Korean Air  shares have risen 45 percent this year, as of
the close of trade yesterday, while  Asiana ’s have more than
doubled in the period. Cathay Pacific has climbed 8.4 percent
this year through yesterday.  
 Capacity increases for the next six months will likely lag
behind the growth in traffic as airlines in the region seek to
boost profits, according to Herdman. In Asia, passenger traffic,
or the total distance it carried paying customers, for the first
five months of the year was 11 percent higher than a year
earlier, while cargo was up 36 percent, he said.  
 Adding Capacity  
 “Airlines will continue to add capacity in the single
digits and they will be watching load factors and bottom line,”
Herdman said. “There’s still latent capacity in terms of under-
utilized aircraft. On top of all this, you’ve got about 4 to 5
percent capacity increases from new aircraft coming in.”  
 Fleet utilization is 5 percent below pre-recession levels
for single-aisle planes and 8 percent lower for wide-body jets
after 100 aircraft were taken out of storage during May and 93
were delivered new, according to IATA.  
 Herdman’s association represents 17 airlines in the region,
including Cathay Pacific, Singapore Air and Korean Air,
according to its  website . The airlines in the group account for
about 18 percent of global passenger traffic and 30 percent of
air cargo movements, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Sue Ling  in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        