-- Bowen Says ASIC to Take Over Australian Market Supervision From Aug. 1
-- Shani Raja
-- 2010-07-08T08:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/asic-starts-australia-markets-supervisory-role-aug-1-minister-bowen-says.html

          
          
             The Australian Securities and
Investments Commission will take over supervision of real-time
trading on domestic licensed markets on Aug. 1, Financial
Services Minister  Chris Bowen  said.  
 “I am pleased to say I have spoken with industry bodies
and market participants and they have expressed to me their
broad support for ASIC’s readiness to take on the new role,”
Bowen said in Sydney today. “Australia’s financial market is
well prepared for this handover of responsibility.”  
 The Senate voted in March to hand oversight of real-time
trading to ASIC from  ASX Ltd. , which has been responsible for
operating and supervising Australia’s national stock exchange
under self-regulation arrangements in place since 1998. The
government has said the transfer of additional powers to the
markets regulator will pave the way for rival exchange operators.  
 ASX’s role had been to investigate possible breaches of its
rules and refer the most significant to the regulator, while its
own conduct was overseen by ASIC. The commission will now be
responsible for both supervision and enforcement of the laws
against misconduct on Australia’s financial markets.  
 “It’s important to establish the new regime as soon as
possible,” said  Tim Schroeders , a portfolio manager at Pengana
Capital, in a telephone interview today ahead of Bowen’s
announcement. “The transfer of powers to ASIC from the stock
exchange will allay fears of a perceived conflict of interest
and will increase market confidence.”  
 London, Euronext  
 Chi-X Global Inc., an electronic-trading-platform, this
year won preliminary government approval to become Australia’s
first rival to ASX. Chi-X Australia Pty. is hoping to start
operating in early 2011, the local unit’s chief operating
officer  Peter Fowler  said in e-mailed comments yesterday.  
 Chi-X was the first so-called multilateral trading facility
to challenge traditional bourses, including Deutsche Boerse AG,
London Stock Exchange Group Plc and NYSE Euronext, by offering
lower fees and faster trading. Chi-X Global, a holding company
for the regional units, is owned by  Instinet LLC , a subsidiary
of Nomura Holdings Inc.  
 ASIC Chairman  Tony D’Aloisio  said in August last year
that he expected financial markets globally to be more heavily
regulated in the wake of the global financial crisis.  
 Twenty-three ASX staff will take up positions at ASIC with
the transfer of responsibility, the exchange operator said in a
separate statement. ASX is retaining a subsidiary, to be renamed
ASX Compliance, to monitor and enforce ASX operating rules after
the transfer.  
 Kevin Lewis has been appointed group executive and chief
compliance officer, starting July 19. Alan Cameron will remain
chairman of ASX Compliance.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        