-- Audi First-Half Sales Expansion Beats BMW, Daimler's Mercedes-Benz on U.S.
-- Andreas Cremer
-- 2010-07-08T13:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/audi-first-half-sales-expansion-beats-bmw-daimler-s-mercedes-benz-on-u-s-.html

          
          
             Volkswagen AG ’s Audi luxury brand
beat first-half sales gains at  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and
 Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz Cars as the automaker’s A3 compact
and A5 mid-size model attracted U.S. buyers.  
 Audi’s global deliveries of cars and sport-utility vehicles
jumped 19 percent in the period from a year earlier, the
Ingolstadt, Germany-based manufacturer said today.  BMW , the
world’s biggest luxury-car maker, reported a 13 percent 
increase, while second-ranked Mercedes-Benz, including the 
Smart city-car brand, posted a 12 percent gain.  
 The VW division, which sold 554,950 vehicles in the half,
aims to dethrone BMW as the top luxury-car manufacturer by 2015,
part of the Wolfsburg, Germany-based parent company’s target of
overtaking  Toyota Motor Corp.  as the world’s biggest automaker
within eight years. The Mercedes-Benz brand remained ahead of
Audi with 556,700 deliveries, a gap of 0.3 percent.  
 “The U.S. market is very robust indeed, and the market is
reviving faster than we thought,” said  Hans-Peter Wodniok , an
analyst at Fairesearch GmbH & Co. in Bad Soden, Germany.
“Luxury makers are benefiting from a revival of the company-car
and car-leasing segment, and Audi seems to be somewhat at the
forefront of that development.”  
 First-half U.S. sales at Audi rose 28 percent to 48,440
vehicles, with June deliveries increasing 14 percent, the
company said. Demand for the A3 and A5 in the country more than
doubled, according to  figures  Audi released on July 1. Global
sales were also helped by a 57 percent increase in Asian and
Pacific countries, including a 64 percent jump in China, and by
gains of 22 percent in the U.K. and 17 percent in Spain.  
 New 5-Series  
 BMW and its Mini and Rolls-Royce divisions sold 696,026
cars and SUVs in the first half, with a new version of the 5-
Series sedan and the top-end 7-Series car bolstering the
namesake brand’s 14 percent growth, the Munich-based company
said today. The Rolls-Royce super-luxury unit tripled sales in
the period to 970 cars, with a more than fivefold gain in June.  
 Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz Cars division sold 607,400
vehicles in the first half. The Mercedes-Benz brand gained by 15
percent, led by growth of 23 percent in the U.S. and 62 percent
in Asia and the Pacific, on updated versions of the E-Class and
S-Class sedans. Smart’s sales dropped 17 percent to 50,700 cars.
The small-car brand plans to introduce a new version of its sole
model, the Fortwo, to the media in July.  
 “BMW may enjoy the greatest growth dynamics among premium
makers over the next 6 to 12 months, thanks to Chinese and U.S.
market expansions and their product range,” said  Juergen Pieper , an analyst at Bankhaus Metzler in Frankfurt. “However,
Audi and Mercedes may have the edge over BMW in 5 to 10 years as
they benefit from the sheer size of VW and Daimler, which may
prove enormously beneficial in such areas as purchasing and
cost-cutting.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Lavell  in Frankfurt at 
 tlavell@bloomberg.net ;
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Audi AG's diesel A3 TDI luxury car sits on display at the LA Auto Show in Los Angeles. Photographer: Armando Arorizo/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 15 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Poppy Trowbridge reports on an increase in demand for luxury cars after sales at Porsche AG, Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Tata Motors Ltd.'s Jaguar rose in the first quarter. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
