-- Australian Dollar Has Biggest Weekly Gain in Nine Months on Growth Signs
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-07-09T19:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/australian-dollar-is-near-two-week-high-as-jobs-gain-commodities-advance.html

          
          
             Australia’s dollar rallied the most
on a weekly basis in nine months against the greenback as
evidence the global economic recovery is intact boosted demand
for higher-yielding assets.  
 The New Zealand dollar rose this week against the yen as
equities and  commodities  climbed. The Australian dollar touched
at a two-week high against the greenback yesterday after a
report showed the nation added three times as many workers last
month as economists estimated. European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday the economic recovery is
gaining momentum.  
 “From the Australian perspective, sentiment has
improved,” said  Roland Randall , an analyst at Toronto-Dominion
Bank in Singapore. “Interest-rate markets will be surprised to
the upside in Australia because we will have a rate rise, which
is not currently being priced in. That should be Aussie dollar-
positive.”  
 The Australian dollar was at 87.59 U.S. cents at 3:08 p.m.
in New York, compared with 87.74 cents yesterday, when it
touched 87.91 cents, the highest level since June 22. It climbed
4 percent this week, the most since the five days ended Oct. 9.
The Aussie was little changed at 77.57 yen. New Zealand’s dollar
traded at 71.04 U.S. cents and advanced 3.2 percent for the
week, the most since May 2009. The kiwi gained 0.4 percent today
to 62.90 yen.  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was headed for a weekly
rally of 5.3 percent. The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw
materials advanced 2.4 percent for the week.  
 Trichet’s Stance  
 Trichet said Europe’s economy is stronger than some
investors think and signaled the central bank doesn’t intend to
do more to fight the sovereign debt crisis for now.  
 “There is a tendency from the outside to be excessively
pessimistic” about Europe, Trichet said at a news conference in
Frankfurt after the ECB left its benchmark rate at a record low
1 percent. “The figures don’t confirm this pessimism.”  
 Australia’s employment rolls rose by 45,900 in June, a
statistics bureau report showed yesterday. The median estimate
of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for an increase
of 15,000. The jobless rate was 5.1 percent, the least since
January 2009.  
 “Pessimism on the global growth outlook eased,”  John Kyriakopoulos , head of foreign-exchange strategy in Sydney at
National Australia Bank Ltd., wrote in a research note today.
“Further improvement in investor risk appetite encouraged the
selling of safe-haven currencies such as the yen and the U.S.
dollar in favor of high-yielding, global-growth-sensitive
currencies such as the Australian and New Zealand dollars.”  
 The Reserve bank of Australia on July 6 left its overnight
cash rate target at 4.5 percent for a second month and said
consumer spending and business investment are expanding. Swaps
traders are betting the RBA will raise its target rate by 0.14
percentage point during the next year, a Credit Suisse Group AG
 index  shows.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        