-- Australia's Biggest Employment Surge Since 2006 Stokes Rate-Increase Bets
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-07-08T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/australia-s-biggest-employment-surge-since-2006-stokes-rate-increase-bets.html

          
          
             Australia’s biggest quarterly
 employment gain  in four years added to pressure on the central
bank to resume the most aggressive round of interest-rate
increases among Group of 20 members in coming months.  
 Payrolls jumped by 104,500 in the three months through
June, driving the jobless rate to a 17-month low of 5.1 percent,
the statistics bureau said yesterday. The report came two days
after central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled he’s prepared
to hold off for now on another rate move.  
 Investors are shifting wagers on the Reserve Bank of
Australia to lift  borrowing costs  to combat inflation that
Stevens this week forecast will surpass his target. Traders late
yesterday saw an 18 percent chance of a quarter-point move Aug.
3, according to Bloomberg calculations based on interbank
futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange. Prior to the jobs
report, contracts signaled no chance of an increase in 2010.  
 “These numbers will certainly concern the RBA,” said
 Helen Kevans , a Sydney-based senior economist at JPMorgan Chase
& Co., the only bank surveyed by Bloomberg that predicted
Stevens’s decision to begin in October the first of six interest
rate increases. “Wage growth inevitably will accelerate.”  
 Australia’s currency jumped to its highest level in a week,
trading at 87.42 U.S. cents as of 4:30 p.m. in Sydney yesterday
from 86.71 cents just before the report was released. The
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 2.4 percent, paced by shares of
Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd., the nation’s biggest furniture and
electronics retailer, which advanced 5.8 percent.  
 Stevens’s Pause  
 Signs of a rebound in Australia’s economy, one of few
including China and India to skirt last year’s global recession,
prompted the central bank to increase the benchmark rate by 150
basis points to 4.5 percent between early October and May.
Stevens kept the rate unchanged this week and in June to gauge
potential fallout from Europe’s debt crisis.  
 Unemployment at almost half the level of the U.S. and
Europe also bolsters Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s hopes of
winning an election this year. So far, there are few signs that
the turmoil overseas is affecting the domestic economy.  
 Australia’s  gross domestic product  is forecast to rise 3.5
percent in 2011, after gaining 3 percent in 2010, the
International Monetary Fund said yesterday. By contrast, growth
among all advanced economies will slow to a 2.4 percent pace in
2011 from 2.6 percent this year, the fund said.  
 A report published this week showed Australia had its
largest trade surplus in May in 14 months, boosted by exports of
coal and gold.  
 Neighbors Help  
 “The Australian economy is well placed to benefit from our
proximity and links to the world’s fastest growing region,”
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said yesterday in a statement.  
 Employers have added almost 330,000 jobs since August,
including 45,900 in June, yesterday’s report showed. That was
more than three times the 15,000 median gain forecast by
 analysts  in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 The jobless rate at 5.1 percent has fallen below Japan’s,
which was 5.2 percent in May, for the first time since
Australia’s statistics bureau began collecting monthly
employment data in 1978. U.S. unemployment was 9.5 percent last
month.  
 Domestic growth is also being fueled by government spending
on roads, railways and schools. “Thousands” of jobs will be
created around the nation as work is accelerated on the
government’s national broadband network, according to the
company set up to build and operate the service.  
 NBN Hires  
 NBN Co. chief executive  Mike Quigley  said this month that
as many as 425 people will be employed in Melbourne at the
company’s headquarters by early next year.  
 “If you are worried about inflation, these numbers are
telling you there’s very limited spare capacity in the labor
market,” said  Su-Lin Ong , senior economist at RBC Capital
Markets Ltd. in Sydney.  
 An August increase in the benchmark rate by Stevens “must
be on the cards” if a report due July 28 shows a “reasonably
high” inflation rate, Ong said.  
 The mining investment boom the central bank predicts will
last more than a decade may accelerate after companies including
Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd.  reached an agreement last week
with Prime Minister Gillard on a new resources tax, ending a
dispute that cost her predecessor  Kevin Rudd  his job and paving
the way for an election this year.  
 Employment surged the most in Western Australia, where
companies such as  Chevron Corp.  are expanding energy projects to
meet Asian demand. The state saw employers boost payrolls by 1.8
percent, more than four times the national gain of 0.4 percent,
driving the region’s jobless rate to 4 percent. Payrolls rose
0.4 percent in New South Wales and 0.3 percent in Queensland,
yesterday’s report showed.  
 “The economy is making the transition off the fiscal
support and on to the resources stimulus,” said  David de Garis ,
a senior economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Glenn Stevens, governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia, speaks during a meeting in Melbourne. Photographer: Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
