-- Australia's Employers Added More-Than-Estimated 45,900 Employees in June
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-07-08T02:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/australia-s-employers-add-workers-for-fourth-month-as-economy-strengthens.html

          
          
             Australian  job growth  capped the best
quarter in almost four years in June, stoking the nation’s
currency and stocks and heightening odds that the central bank
will have to resume boosting interest rates.  
 The 45,900 increase last month exceeded all 22 forecasts in
a Bloomberg News  survey , a statistics bureau report showed in
Sydney. The jobless rate held at 5.1 percent from the revised
reading for May, marking the first time it’s below Japan’s level
since at least 1978, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 A strengthening job market may escalate pressure on
inflation, which central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  said two
days ago is likely to accelerate above his target range. Today’s
report is also a boost to Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , who
plans to call an election in coming months and has already
pulled her party ahead of the opposition in opinion polls.  
 “Far from the economy slowing from the weight of interest-
rate rises, it’s actually accelerating,” said  Adam Carr , a
senior economist at ICAP Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “Clearly
they’re going to hike again -- it’s just a question of when,
with August still the best bet. Stevens is faced with forecasts
of a double dip recession globally versus the reality of a very
strong economy” at home, he said.  
 Dollar, Stocks  
 The Australian dollar rose to 87.35 U.S. cents at 12:18 p.m.
in Sydney, its highest level in more than a week, from 86.71
cents just before the report was released. The two-year
government bond yield rose 5 basis points to 4.77 percent. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index extended gains and rose as
much as 2.4 percent to 4,354.90 after the release of the report.  
 Australian employers have added almost 330,000 jobs since
August, today’s report showed. The number of full-time jobs
gained 18,400 in June and part-time employment advanced 27,500.  
 Australia’s jobless rate at 5.1 percent has fallen to its
lowest level since January 2009, and is less than the 5.2
percent reported by Japan for May. U.S. unemployment was 9.5
percent last month.  
 The local jobs boom is set to continue this year after a
report showed on July 5 that advertisements for vacant positions
rose in June for a second month, according to Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  
 Australia’s central bank has increased the benchmark rate
six times to 4.5 percent since early October from a half-century
low of 3 percent, citing an economic expansion it forecasts will
almost double to 4 percent in the next two years fueled by
China’s demand for iron ore and energy.  
 Government Spending  
 Domestic growth is also being fueled by government spending
on roads, railways and schools. “Thousands” of jobs will be
created around the nation as work is accelerated on the
government’s national broadband network, according to the
company set up to build and operate the service.  
 NBN Co. chief executive  Mike Quigley  said this month that
up to 425 people will be employed in Melbourne at the company’s
headquarters by early next year.  
 Robust demand for workers may prompt Stevens to resume
increasing borrowing costs later this year to prevent wage
pressures from stoking inflation.  
 “If you are worried about inflation, these numbers are
telling you there’s very limited spare capacity in the labor
market, you are approaching full employment,” said  Su-Lin Ong ,
senior economist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney.  
 An August increase in the benchmark rate by Stevens “must
be on the cards” if a report due July 28 shows a “reasonably
high” inflation rate, Ong said.  
 Western Australia  
 Employment surged the most in Western Australia, where
companies such as  Chevron Corp.  are expanding energy projects to
meet Asian demand. The state saw employers boost payrolls by 1.8
percent, more than four times the national gain of 0.4 percent,
driving the region’s jobless rate to 4 percent. Payrolls rose
0.4 percent in New South Wales and 0.3 percent in Queensland,
today’s report showed.  
 Consumer price gains are likely to exceed 3 percent gains
in the “near term,” Stevens said July 6, above the top of his
2 percent to 3 percent target range. He also said the current
benchmark interest-rate setting is “appropriate,” pending
further information about economic growth and prices.  
 A mining investment boom the central bank predicts will
last more than a decade may accelerate after companies including
Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd.  reached an agreement last week
with Prime Minister Gillard on a new resources tax, ending a
dispute that cost her predecessor  Kevin Rudd  his job and paving
the way for an election this year.  
 Boost for Gillard  
 “She’ll be very happy” with today’s employment report,
said ICAP’s Carr. “It does strengthen the government’s
position.”  
 Labor leads the opposition by 53 percent to 47 percent,
according to a Newspoll published in the Australian newspaper on
June 28. Some 53 percent preferred Gillard as prime minister,
compared with 29 percent for Opposition leader  Tony Abbott , the
poll, with a 3 percentage point margin of error, showed.  
 A report published this week showed Australia had its
largest trade surplus in May in 14 months, boosted by exports of
coal and gold.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Australia's Prime Minister Julia Gillard prepares to speak at the Lowy Institute for International Policy, in Sydney. Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
