-- Hays Climbs After Recruiter Increases Net Fees in International Markets
-- Hannah Roberts
-- 2010-07-08T09:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/hays-climbs-after-recruiter-increases-net-fees-in-international-markets.html

          
          
             Hays Plc , the U.K.’s largest
recruitment company, rose the most since April 2009 in London
trading after reporting improved trading in its fiscal fourth
quarter, driven by international markets.  
 Hays climbed  as much as 7.4 percent. Net fees, or payments
from clients less the payroll costs of workers, in the period
ended June 30 rose 14 percent from a year earlier, the London-
based company said in a statement today. Net fees for the Asia
Pacific region increased 53 percent.  
 The recruitment company is focusing on international
markets as the U.K. struggles to recover from its worst
recession since World War II. Net fees declined 6 percent in the
U.K. and Ireland, Hays said today. The company is planning to
expand into the U.S. and Mexico later this year, Chief Financial
Officer  Paul Venables  said on a conference call.  
 “We had all-time record months’ performances in Japan,
China and Singapore,” he said. “In the U.K. there was weakness
in parts of the public sector, recovery in the private sector
was much broader. We start the financial year with an improved
outlook in nearly all our markets.”  
 The U.K. will shed 610,000 public workers over the next
five years, according to figures released last month. Prime
Minister David Cameron has pledged to cut public employee
numbers to reduce the budget deficit, arguing that private-
sector growth will compensate for the reductions.  
 Hays rose  as much as 6.7 pence to 97.25 pence and traded at
95.4 pence as of 10:12 a.m. The stock has dropped 8.4 percent
this year, giving the company a market value of 1.32 billion
pounds ($2 billion).  
 International Expansion  
 The recruitment company is planning to establish its Mexico
operation toward the end of September, Venables said. Its U.S.
unit, which will focus on recruitment for the pharmaceuticals
industry, will be set up in the last few months of this year, he
said.  
 Hays said that all its Asian divisions were now performing
at levels that existed before the economic crisis. The company
isn’t planning on entering any new markets in Asia, Venables
said on the call.  
 China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy, expanded
11.9 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, the
fastest pace in almost three years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hannah Roberts  at 
 hroberts9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        