-- Banca Monte Paschi di Siena May Fail Bank Stress Test, Credit Suisse Says
-- Niklas Magnusson
-- 2010-07-08T15:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/banca-monte-paschi-di-siena-may-fail-bank-stress-test-credit-suisse-says.html

          
          
             Deutsche Postbank AG ,  Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA  and most of Greece’s largest lenders are the
only publicly traded banks that may fail European stress tests
and be forced to raise capital, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  
 An economic downturn combined with losses on government
bonds would force Deutsche Postbank to raise 1.36 billion euros
($1.72 billion) in capital to meet Tier 1 capital requirements
of 6 percent, while Banca Monte dei Paschi would need 592
million euros, Credit Suisse analysts led by  Daniel Davies  wrote
in a note to clients today. National Bank of Greece SA,  Piraeus
Bank SA , Agricultural Bank of Greece SA and TT Hellenic Postbank
SA would together need a total of 2.61 billion euros, it said.  
 “Across our coverage universe, we see little chance of any
of the large non-Greek banks failing a stress test,” Credit
Suisse said in the note. “Greek banks would only fail in the
event of a severe haircut on their sovereign-debt holdings.”  
 Piraeus spokesman  George Marinopoulos  wasn’t immediately
able to comment. Calls to National Bank, Agricultural Bank and
Deutsche Postbank went unanswered and Banca Monte dei Paschi di
Siena declined to comment.  
 The tests on 91 of Europe’s banks are designed to assess
how they will be able to absorb losses on loans and government
bonds, the  Committee of European Banking Supervisors  said late
yesterday. Lenders that account for 65 percent of the European
Union banking industry will be tested, including 14 German
banks, 27 Spanish savings banks, six Greek banks, five Italian
banks, four French banks and four British banks, CEBS said.  
 Greek Haircut  
 Regulators have told lenders the assessments may assume a
loss of about 17 percent on Greek government debt, 3 percent on
Spanish bonds and none on German debt, said two people briefed
on the talks who declined to be identified because the details
are private. The results are due to be released on July 23.  
 Deutsche Postbank  shares declined 0.6 percent to 24.54
euros at 4:51 p.m. in Frankfurt trading, while Banca Monte dei
Paschi was little changed at 97 euro cents.  National Bank  of
Greece rose 5.5 percent to 9.6 euros and Piraeus Bank gained 2.9
percent to 3.87 euros on the Athens stock exchange.  
 In its tests of European banks, Credit Suisse used a
“comprehensive mark-to-market approach” in which it assumed
that the regulators will require all sovereign-debt portfolios
to be marked to the current credit default swap curve, minus 3
percent, rather than imposing “quantitative haircuts.” In a
scenario only taking into account the impact of sovereign debt
losses and excluding a macro-economic downturn, only Piraeus and
 Agricultural Bank  would need to raise new capital, it said.  
 ‘Significant Stresses’  
 “No bank in our coverage universe ends up requiring
recapitalization to meet a 6 percent headline Tier 1 hurdle
rate, except ATE and Piraeus,” Credit Suisse said. Publicly
traded banks have “small enough sovereign exposure and large
enough Tier 1 capital to withstand significant stresses.”  
 The Greek banks included in the stress tests are  National
Bank of Greece SA , the country’s largest lender, EFG Eurobank
Ergasias SA, the second-largest, Alpha Bank SA, Piraeus,
Agricultural Bank and TT Hellenic Postbank SA.  
 “On our calculations, Alpha Bank and Bank of Cyprus appear
to be the least impacted, whereas National Bank of Greece and
Piraeus could suffer the most,” HSBC Pantelakis Securities SA
analyst  Dimitris Haralabopoulos  said in a note to clients today.  
 Capital Shortfall  
 A 17 percent haircut to the value of Greek government bonds
would shave some 30 percent, or 7.5 billion euros, off the
equity and capital of the Greek and Cypriot banks included in
the stress tests, Haralabopoulos said. That would lead to a
decline of about 3 percentage points to their Tier 1 ratio,
leaving it just below 8 percent, compared with 10.7 percent in
the first quarter of this year, said Haralabopoulos.  
 The capital shortfall resulting from such a haircut would
only “be sizeable” if the banks are forced to maintain a 10
percent Tier 1 capital ratio, Haralabopoulos said. In such a
scenario, the Cypriot and Greek banks included in the tests
would lack as much as 5.8 billion euros in capital, he said.  
 “In any case the Financial Stability Fund, created as part
of the 110 billion-euro European Union/International Monetary
Fund bailout package for Greece, has been designed to inject up
to 10 billion euros in capital to the sector, if needed,”
Haralabopoulos said. “Hence the FSF would more than cover the
estimated impact to our universe’s capital from the application
of a 16 to 17 percent haircut to Greek government bonds.”  
 Tier 1 ratios measure a bank’s ability to absorb losses.  
 Some analysts have a more downbeat assessment of European
banks’ ability to withstand losses on loans and sovereign debt.  
 Allied Irish  
 Deutsche Bank AG analyst  Matt Spick  in London said a number
of banks, including Allied Irish Banks Plc and Bank of Ireland
Plc, Germany’s Commerzbank AG, Greece’s National Bank and
Eurobank and Italy’s Banca Monte dei Paschi die Siena and  Banco
Popolare SC  may fail the European stress tests because they
wouldn’t meet the required Tier 1 ratio of 6 percent.  
 The scenario being tested by European regulators on 91
European banks “assumes a 3 percentage point deviation of gross
domestic product” for the EU compared with the European
Commission’s forecasts and a “deterioration of sovereign risk”
affecting government bonds, according to the CEBS statement.  
 “We expect most of the listed banks we cover to pass a
stress test, even one that includes some sovereign default,” MF
Global analysts led by  Simon Maughan  said in a note today,
citing factors such as capital and profitability as well as
sovereign debt. “Those at greatest risk of failing” include
Bank of Ireland and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA , they
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Niklas Magnusson  in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        