-- Bank of England Keeps Rate, Bond Holdings Steady as Inflation Debate Grows
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-07-08T11:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/bank-of-england-keeps-rate-bond-holdings-steady-as-inflation-debate-grows.html

          
          
             The Bank of England kept its  bond-
stimulus plan  in place and left its benchmark interest  rate  at a
record low to help prevent the economic recovery from stalling
during the biggest budget squeeze since World War II.  
 The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor  Mervyn King ,
held the target for its asset-buying plan unchanged at 200
billion pounds ($303 billion) today, as predicted by all 35
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The bank also kept its
 key interest rate  at 0.5 percent.  
 Officials are weighing the risk of  inflation  against the
danger that government spending cuts to tackle the record budget
gap will push the  economy  back into a recession. A split has
emerged within the central bank, with  Andrew Sentance  voting for
an interest-rate increase last month, the first push for policy
tightening in almost two years. The International Monetary Fund
yesterday cut its forecast for U.K. growth through 2011.  
 “I really doubt anyone joined Sentance in voting for a
rate increase,”  Brian Hilliard , a London-based economist at
Societe Generale SA and a former central bank official, said in
a telephone interview. “I wouldn’t rule out more people joining
him as the year goes on, but it’s conditional on the lifting of
clouds over the European and U.S. growth outlooks.”  
 All 60 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted no
change in the Bank of England rate today.  
 ‘Cautious’  
 The European Central Bank also left its main interest  rate 
unchanged at 1 percent, it said after a meeting in Frankfurt.
The U.S. Federal Reserve will keep its benchmark rate near zero
through this year, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  
 The pound stayed lower against the dollar today after the
announcement and was down 0.3 percent to $1.5142 as of 12:47
p.m. today in London. The U.K. currency has fallen 6.4 percent
this year. The 10-year gilt yield declined two basis points to
3.33 percent.  
 Today’s MPC interest-rate decision is the first since
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  announced an
emergency budget on June 22 to tackle the record  budget deficit .
The spending-cut program will slice 85 billion pounds from
expenditure, equivalent to 5.7 percent of gross domestic
product, according to Institute for Fiscal Studies estimates.  
 Marks & Spencer Group Plc , the U.K.’s largest clothing
retailer, said yesterday that it is “cautious” about the
outlook for consumer spending after reporting slowing sales
growth in the 13 weeks through July 3.  
 Consumer Confidence  
 Consumer confidence  fell to a six-month low last month, GfK
NOP said on June 30, while Halifax reported today that  house
prices  fell the most in four months.  
 The new IMF forecasts see the U.K. economy expanding 1.2
percent this year and 2.1 percent in 2011. That compares with an
April projection for growth of 1.3 percent and 2.5 percent.  
 MPC member  Adam Posen  said last week that the U.K. economy
is “tentatively” recovering and risks falling back into
recession because of the tightening of budgets across Europe.  
 Officials want exports to help drive growth, benefiting
from the pound’s trade-weighted drop of about a quarter since
the start of 2007.  Manufacturing  rose in May as factories
increased production of electrical and optical equipment, the
Office for National Statistics said today.  
 ‘Intense’  
 The committee voted 7-1 on June 10 to keep its main
interest rate unchanged. Sentance favoured an increase to 0.75
percent, arguing that inflation was proving to be “resilient”
after the recession. Others on the committee said that financial
market developments pointed to a shift in the risks “slightly
to the downside,” according to the minutes of the meeting.  
 “I think the debate on the committee must be reasonably
intense at the moment,”  David Page , an economist at Investec
Securities in London, said in an interview before the decision.
“As the economic recovery continues, there will be ever deeper
divides emerging.”  
 U.K.  inflation  accelerated to a 17-month high in April and
was at 3.4 percent in May, above the government’s 3 percent
upper limit. Part of the increase is due to the  weaker pound  and
higher oil prices. The currency has lost about a quarter of its
value on a trade-weighted basis since the start of 2007, making
imports more expensive.  
 Still, there was some evidence this month that price
pressures have decreased as the effects of fluctuations in
commodity and currency costs abate. U.K. shop prices increased
in June at the slowest annual pace in three months, according to
the British Retail Consortium, which said the “era of shop-
price volatility seems over for now.”  
 Today’s meeting was the second consecutive one that the
rate-setting panel met without its full complement of nine
members. The U.K. Treasury on July 5 appointed  Martin Weale ,
currently director of the National Institute of Economic and
Social Research in London, to replace  Kate Barker , whose term on
the panel ended May 31. Weale will take part in the rate-setting
meeting for the first time next month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     BOE Governor Mervyn King. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
