-- Berkshire's Rise Draws Sell Call: Chart of Day
-- David Wilson
-- 2010-07-08T14:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/berkshire-s-rise-draws-first-sell-call-in-years-chart-of-the-day.html

          
          
             Berkshire Hathaway Inc., run by
billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , became a victim of its own
success when a brokerage analyst reduced the company’s shares to
“sell” for the first time in six years.  
 The CHART OF THE DAY compares the year-to-date performance
of Berkshire’s Class A stock and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
in the top panel. Both were set to 100 at the start of the year.
The percentage-point gap between the shares and the index is
displayed in the bottom panel.  
 When the latter reaches 30 points, Berkshire’s shares are
typically “at a turning point for a correction,”  Meyer Shields , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., wrote today in a
report. This year’s differential peaked at 29 points on June 30.  
 Shields reduced the stock’s rating to “sell” from
“hold.” He was the first  analyst  to do so since April 2004,
when Gary Ransom made a similar downgrade, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Ransom was an analyst at Fox-Pitt Kelton
Inc. at the time. He later left the firm.  
 Berkshire’s second-half earnings are likely to suffer as
U.S. economic growth slows, Shields wrote. In addition, falling
share prices will be a “double whammy” by reducing the value
of its stock holdings and equity-derivatives contracts, he
wrote.  
 “Fair value” for the  Class A shares  is about $104,000, or
13 percent lower than yesterday’s close, according to Shields.
His estimate amounts to $69.33 for each  Class B share , which
closed yesterday at $79.92.  
 EVA Dimensions LLC also has a “sell” rating on Berkshire,
Bloomberg’s data show. EVA’s calls on U.S. stocks are “purely
formulaic and quantitative,” according to the research firm’s
 Web site .  
 (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        