-- Berkshire Lowered to `Sell' by Stifel on `Blah Shaped' Economic Recovery
-- Hugh Son
-- 2010-07-08T13:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/berkshire-lowered-to-sell-by-stifel-on-blah-shaped-economic-recovery.html

          
          
             Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc.  was cut to “sell” by Stifel Nicolaus & Co. on the
prospect a slowing economic recovery may pressure revenue at
operating units and weigh on equity holdings.  
 Berkshire, with subsidiaries including sellers of bricks,
electric power and auto insurance, faces a “blah-shaped
recovery,” analysts led by  Meyer Shields  wrote today in a
research note. Shields, who previously rated Omaha, Nebraska-
based Berkshire a “hold,” cut his estimate for 2010 earnings
to $5,685 from $5,764 per share.  
 “Declining consumer confidence will slow consumer
spending, as  employment  very slowly recovers,” the analysts
said. “Our weak macroeconomic outlook implies poor second-half
2010 earnings.”  
 Buffett, the 79-year-old chairman of Berkshire, executed
takeovers and stock picks to transform his firm over four
decades from a failing textile mill into a company with a market
value of almost $200 billion. Berkshire owns businesses
including railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe and auto insurer
Geico Corp. and has stakes in firms including credit-card lender
 American Express Co.   
 Berkshire’s Class A shares  fell $761, or 0.6 percent, to
$119,128, at 9:33 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The company has advanced 20 percent this year, compared
with the 4.3 percent slide in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  
 Employment Decline  
 The U.S. recovery may slow in the second half of this year
after smaller-than-forecast growth in private payrolls for June
capped a month of data indicating weakness in industries from
housing to manufacturing. Employment fell by 125,000 workers,
the first drop this year, reflecting government census cutbacks,
Labor Department figures last week showed.  
 Berkshire’s insurance units may have lower gains from
reserve releases, which benefited the company when claims were
lower than expected, the analysts said. “We see that as
unsustainable” in a market where prices for some commercial
coverage are declining, they wrote.  
 Four analysts  recommend  that investors hold shares of the
company, while two say sell and one says to add shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said last month that Berkshire was a “buy” because its
earnings will improve as the economy recovers.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        