-- BHP-Mitsubishi, Prime Infrastructure Shut Berths at 2 Hay Point Terminals
-- Ben Sharples
-- 2010-07-08T03:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/bhp-mitsubishi-prime-infrastructure-shut-berths-at-2-hay-point-terminals.html

          
          
             BHP Billiton-Mitsubishi Alliance and
Prime Infrastructure Group shut berths at two terminals at
Australia’s Hay Point port, the world’s biggest export harbor
for coal, to carry out planned maintenance.  
 Prime shut Berth 2 at Hay Point port’s Dalrymple Bay in
Queensland on July 6 and the closure will last until July 28,
Inchcape Shipping Services Pty said on its website. The BHP-
Mitsubishi Alliance’s Hay Point terminal berth shutdown started
yesterday and will last until Aug. 10, BHP Billiton Ltd.
spokeswoman  Fiona Martin  said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Hay Point port has two terminals and the capacity to export
129 million metric tons of coal a year. QR National will shut
down the Goonyella rail system servicing the harbor from July 14
to July 18 for scheduled maintenance, it said today. The network
is the busiest in Queensland and connects 22 mines operated by
producers including  Xstrata Plc , Rio Tinto Group and Peabody
Energy Corp.  
 The closure of one of four berths at Dalrymple Bay is
unlikely to have a “material impediment” on exports, General
Manager of operations  Greg Smith  said in an e-mailed response to
questions. The terminal has a capacity of 85 million tons and
about 80 percent of the coal shipped is used for steelmaking.  
 Hay Point terminal has two berths and a capacity to export
44 million tons of steelmaking coal a year. The BHP Billiton-
Mitsubishi Alliance is conducting work on a fender, a cushioning
device that absorbs impact. The alliance, known as BMA,
is a joint venture between  BHP  and Tokyo-based Mitsubishi Corp.  
 Rail Maintenance  
 Any impact from the berth closure at Hay Point terminal
will be reflected in BHP’s next production report, Melbourne-
based Martin said in an e-mailed response to questions. BHP, the
world’s biggest mining company, is scheduled to release its
fourth-quarter report on July 21, according to its  website .  
 Maintenance on the Goonyella rail network has been planned
for a year and agreed by all users of the system, QR
National said in an e-mailed statement. QR is Australia’s
largest coal transporter and owned by the Queensland government.  
 QR National transported a record 186 million metric tons of
coal on its Queensland railroads in the year ended June 30, the
Brisbane-based company said yesterday. Hay Point port is about
1,000 kilometers (620 miles) north of Brisbane.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        