-- BNP Paribas Small-Cap Japan Fund Increases EightfoldWith Swedish Insurer
-- Satoshi Kawano
-- 2010-07-08T03:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/bnp-paribas-s-fund-of-small-japanese-companies-increases-assets-eightfold.html

          
          
             BNP Paribas SA ’s fund of small
Japanese companies increased assets eightfold last month after
an investment by a Swedish life-insurance company, lured by its
bet that smaller stocks will benefit from an earnings recovery.  
 The net asset value of BNP’s  Fortis L Fund  Equity Small
Caps Japan rose to 7.5 billion yen ($85 million) in June after a
60 million-euro ($76 million) investment by the insurer,  Gentoku Kiyokawa , who runs the fund at BNP in Tokyo, said yesterday. The
insurer, which he declined to name, has 10 billion euros in
assets at its insurance division, he said.  
 The fund, taken over by Paris-based BNP when it acquired
parts of Fortis this year, holds 76 Japanese stocks whose market
value ranges from 30 billion yen to 300 billion yen. Kiyokawa
said such shares will benefit as a recovery in earnings at large
companies leads to improved jobs, wages and sentiment.  
 “The investor was interested in this asset class and went
along with our investment strategy and scenario for the stock
market,” Kiyokawa said. “Small-cap funds in Japan often invest
in companies, pursuing a dream of the future of the companies,
but our fund focuses on valuations.”  
 The stocks in Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average trade at an
average price of 17.7 times estimated earnings, compared with
15.3 times for companies in the  Topix Small Index . The Small
index is based on the broad Topix index and excludes its 500
biggest companies.  
 Information-Technology Spending  
 The BNP Paribas fund rose 0.02 percent this year to
yesterday, compared with a drop of 0.04 percent for the
Russell/Nomura Small Cap Index and ranking it 31st out of 54
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Japan’s  Nikkei
225 Stock Average  tumbled 12 percent in the same period.  
 It will take a few more years for the stock market to
recover from the slump that began with the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008, according to Kiyokawa.
The Nikkei 225 dropped 16 percent since then to yesterday.  
 Shares of information-technology companies account for more
than 15 percent of Kiyokawa’s  holdings , a monthly report for
clients in May showed, and he’s betting they will benefit from
increased spending. His fund holds shares of Itochu Techno-
Solutions Corp., Internet Initiative Japan Inc., CSK Holdings
Corp. and IT Holdings Corp.  
 The Bank of Japan’s quarterly Tankan survey showed last
week that large businesses aim to boost investment by 4.4
percent in the year ending March 31, the first increase in three
years, and they expect profit to rise by 21.6 percent.  
 “We will likely see increases in IT investment later this
year,” said Kiyokawa. “Domestic stocks should advance in the
late stage of the economic recovery, as improving employment and
wages follow gains in exporters’ profits.”  
 To contact the reporters on the story:
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
 Satoshi Kawano  in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        