-- HBO `Pacific' Miniseries on World War II Leads Emmy Nominations
-- Rob Golum
-- 2010-07-08T19:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/hbo-pacific-miniseries-on-wwii-leads-emmy-nominations-glee-is-second.html

          
          
             “The Pacific,” the HBO miniseries
about World War II from  Steven Spielberg  and  Tom Hanks , captured
24 Emmy nominations to lead the shows vying for television’s
most-coveted awards.  
 “Glee,” the Fox network show about a high-school glee
club, came in second with 19 nominations, the Academy of
Television Arts & Sciences said today in Los Angeles. “Mad
Men,” the AMC series about a Madison Avenue advertising agency
in the 1960s, was third with 17.  
 HBO, owned by  Time Warner Inc. , garnered the most
nominations with 101. Among cable networks,  Cablevision Systems
Corp. ’s AMC was second with 26.  Walt Disney Co. ’s ABC was first
among broadcasters with 63 nominations, garnering 14 for
“Modern Family” and 12 for “Lost,” the fantasy series about
island castaways that concluded this year.  
 In 10 parts, “The Pacific” was produced by the creators
of “Band of Brothers,” the HBO miniseries about 101st
Airborne’s role in World War II in Europe. “The Pacific” told
the intertwined stories of three Marines as the U.S. battled
Japan.  
 The show was produced by Spielberg’s DreamWorks, HBO Films
and Playtone, Hanks’s production company, according to IMDB.com,
an entertainment-industry website. The Emmys are scheduled to
air Aug. 29 on NBC.  
 “Glee,” a first-season show on  News Corp. ’s Fox, was
ranked among the 20 most-watched in weekly ratings from Nielsen
Co. Nominations for the program included best comedy series and
nods for actors Matthew Morrison and Lea Michele.  
 “Modern Family,” another newcomer, corralled comedy
nominations for the series and several cast members.  
 Conan O’Brien  was nominated for best variety series for his
short-lived run as host of “The Tonight Show” on NBC.  
 Among broadcasters, CBS came in second with 57 nominations.
NBC, owned by General Electric Co., had 48, and Fox had 47.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Golum  in Los Angeles at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        