-- BofA Hires Fidelity Executives to Expand $500 Billion Retirement Business
-- David Mildenberg
-- 2010-07-08T18:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/bofa-hires-fidelity-executives-to-expand-500-billion-retirement-business.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp ., the largest
U.S. bank by assets, hired two Fidelity Investments executive
vice presidents to expand its $500 billion retirement-services
business.  
 Rich Linton , 42, was named head of business-retirement
solutions and  Steve Ulian , 46, was appointed head of
institutional retirement and benefits solutions, the bank said
today in an internal announcement obtained by Bloomberg and
confirmed by spokesman  Matt Card . They will report to  Andrew Sieg , head of retirement and philanthropic services at the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank.  
 Bank of America is pressing its corporate bankers and
15,000 Merrill Lynch financial advisers to sell retirement plans
to clients, including the 4 million small businesses that have
accounts with the lender. More than half of U.S. employees
working for companies with fewer than 100 employees had access
to an employer-sponsored retirement plan last year, according to
a June report by the bank.  
 “Retirement is a focus for us,” Sieg said in a telephone
interview. Growth in new retirement-plan assets managed by the
bank increased more during the first half of this year than in
all of 2009, he said.  
 Advisor Alliance  
 Linton will oversee the Advisor Alliance unit that offers
Merrill Lynch investment and record-keeping services to more
than 40,000 businesses employing 900,000 workers, according to
the announcement. He was executive vice president of Fidelity’s
adviser retirement group.  
 Ulian will focus on 401(k) and defined-benefit plans at
mid-sized and large companies. He was executive vice president
in sales and relationship management for the workplace at
Fidelity.  
 Sallie Krawcheck , who joined Bank of America as head of
global wealth and investment management last August, named
former Citigroup Inc. colleague Sieg last September to lead the
retirement and philanthropic services business.  
 Fidelity named Michael Harger to succeed Linton, while  Jeff Lagarce , head of retirement sales and relationship management,
will take on Ulian’s duties, spokesman  Vincent Loporchio  said.
Fidelity, based in Boston, manages $1.5 trillion in assets and
is the largest U.S. mutual fund company,  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        