-- 
Obama, Holder Cease Defending `Unconstitutional' Defense of Marriage Act

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-02-24T05:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/boston-federal-judge-rules-u-s-defense-of-marriage-act-unconstitutional.html
The Obama administration said it
will no longer oppose court challenges to the Defense of
Marriage Act, which prohibits the federal government from
recognizing same-sex marriages for purposes of taxes, social
security and other programs.  U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  wrote yesterday to House
Speaker John A. Boehner, an Ohio Republican, to announce the
executive branch’s new position on the 15-year-old law.  While Holder’s letter explains the administration’s
objection to defending the law specifically in two lawsuits in
federal courts in New York and Connecticut, he also said the
Justice Department will advise courts handling other challenges
to the act that the administration no longer supports it.  “I will instruct department attorneys to advise courts in
other pending Defense of Marriage Act litigation of the
president’s and my conclusions” that the law’s definition of
marriage as between a man and a woman is unconstitutional,
Holder said in a statement. Members of Congress “who wish to
defend the statute may pursue that option,” he said.  In October, the administration said it was appealing
rulings in federal court in  Massachusetts  that the act was an
unconstitutional violation of states’ rights. Recent lawsuits
challenging the law “have caused the president and the
department to conduct a new examination,” according to the
letter. In his statement, Holder said the law will remain in
effect until Congress repeals it or a court issues a final
ruling striking it down.    Bill Clinton   The marriage-defining act, popularly known as DOMA, was
signed into law by President Bill Clinton in 1996. As of 2003,
it affected 1,138 federal programs in which marital status was a
factor in eligibility for benefits, according to a 2004 report
by the federal government.  Since the law was enacted, five states and the  District of
Columbia  have approved gay marriage, while others allow civil
unions.    Michael Steel , a spokesman for Boehner, said in an e-mail
he questions why President  Barack Obama  “thinks now is the
appropriate time to stir up a controversial issue that sharply
divides the nation” when “most Americans want  Washington  to
focus on creating jobs and cutting spending.”  Obama has long opposed the law, said Jay Carney, the White
House press secretary. While the president views the law as
unfair, he’s still “grappling” with his views on same-sex
marriage, Carney said. Obama reviewed Holder’s recommendation on
the issue “and concurred,” Carney said.  No Such Precedent  Holder said in his letter that defending the Defense of
Marriage Act in the lawsuits at issue would require the  Justice
Department  to support limiting marriage to heterosexual couples
in cases where a regional federal appeals court has set no such
precedent.  Citing a history of discrimination against gays and
lesbians, Holder said “the President and I have concluded that
classifications based on sexual orientation warrant heightened
scrutiny,” and must therefore be “substantially related to an
important government objective.”  Applying that standard, Holder said the legislative record
underlying the law’s passage “contains numerous expressions
reflecting moral disapproval of gays and lesbians and their
intimate and family relationships -- precisely the kind of
stereotype thinking the Equal Protection Clause is designed to
guard against.”  Edith Schlain Windsor, the plaintiff in the New York case,
married another woman, the late Clara Spyer, in  Canada  in 2007,
according to her complaint. While  New York  legally recognized
their marriage, and afforded them the same protections as other
married couples, the two women weren’t considered married under
federal law, she said.  Federal Tax Law  The case claims that under U.S. tax law, the transfer of
money and property doesn’t trigger any estate tax on a spouse
who is widowed. Because of the Defense of Marriage Act, Windsor
was forced to pay more than $350,000 in taxes that she wouldn’t
have had to pay if her marriage to Spyer had been recognized
under federal law, according to the complaint.  Joanne Pedersen, who filed the Connecticut complaint, is a
retired civil employee of the Department of the Navy’s Office of
Naval Intelligence who married another woman in  Connecticut  in
December 2008. Pedersen said she was denied permission to enroll
her spouse, Ann Meitzen, in the Federal Employees Health
Benefits Program because Meitzen didn’t qualify as a family
member under DOMA.  Pedersen said that while Meitzen, who has suffered from
recurrent bouts of pneumonia, wanted to work only part-time, she
can’t afford to give up her full-time job’s health insurance
benefits, according to the complaint.  ‘Leadership, Integrity’  Gay rights groups including the National Gay and Lesbian
Task Force welcomed Holder’s announcement, while initial
reaction among U.S. lawmakers was along partisan lines.  New York Representative Jerrold Nadler, a Democrat, praised
Obama and Holder for “their leadership, integrity and
courage.”  Their decision “marks the first time that the federal
government has recognized that the law designed to harm gay
Americans “cannot be justified,” Nadler, who has sponsored
legislation to repeal the law, said in a statement.  Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican who chairs the House
Judiciary Committee, called the Justice Department’s decision to
stop defending the law “irresponsible.” Smith said in a
statement “this is the real politicization of the Justice
Department when the personal views of the president override the
government’s duty to defend the law of the land.”  The cases are Windsor v. U.S., 1:10-cv-8435, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York, and Pedersen v. OPM, 3:10-
cv-1750, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 