-- BP Stages a Comeback in Credit Markets
-- John Glover
-- 2010-07-09T18:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/bp-bonds-rebounding-as-default-swap-curve-inversion-eases-credit-markets.html

          
          
             BP Plc  is staging a comeback in
credit markets as investors, who three weeks ago priced in more
than 40 percent odds the energy company would be forced into
bankruptcy, speculate that mounting costs from the biggest oil
spill in U.S. history will be contained.  
 BP’s $1 billion of 4.75 percent notes due in 2019, which
plunged almost 25 cents to as low as 80.5 cents on the dollar in
the two months following the April explosion in the Gulf of
Mexico, have gained 10 cents as they climb for the seventh
straight trading day. Credit-default swaps protecting against a
BP default for a year declined for the eighth day, falling by
more than half from their peak four weeks ago.  
 Bondholders are gaining confidence that London-based BP
will stem the flow of as much as 60,000 barrels of oil a day
into the Gulf as soon as this month, giving the market a means
to begin estimating the financial toll. BP may stanch the gusher
within the next four days by accelerating installation of a
tight seal between the damaged wellhead and surface production
vessels, National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said today.  
 “People can make much more of an investable story out of
it right now,” said  Matthew Eagan , a money manager at Loomis
Sayles in Boston, which oversees $145 billion in equity and
fixed-income assets. “There is a bit of hope built into the
prices here. But people are saying we can see the light at the
end of the tunnel, and we’re willing to make that leap of
faith.”  
 Credit-Default Swaps  
 While it still costs more to protect BP bonds against
default for one year than it does for five, the difference has
narrowed to the tightest since June 22. Five-year credit-default
swaps, which reached 594 basis points on June 29, now trade at
372, the lowest in a month, CMA DataVision prices show. That
implies a 27 percent chance of default within five years,
assuming a 40 percent recovery on the debt, according to CMA.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of government debt fell 2
basis points to 194 basis points, or 1.94 percentage point, the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Corporate
Index shows. Yields averaged 3.971 percent.  
 The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. fell to the lowest in more than two weeks.  
 Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
fell 1.84 basis points to a mid-price of 111.47 basis points as
of 2:33 p.m. in New York, the lowest since June 21, according to
Markit Group Ltd.  
 The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings declined 2.87 basis points to 114.69,
Markit prices show.  
 New York Life  
 The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  
 New York Life Insurance Co., the biggest U.S. life insurer
owned by policyholders, boosted its offering of 3.5-year notes
to $400 million from $300 million, according to a person
familiar with the transaction.  
 The notes, which will be sold through New York Life Global
Funding, may yield 85 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, said the person, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  
 BP Bonds  
 BP’s 4.75 percent notes rose 0.25 cent to 90.5 cents on the
dollar today, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. One-year
credit-default swaps on BP dropped 45 basis points to 465 basis
points, according to CMA. The swaps reached a high of 997 as
recently as June 16.  
 Capping the well would give investors a means to start
estimating the total costs BP will face from the spill and gauge
the potential impact on its ability to repay creditors, Loomis
Sayles’s Eagan said. BP pledged to set aside $20 billion on June
16 to compensate the spill’s victims and finance the cleanup.
The company halted dividend payments and planned to sell $10
billion in assets to pay for it.  
 BP is drilling two relief wells to plug the leak and
interception may occur ahead of schedule, Allen said. Previous
failed attempts to stop the leak and forecasts for as many as 14
hurricanes in the Atlantic this year are keeping investors
guarded.  
 ‘Unlimited Liability’  
 While the market may have priced in the worst, investors
remain exposed to the risk the costs continue to escalate, said
 Stephen Antczak , head of U.S. credit strategy at Societe
Generale in New York. The one-year implied default rate is
almost 10 percent, assuming 59 cents on the dollar recovery on
the debt, Antczak said.  
 “It’s still an unlimited liability until they plug the
hole and they get through the hurricane season,” said  Mirko Mikelic , a senior money manager at Fifth Third Asset Management
in Grand Rapids, Michigan. “Fundamentally, nothing’s changed.”  
 BP bonds have handed investors returns of 3.96 percent this
month, second only to the 5.82 percent return on the notes of
 Anadarko,  among the 50 largest issuers in Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s global energy index. Anadarko, based in The
Woodlands, Texas, owns 25 percent of the leaking well.  
 “The worst is behind us,” said  Brian Gibbons , an analyst
at CreditSights Inc. in New York, who said investors started to
regain confidence after BP’s agreement with President  Barack Obama  to set up the compensation fund.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tony Hayward, chief executive officer of BP, testifies to Congress in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Daniel Pickering, an analyst at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co., discusses the outlook for BP Plc following Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward’s meeting with Abu Dhabi’s crown prince yesterday and potential interest of sovereign wealth funds in buying BP stock.
     Pickering talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
