-- BP May Have Third Ship Collecting Oil in Three Days
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-08T16:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/bp-may-have-third-ship-collecting-oil-from-gulf-blowout-within-three-days.html

          
          
             BP Plc  may start collecting oil
aboard a third vessel near its leaking Gulf of Mexico well in
two or three days, National Incident Commander Admiral  Thad Allen  said.  
 The Helix Producer I, which has the capacity to double the
oil collected at the site, may be connected to the Macondo well
in the next 48 hours if weather is good, Allen said today at a
press conference in Theodore, Alabama.  
 “It appears that today we will get the sea state we need
to finish that hook-up,” Allen said.  
 The vessel, owned by Houston-based  Helix Energy Solutions
Group Inc. , would be able to capture 25,000 barrels a day from
the leaking well. BP collected 24,575 barrels yesterday using
two ships already connected. The well is gushing 35,000 to
60,000 barrels a day, a government-led panel of scientists has
estimated.  
 The well began leaking after an April 20 explosion aboard
the Deepwater Horizon rig, resulting in the deaths of 11
workers. BP, based in London, leased the drilling rig from
Transocean Ltd.  
 U.S. Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  and Energy Secretary
 Steven Chu  will attend a meeting in Houston tomorrow to discuss
plans to replace the current cap on the well with one that would
fit tighter and capture more of the oil spilling into the Gulf.  
 Good Weather Window  
 Allen has asked BP to provide a detailed plan of action in
the next 24 hours for changing the cap. A decision may come on
whether to replace the cap in the next few days, he said. BP may
be able to take advantage of a seven- to 10-day window of good
weather predicted for the area to swap out the cap.  
 Hurricane Alex, the first named storm of the Atlantic
season, missed the spill site in the Gulf. A tropical depression
expected to bring as much as 8 inches (20 centimeters) of rain
to parts of Texas and Mexico also will miss the Macondo well,
according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center.  
 Better weather has allowed skimmers to return to work,
collecting oil off the surface of the water, Allen said.  
 BP rose for the fourth straight day in London trading, the
longest winning streak since the spill began. Shares jumped as
much as 3.6 percent to 375 pence before closing at 367 pence in
London.  
 During the transfer of the cap, the Helix Producer and the
Q4000, a Helix-owned rig that’s burning oil and natural gas from
the well, would continue to capture crude, Allen said last week.  
 Relief Wells  
 Allen said the timeline for stopping the leak permanently
remains mid-August. BP Managing Director  Robert Dudley  said that
in ideal circumstances the well might be killed by July 27, the
Wall Street Journal reported today.  
 The first of two relief wells being dug to kill the well is
within “a couple of hundred feet” and may intercept Macondo in
the next seven to 10 days, Allen said. If oil is gushing outside
of the pipe, it may require more time to stop the leak, he said.  
 If both relief wells fail, the U.S. is exploring whether to
pipe oil from BP’s well into idle fields 2 miles to 5 miles (3.2
kilometers to 8 kilometers) away from the leak, Allen said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        