-- Brazilians Bet Bonds to Beat Inflation Where Barclays Forecasts Higher CPI
-- Boris Korby
-- 2010-07-08T16:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/brazilians-bet-bonds-to-beat-inflation-where-barclays-forecasts-higher-cpi.html

          
          
             Investors are snapping up Brazilian
fixed-rate bonds at the fastest pace in 15 months relative to
inflation-linked notes just as the accelerating economy shakes
optimism that price increases will keep slowing.  
 The yield difference on securities due in 2012 shrank 45
basis points, or 0.45 percentage point, to 535 from a 17-month
high on May 4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The last
time the so-called breakeven rate, which reflects investors’
expectations for consumer prices over the period, fell faster
was in March 2009, when the  inflation rate  began an eight-month
slide.  
 Marco Freire , who manages $2.5 billion as chief investment
officer of fixed-income at Franklin Templeton Investimentos
Brasil in Sao Paulo, said the yield gap will start to widen as
seasonal effects on inflation dissipate next month. Prices will
climb as Brazil’s economy grows 7.2 percent in 2010, the fastest
pace in 15 years, a central bank survey of economists published
July 5 showed.  
 “The decline in inflation is temporary,” Freire said.
“The economy is still strong. There will be good opportunities
to buy some inflation protection.”  
 Yields on Brazil’s 10 percent fixed-rate bonds due 2012
fell 54 basis points to 11.97 percent in the past two months.
The inflation-linked bond yield declined 18 basis points to 6.59
percent.  
 Higher Rates  
 The International Monetary Fund raised its forecast for
Brazil’s economic growth this year to 7.1 percent, a 5.5 percent
prediction in April, the Washington-based organization said in
revisions yesterday to its World Economic Outlook. The increase
is the bigger than any other country, according to the report.  
 Brazil’s central bank has boosted the benchmark rate to
10.25 percent from a record low of 8.75 percent in March as the
economic growth threatens to quicken inflation.  
 Ures Folchini , the executive vice-president of fixed-income
in Sao Paulo at the Brazilian unit of WestLB AG, said inflation
will continue to slow as the central bank raises borrowing
costs.  
 “It’s a bad time to buy inflation-linked bonds,” said
Folchini. “Inflation is under control. There’s no
overheating.”  
 Brazil’s annual inflation as measured by the IPCA index
slowed to 4.84 percent in June, from 5.22 percent the previous
month, the national statistics agency said yesterday.  Food
prices , which account for more than 30 percent of the index,
fell 0.9 percent from May, the biggest monthly decline in over a
decade.  
 Seasonal Factors  
 “These readings mainly reflect seasonal factors and some
disinflation dynamics in the food sector,” said  Roberto Melzi ,
a strategist at Barclays Plc in New York. “They’re not related
to monetary policy. The economy is expanding very rapidly, and
that’s consistent with the view that after seasonality,
inflation will pick up.”  
 Barclays recommends clients buy inflation-linked bonds
maturing in May 2011 as the yield difference between the notes
and similar-maturity interest-rate futures contracts widens to 6
percentage points from 5.3 percentage points.  
 Brazil’s inflation rate, which has stayed above the central
bank’s target of 4.5 percent every month this year, will climb
to 5.6 percent by year-end, the central bank  survey  showed.  
 Default Expense Falls  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar-
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed five basis points to
231, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. The yield gap
touched a nine-month high of 251 on June 8.  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years fell three basis points yesterday to 136, according
to CMA DataVision prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  
 The real fell 0.4 percent to 1.7738 per dollar.  
 The yield on the interbank rate futures contract due in
January rose three basis points to 11.32 percent, suggesting the
central bank will raise its benchmark interest rate to about
11.9 percent by year-end.  
 More Supply  
 Brazilian bonds linked to the IPCA index  gained 6.9 percent
this year, beating the 6.1 percent return for Brazil’s  fixed-
rate securities , according to data compiled by the Rio de
Janeiro-based National Association of Financial Market
Institutions. The securities also outperformed the 3.3 percent
return on inflation-protected bonds in the U.S. and 0.3 percent
advance in Europe, according to JPMorgan indexes.  
 Rogerio Oliveira , a strategist at Morgan Stanley in New
York, said he favors Brazil’s inflation-linked bonds as “heavy
supply” of fixed-rate debt will push yields higher. The
government  plans  to issue as much as 640 billion reais ($362
billion) of fixed-rate bonds this year, compared with 484
billion reais of inflation-linked bonds.  
 “Brazil’s economic performance seems to have solid
foundations,” Oliveira said in a note on June 22. “We expect
the Brazilian National Treasury to substantially concentrate
issuance on nominal bonds and be lighter on linkers. All these
factors provide an environment that favors linkers over fixed-
rate debt.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net 
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 Bkorby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        