-- Brazilian Sugar Exports Face Long Delays Amid Record Output, Cosan Says
-- Lucia Kassai
-- 2010-07-08T14:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/brazil-s-sugar-export-bottleneck-at-ports-is-unprecedented-cosan-says.html

          
          
             Brazilian sugar exports may face
delays until at least August as a bottleneck at the nation’s
main port causes an “unprecedented” lineup of ships waiting to
load, said the head of logistics at Cosan SA Industria &
Comercio, the world’s largest processor of sugar cane.  
 Sugar prices have surged 22 percent since mid-May and
touched an 11-week high yesterday on speculation that demand
will increase in Indonesia and China, the world’s second-biggest
consumer. Raw sugar for October delivery rose 0.8 percent to
17.20 cents a pound at 10:30 a.m. on ICE Futures in New York.  
 “I have never seen a lineup of vessels like this,”  Julio Fontana Neto , chief executive officer of Cosan’s logistics unit,
Rumo Logistica, said in a telephone interview today.  
 Ports in Brazil, the world’s largest sugar producer,
haven’t been able to keep up with record output of the
sweetener. Brazil ships 54 percent of the world’s sugar exports,
up from about 20 percent a decade ago, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said.  
 The number of vessels waiting to load at six Brazilian
sugar ports, including the  Port of Santos , the nation’s biggest,
rose to 105 yesterday from 100 a week earlier, according to
shipping agencies  Santos Associados Consultoria Ltda . and Unimar
Agenciamentos Maritimos Ltda. The ships will load 3.1 million
metric tons of sugar, more than triple the amount on May 3, when
the peak export season was starting.  
 “It’s bad,” said  Erick Mello de Figueiredo , a Sao Paulo-
based trader at Terra Futuros, the country’s largest commodities
brokerage. “The bottom line is that demand is much higher than
capacity in the port.”  
 Rumo’s rail shipments from mills to ports aren’t facing
delays, Fontana Neto said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucia Kassai  in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        