-- U.K. Pound Falls as House Prices Slip, Bank of England Holds Rate at 0.5%
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-07-08T16:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/british-pound-declines-as-data-shows-the-economic-expansion-may-be-slowing.html

          
          
             The pound slid to its lowest level
against the euro in more than two weeks on speculation U.K.
economic expansion may be slowing as Prime Minister David
Cameron cuts spending to curb Britain’s budget deficit.  
 Sterling fell against all but one of its 16 most-traded
counterparts after mortgage lender Halifax said U.K. house 
prices fell 0.6 percent in June, the most in four months. The
economy faces “headwinds,” the National Institute of Economic
and Social Research said today. The Bank of England kept the  key
interest rate  unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent today,
matching estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  
 “The Halifax data certainly doesn’t help sterling,” said
 Adam Cole , head of global currency strategy at Royal Bank of
Canada. The pound’s rally since the formation of  Cameron ’s
coalition government has left the currency’s valuation looking
“stretched” and may be fading, Cole said.  
 The pound depreciated 0.7 percent to 83.78 pence per euro
as of 4:55 p.m. in London after reaching 83.81 pence, the
weakest since June 21. It was 0.5 percent lower at $1.5110.  
 The pound climbed against the dollar on June 10, the last
time Bank of England policy makers met, when they kept the main
rate at 0.5 percent and maintained the bond-buying program.  
 Cameron’s Cuts  
 Optimism the Cameron administration would reduce Britain’s
budget deficit while sustaining growth pushed the pound up more
than 6 percent against the dollar since reaching an almost 14-
month low of $1.4231 on May 20. An endorsement of the spending
cuts by central bank Governor  Mervyn King  led investors to cut
bets interest rates will increase this year.  
 U.K. Chief Secretary to the Treasury  Danny Alexander  said
July 5 that government departments agreed to cut spending by a
further 1.54 billion pounds ($2.3 billion) after a budget last
month that imposed a bank levy and raised sales taxes.  
 “The U.K. economy does face headwinds,” London-based
Niesr said in a statement today, which estimated gross domestic
product rose 0.7 percent in the second quarter compared with a
0.3 percent gain in the first. “Fiscal consolidation both in
the U.K. and the euro area will restrict growth in the short
term and there is clearly a risk that this rate of growth will
not be maintained through the rest of this year.”  
 The Halifax data showed June house prices fell 0.6 percent
after a revised 0.5 percent decline in May, the mortgage lending
division of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  said. Economists had
estimated a 0.2 percent gain, according to the median of eight
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 King’s Commitment  
 U.K.  manufacturing output  climbed 0.3 percent in May after
a revised drop of 0.8 percent in April, twice the rate of
decline previously estimated, according to data from the Office
for National Statistics.  
 Weaker economic data may strengthen King’s commitment to
keep up economic stimulus. The governor may today have faced
renewed dissent by  Andrew Sentance , who on June 10 sounded the
alarm on inflation and made the first push in almost two years
to raise the benchmark interest rate. King said a week later
that the economy is still languishing in the aftermath of the
recession and the bank can expand bond purchases if needed.  
 “As long as there’s a chance of a return to a recession,
interest rates will remain low,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , an
analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London, said before the
decision. “The possibility of more quantitative easing is
always there but it’s by no means imminent.”  
 Gilt Sale  
 The bank will maintain the bond purchase plan at 200
billion pounds, it said today. The European Central Bank kept
its main refinancing rate at 1 percent.  
 The 10-year  gilt  yield rose one basis point to 3.37 percent
after data showing a bigger-than-forecast drop in initial claims
for U.S. unemployment benefits last week damped demand for the
safest assets. The two-year yield climbed one basis point to
0.77 percent.  
 The U.K. Debt Management Office said Deutsche Bank AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc were appointed for the sale of an index-
linked bond.  
 The sale of the bond, which will have a maturity of 20 to
30 years, will take place in the second half of July, the agency
said today in a statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        