-- Brown Says California Program He Started Broke L.A.'s `Grim Sleeper' Case
-- Christopher Palmeri
-- 2010-07-08T20:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/brown-says-california-program-he-started-broke-l-a-s-grim-sleeper-case.html

          
          
             California Attorney General  Jerry Brown , the Democratic candidate for governor, said a
DNA-search program he implemented two years ago helped catch a
man suspected of being the “Grim Sleeper” serial killer.  
 Lonnie David Franklin Jr., 57, of Los Angeles was arrested
yesterday, accused of murdering at least 10 women over the past
25 years, according to a  statement  from Brown’s office. Franklin
was arrested after a state DNA lab uncovered a link between
murder-scene material and Franklin’s son, Christopher, who was
convicted last year of a felony weapons charge.  
 “We’re in the midst of very powerful new technology and
legal battles to make sure we can use it,” Brown said at a
press conference today in Los Angeles.  
 Brown said his office had developed software capable of
searching for familial links in the state’s  DNA  database.
Officials in his department are scheduled to appear in court
next week to defend the use of the technology in a separate
case, he said.  
 “We’re protecting people’s privacy,” Brown said. “We’re
going to fight to protect this technology.”  
 Los Angeles Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa  and Police Chief
 Charlie Beck  both acknowledged the contribution to the case from
Brown’s office, as did City Council member  Bernard Parks , a
former Los Angeles police chief.  
 “Attorney General Brown, your office, when called, was
beyond cooperative,” Parks said at the press conference.  
 DNA Database  
 Steve Cooley , the Los Angeles County district attorney and
the Republican Party’s nominee to succeed Brown as state
attorney general in the November election, gave credit to Bruce
Harrington, who sponsored a 2004 statewide proposition that
created California’s DNA database from convicts. Harrington’s
brother and sister-in-law were killed in their home by an
intruder in 1980.  
 Cooley also noted that his office hosted a DNA awareness
day for law-enforcement professionals two years ago where the
new technology was discussed.  
 “That was the beginning of what we celebrate today,” he
said.  
 Lonnie Franklin’s DNA was obtained from a discarded slice
of pizza that was retrieved by police detectives, according to
the Los Angeles Times.  
 Sarah Pompei, a spokeswoman for  Meg Whitman , who is running
for governor against Brown on the Republican ticket, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        