-- Build America Bond Sales Shrink With Extra Yield Over Treasuries at Record
-- Esme E. Deprez
-- 2010-07-08T17:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/build-america-bond-sales-shrink-with-extra-yield-over-treasuries-at-record.html

          
          
             Scheduled weekly Build America Bond
sales fell to the lowest this year as the yield premium demanded
by investors in the taxable debt reached a record high.  
 Investors sought  2 percentage points  in extra yield for the
federally subsidized securities yesterday, the highest since the
 Wells Fargo Build America Bond Index  started in August. The so-
called spread over 30-year U.S. Treasuries has widened about 41
percent since touching a 2010 low of 1.42 percentage points on
May 6, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Investors have had general concerns about muni bonds”
that contributed to wider yield spreads, said  Alan Schankel ,
director of fixed-income research at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
in Philadelphia. At the same time, “investors are saying, ‘If I
buy BABs, I want a little more yield,’” he said.  
 States and municipal issuers reduced Build America
offerings by about 86 percent since May 28 as the yield premium
has risen, Bloomberg data show. Borrowing costs on the debt have
gone up more than  15 basis points  in that period, according to
the Wells Fargo index. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 About $425 million of the debt is scheduled to sell this
week, the lowest since Dec. 31. Total taxable issuance, such as
Build Americas, Qualified School Construction Bonds and Recovery
Zone Economic Development Bonds, have amounted to about $66
billion in the period. In February, Barclays Plc said taxable
sales would reach as much as $150 billion in 2010.  
 No ‘Massive Shift’  
 “I don’t think there’s a massive shift in actual risk,”
said  Justin Hoogendoorn , a managing director with BMO Capital
Markets’ Fixed-Income Group in Chicago. “Spreads at the moment
are related to general spread products widening out as there’s
this flight to safety and quality.”  
 Yields on 30-year U.S. Treasuries have fallen  79 basis
points  since April 8 as investors fled from equity markets amid
mounting concern that Europe’s debt crisis and China’s steps to
cool its economy will hinder the global recovery. Government
securities due in 10 years have fallen  91 basis points  in the
same period, Bloomberg data show.  
 Since March, tax-exempts have returned 2.43 percent through
yesterday, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Municipal Master Index. In the same period, Build Americas have
returned 4.7 percent, and long-term AAA corporate debt 9.82
percent, Merrill indexes show. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
the benchmark gauge for U.S. equities, has lost  9.3 percent  in
that time.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Esmé E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        