-- Buy a Mobile Phone in San Francisco, Get a Label on Cancer Risk
-- Rob Waters
-- 2010-07-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/buy-a-mobile-phone-in-san-francisco-get-a-label-on-cancer-risk.html

          
          
             Cigarette packs in the U.S. have been
branded with government health warnings since 1965. Now San
Francisco’s city government has brought warning labels to the
Information Age, voting 10-1 to require that stores post the
level of radio waves emitted by each mobile phone they sell.  
 The city’s Board of Supervisors approved the ordinance June
22, with some provisions taking effect Nov. 1. In passing the
law, called the “Cell Phone Right-to-Know Ordinance,” San
Francisco jumped into a murky minefield of dueling scientists
and conflicting findings, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
July 12 issue.  
 There’s no scientific consensus on whether the kind of
radiation exposure created by frequent mobile-phone use can lead
to cancer, as many fear. The latest study to grapple with the
issue, released last month by the World Health Organization,
couldn’t find a conclusive link. That kind of uncertainty leaves
consumer advocates asking for more clarity.  
 “It totally makes sense to give consumers more
information,” says Renee Sharp, a scientist with the
Environmental Working Group in Oakland, California, which
supports the measure. “We are not saying we know cell phones
cause cancer.”  
 A cell phone’s main source of radio frequency, or RF,
energy is produced through the antenna. The closer the antenna
is to the head, the higher the exposure, according to the
National Cancer Institute.  
 Last month’s WHO-supported study reported a “suggestion,”
backed up by incomplete data, that the heaviest phone use may be
tied to gliomas, the most common type of brain tumor and the one
that claimed the life of Senator Edward Kennedy last year.  
 Swedish Study  
 A more worrying 2005 study from Sweden reported a possible
link between brain cancers and mobile phone use. The researchers
behind both studies caution that it can take years or decades of
exposure to a cancer-causing agent for a tumor to appear, and
because heavy cell phone use is a relatively new phenomenon,
they need more time and data to study the issue.  
 Furthermore, Mary McBride, a scientist at the British
Columbia Cancer Agency and a co-author of the WHO report, says
that most studies, including hers, excluded children, whose
brains absorb more energy than adults and whose phone use has
grown exponentially.  
 The Federal Communications Commission currently regulates
cell phone emissions based on the amount of radio frequency
energy absorbed by the body during phone use, a metric called
the “specific absorption rate.”  
 The maximum SAR allowed under a 20-year-old standard is 1.6
watts per kilogram of body weight, and anything under that is
considered safe, at least by the FCC. The San Francisco
ordinance will require sellers to post the SAR of each phone.  
 Sowing Confusion  
 That may confuse consumers, says John Walls, a spokesman
for CTIA-The Wireless Association, a trade group in Washington,
D.C. that represents Dallas-based AT&T Inc.; Nokia Oyj of Espoo,
Finland, the world’s biggest maker of mobile phones; Seoul-based
LG Electronics Inc. and New York-based Verizon Communications
Inc. among mobile-phone companies. Posting the ratings may lead
consumers to infer that phones with higher SAR numbers are more
dangerous, he said.  
 “As long as those devices meet or fall below the FCC
standard, they are all considered safe. Period,” Walls said in
a June 29 telephone interview.  
 Consumers and activists think transparency can’t hurt.
Ellie Marks, of nearby Lafayette, California, was pleased by San
Francisco’s decision. Her husband, Alan, has a brain tumor she
believes was caused by his frequent use of mobile phones. An
early adopter, he got his first phone in 1987 and for two
decades he used it more than 500 hours a year, mostly glued to
his right ear, she said.  
 Avoidable Risks  
 In May 2008, he was diagnosed with a glioma in his right
frontal lobe. Since then Ellie Marks has become an advocate for
educating customers about what she calls the avoidable risks of
mobile phones, testifying before Congress as well as the
California and Maine state legislatures. In each case, measures
to provide information on the radio frequency emissions of
phones were defeated.  
 Now that she’s tasted victory in San Francisco, though, she
says she’ll keep pushing. Next up: the city of Burlingame,
California, population 28,000, where Councilman Michael
Brownrigg plans to introduce a bill modeled on the one passed by
its neighbor to the north.  
 Marks may soon find herself back before Congress, too. On
June 30, Representative Dennis Kucinich, a Democrat from Ohio
and two-time candidate for U.S. president, announced he’ll
introduce a right-to-know bill similar to San Francisco’s.  
 The mobile phone industry, meanwhile, is expressing its
displeasure with its wallet. After October, the CTIA says, its
annual trade show will no longer grace San Francisco.  
 “We thought the Board of Supervisors’ decision sent a very
clear message,” Walls says. “We weren’t wanted in San
Francisco.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Waters in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Last month’s WHO-supported study reported a 'suggestion,' backed up by incomplete data, that the heaviest phone use may be tied to gliomas, the most common type of brain tumor and the one that claimed the life of Senator Edward Kennedy last year. Photographer: Mannie Garcia/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
