-- Canadian Currency Strengthens to Highest Level in a Week on Risk Demand
-- Daniel Kruger
-- 2010-07-08T21:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/canadian-dollar-rises-to-highest-level-in-more-than-week-on-crude-oil-gain.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar rallied for a third
day, strengthening to the highest level in more than a week
against its U.S. counterpart as gains by stocks and commodities
fueled investor appetite for higher-yielding assets.  
 The Canadian currency, known as the loonie, advanced
against the U.S. dollar and the British pound as investors
spread their bets against currencies where monetary policy is
expected to experience a prolonged period of near-zero benchmark
rates. It fell against the euro as European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the economic recovery is
gaining momentum.  
 “We tend to be riding the wave of stock market and risk
sentiment,” said  David Watt , a senior currency strategist in
Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada, the nation’s largest lender.  
 The Canadian currency appreciated 0.4 percent to C$1.0427
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after trading earlier at
C$1.0380, the strongest level since June 29, from C$1.0466
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys 95.97 U.S. cents. It was the
first three-day advance for the loonie since early June.  
 The currency rose 0.5 percent to C$1.5815 per British pound
and fell 0.1 percent to C$1.3242 per euro.  
 The loonie dropped against Australia’s dollar, which rallied
on a gain in domestic employment. Both currencies are sensitive
to changes in commodity prices. The loonie slid 1.1 percent to
91.48 Canadian cents versus the Aussie.  
 Stocks, Oil, Gold  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 0.9 percent to its
highest close since June 28 after the International Monetary
Fund lifted its estimate for global growth and U.S. jobless
claims decreased.  
 Crude oil futures gained 2.3 percent to $75.80 a barrel on
the New York Mercantile Exchange. Canada is the largest supplier
of energy products to the U.S., the world’s biggest economy.
Gold for immediate delivery rose as much as 0.4 percent before
falling 0.4 percent to $1,197.45 an ounce.  
 “Canada is a commodity-producing nation, and commodities,
by and large, have been relatively stable,” said  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada
in Toronto. “Crude oil is still sitting in the 70s, and gold is
still sitting at roughly 1,200 bucks. The Canadian dollar is
unable to reach parity again, but it’s still holding relatively
well on the crosses.”  
 Spitz predicted the currency will trade in a range of C$1.01
to C$1.07 during the next several weeks.  
 Sideline Sitting  
 The Canadian currency receded from its high earlier today
on speculation employment data would be weaker than economists
forecast when Statistics Canada reports them tomorrow.  
 “Job numbers will have us sitting on the sideline until we
see them,” said  Firas Askari , head currency trader in Toronto
at Bank of Montreal.  
 Canada’s economy added 20,000 jobs in June and the
unemployment rate remained at 8.1 percent, according to the
median estimate of 23 economists in a survey by Bloomberg News.  
 “There’s some anticipation over tomorrow’s employment data
and speculation over what the Bank of Canada will do on July
20,” said  Camilla Sutton , a Bank of Nova Scotia currency
strategist in Toronto. “There’s speculation they will hike
rates again.”  
 The central bank raised the  benchmark interest rate  to 0.5
percent at its previous policy meeting, on June 1.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        