-- CapitaMalls Prices Shares of Malaysian Property Trust at Low End of Range
-- Ranjeetha Pakiam
-- 2010-07-08T06:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/capitamalls-prices-malaysian-real-estate-trust-at-the-bottom-of-ipo-range.html

          
          
             CapitaMalls Asia Ltd. , owner of
shopping malls in the region, said it priced shares of its
Malaysian unit at the low end of its projected range, raising
investor concerns gains may be capped when trading begins.  
 CapitaMalls Malaysia Trust’s units were offered to
institutions at 1 ringgit apiece, while shares were sold to
individual investors at 98 sen each, it said. The 852 million
ringgit ($267 million) initial public offering, the second-
biggest in Malaysia this year, was earlier priced at between 1
ringgit and 1.10 ringgit a share for large investors.  
 “The upside on the capital appreciation potential can be
quite limited,” said  Scott Lim , chief executive officer of MIDF
Amanah Asset Management Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur, which manages the
equivalent of $670 million. “Most of the properties inside the
REIT are priced at market, they’re already at present market
value and they’re not undervalued assets.”  
 The IPO follows the 1.5 billion ringgit raised by  Sunway
Real Estate Investment Trust  in its initial sale last month and
underscores rising investor appetite for equities in Malaysia
amid an economic rebound from last year’s recession. CapitaMalls
Malaysia’s IPO may be surpassed by share sales of two units of
state oil and gas company  Petroliam Nasional Bhd .  
 Sunway REIT fell on its trading debut today, falling to
87.5 ringgit at the midday break, from its institutional offer
price of 90 sen.  
 ‘These Things Happen’  
 “It’s ok. These things happen,” Jeffrey Cheah, chairman of
its parent company Sunway City Bhd., told reporters in Kuala
Lumpur today. “It’s a very difficult market. I don’t look at
just today. I look at longer-term.”  
 CapitaMalls Malaysia Trust is scheduled to list on July 16
when JPMorgan Chase & Co. will act as stabilizing manager, the
company said in a separate exchange filing today. JPMorgan, CIMB
Investment Bank Bhd., and Maybank Investment Bank Bhd. are
jointly managing the sale.  
 “It is a good proxy to the Malaysian REIT sector that we
believe is due for another round of re-rating,”  Joshua Ng , an
analyst at RHB Research Institute Sdn. said in a report today.
“Its growth prospects are good, underpinned by growing rentals
and acquisitions.”  
 Singapore-based CapitaMalls Asia, part of Southeast Asia’s
biggest developer CapitaLand Ltd., owns shopping malls in China,
India and Singapore. CapitaMalls Malaysia is the owner of the
Sungei Wang Mall in Kuala Lumpur, The Mines mall, which is south
of the city center, and Gurney Plaza in Penang, according to the
company’s prospectus.  
 “We are heartened by the success of the offering,”
CapitaMalls Asia Chief Executive Officer  Lim Beng Chee  said in
the statement. “Despite the challenging market conditions, it
is priced at one of the tightest yields for a Malaysian REIT
initial public offering.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        