-- India Passenger-Car Sales Growth to Slow on Higher Prices, Interest Rates
-- Tushar Dhara
-- 2010-07-08T08:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/car-sales-growth-in-india-may-slow-as-higher-automobile-price-deter-buyers.html

          
          
             India’s car sales growth will
probably slow by half this year as new emissions rules push up
vehicle prices and interest rates increase.  
 Passenger car sales may gain about 12 percent in the year
ending March 31, the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers
said today. About 1.71 million units are likely to be sold this
fiscal year, compared with 1.53 million a year earlier.  
 Maruti Suzuki India Ltd ., India’s biggest carmaker, and
rivals raised vehicle prices to recover costs from complying
with new emissions standards set for 13 cities starting in April
this year. The slower sales will follow the fastest expansion in
six years,  Pawan Goenka , president of Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd.’s
automotive division, said in New Delhi today.  
 “Anything that affects the equated monthly installment,
whether it is price increases or interest rate increases will
have an impact on demand,” said Goenka, also president of the
auto manufacturers group. “With the emission norm change,
prices will go up, and we have always had concerns on interest
rate increases.”  
 Higher interest rates in India, the world’s third-fastest-
growing major economy, may hurt demand because 80 percent of
customers borrow from banks to purchase vehicles. The nation’s
central bank raised key policy rates for the third time this
year on July 2 to curb accelerating inflation.  
 Sales of passenger cars in India in the first five months
of this year grew 31.6 percent from a year earlier, the second-
fastest in the world after China, the industry group said.  
 That’s encouraging global carmakers including  Ford Motor 
Co., Toyota Motor Corp. and others to introduce new models,
expand capacity or build new factories.  
 New Entrants  
 New entrants such as  Volkswagen AG  and Nissan Motor Co. are
competing with  Maruti , Tata and South Korea’s Hyundai Motor Co.,
that together account for 84 percent of the passenger car market.
The government has said it expects annual car sales to exceed 3
million units by 2015.  
 Per capita incomes  have almost doubled in the past five
years in the nation. India’s economy, which has grown an average
8.5 percent annually during the past five years, will probably
grow at an 9 percent annual pace by the year ending March 31,
2012, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said at the G-20 Summit in
Toronto last month.  
 “As infrastructure improves and income levels improve and
cars become more affordable, then more and more people would
like to buy,” Goenka said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net  and  Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
   tdhara1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        