-- Carlyle to Buy Six of Simon Halabi's London Office Towers for $1 Billion
-- Chris Bourke
-- 2010-07-08T11:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/carlyle-to-buy-six-of-simon-halabi-s-london-office-towers-for-1-billion.html

          
          
             A fund managed by Carlyle Group
agreed to buy six office towers in London formerly owned by
 Simon Halabi  for 671 million pounds ($1 billion).  
 This is Carlyle’s first major U.K. purchase in two years,
according to a statement today from the Washington-based private
equity group. The buildings include JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
offices at 60 Victoria Embankment and Alban Gate.  
 The towers are part of nine that were valued at 1.83
billion pounds when they were packaged against 1.15 billion
pounds of bonds in 2006. The bonds, issued by White Tower 2006-3
Plc, defaulted when a revaluation a year ago showed the
buildings’ value had fallen by almost 50 percent.  
 “This acquisition has provided us with a rare opportunity
to acquire six landmark assets in strong locations, let to a
number of global high-quality occupiers,”  Robert Hodges ,
managing director of Carlyle’s European real estate unit, said
in the statement.  
 The acquisition was made on behalf of the Carlyle European
Real Estate Partners III fund, which was started in June 2008,
the company said.  
 The buildings comprise more than 1.6 million square feet
(148,645 square meters) of space and generate about 62 million
pounds of rent a year, according to the statement. They include
three buildings near the river Thames, two in the city’s main
financial district and one in Chiswick, west London.  
 Carlyle may redevelop some of the properties, Hodges said.
It borrowed money for the acquisition from lenders including
 Societe Generale  and BNP Paribas.  
 Two of the other three buildings backing the White Tower
bonds were sold last month. The last, which is the headquarters
of Aviva Plc in the City of London, isn’t for sale.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Bourke  in London at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        