-- CBOE Defeats ISE Lawsuit in Illinois Over Exclusive Index-Options Listings
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-07-08T20:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/cboe-defeats-ise-lawsuit-in-illinois-over-exclusive-index-options-listings.html

          
          
             CBOE Holdings Inc.  and  McGraw-Hill
Cos.  won an Illinois court ruling barring the  International
Securities Exchange LLC  from providing a forum for the trading
of S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average index options.  
 The parent of the Chicago Board Options Exchange, together
with  McGraw-Hill  and Dow Jones, sued the ISE in 2006 to block it
from competing with them. This year,  CME Group Inc.  acquired
90 percent of the Dow Jones index business from  News Corp. ’s Dow
Jones.  
 State court Judge William Maki in Chicago, in a ruling
today, barred ISE from featuring the listings. Allowing the
listings would deprive New York-based McGraw Hill and CME Group
of their rights to license use of the indexes, the judge ruled.
CBOE holds an exclusive license to offer options based on the
indexes, he wrote.  
 The Chicago exchange is the biggest U.S. options exchange.
The last major U.S. exchange owned by its members, it raised
$339 million last month in an  initial public offering .  
 On June 22, the CBOE told customers it would allow them to
buy and sell CBOE Holdings options the next day.  CBOE  fell
22 cents to $29.01 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading at 4 p.m.  
 Molly McGregor , a spokeswoman for New York-based ISE, said
the exchange would appeal Maki’s ruling.  
 “We believe this result is incorrect based on the facts
and the applicable law in this case,” she said in a phone
interview. ISE’s parent is Frankfurt,  Germany-based Deutsche
Boerse AG .  
 CBOE ‘Gratified’  
 CBOE Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  William Brodsky 
said in a statement that the exchange was “gratified” by
Maki’s decision.  
 “After nearly four years of defending our contractual
right to exclusively list and trade these index products, we are
elated that the time, energy and resources needed for litigation
may now be redirected to focus on new initiatives,” he said.  
 The case is Chicago Board of Options Exchange v.
International Securities Exchange LLC, 06CH24798, Cook County,
Illinois Circuit Court, Chancery Division (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew M Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        