-- McDonald's Draws Ethnic Flavor Into Menus, Ads to Drive Sales
-- Burt Helm
-- 2010-07-08T14:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/mcdonald-s-draws-ethnic-flavor-into-menus-ads-to-drive-sales.html

          
          
             The music industry has long sold
black culture to white Americans. Now McDonald’s Corp. is
doing much the same. It’s taking cues from blacks, Hispanics and
Asians to develop menus and advertising, in an effort to
encourage middle-class whites to buy smoothies and snack wraps
as avidly as they consume hip-hop and rock ‘n’ roll.  
 “The ethnic consumer tends to set trends,” says Neil
Golden, McDonald’s U.S. chief marketing officer. “So they help
set the tone for how we enter the marketplace.”  
 Preferences gleaned from minority consumers shape
McDonald’s menu and ad choices, which are then marketed to all
customers, Golden says in Bloomberg Businessweek’s July 12
issue.  
 The fast-food company’s strategy is a departure from the
way companies typically market to American households. Usually,
a company works with an agency to develop advertising aimed at
the general market, then turns to multicultural agencies to
create versions tailored to blacks, Hispanics, or Asians.  
 While Oak Brook, Illinois-based McDonald’s still creates
ads tailored to minority groups, as it has for over 30 years,
minorities exert an increasingly influential role in its general
advertising, Golden says.  
 “Most companies think they can box in Latinos, box in
African-Americans, and then run the general market ad,” says
Steve Stoute, chief executive officer of Translation, which
advises brands, including McDonald’s, on how to reach young
adults. “McDonald’s will take an ad that could be primarily
geared toward African-Americans and put a general market
advertising dollar behind it.”  
 Demographic Shift  
 The move reflects a demographic shift under way in the U.S.
As whites head toward minority status by mid-century, according
to Census Bureau projections, Hispanics, Asians, and black
populations are growing faster. California and Texas, the two
largest states, are already “majority minority,” meaning white
non-Hispanics make up less than 50 percent of the population.  
 Low prices have helped fuel McDonald’s rising sales this
year, even as the rest of the restaurant industry struggles to
recover from the recession. Golden says his minority-shapes-
majority marketing strategy is paying off, too. U.S. sales rose
1.5 percent in the first three months of the year, thanks to the
success of new menu items and, he says, an improved perception
of the brand among all ethnic groups.  
 ‘Fiesta Menu’  
 Golden says he first discovered how minority tastes can
influence mainstream preferences when he oversaw McDonald’s
marketing in the U.S. West in the 1990s. His team had developed
products aimed at Hispanics called the “Fiesta Menu,” which
included guacamole and spicy beef tortas. Although the items
sold well enough in Hispanic neighborhoods, sales rose more than
expected in Orange County and specifically Laguna Beach, an area
that was more than 90 percent white.  
 “The intended consumer said, ‘We sure appreciate what
you’re trying to do, nice try,’” Golden says. Yet the Fiesta
menu overperformed in the general market, he says.  
 Golden went on to create a strategy for the U.S. business
that he calls “Leading with Ethnic Insights.” Working with
Jonah Kaufman, a McDonald’s franchisee who has 13 restaurants on
Long Island, New York, Golden doubled the spots designated for
minority franchisees on the national advertising committee,
which advises on and approves ads.  
 McDonald’s also uses a disproportionate number of blacks,
Hispanics, and Asians in focus groups. Marketers are asked to
imagine how they would sell a product if the U.S. population
were only black, Hispanic, or Asian. They look for differences
to McDonald’s general market plan.  
 Sweeter Drinks  
 That sensitivity has influenced new products. The fruit
combinations in McDonald’s latest smoothies, for instance,
reflect taste preferences in minority communities. When the
company started advertising coffee drinks last year, the ads
emphasized the indulgent aspects of sweeter drinks like mochas,
a message that resonated with blacks, Golden says.  
 Of the 10 most-aired McDonald’s TV ads from the past 12
months, compiled by ad tracker Nielsen IAG, five had all-black
casts. While the ads usually push specific products or deals,
many use situations aimed directly at ethnic consumers, says Fay
Ferguson, co-CEO of Burrell Communications, an agency that
produced a recent commercial called “Big Day” for McDonald’s.  
 In the ad, a young boy at a wedding looks bored while
watching the bride and groom kiss and jump over a broom, an
African-American matrimonial tradition. His eyes light up when
he gets to his seat and finds a Happy Meal.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Burt Helm in New York at 
 Bhelm3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Neil Golden, chief marketing officer of U.S. McDonald's Corp. Source: McDonald's Corp. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
