-- Central Bank Raises Assessment of Economy in Eight of Japan's Nine Regions
-- Mayumi Otsuma
-- 2010-07-08T06:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/central-bank-raises-assessment-of-economy-in-eight-of-japan-s-nine-regions.html

          
          
             The Bank of Japan raised its economic
assessment in eight of the country’s nine regions, saying
conditions improved from three months ago as the economic
recovery remained intact.  
 In many areas, “business fixed investment had either
stopped decreasing or had started picking up and the degree of
severity in the employment and income situation had eased,” the
central bank said today in its quarterly  Sakura Report , the
equivalent of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s Beige Book. Four
locations said their economies are “recovering moderately.”  
 The upgrade came even as evidence mounts that the expansion
is slowing, with a report today showing machine orders plunged
the most since August 2008. BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa 
maintained his view today that the economy will keep expanding
on the back of rising overseas demand, while adding the pace of
exports and  production  will moderate in coming months.  
 At the same time, some areas reported either a “low level
of economic activity” or “differences among regions,
industries or firms.” The central bank left unchanged its
assessment of Tokai, home to Toyota Motor Corp.  
 The areas that pointed to a moderate recovery were Kanto-
Koshinetsu, which encompasses Tokyo; Kinki, which includes Osaka;
Chugoku in western Japan; and Kyushu-Okinawa in the southern
part of the country.  
 Branch managers said some companies in their regions were
concerned that the phasing out of economic stimulus measures and
a stock-market slump may hamper household spending.  
 Stocks, Yen  
 The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  has tumbled 15 percent in the
past three months on concern that the global recovery is losing
steam. The yen has strengthened in the same period, threatening
to erode exporters’ earnings and competitiveness.  
 Shirakawa told the managers in a speech earlier today that
global financial markets are showing volatility because of
concerns about sovereign debt.  
 Machinery  orders , an indicator of future capital spending,
slid 9.1 percent in May from April, the Cabinet Office said.
Other figures today showed bank lending dropped the most in
almost five years and the current-account surplus narrowed for
the first time in 10 months as export growth cooled.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        