-- Centum Electronics to Add Capacity as Orders From Alcatel, Ericsson Revive
-- Jay Shankar
-- 2010-07-08T09:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/centum-electronics-to-add-capacity-as-orders-from-alcatel-ericsson-revive.html

          
          
             Centum Electronics Ltd.,  an Indian
maker of electronic components for companies including  Alcatel-
Lucent SA  and Ericsson AB, said it plans to build its second
factory as overseas demand revives  
 The company, 10 percent owned by Singapore’s  Flextronics
International Ltd. , plans to invest 250 million rupees ($5.3
million) in the year ending March 31 to increase capacity, said
Managing Director  Apparao Mallavarapu . The plant will be built
in India’s Karnataka state, he said.  
 The International Monetary Fund yesterday raised its
forecast for global growth this year as Canada and the U.S. lead
advanced economies out of the worst recession since World War II.
The world economy will expand 4.6 percent in 2010, the biggest
gain since 2007, the Washington-based fund said, helping boost
demand for electronics and services from India.  
 “Export markets are looking good and 60 percent of our
revenue came from the U.S. and Europe last year,” Mallavarapu
said. “We see strong growth in the electronic manufacturing
sector and products and in all the business segments.”  
 Centum, which has  risen  55 percent this year, fell 2.9
percent to 118 rupees at 1:55 p.m. in Mumbai.  
 The company based in Bangalore plans to set up an office in
either the U.K or Germany this year, Mallavarapu said. It will
also hire 500 engineers and technicians this year, he said.  
 “Customers in the industrial and telecommunications space
are seeing the end of the crisis as economic conditions are
getting better,” Mallavarapu said.  
 To attract larger customers the company plans to combine
with its subsidiary by early August, K.S. Desikan, chief
financial officer of Centum Electronics said. The new company
will be 57 percent owned by Mallavarapu, 5 percent by
Flextronics, while the public will own the balance, Desikan said.  
 “The merged entities will be more attractive to
international customers who look at overall balance sheet size
for prequalifying vendors,” Mallavarapu said. Centum
Electronics can then obtain bigger contracts and greater
negotiating power in the market, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jay Shankar  in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        