-- China Seeks Copper, Tungsten, Chromium in Central Asia, Ernst & Young Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-08T05:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/central-asia-attracting-chinese-investment-in-copper-rare-metals-on-costs.html

          
          
             Central Asia, holder of some of the
largest deposits of rare metals such as tungsten and chromium,
is increasingly an investment target for China because of low
regulatory hurdles and transport cost, Ernst & Young LLP said.  
 Governments in the region, which includes Kazakhstan and
Uzbekistan, look favorably on Chinese investments because of
close political ties, Eleanor Wu, an Ernst & Young partner on
transaction advisory services, said in an interview in Beijing.  
 President Hu Jintao visited Central Asia in June, signing
gas and nuclear agreements and promising cooperation in port
construction and transport. The world’s largest metal consumer
has also promised billions of dollars in aid, investment and
loans to Africa, in exchange for energy and commodity supplies
as it depletes domestic resources.  
 “Central Asia is rich in mineral resources, particularly
rare metals, copper and gold that China needs for economic
growth,” Wu said. “Central Asia is close to China
geographically and the business cultures are to some extent
closer -- companies there are operating under the socialist
system, similar to Chinese companies in the 1980s.”  
 The central Asian states of Kazakhstan, Tajikistan,
Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan have presidential forms of
government, with Kyrgyzstan shifting toward a parliamentary
democracy. Wu didn’t name Chinese companies.  
 Kazakhstan’s zinc and tungsten deposits are the largest in
the world, Xinhua News agency  said last year . The nation is
second only to Russia among the countries in the Commonwealth of
Independent States in quantity of mineral production, according
to a 2006 U.S. Geological Survey  report .  
 Cap Domestic Production  
 The push in Central Asia comes as China is trying to cap
domestic production of minor metals to conserve resources. The
nation in March said it stopped accepting applications for new
mines to produce tungsten and antimony until June 2011.  
 Mining deals by China in South America and Africa are
increasing, while Australia and Canada will continue to be
“promising” places, Wu said, without giving details.  
 State-owned companies will continue to lead the drive for
overseas deals, though the number of private and local firms
venturing abroad will sharply increase in 2010 and 2011,
particularly in the manufacturing and service sectors, she said.  
 “We’ll see more transactions done by assets swap or a
joint venture, rather than a cash purchase of a stake” in
companies or assets, Wu said. This type of investment, mostly
adopted in oil industries, can help companies reduce risks and
increase investment returns, she said.  
 -- Xiao Yu . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Indranil Ghosh   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        