-- Chevron, Rosneft's Black Sea Oil Project Dependent on Tax Relief Request
-- Stephen Bierman
-- 2010-07-08T08:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/chevron-rosneft-s-black-sea-oil-project-dependent-on-tax-relief-request.html

          
          
             Chevron Corp.  and OAO Rosneft’s plan
to drill for oil in the Russian Black Sea hinge on a request for
government tax breaks, according to a copy of their initial
drilling agreement obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 The final agreement is conditional on the group gaining
assurances of “fiscal relief” from the Russian government “to
ensure the economic viability of the project,” according to the
document. The two sides aim to finish negotiations by the end of
March and start drilling at the end of next year. Chevron will
have a 33.3 percent stake in the venture.  
 Russia needs foreign capital and technology to tap harder-
to-drill deposits as production from existing fields in Siberia
declines. The deal would mark Chevron’s second attempt at
Russian offshore drilling after the state annulled a production
sharing agreement to develop a block of the coast of Sakhalin
Island in 2004.  
 “Russia is looking for foreign direct investment in
frontier areas where Russians do not have the expertise to
explore and develop themselves,”  Ed Chow , a senior fellow at
the Center for Strategic International Studies and a former
Chevron executive, said by e-mail. “There are oil companies
willing to test the investment climate in spite of Russia’s
dubious track record.”  
 Tax Exemptions  
 The state last year approved exemptions from mineral
extraction tax for the first 20 million metric tons of oil
produced from Black Sea deposits. Even so, Chevron Chief
Executive John Watson said the venture would seek tax breaks for
the project in a meeting with Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
during the signing of the agreement.  
 “Ideally, fiscal relief should come from a change in the
tax laws applying to new exploration and production projects,”
 Alexei Kokin , an oil and gas analyst at AFK Metropol, said by e-
mail today.  
 A deal would also mark Chevron’s initial foray into the
little-explored Black Sea after rival  Exxon Mobil Corp.  has
snapped up acreage in Turkey and Romania as have Petroleo
Brasileiro SA, OAO Lukoil and Vanco Energy.  
 Chevron will provide all financing, up to $1 billion, in
the venture’s exploration phase which would include drilling two
exploration wells and two appraisal wells on one discovery, the
document said, adding that Chevron will pay a Rosneft bonus in
the event of a discovery.  
 Venture Structure  
 The group will seek to structure the venture to allow
Chevron to book reserves, according to U.S. Securities Exchange
Commission requirements even though Rosneft will retain complete
ownership of the licenses to the venture’s West Chernomorsky
block, the agreement said.  
 Rosneft has identified 5 potential structures in the
deepwater block and potential resources of 860 million tons of
oil, according to the company website.  
 Drilling on the block is expected to begin at the end of
next year, Russian Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  said last
month at the time of the signing. The two companies will first
have to find a way to close negotiations which have been going
on since at least 2008.  
 Both Rosneft and Chevron declined to comment on ongoing
commercial negotiations.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Bierman  in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        