-- Chile to Seek Alternative Funding as Lawmakers Reject Mine Royalty Change
-- Matt Craze
-- 2010-07-08T19:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/chile-lawmakers-fail-to-agree-on-mining-royalty-changes-for-quake-funding.html

          
          
             Chilean senators and lower house
members in a joint committee failed to reach an agreement on
proposed changes to mining taxes, forcing the government to seek
alternative financing sources for earthquake reconstruction.  
 “We lost the opportunity as a country to increase
revenue,” Mining Minister  Laurence Golborne  told reporters in
Santiago. “We are going to find the mechanisms” to seek the
required funds, he said.  
 President  Sebastian Pinera ’s government sought to introduce
an optional sliding rate of 4 percent to 9 percent on profits to
help fund $8.4 billion in repairs needed after the Feb. 27
quake. The government may sell more bonds or increase its use of
fiscal savings to finance reconstruction if mining royalty
changes are rejected, which may impact the currency market,
Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  said June 17.  
 The Senate last month rejected the mining tax changes,
leaving it up to the joint committee to agree on a new model.
Opposition senators rejected a clause in the bill that would
allow companies to pay existing levies between 2013 and 2020.  
 The royalty proposal was part of an earthquake
reconstruction bill whose other articles, such as an increase in
corporate taxes, were approved last month in both houses.  
 Currency Effect  
 “Reconstruction financing could have a short-term impact,
although not long-term, on the real exchange rate, which
fundamentally is determined by growth, the evolution of exchange
terms and fiscal policy,”  Aldo Lema , an economist at Banco
Security, said in a telephone interview from Santiago.  
 Chile’s peso weakened 0.2 percent to 537.25 per U.S. dollar
from 535.95 yesterday. It had earlier strengthened to 534.08.  
 The government, which initially said the royalty changes
would raise $600 million in two years, proposed raising the
figure to $1 billion over three years in the first day of
committee talks yesterday, the Senate said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 Chile’s Mining Council--which represents the biggest mining
companies in the country including  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and Xstrata
Plc--declined to comment, a public relations officer said by
phone.  
 “It’s difficult to find another moment,” to propose
changes to the royalty, Minister Golborne said. The subject “is
closed,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randall Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        