-- Chile Inflation Swap Rates Rise as June Consumer Prices Miss Estimates
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-07-08T19:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/chile-inflation-swap-rates-rise-as-june-consumer-prices-miss-estimates.html

          
          
             Chilean inflation-linked swap rates
rose the most in a week after a report showed consumer prices in
June were unchanged from May, surprising traders and economists
who had expected a 0.2 price rise.  
 The six-month inflation-linked swap rate jumped 15 basis
points to minus 0.7 percent. Six-month breakeven inflation, the
pace of annual inflation priced into the swaps market, slowed to
3.06 percent from 3.25 percent, according to Bloomberg
calculations.  
 The inflation forwards market had priced in monthly
inflation of 0.21 percent and an annual pace of price rises of
1.4 percent, in line with the median forecast of 10 economists
in a  Bloomberg survey . Prices instead were unchanged after the
cost of fuel and clothing dropped.  
 “These swaps are very sensitive to inflation especially if
it’s negative or zero as it was today,” said  Siobhan Morden , a
strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut.  
 Breakeven inflation reflects expectations of the average
pace of year-on-year price rises.  
 The peso dropped today, erasing earlier gains, as copper,
Chile’s biggest export, slid on concern that slower global
economic growth will reduce metal demand and U.S. stock markets
gave up earlier gains. The currency weakened 0.2 percent to
537.25 per U.S. dollar from 535.95 yesterday. It had earlier
strengthened to 534.08.  
 Half-Point Rise  
 Interest-rate swaps  were little changed as economists
continued to expect a half-point interest-rate rise on July 15,
after the central bank raised the benchmark rate by 0.5 percent
to 1 percent last month.  
 Traders had increased bets on rate increases after economic
activity  expanded  7.1 percent, the fastest annual pace in almost
five years in May. The one-year interest-rate swap rate, a
measure of expectations of future rates, rose to 3.06 percent
yesterday, the highest since February 2009.  
 “Underlying inflation was still above expectations and
that was the first time in recent months,” said  Juan Pablo Castro , an economist at Banco Santander SA in Santiago.
“Today’s figure clearly reduces the chances of anything more
than 50 basis points, but we don’t see anything less than 50
basis points given the pace of activity.”  
 Underlying inflation, which excludes fuel and fresh
groceries, was 0.3 percent month-on-month in June, more than the
0.2 percent median forecast of nine economists in a Bloomberg
 survey .  
 Bond Sale  
 Chile hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Banco de Chile’s
Banchile Citi Global Markets unit to arrange a 10-year global
bond sale, El Mercurio reported today. HSBC Holdings Plc may
also help sell bonds, the Santiago-based newspaper reported,
without identifying the source of its information.  
 Tasha Pelio , a JPMorgan spokeswoman in New York, declined
to comment. Banchile had no comment, an external public
relations representative said by phone. Lucy Bennett, head of
communications at Chile’s Finance Ministry, said that the
Ministry declined to comment.  
 Chile will sell bonds in pesos to international investors
this year for the first time and also plans to sell bonds in
dollars for the first time since 2004.  
 To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        