-- Chile's June Consumer Prices Unchanged From May vs. Forecast for 0.2% Rise
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-07-08T14:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/chile-s-consumer-prices-unchanged-in-june-from-may-below-0-2-forecast.html

          
          
             Chile’s  consumer prices  were
unchanged in June from May, ending a run of five straight months
of gains, the National Statistics Institute said.  
 Prices rose 1.2 percent from a year earlier while monthly
underlying inflation, which excludes food and fuel, was 0.3
percent, the institute said in a statement today. The median
estimate of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for monthly
inflation of 0.2 percent.  
 Chile’s central bank on July 15 will raise its benchmark
interest rate by half a percentage point to 1.5 percent as an
economic recovery helps drive inflation closer to its target of
3 percent, according to the forecast of eight of nine economists
in a  Bloomberg survey . Today’s inflation report won’t be enough
to change rate estimates,  Matias Madrid , chief economist at
Banco Penta, said by telephone from Santiago.  
 “Remember the central bank makes its decision based on
inflation expectations and internal demand,” he said. “We
still expect the bank to raise rates by 50 basis points.”  
 Chile’s peso was little changed at 535.83 per U.S. dollar
at 10:24 a.m. New York time. One-year and two-year interest-rate
swap rates in pesos were unchanged.  
 In its quarterly monetary policy report published June 16,
the bank raised its inflation outlook for this year to 3.8
percent and reduced its growth forecast because the February
earthquake lowered output in March. Policy makers last month
increased the benchmark rate by 50 basis points from a record
low 0.5 percent.  
 Alcohol and tobacco led monthly price gains, climbing 6.9
percent, followed by food and nonalcoholic beverages at 0.4
percent, the institute said.  
 Gasoline prices slid 4.1 percent, while clothing decreased
2.7 percent and healthcare costs fell 0.6 percent. The slide in
clothing prices helps explain June’s lower-than-forecast
inflation, Banco Penta’s Madrid said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Randall Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net 
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        