-- Chimei Innolux, LucasFilm, Gucci, Virgin Condom: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-08T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/chimei-innolux-lucasfilm-gucci-virgin-condom-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Chimei Innolux Corp. , Taiwan’s
largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, sued  Sony Corp.  in the
U.S. and China for patent infringements.  
 Chimei Innolux seeks to halt the sale in the U.S. of Sony
products, including Bravia televisions, Cybershot digital
cameras and digital photo frames, and is asking for compensatory
damages, the Miaoli, Taiwan-based company said in an e-mail
yesterday, without specifying an amount. A suit was also filed
against Sony in China, it said. Spokesman Eddie Chen confirmed
the suits by phone yesterday.  
 Chimei Innolux, formed in March by the merger of Chi Mei
Optoelectronics Corp., Innolux Display Corp. and TPO Displays
Corp., supplies panels and partially assembled screens for use
in TVs, computer monitors and electronics products. Sony earlier
this year alleged Innolux and Hong Kong-based TPV Technology
Ltd. violated its intellectual property rights and asked a U.S.
trade agency to block imports of its products.  
 “We’re confirming the facts and can’t comment any further
at this point,” said Tokyo-based Sony spokesman Atsuo Omagari.  
 The U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington said
in April it would consider Sony’s claims that digital TVs and
monitors made in China by Innolux and TPV are infringing 10 of
the Japanese company’s patents.  
 The case announced by Chimei Innolux today is “not
specifically related” to Sony’s earlier complaint against it,
Chen said.  
 “CMI has invested significant resources to technical
innovation, and focused on researching and developing advanced
flat-panel display technologies and products,” Peterson Tien,
Chimei Innolux’s General Counsel and Vice President said in the
statement. “After our recent three-way merger, our intellectual
properties portfolio has strengthened substantially and has
become more diversified.”  
 The two cases are filed in federal court in Arkansas and
the Beijing Intermediate People’s Court. The three disputed
patents are 5,495,265, 5,619,352 and 6,722,773, issued between
February 1996 and April 2004.  
 Chimei is represented in the U.S. case by  Nicholas H.
Patton  of  Patton, Tidwell and Schroeder LLP  of Texarkana, Texas.  
 That case is Chimei Innolux Corp., v. Sonly Corp., 5:10-cv-
05122-JLH, U.S. District Court, Western District of Arkansas
(Fayetteville).  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 LucasFilm Claims Portable Lasers Infringe LightSaber Copyright  
 LucasFilm Ltd. has told a Hong Kong maker of portable laser
devices that it’s infringing because its product is too much
like the lightsabers used in the “Star Wars” films, CNN
reported.  
 Wicked Lasers received a letter from the film company
demanding it either stop selling its Pro Arctic laser or modify
it so it doesn’t look like the hilt of the “Star Wars”
lightsabers, according to CNN.  
 Steve Liu, Wicked Laser’s chief executive, told CNN his
company has been selling its laser devices for years and “would
never use” a comparison to the lightsaber to promote the item.  
 Nicasio, California-based LucasFilm warned Wicked Laser
that the lightsabers are protected by copyright, according to
CNN.  
 U.K. Licenses Required for Playing Radio While Cutting Hair  
 A U.K. hairdresser was ordered to pay 1,500 British pounds
($2,275) in legal costs for playing the radio while cutting
hair, the Lancashire Evening Post  reported .  
 Phonographic Performance Ltd., a royalties collector,
complained that the House of Hair and Beauty in Friargate,
Preston, filed to obtain the necessary license to let the radio
or a CD player “perform” music, according to the newspaper.  
 The shop manager had taken a license from the Performing
Rights Society, which covered only royalties to songwriters and
music publishers, according to the Post.  
 The case began after an inspector heard music by the Black
Eyed Peas on a radio at the shop in June 2009, the post
reported.  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Gucci Can Go After Credit Card Services Companies, Judge Says  
 Gucci Group ’s Gucci American unit persuaded a federal judge
that companies that provide credit card services to sellers of
fake goods can be pursued for trademark infringement.  
 The luxury goods maker sued Frontline Processing Corp. of
Bozeman, Montana; Woodforest National Bank of The Woodlands
Texas; and Durango Merchant Services LLC of Durango, Colorado,
in federal court in Manhattan in August 2009. Gucci claimed they
contributed to trademark infringement by facilitating payment to
merchants that specialized in fakes.  
 U.S. District Judge Harold Baer Jr. agreed with Gucci, and
in a 24-page order said allegations in the complaint are
“sufficient to infer” that Durango intentionally induced
trademark infringement, and that Woodforest and Frontline
“knowingly provided” services to a counterfeiter.  
 He notes that Durango’s own website described itself as a
company “specializing in services for ‘High Risk Merchant
Accounts,’ including those who sell ‘Replica Products.’”  
 In a separate order on July 2, Judge Baer ordered Durango
to pay the cost for reconstructing its computer hard drives on
which file-scrubbing software had been run the day before a
company official was to have been deposed in the case. He said
Durango could not run any further software of this type or
delete or destroy documents “that could be relevant to this
litigation.”  
 Gucci is represented by  Kimberly Michelle Lindsay ,  Jennifer
Colgan Halter ,  Howard Sean Hogan ,  Anne Maureen Coyle,  and  Robert
L. Weigel  of Los Angeles-based  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP .  
 The case is Gucci America Inc., v. Frontline Processing
Corp., 1:09-cv-06925-HB, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  
 Virgin Group Mounts Successful Challenge to Condom Trademark  
 Richard Branson’s  Virgin Group  prevailed in a trademark
dispute with an Australian importer of condoms, the Smart
Company news website  reported .  
 Australia’s Virgin International Pty Ltd. sought to
register a trademark featuring the silhouette of a woman whose
wide spread legs formed the “V” in the word “virgin,”
according to Smart Company.  
 The Australian company is owned by an olive oil seller who
previously was successful in a trademark action brought by
Branson’s London-based company over a brand for the oil, Smart
Company reported.  
 Virgin Group argued that the condom trademark application
be rejected because the importer neglected to register them with
an Australian regulatory agency with jurisdiction over medical
devices, according to Smart Company.  
 Gail Zappa Fails to Bar Use of Family Name by Festival  
 The widow of musician  Frank Zappa  can’t bar a German music
festival from using a version of his name, the Higher Regional
Court in Dusseldorf, Germany, has ruled and the Register
information-technology news website  reported .  
 Gail Zappa  had objected to the name of the  Zappanale 
festival, which features the late musician’s music, according to
the Register.  
 The court said she hadn’t made enough use of the Zappa name
in commerce for it to be considered a protected trademark, the
website reported.  
 She had sought 150,000 Euros ($190,000) in damages,
according to the Register.  
 Mott’s Sues Labor Union Over In-Store Label Alterations  
 Dr Pepper Snapple Group Inc. ’s Mott’s unit sued a labor
union for trademark infringement.  
 The  United Food and Commercial Workers International Union 
is accused of “adulterating and mutilating” labels for Mott’s
products. The juice company is presently the target of an in-
store  labor action by the union that involves printing out
labels and affixing them to Mott’s products, according to a
union website,  www.nobadapples.org .  
 The placement of these unauthorized labels alters Mott’s
presentation of its trademark and trade dress, the company said
in the complaint filed July 6 in federal court in Dallas.  
 Mott’s also claims that union members are urged to
photograph the altered product and publicize this on social
networking sites such as the one operated by Facebook Inc.  
 According to the union website, the labels complain of a
possible wage cut of $1.50 an hour.  
 One label reads “CEO doubled his pay, now they propose
wage cuts of $1.50 hr.” Another states “In 2009, Mott’s parent
company made $555,000,000 in profits. Now they propose wage cuts
of $1.50 per hour.”  
 Mott’s said it’s harmed by the placement of these labels
and deprived “of its absolute right to determine the manner in
which its trademark, trade dress and image is presented to the
public.”  
 It asked the court to find that its trademarks are
infringed, and to order the union to stop placing the
objectionable labels or encouraging others to do so. It’s also
seeking money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  
 Mott’s, based in Plano, Texas, asked that the damages award
be tripled to punish the union for its actions.  
 Mott’s is represented by  Bart A. Lazar  of Chicago’s
 Seyfarth Shaw LLP  and  Chad A. Johnson  and  Richard A. Illmer  of
 Brown McCarroll LLP  of Austin, Texas.  
 The case is Motts LLP v. United Food and Commercial Workers
International Union, 3:10-cv-01315-P, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 Cache Says Its Fashion Line Isn’t Based on Chico’s Designs  
 Cache Inc. , a New York-based apparel chain, denies all
allegations of trade-secret theft made by competitor  Chico’s FAS
Inc.   
 In a July 7 statement, Cache says the allegations Chico’s
made in a July 30 complaint filed in New York state court are
frivolous and baseless.  
 Chico’s sued Cache after two senior merchant management
team members joined the New York company. After the two former
employees went to Cache, Chico’s claimed its designs were stolen
and presented as Cache’s own.  
 Many of the styles that were allegedly copied “look
nothing like” the designs Cache produced, the company said in a
 statement  July 7. Other styles that were allegedly copied had
actually previously been created by Cache, and were simply “re-
colored and repeated” in its spring and summer 2010
collections, the company said.  
 Cache claims the suit was filed to “impair its
reputation” and that the litigation is “a waste of shareholder
money and consumer tax dollars.”  
 The case is White House/Black Market v. Cache Inc., 650774-
2010, New York Supreme Court, New York County.  
 IP Moves  
 Donovan & Yee Expands Practice With Two Trademark Specialists  
 Donovan & Yee LLP , an IP boutique, hired two new partners,
the New York-based firm said in a  statement .  
 The two new hired, Nancy J. Mertzel and Heather L. Heft,
are both trademark specialists.  
 Mertzel , who previously practiced at New York’s  Thelen LLP ,
has done litigation, trademark registration and licensing.  
 She has an undergraduate degree from the University of
Rochester and a law degree from American University.  
 Heft , who joined from New York’s  Stroock & Stroock and
Lavan LLP , has done trademark, work for financial-industry
clients.  
 She has an undergraduate degree from the University of
Pennsylvania and a law degree from Columbia University.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        