-- North Korea Avoids Blame in UN Statement on Warship Sinking
-- Seonjin Cha
-- 2010-07-09T03:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/china-u-s-agree-at-un-to-condemn-march-attack-on-south-korean-warship.html

          
          
             The United Nations refrained from
blaming North Korea for the March sinking of a South Korean
warship that killed 46 sailors, according to a draft statement
backed by the U.S. and China.  
 “The UN seemed to weigh on keeping peace on the Korean
peninsula by using very neutral language rather than taking
sides,” said Kim Yong Hyun, professor of Dongguk University in
Seoul for North Korean Studies. “The South Korean government
may not be happy with the statement, even though it was expected,
because the UN didn’t reflect its position.”  
 The UN language is a blow to South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak , who has called on China to acknowledge North Korea’s
responsibility and on the UN to take “appropriate action.” By
not specifically blaming North Korea, the UN may help restart
six-nation talks on dismantling the communist regime’s nuclear
program, Kim said.  
 “The Security Council condemns the attack which led to the
sinking of the Cheonan,” the draft statement says. The text
“takes note” of North Korea’s denial of involvement in the
March 26 incident.  
 A multinational investigation reported on June 14 that a
North Korean-made torpedo caused the sinking. The draft says
that “in view of the findings” of the panel, the Security
Council “expresses its deep concern.”  
 Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the UN, said the
statement was a “very clear and appropriate response.” She
said adoption of the statement would “send a unified message
that the Security Council condemns the attack.”  
 ‘Endangers Peace’  
 The draft statement also says the incident “endangers
peace and security in the region” and “calls for appropriate
and peaceful measures to be taken against those responsible for
the incident.”  
 The permanent members of the Security Council -- Britain,
China, France, Russia and the U.S. -- agreed on the text
following more than a month of negotiations that also included
Japan and South Korea. They gave the draft statement to the
other 10 members of the panel with the expectation that it would
be adopted unanimously tomorrow, according to Rice.  
 North Korea’s ambassador to the UN said on June 16 that any
Security Council statement “condemning us or questioning us”
would produce a military response. “Follow-up measures will be
carried out by our military forces” Ambassador Sin Son Ho told
reporters.  
 South Korea initially sought a Security Council resolution
explicitly condemning North Korea for sinking the Cheonan,
demanding an apology and a commitment there will be no repeat of
the attack, and calling for a return to stability in the region.  
 ‘Funny Story’  
 North Korea’s Sin last month said the U.S. and South Korea
conspired to concoct a “funny story” about the sinking in an
effort to influence South Korean and U.S. elections this year.
The U.S. used the incident to persuade Japan to allow a U.S.
base to remain on the island of Okinawa, to build support for
arms sales to South Korea and to delay the handover to South
Korea of control of military forces along the demilitarized zone
between the two Koreas, he said.  
 The North Korean ambassador, who theorized that the Cheonan
might have run aground on “rocks,” said his government wants
to send an investigative team to the site of the sinking. South
Korea has rejected such a demand.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Varner  in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net ;
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        