-- Stocks Fall in China For First Time in 3 Days; Industrial Companies Slide
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-08T08:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/china-merchants-bank-chinalco-dongfeng-nanjing-china-equity-preview.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  dropped for the first
time in three days, led by industrial companies and energy
producers, as concern the government will step up tightening
measures overshadowed rising earnings.  
 China First Heavy Industries Co.  and China Erzhong Group
Deyang Heavy Industries Co. fell more than 1 percent after UBS
AG said China will “intensify” enforcement on land policies.
China Coal Energy Co. declined among energy producers after the
government said it will extend a resources tax to the entire
nation.  China Merchants Bank Co.  gained 0.5 percent after saying
first-half net income probably jumped more than 50 percent.  
 “It’s only illusion among investors that the government
will ease tightening measures soon,” said  Yan Ji , who helps
oversee about $1.5 billion at HSBC Jintrust in Shanghai. “For
the property market, the crackdown isn’t likely to be relaxed
within two years. A slowdown is certain.”  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  declined 5.97, or 0.3 percent,
to close at 2,415.15, erasing earlier gains and snapping a two-
day, 2.5 percent rebound. The  CSI 300 Index  slipped 0.2 percent
to 2,575.92.  
 The Shanghai Composite, Asia’s worst performer, has slumped
26 percent this year on concern government efforts to curb
inflation and property speculation will slow growth at the
world’s third-largest economy. Shares have also fallen as
China’s biggest banks announced as much as $54.5 billion in
fundraising after extending record loans last year.  
 Bank IPO  
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. is raising $19.2 billion in
what may be the world’s largest initial public offering,
according to people with knowledge of the pricing for Hong Kong
and Shanghai.  
 China may allow foreign companies to sell shares in
 Shanghai  next year,  Fang Xinghai , director general of Shanghai’s
financial services office, said in a Bloomberg TV interview.  
 China First Heavy, a maker of equipment used in the mining
and energy industries, dropped 1.3 percent to 5.40 yuan. China
Erzhong, an equipment supplier to power producers, lost 2.9
percent to 9.30 yuan.  Hebei Iron & Steel Co. , the listed unit of
China’s biggest steelmaker, fell 0.8 percent to 3.68 yuan.  
 The government has signaled it is “not about to reverse
current policies, but intensify enforcement into the second
half,” UBS analyst  Eric Wong  wrote in a note dated today. The
lands ministry will ensure 70 percent of land supply is used for
economic housing, investigate land hoarding and more strictly
monitor terms of land sales, Wong wrote.  
 Property Curbs  
 Authorities stepped up a crackdown on property speculation
after announcing the economy expanded at an 11.9 percent annual
pace in the first quarter, the most since 2007.  
 Deputy central bank Governor  Ma Delun  said the People’s
Bank of China’s monetary policy faces many new challenges as its
focus moves from money supply to controlling inflation, the
Shanghai Securities News reported.  
 China’s wages will increase by an average of between 15
percent and 20 percent annually for unskilled labor in the next
five to 10 years, according to Citigroup Inc. analyst  Eddie Lau 
in a report today. The rise in income should boost discretionary
spending, benefiting department stores and distributors of
appliances, according to the report.  
 China Coal, the nation’s second-largest coal producer, slid
1.1 percent to 8.43 yuan. Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., the listed
unit of China’s fourth-biggest coal miner, retreated 1.3 percent
to 15.90 yuan.  PetroChina Co. , the nation’s biggest oil company,
slipped 0.3 percent to 10.38 yuan.  
 Resources Tax  
 The rate of the tax on oil, gas and coal extractions will
be set at 5 percent and will vary across commodities, Du Ying,
vice chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission,
said in Beijing today. It’s “unclear” when the tax will be
extended beyond Xinjiang province, Du said.  
 China introduced a 5 percent resources tax based on prices
instead of volume in Xinjiang June 1, and is planning to broaden
the levy to cover all western provinces.  
 Merchants Bank, the nation’s fifth-largest, climbed 0.5
percent to 13.21 yuan. The company said profit rose on wider
margins and higher income.  
 Other companies with positive earnings gained.  Anhui Heli
Co. , a machinery maker, jumped 6 percent to 13.08 yuan after
saying first-half net income may rise as much as 33-fold from a
year earlier.  Dongfeng Automobile Co.  which makes light trucks
with Nissan Motor Co., rallied 3.3 percent to 4.69 yuan. The
company said first-half net income will more than triple.  
 Around 54 percent of A share companies’ first-half guidance
indicate year-on-year net income growth of more than 50 percent,
UBS AG’s Hong Kong-based strategist  John Tang  wrote in a report
July 6.  
 Stock Rebound  
 The  CSI 300  is in a “good position” to rebound after
dropping more than any other Asian stock measure this year,
according to technical analysis by Nomura Holdings Inc.  
 The CSI 300 has touched the bottom band that marked its
downward trend this year and may rebound should that band hold,
Nomura analysts Kenneth Chan,  Tacky Cheng  and  Desmond Chan  wrote
in a report yesterday. The gauge’s  relative strength index  also
suggests Chinese stocks are “oversold” while the 2,500 level
is a “good reference for medium-term support,” according to
the analysts.  
 The following companies were among the most active in
China’s markets. Stock symbols are in brackets after companies’
names.  
 Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co.  (600418 CH), a unit of
China’s biggest light-truck exporter, gained 4.8 percent to 6.84
yuan after saying its sales of heavy trucks in June rose 110
percent from a year earlier to 2,368 units.  
      Tianjin Reality Development (Group) Co.  (600322 CH) surged
the 10 percent daily cap to 4.58 yuan after the Chinese property
developer said first-half profit at least doubled.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Richard Frost ,  Reinie Booysen   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        