-- China May Allow Foreign Listings in Shanghai Next Year, City Official Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-08T06:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/china-may-allow-foreign-companies-to-list-in-shanghai-next-year-fang-says.html

          
          
             China may allow foreign companies to
sell stock in  Shanghai  next year, opening the world’s largest
market for first-time share sales and advancing the city’s bid
to become an international financial center.  
 “The preparation work is proceeding quite nicely,” said
 Fang Xinghai , director general of Shanghai’s financial services
office, in a Bloomberg TV interview. Asked when overseas
companies will be allowed to list on the city’s stock exchange,
Fang said, “sometime next year, I hope.”  
 HSBC Holdings Plc  and London Stock Exchange Group Plc are
among companies that have expressed interest in a Shanghai
listing when China opens the world’s largest market for stock
sales to foreign firms. Companies may raise about 500 billion
yuan ($74 billion) in initial public offerings in Shanghai and
Shenzhen this year, more than in any other country,
PricewaterhouseCoopers said July 5.  
 “Having a foreign board creates a deeper and broader
capital market,” said  Peter Alexander , Shanghai-based principal
at Z-Ben Advisors. “It’s one of many steps toward achieving the
stated goal of making Shanghai a global financial center.”  
 The China Securities Regulatory Commission and the Shanghai
stock exchange “are taking the lead” in preparing rules
governing stock offerings by overseas companies in the city,
Fang said.  
 In April, the China Daily said Shanghai may start the board
this year, citing Xu Quan, deputy director of the city’s
financial service office.  
 Shanghai Discount  
 Shanghai has been contacted by foreign companies from the
finance, telecommunications, consumer goods and manufacturing
industries about selling shares in the city, Fang said in May.
The city is introducing investment products to tap the nation’s
corporate and household savings.  
 Two overseas companies and one red-chip firm -- a company
controlled by Chinese owners and listed abroad -- may debut on
Shanghai’s international board as early as in this year’s second
half, Frank Lyn, PwC’s China markets leader, said July 5,
without identifying the firms.  
 A  stock market slump  that left Shanghai shares trading at a
discount to equities in Hong Kong has made offerings in China
less appealing to foreign companies, said  Jonathan Masse , a fund
manager at Walnut Creek, California-based AlphaShares Inc.  
 Companies with “a great deal of business in China are
likely to be less inclined to IPO on the mainland, as any
capital raised would likely be at an international discount,”
he said.  
 HSBC, Wal-Mart  
 Yuan-denominated A shares, which are restricted almost
exclusively to local investors, fell below Chinese stocks traded
in Hong Kong last month for the first time in almost four years,
according to the  Hang Seng China AH Premium Index .  
 CSRC Vice Chairman  Yao Gang  said at a forum in Shanghai in
June that legal and jurisdictional issues need to be resolved
before the international board can be started.  
 London-based HSBC, Europe’s largest bank by market value,
is waiting for rules governing Shanghai listings by foreign
companies to be completed, Chief Executive Officer  Michael Geoghegan  said last month in Shanghai. The lender aims to raise
a “significant amount” on the city’s stock market, he said.  
 London Stock Exchange aims to list in Shanghai by the end
of 2011, CEO  Xavier Rolet  said in June. Coca-Cola Co., General
Electric Co. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. are among U.S. companies
that may seek listings in China, UBS AG strategist  John Tang 
wrote in a July 2009 report.  
 -- Eva Woo ,  Susan Li . Editors:  Joost Akkermans ,  Philip Lagerkranser   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eva Woo  in Beijing at 
 ewoo9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        