-- China Buys Japan Bonds at Record Pace, Helps Yield Drop to Seven-Year Low
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-07-08T08:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/china-boosted-japanese-bond-purchases-by-8-3-billion-in-may.html

          
          
             China bought a net 735.2 billion yen
($8.3 billion) of Japanese bonds in May, doubling purchases for
this year as it heads for the biggest annual increase since at
least 2005.  
 China’s purchases of Japanese debt have exceeded sales by
1.28 trillion yen since January, after net sales of 78.7 billion
yen in 2009, according to  data  released today by the Ministry of
Finance. This year’s purchases are nearly five times as much as
for the whole of 2005, which was the biggest year for Chinese
buying of Japanese bonds between 2005 and 2009, the data show.  
 “China bought more Japanese bonds probably because it sold
a portion of its European debt holdings during the sovereign
debt crisis,” said  Liu Yuhui , an economist in Beijing at the
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, a government-backed research
body. “The U.S. dollar and Japanese yen have been strong during
the crisis, which are attractive to China as it tries to control
exchange-rate risks in reserve investments.”  
 The yield on Japan’s benchmark 10-year bond dropped last
quarter by the most since the last three months of 2008,
declining to 1.055 percent on July 1, the lowest since August
2003. The bond yielded 1.135 percent as of 4:48 p.m. in Tokyo.  
 China may reconsider the composition of its foreign-
exchange reserves, the world’s largest, which have so far
focused on U.S. Treasuries, said  Susumu Kato , chief economist in
Tokyo at Credit Agricole CIB and CLSA, a unit of France’s
largest bank by branches.  
 ‘Welcome Step’  
 China’s decision to buy more Japanese debt “is a welcome
step,” Kato said. “China has long underweighted the holding of
the yen in its foreign-currency reserves as part of political
strategies, including the decision to peg the yuan to the U.S.
dollar.”  
 Japan has been increasing links with China as the world’s
fastest growing economy became its largest customer for exports
in 2009. Japanese shipments to China tripled from 2000 to 2009,
and Chinese demand has helped sustain Japan’s recovery from its
deepest postwar recession.  
 Overseas investors held 6.2 percent of Japan’s government
bonds at the end of December, according to the central bank’s
quarterly flow of funds report.  
 China bought 694.8 billion yen more shorter-maturity
Japanese notes than it sold in May, and purchased a net 40.4
billion yen in longer-dated bonds.  
 Japan’s government revised the way it calculates bond-
purchase data in 2005, the ministry has said.  
 Treasury Holdings  
 China boosted holdings of  Treasury  securities for a second
month in April to $900.2 billion, according to U.S. data. The
Asian nation reduced its stake by 6.5 percent from November
through February. The People’s Bank of China said June 19 it
will relax the yuan’s 23-month peg to the dollar. China’s
foreign-exchange reserves stood at $2.45 trillion on March 31.  
 The manager of China’s foreign-exchange reserves said the
U.S. bond market is important and changes in holdings of
Treasuries “shouldn’t be politicized.”  
 The benefits of investing in U.S. government debt include
“relatively good” safety, liquidity and low trading costs, the
State Administration of Foreign Exchange said yesterday in a
 statement  on its website. China increasing or cutting the amount
of U.S. debt it owns “is normal” and decisions are made based
on market conditions, it said.  
 “We are closely watching and tracking all kinds of
changes” affecting prices of the U.S. government debt and
“make dynamic adjustments to our investments, which shouldn’t
be politicized,” the SAFE said. Concern China might consider
the “nuclear” option of dumping its Treasury holdings is
“completely unnecessary,” the regulator added.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        