-- China to Extend Resources Tax to Entire Nation to Fund Government Spending
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-08T09:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/china-will-introduce-new-resources-tax-to-entire-nation-benchmarked-at-5-.html

          
          
             China plans to extend a tax on oil,
gas and coal output to the entire nation, stepping up efforts to
raise funds for development of poorer inland provinces in a move
that will reduce earnings for resource producers.  
 The government will set a benchmark rate of 5 percent that
will vary across commodities, Du Ying, vice chairman of the
National Development and Reform Commission, said in Beijing
today. It’s “unclear” when it will be applied nationwide, he
said. The tax, introduced in Xinjiang province last month, will
be extended through western areas, the government said on July 6.  
 The tax will cut profits for  PetroChina Co.  and China
Shenhua Energy Co. while boosting revenues for investment in the
country’s restive  western provinces . The government follows
Australia in increasing taxes on resources extraction after
China’s economic growth drove a global boom in earnings for
commodity companies.  
 “This is a long overdue policy change,”  Qu Hongbin , a
Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc., said by
telephone. “There is much need in infrastructure development,
and this should help relatively undeveloped areas like the
western or even central regions.”  
 China will embark on  23 projects  in the west this year at a
cost of 682.2 billion yuan ($100 billion), the NDRC said on June
6. They include the construction of roads and railways, wind
farms and a nuclear power plant in Guangxi province.  
 Policies to develop the interior come as China takes steps,
including subsidies for automobile purchases, to boost domestic
consumption and help cut reliance on exports for economic growth.  
 The country’s economic development will be driven by
“whether we can continue to boost internal demand and make it a
strategic goal for overall sustainable growth, and whether we
can break the bottleneck of constraints on resources,” Du said.  
 Impact on Earnings  
 PetroChina, operator of the Tarim gas field in Xinjiang,
rose 0.4 percent in Hong Kong trading, compared with the 1
percent advance in the benchmark Hang Seng Index. China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. dropped 1 percent. The company known
as Sinopec produces oil in Tahe field in the province.  
 Shenhua and China Coal Energy Co. have mines in Shaanxi,
Ningxia and Inner Mongolia, the biggest coal-producing province.
 Shenhua , China’s largest coal producer, gained 0.9 percent,
while China Coal climbed 2.7 percent.  
 “If it goes nationwide this year and the companies get a
full year of impact from the tax, it may take down PetroChina’s
earnings per share by 12 percent and Sinopec 7 percent,”
 Brynjar Eirik Bustnes , an analyst at JPMorgan Securities Ltd.,
said by telephone from Hong Kong.  
 Australian Tax  
 President  Hu Jintao  has pledged to double investment in
Xinjiang after China’s deadliest riots in decades left at least
197 people dead in the provincial capital in July last year. The
province was the country’s fourth-largest crude oil producer in
2009, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  
 In Australia, former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd ’s plan to
impose a 40 percent tax on mining companies led to his ouster as
his approval ratings slumped amid opposition from mining
companies and threatened the ruling Labor Party’s election
prospects.  
 His successor,  Julia Gillard , scaled back the proposed tax
to 30 percent to win the industry’s support and ease concern
that the levy would curb investments and slow economic growth.  
 -- Wang Ying  and  Chua Baizhen . With assistance from  Sophie Leung 
in Hong Kong. Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  Nerys Avery .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net ;
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     'This is a long overdue policy change,” Qu Hongbin, a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc., said. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
