-- Coffee Futures Fall as Brazil's Crop May Escape Frost Damage; Cocoa Drops
-- Elizabeth Campbell
-- 2010-07-08T18:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/coffee-futures-fall-as-brazil-s-crop-may-escape-frost-damage-cocoa-drops.html

          
          
             Arabica-coffee futures fell for the
third time in four sessions after a weather forecaster said
Brazil’s crop, the world’s largest, should be undamaged by frost
this month. Cocoa also declined.  
 The prospect of freezing weather in the South American
country sent coffee prices to a 12-year high in New York last
month. The risk was lowered yesterday when Sao Paulo-based
forecaster  Somar Meteorologia  predicted that Brazil’s main
producing area probably will be frost-free through July.  
 “There were a lot of jitters off of the fact that some
cold weather moved into the area earlier than usual,” said  Tom Mikulski , a senior market strategist at Lind-Waldock, a broker
in Chicago. “With no weather premium and the harvest moving
along as scheduled, it’s hard not to be a little bearish right
now.”  
 Arabica coffee for September delivery fell 0.95 cent, or
0.6 percent, to $1.621 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.
Prices have jumped 19 percent this year.  
 Global coffee output will probably be 133 million to 135
million bags in the year that begins Oct. 1, the International
Coffee Organization said today in an e-mailed report from
London. That’s up at least 10 percent from the 120.6 million
bags estimated for the current year.  
 Bigger Crops?  
 “There are indications that production levels are
gradually increasing,”  Nestor Osorio , ICO’s executive director,
said in the report. “A return to normal production levels in a
number of producing countries could contribute to the
application of corrections as supplies of new crop arrive on the
market.”  
 Brazil’s production may total about 50 million bags, the
trade group said. A bag of coffee weighs 60 kilograms (132
pounds).  
 “Once the harvest is done, you’re going to see a large
influx of coffee into the market,” Mikulski said. “If
production numbers hold up, I don’t see any reason how this
market could hang onto these levels.”  
 Cocoa futures for September delivery fell $12, or 0.4
percent, to $2,969 a metric ton in New York. Prices have gained
17 percent in the past year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        