-- Colombia's Peso Strengthens the Most in Two Months as S&P Raises Outlook
-- Andrea Jaramillo
-- 2010-07-08T19:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/colombia-s-peso-strengthens-the-most-in-two-weeks-as-s-p-raises-outlook.html

          
          
             Colombia’s peso rose the most in two
months after Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services raised its
outlook on the country’s credit rating to positive.  
 The peso jumped 1.1 percent to 1,884.98 per U.S. dollar at
2:08 p.m. New York time, from 1,906.20 yesterday. That’s its
biggest advance on a closing basis since May 10. Colombian
markets closed before S&P’s announcement yesterday.  
 S&P, which rates Colombia BB+, or one level below
investment grade, raised the outlook from stable, citing
optimism President-elect  Juan Manuel Santos ’s plan to reduce
debt and create a stabilization fund will boost the economy’s
“resilience.”  
 “An investment-grade rating would boost flows into
Colombia,” said  Carlos Torres , head analyst at Medellin-based
brokerage Asesores en Valores SA.  
 The positive outlook “reflects the likelihood of an
upgrade if the next administration pursues policies that
strengthen the growing resilience of the economy, including
reducing its vulnerability to external shocks,” S&P credit
analyst  Joydeep Mukherji  said in the statement.  
 Colombia’s government should consider capitalizing on its
oil riches by creating a fiscal stabilization fund once it cuts
debt to a desirable level, according to policy recommendations
made by officials from the Finance Ministry, central bank and
national planning department presented yesterday.  
 Strengthening Trend  
 Santos has said he plans to create a dollar-denominated
sovereign wealth fund using royalties from oil and coal,
dividends from state oil company Ecopetrol SA and tax revenue.  
 The peso has jumped 8.4 percent this year, the best
performance among all currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Speculation the central bank will intervene in the foreign-
exchange market to stem the currency’s rally is easing gains in
the peso, according to Torres.  
 Banco de la Republica last month ended the purchase of $20
million each day in the foreign-exchange market. Policy makers
said March 3 the bank would purchase $20 million daily through
June 30 to curb a rally they said left the peso “misaligned.”  
 “The peso’s natural trend is to continue strengthening,
given increased foreign investment flows as well as exports,”
said Torres. “The risk, however, is that the central bank may
come in at any moment and take measures, and that’s limiting
that trend.”  
 Peso Bonds  
 Central bank director  Cesar Vallejo  said in an interview
yesterday that the peso is trading close to equilibrium. Banco
de la Republica has no immediate plans to buy dollars in the
spot market because that tactic isn’t effective at slowing the
currency’s appreciation, he said.  
 Separately, central bank director  Carlos Gustavo Cano  said
in an interview yesterday that he is “worried” about the
strong peso and that the economy is showing “clear signs” of
so-called Dutch disease.  
 Dutch disease is a sudden surge of wealth that ultimately
hampers expansion. The term was first applied to a surge in
income from new natural-gas fields in the Netherlands during the
1960s that triggered a currency gain and eroded other exporters’
earnings.  
 The yield on Colombia’s benchmark 11 percent bonds due July
2020 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.66
percent, according to Colombia’s stock exchange. That’s its
lowest level on a closing basis since April 2006. The bond’s
price rose 0.092 centavo to 122.809 centavos per peso.  
 S&P’s move follows comments from  Alessandra Alecci , an
analyst with Moody’s Investors Service, who said in a June 30
interview that the agency is “optimistic” on Colombia and that
there is “potential” for the South American country to move
towards investment grade. Speculation an upgrade would lure more
foreign investors to the country’s debt has pushed yields on the
2020 peso bonds to drop 18 basis points since June 29.  
 Moody’s rates Colombia’s foreign debt Ba1, or one level
below investment grade. It has a stable outlook on the rating.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        