-- Common Cause, Parents' Group Join Coalition to Oppose Comcast-NBC Merger
-- Todd Shields
-- 2010-07-08T18:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/comcast-nbc-deal-opposed-by-coalition-including-common-cause-parent-group.html

          
          
             Common Cause and the Parents
Television Council are among 21 organizations that formed a
coalition to oppose  Comcast Corp. ’s takeover of  General Electric
Co. ’s  NBC Universal  as proposed.  
 The  Coalition for Competition in the Media  includes
consumer advocacy groups, telecommunications workers,
independent programmers and minority-media interests, the
coalition said today in an e-mailed statement.  
 U.S. regulators should “use their authority to protect the
public interest,” the coalition said in the statement that
didn’t specify what changes should be made in the deal announced
in December.  
 The $28 billion transaction would give Philadelphia-based
Comcast, the largest U.S. cable company, control of NBC’s
network, owned-and-operated TV stations, cable channels and a
movie studio. The Federal Communications Commission and the
Justice Department are reviewing the transaction, with no
deadline for a decision.  
 The merged company would let Comcast dominate in Chicago
and charge higher prices for cable subscriptions and
advertising, the group said as a  congressional hearing  was held
today in that city. Ads by the coalition in Chicago newspapers
said NBC’s local TV station, its Telemundo Spanish-language
station and a Comcast regional sports network “shouldn’t be
controlled by one cable company.”  
 Illinois Options  
 Comcast said viewers in Illinois will have options after
the proposed merger. The company will compete with  AT&T Inc. ,
 DirecTV  and  Dish Network Corp. , Senior Vice President  Joe Waz 
said in a  blog posting . Out of 190 channels in Comcast’s most
popular programming package, 30 will be affiliated with the new
company, Waz said.  
 Comcast pledged to increase training and internship
opportunities for minority students and add four channels mostly
owned by black investors after the merger, according to a  letter 
submitted for today’s hearing.  
 The combined company should be required to offer wholesale
high-speed Internet access to independent service providers,
 Samuel DeSimone Jr. ,  Earthlink Inc.  general counsel, told the
panel, according to a statement. Comcast has refused to offer
such service to Earthlink in most service areas, forestalling
competition, DeSimone said in testimony for the hearing.  
 The new coalition is made up of “the same group of
organizations” that has been opposing the joint venture, said
 Sena Fitzmaurice , a Comcast spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  
 The proposed merger has attracted “wide-ranging support,”
Fitzmaurice said. The FCC has received more than 860 letters of
support, including from the mayors of Chicago, Philadelphia, Los
Angeles and Baltimore, she said.  
 Members of the coalition also include advocacy groups Free
Press and Media Access Project, the Organization for the
Promotion and Advancement of Small Telecommunications Companies
and Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, according to the
statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        