-- Companies Plan $4.5 Billion of Debt as New Sales Surge: New Issue Alert
-- Katie Evans
-- 2010-07-08T09:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/companies-plan-4-5-billion-of-debt-as-new-sales-surge-new-issue-alert.html

          
          
             Companies are marketing $4.54 of debt
after the busiest day for new U.S. dollar issuance this month.  
 Sales were $5.68 billion yesterday, led by offerings from
Time Warner Inc. and Royal Bank of Canada, marking the highest
daily volume since June 21, when issuance totaled $10.45
billion, and one of only four days in the past month in which
sales were more than $5 billion.  
 The increased volume comes amid declining corporate default
rates, rising levels of cash, and money inflows to the U.S. that
are driving a “constructive outlook on credit” according to a
report by bond research firm CreditSights Inc.  
 “Plentiful liquidity over the last 18 months has driven a
refinancing boom that has made meaningful inroads to addressing
the refinancing challenges of many corporates,” a team of
CreditSights Inc. strategists including  Louise Purtle  in New
York and  David Watts  in London wrote in the report.  
 Macroeconomic events such as downgraded growth forecasts
and the effect of the European sovereign debt crisis are likely
to result in a “volatile second-half with a bias to wider
spread levels,” according to the report.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own high-risk, high-
yield debt instead of Treasury bonds narrowed 4 basis points to
710 basis points yesterday, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II index. The spread has
widened 71 basis points this year.  
 High-Yield Sale  
 Postmedia Network Inc. , the Canadian international media
company, sold $275 million of 8-year notes at a 13 percent yield
in the only high-yield transaction to price yesterday.  
 Speculative-grade bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB by Standard & Poor’s. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  
  Time Warner Inc. , the owner of Warner Bros. movie studio
and the HBO cable channel, led investment-grade sales yesterday,
issuing $3 billion split evenly among 5-year, 10 1/2-year, and
30-year maturities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 New York-based Time Warner said in a prospectus filed with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that proceeds will
be used to repay debt and for general corporate purposes.  
 Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s largest bank, sold $1
billion of 5 1/2-year notes at a 90 basis-point spread to U.S.
Treasuries.  
 Credit Suisse Group AG sold $500 million of debt due 2015
in a reopening of a March offering, bringing the total size to
$2 billion.  
 Investment-grade spreads expanded 1 basis point to 208
basis points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S.
Corporate Master index.  
 Sales this week total $7.78 billion, compared with $7.08
billion in the corresponding period last week, Bloomberg data
show.  
 Following is a description of at least $4.54 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  
 Investment Grade  
 CHILE plans to sell $1 billion of 10-year bonds, along with
warrants and peso debt, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Chile will use the proceeds
for general purposes, the filing said. The country is seeking
financing for repairs after a Feb. 27 earthquake and subsequent
tsunami killed more than 400 people and caused as much as $30
billion of damage. Moody’s upgraded Chile’s rating to Aa3 from
A1 on June 16, citing “economic and financial resilience even
in the face of major adverse shocks, including February’s
historic earthquake.”  
 DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, may raise as
much as $1 billion from bond sales, its chief executive officer
said. The money is likely to be raised for five years and is
meant to “fix the maturity mismatch” on the bank’s balance
sheet,  Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a June 16 telephone
interview from Doha. The bank hasn’t decided which currency to
sell the bonds in, he said. The lender said in April that it
planned to sell senior notes in dollars in a statement on the
Qatari bourse, without disclosing the size of the offering.  
 FORETHOUGHT FINANCIAL GROUP INC. plans to sell $150 million
of 10-year bonds, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. S&P assigned the notes a grade of BBB- in a March 24
report.  
 Not Rated  
 KUWAIT PROJECTS CO., an investment company with $18.6
billion in consolidated assets, plans to sell 10-year bonds in
dollars, according to a banker involved in the transaction.
Standard Chartered Plc said in an e-mailed report that the bonds
would offer “fair value” at a yield of “around 10 percent.”  
 BANCO MERCANTIL DO BRASIL SA, a Brazilian bank based in
Minas Gerais state, plans to sell dollar bonds in overseas
markets, said a person familiar with the offering. The bank may
pay a yield of about 9.75 percent on the 10-year notes, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Bank of America Corp., Banco Santander SA, Espirito Santo SA and
Jefferies & Co. are arranging the sale, the person said.  
 DANFIN FUNDING LTD. may sell as much as $1 billion of
three-year pass-through notes backed by Danish financial
institutions’ loans, according to a person familiar with the
offering. The debt, which will be guaranteed by Denmark, may
include fixed- or floating-rate notes, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  
 The PROVINCE OF CORDOBA, Argentina, plans to sell as much
as $350 million of bonds in international markets once the
federal government completes a restructuring of defaulted debt,
Banco de Cordoba said.  
 SENSIENT TECHNOLOGIES CORP. said it entered into an
agreement with a group of four financial institutions for the
issuance of $110 million in fixed-rate, senior notes, according
to a Nov. 19 statement distributed by Business Wire. The company
plans to issue seven-year debt to repay existing indebtedness,
Sensient said in a March 1 regulatory filing.  
 High Yield  
 FIDELITY NATIONAL INFORMATION SERVICES INC. , the provider
of banking and payment technology, plans to sell $1.2 billion of
senior notes, according to a person familiar with the
transaction who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. The offering may be split between notes that mature in 2017
and debt due in 2020, said the person. Proceeds will be used to
buy back stock and repay debt used to buy Metavante Technologies
Inc., Jacksonville, Florida-based Fidelity National said in a
statement distributed by Business Wire. The company is rated Ba1
by Moody’s and BB by S&P.  
 OXEA FINANCE & CY S.C.A. plans to sell the equivalent of
500 million euros of seven-year bonds in dollars and euros,
according to two people with knowledge of the offering. Proceeds
will be used to repay debt, shareholder loans and a payment to
shareholders, and for general corporate purposes, the people
said. S&P rated the proposed offering a B+ on June 29.  
 GENTIVA HEALTH SERVICES INC. , the U.S. home-nursing
company that is buying Odyssey HealthCare Inc., plans to sell
$305 million of eight-year notes, the Atlanta-based company said
in a May 24 regulatory filing, without specifying the timing of
the transaction. Proceeds will be used to help fund the
takeover, according to the filing. Standard & Poor’s assigned
the unsecured notes a B- credit rating on June 29. Moody’s
Investors Service rated the notes a grade of B2 and ranked $925
million of loans three steps higher at Ba2, it said in a report.  
 UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES INC., the operator of more than
100 U.S. medical facilities that’s buying Psychiatric Solutions
Inc., plans to sell $400 million of senior unsecured debt to
help finance the acquisition, it said in a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 PROMSVYAZBANK OJSC , Russia’s third-largest private bank,
plans to sell $200 million of six-year loan participation notes
at a yield of 11.25 percent, according to two people with
knowledge of the sale.  
 AKBANK TAS , the Turkish bank part-owned by Citigroup Inc.,
plans to sell five-year, dollar-denominated eurobonds worth up
to $1 billion, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock
Exchange. Moody’s Investor Services assigned a provisional Ba1
rating.  
 CEDAR FAIR ENTERTAINMENT CO., the operator of amusement
parks that called off a takeover by an Apollo Management LP
affiliate, said it plans to sell $500 million of senior
unsecured notes due in 2020. Proceeds will be used to repay
existing debt, the Sandusky, Ohio-based company said in a May 20
statement distributed by PR Newswire. Moody’s Investor Service
rated the company’s senior notes B2, citing the refinancing
meaningfully improves the company’s liquidity position and
provides the company flexibility to reduce debt and manage
through a period of attendance-constraining high unemployment
notwithstanding the increase in cash interest costs resulting
from the refinancing.  
 IRSA INVERSIONES Y REPRESENTACIONES SA, Argentina’s biggest
real-estate company, extended an offer to sell $250 million in
10-year bonds until June 24, the company said in a regulatory
filing in Buenos Aires on June 14. S&P assigned the notes a
grade of B-, six steps below investment quality.  
 TITAN INTERNATIONAL INC., the maker of tire and wheel
systems for off-highway equipment, said it plans to sell at
least $150 million of senior unsecured notes. Proceeds will be
used to repurchase the 8 percent senior unsecured notes due in
2012 and for general corporate purposes, the Quincy, Illinois-
based company said in a May 13 statement distributed by Business
Wire.  
 INVENTIV HEALTH INC., the provider of sales and marketing
services to science companies that is being acquired by Thomas
H. Lee Partners, may sell $275 million of senior notes to back
the purchase, it said in a regulatory filing.  
 Offerings in Pipeline  
 POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC., the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  
 INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell
approximately $650 million of Islamic bonds in October, Dahlan
Siamat, director for Islamic financing at the finance ministry,
said in a telephone interview in Jakarta. The government sold
its first international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  
 NOMURA HOLDINGS INC.  Japan’s largest brokerage, plans to
sell dollar-denominated sukuk, or Islamic bonds, in Malaysia,
according to a July 6 company statement. Nomura may sell $100
million of Ijarah sukuk that will mature in 2012. The securities
will yield 160 basis points more than the London interbank
offered rate, said  Jamelah Jamaluddin , chief executive officer
of Kuwait Finance House (Malaysia) Bhd., a unit of Kuwait’s
biggest Islamic bank, the sale arranger.  
 OAO GAZPROMBANK , the lending unit of Russia’s gas export
monopoly, hired Barclays Capital, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, and UBS AG to organize meetings with investors in Europe
and Asia starting July 5, according to two people with knowledge
of the transaction.  
 CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESAROLLO S.A. Peru’s state
development bank known as Cofide, plans to sell as much as $250
million of dollar-denominated bonds, according to Chief
Financial Officer Carlos Linares. Linares said in an interview
in Lima, that the lender is selling long-term debt as it boosts
lending to local infrastructure projects. “Peru’s need for
infrastructure is huge,” Linares said. “The government is
trying to promote foreign investment in a long list of
projects.”  
 SRI LANKA plans to sell dollar-denominated bonds, according
to its central bank. The South Asian country’s third-ever
overseas offering is likely after August, Central Bank of Sri
Lanka Assistant Governor C.J.P. Siriwardena said in a telephone
interview on June 30.  
 GEORGIAN RAILWAY LTD. hired Bank of America Corp. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. for a sale of bonds in dollars, according
to a banker involved in the transaction.  
 JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  
 BANK OF EAST ASIA LTD.  hired Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. to help it sell subordinated 10-year bonds in
dollars, according to a person with direct knowledge of the
matter. The banks are meeting potential investors in Hong Kong
and Singapore, the person said.  
 URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a LatinFinance conference in
London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of 20
years or more, Steneri said.  
 MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire the same banks,
including CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc, to
arrange the sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to
be named as the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25
billion from a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia
is rated A3 by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  
 INDOSAT PALAPA CO., a unit of Indonesia’s second-largest
phone operator, delayed a planned dollar bond sale until market
conditions improve, a person familiar with the matter said May
26. Indosat began meetings with investors in Asia, the U.S. and
Europe on May 12 to gauge demand for a global bond sale,
according to a company statement sent to the Indonesian stock
exchange that day. Moody’s assigned a provisional Ba1 rating to
the notes and S&P rated them BB, one step lower.  
 SABIC CAPITAL , a unit of Saudi Basic Industries Corp., will
sell bonds when market conditions and rates are favorable, its
vice president for corporate finance  Mutlaq al-Morished  told al-
Arabiya television in Dubai on June 16. Sabic delayed a bond
sale because of unfavorable spreads, al-Morished said in a May
26 telephone interview. Sabic Capital had hired HSBC Holdings
Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
to manage a benchmark-sized offering.  
 GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government is considering a “no-
deal roadshow” as early as the fourth quarter to gauge
international investors’ appetite, Kwetey said in a May 26
interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its first global bond in 2007,
raising $750 million to help fund the construction of roads and
power plants.  
 ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  
 EURASIAN NATURAL RESOURCES CORP. , a London-based iron ore
and alumina producer with operations in China and Russia, said
it delayed its first dollar bond sale. The company is
“postponing meetings with investors regarding a potential bond
issuance under its Euro Medium Term Note program until further
notice,” Charlotte Kirkham, a spokeswoman for ENRC, said in an
e-mail. The company had hired Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan
Stanley to manage the sale, according to a person familiar with
the transaction.  
 KAZAKHSTAN plans to sell between $500 million and $750
million in bonds to investors abroad in the autumn, Kazakh
Finance Minister  Bolat Zhamishev  said in a May 14 interview. The
bonds will probably be denominated in dollars and will be used
to set a benchmark for corporate borrowing, Zhamishev said.  
 QATARI DIAR REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT CO. may raise about $1.5
billion by selling global bonds backed by Qatar, according to a
person familiar with the sale plan. The developer may offer 10-
year conventional bonds and 5-year Islamic securities, said the
person who declined to be identified because details of the
transaction haven’t been completed. HSBC Holdings Plc and
Barclays Capital are among banks expected to manage the sale,
according to the person.  
 CHINA ORIENTAL GROUP CO.  plans to sell senior notes to
provide working capital and possibly to finance the purchase of
steel mills and iron ore assets in China. Deutsche Bank AG will
manage the sale with ING Groep NV, according to a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange.  
 BANK FOR INVESTMENT & DEVELOPMENT OF VIETNAM received
approval from the central bank to issue 7 trillion dong ($369
million) of notes and another 3 trillion dong of dollar-
denominated notes in 2010, according to a statement on State
Bank of Vietnam’s Web site.  
 BOLIVIA plans its first international bond sale in more
than 70 years as early as the end of 2011, Finance Minister  Luis Arce  said. He didn’t disclose the size of the offering.  
 KOREA FINANCE CORP.  hired BNP Paribas SA and Standard
Chartered Plc to help it sell dollar bonds backed by Korean
residential mortgages, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The banks will help arrange meetings with investors
in Asia, Europe and the U.S., the person said. Edaily reported
in April that the company planned to sell $100 million to $200
million of foreign-currency bonds in its first overseas debt
sale since October, without citing anyone. The state-run agency
also plans to sell $1 billion of global bonds in the U.S., the
Korean-language online newspaper said.  
 PTT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION PCL , the Thai oil explorer,
hired Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc to help it sell global bonds, according to two people
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified as the
plan is private.  
 POWER SECTOR ASSETS AND LIABILITIES MANAGEMENT CORP. of the
Philippines may sell between $750 million and $1.5 billion of
dollar-denominated bonds “anytime” to help refinance maturing
debt through next year, Vice Chairman  Jose Ibazeta  said. The
company manages the finances of state utility National Power
Corp.  
 BRISBANE AIRPORT CORP., owner of Australia’s third-busiest
airport, may sell bonds in the U.S. later this year as it
pursues new markets to help refinance debt and pay for a new
runway. The company is considering a 10- or 15-year U.S. private
placement and a five- to seven-year Australian dollar bond sale
in late 2010 or early 2011, Chief Financial Officer  Tim Rothwell 
said in a phone interview from Brisbane.  
 VIETNAM NATIONAL COAL-MINERAL INDUSTRIES GROUP, the state-
owned coal producer known as Vinacomin, plans to sell as much as
$500 million of bonds overseas this year to fund mining and
energy projects, according to Deputy Chief Executive Officer
 Nguyen Van Hai .  
 FINLAND may sell five-year bonds denominated in dollars
this year, the Finnish Treasury said in a document posted on its
Web site.  
 POLAND may sell dollar bonds if markets stabilize, Deputy
Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  said. The European Union
member earlier planned to sell $1 billion in five-year debt
denominated in the U.S. currency as early as April.  
 MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds this
year and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be
sold according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales this year
after Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment
banks are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5
to 10 years, Bayartsogt said in a Feb. 9 interview. The
securities may yield between 8 percent to 11 percent, he said.  
 For Related News and Information:
U.S. New issue news: TNI US NEWBON <GO>
U.S. corporate finance news: TNI COR US <GO>
Top bond news: TOP BON <GO>
League tables: LEAG <GO>
List of planned bond issues: PREL <GO>
New-issue monitor: NIM <GO>  
          
          


  


        