-- Consumer Credit in U.S. Fell $9.1 Billion in May, Fed Says
-- Vincent Del Giudice
-- 2010-07-08T20:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/consumer-credit-in-u-s-declined-by-more-than-forecast-9-1-billion-in-may.html

          
          
             Consumer borrowing  in the U.S.
dropped in May more than forecast, a sign Americans are less
willing to take on debt without an improvement in the labor
market.  
 The $9.1 billion decrease followed a revised $14.9 billion
slump in April that was initially estimated as a $1 billion
increase, the Federal Reserve reported today in Washington.
Economists projected a $2.3 billion drop in the May measure of
credit card debt and non-revolving loans, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of 34 economists.  
 Borrowing that’s increased twice since the end of 2008
shows consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, will be restrained as Americans pay down debt.
Banks also continue to restrict lending following the collapse
of the housing market, Fed officials said after their policy
meeting last month.  
 “The trend in consumer deleveraging is clear as credit has
declined 11 of the last 13 months,”  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S.
economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York, said in
a note to clients. “Credit card debt continues to be paid down
at a heady pace.”  
 Economists’  projections  in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
a decrease of $5.2 billion to an increase of $2 billion in May.
The central bank’s report doesn’t cover borrowing secured by
real estate, such as home equity loans.  
 Stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index having
its first three-day rally since April. The S&P 500 advanced 0.9
percent to 1,070.25 as of 4 p.m. in New York. The 10-year
Treasury note declined, pushing up the yield 5 basis points to
3.03 percent.  
 Jobless Claims  
 A separate report today showed jobless claims dropped more
than forecast last week, while staying at a level that indicates
unemployment will be slow to decline. Initial claims for
benefits decreased by 21,000 to 460,000, the Labor Department
said.  
 Revolving debt , which includes credit cards, dropped by
$7.3 billion in May, according to the Fed’s statistics. The last
time revolving credit increased was September 2008.  
 Non-revolving debt , including loans for cars and mobile
homes, fell by $1.8 billion in May even as auto sales picked up.  
 Auto purchases in the U.S. increased in May to an 11.64
million annual rate from an 11.21 million pace a month earlier,
according to industry statistics. General Motors Co. and  Ford
Motor Co.  posted sales increases in May that topped analysts’
estimates as higher consumer confidence and inexpensive gasoline
spurred customers to buy more sport utility vehicles.  
 GM and Ford  
 GM’s deliveries rose 17 percent from a year earlier, more
than the median forecast for a 5.9 percent increase, according
to five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Ford sales rose 22
percent.  
 Households are exercising restraint following the
recession. Incomes grew faster than spending in May and the
savings rate increased to the highest level in eight months,
according to Commerce Department data released June 28.  
 “The environment remains challenging for consumers,”
 Howard R. Levine , chairman and chief executive officer of Family
Dollar Stores Inc., a national discount store chain based in
Matthews, North Carolina, said in a statement yesterday.  
 Americans are making progress getting their balance sheets
in better order. Delinquencies declined on credit cards and
home-equity loans in the first quarter of the year for the first
time since 2008, according to statistics from the American
Bankers Association.  
 Past-Due Cards  
 Past-due credit-card payments fell to 3.88 percent in the
first quarter from 4.39 percent in the final three months of
2009, the Washington-based trade group said yesterday.  
 Consumer spending grew at a 3 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, up from a 1.6 percent pace in the previous three
months and the biggest gain since 2007. The gain was accompanied
by a pickup in the labor market.  
 Employment at companies rose 83,000 last month. This year,
private hiring has averaged about 100,000 a month. The jobless
rate dropped to 9.5 percent in June from 9.7 percent as the
labor force shrank.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Del Giudice  in Washington 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Peter Cecchini, chief strategist at BGC Financial LP, talks about the U.S. economy and consumer credit.
     Cecchini speaks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
