-- Corn Rises to Highest Price Since January, Soybeans Gain on Supply Concern
-- Jeff Wilson
-- 2010-07-08T20:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/corn-rises-to-highest-price-since-january-soybeans-gain-on-supply-concern.html

          
          
             Corn rose to the highest price since
January and soybeans jumped to a one-month high on speculation
that adverse weather will reduce yields in China and Russia,
boosting demand for supplies from the U.S.  
 China’s grain production this year may decline as much as 2
percent because of flooding in southern areas, the China Daily
said today. Russia’s grain harvest may fall 18 percent from a
year earlier because of drought and high temperatures, SovEcon
said July 7. U.S. exporters sold 116,000 metric tons of soybeans
for delivery before Aug. 31 to China, the Department of
Agriculture said.  
 “The global crops are declining and that will boost demand
for U.S. grain,” said  Mark Schultz , the chief analyst for
Northstar Commodity Investment Co. in Minneapolis. “The U.S.
crops are also variable, increasing the concern from end-
users.”  
 Corn futures for December delivery rose 7 cents, or 1.8
percent, to $3.9625 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Earlier, the price reached $3.975, the highest level for the
most-active contract since Jan. 12.  
 Last week, corn jumped 6.7 percent after the government
said U.S. farmers planted less than they intended this year.  
 Soybean futures for November delivery climbed 13.5 cents,
or 1.4 percent, to $9.46 a bushel after touching $9.5625, the
highest level since June 4. Yesterday, the price surged 3.6
percent, the most since Oct. 12.  
 Crop Conditions  
 As of July 4, about 71 percent of the U.S. corn crop was in
good or excellent  condition , down from 73 percent a week
earlier. Parts of the Midwest got more than three times the
normal amount of rain in the past 30 days, the USDA said this
week.  
 An estimated 67 percent of  soybeans  had the best ratings,
down from 75 percent three weeks earlier.  
 Prices also rose after National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration said the majority of forecast models expected a
La Nina, or cooling of central Pacific Ocean equatorial waters,
to form by August, increasing the risk of a hot, dry finish to
the U.S. growing season, said  Peter Meyer , an agricultural
products specialist for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York.  
 Excessive rain in the past month stunted root development,
which means reduced yields if hot and dry weather develops
during the next seven weeks, Meyer said.  
 “There’s a problem from too much rain,” which flooded
parts of fields in Iowa and Illinois, the two biggest producers
of the crops, Meyer said. “If we end up with a strong La Nina,
that would cut yields.”  
 Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, followed by soybeans at $31.8 billion, government figures
show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        