-- Corporate Bond Risk Falls in Europe as IMF Fuels Economic Recovery Bets
-- Abigail Moses
-- 2010-07-08T15:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/corporate-bond-risk-declines-in-europe-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html

          
          
             The cost of insuring against losses
on European corporate bonds fell to the lowest in two weeks
after the International Monetary Fund raised global growth
forecasts, fueling optimism the economic recovery is on track.  
 The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 27
basis points to 545, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The
Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with investment-
grade ratings fell 5.75 basis points to 117.5.  
 Faster expansions in Brazil, China and India are helping to
protect the global economic recovery as a sovereign-debt crisis
weighs on Europe, the IMF said. Canada and the U.S. are leading
advanced economies out of recession, the fund said, after
American retail sales climbed at the fastest pace in four years.  
 “It’s important for the market to be confident that we
won’t go back to a weak growth scenario and that if we see an
economic slowdown it’ll be relatively mild,” said  Maureen Schuller , a strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “The IMF
forecast and retail sales are supportive signals.”  
 The cost of protecting bank bonds from default fell even as
proposed stress tests for European lenders drew criticism from
analysts for underestimating potential losses. The Markit iTraxx
Financial Index of swaps on the senior debt of 25 banks and
insurers fell 11.5 basis points to 138.5, the lowest since May
13, and the subordinated index was down 17 at 211.  
 ‘Soft Test’  
 “The test details suggest a very soft test with
assumptions not very ‘stressy,’”  Stefan Kolek , a strategist at
UniCredit SpA in Munich, wrote in a note to investors. This
undermines “the credibility of the test and does not suggest a
lasting improvement of sentiment,” he wrote.  
 Swaps on the European government debt also fell. Contracts
on Greece dropped 10 basis points to 884, Portugal declined 12.5
to 279 and Spain fell 14 to 231, CMA DataVision prices show.
Debt swaps tied to BP Plc’s bonds fell 35 basis points to 391,
the lowest level in a month.  
 A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros ($12.6 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A decline signals
deterioration in perceptions of credit quality.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        