-- Credit Suisse, Standard Bank Said in Talks to End South African Brokerage
-- Ambereen Choudhury
-- 2010-07-08T16:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/credit-suisse-standard-bank-said-to-end-brokerage-venture-in-south-africa.html

          
          
             Credit Suisse Group AG  is in talks to
end its brokerage joint venture with  Standard Bank Group Ltd. 
and plans to hire its own staff in South Africa, said two people
with knowledge of the discussions.  
 Credit Suisse and Standard Bank are seeking to terminate a
five-year agreement, due to expire in mid-2011, a year early,
the people said, declining to be identified because the talks
are private. The Swiss lender wants to increase its presence in
Africa’s largest economy to also include investment banking
while expanding its existing private bank, one person said.  
 In July 2006, Switzerland’s second-largest bank started a
brokerage, called  Credit Suisse Standard Securities , with
Johannesburg-based Standard Bank. Africa’s biggest bank combined
its Andisa Securities business with the technology, client base
and global research of Zurich-based Credit Suisse to win a
bigger slice of South African stock  trading , which has averaged
12 billion rand ($1.6 billion) a day over the past six months.  
 “It was an agreement that had a time period attached to
it,”  Jacko Maree , chief executive officer of Standard Bank,
said in an interview in Johannesburg on July 6. It “makes
sense” for Credit Suisse to want to open its own securities
business in South Africa, Maree said in Cape Town on June 27,
declining to comment further.  
 Marc van der Spuy , chairman of the joint venture company,
did not immediately respond to a phone message or an e-mail
seeking comment while Credit Suisse Standard Securities CEO  Luke Middlewick  declined to comment.  Erik Larsen , a spokesman for
Standard Bank, declined to comment.  
 ‘Just Another Name’  
 Credit Suisse’s  expansion  in the South African market will
create “just another name in an over-broked market,” said
 Neville Chester , a banking analyst and portfolio manager who
helps oversee the equivalent of about $22 billion at Cape Town-
based  Coronation Fund Managers Ltd . Many of the world’s major
banks operate brokerages in South Africa, including Citigroup
Inc.,  Deutsche Bank AG , HSBC Holdings Plc,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
and Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch.  
 Credit Suisse posted record earnings at its investment bank
last year, fueled by trading revenue that benefited from low
interest rates and recovering markets. The company, which dodged
the worst of the financial crisis and declined state support, is
among international banks, such as  Citigroup  and Standard
Chartered Plc, expanding in emerging markets to boost profit.  
 Faster Growth  
 The  International Monetary Fund  today raised its 2010
growth forecast for sub-Saharan Africa as global trade
rebounded. The region’s economy will expand 5 percent, compared
with an April forecast of 4.7 percent, the Washington-based
lender said in its World Economic Outlook update on its website.  
 Renaissance Capital Group , the parent company of the
Russian brokerage half-owned by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ,
may do “the majority” of its business in Africa within two
years, Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Jennings  has said. RenCap
in May agreed to pay 207 million rand for the securities unit of
Johannesburg-based Barnard Jacobs Mellet Holdings Ltd.  
 Credit Suisse  rose  2.9 percent to 44.13 Swiss francs in
Zurich while Standard Bank  gained  0.7 percent to 110 rand in
Johannesburg trading.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net 
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        