-- Oil Futures Advance as U.S. Jobless Claims Slow, Crude Stockpiles Decline
-- Mark Shenk
-- 2010-07-08T19:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/crude-oil-futures-rise-as-u-s-jobless-claims-decrease-stockpiles-tumble.html

          
          
             Crude oil rose to a one-week high as
U.S. inventories tumbled after Hurricane Alex disrupted output
and deliveries in the Gulf of Mexico. Jobless claims also fell.  
 Inventories  dropped 4.96 million barrels to 358.2 million,
the biggest decline since September, the Energy Department said.
Stockpiles were forecast to decrease by 2 million barrels. Fuel
demand climbed to a five-week high. The Labor Department
reported that the number of people applying for jobless benefits
slipped a greater-than-forecast 21,000 in the week ended July 3.  
 “A big drop in inventories and rising demand are a bullish
combination,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy
& Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts.  
 Crude oil for August delivery rose $1.37, or 1.9 percent,
to $75.44 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the
highest settlement since June 30. Futures are up 25 percent from
a year ago.  
 Brent crude for August delivery climbed $1.20, or 1.6
percent, to settle at $74.71 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  
 The next technical target for the August contract in New
York is resistance at $75.90 to $76, said  Veronique Lashinski , a
senior research analyst for Newedge USA LLC in Chicago. If that
gives in, the next target will be $76.90, she said.  
 A close below $73.88 would point to a short-term corrective
decline, with futures heading toward $72, Lashinski said.  
 Alex, the earliest hurricane of the Atlantic season since
1995, made landfall in northeastern Mexico June 30. Almost
421,000 barrels of daily oil output, or 26 percent of Gulf of
Mexico production, was shut-in on the day the storm hit shore.  
 Import Disruption  
 “The hurricane disrupted imports and offshore
production,” said  Rick Mueller , director of oil markets at
Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield, Massachusetts.
“We’ll probably see a bump in supply when next week’s report
comes out.”  
 Total U.S. fuel  consumption  increased 3.2 percent to 19.6
million barrels a day, the highest level since the week ended
May 28, the Energy Department said today in a weekly report.  
 Gasoline inventories  rose 1.32 million barrels to 219.4
million in the week ended July 2, the report showed. Stockpiles
were estimated to climb by 100,000 barrels, according to the
median of 15 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 “The gasoline stock increase in the week ended July 2 left
us in good shape, given that the driving season has only two
months to go,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi
Futures Perspective in New York.  
 Refineries operated at 89.8 percent of capacity last week,
up 1.4 percentage points from the prior week. The industry
operated at the  highest rate  January 2008.  
 Crack Spread  
 “The spread has been strong, encouraging refiners to
increase output and increase profits,” Mueller said. “If you
continue to see fuel stockpiles rise, profits will dip and with
it refinery utilization rates.”  
 The increase in fuel supplies helped narrow the  margin , or
crack spread, for processing three barrels of oil into two of
gasoline and one of heating oil by 0.4 percent to $10.178 a
barrel, based on New York futures prices.  
 The number of Americans applying for jobless benefits last
week fell to 454,000, a level that indicates improvement in the
labor market is taking time to develop. Economists had forecast
jobless applications would decline to 460,000 from an initially
reported 472,000 for the prior week, according to the median of
36 projections in a Bloomberg survey.  
 “Any time the jobless number dips that much, it is going
to reinforce the outlook for the economy,” said  Carl Larry ,
president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in Houston.  
 IMF Forecast  
 The International Monetary Fund raised its forecast for
global growth this year, reflecting a stronger-than-expected
first half. The world economy will expand 4.6 percent in 2010,
the biggest gain since 2007, compared with an April projection
of 4.2 percent, the Washington-based organization said in
revisions yesterday to its World Economic Outlook.  
 Canada and the U.S. are leading advanced economies out of
the worst recession since World War II, trailed by euro-area
countries that need additional measures to boost confidence in
their banks, the IMF said. Faster expansions in Brazil, China
and India are helping to protect the global recovery as a
sovereign-debt crisis weighs on Europe, the IMF said.  
 German industrial production climbed in May as the global
recovery fueled demand for goods from Europe’s largest economy.
Production rose 2.6 percent from April, when it gained a revised
1.2 percent, the Economy Ministry said. Economists had forecast
a 0.9 percent gain, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Better Demand  
 “The IMF increased the economic growth forecast, and that
means better demand for oil, and the German economic numbers
were very strong today,” said  James Cordier , portfolio manager
at OptionSellers.com in Tampa, Florida. “The global growth
engine is chugging along. That is the main catalyst for oil
going up today.”  
 Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 489,397
contracts as of 3:17 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 503,021
contracts yesterday, 36 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.28 million contracts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        