-- Crude Rises to One-Week High as Supplies Drop, IMF Boosts Growth Forecast
-- Grant Smith
-- 2010-07-08T12:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/crude-oil-rises-to-one-week-high-as-u-s-retail-sales-gain-supplies-drop.html

          
          
             Crude oil climbed to the highest
price in a week as the IMF bolstered its economic outlook and a
decline in U.S. crude inventories added to signs of recovery.  
 U.S. crude stockpiles fell 2 percent to 351.8 million
barrels last week, the biggest reduction since September, the
American Petroleum Institute reported. The Energy Department
will release its own weekly data today. The International
Monetary Fund raised its forecast for global growth this year,
reflecting a stronger-than-expected first half.  
 “The path is clearly towards a tightening market,” said
Andy Sommer, senior analyst at EGL AG in Dietikon, Switzerland.
“Demand is still pretty strong and will continue to grow, so
inventories should creep lower over the next weeks and months.”  
 Crude for August delivery rose as much as $1.03, or 1.4
percent, to $75.10 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. It was at $74.79 at 11:12 p.m. London
time. Brent crude for August delivery climbed 68 cents to $74.19
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  
 Yesterday, the Nymex contract rose 2.9 percent to $74.07,
the highest settlement in a week, rallying from a four-week low
after the International Council of Shopping Centers estimated
U.S.  retail sales  expanded at the fastest pace in four years.
Futures in New York are down 6.1 percent so far this year.  
 “The retail sales numbers in the U.S., after a whole host
of disappointing data recently, provided a boost to sentiment,”
said  Toby Hassall , a commodity analyst at CWA Global Markets Pty
in Sydney. “Considering the falls we’ve had in equity markets
and other asset markets, there are those looking at these crude
price declines and viewing them as excessive.”  
 Oil Supplies  
 Retail sales probably expanded at an average monthly rate
of 4 percent in the five months to June, the New York-based ICSC
said before a report today. Retailers may have bucked last
month’s drop in consumer confidence that threatened to temper
the rebound, it said.  
 The world economy will expand 4.6 percent in 2010, the
biggest gain since 2007, compared with an April projection of
4.2 percent, the Washington-based IMF said in revisions
yesterday to its World Economic Outlook  
 Commercially held U.S. crude stockpiles fell for a second
week to their lowest level since March, the industry-funded API
said. The Energy Department may report a 2 million-barrel
decline today, based on the  median estimate  from 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Holiday Gasoline Demand  
 U.S. gasoline demand jumped to a five-week high as drivers
filled their tanks for the July 4 holiday weekend, according to
MasterCard Inc. Motorists bought an average 9.65 million barrels
a day in the week ended July 2, the second-largest payments
network company said yesterday in its SpendingPulse report.  
 Gasoline  inventories increased 100,000 barrels last week
from 218.1 million, according to the median analyst estimate
before the Energy Department’s report at 11 a.m. in Washington.,
 Distillate fuel  stockpiles, including heating oil and diesel,
probably gained 1.6 million barrels from 159.4 million.  
 The Energy Department yesterday raised its outlook for
global oil demand this year to 85.82 million barrels a day from
85.51 million in June, an increase of 1.9 percent from 2009. In
its monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook, the department also
forecast an average oil price of $78.69 a barrel from $61.66
last year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        