-- Dar, Blom U.K. Case Dismissal Removes Hurdle for Market: Islamic Finance
-- Dana El Baltaji
-- 2010-07-08T01:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/dar-blom-u-k-case-dismissal-removes-hurdle-for-market-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             The Islamic finance industry overcame
a hurdle when a London court threw out an appeal in a case that
Moody’s Investors Service said could have undermined the market.  
 Investment Dar Co. , the Kuwait-based company that owns half
of luxury carmaker Aston Martin Lagonda Ltd., won’t be able to
challenge a contract with BLOM Development Bank SAL of Lebanon,
because U.K. courts required it to pay more than $10 million to
proceed with the appeal,  court documents  show. The company
didn’t meet the May 25 deadline and an out of court settlement
may be sought, BLOM lawyer John Bramhall, said last month in an
interview.  
 While the case got little attention in London, it is being
followed by the Islamic finance industry, which manages $1
trillion in assets, to see if local courts would rule on
contracts governed by religious law. The lack of a final
decision led regulators in the developing market for Shariah-
compliant debt to seek provisions in loan contracts to prevent
similar disputes.  
 Every development in Islamic finance litigation “is going
to be closely scrutinized by markets,”  Rafael Martinez Dalmau ,
director of Islamic investments at BNP Paribas Investment, said
in a June 30 interview from Singapore. “A successful resolution
should set new parameters allowing investors to participate in
this market with a greater degree of confidence.”  
 Debt Restructuring  
 Bramhall, head of commercial litigation at Davies Arnold
Cooper LLP in London, declined to give an update on his June 16
statement when contacted yesterday. Investment Dar won’t be able
to comment on the case, Latham & Watkins LLP, which represents
the company, said in an e-mail statement on June 15. The company
didn’t respond to a request yesterday.  
 Investment Dar, which had $3.5 billion of liabilities
outstanding at the end of September 2008, is restructuring debt.
The Kuwaiti company contradicted its own scholars’ assessment
and argued the financing from BLOM breached the religion’s
Shariah principles because Dar “was taking deposits at
interest,” according to a Dec. 11 court document.  
 Investment Dar’s Shariah Supervisory Board issued a
statement on June 8 barring the Kuwaiti company from using
arguments based on Islamic law and advised it to drop the
lawsuit.  
 “The scholars have done the right thing here,”  Harris Irfan , head of Islamic products at Barclays Capital in Dubai,
said in a June 17 interview. “They’ve actually helped to
restore order of confidence back in the system. There was a time
that people like me were actually getting pretty nervous.”  
 Global Standards  
 Global standards are still developing the industry whose
assets may almost triple to $2.8 trillion by 2015, according to
the Kuala Lumpur-based  Islamic Financial Services Board.  Moody’s
said the case prompted the rating company to evaluate additional
risks when assessing such transactions.  
 “The lack of a clean resolution will leave some
uncertainty for market participants regarding the risks of
Shariah-compliant deals,”  Khalid Howladar , a Dubai-based senior
credit analyst at Moody’s said yesterday. “This risk will have
a cost.”  
 Islamic bond defaults in Malaysia, the world’s largest
sukuk market, reached 176 million ringgit ($55 million) in the
first four months of the year, or 65 percent of the 2009 total,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Bond Performance  
 Dubai World, whose unit Nakheel PJSC is building palm-
shaped islands off Dubai’s coast, reached an agreement with its
main creditor group in May to restructure $23.5 billion of debt.  
 The average spread on Islamic bonds above the London
interbank offered rate has widened 101 basis points, or 1.01
percentage points, from an 11-month low of 328 basis points on
Oct. 20 last year, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar
Sukuk Index . The difference increased 2 basis points yesterday
to 429. Sales of Islamic debt have fallen 24 percent to $6.5
billion in 2010 from a year-earlier, Bloomberg data show.  
 Sukuk returned 6.5 percent so far this year, according to
the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index , while debt in
developing markets gained 6.1 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
 EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  
 Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June 2015 was
unchanged at 3.4 percent today, the lowest level since the bonds
were sold on May 27, according to prices from HSBC Holdings Plc.  
 Wakalah Contract  
 Investment Dar’s legal dispute revolved around a Wakalah
contract, used in about 10 percent of outstanding Islamic bonds,
in which capital is raised to acquire assets that are entrusted
to an agent, or Wakil. Holders take the risk of the underlying
projects and are entitled to profits generated from them. In
2007, BLOM signed a contract with Investment Dar to place such a
deposit. It had invested $10.77 million as of December 2008,
when the contract was renewed a third time, court documents show.  
 BLOM took Investment Dar to the High Court of Justice in
London after the Kuwaiti company missed a payment on its deposit
in January 2009, documents show. The court granted a summary
judgment, a determination made without a full trial, in the
Lebanese bank’s favor last July, ordering Investment Dar to
return the initial deposit plus profit accrued up until mid-
December 2008, said Bramhall.  
 Investment Dar was allowed to challenge the Shariah
contract as long as it agreed to pay the sum in dispute to BLOM,
the Dec. 11 court document shows.  
 A clause preventing parties questioning the validity of
Islamic contracts may need to be included in future transactions,
said Mohammad Amin, a London-based member of the  HM Treasury 
Finance Experts Group that advises the British government. Only
regional courts with Shariah expertise should hear cases
involving potential default, said  Hussain Hamed Hassan , chairman
of the Shariah Coordination Committee of the Islamic Financial
Institutions in the U.A.E.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net 
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        