-- Deepwater-Drilling Ban to Get Appeals Court Ruling Next Week `at Latest'
-- Margaret Cronin Fisk
-- 2010-07-08T21:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/deepwater-drilling-ban-to-get-appeals-court-ruling-next-week-at-latest-.html

          
          
             A federal appeals court that heard
arguments on whether to lift the Obama administration’s ban on
deep-water oil drilling will rule next week “at the latest,”
U.S. Circuit Judge  Eugene Davis  said today at a hearing.  
 The government is seeking to delay an order by U.S.
District Judge  Martin Feldman  that scrapped the six-month
drilling moratorium, imposed May 27 after the explosion and
sinking of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig in April.  
 Feldman’s June 22 ruling came in a lawsuit against U.S.
regulators by oil service companies claiming the suspension
would cause them irreparable economic harm. Feldman rejected the
ban as too broad. The U.S. said the moratorium was necessary to
protect public safety and avoid the risk of another oil spill.  
 “You haven’t looked at the individual case at all,”
Circuit Judge  Jerry Smith  told the U.S. at today’s hearing.
“The secretary just issued a blanket moratorium.”  
 “The individual case is we have an oil spill we haven’t
contained,” replied Michael Gray, a Justice Department
attorney. “ Our resources are taxed to the max. It makes
perfect sense.”  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and more than a dozen other
offshore service and supply companies sued U.S. regulators,
including Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar , last month,
seeking to block the moratorium.  
 They were joined by Louisiana’s Governor  Bobby Jindal  and
Attorney General  Buddy Caldwell , who said the drilling
suspension is turning an “environmental disaster into an
economic catastrophe.”  
 Catastrophe ‘Trifecta’  
 The combination of the hurricanes, the economic recession
and the Deepwater Horizon have created a “trifecta of economic
catastrophe that has left Louisiana hanging on by a thread,”
Henry Dart, counsel for Jindal, told the judges today. “The
drilling moratorium would be the coupe de grace.”  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The appeal case is 10-30585, 5th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        