-- Depression Fear Mongers Obscure the True Concerns: Amity Shlaes
-- Amity Shlaes
-- 2010-07-08T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/depression-fear-mongers-obscure-the-true-concerns-amity-shlaes.html

          
          
             This year is supposed to be like
1932. That’s what you would believe after reading commentators
who compare current patterns in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
to those at the end of  Herbert Hoover ’s presidency.  
 To focus on these stock patterns is to be like weather
forecasters who talk about the heat index or wind chill. They
are gilding the statistical lily. The ungilded reality: today
the Dow is down about 30 percent from its 2007 high, nowhere
near its decline of 89 percent between September 1929 and July
1932. Today,  joblessness  in the U.S. is a bit less than 10
percent; in 1932 it was 25 percent.  
 While these differences set today’s slump apart from the
Great Depression, there are other issues that may be holding
back a recovery.  
 Instability in the international currency arrangement is
the first one. Today doubt that the euro will survive is
affecting the dollar and the stock market. The issue is whether
Europe will make the fiscal repairs necessary to preclude an
otherwise inevitable collapse of the European currency. It isn’t
clear whether or when the euro can be restructured. This, as
we’ve seen recently, can hurt U.S. stocks.  
 In the early 1930s an unsustainable monetary construct
likewise jeopardized recovery. In that instance, the teetering
house wasn’t the euro but the international gold standard.
Depositors concerned that the whole arrangement would break
apart were pulling gold out of U.K. banks at a rate the country
couldn’t afford. When the U.K. did go off gold in September
1931, the investor panic migrated to the U.S., where depositors
also started withdrawing gold. Another wave of bank failures
ensued.  
 Tariff Legacy  
 The second factor is trade. Today most of us doze off when
the topic comes up, whether the issue is a bilateral free-trade
agreement with a Latin American country or the lack of progress
in the Doha Round of trade talks.  
 This lack of concern resembles many Americans’ disregard
for the effects of the  Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act , signed into law
by Hoover in June 1930. Republicans told themselves that the
tariff couldn’t hurt much since trade was a small part of the
U.S. economy at that point.  
 But that view overlooked the signal that markets were
sending. Long ago  Jude Wanniski  noticed that the progress of the
Smoot-Hawley legislation tracked declines in the stock market.
More recently  Scott Sumner , a professor of economics at Bentley
University in Waltham, Massachusetts, has argued that the tariff
reduced investment all over the world, and therefore produced
deflation.  
 New Tax Trends  
 The third factor is taxes, perhaps the most important 1932
parallel. Today, U.S. taxes are set to march higher. From the
income tax to the dividend tax, all will rise in the next year
or so. Also a challenge, albeit less discussed, are the
increases in state and municipal taxes in the name of reducing
shortfalls in public coffers. This change represents a reversal
from the tax-lowering trend of the first part of the decade.  
 In 1932, a similar reversal occurred. Then-Treasury
Secretary  Andrew Mellon  presided over an enormous tax increase.
The top rate on personal income taxes rose to 63 percent from 25
percent. Add in new levies on telegraph and telephone use and,
in an obscenely bad error for a recession, a tax on checks. In
addition, corporate taxes moved up, as did levies on tobacco.
Mellon, who had earlier personally crafted a series of rate
cuts, consoled himself about this switch by calling it a
temporary emergency measure. The revenue was a disappointment
and the economy didn’t recover.  
 Rising Wages  
 Fourth is the subtle issue of employee pay. Today President
 Barack Obama  is applying upward pressure on compensation where
he can -- in federal contracts, for example. The president is
being egged on by various academics. This week  Christopher Edley , dean of the University of California-Berkeley’s Boalt
Hall School of Law, published an  article  in the Los Angeles
Times titled “The Economic Power of Obama’s Pen,” urging the
president to sign an executive order encouraging federal
contractors to pay the so-called living wage, government code
for wages higher than it might otherwise have paid.  
 Hoover likewise advocated keeping wages high during periods
of economic decline. Even while still Commerce secretary, Hoover
argued that worker spending was key to fostering recovery.
Shortly after the 1929 crash, the new president hauled corporate
heads to Washington and exhorted them to keep wages as high as
they could.  Henry Ford  served as cheerleader for this policy,
telling the press as he exited the White House, “Wages must not
come down.” In short, Hoover and Ford were Keynesians before
 John Maynard Keynes .  
 Disregarding Precedents  
 In addition, Hoover signed the  Davis-Bacon Act , which was
passed in 1931 and requires that federal contractors pay the
“prevailing wage,” government-speak for relatively high wages.
As labor scholars  Lowell Gallaway ,  Lee Ohanian  and  Harold Cole 
have shown, the wage pressure increased unemployment. Rather
than disobey Washington, not to mention Ford, companies hired
fewer people, or postponed rehiring.  
 The takeaway from 1932? Resetting the euro’s criteria for
existence and member countries’ obligations when it comes to
bailing out one another should happen sooner rather than later.
Democrats and the president should ignore unions and cut trade
deals with Latin America.  John F. Kennedy , a Democrat,
supported tax cuts. Obama can too, or at least block rate
increases. The president might also want to suppress his lawyer-
Keynesian reflexes and reconsider policy when it comes to wages.
But the 1932 crisis talk actually impedes such consideration.  
 ( Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        