-- Disney `Millionaire', Marsh, First Republic, HSBC, Carlyle in Court News
-- Ellen Rosen
-- 2010-07-08T12:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/disney-millionaire-marsh-first-republic-hsbc-carlyle-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Walt Disney Co.  was found liable for
not paying the U.K. creators of “Who Wants to Be a
Millionaire” their share of profits from the quiz show
broadcast on Disney’s ABC network.  
 A federal court jury in Riverside, California, yesterday
awarded $269.4 million in damages to Celador International Ltd.
The jurors agreed that Disney’s Buena Vista Television and ABC
breached an agreement that entitled Celador to 50 percent of the
profits from the show, which first aired in the U.S. in 1999 and
helped lift the network to first place from third in audience
ratings.  
 “We believe this verdict is fundamentally wrong and will
aggressively seek to have it reversed,” Disney said in an e-
mailed statement.  
 Closely held Celador sued  Disney  in 2004, claiming Buena
Vista and ABC “through a complex web of self-dealing
transactions” allowed ABC to keep the advertising revenue and
pay Buena Vista only a licensing fee equal to the cost of
producing the show. That kept Buena Vista from earning a profit
from “Millionaire” that it would have had to share, Celador
said.  
 Disney, based in Burbank, California, argued that the
creators, who received a flat producers’ fee for each episode,
knew that the network run of “Millionaire” wouldn’t generate a
profit. There wasn’t anything unusual or secret about the way
Buena Vista and ABC, which took all the financial risks, divided
the rights, said Disney lawyer Martin Katz during the trial.  
 The case is Celador International Ltd. v. Walt Disney Co.
04-03541, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Riverside.)  
 For more, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Two Former Marsh Executives’ Convictions Tossed in Bid-Rig Case  
 A New York judge threw out the criminal convictions against
two former  Marsh & McLennan Cos.  executives whom he found guilty
of restraint of trade in 2008.  
 State Supreme Court Justice James Yates in Manhattan tossed
the convictions against William Gilman and Edward McNenney,
former managing directors at Marsh, in a July 2 written
decision. The pair were accused of fixing prices to steer
business to insurers that paid Marsh hidden fees from November
1998 to September 2004.  
 The decision was the latest loss for the New York Attorney
General’s office in its six-year probe of anti-competitive sales
practices in the insurance industry. The case, begun under
former state Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, was tried under his
successor, Andrew Cuomo.  
 Failures by prosecutors, including “newly discovered
contradictory evidence, undermines the court’s confidence in the
verdict,” Yates wrote in his decision.  
 Yates found the two men guilty in February 2008 of a single
count of restraint of trade under New York’s antitrust statutes
after a 10-month trial.  
 “We are reviewing the decision and contemplating an
appeal,” Richard Bamberger, a spokesman for Cuomo, said in an
e-mailed statement.  
 The attorney general’s office, following a 2004 probe,
alleged that McNenney, Gilman and six other Marsh Global Broking
Inc. brokers took part in a conspiracy to fraudulently obtain
millions of dollars for Marsh and its accomplice companies by
rigging the market for excess casualty insurance, according to a
redacted copy of the 25-page decision.  
 Gilman, formerly Marsh’s executive marketing director and
managing director, and McNenney, the former global placement
director and managing director, worked in the Excess Casualty
Unit of Marsh Global Broking, a Marsh Inc. unit.  
 In January, Yates allowed former Marsh employees Robert
Stearns and Kathryn Winter and former Zurich Financial Services
AG employee James Spiegel to withdraw their guilty pleas to
felony charges of participating in a scheme to defraud. The
judge agreed to reduce the charges to misdemeanors and said he
would dismiss the charges if the three abided by plea
agreements. Yates also dismissed charges against six people who
previously pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges related to
alleged bid-rigging.  
 The case is People of the State of New York v. Doherty,
04800-2005, New York State Supreme Court, County of New York
(Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Stanford Professor Stung by Fund Wins $2.2 Million From Bank  
 A First Republic Bank unit was ordered to pay a retired
 Stanford University  professor and his wife $2.18 million after
arbitrators found the firm gave them only a “fleeting and
slapdash” explanation of a municipal bond fund that imploded
during the credit crisis in 2008.  
 Eight months after Elliott and Rhoda Levinthal entrusted $3
million to a leveraged investment vehicle called TW Tax
Advantaged Fund LLC, it collapsed, an  American Arbitration
Association  panel wrote in a July 2 ruling. Evidence shows
workers at First Republic didn’t try to fully grasp risks in the
fund they designed, the panel found. The firm also inadequately
trained a saleswoman who dealt with the Levinthals, and didn’t
ensure they understood the investment.  
 The education offered to the Levinthals “was fleeting and
slapdash,” arbitrators wrote. “An investment in a highly
complex and concededly risky product like the fund, sold in this
fashion, is by definition unsuitable” for someone with their
experience and objectives.  
 Greg Berardi, a spokesman for the San Francisco-based
company, declined to comment.  Bank of America Corp.  acquired
First Republic Bank while buying Merrill Lynch & Co. last year,
and sold it last week to an investor group that included founder
James H. Herbert II.  
 Elliott Levinthal, 88, is a professor emeritus of
mechanical engineering at Stanford. He and his wife endowed
Levinthal Hall, a lecture hall at the  Stanford Humanities
Center .  
 The panel ordered First Republic Securities to pay the
couple and their trust $2.1 million in compensatory damages,
plus $78,153 in fees and expenses.  
 About 35 retail mutual funds marketed as leveraged
municipal arbitrage strategies have failed in recent years, said
Craig McCann of the Securities and Litigation Consulting Group
Inc., a Virginia consulting firm that testified for the
Levinthals in the arbitration. Brokerage firms sold the funds as
“higher-yielding alternatives to conventional municipal bond
portfolios with little, if any risk,” he said in a 2009 report.  
 Skilled Healthcare Falls After $671 Million Verdict  
 Skilled Healthcare Group Inc.  plunged the most since its
initial public offering in New York trading after a California
jury returned a $671 million jury verdict against the nursing-
home operator.  
 Skilled Healthcare  dropped  $4.70, or 76 percent, to $1.52
yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, the largest intraday
decline since the shares went on sale in May 2007. They peaked
in August 2008 at $17.17.  
 The plaintiffs  accused  Skilled Healthcare of improperly
staffing 22 California facilities. A Humboldt County jury July 6
found the company liable for $613 million in statutory damages,
the maximum allowed by state law, and $58 million for
restitution. Skilled Healthcare, based in Foothill Ranch,
California, said yesterday it will appeal.  
 “We strongly disagree with the outcome of this legal
matter and we intend to vigorously challenge it,” Chief
Executive Officer Boyd Hendrickson said in a statement. The
company believes “our facilities are appropriately staffed,”
he said.  
 The verdict is the largest jury award in the U.S. this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Skilled
Healthcare said the award exceeds the policy limits of its
insurance. The jury will return later to determine punitive
damages, said the company, which posted a  net loss  of $133
million last year on revenue of $759.8 million.  
 The lawsuit was filed in 2006 on behalf of current and
former residents of 22 Skilled Healthcare operations in
California, plaintiffs’ attorney Tim Needham said. California
law requires nursing homes to maintain staff at a rate of 3.2
nursing hours per patient per day, he said.  
 The case is Lavender v. Skilled Healthcare Group, DR060264,
Superior Court, Humboldt County, California (Eureka).  
 For more, click here.  
 Gulf Drilling Ban Should Be Restored, U.S. Argues  
 A three-judge appeals panel will hear arguments from the
U.S. government today on whether a six-month moratorium on deep-
water drilling in the Gulf of Mexico should be reinstated after
a lower court judge threw out the ban.  
 The government is seeking to delay an order by U.S.
District Judge  Martin Feldman  that scrapped the six-month
drilling moratorium, imposed May 27 after the explosion and
sinking of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig in April.  
 Feldman’s June 22 ruling came in a lawsuit against U.S.
regulators by oil service companies claiming the drilling
suspension would cause them irreparable economic harm. The ban’s
potential economic impact is outweighed by the risk of another
spill, lawyers for the Interior Department argued in court
papers filed before a hearing set for this afternoon in New
Orleans.  
 “If in Interior’s judgment, drilling poses a threat of
serious or irreparable environmental harm, the public interest
in avoiding that threat would trump economic considerations in
the short term,” the government said in a July 6 filing.  
 The Interior Department asked the appeals court to stay
Feldman’s order and keep the moratorium in place long enough for
regulators to appeal.  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and more than a dozen other
offshore service and supply companies sued U.S. regulators,
including Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar , last month,
seeking to block the moratorium.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The appeal case is 10-30585, 5th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals (New Orleans).  
 New Suits  
 HSBC Sued for Fraud Over Credit-Card Protection Plan  
 Units of  HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s biggest lender by
market value, were sued by U.S. customers who said the bank’s
credit-card payment-protection service defrauds disabled,
retired and unemployed consumers.  
 While the service purports to safeguard accounts by
suspending or canceling required minimum payments when customers
become disabled or  unemployed , the circumstances that trigger
protection are “varied, complicated and always changing,”
according to complaints filed July 2 against HSBC units in
federal courts in Philadelphia and Camden, New Jersey.  
 The bank enrolls people before sending them restrictions in
small print that are “incomplete, indecipherable, misleading
and obfuscatory,” the complaints said. The plan, which costs
$1.35 per $100 of a month-ending credit-card balance, excludes
the self-employed, part-time workers, retired people and those
who are already unemployed or on disability, the customers said.  
 Kate Durham, a spokeswoman for London-based HSBC, said the
bank doesn’t comment on legal matters.  
 “The payment protection device is designed to prey on the
financially insecure and is virtually worthless because of the
numerous restrictions that are imposed,” according to the
complaints.  
 The Camden complaint, brought by Marilyn Rizera, said HSBC
Bank USA Inc. and HSBC Card Services Inc. are violating the New
Jersey Consumer Fraud Act and engaged in breach of contract. The
Philadelphia case, by Edward T. Esslinger, Gloria Glover and
Adrath Rogers, said the bank is violating the Pennsylvania
Unfair Practices and Consumer Protection Law.Both seek to
proceed as group, or class-action, lawsuits.  
 “Payment Protection is so confusing as to when coverage is
triggered, so restricted in terms of the benefits it provides to
subscribers, and processing claims is made so difficult by HSBC,
that the product is essentially worthless,” according to
Rizera’s complaint.  
 The cases are Rizera v. HSBC Bank USA Inc., 10-cv-3375,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Camden); and
Esslinger v. HSBC Bank Services, 10-cv-3213, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  
 Carlyle Group Sued by Mortgage Bond Fund Liquidator over Losses  
 Carlyle Group, the world’s second-largest private-equity
firm, was sued by liquidators of the buyout firm’s defunct
mortgage bond fund, saying executives lost $945 million in
overly risky investments.  
 Liquidators for Carlyle Capital Corp. Ltd, a Guernsey,
Channel Islands-based hedge fund that collapsed in March 2008,
contend Carlyle directors turned a blind eye to questionable
investments in residential mortgage-backed securities and failed
to stop the loss of all the company’s capital, according to a
lawsuit filed in Delaware.  
 “In the short space of eight months, the entirety of CCC’s
capital was spectacularly lost under the reckless and grossly
negligent direction, supervision, management and advice of the
defendants,” the liquidators said in the suit, filed yesterday
in Delaware Chancery Court.  
 Lenders seized Carlyle Capital’s assets after it failed to
meet more than $400 million of margin calls on mortgage-backed
collateral that had plunged in value. Carlyle Group, co-founded
by David Rubenstein, wound up the fund seven months after its
initial public offering.  
 Carlyle Group officials said they’d defend themselves in
court over the fund liquidators’ claims. The liquidators also
filed suit over the investment losses in state court in
Manhattan yesterday.  
 “We will vigorously contest all claims and are confident
we will prevail,” Chris Ullman, a company spokesman, said.  
 Carlyle Capital raised $945 million in equity funding and
sought to generate annual returns of at least 12 percent by
investing in residential mortgage backed securities and
“leveraged finance assets,” the liquidators’ lawyers said in
the suit.  
 The company’s business model called for leverage equaling
19 times capital, the complaint said, adding that the actual
leverage employed exceeded 30 times capital.  
 Mortgage securities were among the biggest contributors to
writedowns and credit losses of almost $1.8 trillion since the
start of 2007 at the world’s largest banks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The case is Carlyle Capital Corp. Ltd. v. William Elias
Conway Jr., CA5625, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 Firearms Sellers, CME Trader Sue Chicago Over Gun-Control Law  
 A Chicago Mercantile Exchange trader and three other people
have joined with the Illinois Association of Firearms Retailers
to sue the city of Chicago over a restrictive gun law passed by
its legislators last week.  
 The gun-owning plaintiffs, who include a teacher’s aide and
a married couple, claim the new ordinance restricting handgun
possession to inside the home and mandating firearms training
and permitting is unconstitutional.  
 The measure imposes “new restrictions that have the
purpose and effect of preventing plaintiffs and other law-
abiding residents of Chicago from exercising their fundamental
right to keep and carry firearms for self defense and other
lawful purposes,” the plaintiffs said in a complaint filed July
6 in the city’s federal courthouse.  
 Ruling in a case challenging Chicago’s earlier ban on
handgun possession, a divided U.S. Supreme Court on June 28 said
the constitutional right to bear arms binds states and
municipalities.  
 Chicago’s new law was passed by the city council 45-0 four
days later. Jennifer Hoyle, a spokeswoman for the city’s law
department, said in an e-mailed message that the office had just
received a copy of the complaint and is reviewing it. She said
she couldn’t otherwise immediately comment. The high court
decision “effectively overturned” the city’s handgun ban,
Mayor Richard M. Daley said in a July 2 press statement
announcing the new ordinance. He is a named defendant in the
lawsuit.  
 The retailer’s association, based in Carbondale, Illinois,
claims it has members who want to sell guns and operate firing
ranges within the city, yet can’t because of the law.  
 The plaintiffs seek a court order declaring the
restrictions unconstitutional.  
 The case is Benson v. City of Chicago, 10cv4184, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York, at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        