-- Disney Said to Discuss Sale of Miramax to Tutor, Colony Capital
-- Andy Fixmer
-- 2010-07-08T03:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/disney-said-to-discuss-sale-of-miramax-to-tutor-colony-capital.html

          
          
             Construction executive  Ronald Tutor 
is in discussions to buy  Walt Disney Co. ’s Miramax film label,
with backing from private equity firm Colony Capital, according
to two people with knowledge of the talks.  
 Negotiations are continuing almost around the clock, said
one of the people, who asked not to be named because talks are
private. No deal is assured. If consummated, an agreement may be
announced by next week, the person said.  
 Tutor approached Colony prior to the July 4 weekend seeking
financing, said one person with knowledge of the arrangement.
Los Angeles-based Colony, led by chairman and CEO  Tom Barrack ,
has investments include  Michael Jackson ’s Neverland ranch in
Santa Barbara.  
 Disney is asking for $600 million to $700 million for
Miramax, whose films include “The English Patient” and
“Shakespeare in Love,” said one of the people.  
 Tutor, chairman and chief executive of Sylmar, California-
based  Tutor Perini Corp. , didn’t return calls seeking comment. A
Disney spokeswoman didn’t respond to a request for comment.  
 Unresolved is whether  Harvey Weinstein  and  Bob Weinstein ,
who created Miramax before selling it to Disney in 1993, will
play a continuing role in the studio.  
 Disney ended talks in May to sell Miramax to the Weinsteins
and  Ron Burkle  for $625 million. The brothers, who left Miramax
in 2005, control rights to some films in the studio’s library
and are acquainted with both Tutor and Barrack, according to one
of the people.  
 Harvey Weinstein, in Sun Valley, Idaho for media banker
Allen & Co.’s annual conference, declined to discuss Miramax.  
 “I think it’s better for me to not say anything,”
Weinstein said in an interview.  
 The talks were reported earlier by the Web site
Deadline.com/Hollywood and by Reuters.  
 Leading negotiations for Colony is  Richard Nanula , who was
chief financial officer at Disney when it purchased Miramax,
said the person. Nanula is negotiating with  Kevin Mayer ,
Disney’s executive vice president for corporate strategy.  
 Disney rose $1.42 to $33.14 today on the New York Stock
Exchange and has gained 2.8 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
 Andy Fixmer  in Sun Valley, Idaho at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        