-- Dizzee Rascal Joins Party as Serpentine Reveals Summer Pavilion
-- Farah Nayeri
-- 2010-07-08T23:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/dizzee-rascal-joins-summer-party-as-serpentine-reveals-nouvel-s-pavilion.html

          
          
             Dizzee Rascal was the surprise
performer last night for a party at the  Serpentine Gallery’s 
summer pavilion, designed this year by the Pritzker Prize-
winning  Jean Nouvel .  
 “It’s the Serpentine gig: Check it out,” said the rapper,
who was born 24 years ago as Dylan Mills. For the fundraising
event in London’s Hyde Park, he wore a gray suit to bounce
around a red podium with a cordless mike, belting out hits
including “Holiday” and “Bonkers.”  
 He was watched by Serpentine Gallery Director  Julia Peyton- Jones  and Duran Duran lead singer Simon Le Bon. Artists  Tracey Emin  and  Mark Wallinger , former Rolling  Stone Bill Wyman  and
model-actress Lily Cole also attended the party. Guests sipped
champagne and watermelon cocktails, and then danced on a
mirrored floor set up for the evening inside the pavilion.  
 The gallery has grown way beyond its tearoom origins. For
the 10th straight year, it has assigned a prominent architect to
set up a pavilion on its lawn. This year, visitors can get a
recording of their heartbeats for all time, or play ping-pong
and chill in Nouvel’s blood-red structure.  
 Nouvel -- tall, Kojak-bald and dressed top-to-toe in black
-- spoke about his building design. Having watched young and 
old play in the park, he devised his pavilion as an amusement
ground.  
 There are ping-pong tables, chess boards, card games,
backgammon sets, kites and Frisbees. The space is dotted with
red stools, and hammocks, and has a red bar outfitted with
matching Smeg fridges.  
 Natural Club  
 “It has to be like a very easy and natural club,” said
the 64-year-old architect in an interview before the party.
“You can go on the blankets on the lawn, and you can sleep, or
read a book, or have a picnic: You can do what you want.”  
 Red, color of London’s buses and phone booths, brings out
the park’s lush green. “It’s to celebrate the summer,” he
said. “I wanted something with this optimistic sensation.”  
 Nouvel made a splash in 1987 with his Arab World Institute
in Paris and its facade of latticework screens that recall Arab
patios. He is working on an offshoot of the Louvre Museum on
Saadiyat Island in the Gulf. It’s going well, he said: “All the
piling is done. We will now begin the building itself, and will
complete in 2013 or 2014.”  
 When not at his Paris studio, Nouvel spends time in Saint-
Paul-de-Vence, near Nice, where he has brainstorming sessions
with like-minded friends. “For me, architecture is not always
work: It’s also my life,” he said.  
 Heartbeat Record  
 French artist Christian Boltanski, 65, has set up a little
white booth outside the Serpentine to record visitors’
heartbeats. The sound files will add to the 35,000 stored at the
Benesse Art Site Naoshima Foundation, on the island of Eijima,
near Naoshima -- a day’s journey from Tokyo by plane and boat.  
 The artist said he hoped that, years from now, someone who
lost their mother would make the “pilgrimage” to the island to
listen to her heartbeat.  
 “It’s like going on a tomb, it’s like looking at a photo
album,” said Boltanski, dressed in a hound’s tooth jacket and
jeans.  
 As an artist, Boltanski is obsessed with the transience of
human life -- how “after three generations, everybody
disappears.” Ultimately, he said, “you can preserve all the
photos of somebody, you can preserve all the clothes of
somebody, but you can’t preserve the person.”  
 In another doomed attempt at capturing life, he is having
his studio filmed 24 hours a day until he dies. Images are
beamed live to a Tasmanian cave, and can be seen after he dies.  
 Venice Challenge  
 The artist was born in Paris in September 1944, after the
end of Nazi occupation; his Jewish father spent the war years
hiding under the apartment floorboards. While some of his
earlier works carry echoes of the Holocaust, he intends his art
to have universal meaning. Boltanski’s latest challenge is the
French pavilion at next year’s  Venice Biennale .  
 I headed over to get my heartbeat recorded. An attendant in
a white tunic made me sign a paper saying that I was donating my
heartbeat as an artwork and not a medical recording. In a
notebook, she stamped the number 000014 beside my name, and then
struggled to locate my heartbeat. Finally, she captured half a
minute of pulse, handing me a CD copy of the sound that will be
forever available on the Japanese island.  
 To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The interior of the 2010 Serpentine Pavilion by French architect Jean Nouvel. The Pavilion is the 10th designed for the gallery's annual summer fundraising party. Source: Ateliers Jean Nouvel via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The interior of the 2010 Serpentine Pavilion by French architect Jean Nouvel. The Pavilion is the 10th designed for the gallery's annual summer fundraising party. Source: Ateliers Jean Nouvel via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The exterior of the 2010 Serpentine Pavilion by French architect Jean Nouvel. The Pavilion is the 10th designed for the gallery's annual summer fundraising party. Source: Ateliers Jean Nouvel via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
