-- Lead From Gold Mines May Have Poisoned More Than 2,000 Nigerians, WHO Says
-- Kristine Aquino
-- 2010-07-08T05:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/lead-from-gold-mines-may-have-poisoned-more-than-2-000-nigerians-who-says.html

          
          
             At least 2,000 lead-poisoning victims
in northern Nigeria may require treatment to remove the brain-
damaging heavy metal in what the World Health Organization
describes as an “unprecedented environmental emergency.”  
 More than 100 children in two villages in Zamfara state
have lead concentrations in their blood that are almost 12 times
higher than the level known to harm brain development in young
children, the United Nations agency said in a  statement  on its
website yesterday. The poisoning, which has been occurring since
at least March, is related to the processing of lead-rich ore
for the extraction of gold, the Geneva-based WHO said.  
 A seven-person WHO team found five other villages were also
contaminated, and noted a “high incidence” of convulsions and
death in infants. At least two-thirds of children require urgent
treatment to extract the lead. The poisoning may be related to
gold mining in the area by both a Chinese company and individual
villagers, the BBC  reported  on its Web site yesterday.  
 “To prevent further deaths and long-term neurological
impairment in affected children, it is essential that the lead
contamination is removed from villages,” WHO said.  
 Lead is more harmful to children than adults because it can
affect developing nerves and brains, the International Society
for Infectious Diseases said in a report via its ProMED-mail
program. Children exposed to high levels of lead may develop
attention problems, reduced IQ and stunted growth, the report
said.  
 Chelation Therapy  
 Medical aid group  Medecins Sans Frontieres , or Doctors
Without Borders, set up two units in Zamfara’s general hospitals
and is providing about 100 children chelation therapy to remove
toxins, according to its website.  
 For the therapy to be effective, children should be
temporarily removed from their villages until they have been
decontaminated, WHO said.  
 “Considerably more resources are needed to decontaminate
the other five villages and to identify and treat all of the
children, as well as affected adults -- in particular pregnant
women -- in these villages,” WHO said.  
 Zamfara  authorities  are working with the Blacksmith
Institute and TerraGraphics Environmental Engineering Inc. to
remove lead from soil, where tests show concentration levels are
more than 250 times greater than the limits applied in France
and the U.S., the WHO said.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Kristine Aquino  at 
 kaquino@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        