-- EADS Bids for $35 Billion Air Force Tanker Contest
-- Gopal Ratnam
-- 2010-07-08T22:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/eads-enters-bidding-contest-for-35-billion-u-s-air-force-tanker-contract.html

          
          
             European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. , the parent company of Airbus SAS, said it bid today for a
$35 billion contract to build aerial tankers for the U.S. Air
Force, ahead of tomorrow’s deadline.  
 “We have delivered an 8,000-plus page proposal to the U.S.
Air Force,”  Ralph Crosby , chairman of EADS North America, said
today at a news conference in Arlington, Virginia. “It’s a
fully compliant proposal that meets all the 372 requirements”
listed by the Air Force, he said.  
 The Air Force plans to award a contract by November for 179
airplanes to replace its 1950s-era tankers. EADS is offering its
Airbus A330 plane to compete against Boeing Co.’s 767-based
tanker. Ukraine’s Antonov Co. and its U.S. partner U.S.
Aerospace Inc. of Santa Fe Springs, California, also have said
they will bid with three different airplane models.  
 EADS, based in Munich and Paris, rose 17 cents to 16.92
euros in Paris trading. Chicago-based Boeing advanced $1.43 to
$64.73 at 4:15 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange.  
 The European company’s bid for the tanker program has drawn
opposition from U.S. lawmakers who cite a June 30 World Trade
Organization report that found European governments had provided
illegal aid to EADS’s subsidiary Airbus SAS.  
 Senator  Sam Brownback , a Kansas Republican, and Senator
 Maria Cantwell , a Democrat of Washington, are among those asking
the Pentagon to penalize Airbus’s bid by taking into account the
value of the subsidies it received. Boeing has assembly plants
in both states.  
 ‘Central Issue’  
 The trade dispute between the U.S. and the European Union
involving government assistance to airplane makers is “not the
central issue in this competition,” Crosby said. Boeing and its
backers are raising the issue as a diversionary tactic, he said.  
 Boeing is pressing the trade matter because the company is
“seeking a level playing field” against Airbus, which received
government aid for its airplanes,  Bill Barksdale , a Boeing
spokesman said in a phone interview.  
 Still, the tanker contest will be “fair and equitable,”
because the Defense Department has said the WTO’s ruling won’t
be considered in the competition, Crosby said.  
 Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said today at a Pentagon
news conference that he has assured lawmakers that the contract
will be awarded in a “fair and transparent” manner.  
 EADS reiterated its plans to set up an  assembly plant  in
Mobile, Alabama, to build the tankers. The company also has said
A330-based freighter aircraft will be built at the same plant.  
 If EADS wins the contest, the first three tankers will be
built at a plant in Madrid, and the final assembly of the fourth
airplane will be in Alabama, Crosby said.  
 Australia has ordered five planes based on EADS’s A330
tanker. Boeing has sold 767-based tankers to Japan and Italy.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ralph Crosby, chairman of European Aeronautic Defence and Space Co. North America. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Cai Von Rumohr, an analyst at Cowen & Co. LLC, discusses the competition between Boeing Co. and European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., the parent company of Airbus SAS, for a $35 billion contract to build aerial tankers for the U.S. Air Force.
     Von Rumohr talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Ralph Crosby, chairman of European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.'s North American unit, talks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about the company's bid for a $35 billion contract to build aerial tankers for the U.S. Air Force.
     The Air Force plans to award a contract by November for 179 airplanes to replace its 1950s-era tankers. EADS is offering its Airbus A330 plane to compete against Boeing Co.'s 767-based tanker. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
