-- LeBron Should Sign Short-Term Deal, Buy Gold, Anti-Inflation Group Advises
-- Cordell Eddings
-- 2010-07-08T18:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/lebron-should-sign-short-term-deal-buy-gold-anti-inflation-group-advises.html

          
          
             LeBron James , the National
Basketball Association’s Most Valuable Player the past two
seasons, should sign a short-term contract and plow his wealth
into gold and silver to protect himself against hyperinflation,
according to the National Inflation Institute.  
 James, 25, who became a free agent July 1, will end months
of speculation tonight, revealing in a live television special
where he’ll play next season. The Fort Lee, New Jersey-based
institute, which is “dedicated to preparing Americans for
hyperinflation,” according to the organization’s website,
suggests James be wary.  
 “If LeBron wants his money to be worth anything he should
sign a short-term contract, because the economic picture five
years out looks pretty bleak,” says Gerard Adams, the founder
and director of the group, in a telephone interview. “LeBron
James has said he wants to become a billionaire, but that will
only happen if he takes his current wealth and invests it into
gold and silver, in order to protect himself from
hyperinflation.”  
 He recommends James ink a three-year contract, rather than
the expected five- to six-year deal.  
 Adams, who says his organization has a membership of “tens
of thousands,” but declines to give an exact number, estimated
the real rate of U.S. inflation to be five to six percent.
Further, he expects “double-digit” inflation within the next
two years, the organization says in a statement today, even as
the  gap  between yields on Treasuries and Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities due in 10 years, a measure of the outlook
for consumer prices called the breakeven rate, has fallen to
1.72 percentage points.  
 Sounds Advice  
 The 6-foot-8 James has spent his first seven NBA seasons in
Cleveland and the Cavaliers can offer him about $30 million more
than other teams on a maximum-length contract. He will reveal
his decision tonight on a program, called “The Decision,”
scheduled to air at 9 p.m. New York time on Walt Disney Co.’s
ESPN network. His advisers met with the Cavaliers, New York
Knicks, Miami Heat, Chicago Bulls, New Jersey Nets and Los
Angeles Clippers during the past week.  
 James has plenty of people weighing in on where he should
go with everyone from U.S. President  Barack Obama  to filmmaker
 Spike Lee  offering advice. Adams, a New York Knicks fan, says he
cares more about what James does with his money.  
 “Everyone is so wrapped up in the LeBron story that they
don’t see hyperinflation coming,” Adams says. “I hope LeBron
is smarter.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        