-- LeBron James Blows by A-Rod in Egomania Battle: Scott Soshnick
-- Scott Soshnick
-- 2010-07-08T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/lebron-james-beats-a-rod-in-egomania-battle-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html

          
          
             LeBron James  sure has a short memory.  
 Clearly the two-time National Basketball Association Most
Valuable Player has forgotten the Olympic experience in Beijing,
where he,  Kobe Bryant  and the rest of the U.S. multimillionaires
came to realize -- or so we thought -- that they occupied only a
tiny sphere of the global sports scene. Seemed to.  
 Everything in sports, as they learned, didn’t revolve
around them. Some folks, lots of them, actually, came to marvel
not at them but a Chinese hurdler, a national hero who in the
end broke down in tears.  
 Some, a stadium-full, actually, came to see a wide-smiling
Jamaican sprinter who makes nine-point-something seconds worth
the price of admission. Whatever the price. Many, including the
basketball stars, the wannabe billionaires and global icons,
made their way to the Water Cube, where an American kid and his
teammates made a splash, all right, becoming the biggest story
of the Games.  
 Yes, bigger than basketball. Much, much bigger.  
 Well, as you might have heard, the 25-year-old James is
back in the spotlight these days. And all those lessons learned
seem to have been lost. Humble seems to have given way to look-
at-me hubris.  
 It isn’t enough for James, the grand prize in the NBA’s
 free-agent frenzy , aka the Summer of LeBron, to issue a
statement announcing his decision where to play. Short. Sweet.
Maybe James and his bevy of advisers would see that as a wasted
opportunity in a social-networking world where King James as of
two days ago began tantalizing teams via Twitter.  
 Two Words  
 James’s idol,  Michael Jordan , after a foray into baseball,
needed only two words to announce his return to the Chicago
Bulls: I’m back. That was it. Two words set the basketball world
abuzz. Two words reverberated around the world.  
 James requires more. He needs an hour all to himself. He
needs ESPN, where the “E” stands for entertainment. Gee, James
had already spoken with  Larry King .  
 In Beijing, Bryant showed up at the beach volleyball venue
to watch  Kerri Walsh  and  Misty May-Treanor , who could teach
James and the rest of basketball’s best a little something about
teamwork, togetherness and, in the end, triumph.  
 Check out LeBron’s Twitter account. He has, as I type this,
229,507 followers. They signed up fast and furious when news of
a legitimate King James handle was announced. More telling,
however, is the number of people who James is following. It’s
zero. He doesn’t care about anyone else. Not  Dwyane Wade  or
 Chris Bosh , who pre-empted James by announcing their intent to
join forces with the Miami Heat.  
 Attention Deficit  
 All this smacks of  Alex Rodriguez , who had the temerity to
announce his free agency during the 2007 World Series.
 Baseball’s  best player couldn’t stand that baseball’s best teams
were hogging the eyeballs.  
 Now that James is on Twitter, perhaps he should follow
ESPN’s  Bob Ley , who yesterday tweeted from the World Cup in
South Africa that no one outside of the Americans has even
mentioned the name LeBron. No one.  
 Maybe he should follow fellow All-NBA First Team player
 Kevin Durant , who yesterday tweeted that he’d agreed to a five-
year extension with the Oklahoma City Thunder. Surely the
league’s top scorer could have snagged a few minutes of face
time on ESPN.  
 You have to wonder if James, building drama for the ESPN
audience, will make like one of those overhyped high-school
athletes and sit behind a table with baseball caps from the
Bulls, Cavaliers, Clippers, Heat, Knicks and Nets. Then, after
almost 60 minutes of meaningless blather, the King will pick a
crown.  
 Sales Job  
 James will try and sell the notion that he sees the one-
hour special as a way to raise money for  charity . Surely
sponsors will pay for any affiliation with the King, whose
largess will extend to the Boys and Girls Clubs of America.  
 Don’t buy it. This is about one man’s insatiable desire for
attention, as if that somehow aids his goal of winning multiple
championships and becoming a billionaire.  
 James’s friend, a fellow by the name of  Warren Buffett ,
doesn’t do hype. He’s lauded for results. James hasn’t won
anything. Not yet.  
 Well, that’s not exactly true. He, Bryant, Bosh and the
rest of the NBA stars did win the gold medal in Beijing.  
 You remember Beijing, right? That’s where James spoke of
things bigger than himself.  
 ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) – Bloomberg Columnist Scott Soshnick discusses the outlook for LeBron James of the National Basketball Association and the reigning Most Valuable Player’s live television special tonight to announce where he’ll be playing next season.
      James, who became a free agent July 1, will end months of speculation by announcing whether he’ll return to Cleveland or spurn his hometown Cavaliers. Soshnick talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
