-- U.K. Economy Grew 0.7% in Second Quarter as Growth Doubled, Institute Says
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-07-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/economic-expansion-pace-doubled-in-second-quarter-national-institute-says.html

          
          
             The U.K.’s pace of  economic growth 
more than doubled in the second quarter, the National Institute
of Economic and Social Research said.  
 Gross domestic product  rose 0.7 percent in the three months
through June, compared with a 0.3 percent gain in the first
quarter, the London-based institute said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. Niesr’s clients include the Bank of England
and the U.K. Treasury.  
 The bank’s  Monetary Policy Committee  yesterday kept its
200-billion pound ($303 billion)  bond-stimulus plan  in place and
left its main interest rate at a record low to aid the economic
recovery.  Martin Weale , who managed Niesr and oversaw its
economic forecasting and analysis since 1995, will join the MPC
next month.  
 “Further acceleration in GDP growth would start to reverse
the rise in unemployment seen over the recession,” the
institute said in the statement. “Unfortunately, the U.K.
economy does face headwinds. Fiscal consolidation both in the
U.K. and the euro area will restrict growth in the short term
and there is clearly a risk that this rate of growth will not be
maintained through the rest of this year.”  
 Data from the Office for National Statistics showed
 economic growth  in the first quarter slowed from a 0.4 percent
pace in the previous three months. Niesr’s GDP forecasts have
margins of error of between 1 and 2 percentage points when
compared with the equivalent first estimate produced by the ONS
for a calendar quarter, the institute said.  
 Industrial Production  
 Niesr’s growth estimate comes two weeks before the
statistics office will release its own preliminary estimate for
second-quarter economic growth, on July 23.  
 “If we saw that rate continue, that would be pretty solid
growth,”  Jonathan Loynes , chief European economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in London, said in a telephone interview. “But
there are good reasons to think that the second quarter, however
strong it will be, will turn out to have been the peak.”  
 With a budget squeeze looming, the International Monetary
Fund this week cut its forecast for U.K. growth through 2011,
predicting 1.2 percent expansion this year and 2.1 percent in
2011. That compares with an April projection for growth of 1.3
percent and 2.5 percent.  
 Niesr produces its forecast after the publication of
factory output data each month.  Industrial production , which
accounts for about 17 percent of the economy, increased 0.7
percent in May after a drop of the same size the previous month,
the ONS said yesterday.  
 The Treasury named Weale as an external MPC member earlier
this week to replace  Kate Barker , whose term on the panel ended
May 31. Weale will take part in the central bank’s rate-setting
meeting for the first time in August and his involvement with
Niesr’s forecasting process ended on July 5, according to a
statement released by the Treasury that day.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- George Buckley, chief U.K. economist at Deutsche Bank AG, talks about the outlook for Bank of England monetary policy.
     All 60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predict the BOE's Monetary Policy Committee will today keep the interest rate at 0.5 percent. Buckley speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's
"Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
