-- Legg Mason Looking to Buy China Property Stocks as End to Tightening Seen
-- Hanny Wan
-- 2010-07-08T09:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/legg-mason-s-hongkong-investment-may-add-to-real-estate-holdings-in-china.html

          
          
             Legg Mason Inc. ’s Hong Kong
investment unit is looking “closely” at buying more shares of
Chinese developers as the risk of further measures to curb real-
estate prices eases.  
 Legg Mason may further increase its holdings of developers
to “overweight” over the next one or two months, said  Crystal Chan , head of Hong Kong and China investments at Legg Mason Hong
Kong, an affiliate of Legg Mason Inc., which oversees $658
billion. Her fund currently has a “neutral” rating on
developers.  
 “From here on there isn’t a big risk of aggressive
tightening,” Chan said at a media briefing in Hong Kong today.
“If property prices witness some 15 percent to 20 percent drop,
that should give a signal of the market bottoming.”  
 China intensified a crackdown on real estate speculation
after announcing the economy expanded at an 11.9 percent  annual
pace  in the first quarter, the most since 2007. Measures have
included raising the minimum rates of interest payable on
mortgages and increasing down payment ratios for some home
purchases.  
 The efforts have contributed to a decline in real-estate
sales, while  prices  continue to climb. The value of property
sales dropped 25 percent in May from the previous month. The
increase in prices, at an annual 12.4 percent in May according
to a government survey of 70 cities, was down from a 12.8
percent advance in April.  
 “The physical property market has reflected government
policies, and stocks have already reflected the bad news,” Chan
said.  
 ‘May Cut Banks’  
 Concerns over banks’ fundraising plans brought the shares’
valuations to “attractive” levels at the beginning of the year,
which prompted Legg Mason to increase its holdings in banking
stocks, Chan said.  
 “We may cut our holdings in banking stocks on a relative
basis” while raising holdings in developers, Chan said.  
 Legg Mason Hong Kong Equities Fund  has dropped 8.3 percent
this year through yesterday, less than the 9.2 percent decline
in the city’s benchmark Hang Seng Index.  
 In addition to Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.’s initial
public offering, which may become the world’s largest, its four
biggest rivals -- Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.,
 China Construction Bank Corp. , Bank of China Ltd., and Bank of
Communications Co. -- have announced plans to raise as much as
$34.4 billion by selling bonds and shares. The lenders are
seeking to restore capital eroded by record lending and comply
with stricter rules governing financial strength.  
 Even though Legg Mason did subscribe to  Agricultural Bank ’s
IPO, the fund manager is “very price-disciplined” and most
likely wasn’t allocated any shares, Chan said.  
 Agricultural Bank, China’s No. 1 lender by customers,
priced its Hong Kong shares at HK$3.20 apiece this week after
the stock was offered for between HK$2.88 and HK$3.48, said two
people with knowledge of the pricing.  
 “Growth comes at a price,” Chan said. “There are plenty
of other choices available.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        