-- Egypt Inflation Probably Little Changed as Central Bank Keeps Rate on Hold
-- Alaa Shahine
-- 2010-07-08T10:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/egypt-inflation-probably-little-changed-as-central-bank-keeps-rate-on-hold.html

          
          
             Egypt’s inflation rate was probably
little changed in June from the previous month, supporting the
central bank’s policy of keeping interest rates low.  
 Urban inflation, the headline rate that the central bank
monitors, probably rose to 10.6 percent from 10.5 percent in
May, according to the  median estimate  of six economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. The forecasts ranged from 10.1 percent and
11.5 percent. The data is due to be released on July 10.  
 The central bank said last month that it believes  inflation 
is subdued enough to justify keeping interest rates unchanged at
the lowest level since 2006. The bank cut rates six times in
2009 to support economic growth, which accelerated to 5.8
percent in the first quarter of 2010 from 5 percent in the
previous three months.  
 “The central bank will intervene if it sees more sustained
inflationary pressures from non-food items,” said  Reham El- Desoki , senior economist at Egyptian investment bank Beltone
Financial, who forecasts inflation at 10.9 percent.  
 Core inflation, which excludes the costs of fruit and
vegetables along with regulated prices, probably accelerated to
6.8 percent from 6.7 percent, according to the median estimate
of five economists.  
 Some investment banks, including Cairo-based Pharos
Holding, said that they expect a rise in food costs because of a
June price increase by  Juhayna Food Industries , the country’s
biggest seller of packaged milk. Dairy products account for 6
percent of the consumer price index, Pharos said in a report
this week, forecasting inflation at 11.5 percent.  
 Other causes of inflation include a higher sales tax on
tobacco and cigarettes, and a rise in gas prices for industries
that don’t use energy intensively. The latter increase is
“modest in scope” and won’t have a “major impact” on
inflation,  John Sfakianakis , chief Middle East and North Africa
economist at Credit Agricole CIB, said by e-mail. He forecasts a
headline rate of 10.1 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        