-- Telefonica May Amend Vivo Bid to Appease Portugal After Ruling
-- Anabela Reis
-- 2010-07-09T16:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/telefonica-may-amend-vivo-offer-to-appease-portugal-telecom-government.html

          
          
             Telefonica SA  may grant  Portugal
Telecom SGPS SA  a minority holding in its Brazilian assets to
win approval for its 7.15 billion-euro ($9.1 billion) offer for
the Portuguese company’s stake in Brazil’s largest wireless
operator, analysts said.  
 Telefonica wants to merge Vivo with  Telecomunicacoes de Sao
Paulo SA , or Telesp, the Spanish company’s fixed-line unit in
Brazil. Adjusting the offer to ensure Portugal Telecom has a
stake in the combined group would appease the Portuguese
government, said Banco BPI analyst  Pedro Pinto Oliveira .  
 The  European Court of Justice  yesterday said the government
doesn’t have veto rights at Portugal Telecom, voiding a decision
by Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  to block the
transaction at a shareholders meeting last month. Portugal said
it will alter its special rights in the company to comply with
the ruling, which isn’t retroactive to when the bid was made.  
 The companies could make “some small adjustments” to
complete the deal, said Francisco Salvador , co-strategist at
Iberian Equities in Madrid. “It’s a way to show that the
solution has been agreed on by all parties.”  
 Portugal Telecom  fell 3.5 percent to 8.30 euros in Lisbon.
Telefonica rose 0.3 percent to 16.21 euros in Madrid.  
 Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein, cut
her rating on Portugal Telecom to “underperform” from “market
perform” today, citing the bid and lower mobile termination
rates in Brazil. Mobile termination rates are operators’
wholesale charges to connect calls to each others’ networks.  
 Possible Outcomes  
 Bienenstock assigned a 5 percent probability of the current
bid succeeding and a 60 percent chance for a deal that “leaves
Portugal Telecom with a diminished economic interest in a larger
vehicle but does not force Portugal Telecom to cede control to
Telefonica,” she said today in a report.  
 Both companies said after the court ruling they are open to
negotiations. The Portuguese government said while it respects
the European court ruling, it requires changes to the bid.  
 “If that proposal isn’t altered, naturally the Portuguese
government’s position can’t be different,” minister  Pedro Silva Pereira  said after the court ruling.  
 Telefonica last month won approval from 74 percent of the
shareholders present at a meeting in Lisbon for its offer to buy
Portugal Telecom’s stake in their 50-50 venture Brasilcel NV,
which owns 60 percent of  Vivo Participacoes SA .  
 Vivo Options  
 Under the current offer from Telefonica, Portugal Telecom
can sell its entire Vivo stake in one go or dispose of a third
of it with an option to sell the rest over three years. The bid
is valid until July 16.  
 Allowing Portugal Telecom to own a minority in Telefonica’s
combined Brazilian business “would save the face of the
Portuguese government,” said Pinto Oliveira. “This would also
give time for Portugal Telecom management to find another
solution in Brazil if this one ends up not being suitable.  
 Portugal Telecom must find the “best solution that’s good
for all,” Chief Executive Officer  Zeinal Bava  said yesterday.
Telefonica spokesman  Miguel Angel Garzon  said that the Madrid-
based company is still willing to find possible solutions for
the transaction.  
 “Portuguese companies will always kowtow to the government
and so the realistic option remains a negotiated solution”
between the companies and the prime minister, said  Renaud Berenguier , head of U.K. sales at CM CIC Securities.  
 Dividend Payments  
 Giving Portugal Telecom a minority stake in the Brazilian
venture might not be welcomed by all investors, Execution Noble
analyst Andrew Hogley said.  
 Such an offer “may appease the government but Portugal
Telecom might end up with some angry shareholders,” he said. It
may be more attractive to shareholders to keep the current 50
percent stake as it gives them higher dividend payments and more
control, Hogley said.  
 To please the government, Portugal Telecom could also try
to come up with a new investment to remain in Brazil, said Joao
Caiado Guerreiro, a corporate lawyer at Lisbon-based Franco
 Caiado Guerreiro e Associados . Socrates said before the vote
that Portugal’s strategic interest requires a Portugal Telecom
with scale.  
 Tele Norte Leste Participacoes SA , Brazil’s biggest phone
company known as Oi, could be a target for Portugal Telecom to
maintain a foothold in the country, analysts including Link
Corretora’s  Maria Tereza Azevedo  have said.  
 Social Democrats  
 Portugal Telecom said in a July 4 regulatory filing that it
hadn’t studied any merger in the Brazilian market and hadn’t
tried to negotiate an Oi deal.  
 Socrates heads a minority Socialist government that could
fall if opposition parties block its budget or band together to
force it from power. The Social Democrats, the biggest
opposition party, are leading the Socialists in voter surveys,
and party leader Pedro Passos Coelho has said he would scrap the
golden share.  
 The Portuguese government maintained power over the former
state monopoly by controlling 500 class “A” shares with the
right to name a third of the board and to veto capital
increases, bond issuances and dividend payments. Portugal had
sold its common shares in the Lisbon-based company by 2000.  
 “Governments, any government, have enormous power,” said
Joao Caiado Guerreiro. “At this moment, everyone wants a
solution to save face.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at 
 ptobin@bloomberg.net ;
 Anabela Reis  in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Prime minister of Portugal Jose Socrates. Photographer: Mario Proenca/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Christopher Nicholson, a senior analyst at equity research firm Oraca Ltd., talks about the European Court of Justice ruling on Portugal's right to veto decisions by the country’s biggest phone company, Portugal Telecom SGPS SA.
    The European Union's highest court ruled today in Luxembourg that the so-called golden share gives the country an unjustified influence over the company. The governnmet is seeking to block the sale of Portugal Telecom's stake in Brazil's largest wireless operator. Nicholson speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
