-- Temasek Moves Ahead With SeaTown Unit as Test for Managing Outside Money
-- Joyce Koh
-- 2010-07-09T02:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/temasek-moves-ahead-with-seatown-unit-as-test-for-managing-outside-money.html

          
          
             Temasek Holdings Pte , Singapore’s
state investment company, may commit more capital to its Seatown
Holdings Pte unit and push ahead with plans to invite outside
investors.  
 SeaTown, funded with more than S$4 billion ($2.9 billion),
will pursue deals with institutional co-investors in three to
five years,  Simon Israel , Temasek’s executive director, said
yesterday at a results briefing for the year ended March 31.
SeaTown, started in 2009, may add retail investors within a
decade, he said.  
 “Temasek is attempting to reinvent itself from a passive
state investor to a more co-finance-type organization,” said
 Jan Randolph , head of sovereign risk at economic forecasting
firm IHS Global Insight in London. “In some ways it wants to
dilute its sovereign wealth fund-type genetic identity by
managing private funds.”  
 Singapore has already transformed  Temasek  from a passive
holder of stakes in government-controlled companies to an
investor with more than two-thirds of underlying assets abroad.
Its Fullerton Fund Management unit invests in hedge funds,
equities and bonds. The value of Temasek’s assets climbed 43
percent to a record S$186 billion on March 31, it said yesterday.  
 A separate unit was needed for co-investments because
“Temasek is a far more complex institution for us to engage
with the public,” Israel, 57, said. Planning started in 2007
when Temasek considered “opening a platform for the Singapore
public to co-invest with us,” he said.  
 Assets Climb  
 “SeaTown is a test bed, if you will, to explore how this
can be done in a sensible and sustainable manner,” Israel said.  
 Temasek, founded to help develop the island nation’s banks,
airlines and ports, invests the income of the companies it owns,
not government budget surpluses or oil revenue.  
 The company is “quite satisfied” with SeaTown’s progress
since it was set up in August, Israel said. The unit makes
investment decision independently from Temasek.  
 “Our initial commitment of S$4 billion is not
insignificant and that may well change over time depending on
the track record and the opportunities that SeaTown
establishes,” Israel said.  
 Charles Ong , Temasek’s former chief strategist, is running
SeaTown, while  Nasser Ahmad , co-founder of New York-based DiMaio
Ahmad Capital LLC, a credit hedge-fund firm, is the co-chief
executive officer.  
 Greater Diversification  
 Temasek holds mainly equities and focuses on Asia, Israel
said. “That leaves quite a lot in the world that we’re not
focused on and also leaves quite a wide range of asset classes
which we’re not necessarily engaging,” he said. SeaTown will be
“more diversified in geography and asset classes.”  
 Asia, excluding Japan, accounted for 78 percent of the
investment firm’s assets as of the end of March.  
 Temasek, which means sea town in Javanese, is an ancient
name of Singapore dating from the 15th century.  
 Temasek set up SingBridge International in June 2009 to
invest in and develop towns in Asia, such as the Tianjin Eco-
City in China. “From time to time, Temasek seeds new
businesses,” Israel said.  
 At a separate press briefing in Singapore, SingBridge
Chairman  Lim Chee Onn  said Temasek has provided seed capital to
fund the company for three to five years.  
 SingBridge said it typically co-invests with the host
governments on projects. Last month, SingBridge said it expects
to invest 2 billion renminbi ($295 million) for 50 percent of a
123 square-kilometer (76 square-mile) project in China.  
 “It may be different from investing in the stocks of a bank,
but they still get the returns,” said Lim on Temasek’s
shareholding. “It may take a little bit longer to achieve that
return by the nature of the project, but return it must.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net ;
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “Temasek is a far more complex institution for us to engage with the public,” Israel said on Thursday. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
