-- Temasek Raises Bets on Asia as Region Drives Recovery to $135 Billion Peak
-- Joyce Koh
-- 2010-07-08T08:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/temasek-raises-bets-on-asia-as-region-drives-recovery-to-135-billion-peak.html

          
          
             Temasek Holdings Pte , Singapore’s
state investment firm, plans to buy more Asian assets after bets
on the region drove a record gain in the value of its holdings.  
 Temasek’s assets climbed 43 percent to S$186 billion ($135
billion) in the year to March 31, surpassing the previous peak
of S$185 billion reached two years earlier, the firm said in its
annual report today. That offset last year’s S$55 billion plunge,
when it posted losses on bank stakes during the financial crisis.  
 Asian investments outside Singapore and Japan expanded to
almost half of Temasek’s portfolio and the value of its energy
and resources investments rose 72 percent as it tapped the
appetite for raw materials in China and India.  Temasek  will
benefit as Asia’s growing consumption cushions the effects of
the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe, said  Joseph Tan , Singapore-
based chief economist for Asia at Credit Suisse Group AG.  
 “They have shifted their strategy to look more into
emerging markets, more into Asia, and Asia is looking to be one
of the bright spots in the world today,” Tan said before the
report. “Growth is still relatively robust” in Asia, he said.  
 The  International Monetary Fund  forecast China and India
will post the world’s quickest growth rates this year of 10.5
percent and 9.4 percent respectively. The euro area will grow at
1 percent in 2010 and the U.S. by 3.3 percent, it said.  
 While the  MSCI World Index  rose 49 percent in the 12 months
to March 31, it has since plunged 10 percent on concern the
economic recoveries in Europe and the U.S. are petering out.  
 ‘Choppy Waters’  
 “Choppy waters lie ahead, but Asia will maintain its
secular long-term growth,” Temasek Chairman  S. Dhanabalan  said
in the annual report. “Our focus on Asia continues.”  
 Net income  fell 26 percent to S$4.6 billion from S$6.2
billion a year earlier because of lower profit contributions
from some portfolio companies that were hurt by the financial
crisis, Chief Financial Officer  Leong Wai Leng  told reporters.
Temasek, founded to help develop the island’s banks, airlines
and ports, generates assets from the income of the companies it
owns, and not government budget surpluses or oil revenue.  
 The investment firm is finding alternative ways to boost
returns as China attempts to contain asset-price bubbles, Europe
battles a sovereign debt crisis and governments there embark on
austerity programs to trim budget deficits. These measures could
“pose headwinds to global economic growth in the near term,”
Chief Investment Officer  Tow Heng Tan  told reporters.  
 “Over the next three years, we expect to continue to stay
liquid, and continue to invest and divest at a steady pace,”
Executive Director Simon  Israel  said at a press conference today.  
 Succession Planning  
 Temasek, which aborted the appointment of  Charles “Chip” Goodyear  last year to replace Chief Executive Officer  Ho Ching ,
57, has named former Singapore Exchange Ltd. CEO  Hsieh Fu Hua  an
executive director and president to handle succession planning.  
 Last July, the company reversed its appointment of 52-year-
old Goodyear, the former head of  BHP Billiton Ltd. , citing
“differences regarding certain strategic issues.” BHP Billiton
is the world’s largest mining company.  
 Ho, the wife of Singapore Prime Minister  Lee Hsien Loong ,
remains in charge.  
 “There is no active search for a new CEO,” Executive
Director Simon  Israel  told reporters.  
 Future Investments  
 Over the next decade, Temasek is likely to raise its
investments in Asia and steadily increase them in regions such
as Latin America, CIO Tow said.  
 Asian investments outside of Singapore and Japan made up 46
percent of the portfolio as at March 31, up from 43 percent the
year before. Investments in Singapore rose to 32 percent of
assets, from 31 percent, while holdings in more developed
countries that are members of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development shrank to 20 percent from 22 percent.  
 Temasek’s made S$10 billion in investments, including
spending more than S$3 billion in the financial year buying
additional shares of companies such as Jakarta-based PT Bank
Danamon Indonesia and Singapore’s  Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. 
Temasek’s participation in rights offerings by companies in its
portfolio bolstered its assets as the shares advanced.  
 Temasek also injected S$1.5 billion into Singapore Power in
October to support its growth plan, and added investments in
South Korea and India.  
 Long-Term Returns  
 Temasek  has had an annual return of 17 percent since its
inception in 1974, according to the report, up from 16 percent
annualized since it reported in September.  
 Divestments in the year to March 31, including the sale of
its 62 percent stake in Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing
Ltd., fell to S$6 billion from S$16 billion the previous year.  
 Investments in financial firms rose to 37 percent of its
portfolio from 33 percent after it increased its stake in China
Construction Bank Corp. and the value of such investments
swelled as markets recovered. Temasek has agreed to buy $200
million of shares in the Hong Kong part of Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd.’s initial public offering.  
 Temasek sold its stakes in Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America Corp. and London-based  Barclays Plc  at losses in
the previous year.  
 The value of Temasek’s investments in resources firms rose
to S$11.2 billion, or 6 percent of its total portfolio, from
S$6.5 billion, or 5 percent. It invested in Calgary-based oil
and natural-gas explorer Niko Resources Ltd. and Singapore-based
agricultural commodities supplier  Olam International Ltd.   
 Temasek also added assets in Latin America, investing in
Amyris Biotechnologies Inc., the U.S. parent of a Brazilian
biofuels producer, and Santiago-based  LAN Airlines SA , Latin
America’s biggest carrier by market value.  
 Setting Up Seatown  
 In August, Temasek said it set up a wholly owned global
investment company, Seatown Holdings Pte, with committed capital
of S$4 billion. Seatown, which makes its investment decisions
independently, will co-invest with “sophisticated investors”
within the next three to five years, Israel told reporters in
connection with the report.  
 While  Temasek  will invest mainly in equities and focus on
Asia, Seatown will be “more diversified in geography and asset
classes,” Israel said. Seatown may co-invest with institutional
investors in three to five years, he added.  
 Temasek also set up SingBridge International in June last
year to invest and develop towns in Asia, such as the Tianjin
Eco-City in China.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net 
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Song Seng-Wun, an economist at CIMB Research Pte, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about business confidence in Singapore, and the outlook for Temasek Holdings Pte's financial results.
     Temasek is set to post a record jump in the value of its assets as markets rebounded and the Singapore state investment firm increased bets in Asia. Song also discusses the outlook for the global economy and stimulus policies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Ho Ching, chief executive officer of Temasek Holdings, speaks during a news  conference in Singapore. Photographer: Charles Pertwee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
