-- Emerging-Market Stocks Gain as IMF Raises Global Economic Growth Outlook
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-07-08T21:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/emerging-market-stocks-gain-as-imf-raises-global-economic-growth-outlook.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks gained, with
the benchmark index rising to the highest level in almost two
weeks, and currencies strengthened after the International
Monetary Fund raised its forecast for global economic growth.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose 1.1 percent to 940.75
by 5 p.m. in New York, the highest level since June 28. South
Korea’s won and the Colombian peso strengthened 1.1 percent
against the dollar. Bonds  rallied  for a fourth day, sending the
extra yield on emerging-market debt over U.S. Treasuries 12
basis points lower to 3.15 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  
 All 10 industry groups in the  MSCI index  climbed after the
IMF said the world economy will expand 4.6 percent in 2010, the
biggest gain since 2007, compared with an April projection of
4.2 percent. The Washington-based fund said central banks in
emerging-market nations have tightened monetary policy
“appropriately” and must remain responsive to potential
threats to growth.  
 “The IMF report shows there is strong demand in the
economy, it’s a big positive for the equity markets,” said  Alex Mathews , head of research at Geojit BNP Paribas Financial
Services Ltd. in Kochi, India.  
 The MSCI emerging gauge has retreated 4.9 percent this year
on speculation China’s efforts to curb inflation and spending
cuts by governments worldwide will prompt analysts to cut
earnings projections. The index is valued at about 11 times 2010
profit estimates, down from 13 times at the start of the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Technology Gains  
 India’s  Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index  climbed 1
percent today. The MSCI China Index of Hong Kong-traded stocks
rose 0.9 percent, while the Shanghai Composite Index of A
shares, traded mostly by local investors, slipped 0.3 percent.  
 Today’s rally in emerging-market equities followed a jump
in U.S. stocks yesterday on an International Council of Shopping
Centers report that retail sales are growing at the fastest pace
since 2006. A U.S. government report today showed the number of
Americans applying for jobless benefits last week declined to
454,000, below the median forecast of 460,000 in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists.  
 Technology companies posted the biggest advance in the MSCI
emerging gauge, rising 2 percent as a group.  
 Brazil’s  Bovespa stock index  gained for a third day after
the IMF raised its forecasts for the nation’s economic growth
and a drop in U.S. jobless claims bolstered confidence in the
global recovery.  
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, gained as crude prices advanced in New York.  
 Turkish Bonds Rally  
 HTC Corp. , the world’s largest maker of handsets using
Microsoft Corp. and Google Inc. operating systems, rose 5.4
percent in Taipei after the Economic News said it may sell its
own brand in China from July 27. HTC’s Chief Financial Officer
 Cheng Hui-ming  couldn’t be reached for comment.  
 AU Optronics Corp. , a Taiwanese maker of liquid crystal
displays, climbed 4.6 percent. June sales gained 38 percent from
a year earlier, the company said yesterday.  
 China First Heavy Industries Co., a maker of mining and
energy equipment, and China Erzhong Group Deyang Heavy
Industries fell 1.3 percent in Shanghai trading after UBS AG
said China will “intensify” enforcement on land policies.  
 Turkish bonds rallied, pushing yields to an eight-month
low, after a court’s ruling on constitutional changes averted a
confrontation with Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , easing
concern his Justice and Development party, or AKP, would call an
early election. Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index of shares
climbed 1 percent.  
 “The surgical nature of the court’s decision and AKP’s so-
far measured response will be received positively by the
markets, as risk of an early election seems to recede,”  Inan Demir , chief economist at Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said in an
e-mailed report to clients today.  
 -- Chua Kong Ho . With assistance by  Tal Barak Harif  in New York
and Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai. Editors:  Linda Shen ,  Alan Mirabella .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
Or  kchua6@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        