-- Henderson Land Declines Legislative Council Invite to Discuss Failed Sales
-- Kelvin Wong
-- 2010-07-08T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/henderson-land-declines-legislative-council-invite-to-discuss-failed-sales.html

          
          
             Henderson Land Development Co.  has
declined an invitation to appear at Hong Kong’s Legislative
Council next week to answer lawmakers’ questions related to
failed sales of luxury apartments at one of its project.  
 Members of the Legislative Council’s housing panel on July
5 voted 7-to-1 to invite the developer, controlled by
billionaire  Lee Shau-kee , to the July 12 meeting. Henderson’s
attendance would be voluntary, panel Chairman Wong Kwok-hing
said at the meeting. The company declined the invitation in a
press release last night.  
 The Hong Kong government has introduced measures to cool
home prices and increased scrutiny of developers’ sales methods
since Henderson’s October announcement that it sold an apartment
at its 39 Conduit Road project for a record HK$88,000 ($11,300)
a square foot. That was among 20 purchases that were canceled by
prospective buyers, the builder said last month. The government
has sought details on the sale agreements.  
 “The company feels it’s not appropriate to join the LegCo
meeting at this stage” because it has already submitted details
on the transactions and an investigation is still under way,
said Erica Leung, Henderson Land’s spokeswoman.  
 Henderson submitted its responses to the government’s
queries on the sales to the Council on July 5.  
 Hong Kong police and other law enforcement agencies are
investigating the sales at the project, Transport and Housing
Secretary  Eva Cheng  told lawmakers during the Legco session.
Cheng declined to specify the other agencies and give a schedule
for the investigation.  
 Newspaper Ads  
 Henderson on July 2 took out full-page advertisements in
most local newspapers, claiming all transactions were
“genuine” and “buyers weren’t connected to the company.”  
 Henderson used standard contractual terms in the
transactions and booked the sales according to Hong Kong
accounting standards, the statement said.  
 Henderson was questioned last month for a seventh time by
the city’s government, which asked the company to provide copies
of title deeds and additional details on how it calculated the
interest penalty for late payments.  
 Hong Kong housing prices have risen 9 percent this year,
adding to 2009’s 29 percent advance. Financial Secretary  John Tsang  in February announced a higher stamp duty on luxury
properties and has pledged to raise the supply of land as it
seeks to reduce the risk of a property bubble.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        