-- India Draws More Equity Investments, Boosting Emerging-Market Fund Inflows
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-07-09T02:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/equity-funds-lose-11-25-billion-as-money-market-inflows-surge-epfr-says.html

          
          
             Global and Asian emerging-market
stock funds took in net inflows as investors bought more shares
in Taiwan and India in the week ended July 7 even as they pulled
$11.25 billion from equity funds worldwide, EPFR Global said.  
 Global emerging market stock funds attracted $518 million
and those investing in Asia excluding Japan drew $124 million
as Indian inflows rose to an 11-week high and Taiwan funds had
their second-best week this year,  EPFR  said in an e-mailed
statement. Global-tracked bond funds attracted $3.6 billion and
those investing in money markets took in $33.5 billion.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose 0.3 percent to 943.71
as of 10 a.m. in Singapore, taking its gains this week to 3.3
percent, the most in three weeks. The International Monetary
Fund raised its forecast for global growth this year and as U.S.
retail sales gained, boosting optimism for the outlook for
corporate earnings.  
 “Some encouraging assessments from both the IMF and
Australia’s central bank, allied to renewed optimism the U.S.
and Europe will not suffer a double-dip recession, helped
 emerging-market equities  regain some lost ground,” EPFR said.
“In the case of Asia ex-Japan equity funds, investors responded
to the arrival of India’s monsoon rains and to the signing of an
Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement by Taiwan and China.”  
 India, Taiwan  
 The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  has risen 1.1
percent gain so far this week. India’s monsoon, the main source
of irrigation for the nation’s 235 million farmers, was 2
percent above normal last week, the weather office said
yesterday. Taiwan’s  Taiex  index is heading for a 4.1 percent
weekly rally that will be the best since the period ended Sept.
4, on speculation that the trade agreement with China will
benefit the island’s companies.  
 The Reserve Bank of Australia on July 7 kept the benchmark
cash rate at 4.5 percent for a second month and signaled it’s
prepare to refrain from further interest-rate increases in
coming months.  
 Elsewhere, Latin America equity funds posted a 13th
straight week of outflows and developing Europe, Middle East and
Africa funds snapped a “modest” three-week inflow amid
withdrawals from Russia and Eastern Europe, according to the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research company.  
 Emerging-market bond funds also took in $740 million,
taking year-to-date inflows to 184 percent of the full-year
record set in 2005, with investors favoring funds that had a
mandate for hard currency debt for the first time since mid-
March, EPFR said.  
 The yield premium investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell to 3.2 percentage points
yesterday, compared with 3.4 points a week ago, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Plus Index. The spread reached 3.55
points on May 25, the widest since September 2009.  
 Emerging-market bonds handed investors a 6.5 percent  return 
this year, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Diversified
Index, the broadest gauge of markets in 39 countries. Treasuries
gained 5.7 percent and European debt rose 3.4 percent, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s indexes.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- John Brynjolfsson, chief investment officer at Armored Wolf LLC, talks about his investment strategy for emerging markets.
     Brynjolfsson also discusses the global economy, U.S. bond market and Federal Reserve monetary policy. He speaks with Matt Miller and Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
