-- Erdogan Risking Losses in Polls as Kurdish War Spurs Nationalist Backlash
-- Benjamin Harvey
-- 2010-07-08T21:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/erdogan-risking-losses-in-polls-as-kurdish-war-spurs-nationalist-backlash.html

          
          
             Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
pushed for cultural rights and investment, not guns and
censorship, to end Turkey’s 26-year war against Kurdish
separatism. Opponents say the mounting death toll shows he got
it wrong.  
 Militants from the Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) have
killed at least 35 soldiers in the largely Kurdish southeast
since May 31. The violence has Erdogan, who must run for re-
election in the next year, fending off criticism from both
Kurdish sympathizers and their strongest critics.  
 Kurds say measures such as opening a state television
station in Kurdish don’t go far enough. More dangerous for the
government are signs of a backlash elsewhere, as nationalist
parties seek to portray Erdogan as soft on terrorism. Defusing
that charge is key for a premier who says his main aim is to end
the bloodshed. He said at a military service last month to honor
victims that the PKK “will drown in the blood they spilled.”  
 “Erdogan was the first person to recognize that there was
a real problem,” said  Amanda Akcakoca , a policy analyst and
program executive at the European Policy Centre in Brussels who
has published papers on Turkey’s application to join the
European Union. “But he didn’t really have a proper road map of
steps to be taken or consensus support from all levels of
society. He’s losing his popularity. It’s not a foregone
conclusion he’ll be re-elected.”  
 Poll Lead Narrows  
 The war has left about 40,000 people dead, mostly Kurds,
and cost $300 billion, according to government estimates. It’s
intensifying as Erdogan grapples with economic challenges such
as an  unemployment rate  of 13.7 percent as of April -- more than
3 percentage points above the level in 2007, when the last
parliamentary vote was held -- and faces his third election
campaign, with a narrowing lead.  
 The premier’s Justice and Development Party is backed by 39
percent of Turks, compared with 26 percent for its main
challenger, the Republican People’s Party, and 13 percent for
the Nationalist Action Party, according to the average of three
polls by research companies Sonar, Genar and MetroPoll in May
and June. The Justice party won the  2007 election  with 47
percent, to 21 percent for the Republicans.  
 Increased PKK violence may result in Erdogan losing votes
to the Nationalists, said  Adil Gur , head of the Istanbul-based
A&G Arastirma polling company. Oktay Vural, the Nationalists’
deputy leader, accuses Erdogan of encouraging the PKK and
undermining national unity through his willingness to recognize
a Kurdish ethnic identity. His party called last month for
martial law in the southeast.  
 Terrorism ‘Awakened’  
 “By saying that we can find a political solution to
terrorism, terrorism has been awakened and it’s come to a point
where the government can’t control it,” Vural said in a June 30
interview at the  parliament  in Ankara. “We’ve come to a point
where Turkey’s national identity is being debated.”  
 The Republicans fire similar criticisms at Erdogan, 56.
 Kemal Kilicdaroglu , who took over as party chief in May, said in
a July 6 speech in parliament that the government is “bringing
the country to the brink of division.”  
 Such rhetoric may resonate with voters as PKK attacks
spread from the southeast. Five people were killed in a June 22
bomb blast in Istanbul and the PKK, which claimed
responsibility, warned of a wider campaign of attacks. Military
funerals have become platforms for anti-government protests: In
the southern city of Mersin on June 21, a group of mourners
 surrounded and tried to attack  Justice party lawmaker Ali Er;
one was detained.  
 Eroded Popularity  
 “The Kurdish strategy has not succeeded and has begun to
erode Erdogan’s popularity because of the rise in attacks,”
said  David Lubin , chief economist for emerging markets at
Citigroup Inc. in London. Should the government step up public
spending to restore its standing, that coupled with benchmark
interest rates at a record low of 7 percent could swell the
 current account deficit , he said in an interview.  
 Additional challenges facing the premier include fallout
from Turkey’s dispute with Israel over the killing of nine
Turkish activists aboard a Gaza-bound aid ship on May 31.  
 Political opponents, including Vural, criticized Erdogan
for putting the interests of other Islamic countries ahead of
Turkey’s. Yet public opinion was pressing in the opposite
direction, with almost two-thirds of Turks saying the
government’s response to Israel after the killings was too weak,
a June 3 study by MetroPoll found. The survey of 1,000 people
cited a margin of error of 3 percent.  
 The government also must win backing in a Sept. 12
referendum for constitutional amendments to curb the powers of
judges and prosecutors. The country’s top court on July 7
canceled some of the proposed changes, saying they would
undermine judicial independence.  
 Cultural Inclusion  
 Erdogan told lawmakers in parliament on June 22 that he
won’t back down from the Kurdish opening, arguing that the key
to ending the PKK war lies in economic development and cultural
inclusion.  
 Along with loosening curbs on Kurdish broadcasters, Erdogan
has pledged to invest $15 billion over four years to complete an
irrigation and power-generation project, and encouraged
companies to invest.  
 Istanbul-based  Koc Holding AS , Turkey’s biggest company, is
building an $80-million tomato-paste plant in the region that it
says will be the world’s fifth largest. Mobile phone operator
 Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS , also in Istanbul, opened a call
center in Diyarbakir, the southeast’s biggest city, in 2008.  
 Few other businesses have followed suit. The Kurdish
southeast was largely excluded from a Turkish boom that saw
output per capita more than double to about $8,500 since
Erdogan’s party won power in November 2002, while the benchmark
 ISE-100 stock index  surged fivefold.  
 Few Jobs  
 Of the nine Turkish provinces where less than one-third of
the potential workforce had jobs last year, eight were in the
southeast, according to  government figures . Average incomes in
the region’s 13 provinces ranged between one-third and two-
thirds of the national figure, according to a 2008 report by the
United Nations Development Program.  
 Erdogan’s Kurdish initiative has fallen short, said  Emma Sinclair-Webb , an Istanbul-based Turkey specialist at Human
Rights Watch. She highlighted the premier’s failure to prevent a
judicial and police crackdown on the main Kurdish party, which
was shut down by courts last year amid widespread arrests.  
 “Hundreds of Kurdish politicians have been prosecuted for
making propaganda for the PKK and praising crime and criminals,
making statements which we think would fall within the realm of
free speech,” Sinclair-Webb said.  
 The military continues its hunt in the southeast. A running
tally on the army’s  website  counts 71 PKK members killed since
the beginning of June, as Erdogan’s goal of shifting the
conflict from the battlefield into the political arena recedes.  
 To do that, “they need the support of other parties,”
Sinclair-Webb said. With elections approaching, “it’s hard to
see how that’s going to happen.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Prime Minister of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Photographer: Evaristo SA/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
