-- ESPN Signs 12-Year Contract to Televise Atlantic Coast Conference Sports
-- Curtis Eichelberger
-- 2010-07-08T17:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/espn-signs-12-year-contract-to-televise-atlantic-coast-conference-sports.html

          
          
             Walt Disney Co .’s ESPN reached a 12-
year agreement to show Atlantic Coast Conference football, men’s
and women’s basketball, Olympic sports and conference
championships through the 2022-23 school year.  
 Sports Business Journal  reported in May that ESPN will pay
$1.86 billion, about $155 million a year, for the rights. ACC
Commissioner  John Swofford  declined to confirm the number,
though he said reports have been “quite accurate.”  John Skipper , ESPN’s executive vice president of content, also
declined to confirm the number.  
 Swofford said the average television payout more than
doubles what the 12  ACC  schools currently receive. He declined
to say how much the schools get now.  
 “We think it strongly positions our league in the ever-
changing world of technology,” Swofford said on a conference
call. “Content will be televised more than at any time in our
history.”  
 Under the agreement, which starts with the 2011-12 school
year, at least 400 ACC sports events a year will be televised,
up from about 350 now.  
 Both Duke-North Carolina men’s basketball games will be
televised, and for contests shown on ESPN there will no longer
be blackouts in local markets when games aren’t sold out.  
 The agreement also ensures that every game of the women’s
basketball and men’s baseball tournaments will be televised, a
first for the conference, Swofford said.  
 Exclusive Rights  
 The agreement also gives ESPN exclusive digital and mobile
rights to ACC sports events, an area that Skipper says will grow
over the course of the agreement.  
 “College sports is very important to us. We have the need
for a lot of product,” Skipper said. “This is the first time
we’ve done an all-in deal with a conference where we worked to
be able to acquire all their product. It really works for us.”  
 ESPN President  George Bodenheimer , in Sun Valley, Idaho,
where he’s attending the Allen & Co. media conference, said that
in some cases it’s better for a conference to be a partner with
an existing network than to go to the expense of starting its
own from scratch.  
 “The broadest exposure is important,” Bodenheimer said.
“ESPN’s breadth and depth of coverage helps energize fans and
enliven alumni.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        