-- Euro Rises to Eight-Week High Versus Dollar as Trichet Sees Faster Growth
-- Matthew Brown
-- 2010-07-08T21:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/euro-rises-to-eight-week-high-versus-dollar-as-trichet-sees-faster-growth.html

          
          
             The euro climbed above $1.27 for the
first time since May as European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  said the economic recovery is gaining momentum.  
 The yen and dollar dropped against most of their major
counterparts as the International Monetary Fund raised its
global growth forecast and U.S. initial jobless claims dropped
last week, spurring demand for higher-yielding assets. The U.S.
Treasury Department said China’s yuan “remains undervalued”
and needs to rise more, without branding the country as a
currency manipulator.  
 “You’ve had a better tone in financial markets, risk
appetite has recovered,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior
currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York.
Positive U.S. economic reports don’t “completely kill off the
double-dip risk, but it definitely reminds us that the economy
is still there, it’s not falling into a hole,” he said.  
 The euro gained 0.5 percent to $1.2698 at 5 p.m. in New
York, from $1.2638 yesterday, after advancing to $1.2712, the
highest level since May 12. The shared currency increased 1.2
percent to 112.18 yen, from 110.84, after reaching 112.51, the
highest since June 21. Japan’s currency weakened 0.8 percent to
88.36 per dollar, from 87.70.  
 At a press conference in Frankfurt today, Trichet said
“indicators suggest that a strengthening in economic activity
took place during the spring.” The ECB’s main interest rate is
“appropriate,” and inflation expectations “remain firmly
anchored,” he said.  
 ECB’s Rate  
 ECB policy makers held the main refinancing rate at an all-
time low of 1 percent, as forecast by all 55 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  
 Chinese officials took a “significant step” last month
when they ended the yuan’s peg to the dollar and allowed markets
to drive the currency higher, the Treasury said in a report to
Congress released today. The report, initially due April 15,
also said it’s not yet clear whether the policy shift will
correct the yuan’s undervaluation.  
 The report shows Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s
resolve to work with China rather than confront it on the
currency issues. Geithner has repeatedly said it will be
“China’s choice” when to let the yuan rise, amid pressure from
U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer  and other lawmakers to press for a
speedier appreciation.  
 The euro also appreciated on speculation stress tests for
European banks were assuming smaller losses on Greek bonds than
some investors anticipated.  
 Stress Tests  
 European regulators have told lenders their planned tests
may assume a loss of about 17 percent on Greek debt and 3
percent on Spanish bonds, according to two people briefed on the
talks. Credit markets are pricing in losses of about 60 percent
on Greek bonds should the government default.  
 “Everybody’s waiting for some clarity regarding the
European stress tests,”  Sebastien Galy , a currency strategist
at BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness With  Margaret Brennan ” program.
“Details will pressure the currency higher.”  
 The pound fell against the dollar and euro as the Bank of
England held the target for its asset-buying plan unchanged at
200 billion pounds ($303 billion) today, as predicted by all 35
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The bank also kept its
main rate at a record low 0.5 percent.  
 Britain’s Housing  
 U.K.  house prices  decreased 0.6 percent in June from a
month earlier, Halifax, a unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc,
reported. Manufacturing output climbed 0.3 percent in May after
a revised drop of 0.8 percent in the previous month, twice the
rate of decline previously estimated, the Office for National
Statistics said.  
 The pound slid 0.1 percent to $1.5168, from $1.5189, after
rising to $1.5241, the highest level since May 4. Sterling
depreciated 0.6 percent to 83.72 pence per euro.  
 South Africa’s rand climbed 1.3 percent to 11.67 yen and
New Zealand’s dollar advanced 0.9 percent to 70.94 U.S. cents as
evidence of economic recovery discouraged demand for a refuge.  
 Initial claims for unemployment benefits in the U.S.
decreased to 454,000 in the week ended July 3 from 475,000 in
the previous week, the Labor Department reported. The median
forecast of 36 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
drop to 460,000 from a previously reported 472,000.  
 Yields on  10-Year Treasuries  rose above 3 percent for the
first time this month today after the drop in unemployment
claims damped bonds’ haven appeal.  
 The global economy will expand 4.6 percent in 2010, the
biggest gain since 2007, compared with an April projection of
4.2 percent, the Washington-based IMF said in revisions
yesterday to its World Economic Outlook.  
 The yen typically strengthens in times of financial
uncertainty because Japan’s trade surplus frees the nation from
dependence on overseas capital. The dollar benefits as the
world’s principal reserve currency.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Sebastien Galy, a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA, discusses the outlook for the euro and the prospects for stabilization of European credit markets.
     Galy speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
