-- ECB Keeps Rate at 1% as Crisis Threatens to Derail Recovery
-- Gabi Thesing
-- 2010-07-08T11:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/european-central-bank-keeps-rate-at-1-as-interbank-borrowing-costs-climb.html

          
          
             The  European Central Bank  left
interest rates at a record low as rising market borrowing costs
and the sovereign debt crisis threaten to derail the region’s
economic recovery.  
 Policy makers meeting in Frankfurt today kept the  benchmark
rate  at 1 percent, as predicted by all 55  economists  surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Separately, the Bank of England left its key
rate at 0.5 percent. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  holds a
press conference at 2:30 p.m.  
 Trichet is under pressure to do more to shore up investor
confidence in the 16-nation euro region as government spending
cuts and concerns about the health of the banking sector cloud
the outlook for growth. The International Monetary Fund said
yesterday the ECB may have to step up its purchases of
government bonds, which have already split the bank’s 22-member
Governing Council.  
 “We’re lacking the sense that the ECB is prepared to do
what is necessary,” said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-area economist
at BNP Paribas in London. “It still seems very uncomfortable
with the asset purchases and rising market rates are an
additional concern. Monetary policy should be a lot looser.”  
 Signs of Weakness  
 Europe’s economy is showing signs of weakening after
Greece’s fiscal crisis drove up bond yields in debt-strapped
countries and forcing governments to implement austerity
measures. Growth in the service and manufacturing industries
slowed for a second month in June.  
 The ECB’s unprecedented decision to start buying government
debt on the secondary market on May 10, which wasn’t supported
by all of its policy makers, has so far met with limited
success. The  extra yield  that investors demand to hold Spanish
10-year bonds over the German equivalents was at 203 basis
points today, higher than it was before the ECB started its
purchase program.  
 “Markets are not yet convinced of the central bank’s
commitment to scaling up purchases if necessary to prevent a
further deterioration of market functioning,” the Washington-
based IMF said in a report yesterday.  
 Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  and ECB Executive Board
member  Juergen Stark  have both criticized the bond purchases,
saying they pose significant risks to the bank’s credibility.
The ECB bought 4 billion euros ($5 billion) of bonds last week,
matching the lowest weekly amount since the program began and
bringing the total amount purchased to 59 billion euros.  
 Market Rates  
 Interbank borrowing costs have also been climbing since
financial institutions had to pay back a record 442 billion-euro
ECB loan on July 1, reducing excess liquidity in the system.  
 The European Overnight Index Average rate, or  EONIA , jumped
to 0.542 percent on June 30 from as low as 0.295 percent on June
3. The  rate  that banks charge each other to borrow for three
months has increased to 0.8 percent, the highest in 10 months,
from 0.63 percent at the end of March. Citigroup Inc. forecasts
that the overnight rate will rise to 0.8 percent by October.  
 “It’s the last thing the economy needs right now and the
question is really whether the ECB will tolerate rising interest
rates,” said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-area economist at
Citigroup in London. “It’s not only about at what rates banks
lend to each other overnight, a lot of private sector investment
hinges on three-month rates.”  
 ECB Loans  
 The ECB, which no longer gives banks 12-month loans, could
look at a new six-month offering in an effort to boost liquidity
and damp market rates, according to Citigroup and Commerzbank
AG. The ECB has already committed itself to another three
unlimited three-month loans fixed at its benchmark rate.  
 European Union regulators are carrying out stress tests on
91 banks to examine whether they can withstand a shrinking
economy and a drop in government bond values. Regulators are
counting on the tests on firms including Madrid-based Banco
Santander SA and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG to reassure
investors that banks have enough capital to withstand a debt
default by a European country.  
 The ECB is unlikely to extend any more help to Europe’s
banks until after the results of the stress tests are published
later this month, said  Paul Donovan , deputy head of global
economics at UBS AG in London.  
 “It needs to keep its powder dry,” he said. “If there’s
any kind of adverse market reaction, then the ECB is going to
need some kind of policy response.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in Frankfurt at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet is under pressure to do more to shore up investor
confidence in the 16-nation euro region. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
