-- Loans Refinanced at Fastest Pace in Two Years on Concern of Bank Squeeze
-- Karen Eeuwens
-- 2010-07-08T13:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/european-companies-rush-to-replace-loans-to-avert-funding-crunch-in-region.html

          
          
             European companies are seeking to
refinance loans at the fastest rate in almost two years, amid
concerns that banks’ ability to lend will be squeezed by tighter
regulations and higher funding costs.  
 Companies including PSA Peugeot Citroen and Iberdrola SA
borrowed $168.3 billion from banks since April, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, the biggest quarterly volume since
the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September 2008. Three
quarters of the deals were used to refinance debt, Bloomberg
data show.  
 European banks are forecast to halve loan growth over the
next two years from 7.5 percent since 2001, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch analysts wrote June 9. Stricter capital rules,
informally known as Basel III, would cut earnings at 13 of the
largest banks by $20 billion, JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimates.
The proposed regulation may “reduce the availability of loans
and increase the cost to borrowers,” according to the London-
based Loan Market Association.  
 “Banks are starting to feel a bit more concerned about the
current conditions and the impact of Basel III,” said Olivier
Casanova, head of financing and treasury at Paris-based Peugeot,
which is refinancing a 2.4 billion-euro credit line maturing in
March 2011. “We wanted to renew early because we are prudent
and conscious that market conditions are volatile.”  
 Contagion Concerns  
 Concerns about contagion into banks from debt-ridden
governments, such as Greece and Spain, have raised banks’
borrowing costs. The rate banks say they pay for three-month
loans in euros in London rose to 0.742 percent on July 7, the
highest level in almost 10 months, data from the British
Bankers’ Association show.  
 “In the last few months we’ve seen certainty of the
volatility in the market,” said Jean-Francois Balay, head of
global loan syndication at Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank, which ranked after BNP Paribas SA and Barclays
Capital Plc in arranging European loans in the second quarter.  
 Margins and fees for five-year loans to a typical A- credit
have fallen to below 85 basis points, from about 125 basis
points a year ago, according to  Julian van Kan , global head of
loan syndications at BNP Paribas, which arranged $14.7 billion
of deals in the second quarter as the most active bookrunner.
Borrowing costs soared after the credit crisis wiped out $1.8
trillion of investments.  
 “The market appears to have plateaued now,” van Kan said.  
 Iberdrola Halves Costs  
 Iberdrola, Spain’s largest utility, plans to halve its
borrowing cost to 75 basis points more than benchmark rates on a
new 2 billion-euro loan, compared with a similar-sized deal
signed in February 2009.  
 Platinum miner Anglo American Plc, signed a $3.5 billion
credit on July 2 to replace a $2.5 billion facility maturing in
2012, Bloomberg data show. The London-based company agreed to
pay an initial interest margin of 80 basis points on the deal, a
person involved in the deal said.  
 Iberdrola is rated A3 by Moody’s Investors Service, the
seventh-highest ranking, and an equivalent A- by Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch. Anglo American is rated Baa1 by Moody’s, the
eighth-highest, and a step lower at BBB by S&P.  
 “You’ve got a lot of very high-rated corporates with very
tight-priced market facilities maturing in 2012 and 2013, which
are now getting refinanced in advance,” said Balay at Credit
Agricole.  
 Peugeot is seeking at least 1.8 billion euros for its new
deal, and offered to pay an initial interest margin of 170 basis
points on money it draws from the three-year revolving credit.
BNP Paribas SA, Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank,
HSBC Holdings Plc, Natixis, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
Societe Generale SA are coordinating the deal. Peugeot is ranked
Baa3 by Moody’s, the lowest investment-grade, and a step lower
at BB+ by S&P and Fitch Ratings.  
 “There’s no benefit in waiting,” said Casanova at
Peugeot. “It’s a case of doing it well in advance so you’re not
put in a corner.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Eeuwens  in London 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Iberdrola SA, Spain’s largest utility, plans to halve its borrowing cost to 75 basis points more than benchmark rates. Photographer: Denis Doyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
