-- European Stocks Gain for Third Day as IMF Raises Growth Outlook
-- Sarah Jones
-- 2010-07-08T16:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/european-stock-index-futures-advance-as-imf-raises-global-growth-outlook.html

          
          
             European stocks  advanced for a third
day as the International Monetary Fund raised its global growth
forecast and banks climbed on optimism stress tests will ease
concern about the health of the financial system.  
 Mining companies Xstrata Plc and Antofagasta Plc rose at
least 2.9 percent.  BNP Paribas SA , France’s largest bank, and
Barclays Plc rallied as Credit Suisse Group AG recommended
investors increase their holdings of bank stocks. A.P. Moeller-
Maersk A/S jumped 3.7 percent after the world’s largest
container shipper raised its earnings forecast.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  climbed 1 percent to 248.6,
trimming the decline from this year’s high in April to 8.7
percent. The Stoxx 600 is trading at about 11.5 times estimated
earnings, near the lowest valuation in more than a year,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 “We are seeing quite a bit of rebalancing by institutions
out of fixed income and into equities,” said  Andy Lynch , who
manages about $1.9 billion at Schroder Investment Management in
London. “The trading seems to suggest there is some real
interest in the market going on. Equities down at this level are
probably a good bet.”  
 National benchmark indexes rose in 17 of the 18 western
European markets and extended gains after a U.S. report showed
 initial jobless claims  fell more than economists estimated. The
U.K.’s FTSE 100 rallied 1.8 percent, Germany’s DAX climbed 0.7
percent and France’s CAC 40 advanced 1.6 percent.  
 IMF Forecast  
 The IMF late yesterday revised its global growth outlook to
4.6 percent in 2010, reflecting a stronger-than-expected first
half. That would be the biggest gain since 2007 and compares
with the Washington-based fund’s April projection of 4.2
percent. Growth next year is projected to be 4.3 percent,
unchanged from the April forecast.  
 U.S. Labor Department figures today showed the number of
Americans applying for jobless benefits last week fell by 21,000
in the week ended July 3 to 454,000. An Australian report showed
job growth capped the best quarter in almost four years in June,
increasing 45,900 last month.  
 “The economy is moving forward,” Schroder’s Lynch said.
“It is slow but at least it’s going on the right direction.
Having been positioned very defensively, we are now trying to
take some baby steps into more cyclical stocks.”  
 Mining Companies  
 Xstrata, the world’s fourth-largest copper producer, jumped
2.9 percent to 936 pence. Antofagasta, owner of copper mines in
Chile, increased 3.4 percent to 851.5 pence, while BHP Billiton
Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, rose 1.7 percent to
1,819 pence.  
 BNP Paribas led a measure of bank shares to the second-
biggest gain among 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx 600, climbing
3.3 percent to 49.57 euros. Barclays, the U.K.’s second-biggest
lender, advanced 3.6 percent to 302 pence. Bank of Ireland Plc
surged 6.7 percent to 71.3 euro cents.  
 The European Union said late yesterday it is carrying out
stress tests on 91 banks, accounting for 65 percent of the
region’s banking industry, to examine whether they can withstand
a shrinking economy and a drop in government bond values.  
 The lenders being tested include 14 from Germany, six from
Greece and four from the U.K., the Committee of European Banking
Supervisors said. EU banking regulators have told lenders that
their planned stress tests may assume a loss of about 17 percent
on Greek government debt and 3 percent on Spanish bonds, two
people briefed on the talks said yesterday.  
 ‘Positive Catalyst’  
 Strategists at Credit Suisse raised their recommendation
for banks to “benchmark,” saying European sovereign-debt risk
is overstated, bank stocks are undervalued and the EU stress
tests “may be a positive catalyst.”  
 “The very fact that a stress test is taking place is
positive,” Credit Suisse’s London-based strategist  Andrew Garthwaite  wrote in a report today. “We doubt that stress tests
would be announced if they were going to disappoint the
market.”  
 Deutsche Bank AG analyst  Matt Spick  wrote in a report dated
yesterday that he expects most banks to pass the stress tests
and sees “fundamental reasons to be positive on selected
names.”  
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc  jumped 4.3 percent to 60.7 pence
as BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research reiterated its “buy”
recommendation, saying the U.K. lender’s shares may double
within two years.  
 Old Mutual, HSBC  
 Old Mutual Plc gained 3.5 percent to 113.1 pence after Sky
News reported that HSBC Holdings Plc is in the early stages of
assessing a bid for Nedbank Group Ltd., which is majority owned
by the insurer. HSBC spokesman  Adrian Russell  declined to
comment. HSBC stock rose 1.4 percent to 623.2 pence.  
 Maersk climbed 3.7 percent to 53,000 kroner. The company
said full-year net income, excluding minority interests, will
exceed the $3.5 billion reported for 2008 as freight prices
return to levels before the financial crisis.  
 Abertis Infraestructuras SA  rallied 3.8 percent to 14.60
euros in Madrid. Shareholders Criteria CaixaCorp SA and
Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA together with CVC
Capital Partners Ltd. will offer 16 euros per share to buy the
rest of Spain’s biggest highway operator, Expansion reported.
The newspaper did not identify who provided the information.  
 TGS-Nopec Geophysical Co. ASA posted the  biggest drop  in
the Stoxx 600, sliding 6 percent to 78 kroner. The Norwegian
surveyor of oil deposits forecast a 10 percent drop in second-
quarter sales after delays in a Norwegian licensing round and
carrying out seismic surveys in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        