-- Texas Rangers May Negotiate Sale Agreement With New Bidder, Official Says
-- David McLaughlin
-- 2010-07-09T00:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/texas-rangers-may-negotiate-sale-agreement-with-new-bidder-official-says.html

          
          
             The Texas Rangers may reach a sale
agreement with a new bidder to lead off its auction, replacing a
deal with a group led by  Chuck Greenberg  and  Nolan Ryan , the
chief restructuring officer for the team’s owners said.  
 The baseball team may scrap a sale agreement with the
Greenberg-Ryan group and make one with a new buyer that would be
subject to higher bids at an auction, William Snyder, the
restructuring officer, said today in a phone interview.  
 “Everything’s up in the air,” Snyder said.  
 The Rangers today withdrew a request in the U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Fort Worth, Texas, for permission to hold a July 16
auction. The team said on Monday that it would hold an auction
with the Greenberg-Ryan group acting as the lead bidder.  
 The Rangers will seek court approval for a sales process
with new terms and conditions, Snyder said. He declined to name
other potential bidders or say how many are interested in buying
the baseball team. It’s possible the Greenberg-Ryan group could
remain the lead bidder at the auction, according to Snyder.  
 “We’re going to go forward to find something that will
maximize the value” of the team, he said.  
 Mark Semer , a spokesman for the Rangers, declined to
comment. Kevin Sullivan, a spokesman for the Greenberg-Ryan
group, declined to immediately comment.  
 After the Rangers filed for bankruptcy in May, Snyder was
appointed to oversee two companies that own the Rangers. Those
companies are units of HSG Sports Group LLC, the holding company
of Texas businessman Tom Hicks.  
 Snyder’s Support  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  D. Michael Lynn  ruled last month that
the Rangers proposed bankruptcy plan, which is based on a sale
of the team, couldn’t win court approval without Snyder’s
support.  
 The Rangers initially hoped to win court approval of the
Greenberg-Ryan deal, valued at $575 million, without holding an
auction. On Monday, the team said in court papers that it agreed
to an auction following discussions with Snyder.  
 Snyder declined to comment today on why the team had
withdrawn its request for the auction or why a new sale
agreement was possible. He has been participating in mediation
this week with the team, its lenders, Major League Baseball and
others.  
 “All of that will come out in court,” he said.  
 Lynn is scheduled to hold a status conference tomorrow,
according to court papers.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners,
10-43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas
(Fort Worth).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        