-- Mexico Will Probably Raise 2010 Growth Forecast After IMF, Cordero Says
-- Juan Pablo Spinetto
-- 2010-07-08T14:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/mexico-will-probably-raise-2010-growth-forecast-after-imf-cordero-says.html

          
          
             Mexico’s government is likely to
raise its 2010 economic growth forecast following an increased
estimate from the International Monetary Fund, Finance Minister
 Ernesto Cordero  said.  
 The government’s current growth projection is 4.1 percent,
Cordero said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in London
today. Its new forecast may come in the next few weeks, he said,
declining to give details.  
 Latin America’s second-biggest economy will expand
4.5 percent in 2010, up from a previous estimate of 4.2 percent,
the Washington-based IMF said in a  report . Mexico’s economy is
being supported by an advance in worldwide trade that benefits
commodity exporters, the IMF said. Mexico is the largest oil
producer in Latin America.  
 The IMF forecast increase “is very important because it
reflects what the international markets perceive of the Mexican
economy, that we’re improving month by month, week by week,”
Cordero said. “The forecast of the Mexican government is
4.1 percent, and we believe we will be able to improve it.”  
 Mexican economists are forecasting gross domestic product
will rise 4.4 percent this year, according to a monthly central
bank survey.  
 The peso rose 0.4 percent to 12.7860 per dollar at 9:37
a.m. New York time. The Mexican currency is up 2.4 percent this
year, the second-best performance against the dollar among the
16 most-traded currencies after the Japanese yen.  
 ‘Sound Fundamentals’  
 Mexico may sell about 700 million euros ($888 million) of
bonds “very, very soon,” Cordero told reporters today. The
bonds will mature in 5 to 10 years, he said.  
 “We will be able to issue these bonds in very positive
conditions and also with a very good yield,” he said. “It’s
part of the strategy of refinancing our debt. Now there are
opportunities in the European markets and probably we will be
able to take advantage of it.”  
 The finance minister said Mexican peso bond yields are
decreasing as international investors see the emerging market as
less risky.  
 “The perception of risk of the Mexican economy is
decreasing,” Cordero said. “We have sound fundamentals,
macroeconomics are quite strong, the external driver of the
Mexican economy is very, very solid and we are beginning to have
a takeoff of the internal side of the Mexican economy.”  
 The yield on Mexico’s 10 percent peso bond due in 2024 may
plunge to 6.5 percent by year-end, said  Alonso Madero , who helps
manage 66 billion pesos ($5.1 billion) at Corp. Actinver SAB in
Mexico City. The yield fell to a record of 7.02 percent at 9:36
a.m. New York time today and has dropped 125 basis points this
year.  
 Cordero also said the government is likely to continue with
its oil hedging strategy next year and will make a decision in
the coming weeks.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laura Price  in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net ;
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        