-- Mexico Debt to Get Lift From `Double Dip' Recession Concern, Actinver Says
-- Andres R. Martinez
-- 2010-07-08T15:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/mexican-peso-bond-yields-may-extend-drop-to-record-6-5-madero-says.html

          
          
             Mexico’s peso bonds may extend the
rally that pushed yields to a record low as investors seek safer
assets on concern that the global economic recovery may slow,
Corp. Actinver SAB said.  
 The yield on Mexico’s 10 percent peso bond due in 2024 may
plunge to 6.5 percent by the end of the year, said  Alonso Madero , who helps manage 66 billion pesos ($5.15 billion) at
Actinver, a Mexico City-based brokerage. The yield fell two
basis points to 7.03 percent at 11:03 a.m. New York time,
according to Banco Santander SA, the lowest since the securities
were issued in 2005. The yield dropped 124 basis points in 2010.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index tumbled 16 percent from
this year’s high on April 23 through July 2 on concern a
sovereign-debt crisis in Europe and China’s moves to slow the
world’s largest emerging economy will dent global growth. The
Mexican government has sold 65 billion pesos of debt this year
through a syndicate of lenders, the first time the government
has sold debt through banks, as it lures foreign investors.  
 ‘Double Dip’  
 “As investors contemplate a possible double dip, they are
asking themselves ‘Which bonds don’t risk a default and are
returning high yields?’” Madero said. “Mexico is turning out
to be one of the favorites and clear examples of this.”  
 Investors will continue to purchase Mexican peso bonds for
their relative safety and high yields even if the economy in the
U.S., Mexico’s largest trading partner, falls back into
recession, Madero said. Yields on the Mexican peso bonds have
dropped 38 basis points since  Citigroup Inc.  said it would
include Mexican bonds in its World Government Bond Index in
October. The yields may fall to 7 percent “within days,” he
said.  
 Mexico may sell 700 million euros ($887.1 million) of bonds
with a maturity between five years and 10 years “very, very
soon,” Finance  Minister Ernesto  Cordero said today in London.  
 The government may sell seven-year notes priced to yield
185 basis points more than the benchmark mid-swap rate,
according to a person familiar with the deal.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican bonds over
U.S. treasuries has risen five basis points this year, or 0.05
percentage point, to 169, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI+ Index. Moody’s Investors Service rates Mexico’s bonds
Baa1, three levels above junk.  
 Consumer Prices  
 Consumer prices rose 3.69 percent in June from a year ago,
the second time this year that inflation fell within the central
bank’s target range of 2 percent to 4 percent. The economy may
grow 4.4 percent this year, after contracting 6.5 percent last
year, according to a Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts.  
 The government may raise its growth forecast this year,
Cordero said. The International Monetary Fund raised its
forecast for growth in Mexico to 4.5 percent this year, the
Washington-based organization said today in a report.  
 “The drop in inflation has been so important that Banco de
Mexico is unlikely to raise rates this year or even in the first
quarter of 2011,” said  Arnulfo Rodriguez , head of fixed-income
research at Citigroup’s Banamex unit in Mexico City. “It’s very
easy to sell Mexico to foreign investors right now. This is
creating a lot of interest and volume in the peso bonds.”  
 The central bank kept its benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 4.5 percent for a 10th straight meeting in June.  
 The peso rose 0.2 percent to 12.8162 pesos per U.S. dollar
from 12.8367 yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        