-- Extended Stay, Neenah Foundry, Medical Staffing, Cedarlake: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-07-08T12:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/extended-stay-neenah-foundry-medical-staffing-cedarlake-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             The  Extended Stay Inc.  reorganization
plan fails for two related reasons, according to papers filed by
the U.S. Trustee yesterday in the New York bankruptcy court.  
 The plan improperly grants releases and protection from
suits to non-bankrupt officers, affiliates and third parties,
the Justice Department’s bankruptcy watchdog said in a filing
opposing confirmation of the Chapter 11 plan.  
 In addition to letting third parties off the hook from
suits creditors otherwise would have the right to bring
directly, the U.S. Trustee contends that the releases cause the
plan to fail what’s known as the best interest test.  
 The plan, as described by the U.S. Trustee, gives unsecured
creditors nothing aside from proceeds of lawsuits the company
otherwise could bring. Given how the plan cuts off lawsuits
against logical targets, the U.S. Trustee says unsecured
creditors would be better off were the case converted to a
liquidation in Chapter 7.  
 Often without success, U.S. Trustees object to the breadth
of releases given to third parties under reorganization plans.  
 The best interest test requires the bankruptcy judge to
find that the plan gives creditors more than a liquidation in
Chapter 7. Extended Stay may argue that unsecured creditor
wouldn’t even receive lawsuit proceeds in Chapter 7.  
 The Extended Stay plan is set for approval at a July 20
confirmation hearing. The plan is built around a sale for $3.925
billion cash to Centerbridge Partners LP, Paulson & Co. and
 Blackstone Group LP . For details about the company’s plan and
the auction won by the Centerbridge group, click here to read
the June 10 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Extended Stay’s Chapter 11 petition in June 2009 listed
assets of $7.1 billion against debt totaling $7.6 billion,
including $4.1 billion in mortgage loans and $3.3 billion in 10
different mezzanine loans.  
 Based in Spartanburg, South Carolina, Extended Stay says
it’s the largest operator of mid-priced extended-stay hotels in
the U.S. The properties are almost all managed by HVM LLC, an
affiliate that didn’t file in Chapter 11.  
 The case is In re Extended Stay Inc., 09-13764, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Updates  
 Neenah Foundry Confirms Another Debt-for-Equity Swap  
 Neenah Foundry Co., a producer of cast-iron man-hole covers
and sewer grates, is set to emerge from Chapter 11
reorganization for a second time in less than seven years.  
 The bankruptcy judge in Delaware signed a confirmation
order on July 6 approving the reorganization plan that exchanges
the $237.5 million in 9.5 percent senior secured notes for 97
percent of the new stock plus a new $50 million secured loan.  
 Tontine Capital Partners LP, the controlling shareholder
and holder of the $88.7 million in 12.5 percent senior
subordinated notes, keeps 3 percent of the new equity plus
warrants to purchase 10 percent.  
 The disclosure statement said that senior noteholders
should have an 80 percent recovery. The dividend on the
subordinated notes is estimated at 7 percent.  
 Unsecured creditors with $12.3 million in claims are to be
paid in full as is the $54.2 million secured working capital
loan.  
 Neenah’s plan was negotiated with holders of 55 percent of
secured notes and all the subordinated notes before the Chapter
11 filing in February. The prior plan in September 2003 swapped
senior subordinated notes for $100 million in new subordinated
debt, $30 million cash, and half of the stock. Trade creditors
were paid in full the first time around.  
 Neenah is located in a Wisconsin town by the same name. It
reported a $150 million net loss for the fiscal year ended Sept.
30 on net sales of $333 million.  
 The case is In re Neenah Enterprises Inc., 10-10360, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Movie  Gallery Beginning Process of Selling Trademarks  
 Movie Gallery Inc. , the liquidating movie-rental chain, has
begun the process of selling trademarks and trade names
including Movie Gallery, Hollywood Video and Game Crazy.  
 The company filed papers last week with the bankruptcy
court in Richmond, Virginia, for permission to retain  Streambank
LLC  to market the intellectual property. Streambank is to be
paid a fee of $40,000 plus 15 percent of sale proceeds.  
 Gabe Fried , a managing partner with Streambank, told
Bloomberg News in an e-mail that the trademarks would be useful
for someone bent on competing with Redbox Automated Retail LLC
or  Blockbuster Inc.  Fried noted that Streambank sold the
intellectual property and database of  Circuit City Stores Inc. 
for $17 million.  
 Movie Gallery is completing the liquidation of the last
1,028 movie-rental stores. It just received approval to sell
inventory in the warehouse.  
 Movie Gallery had some 2,600 stores in operation on filing
under Chapter 11 again in February. The new filing was less than
two years after the previous bankruptcy reorganization. When the
new case began, debt included $100 million on a secured
revolving credit, $394 million on a first-lien facility, and
$146 million in claims held by second-lien creditors.  
 Great American Group Inc.  liquidated the last 1,028 stores
by guaranteeing $74.2 million.  
 Movie Gallery had 3,490 stores before the first bankruptcy,
which concluded with a confirmed Chapter 11 plan in May 2007.
For details on the second filing, click here.  
 The new case is In re Movie Gallery Inc., 10-30696, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District Virginia (Richmond). The
prior case is In re Movie Gallery Inc., 07-33849, in the same
court.  
 Medical Staffing Has Interim Borrowing Authority  
 Medical Staffing Network Holdings Inc. , a Boca Raton,
Florida-based provider of temporary nursing services, filed for
Chapter 11 reorganization on July 2 and was given temporary
authority yesterday by the bankruptcy judge to borrow $12
million from a promised $15 million credit.  
 The final hearing to approve the remainder of the loan will
be held July 21. The financing comes from existing lenders.  
 Medical Staffing intends to sell the business to first-lien
lenders in exchange for $84.12 million of the $98.2 million
they’re owed.  
 Holders of 90 percent of the $26.8 million in second-lien
debt consent to the sale, the company says in court papers. The
buyers are providing the $15 million in financing for the
Chapter 11 case.  General Electric Capital Corp.  is the agent for
the senior lenders. NexBank SSB is agent for the junior secured
lenders.  
 The bankruptcy judge selected July 21 as the date for a
hearing to settle on procedures for an auction to test if there
is a better offer for the business. If the judge in West Palm
Beach, Florida, goes along with the proposed schedule, the
auction would be Aug. 19, with a hearing the next day to approve
the sale.  
 Warburg Pincus Private Equity VIII LP owns 45 percent of
the equity of Medical Staffing. The company was created through
30 acquisitions since founding in 2008.  
 The petition listed assets of $87.8 million against debt
totaling $140.9 million. Revenue of $341 million in 2009
resulted in an operating loss of $34.3 million.  
 Revenue of $72 million in the first quarter of 2010 threw
off a $1.3 million operating loss. Projected revenue for 2010 is
$302 million.  
 The case is In re Medical Staffing Network Holdings Inc.,
10-29101, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District Florida (West
Palm Beach).  
 Cedarlake Retirement Community Has Bank’s ‘No’ Vote  
 The owner of the  Cedarlake Village  affordable retirement
community in Plainfield, Illinois, will be able to win approval
the Chapter 11 plan at a July 13 confirmation hearing only by
using the so-called cramdown procedure on the mortgage lender,
Bank of America NA.  
 The Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank voted its $30
million in secured claims against the plan. Unsecured creditors
voted “yes.”  
 The plan proposes to give the bank a new note maturing in
2035 and paying 3.25 percent interest. If cash flow is
insufficient to pay interest, unpaid amounts will be capitalized
and accrue interest.  
 Unsecured creditors are to be paid in full in installments
over four months.  
 The not-for-profit organization, affiliated with the
Franciscans, says that the retirement community is appraised for
$17.5 million. It has 186 units in two buildings. The Chapter 11
petition was filed in November in Chicago.  
 The case is In re Mayslake Village-Plainfield Campus Inc.,
09-43338, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District Illinois
(Chicago).  
 New York Chocolate Files Full-Payment Plan After Auction  
 New York Chocolate & Confections Co., which owned what had
been the first chocolate factory in the U.S. owned by  Nestle USA
Inc. , filed a Chapter 11 plan on July 6 where unsecured
creditors with $310,000 in claims will be paid in full, leaving
$240,000 for distribution to the owner, according to the
disclosure statement.  
 After the Chapter 11 filing in April, there was an auction
where the bankruptcy judge this week approved a sale of the
assets for $2.5 million to a group of five bidders led by
GoIndustry DoveBid. The price is sufficient to pay the $1
million loan made to finance the Chapter 11 case, along with
costs of the proceedings.  
 The company owns a 39-acre plant in Fulton, New York, that
hadn’t produced chocolate in four years. It is owned by a quasi-
governmental agency of the West African nation of the Ivory
Coast, the world’s leading producer of cocoa beans.  
 The plant was purchased from Nestle in 2003. It began
operations in the late 19th century.  
 The case is In re New York Chocolate & Confections Co., 10-
30963, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District New York
(Syracuse).  
 Daily Podcast  
 Visteon, Trade Secret, Skilled Healthcare Group: Audio  
 Potential problems with confirmation of the  Visteon Corp. 
reorganization plan, the new  Trade Secret Inc.  Chapter 11
filing, and the jury verdict against  Skilled Healthcare Group
Inc.  are discussed in the latest bankruptcy podcast on the
Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  
 Downgrade  
 L-l, Secure Identity Provider, Down to B3 by Moody’s  
 L-1 Identity Solutions Inc. , a provider of secure
credentials and systems to verify identity, sustained a one-
notch downgrade yesterday at the hands of Moody’s Investors
Service that lowered the corporate peg to B3.  
 The new Moody’s rating is one grade below the ding issued
in January by Standard & Poor’s.  
 Moody’s was reacting to amended covenants in the bank loan
that require a sale of the company by the end of September.
Moody’s also has concern over the availability of cash to deal
with loan amortization and the $175 million in convertible  debt 
that the Stamford, Connecticut-based company can be required to
repurchase in May 2012.  
 L-1 reported a $7.5 million net loss in the first quarter
on revenue of $148.2 million. The operating loss for the quarter
was $359,000. For 2009, the $4 million net loss resulted from
revenue of $650.9 million. Operating income last year was $35.1
million.  
 L-1 fell 16 cents yesterday to $8.l2 on the New York Stock
Exchange. The three-year high was $20.58 on July 9, 2007. The
three-year low was $3.26 on March 9, 2009.  
 Advance Sheets  
 Third Circuit Rules Stub Rent Is Administrative Cost  
 Landlords are entitled to full payment of so-called stub
rent, the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadelphia
ruled, coming down on one side of an issue that divided lower
courts.  
 The 3rd Circuit concluded on June 29 that a bankrupt
company must pay rent for the number of days in Chapter 11 if
the filing occurs during the month. The company unsuccessfully
argued that none of the first month’s rent was an expense of the
bankruptcy case if the rent was due before the Chapter 11
filing.  
 The 3rd Circuit, whose decisions govern the bankruptcy
courts in Delaware, followed the lower court ruling by U.S.
District Judge  Renee Marie Bumb . Although partial rent for the
first month isn’t required for payment under Section 365(d)(3)
of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, it is required under Section
503(b)(1), which gives administrative status to obligations
arising after filing.  
 The circuit court read the two sections as being
complementary. Not qualifying for administrative status under
Section 365 doesn’t preclude payment under Section 503.  
 Because stub rent is owing under Section 503, the 3rd
Circuit said that the landlord also must show that the
obligation is an actual and necessary expense in preserving the
estate. Given how the bankrupt company used the premises to
conduct going-out-of-business sales, there was no question about
sufficient benefit to justify administrative status.  
 Administrative claims are costs incurred after bankruptcy
and must be paid in full before unsecured creditors are entitled
to distributions.  
 For a discussion of prior cases on the stub rent issue,
click here for the June 9, 2009, Bloomberg daily bankruptcy
report under the heading Advance Sheets. To read about Judge
Bumb’s decision in the district court, click here for April 2,
2009, Bloomberg daily bankruptcy report.  
 The unanimous 3rd Circuit opinion was written by Circuit
Judge  Thomas L. Ambro , who had been a bankruptcy lawyer before
elevation to the bench. By amending bankruptcy law, Congress
created an ambiguity allowing bankrupt companies to argue that
none of a first month’s rent need be paid in full as an
administrative expense.  
 The case is In re Goody’s Family Clothing Inc., 09-2168,
3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Philadelphia).  
 Chapter 11 Trustee Personally Liable for Unpaid Taxes  
 A trustee in Chapter 11 is personally liable for unpaid
state sales taxes, the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New
Orleans ruled July 6.  
 The opinion, by Chief Judge  Edith H. Jones , found no room
for sympathy toward the trustee even though he was trying to
sustain the business for sale as a going concern.  
 Jones said it is “unusual” for a trustee to be liable
when the trustee did not personally benefit. Even though the
trustee was using the tax money in hopes of achieving a better
result for all creditors, she said that “good intentions are
irrelevant.”  
 The state law in question, patterned after federal tax law,
imposes personal liability on a person in control of company for
“willful” failure to pay taxes. The trustee was unquestionably
in control, Jones said. Because he knew the taxes were due and
consciously decided not to pay, she ruled the failure to pay was
willful. Jones said there is no different or higher standard of
willfulness for a trustee in bankruptcy than for an ordinary
corporate officer.  
 The trustee said that paying the taxes would cost him more
than $100,000.  
 The case is Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts v. Liuzza
(In re Texas Pig Stands Inc.), 09-50544, 5th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        