-- Exxon Mobil to Buy Back $3 Billion of Shares, Considers Debt Restructuring
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-08T20:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/exxon-mobil-to-buy-back-3-billion-of-shares-considers-debt-restructuring.html

          
          
             Exxon Mobil Corp. , the largest
publicly traded company, plans to buy back $3 billion of its
shares this quarter, easing the effect on shareholders from its
takeover of natural-gas producer XTO Energy Inc., and said it
will pay off or refinance the deal’s assumed debt.  
 The $25 billion purchase last month increased outstanding
shares at Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil, by 416 million, or
about 9 percent,  David Rosenthal , vice president for investor
relations, said today during a conference call with analysts.
The company also will pay off or refinance $11 billion of
assumed debt when the opportunity presents, he said.  
 The deal made Exxon Mobil the largest U.S. producer of
clean-burning gas, which Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson 
expects to be the fastest-growing fuel for more than two
decades. He kept almost all of XTO’s 3,300 employees and said a
team in its former Fort Worth headquarters will spend up to 18
months setting drilling priorities.  
 “Now that we’ve got this in-house, we want to look at what
are the optimization steps that could be taken,” Tillerson said
on the call. “We don’t have to be driven by all the aspects
that XTO standalone was.”  
 Exxon Mobil is ending XTO’s practice of locking in oil and
gas prices for future production and instead will use its
traditional yardstick of return on capital, Tillerson said. At
the same time, XTO was more efficient than Exxon Mobil at
drilling onshore wells such as those in the Permian Basin of
West Texas, Tillerson said.  
 Unconventional Bet  
 The XTO purchase is a long-term bet that gas from shale
formations, coal seams and other so-called unconventional
sources will meet rising U.S. demand through at least 2030 as
output from conventional wells declines, Tillerson said.  
 Exxon Mobil acquired the equivalent of at least 45 trillion
cubic feet of recoverable gas beneath 3.34 million U.S. acres
with the purchase, along with expertise to evaluate 4.8 million
acres of potential fields already accumulated outside the U.S.,
Tillerson said.  
 The unconventional assets include oil and gas trapped in
dense, hard rock such as shale, considered not worth drilling
until Texas oil-patch billionaire  George Mitchell  developed
methods to extract gas economically in the 1990s.  
 Exxon Mobil rose 38 cents to $58.81 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have fallen 14
percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        