-- Facebook Partners Vincent Tan's MOL for Payment Credits for Virtual Goods
-- Soraya Permatasari
-- 2010-07-08T06:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/facebook-partners-vincent-tan-s-mol-for-payment-credits-for-virtual-goods.html

          
          
             MOL Global Bhd. , a online payments
provider controlled by Malaysian billionaire  Vincent Tan , said
it will provide  Facebook Inc.  with a service to make buying
credits for games and other functions easier in Asia.  
 Under the agreement, Facebook users will be able to
purchase MOLPoints through the Kuala Lumpur-based company’s
network of more than 500,000 outlets in the region, MOL said in
a statement today.  
 “The partnership makes purchasing Facebook credits
significantly more convenient in Asia, a region where consumers
rely heavily on offline prepaid cards rather than credit cards
to purchase digital goods and services,” MOL said in the
statement.  
 Facebook users may buy credits to use in games such as
 Farmville , developed by San Francisco, California-based Zynga
Game Network Inc., which attracts more than 62 million players
monthly, according to Facebook’s website.  
 MOLPoints will be available in cybercafés, 7-Eleven Inc.
convenience stores and online banks in Malaysia, Singapore,
Indonesia, Philippines, Thailand, India, Australia and New
Zealand, according to the statement.  
 MOL Global is an affiliate of MOL AccessPortal Bhd., a
Kuala Lumpur-based Internet and e-commerce company that is owned
by  Berjaya Corp. , a company controlled by Tan. MOL Global last
year bought  Friendster Inc. , owner of the world’s oldest online
social networking websites.  
 Tan is in talks with a foreign investor to sell a stake in
MOL Global, he told reporters today, without elaborating. The
company may be listed in one to three years “when its market
value reaches 1 billion ringgit ($312 million),” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        