-- Fannie Raises $6 Billion in Note Sale at Lower Spread Than Prior Offering
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-07-08T20:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/fannie-raises-6-billion-in-note-sale-at-lower-spread-than-prior-offering.html

          
          
             Fannie Mae , the government-supported
mortgage company, raised $6 billion selling three-year
securities at lower yields relative to government notes than in
its last offering of similar debt, as central banks and foreign
investors made up the largest share of buyers in two years.  
 The company, in its largest sale of benchmark debt since
March, offered a yield of 1.257 percent, or 23.5 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries, Fannie Mae said today in
an e-mailed statement. Washington-based Fannie Mae issued three-
year notes at a spread of 27 basis points on May 19.  
 Spreads on so-called agency debt issued mainly by Fannie
Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks initially
widened in May as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis roiled markets.
They’ve since narrowed as investors speculate the bonds are
among relatively safe assets offering better yields than short-
term Treasuries being auctioned off at almost the lowest rates
on record amid signs the U.S. economic recovery is faltering.  
 Fannie Mae’s sale came amid investor demand for “high
quality, short duration bullets with spread stability,”
according to strategists at UBS AG, one of the underwriters.  
 “Several accounts have expressed a desire to pick up
bullets for the carry and the roll down, but hopefully at wider
levels,”  James Rhodes ,  Mike Schumacher , and  Chris Ahrens , the
New York-based strategists, wrote yesterday in a report before
the sale. “This underlying demand is half the reason why these
wider spread levels never seem to materialize.”  
 Central Banks’ Share  
 Bullets refer to bonds with fixed maturities. Carry refers
to the amount of yield on a bond over the short-term interest
rates that guide the cost of borrowing money to invest in the
debt. Roll down refers to the dynamic in which the same yield
can look more attractive as a security moves closer to maturity.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Central banks bought 55 percent of the debt sold today, up
from 36 percent in the May sale, according to Fannie Mae. U.S.-
based investors bought 42 percent, down from 62 percent. Those
were the highest and lowest shares, respectively, since July
2008, two months before the U.S. rescued Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac amid rising credit losses and Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s failure roiled markets, according to research firm
IDEAglobal.  
 The other reason for tighter spreads is that the agency
debt market has been shrinking, contracting $18 billion so far
this year as Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  trim their investment
portfolios and the financial-company owners of the Federal Home
Loan Bank system lessen their borrowing from it, UBS said.  
 Market Shrinkage  
 At the same time, the supply of fixed-rate mortgage
securities guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or federal
agency Ginnie Mae has shrunk by $70 billion this year, after
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac began buying more delinquent loans
out of the bonds to reduce their expenses, according a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. report based on data released yesterday.  
 The market for agency debt, aside from mortgage securities,
from so-called government-sponsored enterprises totaled $2.71
trillion on Dec. 31, down from $3.18 trillion a year earlier,
according to Federal Reserve  data . The Fed bought $171 billion
of the debt in a  program  meant to support markets that began in
December 2008 and ended March 31.  
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have received $145 billion in
capital injections funded by taxpayers, after being seized by
regulators in 2008. They are being offered unlimited aid through
at least 2012.  
 Agency Spreads  
 Agency debt  yielded  25 basis points more than similar
maturity Treasuries on average yesterday, up 1 basis point from
March 31 when the Fed ended its purchases and down from this
year’s high of 32 basis points on May 7, according to Barclay
Capital index data. The spread has narrowed from a record 180
basis points in November 2008.  
 Fannie Mae’s last three-year note closed yesterday’s
trading at a spread of 15.4 basis points, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  
 Fannie Mae’s benchmark notes are its largest type of debt
issue, with a minimum size of $3 billion. UBS, Citigroup Inc.
and Deutsche Bank AG led underwriters for today’s sale.  
 The amount of agency mortgage bonds and agency debt held at
the Fed for foreign central banks, sovereign wealth funds and
other official investors rose by $67 billion to $826.7 billion
on June 23 from a more-than-two-year low in November, according
to Fed  data . The holdings shrank in the following week to $824.8
billion, according to the latest available data.  
 Dollar-dominated assets have benefited this year from
concern that euro-area governments including Greece, Portugal
and Spain may struggle to refinance their debts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        