-- Fast Retailing May Fall in Tokyo Trading After Clothier Cut Net Forecast
-- Shunichi Ozasa
-- 2010-07-08T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/fast-retailing-may-fall-in-tokyo-trading-after-clothier-cut-net-forecast.html

          
          
             Fast Retailing Co. , Asia’s biggest
clothing retailer, may decline in Tokyo trading today after
cutting its full-year profit  forecast  on the weakest quarterly
sales growth in four years.  
 Fast Retailing  yesterday cut its  net income  estimate 4.9
percent to 67.5 billion yen ($766 million) for the year ending
August. Sales in the three months ended May  increased  4.7
percent to 188.1 billion yen, the slowest quarterly growth since
at least 2006.  
 Sales at stores open more than a year have fallen in four
of the first six months of the year on the lack of hit products
such as the 50 million items of HeatTech thermal wear sold last
winter, and the 9 million Bra Top camisoles sold in 2009. The
Uniqlo chain  operator  has lost 27 percent of its market value
this year, making it the  biggest loser  among retailers in the
 MSCI Asia Pacific Index .  
 The retailer’s  shares , which closed at 12,720 yen yesterday,
“could dip below 12,000” today, said  Mikihiko Yamato , an
analyst at Japaninvest KK. “Although it was expected because
Uniqlo’s recent same-store sales weren’t impressive, investors
may not take the cut in the forecast well.”  
 Fast Retailing , whose president and  biggest shareholder 
 Tadashi Yanai , 61, is Japan’s richest man, declined 0.1 percent
yesterday. It was one of three decliners yesterday on the  Nikkei
225 Stock Average , which advanced 2.8 percent.  
 Sales Estimate  
 Fast Retailing  also lowered its full-year sales estimate
2.3 percent to 815 billion yen. Cold weather, confusing
customers with too many designs and insufficient stock of
popular products also hurt Uniqlo’s same-store sales, Chief
Financial Officer  Hidetsugu Onishi  said yesterday.  
 Net income  fell 16 percent to 11.8 billion yen last quarter.
The quarterly figures were derived by subtracting first-half
results from nine-month earnings the company announced yesterday.  
 The reduction in forecast is “a move that’s unlike Fast
Retailing,”  Einosuke Yoshino , who holds the company’s shares
among the investments he overseas as chief investment officer of
Commons Asset Management Inc. in Tokyo.  
 Still, “gross margin is still high and the shareholders’
equity isn’t damaged, so I think the effect is marginal,” he
said.  
 Sales at Uniqlo stores  open at least a year fell 16 percent
in March, the most in seven years, and 12 percent in April. They
rose 3.1 percent in May when the company cut the prices of jeans
and polo shirts to 990 yen from 1,990 yen for three days. The
slump returned in June when sales fell 5.8 percent amid weak
demand for Uniqlo’s summer lines.  
 Comparable or same-store sales strip out the effect of
newly opened outlets. Uniqlo had 809 stores in Japan, accounting
for 86 percent of the total 944 outlets, as of May 31.  
 “Last September, the company had a hit product, Bra Top
camisole, and the hurdle will be quite difficult to overcome in
terms of the same-store sales,” Japaninvest’s Yamato said. “I
had the impression at the analyst meeting the company is piling
its inventories and seriously preparing for this fall.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shunichi Ozasa  in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        