-- Ford Motor Names Ex-Bank of America CFO James Hance to Board of Directors
-- Keith Naughton
-- 2010-07-08T20:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/ford-names-sprint-nextel-s-james-hance-to-automaker-s-board-of-directors.html

          
          
             Ford Motor Co. , the automaker whose
founding family holds 40 percent voting control, named former
Bank of America Corp. Chief Financial Officer  James H. Hance Jr. 
to its  board  as it seeks to reduce debt on its balance sheet.  
 Hance, 65, increases the board to 14 members, Dearborn,
Michigan-based Ford said today in a statement. Hance retired
from Bank of America in 2005 after 18 years with the company and
is now the non-executive chairman of  Sprint Nextel Corp.   
 “Jim brings to Ford’s board of directors an extremely
strong financial background and a track record of success both
as an executive and a director for several companies,”
Executive Chairman  Bill Ford , great-grandson of founder Henry
Ford, said in the statement.  
 Ford managed to avoid the bankruptcies that befell its U.S.
rivals because it borrowed $23 billion in late 2006 before the
recession. That left the automaker with a debt load that Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has said is now a competitive
disadvantage. Ford paid down $4 billion on its obligations June
30, leaving it with about $27 billion in automotive debt.  
 “Ford banked a huge cash pile well before the market
cratered,” said  Joe Phillippi , president of AutoTrends
Consulting of Short Hills, New Jersey. “They’ve had a good
financial team, and Hance will serve to buttress that.”  
 Committee Appointments  
 Hance will serve on Ford’s audit committee, finance
committee and the nominating and governance committee, the
automaker said. Hance also is a director at  Cousins Properties
Inc. ,  Morgan Stanley Corp.  and  Duke Energy Corp.  and is a senior
adviser to the Carlyle Group.  
 “I’m very excited to have this opportunity to serve on the
Ford board of directors and to work with Bill Ford, Alan Mulally
and the other directors,” Hance said in the statement. “This
is a company that has aggressively restructured over the past
few years and is profitably growing.”  
 Ford reversed three years of losses by earning $2.7 billion
in 2009. The company’s U.S. sales are up 27 percent this year,
and Mulally has said it will be “solidly profitable” in 2010.  
 Ford rose 3 cents to $10.62 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have risen 6.2 percent
this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        