-- German Bonds Decline, Set for Weekly Loss; Stock Gains Show Risk Appetite
-- Lukanyo Mnyanda
-- 2010-07-09T15:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/german-bonds-fall-as-higher-stocks-sap-safety-demand-before-ecb-s-meeting.html

          
          
             German government bonds fell, pushing
the two-year note yield to a two-month high, as stock-market
gains and increasing optimism that the world economy won’t slip
back into recession reduced demand for safer assets.  
 The securities posted a second consecutive week of losses
as the MSCI World  Index  of stocks headed for its biggest weekly
gain in almost a year. The European Central Bank kept interest
rates unchanged yesterday as President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
the need to buy government bonds to prop up so-called peripheral
markets may be diminishing. Bunds declined even as a report
showed inflation in Germany slowed in June.  
 “Risk aversion is abating and there’s little to stop the
bond bears at the moment,” said  Glenn Marci , a fixed-income
strategist in Frankfurt at DZ Bank AG, Germany’s biggest
cooperative lender. “The short-term outlook is to the
downside.”  
 The two-year note yield increased four basis points to 0.77
percent as of 4:16 p.m. in London. It reached 0.81 percent
earlier, the most since May 4. The 0.5 percent security maturing
in June 2012 fell 0.08, or 80 euro cents per 1,000-euro ($1,264)
face amount, to 99.49. The benchmark 10-year bund yield was
little changed at 2.63 percent. It climbed earlier to 2.67
percent, the highest since June 23.  
 Trichet, speaking at a press conference in Frankfurt after
yesterday’s decision to keep the refinancing rate at 1 percent,
said there is a “tendency from the outside to be excessively
pessimistic” about Europe’s economy. Germany’s DAX stock index
climbed 0.4 percent today, a fourth straight advance.  
 Stark Comments  
 Bunds are paring gains that pushed yields to record lows
after investors sought refuge in German securities amid concern
that nations from Greece to Spain wouldn’t be able to meet debt
obligations. The 10-year yield reached 2.5 percent on June 8,
the lowest since Bloomberg started compiling the data in 1989.  
 ECB Executive Board member  Juergen Stark  said that should
bond markets improve, the Frankfurt-based central bank may halt
its purchase program. The ECB bought 4 billion euros of
securities in the week ended July 2, taking its total to 59
billion euros in the eight weeks the program has operated.  
 “You have seen from the weekly data” that amounts “have
declined already, that’s a signal that it has improved,” Stark
said to reporters at a conference in Frankfurt today. “We’ve
always said that this is a temporary measure, like other non-
standard measures. If the situation improves further, there’s no
reason anymore to continue with this program.”  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold German 10-year
bunds instead of two-year notes may narrow to a 16-month low as
reports signal the nation’s economy is improving more quickly
than anticipated, Nomura International Plc said.  
 ‘Risky Proposal’  
 The spread may tighten to about 170 basis points by the end
of July, the lowest level since March 23, 2009, strategists led
by  Nick Firoozye  wrote today. The gap narrowed five basis points
to 186 basis points today, down from a 13-year high of 237 basis
points on May 11, according to Bloomberg generic data.  
 International rescue programs for Greece don’t address
“long term solvency,” and until that is done, going back to
Europe’s peripheral markets is going to remain “a pretty risky
proposal,”  Andrew Bosomworth , Munich-based head of portfolio
management at Pacific Investment Management Co., said in a
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown.” “I still
look for safe assets with some carry.”  
 The Greek 10-year yield was little changed at 10.36
percent. The  yield  on Spanish 10-year bonds dropped eight basis
points to 4.72 percent.  
 German debt has returned 6.7 percent so far this year,
compared with 5.7 percent for U.S. Treasuries and 6.1 percent
for U.K. gilts, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts’ Societies. Greek
bonds lost 18 percent, the indexes show.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        