-- German Industrial Production Increased 2.6% in May, Exceeding Forecasts
-- Christian Vits
-- 2010-07-08T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/german-industrial-production-increased-2-6-in-may-exceeding-forecasts.html

          
          
             German  industrial production  rose
more than economists forecast in May as the global recovery
fueled demand for goods from Europe’s largest economy.  
 Production increased 2.6 percent from April, when it gained
a revised 1.2 percent, the  Economy Ministry  in Berlin said
today. Economists had forecast a 0.9 percent gain for May, the
median of 30 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey  showed. From a
year earlier, production advanced 12.4 percent when adjusted for
the number of work days.  
 While Europe’s sovereign debt crisis has shaken markets,
it’s also pushed the euro down 12 percent against the dollar
this year, making exports to countries outside the currency bloc
more competitive just as the global recovery gathered pace.
German factory orders jumped in March and April and exports
surged 9.2 percent in May.  
 The German economy is profiting from rising demand “in
Asia and increasingly in the U.S., and the weaker euro will also
have a positive effect,” said  Ralph Solveen , head of economic
research at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “Industrial production
will continue to expand in coming months and economic growth
will be very strong in the second quarter.”  
 Investment goods production advanced 4.6 percent in May and
basic goods production increased 3.2 percent, today’s report
showed. Construction activity fell 2.3 percent after gaining 2.5
percent in the previous month.  
 Business Confidence  
 German business confidence unexpectedly rose to a two-year
high in June and  unemployment  fell for a 12th month, putting the
nation’s export-led economic recovery on a broader footing.
Still, growth may slow as governments across the euro region cut
spending to rein in budget deficits, damping domestic demand.  
 German  factory orders  unexpectedly fell for the first time
in five months in May, led by a decline in demand from the euro
area.  
 Industrial production in Europe “is expected to
decelerate” in coming quarters, Munich-based  Ifo research
institute  said in a report yesterday. “The austerity measures
to be introduced in many member states are likely to exert a
dampening effect on domestic demand” while growth in many
emerging economies will likely “moderate in the second half of
2010,” it said.  
 The  Bundesbank  on June 11 raised its growth forecasts even
as the government agreed to reduce spending by 80 billion euros
($99 billion) over the next four years. The German central bank
predicted expansion of 1.9 percent this year and 1.4 percent in
2011, up from 1.6 percent and 1.2 percent respectively.  
 TUI AG,  the biggest single shareholder in the Hapag-Lloyd
steamship company, this week raised its forecast for container
shipping and said it now expects “significantly positive
operating earnings.”  Volkswagen AG ’s Audi luxury unit last
month increased production to meet higher demand, particularly
from China.  
 “In the short run, we’re still optimistic,” said  Andreas Rees , chief German economist at UniCredit Bank in Munich. “But
a global slowdown is under way, which will weigh on German
exports.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Workers assemble a Mercedes Benz E-Class automobile on the production line in Daimler AG's Mercedes factory in Stuttgart. Photographer: Wolfgang von Brauchitsch/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
