-- GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Hurt by Rupee Drop, Northwest Conflict, CEO Says
-- Farhan Sharif
-- 2010-07-08T04:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/glaxosmithkline-pakistan-s-profit-hurt-by-rupee-drop-northwest-conflict.html

          
          
             Profit at  GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan
Ltd. , the country’s largest drugmaker, is being hurt by a
weakening rupee and conflict in the northwest, and the
government should deregulate prices to help, the company’s chief
executive said.  
 Pakistan’s drug prices are as much as 60 percent lower on
average than other South Asian countries, Chief Executive
Officer  M. Salman Burney  said in an interview yesterday at his
Karachi office. Allowing drugmakers to set prices would help
companies like GlaxoSmithKline,  Abbott Laboratories Pakistan
Ltd.  and Pfizer Pakistan Ltd. expand sales in the world’s
seventh most populous country and increase exports, he said.  
 “They must consider gradual deregulation, as India and
Bangladesh did,” said Burney, 54. “Almost all the drugs are
price-regulated by the government.” The company, Pakistan’s
biggest pharmaceutical producer, is 79 percent owned by
GlaxoSmithKline Plc of London.  
 Pakistani drugmakers need approval from the health ministry
every time they seek an increase in prices. Qazi Abdus Saboor,
the ministry’s spokesman, did not return calls made to his
office in Islamabad seeking comment on the drug pricing policy.  
 “Deregulating drug prices is sensitive because
affordability is an issue,” said  Naveed Vakil , head of research
at AKD Securities in Karachi. “If prices are deregulated, the
government fears it won’t be easy to monitor increases.”  
 Infant Mortality  
 The World Bank estimates a quarter of Pakistan’s population
lives on less than a dollar a day. The nation had an infant
mortality rate of 65.1 per 1,000 in 2009, the highest in South
Asia, according to the Finance Ministry’s annual economic survey
released last month.  
 “Less than half the population has access to advanced
healthcare,” Burney said. “The industry only needs a
regulatory framework to allow growth and balance a good
commercial model with consumer needs. It will open new revenue
areas for the government also with growth in exports and higher
employment.”  
 Pakistan drug exports may rise to $2 billion a year from
$200 million with a proper regulatory framework, he said.  
 “For pharmaceutical companies there is a potential for
growth in the Pakistani market,” said  Habib-ur-Rehman , who
manages stocks and bonds worth 4.8 billion rupees at Atlas Asset
Management Ltd. in Karachi. “The price volatility and the weak
policy by the government toward these companies causes
disturbance in their business.”  
 Lower Prices  
 Lower drug prices than elsewhere in South Asia lead to
smuggling to Africa, India, Sri Lanka, the Middle East, East and
Central Asia, Burney said.  
 Drugmakers in Pakistan import most raw materials, he said.
The rupee’s 23 percent decline against the dollar in past two
years has increased their cost of production, resulting in a
drop in profit.  
 GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan’s  profit  fell to 933.0 million
rupees ($11 million) last year from 1.9 billion rupees in 2008.
There are 400 pharmaceutical companies in Pakistan selling 100
billion rupees of drugs a year. Revenue grows by an average 12
percent a year.  
 Business has also been hurt by conflict in the northwest of
the country where the military has been fighting Taliban
militants since last year. The Swat Valley and tribal areas
bordering Afghanistan were the worst hit, Burney said.  
 “Supplies, distribution and promotion are all disrupted in
those areas,” he said.  
 Shares  of GlaxoSmithKline rose 2.1 percent to 79.95 rupees
on the  Karachi Stock Exchange  yesterday. The stock has lost 27
percent this year compared with a 3 percent increase in the
 benchmark  index.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Salman Burney, chairman and chief executive officer of GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Ltd., speaks during an interview in Karachi. Photographer: Asim Hafeez/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
