-- Stocks to Rally in Second Half on Better-Than-Estimated Growth, HSBC Says
-- Alexis Xydias
-- 2010-07-08T07:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/global-stocks-to-rally-in-second-half-on-growth-outlook-hsbc-analysts-say.html

          
          
             Stocks worldwide may rally 16 percent
by year-end as growth outpaces investors’ forecasts, according
to strategists at  HSBC Holdings Plc .  
 Equity prices are about 25 percent cheaper than their long-
term average, offsetting the effect of leading economic
indicators that may be peaking, Hong Kong-based  Garry Evans  and
London-based  Robert Parkes  wrote in a third-quarter outlook
report today. The strategists advised buying U.S., Australian,
German, Spanish and emerging-markets stocks, and selling those
in Japan.  
 “The consensus is very bearish on the outlook, with many
people braced for a double dip in the global economy and a long
period of sub-par growth as developed countries reduce excess
government debt,” the strategists wrote in the report. “With
equity markets, it is always worth remembering that what is
important is not what will happen, but what will happen relative
to what is expected.”  
 Equities have rebounded this week on optimism losses last
quarter may be unwarranted given that the global economy is
still growing. The  MSCI World Index  fell 17 percent between
April 15 and July 5 on concern a sovereign-debt crisis in Europe
is spreading and as economic reports in China and the U.S.
disappointed investors.  
 IMF Outlook  
 Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Research and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are among banks
that this week advised investors to buy equities following the
selloff.  
 The International Monetary Fund yesterday raised its
forecast for global growth this year, reflecting a stronger-
than-expected first half, while warning that financial-market
turmoil has increased the risks to the recovery.  
 Declines  last quarter  were “no more than a normal
correction often seen in year two of a bull market,” Evans and
Parkes wrote. The strategists advised favoring businesses that
benefit from “long-term secular growth trends” such as energy,
basic resources and industrial-goods makers, they added.  
 HSBC cut its view on Japanese equities to “underweight”
because of the outlook for the economy and a strong yen, the
note said. The strategists have the same recommendation for
continental European stocks even as they “like” Germany and
Spain, the report said. Australia was raised to “overweight.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        