-- Gold Futures Decline as Rally in Euro Erodes Demand for Alternative Asset
-- Pham-Duy Nguyen
-- 2010-07-08T18:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/gold-resumes-decline-as-rally-in-euro-erodes-demand-for-alternative-asset.html

          
          
             Gold futures fell, heading for a
third straight weekly decline, on speculation that a rebound in
the euro will reduce demand for the precious metal as an
alternative to the currency.  
 The euro rose for a third day against the yen and the
dollar as European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signaled the economic recovery is gaining momentum. The outlook
eased investor concern over Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis,
which sent gold to a record $1,266.50 an ounce on June 21 and to
all-time highs in euros, British pounds and Swiss francs.  
 “As the euro strengthens, more and more of the fear that
had driven investors into gold is being alleviated,” said  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at Lind-Waldock in
Chicago. “The ‘sell euros, buy gold’ trade is being unwound.”  
 Gold futures for August delivery fell $2.80, or 0.2
percent, to $1,196.10 on the Comex in New York. The metal is
down 1 percent for the week, trimming this year’s rally to 9.1
percent.  
 The euro touched an eight-week high against the dollar.
Trichet said the second quarter in the euro region was probably
better than the first. The International Monetary Fund said the
world economy will expand by 4.6 percent in 2010, compared with
a 4.2 percent projection in April.  
 Less Uncertainty  
 “We’re tamping down on uncertainty,” said  David Hightower , a metals analyst at Hightower Futures Research in
Chicago. “There’s less euro uncertainty and less economic
uncertainty. It’s a classic extraction of flight-to-quality
longs.”  
 Investment in the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest exchange-
traded fund backed by bullion, was unchanged yesterday after
dropping for three straight sessions.  
 “Gold looks like it wants to go lower,” said  Leonard Kaplan , the president of Prospector Asset Management in
Evanston, Illinois. “It doesn’t have any upward interest.”  
 Traditionally, gold has moved inversely to the dollar as an
alternative asset.  
 “Gold is in transition,” said  Frank McGhee , the head
dealer at Integrated Brokerage Services in Chicago. “You have a
more traditional gold-and-dollar relationship coming back, but
it’s very fragile.”  
 The metal has failed to close above $1,200 this week, a
signal to some traders that prices are poised to decline
further.  
 “There is disappointment that gold isn’t holding above
$1,200,” said  Frank Lesh , a trader at FuturePath Trading LLC in
Chicago. “We have a lack of interest in gold. We see the shorts
getting out and the longs getting out.”  
 Silver futures for September delivery fell 12.8 cents, or
0.7 percent, to $17.872 an ounce on the Comex.  
 Platinum futures for October delivery slipped $10, or 0.7
percent, to $1,516.40 an ounce on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. Palladium futures for September delivery rose $2.05,
or 0.5 percent, to $444.40 an ounce.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pham-Duy Nguyen  in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        