-- Google Gains on RIM, Apple in U.S. Mobile Software
-- Olga Kharif
-- 2010-07-08T20:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/google-gains-on-rim-apple-in-u-s-mobile-software.html

          
          
             Google Inc. ’s Android operating
system is making gains on Research In Motion Ltd.’s BlackBerry,
Apple Inc.’s iPhone and Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone in the
U.S. smartphone software market, according to ComScore Inc.  
 Google increased its market share by 4 percentage points to
13 percent in the three months ended in May, Reston, Virginia-
based ComScore said today in a statement. RIM’s BlackBerry fell
less than 1 point to 41.7 percent, remaining the market leader.
 Apple  was second, dropping 1 point to 24.4 percent. Google
ranked fourth, behind Microsoft.  
 The bevy of new smartphones being introduced that run on
Android will help Mountain View, California-based Google win
even more market share going forward, analysts said. Among them
are Motorola Inc.’s Droid X, which will be released July 15, and
several models from Samsung Electronics Co.  
 “Android is changing the game,”  Will Stofega , program
director at consultant IDC, said in a phone interview today.
“It’s the sheer proliferation of Android devices.”  
 Google rose $6.36 to $456.56 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The stock has fallen 26 percent
this year. Apple, based in Cupertino, California, fell 58 cents
to $258.09. Waterloo, Ontario-based  RIM  dropped 23 cents to
$49.46, and Microsoft, in Redmond, Washington, declined 11 cents
to $24.41.  
 Google’s Android software might grab Microsoft’s third-
place spot “within the next few months,”  Andrew Lipsman , senior
director of industry analysis at ComScore, said in an interview.
“That’s the trajectory right now.”  
 ‘Feature-Rich’ Phones  
 Apple should regain any share losses within weeks, because
of robust sales of its new iPhone 4, which became available on
June 24, Lipsman said. “We are likely to see Apple and Google
both to continue to consume share.”  
 Among phone makers,  Samsung  gained 1 percentage point of
U.S. market share in the period for a three-month average of
22.4 percent, according to ComScore. LG Electronics Inc.,
Motorola and Nokia Oyj, in second, third and fifth place,
respectively, lost share. RIM, in fourth place, increased its
share by half a percentage point to 8.7 percent.  
 “Samsung has done a very good job bringing feature-rich
phones to market that are priced very well,”  Mark Donovan ,
senior vice president of mobile at ComScore, said in an
interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Olga Kharif  in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        