-- Gordhan Says South Africa's Economic Growth Moderated in Second Quarter
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-07-08T19:45:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/gordhan-says-south-africa-s-economic-growth-moderated-in-second-quarter.html

          
          
             South African economic growth
“moderated somewhat” in the second quarter, though the economy
is still on track to expand more than 2.3 percent in 2010,
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  
 While there has been a “gradual improvement” in economic
conditions and increased spending by foreign visitors during the
soccer World Cup “many South Africans are still facing
hardships,” Gordhan said in a speech in Johannesburg today.  
 Africa’s biggest  economy  grew an annualized 4.6 percent in
the first quarter, boosted by manufacturing and mining exports
and a slow recovery in consumer spending. Growth may now come
under pressure as the European debt crisis threatens to stall a
recovery in a region that buys almost a third of South African
exports.  
 “South Africa’s major economic challenge is to achieve
faster and more sustainable economic growth that translates into
increased job creation, particularly for those that are
unskilled and unemployed,” Gordhan said. “This is not only
crucial to address social imbalances in our society and high
levels of inequality, but is also fundamental to encouraging
investment.”  
 Government, labor unions and businesses must work together
to improve skills and boost jobs, in the same way they
cooperated to pull off the World Cup tournament, Gordhan said.  
 ‘Play as a Team’  
 South Africa has spent 43 billion rand ($5.7 billion)
preparing for the soccer World Cup, building and renovating 10
stadiums, expanding roads and constructing a high-speed rail
service. The government estimates that the tournament, which
ends on July 11, will add 0.4 percentage point to gross domestic
product.  
 If government, business and labor unions “can play as a
team, we can scale up our collective efforts towards the
improvement of all South Africans,” Gordhan said. “What we’ve
learnt from the six years of preparation for the World Cup, is
that if we can focus our minds, we can put an end to poverty and
unemployment in this country.”  
 The economy shed 870,000 jobs last year, pushing the
unemployment rate to 25.2 percent, the highest of 62 countries
tracked by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        