-- Greek Unions Strike After Parliament Approves Papandreou Pension Overhaul
-- Natalie Weeks
-- 2010-07-08T18:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/greek-unions-strike-after-parliament-approves-papandreou-pension-overhaul.html

          
          
             Greek unions disrupted transport and
state services for a second time in as many weeks today after
parliament backed Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s overhaul of
the pension system in a vote that tested the unity of his
socialist government.  
 The plan, which includes lower pension payments and later
retirement, was carried by a majority of votes in the parliament
after an article-by-article debate. A final vote on the entire
bill will be conducted at a later sitting. Papandreou, who
expelled three members of his Pasok party for defying him in a
May vote on austerity measures, won support from his deputies.
Late yesterday, Papandreou secured passage of the bill in
principle, with 159 votes in favor.  
 “Yesterday parliament took a historic decision,” Finance
Minister  George Papaconstantinou  told the chamber before the
vote. “The reform of the pension system, this specific bill and
the bill on pensions in the public sector, is historic not
because it solves the country’s economic problem, not because it
solves the social security problem, not because it was written
somewhere in a memorandum but because it is a right and fair
reform.”  
 The country’s two biggest unions, representing more than 2
million working Greeks, held a rally and march to parliament as
lawmakers continue their debate on the bill. Papandreou
committed himself to the pension overhaul to secure 110 billion
euros ($139 billion) in emergency loans from the European Union
and the International Monetary Fund that allowed Greece to avert
a default on its debt.  
 Skeleton Staff  
 The walkout grounded flights for most of the day, kept
ferries docked and shut down banks, hospitals and news media.
Parliament workers were also striking, with a skeleton staff
assisting today’s pension debate. Protestors ringed the finance
ministry in central Athens preventing employees from entering.  
 “Workers don’t want to strike every week but they can’t
stand by and watch their fundamental rights being obliterated
every week either,” said  Stathis Anestis , the deputy secretary
of the Athens-based General Confederation of Labor, the largest
union for private workers. The law will lead to pensions being
cut by at least 12 percent, he said, compared with a government
estimate of 7 percent.  
 The pension vote followed the passage in May of 30 billion
euros of austerity measures, including wage cuts and tax
increases, that prompted the defection of the three socialist
lawmakers. Their expulsions left Papandreou with 157 seats in
the 300-seat legislature, sparking concern that further
defections might threaten his hold on power less than a year
after he won elections.  
 ‘Political Fatigue’  
 “The dissent within the ruling party is increasing and
political fatigue is starting to emerge,”  Giada Giani , an
economist at Citigroup in London, said before the vote.  
 Papandreou, whose union-backed party won the October
elections on pledges of higher wages, has cut state workers’
salaries and raised sales, fuel and alcohol taxes to combat the
country’s financial crisis. The 58-year-old leader argues the
measures, aimed at reducing a budget deficit of 13.6 percent of
economic output, are needed to stave off a default and restore
investor confidence in Greece.  
 Greece’s central government cash deficit narrowed almost 42
percent in the first six months, Bank of Greece data showed on
July 5, prompting Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  to
signal the country may even beat a target of bringing the
shortfall down to 8.1 percent of gross domestic product. The
European Commission said in a report yesterday that Greece’s
deficit-reduction plan “was broadly on track.”  
 Public Finances  
 Overhauling the pension rules, including curtailing early
retirement and calculating payments over a longer period of
employment, will shore up Greece’s public finances, the European
Union has said.  
 Spending on pensions would reach 24 percent of GDP in 2060
if left unchecked, twice the level of 2007. Concerns about
Greece’s future pension financing have played a part in the
surge in the risk premium investors demand to buy Greek 10-year
debt over comparable German bonds, the Organisation for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in a July 2009 report. That
 spread  reached a euro-era record of 973 basis points on May 7.  
 Greeks are divided over the changes, an opinion poll showed
on July 3. More than 35 percent of 1,002 people surveyed by Kapa
Research for  To Vima newspaper  said the bill was unfair, yet
necessary, and another 14.2 percent fully supported the changes
as “imperative.” Nineteen percent called them “catastrophic”
and 29.6 percent said the bill should be withdrawn.  
 Austerity Measures  
 Today’s walkout is the sixth general strike this year, and
the austerity measures have sparked near-daily protests from
groups ranging from lawyers to dockworkers.  
 Petros Christodoulou , head of Greece’s debt agency, said on
June 22 that protests are a good sign because they show people
are “feeling the pinch” from the cutbacks.  
 Police said about 12,000 people joined marches today. While
attendance at marches has dwindled from a peak on May 5, when
three people died in a bank fire set by protesters, the strikes
are disrupting transport, commerce and tourism, as visitors try
to get to Greek islands for summer holidays.  
 Olympic Airlines scrapped 28 flights today, mainly between
Athens and the islands, and rescheduled another 23. Aegean
Airlines canceled six. All public transport in the capital shut
down and no ferries were able to sail.  
 Tourism contributes 16 percent to the country’s GDP,
according to the  World Travel and Tourism Council , and accounts
for one in five Greek jobs. The WTTC expects growth of 0.9
percent in the industry this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        