-- Guinean Election Result May Lead to a Review of Mining Deals, Eurasia Says
-- Colin McClelland
-- 2010-07-08T11:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/guinean-election-result-may-lead-to-a-review-of-mining-deals-eurasia-says.html

          
          
             The election of a new president in
Guinea, the world’s biggest bauxite exporter, may lead to
reviews of multibillion-dollar deals with companies including
 Rio Tinto Group  and  United Co. Rusal Plc , Eurasia Group said.  
 Cellou Dalein Diallo  of the Union of Democratic Forces of
Guinea is favored to beat  Alpha Conde  of the Rally of the
Guinean People in a run-off vote in the West African country on
July 18, Rolake Akinola, Africa analyst at New York-based
Eurasia, said in an e-mailed research note yesterday.  
 Twenty-four candidates competed in the first round of
elections on June 27, a year and a half after army Captain
 Moussa Dadis Camara  seized power following the death of former
President  Lansana Conte , who ruled for two decades. Guinea
hasn’t had a democratic transfer of power since it gained
independence from France in 1958.  
 The winner of the second round of voting, whether Diallo or
Conde, will probably stop the practice of “arbitrary and erratic
presidential decrees enacting and annulling contracts,” seek to
normalize relations with mining investors, institutionalize
mining laws and scrutinize existing deals, Akinola said.  
 “A planned review of contracts is likely to create some
initial losers, as deals that may have benefitted from opaque
decision-making under previous regimes face the risk of
renegotiation,” she said.  
 Deals being reviewed include Rio’s $2.9 billion accord with
 Chinalco , China’s biggest producer of aluminum, to develop the
Simandou iron-ore project in southeast Guinea. In December 2008,
the Guinean government told London-based Rio to hand over part
of Simandou to Guernsey-based BSG Resources Ltd.  
 Remaining Rights  
 Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, bought a
$2.5 billion stake at Simandou from Israeli-owned BSG Resources.
Rio maintains it owns the rights to the entire concession and
the transitional government of President  Sekouba Konate  last
month threatened to strip Rio of its remaining rights to the
concession.  
 “It is likely that the company believes it can gain a
fairer hearing under a new administration,” Akinola said. “This
could create problems for Brazilian mining giant Vale.”  
 Last year, Moscow-based  United Co. Rusal , the world’s
largest aluminum producer, was ordered by the government to
return a bauxite and aluminum complex at Friguia, in central
Guinea, after a court ruled that its purchase was invalid.  
 “The potential for a new configuration of political power
after polls could undo recent attempts by Rusal to soften
Guinea’s stance,” Akinola said. Guinea alleges Rusal owes $860
million in taxes, she said.  
 Bauxite Reserves  
 Guinea holds as much as half of the world’s reserves of
bauxite, used to make aluminum, more than 4 billion tons of
“high-grade” iron ore, “significant” diamond and gold
deposits, and uranium, according to the U.S. State Department’s
 website .  
 A more stable mining environment in the wake of the
elections may help double bauxite exports to 20 million metric
tons next year, Akinola said.  
 Guinea has about 10.3 million people, according to the
African Development Bank. Per capita income is less than half
the sub-Saharan African average of $861, according to the World
Bank, and the country ranks 170th out of 182 countries on the
UN’s  Human Development Index , which measures life expectancy,
literacy and gross domestic product per capita.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Colin McClelland  in Toronto 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        