-- Gulf Drilling Moratorium May Wreak Havoc on State Finances, Landrieu Says
-- Darrell Preston
-- 2010-07-08T16:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/gulf-drilling-moratorium-may-wreak-havoc-on-state-finances-landrieu-says.html

          
          
             A Gulf of Mexico moratorium on deep-
water drilling put in place after BP Plc’s oil spill may cause
“almost unfathomable” damage to state and local government
finances, U.S.  Senator Mary Landrieu  said in a court filing.  
 The six-month ban imposed by President  Barack Obama  would
cut traffic on Louisiana Highway 1, a roadway to drilling launch
points, forcing the state to make up $39 million of toll revenue
for bond debt, according to the friend-of-the-court brief filed
July 2 by Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat, and business groups in
Gulf Coast states.  
 Loss of wages will put a “severe burden” on the resources
of state governments, which are already struggling with cleanup
costs resulting from the spill, the brief said. In  Louisiana 
320,000 direct and indirect jobs depend on drilling, as do
engineers in Houston, the filing said.  
 “If one magnifies the impact across the remaining Gulf
Coast states, including  Texas , the havoc it could wreak in these
communities is almost unfathomable,” the parties said in the
brief. “The moratorium essentially cuts the legs from under
Gulf Coast communities, which are struggling to survive.”  
 Louisiana and its parishes, which are similar to counties
in other states, might lose $8 million to $15 million of tax
revenue a month, the filing said.  
 Suspension of deep-water drilling may idle 33 floating
drilling rigs for as long as six months, putting as many as
46,000 direct jobs on the rigs at risk and threatening to reduce
income and sales taxes, according to the Baton Rouge-based
 Louisiana Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association .  
 Reduced Payrolls  
 The moratorium may reduce local payrolls by nearly $2
billion, according to the filing. In Louisiana oil and gas
drilling generates $70 billion of economic activity, including
$12.7 billion of household earnings, or 15.4 percent of the
state’s total, the filing said.  
 Louisiana Treasurer  John Neely Kennedy  has warned that at
some point state and local governments will begin feeling
diminished revenue because of the moratorium, said his
spokeswoman, Sarah Mulhearn, in an e-mail.  
 The brief was filed in response to the federal government
seeking to postpone a ruling delaying a court order by U.S.
District Judge  Martin Feldman  that scrapped the six-month
drilling ban imposed May 27 after the explosion and sinking of
the Deepwater Horizon oil rig in April.  
 Court Hearing  
 A three-judge appeals panel is expected to hear arguments
from the U.S. government today on whether the six-month
moratorium on deep-water drilling in the Gulf should be
reinstated after a lower court threw out the ban.  
 Obama said the moratorium, covering waters deeper than 500
feet (152 meters), was needed to give a presidential commission
time to study offshore operations safety as the oil spill became
the largest in U.S. history. Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc. and
other oil service companies had sued U.S. regulators, including
Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar , arguing the drilling
suspension would cause them irreparable economic harm.  
 Hiring in tourism-related areas is down in the Gulf Coast
region as vacation cancellations have risen and the number of
bookings fell from prior years, said  Michael Chriszt , assistant
vice president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, who based
his findings so far on anecdotal reports.  
 “It’s going to have a pretty significant impact on sales
taxes and tourism in those areas,” said Chriszt, in a phone
interview. “That could have a spillover into state revenue
numbers.”  
 For now, some municipal bond investors say they are
reviewing risk to holdings on a case-by-case basis.  
 “We’re trying to understand the scope of the disaster,”
said Ronald Schwartz, who helps oversee $3 billion of municipal
bonds as a managing director in the Orlando office of Atlanta-
based StableRiver Capital Management. “We’re concerned and
we’re watching.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        