-- Gulf Drilling Ban Should Be Restored, U.S. Lawyers Tell Court of Appeals
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-07-08T15:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/gulf-drilling-ban-should-be-restored-u-s-lawyers-tell-court-of-appeals.html

          
          
             A three-judge appeals panel will hear
arguments from the U.S. government today on whether a six-month
moratorium on deep-water drilling in the Gulf of Mexico should
be reinstated after a lower court judge threw out the ban.  
 The government is seeking to delay an order by U.S.
District Judge  Martin Feldman  that scrapped the six-month
drilling moratorium, imposed May 27 after the explosion and
sinking of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig in April.  
 Feldman’s June 22 ruling came in a lawsuit against U.S.
regulators by oil service companies claiming the suspension
would cause them irreparable economic harm. If the appeals court
refuses to stay Feldman’s order, it may mean a quick return to
drilling in the Gulf, said  Anthony Sabino , a law professor who
specializes in complex litigation and oil-and-gas law.  
 “Drilling will begin, not necessarily immediately and not
necessarily 110 percent,” Sabino, a professor at St. John’s
University in New York, said. “You’d see some of the braver
souls go out there. They’d think, ‘We’ve got a green light
now.’”  
 The U.S. is developing a new drilling-suspension plan,
Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  said last month after Feldman
rejected the six-month moratorium. If the 5th Circuit stay’s
Feldman’s order, the current ban still applies.  
 Spill Risk  
 The six-month ban’s potential economic effect is outweighed
by the risk of another spill, lawyers for the Interior
Department argued in court papers filed before a hearing set for
this afternoon in New Orleans.  
 “If in Interior’s judgment, drilling poses a threat of
serious or irreparable environmental harm, the public interest
in avoiding that threat would trump economic considerations in
the short term,” the government said in a July 6 filing.  
 The Interior Department asked the appeals court to stay
Feldman’s order and keep the moratorium in place long enough for
regulators to appeal.  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and more than a dozen other
offshore service and supply companies sued U.S. regulators,
including Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar , last month,
seeking to block the moratorium.  
 They were joined by Louisiana’s Governor  Bobby Jindal  and
Attorney General  Buddy Caldwell , who said the drilling
suspension is turning an “environmental disaster into an
economic catastrophe.”  
 Obama’s Position  
 President  Barack Obama  said the moratorium, covering waters
deeper than 500 feet, is needed to give a presidential
commission time to study offshore operations safety as the BP
Plc oil spill became the largest in U.S. history.  
 The companies claim the blanket suspension fails to
distinguish between firms that adhere to modern safety practices
and BP, which has been accused of utilizing risky drilling
procedures with the well that blew out.  
 “The industry leader is being treated the same way as the
industry laggard,”  John Cooney , Hornbeck’s lawyer, said at the
lower-court hearing.  
 Regulators have already imposed stricter requirements for
oil-spill response, blowout prevention equipment, and design and
casing standards, the  Independent Petroleum Association of
America  said in court papers filed in support of Hornbeck.  
 Safety Standards  
 The tougher drilling standards have “already largely, and
perhaps completely, rectified the safety concerns” that led
regulators to suspend deep-water drilling, Anne Rodgers, the
IPAA’s lawyer, said in court papers.  
 U.S. Senator  Mary Landrieu  of Louisiana, the  U.S. Chamber
of Commerce  and regional business organizations joined the suit
opposing the moratorium.  
 They claim a ban would have a “devastating ripple effect”
costing the region “billions of dollars and tens of thousands
of jobs.”  
 “Every day the moratorium remains in effect, a way of life
comes closer to disappearing,” lawyer Ted Cruz said in court
papers on behalf of Landrieu and the business interests. “The
moratorium essentially cuts the legs from under Gulf Coast
communities which are struggling to survive.”  
 Five environmental groups joined the case in support of the
government’s moratorium. They said protecting the Gulf Coast’s
tourism, recreation and seafood industries is equally important
to safeguarding jobs imperiled by the ban.  
 “Interior had to take immediate action to minimize the
risk of another spill,” Salazar said in court papers filed July
6. “The stakes are even higher now that it is hurricane
season.”  
 “Tourism and recreation comprised approximately 71 percent
of the direct employment in the Gulf region’s 2003 ocean
economy, while oil and gas accounted for 3 percent,” the
environmental groups said in court papers, citing the latest
available economic statistics.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The appeal case is 10-30585, 5th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  


        