-- Li & Fung Climbs on Acquisitions Expected to Generate $1 Billion in Sales
-- Frank Longid
-- 2010-07-09T09:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/li-fung-may-rise-on-paying-140-million-for-cosmetics-fashion-companies.html

          
          
             Li & Fung Ltd. , the biggest supplier
to retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , rose the most in
five months in Hong Kong after announcing acquisitions and
agreements that may generate $1 billion in sales next year.  
 Li & Fung  rose  7.4 percent to HK$37.80, the most since Jan.
29 and the best performance among Hang Seng Index stocks. The
company bought three health-and-beauty and fashion businesses
for $140 million and entered four licensing deals, it said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  
 “Cumulative  sales  expected is more than $1 billion for
these announcements,” President  Bruce Rockowitz  said in a phone
interview. One of the acquired companies, Jackel Group, supplies
LVMH  Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA  and  L’Oreal SA , he said.  
 Li & Fung  has about $800 million left in its acquisition
fund and the announcements are “the tip of the iceberg,”
Rockowitz said. The outsourcer has been acquiring rivals and
entering into agreements, including one signed with Wal-Mart in
January that may generate $2 billion of additional revenue in
the first year.  
 “The impact on 2011  net income  looks to be at least 7
percent and this will give ammunition to the bulls on the
 stock ,” said  Matt Marsden , a consumer-sector equity researcher
at Samsung Securities (Asia) Ltd. in Hong Kong.  
 The business generated by the deals announced yesterday
will have margins equal to the company’s U.S. “onshore
business,” or about 6 percent to 8 percent, said Marsden,
citing information given by  Li & Fung  on a conference call for
analysts. He has a “sell”  rating  on the company’s  shares .  
 Share Performance  
 Li & Fung , which also supplies  Kohl’s Corp.  and  Target
Corp. , has risen 17 percent this year, the best performer on the
city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index . The index has declined 6.8
percent this year.  
 The deals may boost  Li & Fung  profit next year by at least
HK$468 million ($60 million), according to Bloomberg
calculations using data provided by Marsden. Projected net
income for the company in 2011 is HK$6.42 billion, according to
the average of 10 analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Li & Fung has set a sales target of $20 billion this year.
Rockowitz didn’t comment on whether it would meet the target.  
 The company,  founded  as a porcelain and silk trader in
southern China in 1906 near the end of the Qing dynasty, derived
64 percent of last year’s HK$104.5 billion sales from the U.S.  
 Wal-Mart Agreement  
 It has  forecast  revenue of $3 billion this year for its U.S.
onshore business, under which the company sources and imports
goods for clients. The rest of its sales are generated by
charging a fee for organizing factories and raw materials to
make consumer products such as clothes, toys and furniture.  
 The Wal-Mart agreement signed in January will “contribute
to the bottom line” by next year, Rockowitz said, declining to
be more specific.  
 Li & Fung ’s first-half earnings “will be strong but they
expect growth to slow in the second half of the year as Europe
is still in recession,” Marsden said, citing the company.
“They will add costs in the second half to build up business.
They’re building up their Wal-Mart business this year.”  
 Apart from Jackel, which has packaging, fragrance and
personal care businesses,  Li & Fung  said it bought HTP Group, a
jeanswear company and Cipriani Accessories Inc., which it
described as a designer, distributor and importer of accessories
in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. Jackel and HTP are based in Hong
Kong.  
 Economic Recovery  
 The outsourcer also entered into a partnership with fashion
stylist Rachel Zoe to create women’s clothes, shoes, bags,
jewelry and accessories. It expanded a licensing agreement with
sportswear marketer TapouT and formed a company with Star
Branding alongside partners that include  Tommy  and  Andy Hilfiger .
Li & Fung also signed a licensing agreement with  Sean John , the
brand started by rap artist Sean “Diddy” Combs.  
 About 40 percent of the $1 billion new revenue will be
generated by the acquired companies with the four agreements
generating the rest, Marsden said, citing information given on
the conference call.  
 While  Li & Fung  is “concerned” about the economies of the
U.S. and Europe, Rockowitz said “it’s definitely better today
than it was three months ago, or four months ago.”  
 “It’s not going to be a robust recovery, but it is a
recovery,” he said.  
 While Li & Fung’s  net income  last year rose 39 percent to
HK$3.37 billion, sales fell 6 percent to HK$104.5 billion, the
first annual decline in at least 18 years.  
 The outsourcer’s biggest  shareholders  are billionaire
brothers  Victor  and  William Fung .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        