-- Europe Sovereign-Debt, Banking Risks Threaten Global Stability, IMF Warns
-- Sandrine Rastello
-- 2010-07-08T06:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/imf-says-european-sovereign-bank-risks-threaten-global-economic-stability.html

          
          
             The International Monetary Fund urged
European Union policy makers to take further “decisive” steps
to combat a sovereign-debt crisis that it said poses a threat to
the world financial system.  
 “Recent global stability gains are threatened by a
confluence of sovereign and banking risks in the euro area that,
without continued and concert attention, could spill over to
other regions,” the IMF said in an update released yesterday of
its Global Financial Stability Report.  
 The fund urged policy makers to reduce  budget  deficits,
formulate plans to wind down or recapitalize weak banks, and
make “fully operational” a rescue fund to backstop the euro.
It also said the European Central Bank should step up purchases
of government debt on the secondary market.  
 Euro-area governments are in the process of approving a
nearly $1 trillion Financial Stability Facility designed to end
speculation that the 16-nation bloc might break apart. Under the
loan package, governments pledged 440 billion euros ($557
billion) in loans or guarantees, with 60 billion euros more in
loans from the EU’s budget and as much as 250 billion euros from
the IMF.  
 “Further decisive follow-up is needed,” the fund’s report
said, “in order to strengthen confidence in the financial
system and ensure continuation of the economic recovery.”  
 In a separate report, the IMF raised its forecast for
global growth this year to 4.6 percent from 4.2 percent because
of a stronger-than-expected first half, while warning that
market turmoil has increased the risks to the recovery.  
 Growth Outlook  
 For the euro area, the IMF kept its forecast for 2010
unchanged at 1 percent and reduced its 2011 outlook 0.2
percentage point to 1.3 percent in revisions to its World
Economic Outlook.  
 In its Global Financial Stability Report, the fund, formed
after World War II to lend to governments in crisis, said that
euro-area countries “must make further credible progress on
fiscal deficits, together with better strategies for public debt
management.”  
 German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet yesterday
approved a four-year package of budget cuts, stepping up
pressure on fellow European governments to reduce debt that
risks tearing apart the euro area. Merkel says the cuts,
equivalent to about 2.7 percent of gross domestic product in
Europe’s biggest economy last year, aren’t deep enough to
threaten the recovery.  
 Spain’s top credit ranking earlier this month was placed on
review for a possible downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service.
The difference, or spread, between 10-year Spanish notes and
equivalent German bunds was 203 basis points yesterday, close to
the 14-year peak of 221 basis points on June 16.  
 Bond Purchases  
 The ECB has embarked on an unprecedented program of bond
purchases in an effort to contain rising yields in debt-strapped
countries, and has reintroduced some of the non-standard
measures it employed during last year’s financial crisis, such
as unlimited longer-term lending to banks.  
 “Markets are not yet convinced of the central bank’s
commitment to scaling up purchases if necessary to prevent a
further deterioration of market functioning,” the IMF said.  
 A lack of details about banks’ exposure to sovereign debt
has spurred interbank funding strains, the IMF said, adding that
“euro area banks are still hoarding liquidity and putting those
funds in the ECB’s deposit facility.”  
 EU regulators are carrying out stress tests on 91 banks to
examine whether they can withstand a shrinking economy and a
drop in government bond values. Regulators are counting on the
tests on firms including Madrid-based Banco Santander SA and
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG to reassure investors that
banks have enough capital to withstand a debt default by a
European country.  
 ‘Important Step’  
 The IMF welcomed the tests as “a very important step,”
while cautioning that disclosure of the results must be
accompanied by a plan outlining how authorities would deal with
a bank that doesn’t have enough capital.  
 Unlike the U.S. government, EU governments haven’t said if
they’ll provide cash to banks that fail the tests. European
lenders had $2.29 trillion at risk in Greece, Italy, Portugal
and Spain at the end of 2009, including loans to governments,
according to the Bank for International Settlements.  
 Europeans need a clear plan on how they would deal with
weak banks, the IMF said.  
 “These banks are exacerbating the current strains in
funding markets, and a more comprehensive mechanism for
resolving, restructuring, or recapitalizing institutions is
needed,” it said in the report.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Jim Bianco, president of Bianco Research LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for U.S. stocks.
     Bianco, speaking from Chicago, also discusses his investment strategy, stress tests for European banks, and the U.S. housing market. European Union regulators are carrying out stress tests on 91 banks, accounting for 65 percent of the area’s banking industry, to examine whether they can withstand a shrinking economy and a drop in government bond values. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
