-- IMF Raises 2010 Growth Estimate, Sees Greater Risks
-- Sandrine Rastello
-- 2010-07-08T06:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/imf-raises-2010-growth-estimate-sees-greater-risks-to-recovery.html

          
          
             The International Monetary Fund
raised its forecast for global growth this year, reflecting a
stronger-than-expected first half, while warning that financial-
market turmoil has increased the risks to the recovery.  
 The world economy will expand 4.6 percent in 2010, the
biggest gain since 2007, compared with an April projection of
4.2 percent, the Washington-based fund said in revisions
yesterday to its World Economic Outlook. Growth next year is
projected to be 4.3 percent, unchanged from the April forecast.  
 Canada and the U.S. are leading advanced economies out of
the worst recession since World War II, trailed by euro-area
countries that need additional measures to boost confidence in
their banks, the fund said. Faster expansions in Brazil, China
and India are helping to protect the global recovery as a
sovereign-debt crisis weighs on Europe, the IMF said.  
 “The overarching policy challenge is to restore financial-
market confidence without choking the recovery,” the IMF report
said. “The new forecasts hinge on implementation of policies to
rebuild confidence and stability, particularly in the euro
area.”  
 The euro has fallen against the dollar in each of the past
seven months on concern nation including Greece and Spain might
default on their debt. The  MSCI AC World Index  of stocks has
dropped for three straight months, and the Markit iTraxx SovX
Western Europe Index of default swaps insuring against losses on
debt of 15 governments last month reached an all-time high.  
 ‘Cloud’ Over Outlook  
 “Recent turbulence in financial markets -- reflecting a
drop in confidence about fiscal sustainability, policy responses,
and future growth prospects -- has cast a cloud over the
outlook,” the IMF report said.  
 Fiscal woes in advanced economies may curtail the flow of
capital to emerging markets,  Olivier Blanchard , the IMF’s chief
economist, said at a press briefing today in Hong Kong.
Blanchard said the reversal will prove “temporary” in the
aftermath of the European crisis, with a resumption of flows
over time.  
 European Union regulators are carrying out stress tests on
91 banks to examine whether they can withstand a shrinking
economy and a drop in government bond values. Regulators are
counting on the tests on firms including Madrid-based Banco
Santander SA and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG to reassure
investors that banks have enough capital to withstand a debt
default by a European country.  
 Impact on Lending  
 While there’s “little evidence of negative spillovers”
from the financial stress, some countries are facing “high
levels of public debt, unemployment, and in some cases,
constrained bank lending,” the report said.  
 The IMF urged governments to commit to implementing
“credible” plans to lower their deficits over the medium term,
including the adoption of binding, multiyear targets. Still, the
developed economies don’t need to start fiscal tightening before
2011, it said.  
 The IMF predicted growth of 2.6 percent this year in
advanced economies, more than the 2.3 percent seen in April. The
fund cut its 2011 growth forecasts for every Group of Seven
industrial nation except the U.S.  
 The U.S. economy will expand 3.3 percent this year, more
than the 3.1 percent predicted in April, and 2.9 percent next
year, the IMF said.  
 Japan Outlook  
 Japan’s gross domestic product will increase 2.4 percent in
2010, more than the 1.9 percent forecast in April, before
slowing to 1.8 percent growth next year, the fund said.  
 For the euro area, the IMF kept its forecast for 2010
unchanged at 1 percent and reduced its 2011 outlook 0.2
percentage point to 1.3 percent.  
 Europe’s debt crisis, which policy makers sought to contain
with an emergency 750 billion-euro ($949 billion) aid program,
prompted Group of 20 leaders last month to commit to deficit-and
debt-reduction goals over the next six years.  
 Advanced G-20 economies will try to halve deficits by 2013
and start to stabilize their debt-to- output  ratios by 2016,
leaders said at the end of their June meeting in Toronto. At the
same time, they said nations can move at their own pace and
pledged to fulfill existing stimulus plans.  
 Monetary policy in advanced economies can remain “highly
accommodative for the foreseeable future,” because inflation is
expected to remain “subdued,” helping mitigate the effects of
fiscal consolidation on growth, the IMF said in the report.  
 Monetary Policy  
 If risks materialized in economies with central bank policy
rates close to zero, officials may need to expand their  balance
sheets  again to ease monetary conditions, it said.  
 In addition, the 16-country euro region needs “well-
coordinated policies to rebuild confidence,” the IMF report
said. The steps include making its rescue program operational,
ending uncertainties about banks and ensuring financial
institutions have adequate capital buffers, the fund said.  
 The growth forecast for emerging markets was raised to 6.8
percent, from 6.3 percent in April, the IMF said. The fastest
growth rate will be China’s 10.5 percent, followed by India’s
9.4 percent and Brazil’s 7.1 percent, the fund said. Growth
forecasts for 2010 in all three of those countries and Russia --
the four known as the BRIC nations -- were increased.  
 China Slowdown  
 In China, strong gains in consumption and investment have
led to a 0.5 percentage point boost to the 2010 growth forecast
compared with the April estimate,  Jorg Decressin , head of the
fund’s world economic studies division, told reporters in Hong
Kong today. In the second half, China’s expansion will moderate,
with the slowdown carrying over into 2011, he said.  
 Brazil’s forecast had the biggest revision higher in
yesterday’s report, to 7.1 percent this year, from a 5.5 percent
prediction in April, the IMF report showed. Mexico’s economy
will increase 4.5 percent this year, more than the 4.2 percent
expansion seen in April, the IMF said.  
 Monetary policy requirements vary in emerging economies,
where inflation is expected to accelerate to 6.25 percent this
year before slowing to 5 percent in 2011, the IMF said.  
 Raising rates in countries with “excessive” external
surpluses should be accompanied by a stronger exchange rate, the
fund said. Countries should also be ready to a “swift policy
reversal” if risks materialize, it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Dominique Strauss-Kahn of the IMF  
                       
                         
                           Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Dominique Strauss-Kahn, managing director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), speaks during a news conference at the German federal chancellory in Berlin. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Dominique Strauss-Kahn, managing director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), speaks during a news conference at the German federal chancellory in Berlin. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Paul Ramscar, director wealth management at Financial Partners, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for global economy.
     Ramscar also discusses the outlook for gold, and U.S. and China stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
