-- IMF Says India's Economy  May Expand at Fastest Pace in Four Years in 2010
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-07-08T09:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/imf-says-india-s-economy-may-expand-at-fastest-pace-in-four-years-in-2010.html

          
          
             India’s economic growth this year may
accelerate at the fastest pace since 2007 as strong domestic
demand counters the impact of the European debt crisis, the
International Monetary Fund said.  
 The $1.2 trillion economy may expand 9.4 percent in the
fiscal year to March, compared with an April estimate of 8.8
percent gain, the Washington-based fund said yesterday in its
World Economic Outlook. Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  has
said gross domestic product may grow about 8.5 percent this year.  
 “The large domestic demand bases” in nations including
India, China and Indonesia “could provide a cushion to growth”
in the event of external demand shocks emanating from Europe,
the IMF said. “Economic growth is accelerating in India as
robust corporate profits and favorable financing conditions fuel
investment,” the IMF said.  
 Accelerating growth and faster price gains in emerging
economies may prompt central banks to further raise interest
rates, it said. The Reserve Bank of India on July 2 boosted the
 reverse repurchase  and repurchase rates by a quarter point each,
to 4 percent and 5.5 percent, after inflation accelerated 10.16
percent, near a 17-month high. The bank is next scheduled to
announce its monetary policy decision on July 27.  
 “Some of the larger, fast-growing emerging economies,
faced with rising inflation or asset price pressures, have
appropriately tightened monetary conditions,” the IMF statement
said.  
 China in May ordered banks to set aside more deposits as
reserves for the third time this year to cool a record credit
expansion that has sparked the risk of asset bubbles in the
world’s third-largest economy.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        