-- Rupee Strengthens Most in Two Weeks on India Growth, Interest-Rate Premium
-- V. Ramakrishnan
-- 2010-07-08T11:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/india-rupee-strengthens-most-in-two-weeks-on-growth-interest-rate-premium.html

          
          
             India’s rupee advanced the most in
two weeks on speculation the nation’s interest-rate advantage
and accelerating economic growth will draw capital from overseas.  
 The currency rebounded from its lowest level in a month
after the International Monetary Fund revised its 2010 estimate
for the South Asian economy’s growth to 9.4 percent, from 8.8
percent predicted in April. The  central bank  increased  policy
rates  last week for the third time this year to curb inflation.  
 “All domestic fundamentals are in favor of a rupee
rally,” said  J. Moses Harding , executive vice president at
IndusInd Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “The widening interest-rate
differential with developed countries should also support the
currency.”  
 The rupee rose 0.4 percent to 46.866 per dollar as of the
5:00 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Harding predicted the currency will strengthen toward
45.50 in the next two months.  
 Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao last week increased
benchmark interest rates by 25 basis points after wholesale
price inflation accelerated to 10.16 percent in May. The
 reverse-repurchase rate  is now 4 percent and the repurchase rate
5.5 percent. The next scheduled policy meeting is July 27.  
 “The large domestic demand bases” in nations including
India, China and Indonesia “could provide a cushion to growth”
in the event of external demand shocks emanating from Europe,
the IMF said. “Economic growth is accelerating in India as
robust corporate profits and favorable financing conditions fuel
investment.”  
 The improving outlook for U.S. consumer spending also
favored the rupee today as it signals a global recovery, Harding
said. U.S. retail sales are increasing at the fastest pace in
four years, the International Council of Shopping Centers trade
group said ahead of its June report due today.  
 Offshore forwards indicated the Indian currency will trade
at 47.47 to the dollar in three months, compared with
expectations of 47.72 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy
or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        