-- Islamic Veil Ban Sought in Europe Has Little Support in U.S., Poll Shows
-- Peter S. Green
-- 2010-07-08T21:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/islamic-veil-ban-sought-in-europe-has-little-support-in-u-s-poll-shows.html

          
          
             Islamic veils that reveal only the
eyes of women wearing them should be banned, a large majority of
the French public surveyed say as a vote nears in parliament.  
 A similar sentiment is echoed by those surveyed in Germany,
Britain and Spain, a poll run by the Washington, D.C.-based Pew
Research Center shows. In the U.S., the survey shows, sentiment
runs the other way, with opposition to scarf laws.  
 The  Pew Global Attitudes Project  interviewed 24,790 people
in 22 nations between April 7 and May 8. In France, the poll
found, support for a ban on full veils for Muslim women stood at
82 percent. In the U.S., opposition stood at 65 percent.  
 “Majorities across the political spectrum” in France,
Germany, Britain and Spain support a ban, the survey’s authors
said in a statement. In the U.S., opposition to a ban cut almost
equally across political, ideological and gender lines, said
Juliana Horowitz, a senior researcher for the survey, funded by
the Pew Charitable Trusts in Washington.  
 The lower house of the  French parliament  is scheduled to
vote July 13 on banning the niqab, which covers the head,
revealing only the eyes, and the burqa, which covers the entire
body leaving an opening for the eyes. The ban would prevent
wearing of the veils in public places, including schools,
hospitals and government offices.  
 France’s top administrative court has issued two advisory
opinions warning that the  European Court of Human Rights  might
overturn the ban, saying it violates rights of personal freedom.  
 Fines Sought  
 The proposed law calls for a 150 euro ($185) fine for
wearing a full veil, though fines won’t be imposed for the first
six months while the government pushes an education campaign to
persuade women to expose their faces in public.  
 French President  Nicholas Sarkozy  said in May that the
legislation isn’t aimed at French Muslims.  
 “We are an old nation built around a certain idea of human
dignity and particularly the dignity of women, and a certain
idea of living together,” he said.  
 About 1,900 Muslim women in the country wear  burqas or
niqabs , according to Interior Minister  Brice Hortefeux . Most of
them are under the age of 30, about three-quarters are French
citizens and half live in the Paris area.  
 The French parliament unanimously adopted a non-binding
resolution in May condemning Islamic veils that cover the face
as contrary to the nation’s values. Some members of parliament
have argued that a ban should be limited to government and
administrative buildings.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        