-- Israel `Relatively Resilient,' Offers Opportunities, Leumi's Dattner Says
-- Ronit Goodman
-- 2010-07-08T10:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/israel-relatively-resilient-offers-opportunities-leumi-s-dattner-says.html

          
          
             Israeli banks, pharmaceuticals and
telecommunications offer “opportunities” for investors as the
stocks prove “relatively resilient” to outflows from an MSCI
reclassification, according to Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd.  
 “The Israeli market has been relatively resilient as a
result of a supporting macro environment and, to some extent,
the emergence of the natural gas sector,” analyst  Gil Dattner 
wrote in a monthly strategy report from Leumi’s Capital Markets
Division dated July 7.  
 The benchmark  TA-25 Index  lost 6.2 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with an 8.3 percent decline for the
 MSCI World Index . The Israeli index reached a record in April
led by shares of Delek Group Ltd. and its partners in the Tamar
and Leviathan natural gas finds off the country’s coast.  
 Bank of Governor  Stanley Fischer  said July 1 there is
concern growth this year may be below the central bank’s
official 3.7 percent forecast on lower than expected export
data. Foreigners sold a net $790 million of Israeli shares
traded in Tel Aviv in May following sales of $250 million April,
partially reflecting portfolio adjustments because of Israel’s
May 26 MSCI reclassification to developed market status, the
central bank said July 5.  
 Domestic banks  offer value with low risk, Dattner wrote,
saying  Israel Discount Bank Ltd. , the country’s fourth-largest
lender, “stands out as one of the cheapest stocks in the
sector” after its price to book discount to peers  Bank Hapoalim
Ltd.,  Bank Leumi and  Mizrahi Tefahot Bank Ltd.,  widened to 35
percent from an average of 23 percent over the past five years.  
 Excessive Discount  
 “Discount will continue to trade at a discount to the
Israeli banking sector, however the current discount has widened
excessively, and we expect it to close,” he wrote.  
 In the pharmaceuticals group, Dattner said Perrigo Co., the
maker of over-the-counter drugs, trades at an unjustified
premium to  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. , the world’s
largest generic drugmaker, and the sector. He recommended a
combined strategy of buying Teva and selling Perrigo.  
 In the telecommunications space, Dattner recommended  Bezeq
Israeli Telecommunication Corp.  as “a defensive share in a
defensive market” with an expected 2010 dividend yield of 9.8
percent.  
 Discount shares climbed 2.2 percent to 6.648 shekels at
12:25 p.m. in Tel Aviv. Teva lost 0.6 percent to 206.50 shekels
and Perrigo slipped 0.1 percent to 219.70 shekels. Bezeq gained
0.3 percent to 8.779 shekels.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronit Goodman  in Tel Aviv at 
 rgoodman9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        