-- Israel Corp. Seeks $750 Million Peru Hydroelectric Financing for Plant
-- Alex Emery
-- 2010-07-08T20:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/israel-corp-seeks-750-million-peru-hydroelectric-financing-for-plant.html

          
          
             Israel Corp. , a holding company with
stakes in energy and chemicals, said it aims to obtain $750
million in loans next year for a 400-megawatt hydroelectric
project in Peru to meet surging power demand.  
 Kallpa Generacion SA , the largest gas-fired electricity
generator in Peru, plans to build the Cerro del Aguila plant in
the central highlands by 2015, Javier Garcia Burgos, who heads
Israel’s unit, said in an interview in Lima yesterday. The World
Bank’s International Finance Corp., the Inter-American
Development Bank and Caracas-based Corporacion Andina de Fomento
may provide the project’s “core financing,” he said.  
 “We’ve already tapped the bond market, so if they provide
any sources of funds it will be marginal,” said Garcia Burgos,
40. “Because of the large amount of cash required, it looks
more like a multilateral or credit financing deal.”  
 The expansion is part of $10 billion in energy investments
expected by Peru’s  Energy Ministry , which seeks to double
electricity generation to 10,000 megawatts by 2021 to meet
rising demand. Peru’s power demand may grow 8 percent annually
over the next five years driven by new copper mines, as well as
gas and petrochemical projects, Garcia Burgos said.  
 Lima-based Kallpa is also working on a $400 million upgrade
of its 570-megawatt Chilca plant that will expand capacity by 50
percent, he said. The unit, which is 25 percent-owned by Lima-
based chemical producer  Quimica del Pacifico SA , has raised $477
million on capital markets since 2006.  
 Gas Contracts  
 Kallpa lined up sufficient natural-gas supply for its plant
from a Pluspetrol SA-led group, said Garcia Burgos, a San Diego
State University graduate. Charlotte, North Carolina-based Duke
Energy Corp. has yet to arrange gas supply for its $100 million,
192 megawatt power plant inaugurated in May, while Ashmore
Energy International Ltd. shelved plant plans because of a lack
of gas.  
 Kallpa, whose 30 clients include  Freeport-McMoran Copper &
Gold Inc .’s Cerro Verde copper mine and electricity distributors
Luz del Sur SAA and Edelnor SA, has pre-sold power from its
Chilca plant expansion, Garcia Burgos said. The expansion was
financed by a $172 million bond sale and a $105 million
syndicated loan led by Bank of Nova Scotia.  
 Israel Corp., which acquired units in six Latin American
countries from CDC Globeleq in 2007, will continue to operate
its 220-megawatt Cia. Boliviana de Energia Electrica SA unit
even as Bolivian President Evo Morales nationalizes power plants
owned by GDF Suez SA and Rurelec Plc.  
 “Bolivia is the most difficult country we operate in,”
said Garcia Burgos. “But our unit has been private for 85
years, so we don’t expect the government to attempt
nationalization.”  
 Israel Corp. rose 2 percent to 2,500 shekels today in Tel
Aviv.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        