-- HIV-Blocking Antibodies Stop 90% of Strains in Study
-- Tom Randall
-- 2010-07-08T21:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/hiv-blocking-antibodies-stop-9-in-10-strains-of-aids-virus-in-u-s-study.html

          
          
             An AIDS vaccine may be one step
closer after scientists found antibodies in the blood of a
patient that kill more than 90 percent of HIV strains, according
to a study in the online version of the journal Science.  
 The two proteins, which block HIV by attaching to an area
of the virus it uses to enter healthy cells, are the most
powerful and broadly effective yet against the myriad viruses
that make HIV the world’s most deadly infectious disease,
researchers led by  John Mascola  at the  U.S. National Institutes
of Health  said in the study. Their findings improved upon those
published in September by a rival group that found antibodies
that neutralized about three-quarters of known strains.  
 HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, constantly changes its
surface proteins to evade the immune system and thwart
scientists who have so far failed to develop a vaccine against
it. The antibodies Mascola and colleagues found target a part of
the virus that rarely changes. While they can’t be used in a
vaccine as is, the group has started work on a shot that would
teach the immune system to make similar antibodies on its own.  
 “The discovery of these exceptionally broadly neutralizing
antibodies to HIV and the structural analysis that explains how
they work are exciting advances that will accelerate our efforts
to find a preventive HIV vaccine for global use,”  Anthony Fauci , director of the National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Diseases, said in a statement.  
 2 Million Deaths  
 HIV infects about 7,400 new people every day worldwide, and
led to 2 million deaths in 2007, according to UNAIDS. While
there are treatments that can suppress the virus for those who
can afford them, there is no cure.  
 Scientists have failed to produce an effective vaccine to
prevent infections after 25 years and billions of dollars spent
on research since the virus was first identified. In October,
the first vaccine to show promise in a large clinical trial
reduced infections by 31 percent, not enough for a functional
vaccine. Scientists still don’t know how the vaccine worked or
how they might make it more effective.  
 The AIDS virus constantly mutates, posing a moving target
for vaccine developers. The antibodies described in Science
today take advantage of an area of the virus that is the same in
nearly all strains. The proteins block the virus from latching
onto the surface of healthy immune system cells in an area known
as the CD4 molecule.  
 ‘Good News’  
 “That’s good news for vaccines because we were worried
that was the target of only one known antibody, and now it looks
like there are more,” said  Dennis Burton , a scientist at the
Scripps Research Institute in La Jolla, California, and director
of the Neutralizing Antibody Consortium, a group of scientists
searching for such proteins.  
 “We’ve solved many of the technical problems of searching
for these antibodies,” Burton said today in a telephone
interview. “We expect that there will be many more of these
antibodies coming along.”  
 Until the September study in Science, there were few
examples of broadly neutralizing antibodies, which fight off a
variety of HIV strains, said  Wayne Koff , chief scientific
officer at the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative, a New
York-based nonprofit group that spearheaded that study. The
group, which coordinates and funds vaccine development efforts,
started a project dubbed Protocal G in 2006, aimed at searching
for such antibodies.  
 ‘Most Vulnerable’  
 “What these studies are doing is identifying the sites that
are most vulnerable to the virus,” Koff said in an interview
today. “There are others in the pipeline that over the next six
months or year will also be identified and published. In the
next few years, we’ll have vaccine candidates in clinical
trials that will increasingly illicit these broadly neutralizing
antibodies.”  
 Vaccine makers still have to develop drugs that will spur
the immune system to make the protective antibodies. Those
efforts have already begun, after scientists were able to
identify the atomic structure of the antibody and to locate
exactly where it attaches to HIV.  
 Researchers are using the information to design new vaccine
components that might prevent infections from most of the
world’s vaccine strains, according to a statement from the
National Institutes of Health.  
 Today’s report comes little more than a week before the
opening of the  International AIDS Conference  in Vienna, where
researchers will be presenting HIV studies.  
 “I think this work brings us closer to a vaccine, but
there’s still a long way to go,” Burton said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        