-- Japan's Bonds Fall, Post First Weekly Loss in a Month, on Recovery Signs
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-07-09T04:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/japan-s-bonds-may-fall-for-second-day-on-u-s-job-report-election-outlook.html

          
          
             Japanese  bonds  fell, headed for the
first weekly loss in more than a month, as signs the global
economic recovery is intact curbed demand for the relative
safety of government debt.  
 Benchmark  yields rose toward a two-week high of 1.165
percent set yesterday as a falling approval rating for Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  raised concerns he will alter plans to rein
in debt supply. His ruling Democratic Party of Japan risks
losing its majority in upper house elections this weekend.  
 “Extreme pessimism for the global economy is now receding,
as a series of economic data” signal the recovery is
continuing, said  Masahide Tanaka , a senior strategist in Tokyo
at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s third-largest
bank by market value. “Bond yields at the current levels are
too low from the fundamentals viewpoint.”  
 The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year bond advanced one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.15 percent as of 1:10 p.m.
in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest
interdealer debt broker. The 1.1 percent security due June 2020
fell 0.088 yen to 99.554 yen. Ten-year bond futures for
September delivery lost 0.21 to 141.27 at the Tokyo Stock
Exchange.  
 The 10-year bond yield has risen 5.5 basis points this week
for its first weekly advance since the period ended June 4. The
International Monetary Fund raised its global growth forecast
yesterday and a Labor Department report showed that initial
claims for unemployment benefits fell more than economists had
estimated in the U.S.  
 Debt Auctions  
 This week, the Ministry of Finance sold 10- and 30-year
bonds totaling 2.8 trillion yen ($31.6 billion). Primary
dealers, which are required to bid at government debt sales,
often reduce holdings of bonds before an auction in case prices
decline before they can pass on the new securities to investors.  
 Improved corporate earnings may prompt investors to switch
to equities from government bonds, driving benchmark 10-year
yields up to 1.40 percent by Sept. 30,  Riichiro Fukahori , senior
vice president of fixed-income investment at Mizuho Corporate
Bank Ltd., said in an interview. Companies on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index are projected to post a 34 percent increase in
profit this year, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 The DPJ will win about 50 seats in the July 11 upper-house
election, after the prime minister’s approval rating fell to 45
percent from 50 percent, the Nikkei newspaper reported, citing
its opinion poll. Kan, who is planning to double the nation’s
sales tax to 10 percent, said last month his party aims to
retain all 54 seats in the upper house of parliament.  
 ‘No Choice’  
 “The uncertain outlook for mending government finances
will weigh on Japanese bonds,” said  Shinji Nomura , chief debt
strategist at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. in Tokyo.  
 Kan has said he will turn around the nation’s economy,
which has been battered by falling consumer prices and shrinking
population. In its medium-term economic plan released last
month, the government pledged to reduce corporate tax and
nurture the environment and healthcare industries.  
 “There is deep-rooted speculation the government’s plan to
bolster the economy and fix finances won’t show much progress,”
said  Ayako Sera , a market strategist in Tokyo at Sumitomo Trust
& Banking Co., which manages the equivalent of $310 billion.
“With lukewarm appetite for capital spending among businesses,
domestic investors, especially banks, have no choice but have to
continue to buy bonds.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        