-- Jatropha Needs Much More Rain to Thrive as Biofuel Feedstock, Study Finds
-- Louise Downing
-- 2010-07-08T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/jatropha-needs-much-more-rain-to-thrive-as-biofuel-feedstock-study-finds.html

          
          
                  July 8 (Bloomberg New Energy Finance) -- Jatropha, a non-
edible plant used to produce biofuels, needs almost twice as
much rain as previously thought, tropical temperatures and a dry
season to thrive, a study showed.  
 The findings, published in the scientific journal  Global
Change Biology Bioenergy , suggest the plant would grow best in
central America, India, Vietnam, northern Thailand, northern
Australia and the west coast of Africa. It is native to the
northeastern corner of South America.  
 “This study has confirmed that jatropha is a very
promising crop as a feedstock for the bio-energy sector,”  Henk Joos , technical director at London-based  D1 Oils Plc , a biofuel
crop developer, said in a telephone interview. “It has a wide
adaptation pattern and strong drought tolerance, which is a
built-in insurance of the crop.”  
 Jatropha has been lauded as a “miracle feedstock” that
can grow in very dry regions, does not compete with food
supplies or lead to deforestation -- criticisms that have been
leveled against other biofuel feedstocks such as soy, corn,
canola and palm oil.  
 This study, the first of its kind, examined jatropha seed
yields according to climate, mapping the best and worst regions
of the world for its growth.  
 ‘Miracle’ Not Materialized  
 “After few years as favorite of the media, environmental
groups and even some scientist, the miracle properties of
jatropha harvesting have failed to appear,” said  Roberto Rodriguez Labastida , a biofuels analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. Investments in the crop “have failed to propagate the
high yielding and low inputs trees that everyone expected.”  
 It found the plants need a mean annual temperature between
18 and 29 degrees Celsius, with minimum temperatures in the
coldest month above 8 to 9 degrees, suggesting it won’t tolerate
frost.  
 It needs rainfall between 500 and 1,400 millimeters a year,
the study showed. “At the beginning jatropha was sold as a
plant that could produce seeds with as low precipitations as 300
millimeters,” Antonio Trabucco, one of the scientists who wrote
the report, said in an e-mail.  
 “Lately, practitioners have recognized that more than 300
millimeters of rainfall was required,” he said. “Plantations
were being promoted at places with as low as 400 to 500
millimeters. Any real production of jatropha may happen above
600 millimeters of annual precipitation.”  
 Tropical Dry Seasons  
 The plant also favors tropical regions with a dry season as
well as sufficient annual rainfall, according to the study. It
didn’t pinpoint the countries where the jatropha will grow best.  
 “This study can be used to identify locations where the
basic requirements for jatropha yield are met, or to indicate,
for a certain location, which essential factor has to be
artificially adapted,” the paper said.  
 Joos of D1 Oils said the industry should move away from
“internet anecdotes” and “miracle crop” attitudes governing
cultivation of jatrophia and “professionalize the crop” using
scientific methods.  
 “With the right amount of water and fertilizers, farmers
can get good oil yields,” Rodriguez Labastida said. “The oil
itself produce a good quality biodiesel. If varieties are
advanced before it is taken to large scale plantations, then a
new type of vegetable oil crop could be widely deployed.”  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Louise Downing  in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        