-- JFK Defendant Wanted Talks to Start at $1 Million
-- Thom Weidlich
-- 2010-07-08T21:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/jfk-defendant-wanted-bomb-plot-talks-to-start-at-1-million-jurors-told.html

          
          
             One of the men accused of planning to
blow up New York’s  John F. Kennedy International Airport  thought
the alleged plotters should start negotiations with any
financial backer at $1 million, according to evidence in the
terror trial.  
 “I know this worth big money,”  Kareem Ibrahim  was heard
saying during a May 2007 meeting in Trinidad among the alleged
plotters that was recorded by a U.S. government informant and
played for the jury in Brooklyn, New York, federal court today.
“I think most likely we should bargain for a million.”  
 Russell Defreitas , a former Evergreen Airlines cargo worker
at the airport, and Abdul Kadir, a citizen of Guyana who served
as a member of the Guyanese Parliament, are on trial, charged
with hatching the plot in January 2006. They circulated their
plan to an international network of Muslim extremists,
prosecutors said in court papers.  
 Ibrahim, a citizen of Trinidad, was granted a separate
trial at a later date due to a medical condition. Defreitas is a
U.S. citizen and native of Guyana. The trial began June 30.  
 “What is the price?” Defreitas asked during the meeting,
according to the recording. “You can’t just start with zero,
zero, zero. Somebody got to know a figure.”  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney Jason Jones asked Steven Francis,
the government informant who infiltrated the group and who is on
the witness stand, what Ibrahim meant when he said the men
needed a “buyer.”  
 Mosque Account  
 “It’s going to be the person or entity who’s going to
support financially the JKF plot,” Francis testified.  
 According to the recordings, Kadir agreed that his bank
account could be used to hold the money.  
 “If the sponsor agrees, then we can transfer it to the
mosque account,” Kadir said during a recorded phone
conversation played for the jury today.  
 Prosecutors say Defreitas, Abdul Nur and Francis flew from
Guyana to Trinidad in May 2007 to seek financial and other
support from Abu Bakr, head of Jamaat Al Muslimeen, which staged
a coup attempt in Trinidad in 1990.  
 Nur, a citizen of Guyana, pleaded guilty June 29 to one
count of providing support to terrorists.  
 Body Wire  
 During the trip the plotters became concerned that Bakr
might turn them in to curry favor with the Trinidadian
government, Francis said. Nur had already told Bakr about the
plot, the government informant testified.  
 Francis asked Ibrahim if he knew anyone with “the ability
to pull this, this thing off,” according to the meeting he
recorded with a body wire.  
 Ibrahim said he might have contacts in Iran who could
support them.  
 Francis, a naturalized U.S. citizen from the Dominican
Republic, became a confidential informant for the federal
government after he was convicted of drug trafficking.  
 In cross examining him, Toni Messina, a lawyer for Kadir,
asked the witness today if, after several early conspirators
dropped out, he wanted the plot to move forward so that he would
avoid a prison sentence of 25 years to life for that conviction.  
 “Defreitas wanted the plot to continue,” Francis
answered. “I had other investigations I was actually partaking
of.”  
 The attack was designed to destroy “the whole of
Kennedy,” the largest airport in the New York City area,
Defreitas said in a taped conversation, according to the Justice
Department. The plot was foiled in the planning stages.  
 Expert Advice  
 The plotters conducted surveillance of the airport,
including videotaping its buildings, and sought expert advice,
financing and explosives, prosecutors said.  
 Defreitas pleaded not guilty in 2007. His co-defendants
pleaded not guilty in 2008. They’ve been in custody without
bail.  
 Defreitas and Kadir face life in prison if convicted.  
 The case is U.S. v. Russell Defreitas, 07-cr-00543, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        