-- Joanna Lumley Dresses Down, Ditches Glamour for West End Return
-- Warwick Thompson
-- 2010-07-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/joanna-lumley-dresses-down-ditches-glamour-for-west-end-return.html

          
          
             Joanna Lumley  is back on the West
End stage for the first time in 15 years -- for a role that
sees her sport bloomers and curl papers. The actress is
throwing away the glamour of the TV parts that have won many
male hearts. In “La Bete,” she has chosen the wrong vehicle.  
 David Hirson’s 1991 verse comedy is a challenge for
Lumley, 64, best known for her shows such as “Absolutely
Fabulous” and her campaigning to help Gurkha soldiers.  
 It doesn’t help that she plays alongside the on-form  Mark Rylance , fresh from his triumph in Jez Butterworth’s play
“Jerusalem.” He brings manic stage energy, constant gangly
movements and breathless little giggles to the role of Valere,
the jester, who courts popularity.  
 Valere is set against Elomire, a playwright who focuses on
posterity. Their battle for supremacy represents a well-known
artistic dilemma. It’s not a dilemma the author himself need
worry about.  
 With its leaden symbolism, lopsided construction and fey
17th-century setting, it’s doubtful whether Hirson’s play, now
revived at London’s  Comedy Theatre , will please either the
crowds or connoisseurs.  
 A symbolic dramatic conflict should hook like a grab-claw.
An irreconcilable battle between, say, truth and lies, or
revenge and forgiveness -- that’s dramatic. A conflict between
critical and commercial acclaim has all the irreconcilability
of a peaceful old couple snoring in bed. Plenty of artists --
Shakespeare, Goethe, Haydn, Puccini -- have managed to have
both, after all.  
 Princess, Patron  
 The cast works hard to breathe life into the premise.
Lumley tries to be both capricious and authoritative as the
princess who is patron of Elomire’s troupe, and  David Hyde Pierce  (from “Frasier”) takes on the thankless stooge role of
the uptight Elomire.  
 Director  Matthew Warchus  encourages them all to go to
extremes, with unfortunate results. Rylance sports crooked
false teeth and crazily mismatched clothes. Lumley appears at
Elomire’s apartments in odd dishabille. Eh? I thought it was
supposed to be the court of Louis XIV, not a 17th-century
production of “One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest.”  
 Hirson too obviously favors the character of the jester,
and provides him with rambling speeches about art and life. At
one stage Valere attempts a moment of mock humility, slaps
himself and cries, “Oh gag me, gag me!” during the middle of
a monologue, before getting back to his logorrhea. The
temptation to take him up on his offer was almost too strong to
resist.  
 Rating: * ½.  
 Strauss, Salome  
 For real dramatic punch, the Royal Opera’s production of
“Salome” by  Richard Strauss  knocks “La Bete” into a cocked
hat.  
 Director  David McVicar  updates the action to the 1930s and
sets the story in the creepy kitchens of a mansion. This is
where Salome, a little rich girl, meets Jokanaan, the prisoner
of her stepfather. When Jokanaan refuses her amorous advances,
she demands his head.  
 Angela Denoke  performs the title role as one long, slow,
mesmerizing build. She starts deliberately awkwardly with gawky
restrained movements, and holds back the power of her voice. By
the end, when she’s smeared with blood and pouring out her mad
desire to kiss Jokanaan’s head, she lets rip dramatically and
vocally with sensational results.  
 Johan Reuter makes a commanding Jokanaan, and tenor
Gerhard Siegel is terrific as the unhinged Herod. Conductor
Hartmut Haenchen matches the action by holding back the brass
until the white-knuckle climax. It’s one of those rare operatic
nights when everything comes together like a dream.  
 Rating: ****.  
 Glyndebourne, Giovanni  
 Jonathan Kent’s production of “Don Giovanni” at
 Glyndebourne  is less successful. He sets the action in the
operatically overworked era of 1950s Italy, and dresses the
characters in tailored suits, dark glasses and wide skirts.  
 The narrative is clear, and the action slick. For all
that, it lacks bite. Paul Brown’s set, a revolving gray cube
that opens in different configurations to reveal a church, a
graveyard and a dining room, promises more than it delivers.
Once the sides have swung out a few times, the changes then
feel less and less fresh. The ending brings no surprises. No
flames, no set transformation, nothing: Just a slow trapdoor
descent for the Don and Commendatore.  
 Gerald Finley (Don Giovanni) transcends everything with
his beautiful voice and creates a lively relationship with
Leporello (Luca Pisaroni). The rest of the relationships feel
underpowered, although Kate Royal (Elvira) and Anna Virovlansky
(Zerlina) sing attractively.  Vladimir Jurowski ’s conducting
zips along pleasantly.  
 If there’s nothing to scare the horses in Kent’s
traditional approach, there’s not enough to excite them either.  
 Rating: ** ½.  
 “La Bete” is at the Comedy Theatre until Sept. 4, and
transfers to the Music Box Theater on Broadway on Sept. 23.
Information:  http://www.labetetheplay.com  or +44-844-871-7622.  
 “Salome” is in repertoire at the Royal Opera House until
July 16. Information:  until July 16. Information:
 http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000.  
 “Don Giovanni” is in repertoire at Glyndebourne until
Aug. 27. Information:  http://www.glyndebourne.com  or
+44-1273-813813.  
 (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  

 
What the Stars Mean:
****      Excellent
***       Good
**        Average
*         Poor
(No stars)Worthless
 
 
To contact the writer on the story:
 Warwick Thompson , in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "La Bete"  
                       
                         
                           Manuel Harlan/Premiere PR via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Actress Joanna Lumley stars in "La Bete" by David Hirson at the Comedy Theatre in London. Lumley plays The Princess, the patroness of a seventeenth-century French theater troupe. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Actress Joanna Lumley stars in "La Bete" by David Hirson at the Comedy Theatre in London. Lumley plays The Princess, the patroness of a seventeenth-century French theater troupe. Photographer: Manuel Harlan/Premiere PR via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Actors from left, Joanna Lumley, Mark Rylance, and David Hyde Pierce star in "La Bete" by David Hirson at the Comedy Theatre in London. The Princess wishes the crowd-pleasing jester Valere to be included in Elomire's classical theater troupe. Photographer: Manuel Harlan/Premiere PR via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "La Bete"  
                       
                         
                           Manuel Harlan/Premiere PR via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Actors David Hyde Pierce, left, and Mark Rylance star in "La Bete" by David Hirson at the Comedy Theatre in London. Valere represents the voice of populism, Elomire the voice of high art in this verse drama. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Actors David Hyde Pierce, left, and Mark Rylance star in "La Bete" by David Hirson at the Comedy Theatre in London. Valere represents the voice of populism, Elomire the voice of high art in this verse drama. Photographer: Manuel Harlan/Premiere PR via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Salome"  
                       
                         
                           Clive Barda/Royal Opera via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Angela Denoke and Johan Reuter in "Salome" by Richard Strauss. Salome becomes obsessed with Jokanaan, a prisoner of her step-father Herod. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Angela Denoke and Johan Reuter in "Salome" by Richard Strauss. Salome becomes obsessed with Jokanaan, a prisoner of her step-father Herod. Photographer: Clive Barda/Royal Opera via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Salome"  
                       
                         
                           Clive Barda/Royal Opera via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Singers Angela Denoke and Gerhard Siegel in "Salome" by Richard Strauss. Director David McVicar stages the famous "Dance of the Seven Veils" as a history of the abuse Salome has suffered since she was a little girl. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Singers Angela Denoke and Gerhard Siegel in "Salome" by Richard Strauss. Director David McVicar stages the famous "Dance of the Seven Veils" as a history of the abuse Salome has suffered since she was a little girl. Photographer: Clive Barda/Royal Opera via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Salome"  
                       
                         
                           Clive Barda/Royal Opera via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Singer Angela Denoke plays the title character in "Salome" by Richard Strauss.  Director David McVicar places the action in the basement kitchen of a wealthy 1930s mansion. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Singer Angela Denoke plays the title character in "Salome" by Richard Strauss.  Director David McVicar places the action in the basement kitchen of a wealthy 1930s mansion. Photographer: Clive Barda/Royal Opera via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Kate Royal, Gerald Finley and Luca Pisaroni in "Don Giovanni" in Glyndebourne. Designer Paul Brown creates a revolving gray cube which opens to reveal different locations. Photographer: Bill Cooper/Glyndebourne via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Anna Virovlansky, Luca Pisaroni, Kate Royal, Guido Loconsolo, William Burden and Anna Samuil in "Don Giovanni" at Glyndebourne. In the final scenes of the opera, the set opens out on hydraulic platforms. Photographer: Bill Cooper/Glyndebourne via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
