-- KamAZ Bets on Daimler Tie, Truck-Component Ventures, to Keep Independence
-- Steve Rothwell
-- 2010-07-08T08:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/kamaz-betting-on-daimler-component-ventures-to-keep-technological-edge.html

          
          
             OAO KamAZ , Russia’s largest
truckmaker, is betting on joint ventures to help it maintain a
technological advantage over manufacturers in emerging markets
and remain an independent company.  
 KamAZ is in talks with  Daimler AG , the world’s biggest
truckmaker, on a venture to make cabins and engines, building on
a project to develop axles, Corporate Finance Director  Elena Milinova  said in an interview in London. Other partners include
Munich-based  Knorr Bremse Group , a maker of braking systems, and
ZF Friedrichshafen AG, a German gear-box producer, she said.  
 “The only way for KamAZ to survive and to grow is to stay
in this middle segment,” Milinova said in the interview
yesterday. “One step behind the Europeans but one step ahead of
the Chinese, from the technological point of view.”  
 Daimler, which owns the Freightliner brand, holds an
11 percent stake in KamAZ and has joint ventures with the
company to assemble models in Russia, including light trucks for
the German manufacturer’s Mitsubishi Fuso division as well as
Mercedes-Benz heavy commercial vehicles. KamAZ’s biggest
shareholder is state industrial holding company Russian
Technologies Corp. with 49.9 percent, while the European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development owns 4 percent.  
 “We are not going to become a producer of Mercedes-Benz
trucks,” Milinova said in the interview yesterday. “We will
stay as a unique brand and we see our niche in this market.”  
 KamAZ will  break even  this year as the truck market
rebounds after a slump in 2009, she said. The company plans on a
5 percent increase in sales this year to 27,200 vehicles.  
 “The recovery has started, and the situation has
stabilized,” the executive said.  
 Market Share Doubles  
 The truckmaker, based in Naberezhnye Chelny in the
Tatarstan region, has doubled its share of the Russian market to
57 percent this year from 28 percent in 2008, according to a
company presentation. It has won business from foreign
manufacturers after the government raised import taxes and the
ruble’s decline against other currencies made the competitors’
models more expensive.  
 KamAZ also intends to boost sales by increasing exports and
India, the home of  Tata Motors Ltd. , is one of its top targets.
KamAZ aims to sell as many as 7,000 vehicles annually in India
within a few years, the executive said.  
 “The Indian market is one of the most promising for us,”
Milinova said. “It’s a big market and the European brands are
not so strong there yet, so everybody is more or less in the
same competitive position.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        