-- Korean Won Rises as Pickup in U.S. Retailers' Sales Boosts Export Outlook
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-07-08T08:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/korean-won-rises-as-pickup-in-u-s-retailers-sales-boosts-export-outlook.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won strengthened the
most in nearly three weeks on speculation the country’s
exporters will report earnings this month that exceed analyst
estimates, boosting demand for the currency.  
 The won also climbed to this month’s high as investors bet
the Bank of Korea will signal its intention to raise the
benchmark interest rate at tomorrow’s monetary policy meeting.
The  Kospi index  gained 1.4 percent and foreigners  added  to their
holdings of Korean shares for the first time in seven days.  
 “The won benefited from an improvement in the stock market
on hopes we’ll see earnings surprises,” said  Yun Semin , a
currency dealer at Busan Bank in Seoul. “We also saw offshore
players sell U.S. dollars ahead of tomorrow’s interest rate
meeting on bets rates might rise.”  
 The won rose 1.1 percent to 1,209.40 per dollar as of the 3
p.m. close in Seoul, the biggest gain since June 21, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s still down 3.8 percent for
the year, the biggest loss among Asia’s 10 most-used currencies.  
 South Korean authorities may have prevented the won from
breaking far beyond 1,210 against the dollar, Yun added. Central
banks intervene in the currency markets by arranging purchases
or sales of foreign exchange. The dollar rebounded against the
won at that level about four times today.  
 Samsung Electronics Co. , South Korea’s biggest exporter,
said yesterday operating income rose 87 percent to a better-
than-expected record 5 trillion won ($4.1 billion) in the three
months through June. Exporters such as  LG Electronics Inc . and
Kia Motors Corp. will also report earnings this month.  
 Rate Outlook  
 The government’s three-year bonds fell before the central
bank policy meeting. Four of 14 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey predict the central bank will raise its benchmark
interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point from a record-
low 2 percent. The rest forecast no change.  
 The official rate has been left unchanged since February
2009 to spur the recovery from a recession. The International
Monetary Fund said this week Korea’s economy will expand 5.75
percent this year, revising a previous estimate of 4.5 percent.
The IMF said monetary policy is “somewhat beyond what is
necessary to support the recovery.”  
 The yield on the 3.75 percent note maturing in June 2013
rose five basis points to 3.94 percent, according to Korea Stock
Exchange. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        