-- Korean Won to Decline Most in Asia in Third Quarter, Credit Agricole Says
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-07-08T04:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/korean-won-to-decline-most-in-asia-in-third-quarter-credit-agricole-says.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won will be the biggest
loser among Asian currencies this quarter as the prospect of a
double-dip recession counters support from higher interest rates,
according to Credit Agricole CIB, the most bearish forecaster.  
 The currency will fall 5.4 percent to 1,280 per dollar by
Sept. 30 as the country’s biggest export markets weaken,  Dariusz Kowalczyk , Hong Kong-based senior economist and strategist, said
in an interview today. Korea’s central bank will raise the 2
percent  benchmark interest rate  by 25 basis points tomorrow and
by 75 basis points by year-end, Kowalczyk said.  
 “The environment is currently far from calm and things
will look worse before they get better in the third quarter,”
Kowalczyk said. “Rate hikes will not be the key driver as risk
aversion takes center stage.”  
 Credit Agricole’s forecast, last revised lower in the
middle of last month, compares with a median prediction in a
Bloomberg survey of 18 economists of 1,160. Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi Ltd. has the next weakest at 1,225.  
 Four of 14 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predict
the central bank will announce a quarter-point increase tomorrow,
while the remainder anticipate Governor Kim Choong Soo will hold
off until August or later in the year.  
 China, South Korea’s biggest export market, will see
economic growth slow this quarter, Kowalczyk said. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. lowered its economic growth forecast for China this
year to 10.1 percent from 11.4 percent last week.  
 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President Richard Fisher
said yesterday he sees little risk the economy will contract for
the second time in three years, a double-dip recession. The
Labor Department reported the first drop in employment this year
on July 2.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        