-- Netanyahu Would Discuss Settlements in Direct Talks With Abbas
-- Jonathan Ferziger
-- 2010-07-08T02:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/netanyahu-would-discuss-west-bank-settlements-in-direct-talks-with-abbas.html

          
          
             Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said he’s willing to negotiate the future of West Bank
settlements “right away” if Palestinians agree to meet face-
to-face for Middle East peace talks.  
 During an interview yesterday on CNN’s “ Larry King Live ,”
Netanyahu said the settlements would be among the first topics
if Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  dropped his
demand for a freeze on construction of West Bank settlements as
a condition for beginning direct talks.  
 “One of the things we’ll discuss right away is this issue
of settlements,” Netanyahu said. “Let’s just get down and
talk.”  
 Netanyahu meets with former President  Bill Clinton  today
and is to deliver a speech to the Council of Foreign Relations
in New York, wrapping up a three-day U.S. trip devoted to easing
strains with the Obama administration.  
 Netanyahu, who met with United Nations Secretary-General
 Ban Ki-moon  and Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  yesterday, has
said during his three-day trip that previous withdrawals from
the Gaza Strip and Lebanon left Israel less secure. He said
those were “mistakes” Israel won’t repeat in future
negotiations with the Palestinians.  
 “We want to make sure they have their own independent
dignified life, but they must not threaten Israel,” Netanyahu
said in a speech to the Council of Presidents of Major American
Jewish Organizations at New York’s Plaza Hotel.  
 Seeking Signal  
 Before Netanyahu’s CNN interview, Abbas said during a visit
to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, that Palestinians are waiting for “a
signal from the Israeli government,” which must agree to stop
building settlements and show willingness to negotiate on a two-
state solution, Zuhair Alshun, the Palestinian ambassador in
Ethiopia, said in a telephone interview.  
 The UN released a statement about Netanyahu’s meeting with
Ban, saying the two men met “tete-a-tete” for a portion of
their time together and “discussed the Middle East peace
process, the question of Gaza closures, and Lebanon and the
recent report on Resolution 1701, among other topics.”  
 Resolution 1701 ended the 2006 conflict between Israel and
Lebanon’s Hezbollah organization, which is classified as a
terrorist group by the U.S. and Israel.  
 Before flying to New York from Washington, Netanyahu met
Gates at Blair House, the official presidential guesthouse,
conferring on ways to improve security “in the face of regional
threats toward the goal of a comprehensive Middle East peace,”
the Defense Department said in an e-mailed statement. Gates
committed in the 75-minute meeting to help Israel “develop new
defenses against emerging threats,” the Pentagon said, without
elaborating.  
 Defense Systems  
 The U.S. is already helping Israel improve its defenses
against ballistic missiles and rocket attacks, the Pentagon
said. Obama has requested $205 million from Congress for a
defense system known as Iron Dome that is intended to protect
Israel from rockets and mortars fired from the Gaza Strip and
Lebanon.  
 Obama and Netanyahu told reporters after their July 6 Oval
Office meeting that they wanted to dispel concerns that the U.S.
commitment to Israel has been weakened by disputes over
construction in West Bank settlements and east Jerusalem.  
 “Reports about the demise of the special United States-
Israel relationship aren’t just premature, they’re flat wrong,”
Netanyahu said.  
 Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman , speaking
yesterday during a visit to Vilnius, Lithuania, said direct
talks can begin “in about September.”  
 Closer Relations  
 U.S. officials say that relations with the Israeli
government have grown closer since March, when Israel’s
announcement of an east Jerusalem housing plan during a visit by
Vice President  Joe Biden  drew criticism from Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton .  
 “I think we can say with some degree of encouragement that
the relationship between the United States and Israel is back on
track,” Democratic Senator  Joseph Lieberman  said at a press
conference yesterday while visiting Jerusalem.  
 Netanyahu said Israel is prepared to take risks for peace
as long as it doesn’t have to face a threat such as the 2007
seizure of the Gaza Strip by Hamas.  
 The Islamic movement rejects Israel’s right to exist and
fired about 3,200 rockets and mortars into Israel in 2008,
according to the Israeli army. Israel cited the attacks as the
reason for its military offensive in Gaza in December 2008,
which left more than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis dead.  
 Hamas, classified as a terrorist group by the U.S. and
Israel, continued to fire rockets after the operation. The
number of projectiles fired from Gaza totaled 708 last year and
about 160 so far this year, the army said June 8.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Washington at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu  
                       
                         
                           Stan Honda/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu smiles during a meeting at UN headquarters in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu smiles during a meeting at UN headquarters in New York. Photographer: Stan Honda/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
