-- Dutch Abandon Style for Victories in Run to World Cup Final Against Spain
-- Dan Baynes
-- 2010-07-10T01:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/netherlands-abandon-style-for-winning-results-in-run-to-world-cup-final.html

          
          
             The Netherlands team is trying to
give the nation its first global title with a cruder approach
than the “total football” style that lost it two soccer World
Cup finals in the 1970s.  
 The Dutch, who go into tomorrow’s final against European
champion Spain having committed a tournament-high  98 fouls , need
one more victory to become the first team since Brazil in 1970
to win all its games at the World Cup.  
 “Playing good football isn’t enough,” former Netherlands
captain  Ruud Krol , who played in the 1974 and 1978 final defeats
to Germany and Argentina, said in a telephone interview. “It
remains a long story that we played so nicely and didn’t win.
Maybe they play not as nice but they can win something.”  
 “Total football,” where each player is comfortable in
possession in numerous positions, is synonymous with those
losing teams and players including three-time European
Footballer of the Year  Johan Cruyff .  
 At Johannesburg’s Soccer City, it will be opponent Spain,
rather than the Dutch, that plays in a style more in keeping
with that pioneered by former Netherlands coach Rinus Michels.  
 The Spanish have found a teammate with 81 percent of their
passes, a better rate than any of the other 31 participants, and
have successfully completed nearly 1,000 passes more than the
Netherlands.  
 Better With Ball  
 “We feel better when we have the ball,” Spain coach
 Vicente Del Bosque  said after his team’s 1-0 semifinal win over
Germany. “If we don’t have the ball then we suffer.”  
 Krol, who captained the Dutch in the 1978 World Cup, said
Spain’s resemblance to the team he played in is no accident.  
 Michels revamped 20-time Spanish champion Barcelona’s
playing style between 1971 and 1975, while Cruyff spent five
years there as a player before coaching the team for eight more.
He’s been followed by Dutch countrymen  Louis Van Gaal  and  Frank Rijkaard . Current coach  Josep Guardiola  played under Cruyff.  
 “The Dutch influence is clearly there,” Krol said. “The
playing lessons are from Michels and Cruyff.”  
 Seven of Spain’s 11 starters for the semifinal play for
Barcelona. Del Bosque says he’s fortunate to have a nucleus of
players including Barca’s  Xavi Hernandez  and  Andres Iniesta , who
were shortlisted for FIFA’s World Player of the Year in 2009.  
 “I don’t know if it looks like the Dutch style, but it is
always based on the quality of the people in the midfield,” Del
Bosque said. “It is an organized midfield and if you have order
then you can really showcase individual talent.”  
 Spain restricted a Germany team that had scored a
tournament-high  13 goals  to five shots and was given the time to
circulate the ball in search of openings of its own. Defender
 Carles Puyol  got the only goal with a 73rd-minute header.  
 ‘The Best’  
 Netherlands winger  Arjen Robben  said the Dutch risk losing
for the first time in 14 competitive matches if they follow
Germany’s tactics.  
 “I was really surprised with how freely Germany let them
play,” Robben told reporters. “When you give them room to play
they’re the best. We have to start pressing them earlier, higher
up the field.”  
 Robben and Netherlands midfielder  Wesley Sneijder  were
teammates at nine-time European champion Real Madrid before the
Spanish club sold them before the start of last season. Sneijder
went on to win the Champions League with Inter Milan following
the Italian team’s victory over Barcelona in the semifinals.  
 ‘More Motivation’  
 Playing Spain “gives them more motivation on Sunday,”
said Krol, who played 83 times for the Netherlands. “The others
will want to shine too, but for them it is extra special.”  
 Before the current squad’s run, Dutch teams had failed to
match the achievements of the 1970s, often losing in the
knockout stages following a strong start. The 1998 team reached
the semifinals before falling to Brazil in a penalty shootout.  
 “You have to fight against the history of ‘74 and ‘78,”
striker  Robin van Persie  told reporters after the semifinal win
over Uruguay. “They were such great players and they didn’t do
it somehow, and we have the chance to do it now.”  
 Victory against Spain may help some former players put at
least one of those final defeats behind them, according to Rene
van de Kerkhof, who played in both matches.  
 “Many of the players that lost the final in ‘74 have been
traumatized and a win would compensate part of the loss,” Van
de Kerkhof said in a telephone interview. “The team can do it
this time as they are focused and determined to win this game.
They know the importance of this opportunity.”  
 Spain is the 4-7 favorite to lift the World Cup for the
first time, according to U.K. bookmaker William Hill. The
Netherlands are a 6-4 chance, meaning a successful $4 bet on the
Dutch brings in $6 plus the original stake.  
 Whatever the result at Soccer City tomorrow, soccer will
get its first new world champion since France in 1998. Krol said
he doesn’t mind how victory is achieved as long as the trophy
goes to the Netherlands.  
 “If they win with nice football that would be great, but
for me winning is the most important thing,” Krol said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Johannesburg through the London sports desk at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Baynes  in Johannesburg at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Dutch national soccer team captain and defender Ruud Krol leads his team onto the field before the start of the World Cup final between Argentina and the Netherlands in 1978 in Buenos Aires. Photographer: Staff/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
