-- NYC Heat Wave to Continue for Fifth Day After More Records Set
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-07-08T19:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/new-york-city-heat-wave-to-continue-for-fifth-day-after-more-records-set.html

          
          
             New York City temperatures are
falling short today of a 90-degree Fahrenheit threshold needed
to extend a heat wave that began on the Fourth of July.  
 The high so far in Central Park was 88 degrees (31 Celsius)
at 3 p.m., according to the National Weather Service website. A
heat wave officially requires at least three days at 90 degrees
or higher.  
 “Tomorrow we could see temperatures right around 90 but
thereafter it is going to be in the upper 80s,” said John
Murray, a weather service meteorologist in  Upton, New York . “It
is not going to be the magnitude that we saw on Tuesday or even
yesterday.”  
 The four-day streak broke temperature records in New York,
Baltimore and at Washington  Reagan National Airport , caused
delays for commuters and Amtrak passengers and forced
governments to open shelters for people trying to beat the heat.  
 New York broke daily temperature records and reached above
100 degrees for two days in a row for the first time since 1999.
Central Park posted 100 degrees yesterday and 103 the day
before, the peak of the heat wave.  
 According to weather service records, Newark has borne the
brunt of the heat wave reaching 100 degrees or higher for the
last four days. Today’s high was 85.  
 Utilities have asked customers to curb electricity use as
the high temperatures strained power grids and raised
consumption in New York to a near-record, according to the New
York Independent System Operator.  
 Conserving Power  
 Consolidated Edison Co. urged its 3.2 million customers in
the New York City area to conserve power during the day. The
company began distributing dry ice to Brooklyn customers who
lost power, while Connecticut opened more than 100 “cooling
centers” where residents could find air-conditioning.  
 Baltimore and Washington also set records this week. The
high at Reagan National Airport was 102 yesterday, according to
the weather service.  
 While the heat wave broke today in New York, it’s
continuing in Washington and Baltimore, said Heather Sheffield,
a weather service meteorologist in Sterling, Virginia. Both
cities currently are at 93 degrees, she said.  
 Tomorrow, high temperatures are expected to only reach the
mid-80s, which will break the heat wave there as well, she said.  
 A cold front will move into the eastern U.S. starting late
tomorrow and bringing thunderstorms and rain to New York,
Washington and as well as the other cities along Interstate 95.  
 While those fronts will knock temperatures down from record
levels, they will still be in the upper 80s to 90s through next
week, said  Jim Rouiller , a senior energy meteorologist at
 Planalytics Inc.  in Berwyn, Pennsylvania.  
 Warm July  
 Rouiller expects July to be warmer than normal for much of
the U.S. He said the current temperatures are typical when a La
Nina, or cooling of the Pacific Ocean, starts to develop. A La
Nina is likely to form by August, the U.S. Climate Prediction
Center in Camp Springs, Maryland said today.  
 “La Nina supports hot summers,” Rouiller said.  
 The heat wave may be a forerunner of things to come, said
David Easterling, a climatologist with the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration’s National Climatic Data Center, in
Asheville, North Carolina.  
 The U.S. is forecast to have temperatures above average for
July, August and beyond, Easterling said on a conference call on
climate change hosted by the Union of Concerned Scientists.  
 “The temperatures from January through May were among the
warmest on record,” Easterling said. “If the warming around
the world continues the way it has so far this year, we are
likely to have 2010 be the warmest on record.”  
 The  cooling degree days  value for New York was 25, 14
higher than normal, according to the weather service. For the
month, New York is 43 above normal for a value of 119.  
 Cooling Values  
 Cooling degree days, calculated by subtracting a base of 65
degrees from the average daily temperature, is a value designed
to show energy demand, according to the weather service. The
higher the value, the warmer the weather, and thus the more
energy is probably consumed to cool homes and businesses.  
 Yesterday’s high in Newark was 101 degrees, two shy of the
daily record 103 set in 1993. The cooling degree day value in
Newark was 26, 14 above normal.  
 The value in Boston was 13, 5 above normal; 26 at
Washington’s Reagan National Airport, 12 above normal; and 27 in
Philadelphia or 15 above normal, according to the weather
service.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A teenager stands under a stream of water in the Columbus Circle fountains in New York. Photographer: Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
