-- New York's Paterson Vetoes Lawmakers Attempt at `Back Door' Spending
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-07-08T21:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/new-york-s-paterson-vetoes-lawmakers-attempt-at-back-door-spending.html

          
          
             New York  Governor  David Paterson 
vetoed legislation that he said was an attempt by lawmakers to
get around his rejection of some school-aid spending.  
 Much of the  bill , which amended education and family
service law, had merit, Paterson said. He objected to one
section on the 22nd of 45 pages where a change in the school-aid
formula would have cost the state $600 million during two years,
according to division of budget estimates.  
 “The Legislature seeks to achieve through the back door of
this bill what it did not gain through its appropriation,”
Paterson said in the veto message.  
 Last week’s veto of $419 million of school-aid spending was
needed because “the Legislature failed to put forward a
balanced budgetary plan that would account for such added
spending,” he said.  
 The school-aid money was the largest item among 6,709
 vetoes  -- a stack of paper 31 inches high (78.7 centimeters) --
Paterson delivered yesterday to absent lawmakers, trimming
$805.3 million of spending to help narrow the state’s $9.2
billion budget deficit.  
 With its Senate adjourned, the nation’s third-biggest state
by population has a spending plan without enough funds to pay
for it. The Senate didn’t act on a $1 billion revenue bill
passed by the Assembly, and neither chamber planned for the
chance that about $1 billion of federal Medicaid assistance
wouldn’t arrive. The U.S. Senate blocked the money.  
 Revenue Bill  
 Without a revenue bill, a projected cash squeeze in
September becomes worse and “the state will run out of money in
about a month-and-a-half,” Paterson said today in an interview
on New York City radio station  WOR .  
 A school-aid payment due Sept. 1, before tax receipts
arrive mid-month, “will put pressure on cash and may require
payment to be made on a more staggered basis,” as was done in
March and June of this year, as well as December 2009, said Erik
Kriss, a spokesman for the Division of Budget.  
 Cash projections show a balance of $3.35 billion at the end
of August and $3.26 billion at the end of September, according
to budget  documents.   
 Even if the revenue bill passes the Senate, the budget
contains dubious spending and revenue assumptions that open the
door to a mid-year deficit, according to analysts at the  Empire
Center  and  Citizens Budget Commission , two independent watchdog
groups.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        