-- New Jersey Senate Approves Property Tax-Cap Measure Backed by Christie
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-07-08T20:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/new-jersey-s-senate-approves-property-tax-cap-measure-backed-by-christie.html

          
          
             The  New Jersey  Senate passed a plan
backed by Republican Governor  Chris Christie  to put a 2 percent
limit on annual increases in property taxes, already the highest
in the U.S.  
 The 36-3 vote came five days after Christie and Senate
President  Stephen Sweeney , a West Deptford Democrat, announced
the compromise on a cap for the levies, which climbed 72 percent
between 1999 and 2009. The plan would cut the current 4 percent
ceiling and allow for fewer exemptions.  
 “He can’t run around claiming victory and I can’t run
around claiming victory,” Sweeney told reporters on the Senate
floor following the vote. “The taxpayers won. We got it. We’ve
been listening.”  
 Democrats control the Senate 23-17 and the Assembly, 47-33.
Assembly Speaker  Sheila Oliver , an East Orange Democrat, has
said her chamber supports the compromise. She said in a
statement today the Assembly will vote on it July 12. New Jersey
property taxes averaged $7,281 last year, higher than any other
U.S. state.  
 Christie, 47, the first Republican elected governor in the
state since 1997, called in May for a  constitutional amendment 
capping property-tax growth at 2.5 percent with exceptions only
to cover bond payments or with local voter approval. Democrats
had pushed for a statutory cap with more exemptions.  
 Impact on Towns  
 “Finally, New Jerseyans can see the beginning of the end
of our property-tax nightmare,”  Michael Drewniak , a Christie
spokesman, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “We look
forward to speedy consideration and passage in the Assembly.”  
 Under the compromise, schools and local governments could
exceed the limit to cover rising health-insurance costs, bond
payments, natural disasters and pensions, Christie said.
Communities also could go above the cap through a public
referendum, he said.  
 Lawmakers will hold hearings on Christie’s 33-point
“toolkit” of legislation allowing mayors and school officials
to remain under the ceiling by letting them opt out of civil
service and capping contract awards, Sweeney said. It also would
curb payouts for unused sick-leave and vacation, and end the
“bumping” rights that let the highest-paid, senior workers
avoid layoffs.  
 Oliver, who controls the Assembly agenda, said legislative
committees will hold weekly hearings on the plan through the
next few months. Drewniak said Christie will press lawmakers to
“keep the momentum” going and approve the package.  
 Three Democrats in the Senate,  Bob Smith  of Piscataway,
 Shirley Turner  of Trenton and  Ronald Rice  of Newark, voted no on
the tax cap. A fourth,  Nia Gill  of Montclair, was absent.  
 Arguing Against  
 Before the vote, Smith said lawmakers were rushing to enact
the levy limit without giving communities that rely on the tax
time to make the transition. It may leave some towns unable to
pay workers and force them to fire workers, cut services or
enact user fees to raise revenue, he said.  
 “These cuts are going to be monstrous not just in terms of
dollars but in terms of people,” Smith said on the Senate
floor. “A decision of this magnitude was made without
sufficient public input.”  
 The tax ceiling is below a 2.9 percent threshold approved
by lawmakers last month. To expedite passage of the plan,
Christie vetoed that legislation and lawmakers amended it to
reflect the compromise. The amended bill passed today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chris Christie, governor of New Jersey. Photographer: Tim Larsen/Office of the Governor via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
