-- New Czech Central Banker Sees Rates Remaining at Record Low for `a While'
-- Douglas Lytle
-- 2010-07-08T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/new-czech-central-banker-sees-rates-remaining-at-record-low-for-a-while-.html

          
          
             Czech central bank Governor  Miroslav Singer , who took office last week, said  interest rates  are
likely to remain at a record low for “quite a while.”  
 Monetary policy needs only “fine-tuning,” Singer said in
an interview today in Prague. The Ceska Narodni Banka left its
benchmark interest rate at 0.75 percent on June 23, after an
unexpected cut in May reduced it to a quarter-point less than
the European Central Bank’s main rate.  
 “At this moment, I don’t see a move,” said Singer, 42.
“My gut feeling is that this situation may stay for a while. It
is very difficult to get consensus for further cuts, and the
 economy  is about where it was when we cut, or before we cut.”  
 East European nations, including the Czech Republic, are
emerging from the worst recession since the end of communism as
 trade  increases. The central bank signaled in its May forecast
that borrowing costs may be steady until the end of 2010 and
start rising in 2011, when economic growth should accelerate to
1.8 percent from the 1.4 percent estimate for this year.  
 The country had its 17th consecutive trade surplus in May
and industrial  output  rose to a 30-month high in April, driven
by car production at the local units of Skoda Auto AS and
 Hyundai Motor  Co. Auto-industry output grew 29 percent in the
first quarter and exports increased 23 percent. The  unemployment 
rate dropped to a six-month low in May at 8.7 percent.  
 Growth ‘Path’  
 Singer, a University of Pittsburgh-trained economist who
was a deputy governor before taking the bank’s top job on July
1, said the Czech economy, which exports about 70 percent of its
output, is on “a path to moderate growth” this year and the
expansion will accelerate in 2012.  
 The Czech Republic’s small size and its exposure to outside
economic shocks means the bank must “move rates more often
than, say, the United States,” Singer said.  
 “I’ve never been unhappy with changing rates,” he said.
“And not only down. The last two years provided a more downside
scenario than before, but even before that from time to time I
can remember being outvoted in voting for a hike.”  
 At the central bank’s last board meeting, policy makers
“agreed that the balance of risks to the inflation forecast was
currently broadly balanced,” though “the general uncertainties
of the forecast were still comparatively high,” according to
minutes from the session.  
 Inflation Moves  
 The inflation rate rose to 1.2 percent in May from 1.1
percent in the previous month, above the central bank’s forecast
of 0.9 percent. The bank’s latest forecast put inflation at less
than the 2 percent target in 12 to 18 months.  
 The koruna, which has lost 1.5 percent against the euro
since April 14, doesn’t pose a threat of boosting  consumer
prices , Singer said. The koruna traded at 25.446 per euro as of
1:09 p.m. in Prague.  
 “The current weakening is not bringing any inflationary
pressures because consumption is subdued and banks are not
lending that much,” he said.  
 The Czechs, who must adopt the euro as part of their
agreement to enter the  European Union  in 2004, don’t have a
target date for the switch. Czech policy makers have said that
an independent monetary policy and currency helped the country
cope with the impact of the global economic crisis better than
the 16 euro-region nations.  
 Singer didn’t comment specifically on the timing of
joining the euro. “I don’t think the euro is going to be a
focal point of our policy making in the monetary policy horizon,
or in the next two or three years,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alan Crosby  at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net 
 Douglas Lytle  at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        