-- Nigeria Stocks, Africa's Second-Best, May Climb a Further 20%, DaMina Says
-- Vincent Nwanma
-- 2010-07-08T07:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/nigerian-stocks-africa-s-second-best-may-climb-further-20-damina-says.html

          
          
             Nigeria’s main stock index, Africa’s
second-best performer in the first half of this year, may gain a
further 20 percent in 2010 as the government absorbs the bad
debt of the country’s banks, DaMina Advisors said.  
 The 213-member  Nigeria Stock Exchange All Share Index ,
whose 21 percent gain is second in the continent to the 28
percent advance of Kenya’s benchmark index, may reach 30,490 by
yearend from 25,409 on June 30 as the Asset Management Corp. set
up by the West African nation to buy toxic assets from lenders
starts operating, said  Sebastian Spio-Garbrah , chief executive
officer of DaMina.  
 If Amcon does “only half of its work well,” this will
still trigger “a consolidation in the banking landscape,
catalyze more foreign interest in the local market, and spur it
to even higher values by yearend,” New York-based Spio-Garbrah
said by e-mail. Banks, which make up about 60 percent of the
Nigerian equities market by weighting, will lead the resurgence,
he said.  
 A debt crisis in 2009 left the country’s lenders with toxic
assets of about $10 billion, Spio-Garbrah estimated a year ago
while working as an Africa analyst at Eurasia Group. The central
bank fired the top managers of eight of the country’s 24 lenders
and gave the industry an injection of 620 billion naira ($4.1
billion) to stem the decline. Buying that debt will cost the
central bank “roughly” $5 billion as commercial banks don’t
have collateral to cover the bad loans, Central bank Governor
Lamido Sanusi said July 1.  
 Benefits  
 “Although the Amcon is itself initially capitalized by
less than $100 million, it will have the authority to issue up
to $5 billion in Nigeria sovereign-guaranteed bonds to buy the
impaired assets from the banks,” Spio-Garbrah wrote in a note
to clients on July 6.  
 Some stocks that will benefit include  First Bank of Nigeria
Plc , the country’s biggest lender by market value, United Bank
for Africa Plc and Zenith Bank Plc, he said. These banks would
want to “unload their difficult and bad debts in exchange for
fresh cash,” he said.  
 Others that will increase are  First City Monument Bank Plc ,
“which was just on the cusp of the crisis,” and bailed-out
lenders including Oceanic Bank Plc, Unity Bank Plc and Afribank
Nigeria Plc.  
 Nigeria’s parliament passed the Amcon bill on June 23, and
the document now awaits assent by President Goodluck Jonathan
before it becoming law.  
 ‘Best Capitalized’  
 Sanusi said last year that he expected the law creating the
company to be passed by Dec. 31, 2009, and that it would start
operating in January this year. The central bank extended the
recapitalization deadlines for two bailed-out banks,  Wema Bank
Plc  and Unity Bank Plc, by three months, the central bank said
last week.  
 Amcon “will face its toughest hurdles in pricing the
impaired assets and in the choice of assets to buy,” Spio-
Garbrah said. “If Amcon is successful, Nigeria will emerge with
some of the best capitalized banks in Africa.” It will also
“catalyze an expansion of money supply and unfreeze credit,”
he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        