-- Norilsk Says Dispute Over Election of Board Threatens to Delay Dividend
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2010-07-08T17:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/norilsk-shareholder-potanin-to-oppose-board-changes-proposed-by-deripaska.html

          
          
             OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel , Russia’s
largest mine operator, said a dispute over the election of the
company’s board threatens to stall payment of the 2009 dividend.  
 A delay by former Chairman  Alexander Voloshin  in ratifying
a June 28 shareholders’ vote that ousted him from the board may
prevent the payout, Norilsk said today in an e-mailed statement.  
 Norilsk shareholder  Vladimir Potanin ’s Interros Holding Co.
said today it “won’t tolerate” a proposal by fellow stock
owner  Oleg Deripaska  to change the board elected last week.
Deripaska, whose company United Co. Rusal owns a quarter of
Norilsk, plans to call an extraordinary general meeting to
challenge the vote. Moscow-based Norilsk also today denied Rusal
comments that there were “manipulations” during the election.  
 Rusal, with $12 billion of debt, aims to use Norilsk’s cash
flow to solve its own problems, Potanin’s Interros, which also
holds 25 percent of Norilsk, said in a statement today.  
 Rusal spokeswoman  Vera Kurochkina  referred to yesterday’s
release from the company that it sought to restore a “balance
on the Norilsk board in the interest of all shareholders.”  
 “The question arises as to why Norilsk management
considers that the absence of a signature by Mr. Voloshin means
that only one of the decisions of the shareholder’s vote -- that
of dividend payout -- becomes impossible and not the other
matters, including the election of a new board,” she said.  
 Interros won four seats on Norilsk’s 13-person board, and
Rusal got three seats, with Deripaska among its representatives.
A feud between Potanin and Deripaska over Norilsk in 2008 only
ended when the two agreed not to seek election to the board or
pursue plans to merge Norilsk and Rusal for three years.  
 Shares Gain  
 “We expect Rusal’s Oleg Deripaska and Interros’ Vladimir
Potanin to start building up their stakes ahead of the EGM,
which could result in the purchase of shares on the open
market,” UralSib Financial Corp. analysts  Dmitry Smolin  and
 Nikolay Sosnovsky  wrote in a note today. “The conflict can only
serve as an additional catalyst” for Norilsk shares to rise.  
 Norilsk  gained 0.2 percent  to 4,776.34 rubles on the Micex
Stock Exchange in Moscow, a fifth day of gains. The shares fell
10.5 percent in the three days following the board vote.  
 Deripaska said July 6 he planned to reinstate  Voloshin  at
the next shareholders meeting, replacing  Vasily Titov , first
deputy president of  OAO VTB Bank , who was elected in June.  
 Potanin and Norilsk’s management have resisted Deripaska’s
ambitions to merge the nickel producer with Rusal, the world’s
largest aluminum maker.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yuriy Humber  in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        