-- Norway Arrests Terror Suspects With Links to Al-Qaeda
-- Marianne Stigset
-- 2010-07-08T13:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/norway-arrests-three-for-alleged-links-to-al-qaeda-plotting-u-s-attacks.html

          
          
             Norwegian police arrested three men
suspected of having ties to Al-Qaeda on charges of preparing
terrorist attacks, possibly in the U.K. and U.S., Public
Prosecutor Jan Glent told reporters in Oslo today.  
 The three men, all in their thirties and of Iraqi-Kurdish,
Uzbek and Uighur origins, were apprehended in Oslo and in
Germany in cooperation with German police today,  the Norwegian
Police Security Service , or PST, said in a statement on its
website. The Uighur suspect acquired Norwegian citizenship in
2007, while the other two have permanent residency in Norway,
the PST said. The Uighurs are a Chinese ethnic minority from the
predominantly Muslim region of Xinjiang.  
 “The investigation has been going on for a period of
time,” PST Head Janne Kristiansen told reporters. “The time of
the arrests however, was influenced by the fact that at the end
of last week we received information that the case would be
reported in international media. We therefore did not quite
choose the timing of this ourselves, but we believe we have a
solid case.”                          
 The Associated Press reported the suspects were planning
attacks with portable explosives, similar to those employed in
last year’s foiled plot to bomb New York subways, citing
unidentified officials. The planned attacks may have been
organized by Salah al-Somali, Al-Qaeda’s former chief of
external operations who was killed in a CIA drone attack last
year, AP said, citing the officials.  
 Mastermind  
 Al-Somali has been identified as one of the masterminds
behind the New York subway attack, AP said. The U.S. District
Court in Brooklyn, New York, yesterday named five purported
members of Al-Qaeda in a new indictment in the case. Adnan
Shukrijumah, one of Al-Qaeda’s top operatives allegedly in
charge of attacks on the U.S., was among the five. Shukrijumah
was also involved in a plan to attack Manchester, U.K.  
 At least one of the suspects arrested is likely to go
before Oslo District Court with a request to be held in custody,
Kristiansen said. The charges against the three, which fall
under the Norwegian Penal Code section 147a, could lead to as
long as 12 years in jail, the public prosecutor said.  
 “The three are charged with preparing to carry out a
terrorist activity at a later stage,” Glent said. “We believe
there is more than a 50 percent likelihood that they have
committed the act they are being charged with.”  
 Afghan Link  
 The German Federal Criminal Police Office declined to
comment on the ongoing investigation, a spokesman for the agency
said by phone.  
 Kristian Berg Harpviken, director at the Peace Research
Institute in Oslo, said the three suspects came from countries
that had organizations fighting Allied forces in Afghanistan.
Norway has about 500 soldiers in Afghanistan and has lost a
total of nine. Four were killed in an attack on June 27, the
deadliest single attack on Norwegian forces since WWII.          
 “All of these nationalities have had Islamist armed
resistance organizations based in Afghanistan,” Harpviken said
on the phone today. “There are strong reasons to ask whether
Norway is becoming more or less secure in relation to
international terrorism as a result of our partaking in
Afghanistan. It associates us very closely with the U.S., which
has been a prime target for Islamist international terrorism. "  
 Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, who returned from his
holidays to comment on the terror arrest today, said Norway’s
involvement in Afghanistan was an important contribution to
reducing the threat of terrorism.  
 ‘‘It is right for us to be in Afghanistan, also to reduce
the risk of terrorist acts against Norway,’’ Stoltenberg said at
a press conference in Oslo today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net ;
Marianne Stigset at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Norway's Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg speaks at a press conference in Oslo. Photographer: Gorm Kallestad/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
