-- Obama Says Mideast Peace Possible in His First Term
-- Jonathan Ferziger
-- 2010-07-08T22:14:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/obama-says-mideast-peace-agreement-can-be-reached-during-his-first-term.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said after
talks with Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  at the
White House that a Middle East peace agreement can be reached
before the end of his first term.  
 Obama gave his assessment of the prospects for resolving
the Arab-Israeli conflict in an interview with Israel’s Channel
2 television that was shown yesterday as Netanyahu wrapped up a
three-day trip to the U.S. The Israeli leader said he would
prove wrong those who are skeptical about his commitment to
peace.  
 When asked whether a Middle East deal could be concluded
during his first four years in office, Obama said: “I think
so.” The president’s term ends in January 2013. Netanyahu,
speaking in New York, said: “I think we should seize the
moment.”  
 Obama met with  Netanyahu  at the White House on July 6 and
said direct Israel-Palestinian talks may get started within less
than three months. Obama has been trying to persuade Netanyahu
and Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  to move beyond
the indirect talks they have been conducting through U.S. Middle
East envoy  George Mitchell  and hold face-to-face negotiations.  
 Netanyahu is interested “in being a statesman,” Obama
said in the broadcast. “The fact that he is not perceived as a
dove in some ways can be helpful.”  
 Abbas and Palestinian Authority Prime Minister  Salam Fayyad  are “willing to make the concessions and engage in
negotiations that can result in peace,” Obama said. The
president said there “is a constant contest between moderates
and rejectionists” in the Arab world.  
 Seize Opportunity  
 “We probably won’t have a better opportunity than we have
right now and that has to be seized,” Obama said.  
 Obama said time may be running out for Palestinian
moderates who are willing to make compromises “if they aren’t
able to deliver for their people.”  
 Netanyahu, whose Likud party supports Jewish settlement in
the West Bank, said yesterday in New York that Israel is
prepared to make “far-ranging concessions” to achieve a
political solution.  
 “I intend to confound the skeptics and critics,”
Netanyahu said in a lunchtime speech to the Council on Foreign
Relations. “ I’m prepared to do something. I’m prepared to take
risks.”  
 Obama, who described his two hours with Netanyahu as
“excellent” and detailed, described the Israeli leader as
“somebody who understands that we’ve got a fairly narrow window
of opportunity.”  
 Direct Talks  
 Still, Netanyahu indicated that he doesn’t want to extend
the 10-month moratorium on settlement construction in the West
Bank that ends Sept. 26 in the hope that Abbas will agree to
meet face-to-face.  
 “So far seven months have passed and they haven’t come
in,” Netanyahu said. “We should not waste any more time.”  
 Abbas, who met with Obama at the White House on June 9, has
called for a halt to settlement construction in the West Bank
and said he wants to see more progress in indirect talks before
moving to the negotiating table with Netanyahu.  
 “The Israeli people are going to have to overcome
legitimate skepticism, more than legitimate fears, in order to
get a change that I think will secure Israel for another 60
years,” Obama said.  
 Nuclear Iran  
 Obama and Netanyahu also conferred in Washington on what
they say is the threat of a nuclear-armed Iran.  
 “All indicators are that they are in fact pursuing a
nuclear weapon,” Obama said in yesterday’s broadcast. “I
assure you I have not taken options off the table.”  
 Netanyahu praised sanctions that Obama signed into law last
week targeting Iranian gasoline imports and banking access as
measures that “bite.” The United Nations Security Council
imposed on June 9 a fourth round of sanctions on Iran over its
nuclear development.  
 Obama, when asked in the Channel Two interview about the
possibility of Israel launching a unilateral attack on Iran,
said he did not believe Netanyahu would surprise him. “We try
to coordinate on issues of mutual concern,” he said.  
 Asked about why some Israelis doubt his support for the
country, Obama said “some of it may just be the fact that my
middle name is Hussein and that creates suspicion, some of it
may have to do with the fact that I have actively reached out to
the Muslim community.”  
 “The truth of the matter is that my outreach to the Muslim
community is designed precisely to reduce the antagonism and the
dangers posed by a hostile Muslim world to Israel and to the
West,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Louis Meixler  in Jerusalem at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Ferziger , traveling with Netanyahu in New York, at
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. President Barack Obama  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Obama met with Netanyahu at the White House on July 6 andsaid direct Israel-Palestinian talks may get started within less than three months. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Obama met with Netanyahu at the White House on July 6 andsaid direct Israel-Palestinian talks may get started within less than three months. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
