-- Obama Touts Government Investment in Electric Vehicle Factory
-- Nicholas Johnston
-- 2010-07-08T17:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/obama-touts-government-investment-in-electric-vehicle-factory.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said a  $32
million government grant  to a maker of battery-driven trucks is
an example of how government funding can help businesses
generate jobs as the nation recovers from a “brutal
recession.”  
 “Government doesn’t have all the answers, and it cannot
generate the jobs or growth we need by itself,” Obama will say
today after touring the  Smith Electric Vehicles  factory in
Kansas City, Missouri. “But government can lay the foundation
for small businesses to expand and hire,” he will say,
according to a text of his prepared remarks released by the
White House.  
 Obama is on a two-day trip to Missouri and Nevada to stump
for his economic policies and raise money for Democratic Senate
candidates. Tomorrow he’ll also give a speech on the economy in
Las Vegas.  
 The economy, jobs and the  deficit  are likely to be top
issues in the November elections that will decide control of
Congress. Obama today defended the $862 billion economic
stimulus measure Congress passed soon after he took office,
which Republicans have criticized as wasteful. And as he has
stepped up his defense of his own policies, he has increased his
attacks on Republicans.  
 ‘Political Calculation’  
 “There are those who argue that we ought to abandon our
efforts - and others who have made the political calculation
that it’s better to obstruct than lend a hand,” Obama said in
his speech text. “They ought to tell the workers of Smith
Electric that we’d be better off if your jobs didn’t exist.”  
 The U.S. economy is struggling to recover from the worst
recession since the 1930s, with 83,000 private jobs added in
June and  unemployment  at 9.5 percent.  
 Without the government action, Obama said the economy faced
“a nosedive that threatened to drag us into a second Great
Depression.” He said he expects energy investments alone to
“generate 700,000 jobs over the next few years” nationwide.  
 The administration has highlighted government’s investment
at Smith Electric, which was matched by $36 million of the
company’s money, as an example of how the government can help
the private sector create jobs.  
 The Smith Electric factory will eventually employ about 70
people and build about 500 battery-powered commercial trucks per
year,  Matt Rogers , an adviser to Energy Secretary  Steven Chu ,
told reporters yesterday.  
 Purchase Capital  
 “The intent of the funding here is to enable Smith to
purchase the capital equipment necessary to get this
manufacturing assembly line operational,” he said.  
 The company plans to build as many as 20 factories around
the country.  
 “This is a microcosm of precisely what needs to keep
happening,” said  Jared Bernstein , Vice President  Joe Biden ’s
top economic adviser.  
 Later today in Kansas City, Obama will attend fundraisers
for Missouri Democratic Senate Candidate  Robin Carnahan  in
Kansas City.  
 Tonight he’ll raise money in Las Vegas for  Harry Reid  of
Nevada, the top Democrat in the Senate, and tomorrow he’ll give
a speech on the economy before returning to Washington.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Kansas City, Missouri, at   njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     President Barack Obama is on a two-day trip to Missouri and Nevada to stump for his economic policies and raise money for Democratic Senate
candidates. Photographer: Gary Fabiano/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
