-- Obama Says Mideast Peace Agreement Can Be Reached During His First Term
-- Louis Meixler
-- 2010-07-08T19:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/obama-says-mideast-peace-agreement-could-be-reached-during-his-first-term.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said an Arab-
Israeli peace agreement could be reached in his first term and
warned that time is running out for Palestinian moderates who
are willing to make compromises.  
 When asked whether a Mideast deal could be concluded within
his first four years in office, Obama said: “I think so.”
Obama also said the timeframe for Palestinian moderates “may be
limited if they aren’t able to deliver for their people.” He
spoke in an interview on Israel’s Channel Two television.  
 Obama met with Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  in
Washington on July 6 and said that direct Israel-Palestinian
talks may get started within less than three months. Obama has
been trying to persuade Netanyahu and Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas  to move beyond the indirect talks they
have been conducting through U.S. Middle East envoy  George Mitchell  and hold face-to-face negotiations.  
 Netanyahu is interested “in being a statesman,” Obama
said in the broadcast. “The fact that he is not perceived as a
dove in some ways can be helpful.”  
 Netanyahu, whose Likud party supports Jewish settlement in
the West Bank, said today in New York that Israel is prepared to
make “far-ranging concessions” to achieve a political
solution.  
 Netanyahu “is somebody who understands that we’ve got a
fairly narrow window of opportunity,” Obama said.  
 ‘Result in Peace’  
 Abbas and Palestinian Authority Prime Minister  Salam Fayyad  are “willing to make the concessions and engage in
negotiations that can result in peace,” Obama said, cautioning
that there “is a constant contest between moderates and
rejectionists within the Arab world.”  
 “We probably won’t have a better opportunity than we have
right now and that has to be seized,” Obama said.  
 Abbas, who met with Obama at the White House on June 9, has
called for a halt to all settlement construction in the West
Bank and says he wants to see more progress in indirect talks
before moving to the negotiating table with Netanyahu.  
 “The Israeli people are going to have to overcome
legitimate skepticism, more than legitimate fears in order to
get a change that I think will secure Israel for another 60
years,” Obama said.  
 Obama and Netanyahu also conferred in Washington on what
they say is the threat of a nuclear-armed Iran.  
 “All indicators are that they are in fact pursuing a
nuclear weapon,” Obama said in today’s broadcast. “I assure
you I have not taken options off the table.”  
 Iran Sanctions  
 Netanyahu praised sanctions that Obama signed into law last
week targeting Iranian gasoline imports and banking access as
measures that “bite.” The United Nations Security Council
imposed a fourth round of sanctions on Iran June 9 over its
nuclear development.  
 In the Channel Two interview, Obama, when asked about the
possibility of Israel launching a unilateral attack on Iran,
said he did not believe Netanyahu would surprise him. “We try
to coordinate on issues of mutual concern,” he said.  
 Asked about why some Israelis doubt his support for the
country, Obama said “some of it may just be the fact that my
middle name is Hussein and that creates suspicion, some of it
may have to do with the fact that I have actively reached out to
the Muslim community.”  
 “The truth of the matter is that my outreach to the Muslim
community is designed precisely to reduce the antagonism and the
dangers posed by a hostile Muslim world to Israel and to the
West,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Louis Meixler  in Jerusalem at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        