-- Obama's Health Website Uses Twitter, YouTube to Help Navigate Benefits
-- Drew Armstrong
-- 2010-07-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/obama-s-health-website-uses-twitter-youtube-to-help-navigate-benefits.html

          
          
             HealthCare.gov  is the U.S.
government’s effort to help consumers understand how they’ll be
affected by the 907-page health overhaul signed into law three
months ago.  
 The website, started July 1 by the Department of Health and
Human Services, offers an insurance plan finder, a rolling
Twitter feed to distribute information on policy changes (1,260
followers and counting) and  YouTube.com -hosted videos of senior
citizens, young adults, pregnant women, and disabled people
explaining the law’s benefits from the Obama administration’s
point of view. It also provides a breakdown of the legislation,
Bloomberg’s Businessweek reports in its July 12 issue.  
 Republicans in Congress have criticized the
administration’s use of official communications on the health
law as playing politics by using government resources for
Democratic Party propaganda. In May, Michigan Representative
 Dave Camp , the House Ways and Means Committee’s top Republican,
called an administration mailing on Medicare changes in the law
“blatantly political.”  
 The site’s purpose is “to help consumers take health care
into their own hands,” said Todd Park, chief technology officer
at HHS. It’s the first website to pull together insurance
options for individuals and small businesses and incorporate
public programs and benefits with private insurance.  
 Spokesmen for Camp and Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky said they had no comment on the merits of
the website.  
 Overhaul Timeline  
 In a  section  called “What’s Changing and When,” users can
click through a timeline to find out what the law requires to
happen in 2011, or 2014, or later this year. A section on
“Strengthening Medicare” breaks out recent developments, such
as a $350 million anti-fraud effort.  
 “I think this is going to be an extraordinarily helpful
tool,” said  Ron Pollack , executive director of Washington-based
consumer group Families USA, which supported passage of the
health overhaul. “It’ll be the first time in any single place
you can find all of the different kinds of insurance coverage
that are available to you, both private insurance as well as
public coverage.”  
 That’s the goal. The function to help people find insurance
coverage lists the companies that have policies though prices
won’t be available until Oct. 1. “We started building the site
90 days ago,” Park said, calling the current version “just the
beginning.”  
 The new website may be a dry run for 2014, when the
government will begin supporting insurance “exchanges” that
sell health-plan coverage, said Alec Vachon, a Washington-based
health care consultant and former Republican Senate aide. “This
is health exchange zero-point-five.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        