-- London Metal Exchange Opens Asia Office, Discusses Singapore Cooperation
-- Claire Leow
-- 2010-07-08T08:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/london-metal-exchange-in-talks-with-sgx-on-cooperatio-opens-asia-office.html

          
          
             The London Metal Exchange has entered
discussions with  Singapore Exchange Ltd . on the possibility of
cooperation, the U.K. bourse said today, as it opened its first
overseas office.  
 “It will open up many new opportunities for the LME as
well as allowing us to maximize our existing significant trading
footprint in Asian markets,”  Martin Abbott , chief executive of
the LME, said today in a statement without elaborating. The
exchange will also add another warehouse location in Asia by the
end of the year, he said.  
 The 133-year-old metal’s bourse, the worldwide price-setter
for commodities like copper, is expanding into Asia as it seeks
to attract greater interest from regional investors. Trading
volumes on exchanges in China gained to the highest ever last
year as new contracts were introduced and strong demand drove
imports of copper, soybeans and iron ore to records.  
 “Most Asian trading is on the Select platform and
represents about 5 percent of our volume,” Liz Milan, managing
director for LME Asia, said at a news briefing in Singapore,
where the bourse’s regional office is located. Select is the
exchange’s electronic trading system.  
 Magnus Bocker , CEO of Singapore Exchange, declined to say
what the discussions were about, saying only it would “maximize
their potential in a number of mutually beneficial areas.”  
 Hedging and investing in LME contracts has increased in
Asia because of their relevance to industrializing and emerging
markets, the exchange said in a statement. The LME handled $7.41
trillion of contracts last year, including 49.7 million in
aluminum, 26.5 million in copper and about 30,000 in
Mediterranean steel billet.  
 The LME has warehouses in Singapore, South Korea, Malaysia
and Dubai and “we are looking to grow that footprint,” Milan
said. The warehousing must be near a net consumption hub, Abbott
said. “If Singapore goes fully containerized we have to find
alternatives,” Abbott said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Claire Leow in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        