-- Mongolia to Offer 30% of Tavan Tolgoi Coking Coal Deposit in Share Sales
-- John Duce
-- 2010-07-08T05:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/mongolia-to-offer-30-of-tavan-tolgoi-coking-coal-deposit-in-share-sales.html

          
          
             Mongolia plans to sell 30 percent of
a company controlling the Tavan Tolgoi coking coal deposit in
share sales to help fund $1.5 billion of initial development
cost, the mining minister said.  
 The share offerings may take place overseas or in Mongolia
and a government-owned company will retain a 40 percent stake,
Minister for Minerals and Energy  Dashdorj Zorigt  said in a
telephone interview, after a parliamentary vote yesterday. The
rest will be offered to local businesses and the public, he said,
without giving details.  
 Tavan Tolgoi holds about 6 billion metric tons of coal in
the deserts of southern Mongolia, making it one of the world’s
largest unexploited reserves of the fuel. Mongolia, which shares
a border with China and Russia, is seeking greater control over
its resources and said this year it wants to retain ownership of
new mines. Foreign companies have expressed interests in
developing the mine as early as 2004.  
 “Finally there is clarity in terms of the government
policy and the way to move forward,” said  Alisher Ali Djumanov ,
chief executive officer of Eurasia Capital Management, based in
Beijing. “We would be a buyer considering the strong long-term
potential of this company and the coal sector in Mongolia.”  
 About 20 percent of the share capital of the company will
be offered to Mongolian businesses and 10 percent to the public,
Zorigt said. No timetable has been set for the share sales
overseas or a preference made for where they should be held, he
said.  
 Overseas Companies  
 The government is still negotiating with overseas mining
companies over whether they will help develop Tavan Tolgoi on a
contract basis, said Zorigt. The government will report back to
parliament on the issue later this year, he said.  
 Among the companies that have publicly said they are
interested in developing Tavan Tolgoi is China Shenhua Energy
Co., the biggest Chinese coal producer.  
 “We are now working to develop Tavan Tolgoi as fast as we
can,” said Zorigt. “We hope to go into production in one or
two years.”  
 Mongolia wants to boost living standards in the nation of
about 2.7 million people, where average per capita income is
about $2,000 a year.  
 Rio Tinto Group and Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. are developing the
Oyu Tolgoi copper mine in Mongolia. The project, which London-
based Rio has called the world’s largest untapped copper and
gold resource, may operate for as long as 30 years and generate
$30 billion to $50 billion in revenue, Mongolian President
Tsakhia Elbegdorj said in September last year.  
 BHP Billition Ltd., Mitsui & Co., Xstrata Plc, OAO Russian
Railways and Sojitz Corp. are also among the companies with
which the government has been negotiating this year on Tavan
Tolgoi rights, Zorigt said in a Dec. 3 interview.  
 Imports of coal by China in the first quarter of this year
more than tripled to 44.4 million tons, according to customs
data. China’s coking coal imports may reach the second highest
on record this year as domestic production can’t meet demand
from steelmakers, Citigroup Inc. said on April 22.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        