-- Monsanto to Pay $2.5 Million Penalty for MisbrandingViolations, EPA Says
-- Jack Kaskey
-- 2010-07-08T20:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/monsanto-to-pay-2-5-million-penalty-for-misbrandingviolations-epa-says.html

          
          
             Monsanto Co. , the world’s largest
seed maker, agreed to pay a $2.5 million fine for failing to
disclose to buyers of its insect-killing  cotton seed  that the
product wasn’t approved for planting in certain parts of Texas.  
 Monsanto’s Bollgard and Bollgard II cotton seed was banned
in 10 Texas counties to prevent insects from becoming resistant
to insecticide contained in the genetically modified plants, the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said today in a statement.
Monsanto failed to include the restriction on the products’
grower guides sold nationwide from 2002 to 2007.  
 The fine is the largest civil administrative penalty
collected under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and
Rodenticide Act, the EPA said. Monsanto discovered the error in
2006, reported the omission to the EPA and initiated an outreach
program in Texas, the St. Louis-based company said.  
 “We take full responsibility for this oversight,” John
Chambers, Monsanto’s head of cotton product management, said in
a  statement  posted on the company website. “We are committed to
compliance with the terms of our EPA registrations.”  
 Monsanto said no insect resistance developed in the
affected area and EPA approved Bollgard II for planting in the
10 counties in 2008. The cotton is engineered to produce the
insecticide Bacillus thuringiensis, or Bt.  
 The cotton-planting restrictions were part of an agreement
that allowed farmers in the Texas Panhandle to reduce the amount
of conventional corn that must be planted alongside corn that
contains the Bt insecticide, Monsanto said. Corn was the
predominant crop in the 10 Texas counties where the restrictions
were placed, the company said.  
 Monsanto  rose  40 cents to $47.72 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  The shares  have declined 42
percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        