-- Mortgage Refinance `Wavelet' Attracting Better-Credit Borrowers, Data Show
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-07-08T15:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/mortgage-refinance-wavelet-attracting-better-credit-borrowers-data-show.html

          
          
             Mortgage  refinancing  rose as home-
loan rates began falling to record lows mostly among better-
credit borrowers who took out loans in recent years at
relatively low costs, bond prepayment reports show.  
 The constant prepayment rate, or CPR, for Fannie Mae’s 30-
year fixed-rate securities with 4.5 percent coupons issued in
2008 jumped an estimated 24 percent from the previous month to
16.3 in June, after stripping out the effects of the Washington-
based company’s purchases of delinquent loans from the bonds,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said, based on data released yesterday.  
 At the same time, the adjusted CPR, or the share of debt
that would be retired in a year at the current pace, for 2007
bonds carrying 6.5 percent coupons, reflecting higher rates for
their underlying loans, fell almost 12 percent to 12.5. The
disparity underscores how borrowers most in need are among the
least able to lower their financing costs after slumping
property  prices  cut home equity and tightened lending standards.  
 “Today’s prepayment report signaled the arrival of the
2010 refi ‘wavelet,’” JPMorgan analysts led  Brian Ye  in New
York wrote in report yesterday. “We use this term ‘wavelet’
because our overall theme of tame prepayments remains absolutely
intact.”  
 For McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac’s 30-year
securities, prepayment speeds on 4.5 percent bonds jumped 71
percent to 8.4 CPR, while those for 6.5 percent securities rose
2.6 percent to 24.1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Average Rates  
 The  average rate  on a typical 30-year mortgage tumbled to a
record low 4.57 percent in the week ended today, down from this
year’s high of 5.21 percent in April, according to Freddie Mac.
Rates averaged about 4.87 percent in May; loans usually close a
month or two after applications.  
 Credit Suisse Group analysts said in a report that
prepayment speeds among lower-coupon, more-recent securities
were “slightly faster than our estimates,” while bonds with
higher coupons prepaid slower than expected.  
 The data “underscores our arguments that any refi activity
will be very narrowly focused,” supporting prices for higher-
coupon bonds and slices of collateralized mortgage obligations
created out of them such as interest-only securities, the New
York-based analysts led by  Mahesh Swaminathan  wrote.  
 Aggregate prepayment speeds for Fannie Mae’s 30-year
securities fell 37 percent to 17.5 CPR as the company’s buyouts
of delinquent loans to reduce its expenses slowed, the JPMorgan
data show. Speeds for similar bonds guaranteed by Freddie Mac,
which eliminated earlier its backlog of repurchases of loans
more than 120 days delinquent, rose 20 percent to 17.2 CPR.  
 Newer Issues  
 “The distribution of prepay increases by coupon and
vintage was stark, with newer lower coupons bearing the brunt,”
 Anish Lohokare , head of mortgage-bond strategy in New York at
BNP Paribas, wrote in a note to clients.  
 Loans from more recent years are expected to refinance more
quickly because the homeowners qualified under tougher standards
and haven’t seen their equity erased by the about 30 percent
decline in home prices since their 2007 peak, according to an
 S&P/Case Shiller index . For example, the CPR for Freddie Mac’s 5
percent 30-year securities from 2009 almost doubled last month
to 14.6 CPR, while speeds for similar 2007 securities climbed 23
percent to 20.5, according to BNP.  
 Borrowers with loans with higher rates may be “starting to
show significant burnout after a year and half of elevated refi
incentive,” as well as getting less attention from mortgage
companies “given capacity constraints in the system” as those
“lenders scrambled to close loans for prime borrowers
(presumably prime borrowers with clean credit carry larger loans
and may be less constrained to a single lender),” JPMorgan
said.  
 Freddie Mac’s 6 percent and 6.5 percent securities
“managed to eke out a small gain in speeds,” the JPMorgan
analysts said. “This suggests that super premium speeds can
still increase, however minuscule.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        