-- U.K. House Prices Declined 0.6% in June on Increased Supply, Halifax Says
-- Simon Kennedy
-- 2010-07-08T11:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/house-prices-declined-by-0-6-in-june-on-increased-supply-halifax-reports.html

          
          
             U.K.  house prices  fell the most in
four months in June as an increase in supply countered demand
pressures, Halifax said.  
 Prices fell 0.6 percent in June after a revised 0.5 percent
decline in May, the mortgage lending division of Lloyds Banking
Group Plc said in an e-mailed statement today in London.
Economists had forecast a 0.2 percent gain, according to the
median of eight forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 The report “stokes our relative pessimism over the housing
market,” said  Howard Archer , chief U.K. and European economist
at IHS Global Insight in London. “We increasingly suspect that
house prices will be only flat over the rest of this year. We
had previously thought a small rise was possible.”  
 The Bank of England today kept its  bond-stimulus plan  in
place and left its benchmark interest  rate  at a record low to
help prevent the economic recovery from stalling during the
biggest budget squeeze since World War II. Even with borrowing
costs at a record low,  mortgage approvals  are at about half the
level they were at the peak of the housing boom. The Council of
Lenders said on June 18 that the market remains “subdued.”  
 The average cost of a U.K. home rose 6.3 percent from a
year earlier to 166,203 pounds ($251,581), Halifax said. That
was slower than May’s 6.9 percent increase, the fastest since
October 2007. Prices are 7.5 percent above their April 2009
trough, while 17 percent below their peak of August 2007.  
 Second Quarter  
 Prices in the second quarter of 2010 were 0.1 percent lower
than in the previous three months, Halifax said.  
 While the low level of interest rates “continues to
support housing demand, an increase in properties for sale is
“relieving the upward pressure on prices,” Halifax economist
 Martin Ellis  said in the statement. “This pattern is in line
with our view that house prices will be broadly unchanged over
2010 as a whole.”  
 British house prices fell 0.5 percent in June from the
previous month, reducing annual gains to 7.7 percent,
Acadametrics and LSL Property Services said in a separate
e-mailed report today.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        