-- Toyota Supplier Denso to Expand Production in China Even as Wages Increase
-- Yuki Hagiwara
-- 2010-07-09T07:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/toyota-supplier-denso-to-expand-production-in-china-even-as-wages-increase.html

          
          
             Denso Corp. , Toyota Motor Corp.’s
largest component supplier, plans to expand production capacity
in China during the next 12 months as rising demand outweighs
concerns that labor costs in the nation will increase.  
 Denso, the world’s biggest listed auto parts maker, will
add “several hundred thousand units” of capacity in China,
mostly to make air conditioners for cars, Chief Executive
Officer  Nobuaki Katoh  said. One of Denso’s joint-venture plants
in China halted production for four and a half days in June as
workers walked out demanding higher wages.  
 “Demand in China is very strong,” Chief Executive Officer
 Nobuaki Katoh  said in an interview on July 7 in Kariya, Japan,
where the company is based. “We need to add to our readiness
step by step.”  
 Passenger-car sales in China, the world’s largest auto
market, rose 10.9 percent from a year earlier to 839,228 units
in June as the economy expanded 11.9 percent in the first
quarter. Toyota plans to start building 100,000 Corolla cars a
year at its factory in Changchun in the first half of 2012.
 Honda Motor Co. , Japan’s second-largest carmaker, aims to expand
capacity in China by 28 percent by the second half of 2012.  
 At least eight strikes since May have forced suppliers to
Toyota, Honda and Nissan Motor Co. to raise wages in China,
increasing carmakers’ costs. Honda agreed to offer a 24 percent
pay increase to 1,910 yuan ($282) a month to workers at Honda
Auto Parts Manufacturing Co. in Foshan, Guangdong.  
 Profit Forecast  
 Denso  rose  1.8 percent to close at 2,602 yen today in Tokyo
trading, trimming its loss this year to 6.4 percent. Toyota
declined 0.3 percent.  
 Denso hasn’t disclosed how much it raised wages to end the
walkout at Denso Guangzhou Nansha Co., a joint venture in
Guangzhou, Guangdong province.  
 Wages will probably continue to rise in China, and “there
isn’t much impact on our profitability,” Katoh said. “Having
more frequent conversations with employees and deepening
communication is the most fundamental way” to avert further
strikes, Katoh said.  
 Profit  this year may exceed Denso’s forecast on strong
sales in Japan and the U.S., Katoh said. Expiring subsidies for
cars in Japan in September and possible declining consumer
confidence in Europe have made the outlook for the second half
of this year less certain, he said.  
 Production Costs  
 Denso, which makes battery-control computers and electric-
current sensors for Toyota’s gasoline-electric hybrid cars, said
on April 28 it expects net income to rise more than 30 percent
to 98 billion yen ($1.1 billion) in the year ending March 31.
Profit may be as much as 114 billion yen, according to the
average of 15 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Denso is aiming to halve its production costs for parts to
be used in carmakers’ low-cost models for emerging markets,
Katoh said. The company will increase procurement of materials
and components in the countries it sells in, he said.  
 Toyota will start selling the low-cost Etios compact in
India later this year, and Nissan plans to sell a $3,000 car
built by Bajaj Auto Ltd. Denso already supplies wipers to Tata
Motors Ltd.’s Nano, the world’s cheapest car.  
 Denso’s main rival is Germany’s Robert Bosch GmbH. While
growth is important, the company doesn’t focus on expanding
 market share  for the sake of being number one, Katoh said. “You
lose modesty that way,” he said. “It doesn’t put the customer
first.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nobuaki Katoh, chief executive officer of Denso Corp. Source: Denso Corp. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- At least nine Chinese provinces and cities raised minimum wages by as much as a third today after Premier Wen Jiabao called for measures to head off growing worker unrest in the world’s third-largest economy. Bloomberg's Stephen Engle reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
