-- Toyota to Add New U.S. Product Quality Field Offices to Handle Defects
-- Alan Ohnsman
-- 2010-07-08T05:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/toyota-to-add-new-u-s-product-quality-field-offices-to-handle-defects.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s
biggest carmaker, said it will add new product quality field
offices in the U.S. and Canada to speed investigations of
vehicle defects after its worst recall crisis.  
 The automaker will add seven North American field
service offices, bringing the total to 21, including one
being set up in San Francisco this month to specialize in
hybrid vehicles,  Dino Triantafyllos , vice president of
Toyota’s U.S. quality division, told reporters today in
Toyota City, Japan, where the company is based.  
 “These steps are more than fixing past mistakes,”
Triantafyllos said.  
 Toyota is working to regain its reputation for quality
after  recalling  about 8 million vehicles worldwide for
defects linked to unintended acceleration. The company is
preparing to recall 270,000 Lexus and Toyota cars for a flaw
that may cause engines to stall and it faces further
questions from a U.S. congressional committee about vehicle
safety.  
 The automaker’s field service offices will each focus on
specific problems, Triantafyllos said, without saying what
the budget is for the operations. Hybrid issues will be
addressed in the San Francisco office; heating, cooling,
ventilation in Jacksonville, Florida; trucks and chassis
components in Houston; and high altitude issues and sport-
utility vehicles in Denver, Colorado, he said.  
 The company “will spend whatever we think is
necessary” for quality-related operations, said Hiroaki
Sunakawa, general manager of Toyota’s customer quality
engineering division.  
 Toyota’s engineers have reviewed cases of unintended
acceleration and found no links to its electronics,
Triantafyllos said. The company has completed over 90 percent
of hybrid brake adjustments and more than 4 million fixes for
acceleration recalls, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Toyota City at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        