-- Paterson's 6,700 Vetoes Still Leave New York With Budget Gap, Analysts Say
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-07-08T16:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/paterson-s-6-700-vetoes-still-leave-new-york-with-budget-gap-analysts-say.html

          
          
             New York  Governor  David Paterson 
delivered 6,709  vetoes  -- a stack of paper 31 inches high -- to
absent lawmakers, trimming $805.3 million of spending that still
doesn’t close the state’s $9.2 billion deficit.  
 With its Senate adjourned, the nation’s third-biggest state
by population, has a spending plan without enough funds to pay
for it. The Senate didn’t act on a $1 billion revenue bill
passed by the Assembly, and neither chamber planned for the
chance that about $1 billion of federal Medicaid assistance
wouldn’t arrive. The U.S. Senate blocked the money.  
 Without a revenue bill, a projected cash squeeze in
September becomes worse and “the state will run out of money in
about a month-and-a-half,” Paterson said today in an interview
on New York City radio station  WOR .  
 A school-aid payment due Sept. 1, before tax receipts
arrive mid-month, “will put pressure on cash and may require
payment to be made on a more staggered basis,” as was done in
March and June of this year, as well as December 2009, said Erik
Kriss, a spokesman for the Division of Budget.  
 Cash projections show a balance of $3.35 billion at the end
of August and $3.26 billion at the end of September, according
to budget  documents.   
 Even if the revenue bill passes the Senate, the budget
contains dubious spending and revenue assumptions that open the
door to a mid-year deficit, according to analysts at the  Empire
Center  and  Citizens Budget Commission , two independent watchdog
groups.  
 ‘House of Cards’  
 “The state’s 2010-2011 budget, like its deficit-ridden
predecessor, shapes up as a flimsy house of cards that could
begin to collapse before the year is out,” E.J. McMahon,
director of the Albany, New York-based Empire Center, said
yesterday in a  review  of the financial plan.  
 Questionable savings include $250 million from state
workers whose unions won their lawsuit to block a furlough plan,
and $300 million from a still-to-be named developer for a slot-
machine parlor at the Aqueduct Racetrack, McMahon said. Other
doubtful savings or revenue gains total $440 million, he said.  
 Lawmakers have fallen $465 million short of closing the
budget deficit, according to  Elizabeth Lynam , deputy research
director at the Citizens Budget Commission in New York City. The
spending plan also includes $2.4 billion in revenue, spending
and savings assumptions that may miss their targets.  
 ‘Return to Albany’  
 “The spending cuts are of decent amounts and recurring,”
Lynam said in a telephone interview. Given the risks to their
plan, lawmakers “should keep their overnight bags packed for a
return to Albany before election day,” she said in a  report .  
 The spending plan will be in balance if the Senate passes
the revenue  bill , the Legislature doesn’t override Paterson’s
vetoes and the extra Medicaid money arrives, said Kriss.  
 The budget  proposed  by Paterson and the budget office in
January included many of the savings and new revenue measures
that outside groups say are questionable. The state’s financial
plan and monthly cash-flow projections will be updated later
this month to add the three months through June 30, Kriss said.  
 Last year, the state never eliminated $2 billion of a $20
billion deficit, when it shifted some school aid to the current
period. As a result, this year’s gap widened by about $2
billion, Budget Director  Robert Megna  said.  
 “The governor has to propose a balanced budget, but
there’s no such requirement for the Legislature,” said  Robert Ward , deputy director at the Albany-based  Rockefeller Institute
of Government . If the Legislature’s spending plan isn’t
balanced, “you just cross your fingers and hope there’s no
problem,” he said.  
 Balanced Budget  
 Lawmakers have estimated that their bills balanced the
$135.7 billion budget, which rose 2 percent from a year earlier,
only the fourth time in the past 30 years that spending grew
more slowly than inflation, said  Austin Shafran , a spokesman for
Senate Democratic leader  John Sampson  of Brooklyn.  
 Assuming the revenue bill passes the Senate, the $9.2
billion  gap  will be closed, Shafran said. Among deficit-
reduction measures are $5.2 billion in new spending cuts and
$700 million imposed last year and continued this year, he said.  
 Revenue increases from new taxes and fees, including
extending the sales tax to clothing purchases of less than $110,
will reach $1 billion, Shafran said. Additional revenue of $525
million is projected, including $275 million from increased tax
collections, and one-time items will reach $1.8 billion,
including the extra federal Medicaid payments, Shafran said.  
 Passed Piecemeal  
 After the budget was passed piecemeal, through a series of
emergency spending bills, lawmakers and Paterson’s estimates of
outlays differed. The Budget Division project $134.4 billion in
outlays this year, up 2.4 percent from  last year , said Kriss.
Both the budget office estimate and the Legislature’s higher
figure reflect the $2 billion shift in school-aid payments from
last year.  
 Empire’s McMahon faulted the incomplete plan for relying on
$5.7 billion of federal aid that was part of the U.S. economic-
stimulus package, a set of temporary measures that helped to
push spending up 8.4 percent from three years earlier. New
York’s outlays “must be permanently cut or funded with tax
increases in order to balance the budget after the stimulus
expires,” McMahon said.  
 For the next fiscal year, which starts April 1, the Budget
Division estimates a $7 billion deficit, which could grow by
$1.06 billion if the federal government doesn’t provide
increased Medicaid funds, Kriss said. In the beginning of 2012,
temporary income-tax rate increases that raised about $3.5
billion last year are scheduled to expire.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        