-- Peru May Raise Rate for Third Month to 2% as Growth Stirs Inflation Threat
-- John Quigley
-- 2010-07-08T16:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/peru-may-raise-rate-for-third-month-to-2-as-growth-stirs-inflation-threat.html

          
          
             Peru’s central bank may raise its
benchmark lending rate today for a third straight month to
prevent faster-than-forecast economic recovery from stirring
inflationary pressures.  
 The seven-member board, led by President  Julio Velarde ,
will probably increase its reference rate by a quarter point to
2 percent from 1.75 percent, according to all 17 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. The board will announce its decision
after 6 p.m. New York time.  
 Policy makers raised the  benchmark rate  by a quarter
percentage point at the past two meetings and have increased
banks’ reserve requirements as the economy returns to pre-crisis
 growth rates . After the slowest expansion since 2001 last year,
increased company spending and rising inflows have helped push
South America’s sixth-biggest economy to its fastest growth
since 2008.  
 “The pace of economic activity is very strong,” said  Hugo Perea , chief economist at BBVA Banco Continental, in a phone
interview from Lima. “The bank can’t wait for demand pressures
to start fueling inflation -- it has to act in a forward-looking
manner.”  
 Peru was the second Latin American country after Brazil to
raise borrowing costs in 2010 as a recovery in private
investment spurs domestic demand. Chile increased its lending
rate by 0.5 point in June from a record low as economic growth
accelerates at the fastest pace in five years.  
 Peru’s $129 billion economy is in a “sweet spot” as it
rebounds amid tame inflation, Velarde said June 18.  
 ‘Major Growth’  
 The bank in June raised its 2010 growth forecast to 6.6
percent, up from 5.5 percent.  Annual inflation  may accelerate to
2 percent to 2.5 percent by year-end, the lowest rate among
Latin America’s major economies, according to the bank.  
 Peru’s economy expanded 9.3 percent in April, higher than
the 8.8 percent median forecast of nine economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Economic indicators for May suggest growth held near
9 percent as a result of the low comparative base, Perea said.
Gross domestic product shrank 1.2 percent in the second quarter
of 2009 from a year earlier, its first  quarterly reduction  in
eight years.  
 Domestic cement consumption, the principal indicator of
construction output, jumped 19 percent in May, the national
statistics office said. Electricity output rose 7.8 percent and
agriculture expanded 3.2 percent. Mortgage loans climbed 16
percent.  
 “Peru has seen impressive growth in domestic tourism,
which helped compensate for the decline in foreign tourists
earlier this year,”  Juan Stoessel , managing director of  Casa
Andina , the country’s largest hotel chain, said in an interview
in Lima. “This is clearly because the economy is seeing major
growth.”  
 Foreign Demand  
 Surging output has led to a rise in foreign demand for
Peru’s sol and government bonds. The central bank resumed dollar
purchases in the foreign exchange market last month after a two-
month pause as the sol rose to a 22-month high.  
 The currency has strengthened 2.3 percent this year, the
fifth-best performance among 26 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The central bank bought $3.2 billion in
the first half of this year, which helped lift net  foreign
currency reserves  to $35.3 billion, a two-year high.  
 The yield on Peru’s benchmark 8.6 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2017 has fallen 40 basis points, or 0.40
percentage point, to 5.65 percent in the last month, according
to Citigroup Inc.’s local unit.  
 To curb volatility in the local currency, the central bank
increased reserve requirements this month for foreign currency
accounts and borrowings abroad maturing in less than two years.  
 Winding Down Stimulus  
 Banks must also hold reserves of at least 7 percent of
their lending portfolios in their own vaults, up from 6 percent.
The central bank last raised reserve requirements in July 2008.  
 Adjusting the reserve mandate has a greater impact than the
reference rate on the riskiest forms of credit, such as consumer
loans, according to the central bank.  
 Still, company and household loans climbed 15 percent in
the first half of June from a year earlier, the central bank
said.  
 The reserve adjustment is equivalent to an increase of half
a percentage point in the reference rate, Scotiabank Peru
analyst  Mario Guerrero  wrote in a July 5 report. The measure
makes it less likely the central bank will raise the rate by
more than 25 basis points at today’s meeting, he said.  
 Annual inflation  accelerated to 1.64 percent in June, the
fastest pace since August 2009, on higher food costs. Consumer
prices climbed 0.25 percent from May.  
 The central bank will withdraw monetary stimulus at a pace
determined by economic data “in the coming months,” Velarde
said June 18.  
 Peru’s  imports  jumped 41 percent to $2.2 billion in May,
led by industrial equipment and vehicles, exporter group
Comexperu said.  Exports  rose 8 percent to $2.3 billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        