-- Peru Raises Benchmark Rate to 2% as Rebound Raises Threat of Inflation
-- John Quigley
-- 2010-07-08T23:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/peru-raises-key-interest-rate-to-2-as-rebound-raises-threat-of-inflation.html

          
          
             Peru’s central bank raised its
benchmark lending rate for a third consecutive month today to
prevent the faster-than-forecast economic recovery from stoking
inflationary pressures.  
 The seven-member board, led by bank President  Julio Velarde , increased its reference rate by a quarter point to 2
percent, matching the forecasts of all 17 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg.  
 Policy makers raised the  benchmark rate  from a record-low
level earlier this year and have increased banks’ reserve
requirements as the economy returns to pre-crisis  growth rates .
After the slowest expansion since 2001 last year, higher company
spending and rising inflows have helped push South America’s
sixth-biggest economy to its fastest growth since 2008.  
 “The central bank is moving policy toward a neutral
position as a preventive measure,” said  Hugo Perea , chief
economist at BBVA Banco Continental, in an interview from Lima.
“The economy will grow more in line with potential in the third
quarter so fiscal and monetary stimulus can be withdrawn.”  
 Annual inflation  accelerated for the second month in June,
quickening to 1.64 percent, the fastest pace since August 2009,
on higher food costs. Prices rose 0.25 percent from May.  
 “The increase in the reference rate is of a preventive
nature,” policy makers said in a statement accompanying their
decision. “Public and private spending have registered
significant growth so far this year, which is reflected in
production indicators showing a rapid economic recovery.”  
 ‘Sweet Spot’  
 Peru was the second Latin American country after Brazil to
raise borrowing costs in 2010 as a recovery in private
investment spurs domestic demand. Chile increased its lending
rate by 0.5 point in June from a record low as economic growth
accelerates at the fastest pace in five years.  
 Peru’s $129 billion economy is in a “sweet spot” as it
rebounds amid tame inflation, Velarde said June 18.  
 The bank in June raised its 2010 growth forecast to 6.6
percent, up from 5.5 percent.  Annual inflation  may accelerate to
2 percent to 2.5 percent by year-end, the lowest rate among
Latin America’s major economies, according to the bank.  
 Peru’s economy expanded 9.3 percent in April, exceeding the
8.8 percent median forecast of nine economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Economic indicators for May suggest growth held near
9 percent as a result of the low comparative base, Perea said.  
 Economic Indicators  
 Domestic cement consumption, the principal indicator of
construction output, jumped 19 percent in May, the national
statistics office said. Electricity output rose 7.8 percent and
agriculture expanded 3.2 percent. Mortgage loans climbed 16
percent.  
 “Peru has seen impressive growth in domestic tourism,
which helped compensate for the decline in foreign tourists
earlier this year,”  Juan Stoessel , managing director of  Casa
Andina , the country’s largest hotel chain, said in an interview
in Lima. “This is clearly because the economy is seeing major
growth.”  
 Surging output has led to a rise in foreign demand for
Peru’s sol and government bonds. The central bank resumed dollar
purchases in the foreign exchange market last month after a two-
month pause as the sol rose to a 22-month high.  
 The currency has strengthened 2.3 percent this year, the
fifth-best performance among 26 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The central bank bought $3.2 billion in
the first half of this year, which helped lift net  foreign
currency reserves  to $35.3 billion, a two-year high.  
 Winding Down Stimulus  
 The yield on Peru’s benchmark 8.6 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2017 has fallen 40 basis points in the last
month, or 0.4 percentage point, to 5.65 percent, according to
Citigroup Inc.’s local unit.  
 To curb volatility in the local currency, the central bank
increased reserve requirements this month for foreign currency
accounts and borrowings abroad maturing in less than two years.  
 Banks must also hold reserves of at least 7 percent of
their lending portfolios in their own vaults, up from 6 percent.
The central bank last raised reserve requirements in July 2008.  
 Adjusting the reserve mandate has a greater impact than the
reference rate on the riskiest forms of credit, such as consumer
loans, according to the central bank.  
 Still, company and household loans climbed 15 percent in
the first half of June from a year earlier, the central bank
said.  
 The reserve adjustment is equivalent to an increase of half
a percentage point in the reference rate, Scotiabank Peru
analyst  Mario Guerrero  wrote in a July 5 report.  
 The central bank will withdraw monetary stimulus at a pace
determined by economic data “in the coming months,” Velarde
said June 18.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        