-- Pfizer Spies Find Spanish Villa, Gold Rolex in Fake Viagra Bust
-- Simeon Bennett
-- 2010-07-08T10:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/pfizer-spies-uncover-spanish-villa-rolex-and-bentley-in-fake-viagra-bust.html

          
          
             With the millions he made peddling
fake Viagra, Martin Hickman bought a beachside villa on Spain’s
Costa del Sol, a diamond-studded Rolex and a flat in London.
Pfizer Inc. aims to make sure he never gets to enjoy them.  
 The spoils of Hickman’s crimes helped settle a trademark
infringement lawsuit brought by the world’s largest drugmaker
three years ago. It’s the biggest example of a new approach
Pfizer is taking to fight counterfeiting of prescription drugs,
an industry that’s almost doubled to $75 billion in five years,
according to the New York-based  Center for Medicine in the
Public Interest .  
 Pfizer, whose erectile dysfunction pill Viagra is one of
the most copied medicines, once relied on local authorities and
criminal courts to hunt down offenders. Now it’s hired former
U.S. customs officials, FBI agents, Turkish narcotics experts
and Hong Kong police to find counterfeiters. In China, they’re
tracking fakes to the source, raiding derelict warehouses for
evidence of illegal drug-making. In the U.K., they’re using
civil courts to hit fake pill peddlers where it hurts most.  
 “The point is to make them realize that there’s no sense
from a business perspective in counterfeiting our products,
because if we find you, we’re taking your money away,” says
 John P. Clark , a 55-year-old U.S. law enforcement veteran who
now serves as New York-based Pfizer’s chief security officer.  
 Pfizer estimates it has prevented about 58 million
counterfeit pills from reaching patients since 2004, worth more
than $860 million, according to Bloomberg calculations.  
 Tougher Stance  
 Clark spent 28 years in law enforcement, starting with
border patrols where he “learned Spanish and rode a horse,”
and ending as the top civil servant for  U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement , the agency responsible for stemming the
flow of narcotics into the U.S. and the flow of drug money out.  
 He joined Pfizer in 2008 to help the fight against fake
medicines by deploying the same tactic he used with cocaine
traffickers, gun runners and money launderers: pursuing civil
lawsuits and asset seizures. The company still works with police
and the criminal system to catch counterfeiters.  
 Hickman was one of the first test cases of Pfizer’s tougher
stance. Between 2003 and 2007 he sold more than 6 million pounds
($8.9 million) of bogus Viagra and another impotence drug on
about 150 websites, according to Britain’s  Medicines and
Healthcare products Regulatory Agency , or MHRA.  
 ‘Tidy Nest-Egg’  
 Hickman used the money to buy a four-bedroom farmhouse near
Manchester, a 2.5 million-pound flat in Chelsea, a villa near
Marbella, Spain, a  Bentley Arnage  and two Range Rovers. He also
had an insurance valuation for jewelry totaling 267,000 pounds,
including a diamond-studded gold Rolex watch and a Piaget watch
worth about 100,000 pounds each, and a Louis Vuitton bracelet
valued at 25,000 pounds, according to Pfizer.  
 In 2007 Hickman was sentenced to  three months in jail  for
contempt of court, less than a year after he was ordered to stop
advertising Viagra and another impotence pill on the Internet,
according to the MHRA. His websites kept operating, Pfizer said.  
 “A three-month penalty is not going to discourage you from
going back and doing it again,” Clark said in an interview in
Singapore. “You put your money offshore, it’s there in a little
tidy nest-egg, you come back out, you help fund your start-up
operation again, and you’re back in business.”  
 Money Laundering  
 Pfizer won permission from the High Court in London to raid
Hickman’s home and office and freeze his assets. The day he was
released, the company sued him for infringing its trademarks.
Within weeks, Hickman agreed to a 1 million-pound out-of-court
settlement, giving Pfizer a $769,600 net gain on the money it
spent investigating and suing him.  
 “Hopefully we made an impression on Mr. Hickman as to the
consequences of counterfeiting our product,” Clark said. “It
was a new way of doing business for Pfizer.”  
 Previously, the company would refer counterfeiting cases to
regulators and police for criminal prosecution. It still does,
though the addition of civil suits gives Pfizer an extra weapon,
and allows it to conduct investigations and raids itself with a
judge’s authorization, according to Clark.  
 In a  second criminal prosecution  in June last year,
Hickman pleaded guilty to six counts of selling and supplying
fake and unlicensed medicines and money laundering, and was
sentenced to two years’ jail, according to the MHRA. The
regulator is now taking legal action to seize his assets,
William Mach, a spokesman for the MHRA, said in an e-mail.  
 Making Pills  
 John Gollaglee , a lawyer for Hickman at Pannone LLP in
Manchester who represents Hickman in the criminal cases,
declined to comment. Alex Megaw, Hickman’s lawyer in the civil
suit brought by Pfizer, said he no longer acts for Hickman and
had no way of contacting him. He referred enquiries to Pannone.  
 Pfizer isn’t alone in taking civil action.  Eli Lilly & Co. ,
the maker of the impotence drug Cialis, investigates phony pill
makers with Pfizer because their products are often copied
together, said  Bruce Longbottom , legal counsel for Indianapolis-
based Lilly.  
 “The civil action gives the financial deterrent where
they’re actually hit in the pocket book,” Longbottom said in a
telephone interview. “We do think that sends a message that’s a
little bit different from what a criminal action might give
us.”  
 International criminal syndicates are increasingly turning
to prescription drugs because they offer higher returns and
lower risks than narcotics, according to  Aline Plancon , an
 Interpol  officer who works with police worldwide to investigate
counterfeiters.  
 “These people mastered the technology of making pills,
because they are doing narcotics,” she said. “They know that
the risks of being punished are low compared to the benefit.”  
 Growing Business  
 Plancon estimates that $1,000 spent making heroin can earn
a return of $20,000. The same investment in copied medicines can
earn as much as $450,000.  
 The global trade in counterfeit drugs will rise to $90
billion by 2015, according to the  Center for Medicine in the
Public Interest . The Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development says it’s hard to put a value on the problem because
of “a paucity of reliable data.” Trade in all counterfeit and
pirated goods rose to about  $250 billion  in 2007 from about $200
billion in 2005, the OECD estimated in November.  
 There were  2,003 discoveries  of counterfeit, illegally
diverted or stolen medicines worldwide last year, compared with
195 reported in 2002, according to the  Pharmaceutical Security
Institute , a Vienna, Virginia-based nonprofit organization that
monitors fake medicines.  
 Human Toll  
 “I’m not so sure that law enforcement officers around the
world know very much about the dangers of counterfeit
medicines,” said Tom Kubic, the institute’s president, in a
telephone interview. “In some countries where they do, they’re
grossly understaffed and frankly unable to effectively address
it.”  
 Counterfeits take a toll on human life. Fake medicines
against malaria and tuberculosis alone are responsible for about
 700,000 deaths a year , the London-based International Policy
Network estimated in a report last year.  
 “A mother who buys fake medicine to treat malaria does not
know that she is paying for her own death or that of her sick
child,”  Jacques Chirac , a former president of France, said in a
speech to the World Customs Organization’s council on June 24.
Chirac’s charitable foundation is working to combat fake drugs.  
 Fake Pills  
 Viagra copies were found to have entered Australia’s
pharmaceutical supply chain for the first time last month. At
least 776 packs of phony erection medicine were found in the
states of New South Wales and Victoria after customers
complained the blue diamond-shaped pills they had bought didn’t
work, according to Maida Talhami, a Sydney-based spokeswoman for
Pfizer. Tests showed they contained the wrong amount of
sildenafil, Viagra’s active ingredient.  
 Counterfeits with the same batch number seized in other
countries have been traced to China, Talhami said. China and
India are the source for most fake drugs, according to the
Pharmaceutical Security Institute’s Kubic. Tracking them to the
source has proved difficult.  
 “You’re dealing with finding a fairly small operation,”
Kubic says. “We’ve seen recent inquiries in China where there
are cancer medications being counterfeited with no active
ingredient that are being made in a small one-bedroom apartment
in major cities, with literally hundreds of well-copied packages
and capping equipment which sits on the top of a table.”  
 Dusty Vats, Derelict Warehouse  
 Pfizer says it’s making progress in China. In December 2008
a Chinese court sentenced Zhou Ju, the head of a manufacturing
and distribution network for fake pills, to 17 years in prison,
the nation’s longest term for the crime, and fined him 5 million
yuan ($732,000), Pfizer said.  
 Zhou was arrested in June 2007 in a raid on his factory in
Jining, Shandong province, after an investigation led by Pfizer
and the Shandong Public Security Bureau. Police seized 892,000
fake pills worth 13 million yuan, including illegal copies of
Viagra, Lilly’s Cialis, and Sanofi-Aventis SA’s diabetes pill
Amaryl, as well as 280 kilograms of bulk pharmaceutical
ingredients, according to Pfizer.  
 Yang Jie , a defense lawyer for Zhou, said his client was
convicted of making fake Viagra and given a sentence in keeping
with local laws. The case also implicated retailers who were
ordered to pay fines, Yang said in a telephone interview.  
 Pictures of Zhou’s factory show dirty, dust-covered mixing
vats, sacks of ingredients piled in a bare concrete warehouse,
tubs of blue dye used to color Viagra pills, and rolls of foil
used to seal blister packs, printed with the logos of Zithromax,
a Pfizer antibiotic, and Lipitor, its best-selling cholesterol
drug. That’s evidence of an ancillary industry supplying fake
packaging, said  Paul Newton , a University of Oxford researcher
who studies counterfeits from an office in Vientiane, Laos.  
 “There are people making packets and holograms especially
for the counterfeiters,” Newton said. “It’s not just a one-man
show, it’s all inter-linked with different nefarious business
activities.”  
 For Pfizer, the strategy shift is yielding results. Since
2007, the company has spent $3.3 million on investigations and
legal fees and recovered about $5.1 million. The company expects
to collect an additional $5.3 million from ongoing cases.  
 In the U.K., Pfizer says its civil  suits  have reduced the
availability of fake drugs over the Internet. The drugmaker says
it has sued at least seven other counterfeiters, and last month
settled its first civil suit in the U.S.  
 “As long as there are people in the world who think they
can make money by putting other people’s lives at risk, this is
a clear and present danger,”  Jeff Kindler , Pfizer’s chief
executive officer, said at a briefing in Singapore today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Counterfeit Viagra Pills  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Counterfeit Viagra pills. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Counterfeit Viagra pills. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A police officer shows fake Viagra that was seized in raids. Photographer: Peter Parks/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Pfizer Inc. CEO Jeff Kindler. Photographer: Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
