-- Philips Names Van Houten to Succeed Kleisterlee as CEO
-- Martijn van der Starre
-- 2010-07-08T16:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/philips-plans-to-name-van-houten-as-chief-executive-to-replace-kleisterlee.html

          
          
             Royal Philips Electronics NV , the
world’s biggest maker of patient-monitoring system, named
company veteran  Frans van Houten  as chief executive officer to
succeed  Gerard Kleisterlee .  
 Van Houten , 50, was a Philips management board member until
2006 and led the spinoff of Philips’s semiconductor business
into NXP Semiconductors NV, the Amsterdam-based company said in
a statement today. Retiring CEO Kleisterlee spent nine years
reforming the business and making acquisitions to create a
company focused on the three businesses of health-care, lighting
and consumer goods.  
 “There is some cost-cutting left to do, but not a lot,”
said  Marcel Achterberg , an Amsterdam-based analyst at Petercam.
Van Houten “will really need to make the switch to growth, with
a clear focus on certain core activities and regions. He’ll need
to come up with a fitting health-care product range for Asia for
example and to shape up the supply chain in lighting.”  
 Before becoming CEO next April, Van Houten, who has advised
on restructuring at ING Groep NV and ASM International NV, will
rejoin Philips in October and will become chief operating
officer on Jan. 1.  
 “I am glad it is an internal succession and that they
haven’t dragged someone from abroad,” said  Mark Reinalda , a
Nieuwegein, Netherlands-based fund manager at Allianz Nederland
Asset Management which has about 2 billion euros under
management. “I say Go, go, go Philips, because management is
doing well. I hope the succession will be as noiseless as
possible, like it was with Kleisterlee.”  
 Health-Care Acquisitions  
 Philips rose  0.2 percent to 24.74 euros in Amsterdam
trading. The shares have climbed 20 percent this year while the
Amsterdam Exchanges Index fell 3.8 percent.  
 Kleisterlee, 63, worked at Philips for more than 30 years.
Since taking the helm in 2001, he spent more than $10 billion
buying health-care assets, including the 3.6 billion-euro ($4.6
billion) takeover of Respironics Inc. in 2007. Philips’ lighting
unit expanded with acquisitions including Lumileds in 2005 and
lighting-fixtures manufacturer Genlyte Group Inc. in 2008.  
 Philips, which still makes products ranging from coffee
machines to lightbulbs, shed or reduced stakes in companies
including LG Diplay Co., monitor-maker TPV Technology Ltd. and
Pace Plc, a digital television set-top box supplier.  
 “The big changes in the portfolio have been made. It is
now about driving margins,” Kleisterlee said at a  conference  in
Florida in May.  
 Earnings Forecast  
 Philips said in April it was “increasingly confident” of
reaching adjusted earnings before interest, taxes and
amortization as a percentage of sales of 10 percent as early as
2010. At this year’s annual shareholders’ meeting, Kleisterlee
said Philips will present its strategy for the next five years
in September, including a target for earnings per share.  
 Philips’s health-care and lighting units compete with
General Electric Co. and Siemens AG. In December 2008, Philips
dropped a goal of doubling operating earnings per share by 2010
because the weakening economy was hurting demand for consumer
and automotive products.  
 Philips unveiled plans in January 2009 to slash 6,000 jobs
to bolster profitability and has said its fixed-cost base will
be more than 700 million euros lower in 2010 than in 2008.  
 Strategy Changes  
 “Kleisterlee took the right actions, especially on the
consumer electronics side,” said  Christian Vondenbusch , a
Rotterdam-based fund manager at Robeco Asset Management, which
oversees about 135 billion euros including Philips shares. “It
was a good decision to leave the high capital invested
manufacturing model for a marketing model, thereby increasing
returns.  
 Vondenbusch said he doesn’t “expect massive strategy
changes will be announced in September, firstly because
Kleisterlee will be giving it and secondly because his successor
is another Philips veteran.”  
 Van Houten joined  Philips  in 1986. After holding several
positions in the company, he became co-head of the consumer
electronics division in 2002 before being appointed CEO of
semiconductors in 2004.  
 “Frans van Houten has built an excellent track record with
Philips,”  Victor Bareno , an Amsterdam-based analyst at SNS
Securities, wrote in a report today. “He made an important
contribution to the restructuring and repositioning of consumer
electronics” in his time at the unit.  
 After leaving NXP, Van Houten became a temporary adviser to
the management board of ASMI, Europe’s second-largest maker of
semiconductor equipment.  
 ‘Determined Leadership’  
 Van Houten is an independent board adviser and interim
manager at  ING , where he has headed the operational separation
of the company’s banking and insurance businesses, scheduled to
be completed by the end of the year. He’ll be succeeded by Eric
Robles as of Aug. 1,  Frans Middendorff , a spokesman for the
Amsterdam-based financial-services company, said today.  
 “The opportunity that has arisen for Mr. Van Houten at
Philips is a great professional challenge,” ING Chief Executive
Officer Jan Hommen said in an e-mailed statement. “I thank
Frans for his inspirational and determined leadership.”  
 Philips  will propose Van Houten’s appointment at the annual
shareholders meeting on March 24.  
 “I am happy to see Frans return to our company,” said
Kleisterlee. “Under his leadership, Philips’s future will be in
very good hands.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martijn van der Starre  in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net ;
 Maud van Gaal  at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Philips plans to name new CEO as Frans van Houten. Photographer: Natalie Behring/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
