-- Philippine Stocks to Surpass 2 1/2-Year High on Interest Rates, CLSA Says
-- Ian C. Sayson
-- 2010-07-08T03:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/philippine-stocks-to-surpass-2-1-2-year-high-on-interest-rates-clsa-says.html

          
          
             The Philippine stock index will
probably extend a 2 1/2-year high after inflation dropped to a
seven-month low, easing pressure on the central bank to raise
borrowing costs, according to the nation’s top equity analyst.  
 The central bank may defer interest rate increases until
next year should inflation stay “benign,” benefitting  Banco de
Oro Unibank Inc.,   Filinvest Land Inc.  and  Universal Robina Corp. 
among banks, developers and consumer companies, said CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets analyst  Alfred Dy , ranked first in Philippine
research by Institutional Investor magazine’s 2010 poll.  
 The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  climbed 1 percent to
3,384.09 at 11:13 a.m., the highest since January 2008. The
 gauge  has risen 11 percent this year, the third-best performance
among Asia’s 12 biggest equity markets, as inflation eased in
June and a global economic recovery stoked optimism domestic
growth will accelerate.  
 “The feared increase in interest rates will not happen any
time soon,” Dy said in an interview today. “This reinforces
our call that consumer stocks together with property and banks
are the way to go.”  
 Dy in August correctly forecast that the index will reach
2,900 by end-2009 and 3,300 by the middle of 2011. It  surpassed 
2,900 in October and 3,300 in April.  
 There’s no “urgency” to raise interest rates, central
bank Governor  Amando Tetangco  said July 6 after data showed
inflation slowed to 3.9 percent in June. Deputy Governor  Diwa Guinigundo  separately said inflation will probably hold at
“lower rates.”  
 The central bank has held off raising the  overnight
borrowing rate  since it was cut to a record low of 4 percent in
July 2009 to sustain recovery.  
 ‘Softening Inflation’  
 “Softening inflation gives the central bank more elbow
room to keep interest rates low and that will help push this
market higher,” said Dy, who declined to give a specific index
target. “A rerating may start as early as this year should
inflation remain under control.”  
 Low borrowing costs will encourage spending and spur demand
for loans and mortgages, he said. Consumer spending accounts for
70 percent of the  Philippine economy , which the government
forecast will grow by 5 percent to 6 percent this year.  
 Shares of  Banco de Oro , the nation’s biggest bank, may rise
to 53 pesos in 12 months, according to CLSA’s estimates. The
stock was unchanged at 48 pesos in recent trading. The estimate
for  Universal Robina , the second-biggest food and drinks company,
is 35 pesos, compared with a current price of 29 pesos.
 Filinvest Land , the fifth-biggest homebuilder by market value,
may jump to 1.44 pesos, from 0.95 pesos.  
 Dy said investors should also buy  SM Investments Corp. ,
owner of the largest Philippine shopping mall operator,
 Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co. , the second-biggest bank, and
 Megaworld Corp.,  the fourth-largest developer.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        