-- Poolside Singers Toy With Puppets as French Show Charms: Review
-- Jorg von Uthmann
-- 2010-07-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/poolside-singers-toy-with-puppets-as-french-show-charms-review.html

          
          
             A very watery production is stealing
the show at France’s  Aix-en-Provence festival  this year.  
 In Robert Lepage’s striking take on Stravinsky’s “The
Nightingale,” the orchestra pit has been turned into a pool
that singers wade through as they operate puppets with the help
of rubber-suited divers. Also on stage at Aix this season:
Mozart’s “Don Giovanni” and Gluck’s “Alceste.”  
 “The Nightingale” -- an import from Toronto -- is by far
the best. Canadian-born Lepage is known for his imaginative mix
of theater, music, dance and puppetry, and he brings  Hans Christian Andersen ’s fairy tale delightfully to life.  
 Lepage puts the  Lyon Opera  orchestra (conducted by  Kazushi Ono ) onstage, and sets most of the action in the pit of the
Grand Theatre de Provence, which has been filled with water for
the occasion. Except for the nightingale, the emperor and the
chamberlain, all singers have to splash through their roles.  
 Not only that: While singing, they must operate nearly 100
puppets representing the dramatis personae and the many minions
at the court of the moribund Emperor of China. They’re aided by
half a dozen frogmen and frogwomen.  
 The effect is quite simply magical.  
 At the premiere, the Russian soprano Olga Peretyatko, who
delivers the nightingale’s languid notes with aplomb, was
greeted with a thunderous ovation. Among other singers, Edgaras
Montvidas’s lyrical Fisherman stood out.  
 Because “The Nightingale” lasts less than an hour, the
first part of the evening is filled with snippets from
Stravinsky’s folk-style repertoire -- lighter fare, charmingly
presented as shadow plays.  
 Rating: ****.  
 Don Giovanni  
 Dmitri Tcherniakov’s “Don Giovanni,” by contrast, proves
that the virus of German “Regietheater,” or director-driven
theater, is spreading to Russia.  
 The production -- set in the courtyard of the Archbishop’s
Palace, the festival’s main venue -- starts with a silent scene
that would have baffled the composer: The cast sits around a
table in the Commendatore’s library, staring at the landlord.  
 Tcherniakov explains in the program that “Don Giovanni”
is a family drama, and its hero is the black sheep of the clan.
To Tcherniakov, it seems, the opera’s many scene changes are
distractions from the central theme. So the library remains his
only setting.  
 As a result, all the funny episodes of mistaken identity
and nocturnal exchange fall flat. There is nothing jocular in
this version of Mozart’s “dramma giocoso.” Don Giovanni,
wearing a shabby camel-hair coat over a torn undershirt, cuts a
sad figure -- more nutcase than seducer.  
 Family Freak  
 The ending is no less surprising. The Commendatore who
appears at the dinner table is not the real one, but rather a
doppelganger hired by Ottavio with the intention of scaring the
family freak. Whether Giovanni survives is unclear: In the
final sextet, he still lies writhing on the floor.  
 The inconsistencies and too-clever-by-half ideas would be
easier to stomach were the singing better. Bo Skovhus’s
Giovanni sounds tired. Colin Balzer is a dry Ottavio. Marlis
Petersen’s Anna and Kristine Opolais’s Elvira have a sour
voice.  
 The best vocalism comes from  Kyle Ketelsen ’s robust
Leporello. Anatoli Kotscherga, who sings the final scene in the
pit while his doppelganger is acting onstage, is a powerful
Commendatore.  
 The Freiburger Barockorchester, under the baton of  Louis Langree , produces transparent, slightly undernourished sounds.  
 Rating: *.  
 French Alceste  
 The same orchestra, conducted by Ivor Bolton, accompanies
the French version of “Alceste.” Gluck’s 1776 opera, though
often praised as a forerunner of Wagner’s music dramas, is
rarely staged.  
 It’s easy to see why. The story -- Alceste offers her life
to the gods to save Admete, her dying husband, yet they both
end up surviving -- moves at a snail’s pace, and the music,
noble though it is, tends to be monotonous.  
 Director Christof Loy does his best to liven things up,
and never quite manages. By turning the ubiquitous chorus into
a bunch of shuffling children, he cheapens the drama.  
 Veronique Gens in the title role is dignified and moving.
 Joseph Kaiser ’s Admete and Thomas Oliemans’s Hercules are both
excellent. Still, on opening night, there were many sleepers in
the audience and, after intermission, many empty seats.  
 Rating: **.  
 “The Nightingale” is in repertory through July 10,
“Alceste” through July 13, “Don Giovanni” through July 20.  
 Information:  http://www.festival-aix.com , +33-4-3408-0217.
If you miss the Stravinsky show in Aix, you can catch it in
Lyon from Oct. 12 through 21.  
 ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  

 
What the stars mean:
 ****       Outstanding
 ***        Good
 **         Average
 *          Poor
 (No stars) Worthless
 
 
To contact the writer on the story;
 Jorg von Uthmann  in Aix-en-Provence at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Olga Peretyatko stars in the Igor Stravinsky opera "The Nightingale." The opera runs at the Festival d'Aix-en-Provence through July 10. Photographer: Elisabeth Carecchio/Festival d'Aix-en-Provence via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Veronique Gens in the title role of Gluck's "Alceste." The production runs at the Festival d'Aix-en-Provence through July 13. Photographer: Pascal Victor/Festival d'Aix-en-Provence via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Dmitri Tcherniakov production of "Don Giovanni" runs at the Festival d'Aix-en-Provence through July 20. Photographer: Pascal Victor/Festival d'Aix-en-Provence via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
