-- Portugal Loses EU Case Over Portugal Telecom Veto as Telefonica Eyes Vivo
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-07-08T16:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/portugal-loses-eu-case-over-right-to-veto-decisions-by-portugal-telecom.html

          
          
             Portugal’s veto rights at  Portugal
Telecom SGPS SA  discourage investments, a European Union court
said in a ruling that may clear the way for Telefonica SA’s bid
to take over a Brazilian wireless operator.  
 The  European Court of Justice  ruled today that the so-
called golden shares give the country an unjustified influence
over the company. The court rejected Portuguese arguments
seeking to maintain the special rights at Portugal Telecom.  
 The “golden shares grant the Portuguese state influence
over  decision  making in the company which is liable to
discourage investments,” a five-judge panel in Luxembourg
ruled. The decision is binding and cannot be appealed.  
 The Portuguese government used rights, tied to its
ownership of 500 Portugal Telecom “class A” shares, for the
first time on June 30 to block  Telefonica ’s 7.15 billion-euro
($9 billion) bid for the company’s stake in Brazil’s largest
wireless operator. The government’s move came after 74 percent
of the shareholders present at their meeting in Lisbon accepted
Telefonica’s offer to buy full control of joint venture
Brasilcel NV, which owns 60 percent of Vivo Participacoes SA.  
 “Portugal will respect the decision, but will analyze the
ways to comply by altering the configuration of its special
rights,” Portuguese Government Minister  Pedro Silva Pereira 
said at a press conference in Lisbon today after the Cabinet’s
weekly meeting.  
 No ‘Immediate Alteration’  
 The ruling doesn’t “create any immediate alteration,”
Silva Pereira said. The court action is “merely declarative.”  
 Telefonica  rose 1.2 percent to 16.17 euros in Madrid
trading. Portugal Telecom declined 0.6 percent to 8.60 euros in
Lisbon.  
 If the government fails to comply with today’s decision,
the  European Commission , the EU’s executive agency, has the
option of suing Portugal for damages at the EU court, which may
delay any final result by at least two years.  
 “Portugal could try to resist and sit on the ruling and
wait for the commission to get to it,” said  Michel Struys , a
partner in the Paris office of law firm Allen & Overy LLP, in a
phone interview. “If Telefonica wants to play hardball it could
take Portugal Telecom to court in Portugal based on today’s EU
ruling.”  
 Portugal is likely to analyze this judgment for “any
loopholes it could exploit,” said Struys.  
 “Portugal would need to act fairly swiftly because at this
point Telefonica is in a position of strength,” he said. “By
not acting, Telefonica gives time to Portugal to adapt its
golden shares to the ruling.”  
 ‘Look Ahead’  
 Today’s ruling “goes beyond” Portugal Telecom, Chief
Executive Officer  Zeinal Bava  told reporters at a conference in
Lisbon. “It doesn’t have to do with PT’s management directly,”
Bava said. “From PT’s standpoint, we have to work with the
facts, and now we have to look ahead.”  
 “We have to work to find the best solution that’s good for
all,” Bava said, referring to possible talks with Telefonica.
He declined to say what the negotiations could involve.  
 Miguel Angel Garzon , a spokesman for Madrid-based
Telefonica, declined to comment on the ruling. The company
yesterday said it wants to seek “possible solutions to complete
the transaction, as long as Portugal Telecom is willing.”  
 ‘Problem Child’  
 After the ruling, “we’d expect Telefonica’s 7.15 billion-
euro offer to go through -- given it had 74 percent acceptances
last time,”  Mark James , an analyst at Liberum Capital in
London, said in an e-mailed note. “Brazil, however, looks set
to be a problem child for Telefonica” due to slowing growth, he
added.  
 The commission said in a 2008 lawsuit that Portugal’s
privileged rights infringe EU rules, by limiting the movement of
capital. The dispute is part of a protracted fight by the
Brussels-based regulator against governments owning so-called
golden shares to retain some control over former state
monopolies.  
 Commission President  Jose Barroso  at a press conference in
Brussels said he welcomed the court’s ruling, adding that
“golden shares are against the internal market” and the
“principle” of free movement of capital.  
 The case is C-171/08 European Commission v Portuguese
Republic.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Portugal Telecom shareholder arrives for the company's general meeting in Lisbon. Photographer: Mario Proenca/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Christopher Nicholson, a senior analyst at equity research firm Oraca Ltd., talks about the European Court of Justice ruling on Portugal's right to veto decisions by the country’s biggest phone company, Portugal Telecom SGPS SA.
    The European Union's highest court ruled today in Luxembourg that the so-called golden share gives the country an unjustified influence over the company. The governnmet is seeking to block the sale of Portugal Telecom's stake in Brazil's largest wireless operator. Nicholson speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Portugal's prime minister Jose Socrates. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
