-- Poxel Gets Diabetes Funding From Investors Including Edmond de Rothschild
-- Dermot Doherty
-- 2010-07-08T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/poxel-gets-diabetes-funding-from-investors-including-edmond-de-rothschild.html

          
          
             Poxel SA, a French biotechnology
company spun off from  Merck KGaA , raised 16 million euros ($20.1
million) in early funding from investors including Edmond de
Rothschild Investment Partners.  
 CDC Entreprises and Credit Agricole Private Equity also
invested, Lyon, France-based Poxel said today in an e-mailed
statement. The venture funding, the largest so-called series A
financing in France since 2005, will support the company until
the end of 2012, the company said.  
 Much of the cash raised will be used for development of
Poxel’s most advanced compound, Imeglimin, in the treatment of
Type 2 diabetes. The drug, in mid-stage testing, belongs to a
new class of medicines called glimins and targets processes in
the muscle, the liver and the pancreas to help regulate blood
glucose levels. Diabetics can’t produce enough insulin to absorb
sugar, which collects in their blood and can lead to kidney
failure, blindness and heart disease.  
 “Imeglimin is a first-in-class with a new chemical
structure, which targets three important components of the
diabetic disease,” Raphael Wisniewski, a partner at  de
Rothschild  and a Poxel board member, said in a telephone
interview. “Products in this field are increasingly combined
and Imeglimin has some features which are amenable to
combinations with existing and newer drugs.”  
 Poxel was formed last year after Merck’s decision to halt
research into new diabetes treatments near the end of 2007. The
number of people with the condition is expected to more than
double to 366 million by 2030, according to the World Health
Organization.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        