-- PregLem, Swiss Biotech, Said to Hire Credit Suisse for Initial Stock Sale
-- Zijing Wu
-- 2010-07-08T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/preglem-swiss-biotech-said-to-hire-credit-suisse-for-initial-stock-sale.html

          
          
             PregLem SA , a closely held Swiss
biotechnology company specialized in women’s health, has hired
Credit Suisse Group AG for a possible initial public offering,
according to two people familiar with the situation.  
 The IPO may happen as early as this year, depending on
investor appetite, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t yet public. PregLem
Chief Executive Officer  Ernest Loumaye  declined to comment.  
 PregLem may benefit from this year’s revival of the IPO
market. In the first half of 2010, 71 companies in western
Europe raised a total of $12.6 billion, more than double the
amount sold in the region all of last year.  
 Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s biggest bank by market value,
has underwritten 10 IPOs in Europe, the Middle East and Africa
this year, ranking second to JPMorgan Chase & Co., data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  
 PregLem, based in Geneva, has raised about 68 million Swiss
francs ($65 million) since beginning operations in 2007.
Investors include Paris-based venture capital firm Sofinnova
Partners,  Sofinnova Ventures , MVM Life Science Partners and
NeoMed. The company said in May it planned to raise cash this
year by selling shares to public or private investors.  
 Its most advanced compound, Esmya, was effective in late-
stage testing against the most common form of benign uterine
tumor. Esmya may be the first of a new type of treatment for
uterine fibroids, benign growths that affect about 40 percent of
women between the age of 35 and 55 and can cause heavy bleeding,
pain and infertility.  
 Seeking Approval  
 PregLem gained European and North American rights to Esmya
through accords with  HRA Pharma  of France. The medicine is
marketed by the French company as the  EllaOne  emergency
contraceptive after winning approval in Europe last year.  
 PregLem has said it plans to seek European regulatory
approval this year for use on uterine fibroids. If approved,
Esmya may be introduced in Germany at the end of 2011 and in
other European countries in 2012. A filing for U.S. approval may
happen in late 2012, following an additional clinical trial.  
 Peak sales of Esmya as a treatment for  uterine fibroids  may
be in the “hundreds of millions” of euros range, Loumaye said
in a May 18 interview. Between 2 million and 4 million women in
the U.S. and Europe who show symptoms of the condition require
treatment, which in most cases consists of surgery, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net 
 Zijing Wu  in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        