-- Public Universities Face `Dramatic' Funding Cuts, Moody's Says
-- Michael McDonald
-- 2010-07-08T19:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/public-universities-in-u-s-facing-dramatic-funding-cuts-moody-s-says.html

          
          
             Many public universities face
“dramatic declines” in funding and possible ratings downgrades
as states cut and delay annual appropriations, Moody’s Investors
Service said.  
 States are reducing funding to public universities by as
much as 6 percent this fiscal year compared with last, Moody’s
analysts led by Dennis Gephardt wrote in a report dated today.
Institutions rated A2 and A3, five and six steps below the top
grade, face the greatest risk of downgrade, New York-based
Moody’s said.  
 “Many U.S. public universities face dramatic declines in
state funding on a scale that surpasses past experience,” the
analysts wrote. States spent a combined $90 billion on public
universities in fiscal 2009, which amounted to about 30 percent
of the revenue at the institutions, down from 50 percent two
decades ago, according to Moody’s.  
 Public colleges and universities also face a potential
“funding cliff” beginning in fiscal 2012 when stimulus funds
are no longer available, the analysts wrote. In 20 states, money
from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act made up more
than 4 percent of budgeted support for public universities in
fiscal 2010.  
 State governments face a combined $127.4 billion budget gap
in the fiscal years 2010 through 2012 as the economy recovers
from the recession, according to a  report  last month by the
National Governors Association and the National Association of
State Budget Officers. Most state fiscal years begin July 1.  
 Moody’s said in February it was reviewing all the public
university bonds it rates from Illinois as a result of the state
Legislature’s “extensive delays in budgeted appropriations,”
according to the report. It also downgraded five of the
institutions, including  Illinois State University,  to A3 from
A2, according to a separate report.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        