-- Raiffeisen Executive Says Hungary's Proposed New Bank Tax Is `Huge Burden'
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-07-08T11:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/raiffeisen-executive-says-hungary-s-proposed-new-bank-tax-is-huge-burden-.html

          
          
             Raiffeisen International Bank-Holding
AG  Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Stepic  said that the proposed
tax plans in Hungary is a “huge burden.”  
 The tax is a “big problem as it will put the banking
industry under massive pressure,” Stepic told shareholders at
the company’s annual meeting in Vienna today. “Several banks
will report losses.”  
 Stepic sees repercussions in other eastern European
countries, with the population possibly pressuring governments
to follow Hungary on the banking tax. “This could create
massive damages for the banking sector.”  
 The Hungarian government wants to impose a 187 billion-
forint ($824 million) tax on financial institutions, including a
120 billion-forint levy on lenders, to plug budget holes.
Hungary needs to meet an IMF-approved  budget deficit  of 3.8
percent of gross domestic product this year and the shortfall
has reached 119 percent of the annual target by June.  
 The Cabinet failed to complete an agreement with banks last
week after the owners of six western European banks withdrew the
negotiating mandate of their local units, Economy Minister
 Gyorgy Matolcsy  said on July 2. The government has “no room”
to change the terms of the levy for 2010, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said today, adding that the cabinet was open to
negotiations regarding the terms of the tax in 2011 and 2012.  
 Raiffeisen International, based in Vienna, is the foreign
lender with the most at stake in Hungary, followed by Austria’s
 Erste Group Bank AG  and  KBC NV  of Belgium, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zoe Schneeweiss  in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        