-- U.S.: No Country Manipulates Currency, Yuan `Undervalued'
-- Ian Katz
-- 2010-07-08T22:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/treasury-says-no-country-manipulates-currency-yuan-remains-undervalued-.html

          
          
             The U.S., stopping short of branding
China a currency manipulator, said the yuan “remains
undervalued” after the nation ended its peg to the dollar.  
 China took a “significant step” last month when it began
to allow markets to drive the currency higher, the Treasury
Department said in a report to Congress released today. The
report, initially due April 15, also said it’s not yet clear
whether the policy shift will correct the yuan’s undervaluation.  
 The report shows Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s
resolve to negotiate with China rather than confront it on the
currency issues. Geithner has repeatedly said it will be
“China’s choice” when to let the yuan rise, amid pressure from
Senator  Charles Schumer  and other lawmakers to press for a
speedier appreciation or face possible trade sanctions.  
 “What matters is how far and how fast the renminbi
appreciates,” Geithner said in a statement today, using another
name for the currency. “We will closely and regularly monitor
the appreciation of the renminbi and will continue to work
towards expanded U.S. export opportunities in China that support
employment in the  United States , in close consultation with
Congress.”  
 The Treasury missed its opportunity to hold China
accountable for its currency policies, Schumer said in a
statement today. “This report is as disappointing as it is
unsurprising,” the New York Democrat said. “It’s clear it will
take an act of Congress to do the obvious and call China out for
its currency manipulation.”  
 WTO Disputes  
 Other lawmakers called for the Obama administration to take
up the currency issue at the World Trade Organization. House
Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Sander Levin  and Senator
 Charles Grassley , the Senate Finance Committee’s top Republican,
both called for the U.S. to file a trade complaint.  
 China’s currency has “appreciated only modestly” since
last month’s policy shift, Levin said. “There is no real
question that China’s exchange-rate policy is unfair,
contributes to global trade imbalances, and costs the United
States jobs and economic growth, particularly in the
manufacturing sector.”  
 The Treasury said the report covers the second half of 2009
and includes some information from the first half of 2010. The
department said a full report on the first half of 2010 will be
included in the Treasury’s next report to Congress, which is due
in October.  
 More Movement  
 Today’s report, which concluded that no major U.S. trading
partner manipulates its currency, comes after Chinese policy
makers announced June 19 that they would allow greater
fluctuation. China had been holding its currency at about 6.83
to the dollar from July 2008 to help exporters, after allowing
the yuan to rise 21 percent the three prior years.  
 Earlier today, the yuan traded at 6.776 per dollar.  
 “China’s exchange-rate reform must be reinforced by
macroeconomic policies that support domestic demand and other
structural reforms to create a strong foundation for
consumption-led growth,” the Treasury said in the report.
“Exchange-rate appreciation should play an important role in
rebalancing China’s economy.”  
 The report also said global flows of trade and investment
are becoming more lopsided as growth resumes. “As the recovery
takes hold, there are signs that imbalances are on the rise
again,” the Treasury said.  
 European Risks  
 The report said Europe’s debt crisis is a risk to the
global rebound. “A durable recovery is still not fully
secure,” it said. “Downside risks have increased somewhat as a
result of the sovereign-debt problems in Europe and their effect
on financial markets.”  
 European economies are recovering “slowly” from the
financial crisis, led by exports, the report said.  
 “Private-sector demand continues to be weak, particularly
in Japan and Germany,” it said. Both nations should
“strengthen private-sector demand growth, to contribute to a
better balanced and more sustainable global economy.”  
 Geithner last month said China’s yuan-shift announcement
needs to be accompanied by “vigorous” action. He opted to
delay the report until after a series of meetings between U.S.
and Chinese officials in Beijing and as part of Group of 20
policy discussions.  
 President  Barack Obama  last month said the U.S. will be
monitoring markets to make sure that China follows through.  
 U.S. Expectations  
 “We do expect that as more and more market forces come to
bear, that given the enormous surpluses that China has
accumulated, that the renminbi is going to go up and it’s going
to go up significantly,” Obama said in Toronto after a G-20
summit. “We are going to be paying attention over the next
several months to make that determination.”  
 In its previous report in October, the Treasury criticized
China for the “lack of flexibility” of the yuan and a buildup
of foreign-exchange reserves while declining to call the nation
a manipulator of its currency.  
 China’s  reserves  rose to a record $2.447 trillion in the
first quarter of 2010, suggesting a renewed appetite from
overseas investors for bets on yuan appreciation, according to
the People’s Bank of China. Holdings jumped $22.5 billion in
March, after gaining $9.4 billion in February and $16 billion in
January, data posted on the central bank’s  website  in April
showed.  
 China’s Caution  
 China’s President  Hu Jintao  called on his counterparts to
proceed with caution as they exit from stimulus measures,
reflecting his country’s concern about the dangers of the
European crisis and limited demand growth in advanced economies.  
 “The deeper impact of the global financial crisis has yet
to be overcome, and systemic and structural risks remain very
serious,” Hu said in prepared remarks to the G-20 summit on
June 27. Hu’s speech didn’t mention the yuan’s shift, and the G-
20’s final statement called for “greater exchange-rate
flexibility in some emerging markets” without mentioning China.  
 Under a 1988 law, the Treasury is required to report to
Congress twice a year on international economic conditions and
exchange-rate policies. The Treasury is required to enter direct
talks with a country deemed to be manipulating its currency, and
also seek redress through the International Monetary Fund. The
last country branded a manipulator was China, in 1994.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net 
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “What matters is how far and how fast the renminbi appreciates,” U.S. treasury secretary Timothy Geithner said in a statement. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Donald Straszheim, senior managing director of China research at International Strategy & Investment Group, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about China's currency policy.
     The U.S., stopping short of branding China a currency manipulator, said the yuan "remains undervalued" after the nation ended its peg to the dollar. China took a "significant step" last month when it began to allow markets to drive the currency higher, the Treasury Department said in a report to Congress released yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Stuart Eizenstat, a partner at Covington & Burling and former deputy U.S. Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton, talks about today's Treasury Department report on China's yuan policy.
     The Treasury said China’s yuan “remains undervalued” after the nation ended its peg to the dollar while stopping short of branding the country a currency manipulator. Eizenstat speaks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
