-- Treasury 10-Year Note Yield Can't Remain Below 3%, Peters Says: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-07-08T16:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/treasury-10-year-note-yield-can-t-remain-below-3-peters-says-tom-keene.html

          
          
             The  yield  on U.S. 10-year notes can’t
remain less than 3 percent without deflation, according to  Greg Peters , global head of fixed-income research at Morgan Stanley
in New York.  
 “It’s not sustainable -- unless you truly, truly believe
in a deflation outcome -- that yields can rest below 3,” Peters
said today in a radio interview with  Tom Keene  on “Bloomberg
Surveillance.”  
 With deflation concern permeating the Treasury market
during the past several weeks, Peters said the inflation premium
has been priced out of U.S. debt, tugging yields down. The
benchmark 10-year note’s yield touched 2.8793 percent on July 1,
the lowest level since April 28, 2009. The yield on the two-year
note dropped on June 30 to 0.5856, the all-time low.  
 “Almost every investor on the planet was underweight on
Treasury risk in some way, shape, or form” at the beginning of
the year, Peters said. Recently, they’ve had to chase the
rallying market, which creates a “self-reinforcing spiral”
that pulls yields down.  
 Stalled Federal Reserve policy has also kept yields low,
Peters said. The central bank has held its target rate for
overnight lending between banks to a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  
 Deflation is unlikely, according to Peters, who said the
recovery outlook resembles 1998’s economy, which “was
questionable at some points” but continued to grow.  
 Concern in 1998  
 In 1998, markets were shocked by a drop in emerging-market
sovereign debt and the collapse of the hedge fund Long-Term
Capital Management. The uncertainty contributed to a 20 percent
plunge in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in three months,
followed by a rebound, Peters said in a June 15 research note.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Treasury
notes compared with 2-year debt predicts positive economic
activity, Peters said.  
 “While the curve has flattened out, it’s important to
remember that the steepness is telling you that economic
expansion is still on the horizon,” Peters said.  
 While deflation concerns abound, Peters said he doesn’t
expect much movement in the 10-year note. The security’s yield
will be “in 3.5 percent mode for quite some time,” Peters
predicted.  
 “We’re kind of stuck in a rut here,” he said. “If we
start to see inflation concerns or, more importantly, the
expectation of inflation, then yields will start to move
higher.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        