-- Trichet Says Rising Market Rates Don't Reflect ECB Policy
-- Gabi Thesing
-- 2010-07-08T13:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/trichet-says-ecb-s-interest-rates-are-appropriate-as-debt-threatens-growth.html

          
          
             European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  said rising market interest rates don’t reflect
any plan by the ECB to tighten policy and signaled the bank will
keep its  benchmark rate  at a record low in coming months.  
 “It would be a complete mistake to interpret what we
observe in the market as a monetary policy signal,” said
Trichet at a press conference in Frankfurt after the ECB left
the main rate at 1 percent.  
 Trichet is under pressure to do more to shore up confidence
in the 16-nation euro region as government spending cuts and
concerns about the health of the banking sector cloud the
outlook for growth. Market borrowing costs are rising after
banks tapped the ECB for less funds than economists had expected
before paying back a record 442 billion-euro ($559 billion) ECB
loan on July 1. That reduced excess liquidity in markets.  
 The European Overnight Index Average  rate, or EONIA, rose
to 0.542 percent on June 30 from as low as 0.295 percent on June
3. It was fixed at 0.414 percent yesterday. The rate that banks
charge each other to borrow for three months has increased to
0.8 percent, the highest in 10 months, from 0.63 percent at the
end of March.  
 Higher borrowing costs are “the consequence of the
decision of the banks themselves at the moment of renewal of
their previous financing to ask for less than they could have
done,” said Trichet. He described the main rate as
“appropriate” at present.  
 Stress Tests  
 Trichet also said that banks must be ready to expand
lending when the economic recovery gathers strength and welcomed
the European Union’s decision to publish stress tests for banks.  
 “Where necessary, to address this challenge, banks should
retain earnings, turn to the market to strengthen further their
capital bases or take full advantage of government support
measures for recapitalisation,” said Trichet. While some
analysts argue that the tests should be tougher, Trichet said
“I don’t think it is an appropriate way to characterize what we
are doing.”  
 Europe’s economy is showing signs of weakening after
Greece’s fiscal crisis undermined investor confidence in the
euro, forcing governments to cut spending and examine how
resilient their banks are to further shocks.  
 The ECB has embarked on an unprecedented program of bond
purchases in an effort to contain rising yields in debt-strapped
countries, and has reintroduced some of the non-standard
measures it employed during last year’s financial crisis, such
as unlimited longer-term lending to banks.  
 Trichet indicated that the ECB’s need to intervene in
government bond markets is waning at present.  
 “We have the feeling” that “what is needed in terms of
level of interventions has been progressively diminishing,” he
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet gestures while speaking during a news conference at the bank's headquarters in Frankfurt. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The euro sign sculpture stands outside the ECB headquarters in Frankfurt. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
