-- Trichet Says Rising Market Rates Don't Reflect ECB Policy
-- Jana Randow
-- 2010-07-08T16:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/trichet-says-europe-s-economy-stronger-than-some-outside-investors-think.html

          
          
             European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  said Europe’s economy is stronger than some
investors think and signaled the bank doesn’t intend to do more
to fight the sovereign debt crisis for now.  
 “There is a tendency from the outside to be excessively
pessimistic” about Europe, Trichet said at a press conference
in Frankfurt after the ECB left its  benchmark rate  at a record
low of 1 percent. “The figures don’t confirm this pessimism.”
The euro rose half a cent to an eight-week high of $1.27.  
 “Trichet wanted to spread confidence and show that the
financial and banking sectors aren’t doing too badly,” said
 Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “He’s
talking down the potential for a double-dip recession in the
euro area. I agree. We will see a slowdown, but no double dip.”  
 Europe’s debt crisis has pushed up bond yields and forced
governments to cut spending, threatening to derail the economic
recovery. The International Monetary Fund said yesterday the ECB
may have to step up its bond purchases to convince investors it
won’t allow market tensions to escalate. Trichet indicated the
central bank is content with its “progressively diminishing”
purchases and has no plans at the moment to extend longer-term
lending to banks, even as market borrowing costs climb.  
 Market Rates  
 Market rates are rising after banks tapped the ECB for less
funds than investors expected before paying back a record 442
billion-euro ($559 billion) ECB loan on July 1, reducing excess
liquidity in the system.  
 It would be a “mistake” to interpret interbank borrowing
costs as a monetary-policy signal, Trichet said, adding the
ECB’s key refinancing rate remains “appropriate.” At the same
time, rising rates are “the consequence of the decision of the
banks” to borrow less from the ECB, he said.  
 Trichet “conveyed an impression that the ECB was happy not
to be dictating short rates at present,” said  David Page , an
economist at Investec Securities in London. “This apparent
abdication of responsibility for short rates could lead to an
effective premature tightening of monetary policy. One could
realistically expect further liquidity withdrawals to raise
overnight rates towards the 1 percent refi rate over the coming
quarters.”  
 The European Overnight Index Average rate, or  EONIA , jumped
to 0.542 percent on June 30 from as low as 0.295 percent on June
3. The rate that banks charge each other to borrow for  three
months  has increased to 0.8 percent, the highest in 10 months,
from 0.63 percent at the end of March.  
 ‘Much Better’  
 The economy of the 16 nations sharing the euro expanded 0.2
percent in the first three months of the year and Trichet,
citing “very good” recent data, said second-quarter growth
“is likely to be much better.”  
 Trichet’s optimism about the economy contrasts with the
view of the IMF, which yesterday cut its forecast for euro-
region growth next year to 1.3 percent from 1.5 percent. The
economy will expand 1 percent this year, it said.  
 With the recovery still fragile, the Washington-based fund
said the ECB may need to step up bond purchases “to prevent a
further deterioration of market functioning.”  
 The  extra yield  that investors demand to hold Spanish
10-year bonds over the German equivalents was at 203 basis
points today, higher than it was before the ECB started its
purchase program.  
 ‘Quite Perky’  
 Trichet said there are signs of improvement on bond markets
and noted the ECB’s asset purchases, which were not backed by
all 22 of its policy makers, have been slowing.  
 He welcomed the European Union’s decision to publish the
results of bank stress tests, saying transparency is a
“virtue.”  
 Where necessary, “banks should retain earnings, turn to
the market to strengthen further their capital bases or take
full advantage of government support measures for
recapitalization,” he said.  
 “Trichet actually sounded quite perky,” said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at Barclays Capital in London.
“The subtext may have been that the ECB has more insight than
anyone else into the banking sector through its involvement in
the stress tests and the interbank market.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet speaks during a news conference at the bank's headquarters in Frankfurt. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
