-- Rothschild's Vallar Said to Raise About $1.1 Billion in London Offering
-- Zijing Wu
-- 2010-07-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/rothschild-s-vallar-said-to-raise-1-1-billion-in-ipo-before-lse-listing.html

          
          
             Vallar Plc,  Nathaniel Rothschild ’s
investment vehicle, raised about 700 million pounds ($1.1
billion) in an initial public offering before it started trading
on the London Stock Exchange, said three people familiar with
the sale.  
 The shares, which were sold at 1,000 pence apiece, will
start so-called conditional dealing today, said one of the
people, who declined to be identified because the details of the
sale haven’t been announced. Credit Suisse Group AG is
coordinating the sale with JPMorgan Cazenove Ltd., a joint
bookrunner. Jersey, U.K.-incorporated Vallar had sought to raise
600 million pounds, according to a June 25 statement.  
 Rothschild, former co-president of New York-based hedge-
fund firm Atticus Capital LLC and the only son of British
financier  Lord Jacob Rothschild , is tapping investors to help
fund an acquisition of a mining business or operation. Vallar’s
offering came after at least 50 companies postponed or shelved
IPO plans worldwide since April amid the European debt crisis.  
 The Vallar team is led by Rothschild and  James Campbell , a
former Anglo American Plc coal and base-metals chief. Investment
will focus on metals, coal and iron ore in the Americas, Russia,
eastern Europe and Australia, Vallar said last month.  
 Rothschild, the youngest of four children of Jacob
Rothschild, ranks seventh in the Sunday Times list of the 25
wealthiest U.K.-based hedge fund managers in an annual estimate
of net worth known as the “Rich List.”  
 He has an estimated fortune of 330 million pounds,
according to the list published in April.  
 Evolution Securities Ltd. and Liberum Capital Ltd. are co-
managers for the IPO.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        