-- Rubber Advances to One-Week High as Faster U.S. Sales Ease Growth Concern
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-07-08T07:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/rubber-advances-to-one-week-high-as-faster-u-s-sales-ease-growth-concern.html

          
          
             Rubber advanced to a one-week high
after a U.S. trade group said that retail sales increased at the
fastest pace in four years, stoking optimism that demand for the
commodity used in tires may strengthen.  
 Futures in Tokyo climbed as much as 2.6 percent to the
highest level since June 29. The price also increased as an
advance in oil boosted the appeal of natural rubber as an
alternative to synthetic products made from petroleum.  
 Asian stocks extended a global rally after the
International Council of Shopping Centers said sales were
growing at the fastest pace since 2006, easing concern that a
slump in consumer confidence will undermine the recovery of the
world’s biggest economy. The dollar advanced against the
Japanese currency, raising the appeal of yen-based contracts.  
 “A rally in equities markets improved investor sentiment,
leading to purchases of the commodity,”  Hisaaki Tasaka , analyst
at Tokyo-based broker ACE Koeki Co., said today by phone.  
 December-delivery rubber gained as much as 6.9 yen to 277
yen per kilogram ($3,136 a metric ton) before settling at 276.3
yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange.  
 November-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
added 1.7 percent to settle at 22,105 yuan ($3,262) a ton.  
 The shopping centers group said retail sales probably
expanded at an average monthly rate of 4 percent in the first
five months of the retail fiscal year that began Jan. 31.  
 U.S. Economy  
 “The focus now is on how the U.S. economy is doing,” said
 Mitsushige Akino , who oversees $450 million at Tokyo-based
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “The general consensus was
that the economy was going to deteriorate, and the good retail
sales put a brake on that view.”  
 Crude oil for August delivery advanced as much as 1.4
percent to $75.10 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. Yesterday, the contract gained 2.9 percent
to $74.07.  
 “The crude oil price rally and worries over tight supply
continued supporting rubber prices,” Varut Rungkhum, analyst at
commodity broker Agro Wealth Ltd., said by phone from Bangkok.  
 Cash prices should be well supported in the short term as
rains in some southern provinces have disrupted supply, the 
Rubber Institute of Thailand  said on its website today. The
benchmark price in Thailand added 0.2 percent to 112.85 baht
($2.75) a kilogram today. The group reviews the price daily and
issues data in the afternoon.  
 Tight global supplies and strong demand, especially from
China, will support prices, the  Association of Natural Rubber
Producing Countries  said in its June newsletter. Gross imports
of natural rubber by China, the largest consumer, are projected
to climb 5 percent this year to 1.67 million tons, it said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        