-- Russian Spy Ring Defendants Begin Arraignment in New York Court
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-08T18:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/russian-spy-ring-defendants-arraignment-hearing-begins-in-new-york-court.html

          
          
             Ten members of an alleged Russian spy
ring, together in court for the first time since their arrest
became public 10 days ago, began an arraignment hearing in New
York to be formally charged with violating U.S. laws.  
 The hearing, presided over by U.S. District Judge  Kimba Wood  in Manhattan, may be a step toward resolving the case and
paving the way for a prisoner swap with the Russian Federation.  
 The 10 defendants are charged with belonging to a long-
term, deep-cover spy operation whose goal was to infiltrate U.S.
policy-making circles after constructing U.S. identities.  
 In an indictment unsealed yesterday, all 10 of the
defendants were charged with one count of conspiracy to act as
an agent of a foreign country without registering with U.S.
authorities. Eight also face a single count of money laundering
conspiracy.  
 An 11th defendant in the case, Christopher Metsos, was
arrested in Cyprus, then disappeared after he was granted bail
on June 29. He is charged with conspiracy to act as an
unregistered foreign agent and conspiracy to launder money.  
 The hearing comes amid reports of Russian and U.S.
officials meeting to discuss a prisoner swap. Russian military
researcher Igor Sutyagin, convicted of espionage by Russia in
2004, arrived in Vienna today in what may be the first stage of
a spy swap with the U.S., a human rights activist said.  
 Russian news website Gazeta.ru reported today that the
meeting yesterday between  William Burns , undersecretary of state
for political affairs, and Russian Ambassador  Sergey Kislyak 
produced an exchange deal under which one U.S. spy suspect, Anna
Chapman, will be delivered incognito to Moscow tonight.
Gazeta.ru cited an unidentified diplomat familiar with the
meeting.  
 The case is U.S. v. Metsos, 10-cr-00598, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        