-- Russian Spy-Ring Defendants Tell U.S. Judge They're Ready to Plead Guilty
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-08T20:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/russian-spy-ring-defendants-tell-u-s-judge-they-re-ready-to-plead-guilty.html

          
          
             Ten members of an alleged Russian spy
ring, together in court for the first time since their arrest
became public 10 days ago, told a federal judge in New York they
wish to plead guilty.  
 In a hearing today, each of the 10 defendants told U.S.
District Judge  Kimba Wood  in Manhattan that they are ready to
plead guilty to a single count of conspiring to act as agents of
a foreign country without registering with U.S. authorities as
required by law.  
 The guilty pleas come as part of a set of agreements with
U.S. prosecutors and may be a step toward for a prisoner swap
with Russia. Russia will release four prisoners it holds in
exchange for the defendants, the judge said.  
 The maximum penalty for violating the Foreign Agents
Registration Act is five years in prison and a $250,000 fine,
Wood told them in the hearing.  
 The 10 defendants, all of whose real names were released
for the first time at the hearing, are charged with belonging to
a long-term, deep-cover spy operation whose objective was to
infiltrate U.S. policy-making circles after constructing
American identities in New York, suburban New Jersey, Virginia
and the Boston area.  
 A prosecutor at the hearing referred to a U.S.-Russian
agreement. Military researcher Igor Sutyagin, convicted by
Russia of espionage in 2004, arrived in Vienna today from
prison, a human rights activist said.  
 Russian news website Gazeta.ru reported today that the
meeting yesterday between  William Burns , undersecretary of state
for political affairs, and Russian Ambassador  Sergey Kislyak 
produced an exchange deal under which one U.S. spy suspect, Anna
Chapman, will be delivered incognito to Moscow tonight.
Gazeta.ru cited an unidentified diplomat familiar with the
meeting.  
 The case is U.S. v. Metsos, 10-cr-00598, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For Related News and Information:
To see the complaints: NXTW NSN L4S3NL0YHQ0Z &lt;GO&gt; and
NXTW NSN L4S3KA0YHQ0X &lt;GO&gt;.
Top stories: TOP &lt;GO&gt;
Top legal stories: TLAW &lt;GO&gt;
Bloomberg legal resources: BLAW &lt;GO&gt;  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        