-- Russian Oligarchs Mull Succession; `Bears' Prowl for Fortune
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2010-07-08T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/russia-s-oligarchs-weigh-up-succession-plans-as-bears-prowl-for-fortune.html

          
          
             For  Alexander Lebedev , hardly a week
goes by without a call from a crooked security-services agent or
cop angling for a chunk of his $3.4 billion fortune. It’s not a
lifestyle he wishes for his son, Evgeny.  
 “Business in our country is like wrestling with bears,”
Lebedev said in an interview with  Bloomberg Businessweek  for its
July 12 issue. “I’m not sure you’d want to pass that on to your
son -- would you?”  
 At 50, Lebedev is already pondering a dilemma that will
confront the entrepreneurs and industrialists who amassed riches
in the early years of post-communist Russia: What will become of
their billions -- sometimes acquired through unorthodox means --
and how should they plan their successions?  
 By 2020, the average age of the nation’s top 50 businessmen
will exceed 60. While the wealthy may outlive the average male
lifespan of 62, the transfer of assets to the next generation is
a pressing issue in a country where property rights can’t be
guaranteed and corruption ranks on par with Cambodia, Venezuela
and Sierra Leone, according to Berlin-based watchdog
 Transparency International .  
 “There is almost no such thing as private property in
Russia,” said  Stanislav Belkovsky , a former Kremlin adviser who
now heads the National Strategy Institute, a Moscow-based think
tank. “It’s no harder for the authorities to fire an owner than
it is an employee.”  
 Lavrik Sells Out  
 That was apparent in the fallout from a 2007 coal-mining
accident in Siberia that killed more than 100 people, prompting
the regional governor to insist on an ownership change.  Georgy Lavrik , the pit’s general director, who had inherited the asset
from his father a year earlier, sold his 40 percent stake.  
 Russia ranks 143rd out of 179 countries in the 2010  Index
of Economic Freedom , with protection of private property “weak”
and the judicial system “corrupt,” according to the Washington-
based Heritage Foundation.  
 “The easiest asset to transfer to children will be cash in
accounts outside of Russia, such as in Swiss banks, and
property,” Lebedev said in his Moscow office. An ex-KGB agent
who worked in London as the Soviet Embassy’s economic attache,
Lebedev owns a house near Hampton Court Palace outside the city,
a 13th-century castle in Italy, a French chateau and the Swiss
Chateau Guetsch, with its own funicular and luxury restaurant.  
 Yevtushenkov, Potanin  
 Other billionaires are exploring a variety of options for
transferring their wealth. Telecom magnate  Vladimir Yevtushenkov 
has primed his son and daughter by giving them executive roles,
while  Vladimir Potanin  has pledged his fortune to charity,
including a stake in Russia’s biggest mining company.  
 With the potential fragmentation of some of the country’s
biggest companies as owners account for numerous heirs,
corporate stability may increase as business units become better
focused, according to a report by UBS AG.  
 Even so, not all the oligarchs’ children, often sent abroad
for their education, will be equipped with the political clout
of their parents and some, such as the younger Lebedev, show
little interest in returning to Russia to take the helm.  
 “The heirs may not want to be the hamster in the wheel,”
said his father, whose Russian assets include about 19 percent
of airline  OAO Aeroflot  and 26 percent of aircraft leasing
company  Ilyushin Finance Co .  
 Alexander sponsors his 30-year-old son’s investments in
Europe, which include London’s  Sake No Hana  restaurant and
Wintle fashion house. A graduate of the London School of
Economics, Evgeny also runs London’s Evening Standard and
Independent newspapers, which his father bought for 1 pound
each. Evgeny’s representative said he had no time to comment for
this article.  
 Freedom, Opportunities  
 “The new generation has more freedom,” said  Anton Zingarevich , the 28-year-old son of entrepreneur  Boris Zingarevich , who with partners sold 50 percent of Russia’s
biggest paper producer Ilim Pulp Enterprise Ltd. to
International Paper in 2006. “We also have more opportunities;
the trick is using them.”  
 Shunning the paper industry, Anton chose to join his
father’s  Ener1 Inc. , a New York-based maker of lithium-ion
batteries for electric cars, calling the company more
“revolutionary and interesting.”  
 Most of Russia’s top businessmen prioritize international
experience and overseas education for their kids, with 80
percent of children getting schooled both in Russia and abroad,
according to UBS, which polled 25 businesspeople.  
 That experience may bode well for Russia Inc., according to
 Ruben Vardanian , chairman of investment bank Troika Dialog. If
the oligarchs’ children can avoid family strife and meddling
from the Kremlin or corporate competitors, they may be better
prepared to run businesses than their fathers were when they
acquired them, he said.  
 “Russian companies will become more global and the children
will be CEOs of global companies,” Vardanian said. “They will be
more ready for M&A, for control of a global company.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yuriy Humber  in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Russian billionaire Alexander Lebedev  
                       
                         
                           Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Russian billionaire Alexander Lebedev pauses during the St.Petersburg International Economic Forum. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Russian billionaire Alexander Lebedev pauses during the St.Petersburg International Economic Forum. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
