-- Russian Convicted Spy Lands in Vienna
-- Patrick Henry
-- 2010-07-08T15:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/russian-u-s-spy-swap-may-occur-in-england-today-sutyagin-s-lawyer-says.html

          
          
             Russian military researcher  Igor Sutyagin , convicted of espionage in 2004, arrived in Vienna
today in what may be the first stage of a spy swap with the
U.S., a human rights activist said.  
 Sutyagin’s father received a call from Austrian television
reporters who saw Sutyagin disembark from a plane in Vienna,
where he was met by a British officer, Ernst Chyorny, head of
the Public Committee to Protect Scientists, said by telephone
today from Moscow. “There’s no official information,” he said.  
 Anna Stavitskaya , a lawyer for Sutyagin, said a Russian
official met with her client this week in Moscow’s Lefortovo
prison and told Sutyagin he was part of a plan to trade 11
Russian prisoners for people accused of spying in the U.S.  
 Ten alleged members of an a “long-term, deep-cover”
Russian spy ring are scheduled to be arraigned on criminal
charges later today in Manhattan federal court. Prosecutors have
charged 11 people with conspiring to act as illegal agents of
Russia in the U.S.  
 The U.K. government declined to comment on reports that the
British are involved in the spy swap.  
 “It’s essentially a matter for the Americans,” Steve
Field, Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman, told reporters
in London. “We wouldn’t comment on intelligence matters.”  
 Mark Toner , a U.S. State Department spokesman, said
yesterday that the case was discussed at a meeting between
 William Burns , undersecretary of state for political affairs,
and Russian Ambassador  Sergey Kislyak . He didn’t mention any
results of the meeting.  
 Delivered Incognito  
 Russian news website Gazeta.ru  reported  today that the
meeting between Burns and Kislyak produced an exchange deal
under which one U.S. spy suspect, Anna Chapman, will be
delivered incognito to Moscow tonight. Gazeta.ru cited an
unidentified diplomat familiar with the meeting.  
 Robert Baum, an attorney for Chapman, said yesterday that
he was in talks with U.S. prosecutors on “a possible
resolution” of the case. He also said Russian officials met
Chapman on July 4, and two days later they discussed a possible
swap with him.  
 David Siefkin, a U.S. Embassy spokesman in Moscow, declined
to comment on the case. A Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman,
speaking on condition of anonymity in line with ministry policy,
declined to comment.  
 John Rodriguez, a lawyer for a second suspect, Vicky
Pelaez, a columnist for the Spanish-language newspaper El Diario
La Prensa in New York, said he also was contacted yesterday by
Russian officials.  
 Criminal Complaints  
 In an indictment unsealed in New York yesterday, 11
defendants are charged with one count of conspiracy to act as an
unregistered foreign agent of a foreign country. Nine also are
charged with one count of conspiracy to launder money. The
accusations are similar to those contained in two criminal
complaints unsealed June 28 by prosecutors in the office of
Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara .  
 Five defendants in custody in Massachusetts and northern
Virginia were ordered transferred to New York for prosecution in
the case yesterday. Five others are in custody in New York. An
11th member of the alleged ring, Christopher Metsos, was
arrested in Cyprus and then fled after he was released June 29
on bail of 20,000 euros ($24,500).  
 Sutyagin Deal  
 Sutyagin said U.S. officials were present when the Russian
official met with him to discuss the swap, though he didn’t
speak with them, Stavitskaya told Ekho Moskvy radio yesterday.
Stavitskaya confirmed the comments when contacted by Bloomberg
News today and declined to elaborate. The U.S. has compiled a
list of 11 Russian prisoners, including Sutyagin, who they
wanted to swap, the lawyer said.  
 As part of the deal, Sutyagin, who has consistently
maintained his innocence, was told to sign a document that
included an admission of guilt. Sutyagin said the Russian
official “made me an offer I couldn’t refuse,” explaining that
if any of the 11 people on the list declined to take part, the
deal would fall through, according to his lawyer.  
 Stavitskaya stressed that Sutyagin had signed the admission
of guilt under duress.  
 According to Sutyagin, Sergei Skripal, a former
intelligence officer convicted of espionage, is also on the list
of prisoners who may be exchanged, Stavitskaya said.  
 The Russian newspaper Kommersant  reported  today that the
suspected spies in the U.S. may be flown to Russia today if the
swap takes place.  
 Other Russian names on the list include Alexander
Zaporozhsky, convicted in 2003 and sentenced to 18 years for
espionage, and Alexander Sypachyov, identified as a CIA agent
convicted in 2002, Kommersant reported, citing unidentified
officials in the security services.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Moscow at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net ;
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Russian weapons specialist Igor Sutyagin is seen behind bars in Moscow City Court. Source: AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
