-- Russian Agents Plead Guilty, Set for Prisoner Swap
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-09T00:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/russian-agents-plead-guilty-in-u-s-face-deportation-in-prisoner-swap.html

          
          
             Ten members of a Russian spy ring
pleaded guilty to conspiring to act as unregistered foreign
agents, and will be expelled immediately from the U.S. in a
prisoner exchange with Russia.  
 “The Russian Federation agrees to release four individuals
who are incarcerated in Russia for alleged contact with the
United States,” U.S. District Judge Judge  Kimba Wood  in
Manhattan said in a hearing today, referring to an agreement
between the two countries that was part of the resolution in the
case.  
 Wood sentenced all 10 to time served and ordered they be
deported. The U.S. won’t drop money-laundering charges against
eight of the defendants until “the full terms of the
intergovernmental agreement” between Russia and the U.S. are
met, U.S. Attorney  Michael Farbiarz  said in court. That count
carries a possible sentence of 20 years in prison.  
 One by one, each of the accused agents admitted carrying
money or coded messages, secretly communicating with Russian
officials and instructing others on how to find information
useful to Russia. Their objective was to infiltrate U.S. policy-
making circles after constructing American aliases and
identities in suburbs and cities along the East Coast.  
 U.S.-Russia Arrangement  
 The prosecution and investigation of the Russian “deep-
cover” agents “sends a message to every other intelligence
gathering agency that if you come over here to spy, you will be
exposed and arrested,” said Preet Bharara, the U.S. Attorney in
Manhattan. Bharara said the timing of the arrests wasn’t
designed to obtain a “bargaining chip” to trade for Russian
prisoners.  
 The pleas are part of an arrangement between the U.S. and
Russia that includes the prisoner swap. Russia will release four
people it holds in exchange for the 10 defendants, Wood said in
the hearing. The four “are in custody in Russia for alleged
contact with the United States,” according to the agreement.  
 Some of the prisoners to be released have worked for
Russian military or intelligence agencies, prosecutors said.  
 Military researcher Igor Sutyagin, convicted by Russia of
espionage in 2004, arrived in Vienna today, Ernst Chyorny, head
of the Public Committee to Protect Scientists, said by telephone
today from Moscow.  
 The defendants will be “immediately expelled from the
United States,” the Justice Department said in a statement.  
 Russian Officials  
 Lawyers for each of the defendants said their clients met
with Russian Federation officials after their arrest. Farbiarz
said the visits were conducted under provisions of the Geneva
Convention.  
 John Rodriguez, a lawyer for Vicky Pelaez, told Wood that
his client had been told “she would be allowed upon her arrival
to Russia to go to any country in the world, including Peru. She
would be provided free housing by the Russian Federation and a
monthly stipend of $2,000, which was for life, and offered visas
to her children for the purposes of visiting her in the Russian
Federation.”  
 Pelaez, a columnist for the Spanish language El Diario
newspaper, is a naturalized U.S. citizen born in Peru.  
 As a condition of the plea agreements, some of the
defendants disclosed their real names publicly today for first
time.  
 Richard and Cynthia Murphy of Montclair, New Jersey told
Wood they are really Vladimir Guryev and Lydia Guryev; Donald
Howard Heathfield and Tracey Lee Ann Foley of Cambridge,
Massachusetts said they are Andrey Bezrukov and Elena Vavilova.
Prosecutors earlier disclosed that defendants Michael Zottoli
and Patricia Mills are Mikhail Kutsik and Natalia Pereverzeva.  
 True Identities  
 Juan Lazaro gave his name as Mikhail Vasenkov. Pelaez, his
wife, operated in the U.S. under her true identity. Defendants
Mikhail Semenko and Anna Chapman also lived without an alias.  
 Lazaro, who said he has a Ph.D. from the New School in New
York, said, “from the 1990s to the present day in the Southern
District of New York, I agreed to work as an agent of the
Russian Federation.”  
 Speaking through a Spanish interpreter, Palaez told Judge
Wood, “on behalf of my husband, I agreed to travel to Peru to
meet a person who was with the Russian Federation,” she said.  
 Farbiarz asked Wood to make more inquiries of what Pelaez
had taken with her to Peru, Pelaez answered, “I took letters in
invisible ink to this person.”  
 The case is U.S. v. Metsos, 10-cr-00598, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        