-- Scottish & Southern Proposes Project to Demonstrate Carbon-Dioxide Capture
-- Catherine Airlie
-- 2010-07-08T13:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/scottish-southern-proposes-project-to-demonstrate-carbon-dioxide-capture.html

          
          
             Scottish & Southern Energy Plc , the
U.K.’s second-largest power generator, plans to demonstrate the
capture and storage of carbon dioxide emissions at a gas-fired
plant in Scotland after it shelved a similar project in 2007.  
 The utility wants to test so-called post-combustion
technology at  Peterhead  to catch emissions after fuel has been
burnt to generate 400 megawatts of electricity, the Perth,
Scotland-based utility said in a  statement  on its website today.
The Peterhead station has 1,490 megawatt and 640 megawatt units.  
 Carbon capture technology “is going to have to apply as
widely as possible,” Chief Executive Officer  Ian Marchant  said
in the statement. “This means gas-fired power stations as well
as coal.”  
 Britain, which relies on fossil-fueled power stations for
about 80 percent of its electricity, is counting on carbon
capture and storage to meet emissions goals while maintaining
energy supplies. The U.K. will fund four demonstration projects
with a levy on energy bills.  
 E.ON AG, Germany’s biggest utility, and Iberdrola SA’s
Scottish Power are competing to win funding to demonstrate CCS
at existing coal plants. RWE AG, based in Essen, Germany, pulled
out of the U.K. contest last year, saying the timetable for the
competition didn’t fit in with its coal-development plans.  
 U.K. CCS leader  
 Chris Huhne , the U.K.’s secretary of state for energy and
climate change, said today Britain could lead on CCS development
and there would be jobs for local businesses.  
 “We’ve been playing catch-up in other parts of the green
economy where other countries have implemented bolder, more
progressive policies,” Huhne said at a government CCS senior
stakeholder event, according to an e-mailed statement. “We will
not make the same mistake with CCS. I know that business needs
certainty and stability and I firmly believe the UK is well
placed to lead on CCS.”  
 Scottish & Southern and  BP Plc  in 2007 shelved a plan to
capture CO2 at the Peterhead plant that would pump the emissions
into a North Sea oil field to raise crude production. The
government funding for CCS will demonstrate the long-term
storage and large-scale capture of CO2 from power stations,
which has not yet been proven.  
 The U.S. Energy Department said yesterday it will invest
$67 million over three years in 10 CCS projects aiming to
improve the energy efficiency of capturing the discharges from
coal-fired plants.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Airlie  at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        