-- Santos Surges After Reports Shell May Buy Stake in Australian Gas Project
-- Ben Sharples
-- 2010-07-09T08:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/shell-may-buy-1-8-billion-stake-in-santos-gladstone-project-review-says.html

          
          
             Santos Ltd. , proposing a A$16.4
billion ($14 billion) gas project in Queensland, jumped the
most in more than 19 months in Sydney trading after newspapers
reported Royal Dutch Shell Plc may buy a stake in the venture.  
 Santos  rose  9.7 percent to A$14.00, the biggest gain since
November 2008, after the reports, which also said Shell would
become the operator of the venture. That compares with a 0.9
percent increase in the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index .  
 Shell may spend A$2 billion to acquire as much as 35
percent of Santos’s Gladstone liquefied natural gas project, the
Australian Financial Review said, without saying where it got
the information. In a separate report, the  Australian said  the
Hague-based Shell is competing with Korea Gas Corp. and China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as Sinopec, for a stake.  
 “Shell probably have a better ability to deliver large-
scale projects on budget and on schedule,”  Mark Greenwood , an
analyst with Citigroup Inc., said in a client note today. A pact
“makes sense for Santos” because it reduces the competition
for resources and increases the likelihood of further gas
processing plants in the future, Greenwood said.  
 The Australian government’s compromise reached last week
with mining companies on resource tax proposals ended
uncertainty over how ventures like the one Santos plans with
partner  Petroliam Nasional Bhd.  will be taxed. The agreement on
levies includes extending a 26-year-old petroleum resource rent
tax to cover onshore oil and gas projects.  
 ‘Potential Sales’  
 Santos, Australia’s third-largest oil and gas producer,
remains in “detailed ongoing discussions with a number of
parties in relation to potential LNG sales, equity in the
project and collaboration” between Queensland LNG ventures, the
Adelaide-based company said in a statement. Shell’s Melbourne-
based spokesman,  Phil Connole , declined to comment.  
 Huang Wensheng , a Beijing-based spokesman for Sinopec,
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  
 BG Group Plc, Santos and ConocoPhillips are among companies
planning more than $40 billion of investment in Queensland
projects that will convert gas extracted from coal seams into
LNG. Shell and PetroChina Co. agreed in March to spend A$3.5
billion for Arrow Energy Ltd., Australia’s largest holder of
coal seam permits.  
 “The Santos, Shell, PetroChina tie-up makes the most
strategic and logical sense from a reserve coverage perspective
and the fact that their acreage positions are right next door to
each other,”  Nik Burns , a Melbourne-based analyst for RBS
Morgans, said by telephone today. “Shell and PetroChina are in
joint ventures with Petronas in various other projects around
the world, so there are historic relationships there also.”  
 Sinopec, Korea Gas  
 Shell is focusing investment in Australia, the Gulf of
Mexico and on U.S. gas that’s found in hard-to-reach rock
formations. As much as 40 percent of the company’s capital
spending in the next few years has been earmarked for the Asia-
Pacific region. Shell, which has been adding more gas than oil
to its resources since 2005, expects the share of gas as a
proportion of total output to rise to 52 percent in 2012.  
 Sinopec, Asia’s largest refiner, said in May that it was in
gas-supply discussions with Santos. The Adelaide-based company
may raise A$1 billion selling as much as 19.9 percent in the
Gladstone project, and Sinopec is a potential buyer, CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets said June 11.  
 Korea Gas, the world’s biggest buyer of LNG, also said in
May that it had started discussions to buy a stake in the
project. Santos is prepared to sell more than 9 percent of the
venture as part of a fuel-supply agreement, Chief Executive
Officer  David Knox  said the same month.  
 ‘Still in Talks’  
 Jang Seok Hyo , executive vice president of Korea Gas’s
resources division, said today the company is still in talks
with Santos. He declined to give any further details.  
 Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  last week reached
the accord with mining companies on tax proposals, ending a
dispute that cost predecessor  Kevin Rudd  his job. Santos and BG
are due this year to make final decisions on whether to build
projects in Queensland.  
 Deutsche Bank AG estimates the development by Santos of two
processing plants with a capacity to export 7.2 million metric
tons of LNG per year will cost A$16.4 billion. Santos and
Petronas, as its Kuala Lumpur-based, 40 percent partner is known,
are yet to update an initial capital cost of A$7.7 billion.  
 Coal-seam gas is mostly methane found on the surface of
coal. The gas can be extracted when pressure on the seams is
reduced, usually by removing water. LNG is natural gas chilled
to liquid form for transport by ship to destinations not
connected by pipeline.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        