-- Shutters Come Down on Japan's Provinces in Risk for Deficit
-- Toru Fujioka
-- 2010-07-08T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/shutters-come-down-on-japan-provinces-as-slowing-growth-poses-deficit-risk.html

          
          
             In the block by Mika Nasu’s clothing
shop on the main street of Atami, a resort town south of Tokyo,
13 of 19 stores are shuttered, a sign Japan’s economic revival
has yet to reach the provinces.  
 “Recovery? What recovery?” said Nasu, 50. “It just gets
worse and worse.”  
 Rural areas are bracing for growth to stall as Tokyo leads
the rebound from the country’s deepest postwar  recession . Firms
from seven of nine regions expect business to worsen in the next
three months, while Kanto, the home of the national capital, was
the only one where companies anticipate an improvement,
according to yesterday’s Bank of Japan Sakura Report, a regional
survey akin to the Federal Reserve’s Beige Book.  
 Prospects for Nasu and the more than 60 million Japanese
living outside metropolitan areas may depend on the outcome of
an election this weekend. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  wants to
tackle the nation’s  debt  by capping spending, including money
dished out to local governments. Rural decline will spur welfare
costs as elderly people deserted by their children rely on the
government for nursing care, said economist  Tamai Chino .  
 “The disparity is widening as more people move to the big
cities” to find work, said Chino, who focuses on regional
economies at Mizuho Research Institute in Tokyo. “The budget
cuts will hit the rural economies hard.”  
 Kan’s promise to contain Japan’s record 883 trillion yen
($10 trillion) debt and balance the budget by 2020 has
contributed to a decline in the government’s borrowing costs.
The 10-year benchmark bond yielded 1.14 percent yesterday, close
to a seven-year low.  
 ‘Can’t Survive’  
 Chino says little of the country’s 2002-2007 recovery
reached the countryside before the U.S. subprime mortgage crisis
sent Japan into another recession.  
 “It was about 10 years ago when the stores that closed no
longer opened with new tenants,” said Fusako Watanabe, a 74-
year-old barber in Atami. “Shopkeepers just can’t survive.”  
 Some 50.9 percent of Japanese lived in the metropolitan
areas encompassing Tokyo, Nagoya and Osaka last year, an
increase from 48.9 percent in 1990, according to the statistics
bureau. Of the country’s 47 prefectures, only the capital and
six others saw their  populations  expand while the rest shrank.  
 “Even if students want to find work in these rural areas,
they can’t; there just aren’t any  jobs ,” said Motohiro Adachi,
an economics professor at Wakayama University in western Japan,
who has visited about 300 neglected shopping districts and
written a book on the topic. “That forces them to go to the big
cities while the regions lose their youth, which makes it even
harder for their economies to come back. It’s a vicious cycle.”  
 Vulnerable to Cuts  
 Local governments’ reliance on money transferred from
revenue generated in Tokyo has discouraged independence and
innovation, making them vulnerable to funding cuts, according to
 Martin Schulz .  
 “They never saw the urge to develop their own business
models, their own products, their own bridge to global
markets,” said Schulz, senior economist in Tokyo at Fujitsu
Research Institute. “Tokyo is not earning enough money anymore
to spend freely throughout the country,” leaving the regional
economies on their own with no blueprint to recovery, he said.  
 The Democratic Party of Japan rode to power for the first
time last year promising to hand households the money that it
said the Liberal Democratic Party threw at roads and buildings
no one needed. The DPJ-led coalition slashed a record 18.3
percent from the public works budget this fiscal year. Among the
construction projects it is examining halting is the Yanba dam
in Naganohara, central Japan.  
 Desperate Need  
 “We desperately need those government subsidies,” said
Shinichi Hida, a Naganohara town official. “Otherwise, I don’t
know how this town can get by with so many elderly people” to
support.  
 Japan’s average medical costs swelled 18.3 percent to
407,000 yen per person over the 10 years to fiscal 2007 as the
population got  older , according to the Health Ministry. Health
care expenses are lower in Tokyo, whose citizens are younger
than the national average.  
 What may separate Tokyo from the rest of the country is
that Japan’s services are concentrated in the capital. Those
jobs are unlikely to disappear the way factory ones are as
exporters move their plants abroad to lower costs.  Kobe Steel
Ltd.  and  Nissan Motor Co.  are among businesses planning to
produce more in Asia.  
 One exception is Kitakyushu, a city in southern Japan that
has turned itself into a local hub for manufacturers that export
to Asia, according to Schulz.  Toto Ltd. , the country’s biggest
toilet maker, forecasts net income of 6 billion yen in the year
ending March, almost seven times as much as it made last fiscal
year. About 13 percent of the Kitakyushu-based company’s sales
come from abroad, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 For places like Atami, revival may be harder.  
 “This used to be a lively place,” Watanabe said of her
hometown. “We’re just hoping for some sign that that life
returns to this town.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians walk past a closed store along a shopping street in Atami City. Photographer: Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Rural areas are bracing for growth to stall as Tokyo leads the rebound from the country’s deepest postwar recession. Photographer: Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians walk through a local shopping area in Atami City. Photographer: Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
