-- Six-Month Moratorium on Deep-Water Oil Drilling Rejected by Appeals Court
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-07-08T18:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/six-month-moratorium-on-deep-water-oil-drilling-rejected-by-appeals-court.html

          
          
             The Obama administration is asking  BP
Plc  to respond within 24 hours to questions about the company’s
plans to switch well caps to stem the flow of oil into the Gulf
of Mexico.  
 Admiral  Thad Allen , the national incident commander, wrote
a letter to  Bob Dudley , chief executive officer of the company’s
Gulf Coast restoration unit, asking five questions concerning
contingency plans, whether enough testing has been conducted,
and additional plans for increasing burning or skimming, among
other questions.  
 “We are entering a critical stage in the Deepwater Horizon
response where key decisions will be made in executing plans for
total collection of oil at the wellhead and for potentially
securing the well completely,” Allen said.  
 BP is proposing to remove one oil-collection ship while it
replaces the current oil cap with a tighter-fitting sealing cap
over the next several days. In the changeover period, an
official said at the White House, there will be a period in
which more oil will leak into the Gulf of Mexico.  
 BP is asking the government to approve its plans for
changing the cap now, because of Allen’s concerns about
predictions of an active storm and hurricane season. BP may have
between seven and 10 days of good weather to make the cap
change, an administration official said.  
 Once the switch in caps is made, BP would be able to
capture more oil than is currently possible, said officials who
briefed reporters at the White House.  
 Allen sought answers from BP on “a detailed contingency
plan” in case the capping of the well fails. He also asked for
a detailed schedule for completion of the two relief wells,
which are being drilled simultaneously.  
 BP may respond to the letter as soon as tonight, an
administration official said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        