-- Profit Growth to Slow to Year's Lowest Rate in Third Quarter
-- Ercan Ersoy
-- 2010-07-08T22:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/slowing-profit-growth-at-chevron-3m-triggers-armageddon-hypochondria-.html

          
          
             Corporate profits may grow at the
slowest pace of the year in the third quarter as an economic
recovery that’s short on jobs and consumer demand curbs income
at companies from  Chevron Corp.  to  3M Co.   
 Earnings at Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies may rise
25 percent in the three months through September, compared with
projected gains of 34 percent for the just-ended second quarter,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Per-
share earnings rose 52 percent from January through March.  
 “We’ve got players out there that are suffering from
Armageddon hypochondria,” said  James Paulsen , chief investment
strategist of Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis, which
oversees $375 billion. Instead of portending an economic crisis,
the slower profit growth is “your commonplace, very normal mid-
cycle soft patch in the recovery.”  
 Financial-market turmoil has increased risks to the
recovery, the International Monetary Fund said yesterday, while
predicting the world economy will grow 4.6 percent this year,
the most since 2007. In the U.S., the S&P 500 dropped 12 percent
from April through June as unemployment averaged  9.7 percent  and
new home sales slumped to the  lowest pace on record  in May.  
 Companies in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index may post average
profit gains of 57 percent this year, dwindling to 22 percent in
2011, based on analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Luxury
carmakers such as Daimler AG are benefiting from the euro’s
slide against the dollar, while the euro’s weakness against the
yen may have curbed earnings at Japanese technology firms.  
 Global Indicators  
 Sales at non-financial companies will be the best
indicators of the economy’s health worldwide, said  Sinan Akiman ,
chief investment officer at Istanbul-based Garanti Asset
Management, which oversees $4.2 billion.  
 “If there is no, or very limited, increase in sales of
non-financial companies, that means the economy is still not
recovering,” Akiman said. “We should especially look at big
retail industry companies.”  
 In the U.S., earnings gains for S&P 500 companies will
continue through the second half of 2010 and average 34 percent
for the full year, analysts surveyed by Bloomberg project.  
 “Our economy is beginning to repair itself, but it’s by no
means ready to run a marathon,” said  Matt McCormick  of
Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which has $2.8 billion
under management. “I do see earnings growth, but it’s not going
to be broad based.”  
 Alcoa Inc. , the first company in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average to report earnings for the second quarter, may post a
profit for the first time in three quarters on July 12.  
 Materials Companies  
 Alcoa, based in New York, and other commodities companies
may see earnings growth of 46 percent in the three months
through September, down from a projected 93 percent gain in the
second quarter, analysts estimated. The estimates rank that
sector among the top performers of the S&P 500.  
 Financial companies are predicted to post an average gain
of 54 percent in the third quarter, with increases of 36 percent
for information technology firms and 39 percent for energy
companies. The estimates all represent declines from the quarter
that ended in June, when those sectors are projected to have
grown 84 percent, 53 percent and 73 percent, respectively.  
 In energy, fuel demand may be stunted at Chevron, Exxon
Mobil Corp. and ConocoPhillips, the largest U.S. oil companies.
New York oil futures, which traded as high as $87.15 a barrel in
May, dropped to as low as $71.09 this month.  
 Lid on Oil Prices  
 “Between the consumer and worldwide industrial demand,
there’s probably a lid on the price of oil for the time being,”
said  Barry James , who manages more than $2 billion, including
shares of all three major U.S. oil companies, at James
Investment Research in Xenia, Ohio.  
 San Ramon, California-based Chevron’s net income may more
than double for the second quarter, then slow to about 10
percent this quarter, analysts estimate.  
 For the world’s biggest publicly traded company, Irving,
Texas-based  Exxon Mobil , third-quarter profit will probably
climb 40 percent after a predicted jump of 70 percent in the
second quarter, according to analysts’ average estimates.  
 London-based BP Plc, which is trying to cap a Gulf of
Mexico well leaking as much as 60,000 barrels of oil a day, may
see net income plunge more than 40 percent this quarter after a
similar projected drop in the three months through June.  
 Analysts have trimmed estimates for U.S. financial
companies in the past month in response to weaker revenue from
trading and investment banking.  
 Financial Companies  
 “There won’t be any standout companies reporting to the
upside, and there could be some real shockers on the downside,”
said  Dick Bove , a Lutz, Florida-based analyst at Rochdale
Securities LLC. Investment banking, trading and retail sales of
financial products “suffered severe reversals from the first
quarter,” when four of the largest U.S. banks reported zero
days of trading losses, Bove said.  
 At Goldman Sachs Group Inc., earnings may fall to $2.30 a
share in the second quarter from $5.71 in the year-earlier
period and $5.59 in the first three months of the year.  
 Technology companies benefited from rebounding consumer
demand in the first half and relatively easy comparisons to the
year-earlier period, said  Shaw Wu , a San Francisco-based analyst
at Kaufman Bros. “There are signs things are slowing down
somewhat” for the second half, he said.  
 Apple Inc. may report fiscal third-quarter net income of
about $2.8 billion on July 20, analysts estimate. The Cupertino,
California-based company posted profit of $3.1 billion in the
quarter through March, a gain of 90 percent.  
 Apple’s Attraction  
 “Apple helped drive a consumer recovery,” Wu said. “The
attractiveness of their products got people into stores.”  
 Net income at Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft Corp. may
rise 24 percent to about $4.1 billion in the three months
through June as demand for personal computers continues to
recover faster than initial forecasts from market research firm
Gartner Inc. Sales at the world’s largest software maker may
rise 16 percent, the most in two years, according to the average
estimate.  
 Google Inc., grappling with slowing growth of search
engine-related advertising, enters the second half facing
stronger rivals including Facebook Inc., Yahoo! Inc. and
Microsoft, said Caris & Co. analyst  Sandeep Aggarwal  in San
Francisco. In addition, a stronger dollar will hurt  Google  in
Europe, where the company gets about 35 percent of its revenue.  
 Japanese Technology  
 Japanese technology companies’ earnings were likely
crimped by the yen’s strength against the euro, putting them at
a disadvantage to Asian rivals, even as demand for products such
as semiconductors and flat-screen televisions recovers.  
 The yen strengthened 17 percent against the euro in the
April-June period, the best performer among 17 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  
 “The currency will certainly help non-Japanese Asian
manufacturers,” said  David Huo , who helps oversee $1.2 billion
at RBC Investment Management (Asia) Ltd. in Hong Kong.  
 Sony Corp.  will likely report a narrower loss in the
quarter ended June 30 from a year earlier, after the Tokyo-based
maker of Bravia televisions fired workers and shut factories.  
 Per-share profit growth at Oak Brook, Illinois-based
 McDonald’s Corp. , the world’s largest restaurant company, may
narrow in the second quarter as well as the second half,
according to analysts’ estimates.  
 Seeking Stable Names  
 McDonald’s and companies such as General Mills Inc., the
maker of Lucky Charms cereal, still appeal to investors as the
economy will probably grow about 2 percent this year, said  Keith Wirtz , who oversees $18 billion as chief investment officer at
Fifth Third Asset Management Inc. in Cincinnati.  
 “We want names that are going to be stable and true,”
Wirtz said in an interview. “We think companies like McDonald’s
will become more coveted.”  
 St. Paul, Minnesota-based  3M , the maker of 55,000 products
including Scotch tape, may post 21 percent per-share profit
growth for the just-ended period, based on the average
estimates. Analysts predict growth will steadily decrease in the
second half amid tougher comparisons and fewer sales of
respiratory masks used last year to ward off the H1N1 flu.  
 “2010 is kind of a twisted year: First half, huge growth,
second half, not as big but still growing,” said  Ajay Kejriwal ,
a New York-based analyst with FBR Capital Markets who has an
“outperform” rating on 3M shares. “We are saying, ‘Look beyond
the second half. The long term picture is much brighter.’”  
 Among automotive companies,  Ford Motor Co.  may post its
fifth straight quarterly net profit, its longest streak since
2005. Second-quarter net income may be about $1.6 billion at the
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker, according to estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Ford and Toyota  
 “They’ve gained enough market share to offset some
potential weakness in the North American market,”  Brian Johnson , a Chicago-based auto analyst for Barclays Capital, said
in an interview. “We think Ford earnings are secure given their
demonstrated ability to increase market share.”  
 Toyota Motor Corp. , Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co.,
Japan’s three largest automakers, will probably see improvements
in the three months ended June 30 as car demand recovered from a
recession in the U.S. and surged in China, according to three
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 “Last year was an abnormal one, so results will be far
better,” said  Koji Endo , a Tokyo-based analyst at Advanced
Research Japan, who estimates Toyota will report operating
profit of 100 billion yen ($1.14 billion) to 150 billion yen.
The carmaker posted a 77.8 billion yen loss a year earlier.  
 In Europe, mass-market manufacturers are grappling with
expiring government sales incentives while luxury makers are
taking advantage of surging demand in China, according to
Munich-based UniCredit’s  Georg Stuerzer , who is ranked first
among analysts of German luxury-car makers tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Daimler, BMW  
 Daimler, the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars, probably boosted
second-quarter sales by 19 percent to 23.3 billion euros ($29.3
billion), according to Stuerzer. Full-year revenue may climb 10
percent to 87.2 billion euros, the average of 28 analysts’
estimates.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the largest maker of
luxury cars, may boost annual revenue for the first time in
three years, analyst estimates show.  
 BMW and Daimler, which both have production plants in the
U.S., also benefit from the growing value of sales from the
world’s second-largest national auto market amid the euro’s
decline, according to Stuerzer.  
 U.S. industrial companies may see profit gains widen to 34
percent this quarter from 15 percent in the past three months,
analysts estimate. The sector, which includes companies from 3M
to General Electric Co. and Boeing Co., may see an average
earnings increase of 15 percent this year.  
 Industrial Companies  
 GE, the world’s biggest maker of jet engines and medical-
imaging equipment, may post  per-share profit  of 27 cents a
share, little-changed from last year’s 26 cents, based on the
average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Alstom SA, the French maker of power-generation turbines,
high-speed trains and trams, expects  operating profit  to be
lower in fiscal 2011 and 2012 than in the 12 months through
March. CEO  Patrick Kron  said in June the pace and scale of
Europe’s recovery are unclear.  
 The second quarter will yield “very, very good results for
the industrial sector, thanks to exports to emerging markets and
destocking,”  Gael de-Bray , an analyst at Societe Generale in
Paris, said in a July 5 interview. Alstom will be among the few
exceptions, he said, partly because of a “pronounced wait-and-
see attitude at utilities.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Jason Pride, director of investment strategy at Glenmede, speaks about the outlook for U.S. stocks.
     Pride also discusses the U.S. economy and labor market. PEAK6 Investments LP's Jud Pyle also speaks. They speak with Carol Massar, Matt Miller, Adam Johnson and Dominic Chu on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Larry Kantor, head of research at Barclays Capital Inc., talks about the outlook for U.S. equities, corporate earnings and economic growth.
     Kantor speaks with Matt Miller and Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
