-- Solar Subsidy Cuts Are Passed by Parliament in Berlin as Industry Protests
-- Jeremy van Loon
-- 2010-07-08T13:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/solar-aid-returns-for-vote-in-german-parliament-as-industry-protests-cuts.html

          
          
             German lawmakers backed reductions in
solar-power subsidies of as much as 16 percent after offering
the industry an extra three months to adjust to the cuts in the
world’s biggest market for photovoltaic panels.  
 Solar-power industry representatives said the bill passed
by the lower house of parliament in Berlin today will increase
pressure on companies such as  Q-Cells SE  and  Solarworld AG  as
they face competition from producers in China.  
 “Germany’s solar industry now faces the big challenge of
lowering production costs even faster than they were cut in the
past,”  Carsten Koernig , who heads the BSW German solar-industry
lobby group, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government says subsidies must
be pared because solar-panel prices have fallen by as much as 40
percent, leading to a glut on the German market. The coalition
had pressed for deeper cuts because of rising electricity prices
for consumers.  
 Solar panel makers rose today in Frankfurt trading.
Solarworld rose as much as 5.5 percent to 11.32 euros, while Q-
Cells gained as much as 4.5 percent to 6.10 euros.  
 Domestic manufacturers’ shares have suffered this year amid
uncertainty about how much the tariffs would be reduced. Even
with the cuts, the German PV market will remain the world’s
largest this year, accounting for more than half of installed
capacity, according the Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  
 Shares Sinking  
 The Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index, with 38 members
including Q-Cells, First Solar Inc. and Solarworld, has declined
23 percent this year.  
 Today’s measure trims so-called feed-in tariffs for solar
power fed into Germany’s electricity grid by 16 percent for
rooftop equipment, 15 percent for farmland and 11 percent for
spaces such as former industrial or military sites, effective
July 1.  
 After some German state governments objected, the planned
reductions were scaled back by three percentage points for each
category until Sept. 30, when the full cuts kick in.  
 Resistance to the subsidy cuts centers on eastern Germany,
where much of the country’s solar industry is based. The upper
house, in which the 16 states are represented, is scheduled to
hold the final vote on the measure tomorrow.  
 The BSW said the changes are “merely cosmetic” and it’s
asking Merkel ’s government to reconsider the “drastic” cuts or
risk job losses.  
 The measure before lawmakers is a “fair compromise” that
offers a “softer landing” for the solar industry, Thomas
Kauch, environmental affairs spokesman in the lower house for
the Free Democrats, Merkel’s junior coalition ally, said July 5.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeremy van Loon  in Berlin at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        