-- South African Forward-Rates Agreements Fall to Record Low on Rate-Cut Bet
-- Garth Theunissen
-- 2010-07-08T13:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/south-african-forward-rate-agreements-fall-to-record-low-on-rate-cut-bet.html

          
          
             South African money-market futures,
used by traders to gauge interest-rate expectations, slumped to
the lowest-ever level as speculation intensifies the central
bank will cut its benchmark interest rate this year.  
 Forward-rate agreements showed that contracts for  three-
month cash due in three months  declined 5 basis points to 6.285
percent as of 3:20 p.m. in Johannesburg, the lowest since the
central bank first introduced its repurchase rate in 1999. That
compares with a three-month  Johannesburg interbank agreed rate 
of 6.59 percent and a  central bank rate  of 6.5 percent.  
 Central bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said yesterday that
Europe’s economic slowdown will affect South African growth,
which is “hesitant” and “uneven.” Withdrawal of government
stimulus packages worldwide may undermine the global recovery
and low interest rates may offset the impact, she said.  
 “The market perceived Marcus’s comments to be very
dovish,” said  Ian Scott , a bond and currency trader at Stanlib
Asset Management in Johannesburg. “The market seems to be
fairly confident of a rate cut at the September monetary policy
meeting.”  
 Slowing inflation has given the Reserve Bank scope to
reduce its key rate seven times since December 2008 to foster a
recovery after the economy fell into its first recession in 17
years in 2009. Policy makers unexpectedly cut the rate by 50
basis points to 6.5 percent on March 25, the lowest since the
repurchase, or repo, rate was first introduced.  
 Inflation  eased to a four-year low of 4.6 percent in May,
helped by the rand’s 24 percent rally against the dollar since
the start of last year and an improved corn crop that made the
staple food more affordable. The central bank targets an
inflation rate between 3 and 6 percent.  
 Expectations  
 Marcus’s comments have “added to expectations that we’ll
see another cut in September,” said  John Cairns , head of
foreign-exchange research at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg.
“This shouldn’t restrict the rand at all given the still
excellent absolute rate differential.”  
 South Africa’s main interest rate compares with benchmark
deposit returns of 0.1 percent in Japan and 0.25 percent in the
U.S., making the rand an attractive purchase for so-called carry
trades. The transactions, which involve borrowing money in
countries with low rates to invest in markets that offer higher
returns, have helped the rand rally almost 28 percent since the
start of last year.  
 The rand appreciated as much as 1.2 percent to 7.5368, the
strongest level since June 28, before trading at 7.5426. Against
the euro, the rand gained 0.4 percent to 9.5702.  
 Rate Cut  
 The Pretoria-based Reserve Bank is scheduled to announce
its next interest rate decision on July 22 and the following
monetary policy committee meeting is set for Sept. 9.  
 Government bonds rose for a third day, with the benchmark
13.5 percent security due September 2015 gaining 26 cents to
124.02 rand, reducing the yield by 6 basis points to 7.76
percent.  Three-month forward-rate agreements , or FRAs, were 29
basis points below the three-month benchmark  Johannesburg
interbank agreed rate  today, the  widest  gap since March 26.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        