-- Soybean Yields Will Drop on Climate, Ozone, University of Illinois Says
-- Rudy Ruitenberg
-- 2010-07-08T10:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/soybean-yields-will-drop-on-climate-ozone-university-of-illinois-says.html

          
          
             Climate change and pollution may cut
yields for soybeans and other crops by 2050 unless plants are
adapted, the University of Illinois said, citing research.  
 Tests showed crops grown in open fields benefitted less
than expected from higher levels of carbon dioxide in the air,
the university said in a report published yesterday. The yield
increase was only half of that assumed by the United Nations’
climate-change panel to predict world food supply in 2050,
according to the  report .  
 The world must grow 70 percent more food by 2050 to feed a
rising population, the UN’s Food and Agriculture Organization
says. One assumed positive aspect to climate change has been
that higher carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere will
stimulate photosynthesis and boost yields, the researchers said.  
 “More research in these areas is critical,” Don Ort,
professor of crop science at the University of Illinois, said in
a statement. “How top-producing areas fare with climate change
will be very important in determining global food security for
the future.”  
 The university studied how soybeans in open fields grew in
higher carbon dioxide and ozone levels, in research funded by
the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Department of Energy and the
Illinois Council on Food and Agriculture Research.  
 Rising carbon dioxide levels are creating a global warming
effect that changes precipitation patterns, and rainfall during
the Midwest growing season is projected to drop 30 percent by
2050, Ort said.  
 Ozone pollution has suppressed soybean yields in Indiana,
Illinois and Iowa by 15 percent, the university said, citing
research at its Soybean Free Air Concentration Enrichment
facility, known as  SoyFACE .  
 ‘Significant Sensitivity’  
 Using the same soybean cultivars in 2050 as those being
planted now would cut yields by another 20 percent because of
the expected rise in ozone levels by the middle of the century,
according to Ort.  
 “If pollution from Chicago blows out of the city into
agricultural areas, it can interact with sunlight to produce
ozone and cause plant yields to suffer,” Ort said. “We are
applying for funding to examine corn’s sensitivity to ozone at
SoyFACE, but historical analysis indicates a significant
sensitivity and yield loss.”  
 Research at SoyFACE and data from the past 10 years
indicates that soybean yields decrease by 1.5 bushels per acre
for every additional one-part-per-billion of ozone in the
atmosphere, according to the researcher. The U.S. Department of
Agriculture forecasts average soybean yields of 42.9 bushels an
acre this year, from a record 44 bushels an acre in 2009.  
 “Agricultural areas located near industrial areas will
face the greatest challenges,” the university said. “Of the
world’s two top-growing areas for soybean, the U.S. faces a much
greater ozone challenge than Brazil.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        