-- Stress Tests of European Banks Will Be `Very Serious,' EU's Juncker Says
-- Jonathan Stearns
-- 2010-07-08T07:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/stress-tests-of-european-banks-will-be-very-serious-eu-s-juncker-says.html

          
          
             Europe’s stress tests on banks will
be “very serious,”  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said after some analysts warned
about underestimating probable losses on Greek and Spanish
government bonds.  
 “These tests have been done and will be done on a very
professional basis,” Juncker said in an interview today in
Strasbourg, France. “There is no room for complacency.”  
 The tests on 91 of Europe’s banks are designed to assess
how the lenders will be able to absorb losses on loans and
government bonds, the  Committee of European Banking Supervisors 
said late yesterday. Lenders that account for 65 percent of the
EU banking industry will be tested, including 14 German banks,
27 Spanish savings banks, six Greek banks, five Italian banks,
four French banks and four British banks, CEBS said.  
 Regulators have told lenders the assessments may assume a
loss of about 17 percent on Greek government debt, 3 percent on
Spanish bonds and none on German debt, said two people briefed
on the talks who declined to be identified because the details
are private. Juncker declined to comment on these aspects; the
results are scheduled to be released on July 23.  
 “I don’t think it’s very wise to comment on these tests
before you have the results,” Juncker said, adding that the
exercise is being done “in a very serious way.”  
 Juncker said he would have a “short debate” on the stress
tests with euro-area finance ministers at their next meeting on
July 12. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
will have a meeting with banks about the matter on July 21,
according to Juncker.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Strasbourg, France, at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        