-- Suncor Bond Spreads Narrowing on Possible Rating Upgrade: Canada Credit
-- Sean B. Pasternak
-- 2010-07-08T04:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/suncor-bond-spreads-narrowing-on-possible-rating-upgrade-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Suncor Energy Inc.  bond spreads are
narrowing on speculation that Canada’s largest oil company may
receive credit-rating upgrades next year as it pays down debt.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Suncor’s 6.1
percent debt due in June 2018 instead of similar-maturity
government bonds narrowed by 68 basis points since February,
according to Bloomberg data. The Suncor bond, with $1.25 billion
outstanding, yields 4.39 percent, for a spread of about 150
basis points over government debt, according to Scotia Capital.  
 Suncor has been  selling  assets in regions including
Alberta, the Netherlands and Trinidad and Tobago to pay down
debt following last year’s C$25.9 billion ($24.7 billion)
purchase of rival Petro-Canada. The Calgary-based company had
net debt of C$13.2 billion at the end of March, according to
company filings.  
 “Going into this merger, the intent was to de-leverage,”
said  Matthew Kolodzie , a credit analyst at RBC Securities in
Toronto. “That’s kind of been baked into the ratings.”  
 Standard & Poor’s may boost Suncor’s rating one level to A-
by the end of 2011, bringing the rating back to where it was
before the Petro-Canada acquisition, according to analysts at
Scotia Capital.  
 “Bond investors will likely see some upside in ratings in
the (second half of 2011) as Suncor’s credit profile improves
from debt reduction,” Scotia Capital wrote in a July 2 note to
investors.  
 At a spread of 150 basis points, Suncor is already trading
at about the level of an A1 rated company, based on the Moody’s
Investors Service ratings, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Index. That’s four levels above Moody’s current
rating of Baa2 for Suncor.  
 Bond Returns  
 The 2018 bond has returned about 15 percent in the last
year, outperforming both the  Merrill Lynch Canadian Corporate
Index  and the Bloomberg/EFFAS Bond Index.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, Royal Bank of Canada plans to
sell $1 billion in bonds denominated in U.S. dollars due
December 2015, according to a banker involved in the sale.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. will manage
the sale with RBC Capital markets, the banker said. The notes
may pay about 90 basis points more than U.S. Treasuries. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Canada auctioned C$3 billion of notes maturing in two
years, drawing an average yield of 1.565 percent, the central
bank said.  
 Rate Forecast  
 Bank of Montreal reduced its forecast yesterday for how
fast Canada’s central bank will raise interest rates. The Bank
of Canada will increase its key rate to 1 percent at the end of
the year from today’s 0.5 percent, said economist  Michael Gregory . A June 3 prediction was for 1.25 percent.  
 Standard & Poor’s wrote in May that “a positive rating
action is possible” should Suncor reduce its debt to less than
two times its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization.  Michelle Dathorne , a credit analyst in Toronto at
the ratings company, declined to give a specific timeframe.  
 “The debt has to come down before there can be any
improvement on the rating,” Dathorne said in a telephone
interview. “We feel that they’re comfortably positioned at the
BBB+ rating over our forecast period, which is 24 months.”  
 Suncor agreed to sell natural gas properties in British
Columbia for about C$390 million in February. Last month it sold
assets in Alberta to Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. for C$285
million, and sold Dutch assets for $400 million to Dana
Petroleum Plc.  
 Sneh Seetal, a Suncor spokeswoman, declined to comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        