-- Swedish Gambling Sanctions May Be Illegal, European Union Court Says
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-07-08T10:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/swedish-gambling-sanctions-may-be-illegal-european-union-court-says.html

          
          
             Swedish rules punishing promoters of
foreign Internet gambling services may be illegal, the European
Union’s highest court said.  
 While Sweden is justified in imposing restrictions on the
promotion of games of chance offered abroad and unlicensed
gambling services at home, it can’t impose tougher sanctions for
the promotion of gambling organized outside Sweden, the  European
Court of Justice  in Luxembourg ruled today.  
 “If the persons carrying out the promotion of gambling
organized in Sweden without a license incur penalties which are
less strict than those imposed on the persons who advertise
gambling organized in other member states, then the Swedish
arrangements are discriminatory,” the court ruled, according to
an e-mailed statement.  
 Today’s cases were triggered by criminal penalties against
two newspaper editors who promoted online betting services
offered by  Ladbrokes Plc ,  Unibet Group Plc  and two other
companies in their publications’ sports pages. The editors were
sentenced each to pay fines of 50,000 Swedish krona ($6,600).  
 At least 25 cases over challenges to German, Austrian,
Italian and Swedish gambling restrictions are pending at the EU
court.  
 Anna Charlotta Johansson, a spokeswoman for the Swedish
government, declined to immediately comment.  
 Germany and Sweden are among countries which have been
threatened by the European Commission to loosen some of their
restrictions and some recently started to do so. Previous EU
court rulings said national gambling restrictions must meet
policy goals, such as fighting fraud and gambling addiction, and
can’t be discriminatory.  
 The cases are C-447/08, Otto Sjoeberg v Aklagaren; C-
448/08, Anders Gerdin v Aklagaren Gerdin.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        