-- Swiss Stocks Gain for Third Day; Credit Suisse, UBS Advance in Zurich
-- Alexis Xydias
-- 2010-07-08T08:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/swiss-stocks-gain-for-third-day-credit-suisse-ubs-advance-in-zurich.html

          
          
             Swiss stocks  rose for a third day,
led by Credit Suisse Group AG and UBS AG on optimism that
European banks will pass stress tests imposed by regulators.  
 Credit Suisse rose 3.3 percent, while UBS increased 2.3
percent.  Julius Baer Group Ltd.,  the 120-year-old Swiss private
bank, climbed 2.4 percent.  
 The  Swiss Market Index  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies climbed 1.2 percent to 6,170.88 as of 9:42 a.m.
in Zurich. The broader  Swiss Performance Index GUDXICFGH91N"></a>  
 The methodology for stress tests on 91 of the Europe’s
biggest banks emerged yesterday from people close to the matter,
lifting bank stocks as analysts said assumptions for possible
losses tied to Greek and Spanish government bonds were more
lenient than they should be.  
 Separately, Credit Suisse strategists today advised
investors to raise holdings of banks in Europe to “benchmark”
from “underweight” levels, citing improving credit markets and
saying that “sovereign credit risk is overstated.”  
 The SMI has now jumped for three days, tracking gains by
stocks worldwide on speculation a selloff last quarter is
unwarranted given that the global economy is still growing. The
International Monetary Fund yesterday raised its forecast for
global growth this year, reflecting a stronger-than-expected
first half.  
 Credit Suisse rose 3.3 percent to 44.32 Swiss francs. UBS
increased 2.3 percent to 15.17 francs. Julius Baer rose for a
firth day, gaining 2.4 percent to 32.94 francs.  
 Transocean Ltd., the Geneva-based company that leased the
Deepwater Horizon oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico to BP Plc, rose
2.4 percent to 53.8 francs. BP set a new deadline for capping
the leaking well, planning to curb the flow of crude oil by July
27, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing unidentified
company officials.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        