-- Government Pushes Its Largest Suppliers to Reduce Their Bills for Services
-- Hannah Roberts
-- 2010-07-08T17:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/u-k-government-pushes-largest-suppliers-to-cut-their-bills-for-services.html

          
          
             U.K. Cabinet Office Minister
 Francis Maude  met with the heads of the government’s 19 largest
private company suppliers today in a bid to get them to reduce
the cost they charge for services.  
 The Cabinet Office confirmed in a statement today the names
of the suppliers, including  Capita Group Plc , Serco Group Plc,
 G4S Plc ,  BT Group Plc ,  Cap Gemini SA  and  Vodafone Group Plc . The
Office of Government Commerce had previously refused to identify
them. Industry magazine Computer Weekly reported the company
names today.  
 “Given the really difficult economic climate we now face,
we have to do everything we can to deliver better value for
money for taxpayers,” Maude said in today’s statement. “I am
laying down the challenge to major government suppliers to ask
them what they can do to take costs out of contracts.”  
 David Cameron ’s coalition government has pledged to reduce
the U.K.’s budget deficit and safeguard the nation’s top credit
rating. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  announced an
initial 6 billion pounds ($9.1 billion) of reductions on May 24.  
 “A package of plans and actions aimed at the renegotiation
of public sector contracts is to be expected given the current
political and economic climate,” Cap Gemini said in an e-mailed
statement today. The company declined to disclose any
information regarding public-sector contracts it holds “until
any formal discussions with the government are completed.”  
 The full list of suppliers as given by the government is as
follows:  

 
1.   Hewlett Packard
2.   British Telecom
3.   Capgemini
4.   Fujitsu
5.   Capita
6.   IBM
7.   Telereal Trillium
8.   Atos Origin
9.   CSC
10.  Logica
11.  Steria
12.  Oracle
13.  Siemens IS
14.  C&W
15.  Microsoft
16.  Accenture
17.  Serco
18.  G4S
19.  Vodafone
 
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hannah Roberts  at 
 hroberts9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        