-- U.S. Crash Looms Without Roadmap Directions: Caroline Baum
-- Caroline Baum
-- 2010-07-08T01:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/u-s-crash-looms-without-roadmap-directions-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html

          
          
             The U.S. debate over more government
spending versus fiscal austerity is captivating the nation’s
capital, dominating the airwaves and providing the best excuse
in at least a millennium to recycle St. Augustine (“Lord, make
me chaste, but not yet”).  
 What it has failed to do, with rare exception, is produce
any viable alternatives. The choices are warmed-over Keynesian
pump-priming or “passively waiting for disaster,” as Harvard
University historian and business school professor  Niall Ferguson  put it on the July 4 edition of CNN’s “ Fareed Zakaria
GPS .”  
 There’s got to be a better way. And there is. Ferguson
advocates “radical fiscal reform” to address America’s
entitlement problem -- Medicare and Social Security will
eventually consume the entire federal budget -- and simplify the
tax code by introducing a simple flat tax and a lower corporate
rate.  
 “It’s pretty radical,” Ferguson told Zakaria. “It has
almost no congressional support. But it is an option that we
should be discussing much more seriously.”  
 At least one congressman is doing just that -- and learning
how lonely it can be crusading for real change.  Paul Ryan ,
Republican of Wisconsin and ranking member of the House Budget
Committee, introduced his “ Roadmap for America’s Future ,”
version 2.0, in January. (He proposed his first Roadmap in
2008.) President  Barack Obama  called it a “ serious proposal ”
when he dropped in on the House Republican retreat.  
 Solid Report Card  
 Compared with the current fiscal crash-and-burn trajectory,
the plan reduces  deficits  and  debt , putting the federal budget
on a sustainable path; results in stronger per-capita economic
growth; puts Medicare and Social Security on a sound footing;
and lowers health-care expenses while reducing the number of
uninsured.  
 And that’s not Congressman Ryan talking. That’s the
assessment of the non-partisan  Congressional Budget Office ,
which gave the Roadmap a test drive and found that it performed
well.  
 Ryan calls his Roadmap a prosperity plan, not an austerity
plan that slashes benefits to the sick and needy and imposes
growth-killing tax increases. Anyone 55 and older will remain in
the existing  Medicare and Social Security  programs. For those
under 55, benefits will be means-tested and health-adjusted: The
poor and sick will get more than the wealthy and healthy. Even
an individual’s initial Social Security benefits would be
“progressive,” with more generous wage-indexing retained for
low-income workers. The retirement age would increase gradually,
as it should with longer life expectancy.  
 Empowering Individuals  
 What’s more, individuals would have the option of investing
a portion of their payroll taxes in personal-retirement accounts
that they can pass along to their heirs.  
 Those qualifying for Medicare would be given a voucher to
purchase health insurance, letting market forces create
competition and lower costs.  
 The same goes for Ryan’s “patient-centered health-care
reform.” Increased  transparency  would let consumers of health
care get a better sense of what things cost and what they’re
getting for their money -- before they get sick. The Roadmap
provides a refundable tax credit and eliminates the tax
exemption for employer-based health care.  
 The best part of Ryan’s plan relates to  taxes . Taxpayers
would get to choose between filing their taxes the old-fashioned
way (devoting endless hours to complying with or gaming the tax
code, or paying someone else to do it for you); or they can file
their return on a post-card equivalent, paying one of two flat
rates with virtually no deductions or exemptions. I know which
one I’d choose.  
 The Roadmap would eliminate the alternative minimum tax and
replace the corporate tax with an 8.5 percent business
consumption tax, making the U.S. more competitive globally and
spurring faster growth.  
 Room of No-Shows  
 Ferguson said when he was invited to a dinner in Washington
for folks committed to fiscal reform, he wondered “how big a
hotel” it would take to accommodate all the interested parties.
Three congressmen showed up, he told Zakaria.  
 “I’m depressed how few people in Washington are prepared to
talk about this option,” he said. “It seems to me actually our
best hope.”  
 It is. So why is there so little inside-the-Beltway
enthusiasm outside of Ryan’s 12 co-sponsors in the House and a
handful of reform-minded individuals in the Senate? Where is the
courage to confront, and solve, this country’s real, intractable
fiscal problems? In its latest  budget outlook , the CBO warned
that federal debt could reach 185 percent of gross domestic
product by 2035.  
 Status Quo Ante  
 Instead of engaging in meaningful discussion of Ryan’s or
alternative Roadmaps, lawmakers are teeing up the same old
debate over more  government spending , the effect of which is
highly questionable (and that’s being generous); and draconian
spending cuts and tax increases, which are never fashionable in
an election year, nor a good prescription for a weakened
economy. (Come to think of it, there’s never a good time for the
political class to impose discipline.)  
 Our elected representatives continue to sidestep a real
fiscal fix, hoping U.S. Treasuries will be perceived as the
least-bad option by international investors for a while longer.  
 The other conclusion is even less palatable. Congress may
prefer the status quo, using a loop-holed tax code to reward
favored constituencies in exchange for campaign contributions
that ensure lifetime employment.  
 Can there be a better argument for radical fiscal reform?  
 (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Caroline Baum  in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        