-- U.S. Ready to Cooperate With Israel on Civilian Nuclear Use, Steinitz Says
-- Gwen Ackerman
-- 2010-07-08T11:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/u-s-ready-to-cooperate-with-israel-on-civilian-nuclear-use-steinitz-says.html

          
          
             The U.S. is willing to cooperate with
Israel on civilian nuclear technology, Finance Minister  Yuval Steinitz  said, calling it a major achievement of Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu ’s Washington visit.  
 “This is a breakthrough,” Steinitz said at a conference
in Tel Aviv. “It includes a clear recognition of Israel as
very, very responsible and reliable with regard to nuclear
technologies.”  
 Steinitz did not give further details of U.S. support,
which came six weeks after President  Barack Obama  backed a
United Nations resolution that called for a 2012 conference on a
nuclear-free Middle East and said Israel should sign the Nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty. Israel hasn’t confirmed or denied it
has nuclear weapons.  
 The Obama administration’s approval of the language used in
the May 28 UN declaration had created “a lot of concern in
Israel,” said  Gerald Steinberg , a political scientist at Bar
Ilan University outside Tel Aviv.  
 Agreement to hold the 2012 meeting enabled the U.S. to
address a demand of Arab nations as President  Barack Obama 
pressures Iran to halt its nuclear program. Arab states have
said Israel has a nuclear arsenal that must be part of the
discussion.  
 Steinitz also said that U.S. support for Israel’s proposal
to upgrade the current indirect peace talks with Palestinians to
direct negotiations was another achievement of Netanyahu’s
visit. The Israeli premier said in Washington that he’s willing
to negotiate the future of West Bank settlements “right away”
if Palestinians agree to meet in face-to-face talks.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        