-- Retail Sales Rise as Warm Weather, Bargains Spur Buying
-- Allison Abell Schwartz
-- 2010-07-08T20:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/u-s-june-retail-sales-advance-as-warm-weather-bargains-attract-shoppers.html

          
          
             U.S. retailers reported sales gains
in June as record-high temperatures on the East Coast pushed
more shoppers into air-conditioned malls.  
 Sales at stores open at least a year rose more than
analysts projected at  Nordstrom Inc. , J.C. Penney Co. and Macy’s
Inc., according to estimates compiled by Retail Metrics Inc.  Gap
Inc.  and TJX Cos. fell short of predictions.  
 “Department stores benefited toward the end of the month
from the excess heat across the country, particularly in the
northeast but also out west,” said  Ken Perkins , president of
Retail Metrics. “Results were clearly mixed, and there was
selective buying going on.”  
 July results may be similar, Perkins said, citing increased
clearance sales in the first half and more hot weather across
the U.S. While more people visited shopping centers, some of
that traffic failed to translate into purchases, leading more
than half of retailers to miss projections, Swampscott,
Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics said.  
 Seattle-based Nordstrom fell 7 cents to $33.69 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Macy’s , based in
Cincinnati, gained 53 cents to $18.44. Plano, Texas-based J.C.
Penney climbed $1.46, or 6.7 percent, to $23.24. Gap and TJX
each dropped more than 4 percent.  
 Confidence among U.S. consumers sank more than forecast in
June and employment fell for the first time this year,
reflecting a drop in federal census workers and a smaller-than-
forecast gain in the private sector, the Labor Department said
July 2. Sales of new homes plunged in May to a record low.  
 Consumer Concerns  
 “Economic growth and consumer spending are slowing at a
troubling time for U.S. retailers who are staring at a long
string of more difficult comparisons once they get by July’s
easy 4.7 percent drop” a year earlier, Perkins said.  
 Sales at Nordstrom, the U.S. department-store chain with
more than 100 locations, jumped 14.1 percent at stores open at
least a year, more than the 9.1 percent average estimate from
Retail Metrics. Sales at  J.C. Penney , the third-largest U.S.
department store, climbed 4.5 percent, compared with a 3.7
percent projection. Macy’s, the No. 2 department store, rose 6.5
percent, also topping estimates.  
 Retailers typically discount merchandise in June to clear
inventory and make room for fall merchandise. Those clearance
sales also helped spur purchases, Perkins said.  
 Memorial Day  
 A later Memorial Day also pushed more sales into June,
according to  Betty Chen , an analyst at Wedbush Securities in San
Francisco. Memorial Day fell on May 31 this year, compared with
May 25 a year ago. June’s sales include purchases starting from
May 30, according to the National Retail Federation’s retail
sales calendar.  
 Teen retailers  Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  and Zumiez Inc. also
posted higher sales than analysts estimated. Sales at
Abercrombie gained 9 percent compared to a 2.9 percent estimated
rise. Zumiez sales jumped 10.9 percent, more than the 8.1
percent projection.  
 June sales at 30 chains rose 3.1 percent after a 2.7
percent gain in May, the 10th consecutive increase in monthly
sales, Retail Metrics said today. Analysts estimated a 3.5
percent gain. Same-store sales are a key indicator of a
retailer’s growth because they exclude results from new and
closed locations.  
 Analysts pared June sales estimates throughout the month as
economic data suggested the U.S. consumer faces mounting
pressures, Perkins said. Analysts’ estimates called for a 3.8
percent gain at the start of June.  
 Discounters  
 Sales at discount chains including  Costco Wholesale Corp. ,
Target Corp. and BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc. trailed estimates.
Perkins said consumers may be gravitating more toward the dollar
stores for discounts.  
 Gap, operator of the eponymous clothing chain, said same-
store sales were little changed from last year, falling short of
the 3.7 percent estimated gain. Traffic was negative at all
three of Gap’s brands, the San Francisco-based retailer said
today on a conference call.  
 The monthly average gain in the first five months of the
retail year that began Jan. 31 was 3.8 percent, the
International Council of Shopping Centers trade group said. That
was smaller than the 4 percent the trade group projected
yesterday. It was still the largest gain since 2006. The ICSC
uses a sample of more than 30 chains in its results.  
 Sales in 2010 will grow 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent at the
more than 30 chains it tracks, the ICSC predicted in mid-May,
faster than its January projection of 3 percent to 3.5 percent.
Those sales dropped 1.6 percent last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Abell Schwartz  in New York at 
 aabell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Retail Sales Rise in June  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Sales at J.C. Penney climbed 4.5 percent in June, topping estimates. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Sales at J.C. Penney climbed 4.5 percent in June, topping estimates. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Joe Feldman, managing director at Telsey Advisory Group, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about the outlook for U.S. retail sales.
     Retailers reported sales gains in June as record-high temperatures on the East Coast pushed more shoppers into air-conditioned malls. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Michael McNamara, vice president of research and analysis at MasterCard Advisors SpendingPulse, discusses sales by U.S. retailers in June and the impact of stock market and dollar on the sale of luxury items.
     U.S. retailers reported sales gains in June as record high temperatures on the East Coast pushed more shoppers into air-conditioned malls. McNamara speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Craig Johnson, president of Customer Growth Partners LLC, speaks about the outlook for U.S. retail sales.
     U.S. retailers reported sales gains in June, led by department stores, as record high temperatures on the East Coast pushed more shoppers into air-conditioned malls. Johnson talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
