-- Appeals Court Rejects Bid to Delay U.S. Drilling Ban Order
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-07-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/u-s-appeals-court-denies-request-to-reinstate-deep-water-oil-drilling-ban.html

          
          
             The U.S. government’s request to
reinstate a deep-water oil-drilling moratorium while it
challenges a lower-court order rejecting the ban was denied by a
federal appeals panel.  
 The Obama administration sought to delay an order by U.S.
District Judge  Martin Feldman  that scrapped the six-month ban,
imposed May 27 after the explosion and sinking of the Deepwater
Horizon oil rig in April. The three-judge panel of the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit denied the stay after a
hearing yesterday in New Orleans.  
 The denial may lead to a quick return to drilling in the
Gulf of Mexico, said  Anthony Sabino , a law professor at St.
John’s University in New York who specializes in complex
litigation and oil-and-gas law.  
 “Drilling will begin, not necessarily immediately and not
necessarily 110 percent,” Sabino said. “You’d see some of the
braver souls go out there. They’d think, ‘We’ve got a green
light now.’”  
 The U.S. can ask the full Fifth Circuit to review its
request for a stay, Sabino said.  
 “That has a snowball’s chance in heck of being granted,”
he said. “Even getting a hearing is unlikely.”  
 Feldman’s June 22 ruling came in a lawsuit against U.S.
regulators, including Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar , by
oil-service companies claiming the suspension would cause them
irreparable economic harm. The U.S. appealed the ruling and
asked the Fifth Circuit to delay enforcement of Feldman’s order.  
 ‘Failed to Demonstrate’  
 “The secretary has failed to demonstrate a likelihood of
irreparable injury if the stay is not granted,” the appeals
court said yesterday in a 2-1 ruling. “He has made no showing
that there is any likelihood that drilling activities will be
resumed pending appeal.”  
 The U.S. appeal of Feldman’s order will be argued at a
hearing during the week of Aug. 30, the court said.  
 Laura Sweeney  of the Justice Department didn’t immediately 
respond to phone calls or e-mails seeking comment on yesterday’s 
ruling.  
 The U.S. is developing a new drilling-suspension plan,
Salazar said last month after Feldman rejected the six-month
moratorium. Any new order won’t be dependent on the appeals
court’s decision, Michael Gray, a Justice Department lawyer,
told the judges at yesterday’s hearing.  
 ‘Economic Catastrophe’  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and more than a dozen other
offshore service and supply companies sued U.S. regulators last
month seeking to lift the moratorium.  
 They were joined by Louisiana’s Governor  Bobby Jindal  and
Attorney General  Buddy Caldwell , who said the drilling
suspension is turning an “environmental disaster into an
economic catastrophe.”  
 Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, the economic recession and the
Deepwater Horizon have created a “trifecta of economic
catastrophe that has left Louisiana hanging on by a thread,”
Henry Dart, counsel for Jindal, told the judges yesterday. “The
drilling moratorium would be the coup de grace.”  
 Feldman rejected the ban as too broad. The U.S. said the
six-month ban’s potential economic effect was outweighed by the
risk of another spill.  
 “You haven’t looked at the individual case at all,”
Circuit Judge  Jerry Smith  told the U.S. at yesterday’s hearing.
“The secretary just issued a blanket moratorium.”  
 ‘Taxed to the Max’  
 “The individual case is we have an oil spill we haven’t
contained,” replied Gray, the Justice Department attorney.
“Our resources are taxed to the max. It makes perfect sense.”  
 The appeals panel unanimously granted the U.S. the right to
seek emergency attention if oil rigs go back to work while the
appeal is pending. Circuit Judge  James Dennis , who sided with
the government in supporting a stay, said Salazar has the
authority to halt deep-water drilling.  
 “The law says he’s entitled to a lot of deference and he’s
vested with the authority to make this decision,” Dennis said
during yesterday’s hearing.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The appeal case is 10-30585, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  
 For Related News and Information:
To see the ruling: NXTW NSN L4FHWE0YHQ0X &lt;GO&gt;
Top legal stories: TLAW &lt;GO&gt;
Bloomberg legal resources: BLAW &lt;GO&gt;
Justice Department news: NI JUS BN &lt;GO&gt;
News on oil markets: NI OILMARKET &lt;GO&gt;
Top energy stories: ETOP &lt;GO&gt;
Top oil stories: OTOP &lt;GO&gt;
News on oil inventories: TNI OIL INV &lt;GO&gt;
BP litigation: BP/ LN &lt;Equity&gt; LITI &lt;GO&gt;  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  


        