-- U.S. Banks Recruit Investors to Kill FASB Fair-Value Proposal
-- Ian Katz
-- 2010-07-08T15:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/u-s-banks-recruit-investors-as-lobbyists-to-kill-fasb-fair-value-proposal.html

          
          
             Banking lobbyists have launched an e-
mail and Web campaign to mobilize investors against a proposed
expansion of fair-value accounting rules that may force banks
such as Citigroup Inc. and Wells Fargo & Co. to write down
billions of dollars of assets.  
 The American Bankers Association  opposes the Financial
Accounting Standards Board’s plan to apply fair-value rules to
all financial instruments, including loans, rather than just to
securities. The group says the rule could make strong banks
appear undercapitalized.  
 The association’s website, noting that FASB’s stated
mission is to serve investors, provides a sample letter for
people writing to the board and suggests they focus on why the
proposal isn’t “useful for investors.”  
 “They are trying to cut the legs out from FASB,” said
 Jack Ciesielski , editor of the Analyst’s Accounting Observer, an
industry newsletter. “If you can get enough investors to say,
‘we like the status quo,’ then you’ve kind of removed FASB’s
reasons for doing this.”  
 Fair-value, also known as mark-to-market accounting, forces
companies to adjust the value of most securities they hold to
market prices each quarter. It became one of the biggest flash
points of the financial crisis when banks barraged lawmakers and
the Securities and Exchange Commission with complaints that the
rule exacerbated their problems because they had to record
losses on mortgage bonds they had no intention of selling.  
 FASB in April 2009 relaxed that requirement after being
pressured by lawmakers on a House Financial Services
subcommittee. At the time, FASB Chairman  Robert Herz  said
Congress stepped in because of complaints from banks and their
trade groups.  
 More Timely  
 Herz said the accounting board’s May 27 proposal is
intended to give investors more timely information about the
health of financial firms by requiring companies to recognize
credit losses sooner. FASB will accept comments on the proposal
from investors, accounting firms and banks until Sept. 30, and
then hold public discussions on the proposal. If approved, FASB
projects it will take effect in 2013.  
 The change raises the stakes for the 26 biggest U.S. banks,
which currently value loans at $94.8 billion more than market
prices, Barclays Capital analyst  Jason Goldberg  said.  
 “This is the biggest proposed change to bank accounting in
decades,” Goldberg said an interview.  
 New York-based Citigroup estimated its loans were worth
$658.3 billion at the end of the first quarter, 2 percent less
than the $670.4 billion the bank carried the assets at on its
books, according to a May 7 SEC filing.  
 Wells Fargo  
 San Francisco-based Wells Fargo said the fair value of its
loans was $721.1 billion, or 3 percent less than the carrying
value. Regions Financial Corp., based in Birmingham, Alabama,
estimated loans were worth $70.2 billion, 15 percent less than
the value reported on its balance sheet.  
 “This is an ill-conceived plan,” Regions spokesman  Tim Deighton  said. “Accounting is based on the core principles of
relevancy and reliability, so the highly subjective and
inconsistent nature of fair-value makes it ill-suited to such an
important application.”  
 Spokespeople for Citigroup and Wells Fargo declined to
comment.  
 Under current rules, financial companies carry loans at
amortized cost. Banks must disclose the fair value of loans in
the footnotes of financial statements they file with the SEC
each quarter, but those prices don’t affect the bottom line.  
 Fluctuations  
 Norwalk, Connecticut-based FASB’s proposal requires banks
to report the fair-value of loans on their balance sheets and
run credit losses through comprehensive income. While net income
won’t be affected, fluctuations in the values of loans would
appear on the income statement for the first time.  
 The ABA expressed concern that bank regulators will deem
firms undercapitalized based on the fair-value assessments.  
 The banking association, which says most of the banks it
represents have less than $165 million in assets, is urging
members to recruit their investors. The Washington-based
lobbying group is also making its staff available to help write
letters opposing the fair-value proposal.  
 The association’s Web page, titled “Guidance for Investors
Regarding FASB’s Mark-to-Market Proposal,” includes a sample
letter to the board “for educational purposes only.” The group
urges investors to “write your own letter -- the FASB does not
appreciate ‘form’ letters, and often discounts them in their
analyses.” Those who comment should “let FASB know that you
are an investor,” the ABA says.  
 15,000 E-mails  
 A  link  to the web page was included in an e-mail the ABA
sent to at least 15,000 people on June 17, said  Donna Fisher ,
the group’s senior vice president for tax, accounting and
financial management. In trying to build support, the ABA has
reached out to stock analysts to encourage them to contact
institutional investors, she said.  
 “Our outreach is at all levels,” Fisher said. “We’ve
also been contacting CFOs to give us lists of investors that we
can contact, and we’ve worked down those lists.”  
 FASB spokesman  Neal McGarity  declined to comment on the
campaign.  
 The effort shows the ABA has refined its approach after
years of battling FASB, said  Richard Dietrich , an accounting
professor at Ohio State University in Columbus.  
 “Write your own letter means, ‘you write the sentences,
but here’s the essence of what we want you to say,’” he said.  
 Opposition letters have arrived from board members at
community banks in Ohio, New Hampshire, Oregon and California
who also note they are bank investors.  
 Daniel Boyle, chief financial officer of the Community Bank
in Zanesville, Ohio, described himself as an investor and banker
in a June 22 e-mail to FASB.  
 “History has proven that these rules simply do not work,”
Boyle wrote. “They artificially spurred the bubble, then
artificially worsened the downturn.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        