-- Mukherjee to Head Panel to Boost Energy Security as India, China Compete
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-07-08T09:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/mukherjee-to-lead-india-energy-security-panel-amid-asset-race-with-china.html

          
          
             India  formed an energy-security group
led by Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  as the nation competes
with China for resources to fuel the fastest-growing major
economies in Asia.  
 The group of ministers is scheduled to meet for the first
time today, Power Secretary  Uma Shankar  said by telephone from
New Delhi today. “The panel will discuss the bigger, broader
issue of energy security for India,” Shankar, the top
bureaucrat in the ministry, said, declining to give details.  
 The panel meets as the government considers using part of
India’s $277 billion of foreign-exchange  reserves  to create a
sovereign fund to help state-run energy companies including  Oil
& Natural Gas Corp.  and Coal India Ltd. bid for energy assets.
China, which has $2.4 trillion of  reserves  and a $300 billion
sovereign fund, spent four times more than Indian companies on
overseas assets in the past year.  
 “The government is being proactive and that is very
important considering the preparedness China is showing in
securing assets,” said Sujan Hajra, chief economist at Anand
Rathi Financial Services Ltd. in Mumbai. “If you buy assets
then it is better and you are taking a long-term call on
prices.”  
 The group includes Oil Minister  Murli Deora , Power Minister
 Sushil Kumar Shinde  and Foreign Minister S.M. Krishna, an oil
ministry official said, asking not to be identified because he
isn’t allowed to speak to the media. All energy ministers are on
the panel, he said, without elaborating.  
 ONGC, Reliance  
 Deora didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone. Shinde and
Krishna were not immediately available to comment by telephone
from their offices. Sriprakash Jaiswal is the country’s coal
minister and  Farooq Abdullah  is the renewable energy minister.  
 Indian and Chinese companies are scouring the world for
access to resources as demand rises in the world’s two most
populous nations.  
 China spent at least $21 billion on overseas resources in
the past year compared with India’s $5.18 billion, including
$2.18 billion by ONGC, the nation’s largest explorer, and other
state-run companies for a field in Venezuela and  Reliance
Industries Ltd. ’s purchases of shale-gas assets in the U.S.  
 State-owned  Coal India , the world’s largest producer of the
fuel, may use the proposed sovereign fund to buy mines overseas,
Alok Perti, additional secretary to the coal ministry, said in
an interview in New Delhi yesterday.  
 The planned sovereign fund is meant for all energy
companies, Perti said, adding that the finance ministry hasn’t
decided on its size.  
 India’s energy use may more than double by 2030 to the
equivalent of 833 million metric tons of oil from 2007, while
China’s demand may rise 87 percent to 2.4 billion tons, the
Paris-based International Energy Agency said.  
 The oil ministry formally asked the finance ministry to set
up a fund using a part of India’s foreign-exchange reserves, a
government official said in March.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Frederic Neumann, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about India's competition with  China for natural resources.
     Indian Oil Minister Murli Deora traveled to Nigeria, Angola, Uganda, Sudan, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela this year, leading a record number of delegations to gain oil for the world’s third-fastest-growing major economy. The flurry of visits is part of a new drive to find oil for India’s 1.2 billion people after losing out to China in at least $12.5 billion of contracts in the past year. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
