-- UniCredit Adds Bankers From New York to Istanbul to Boost M&A Business
-- Elisa Martinuzzi
-- 2010-07-08T07:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/unicredit-hires-bankers-from-new-york-to-russia-and-istanbul-to-boost-m-a.html

          
          
             UniCredit SpA , Italy’s largest
lender, plans to add investment bankers in the U.S. and hire
merger advisers in Turkey and Russia as it seeks to narrow the
gap to bigger rivals Morgan Stanley and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.   
 “We want to compete with bulge-bracket firms in the medium
term, particularly in the merger and acquisition business,”
 Vittorio Ogliengo , head of UniCredit’s financing and advisory
business, said in an interview in his Milan office. “We’re
number one in central and eastern Europe, and we’d like to grow
in a similar way in our other home markets.”  
 The Italian bank last year ranked 20th among merger
advisers in its four core markets, behind Morgan Stanley,
Goldman Sachs, the top two banks, and rivals including Barclays
Plc and Lazard Ltd., according to Bloomberg data. In contrast,
the lender was the top loan arranger in Italy, Germany, Poland
and Austria last year, the data show.  
 After merging its corporate and investment banking units
and cutting jobs last year, UniCredit is seeking to win a larger
share of business among bigger clients in Italy, Germany,
Austria and Poland, Ogliengo said.  
 The financing and advisory division, which has outstanding
 loans of 270 billion euros  ($341 billion), is moving staff to
New York and Asia to capture international deals, while hiring
bankers in Russia and Turkey where it has commercial banking
operations. In Shanghai, where UniCredit has run a corporate
banking business and a branch since 1996, it’s adding project
and commodity finance bankers.  
 Turkey, Russia Hiring  
 “UniCredit wants to become the preferred option for
selected U.S. and Asian customers that want to invest in Europe
and vice versa,” said Ogliengo, 52.  
 The lender plans to hire as many as 10 bankers for mergers
and project finance in Russia and six bankers for Turkey,
doubling the current staff. The appointments will span from vice
president to managing director level, according to Ogliengo.  
 “To expand M&A business is a good idea, but the timing
might not be right,” Enrico Camerinelli, a banking analyst at
Celent, said by phone. “We’re not out of the financial crisis
completely and UniCredit still has to earn the trust of the
market to compete with the biggest players.”  
 Sales  at the financing and advisory division, one of four
divisions that make up UniCredit’s corporate and investment
banking unit, will increase to more than 5 billion euros in
2010, Ogliengo said. The 4.7 billion-euro revenue posted last
year accounted for 46 percent of the corporate and investment
banking total.  
 ‘Good Time to Upgrade’  
 For Ogliengo, who ran Fiat SpA’s and Barilla Group’s
finance departments in the 1980s and 90s, the time to invest in
bolstering merger advice couldn’t be better.  
 “Right now we’re able to attract high-profile bankers who
are beginning to appreciate a portfolio like ours, with a high
caliber of clients and a far-reaching geographic presence,” he
said. “This is a very good time to upgrade.”  
 UniCredit tried to boost investment banking in 2007 by
focusing on leveraged finance. The lender, which helped finance
Valentino Fashion Group SpA and Alliance Boots Plc, was stymied
by the global financial crisis that trimmed M&A deals worldwide.
As Europe is emerging from the worst recession since World War
II, the bank expects a rebound in M&A transactions in the second
half of the year.  
 “New deals are increasing, in particular in Germany and
CEE,” Ogliengo said. “A combination of corporate and
investment banking is the successful model in the long run.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Paul Venables, group finance director of Hays Plc, talks about a rebound in recruitment in Europe and Asia.
     Venables speaks with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's 
"Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
