-- Turkey Bonds, Stocks Rises as Court Ruling Eases Early Election Concern
-- Mark Bentley
-- 2010-07-08T09:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/turkey-bonds-stocks-rises-as-court-ruling-eases-early-election-concern.html

          
          
             Turkish  bond s rallied, pushing yields
toward an eight-month low, and stocks rose after a court’s
ruling on constitutional changes averted a confrontation with
the prime minister, easing concern he would call for an early
election.  
 The main  ISE National 100  share index climbed 454.33, or
0.8 percent, to 57,252.88 at 12:08 p.m. in Istanbul. Bonds
gained, with yields on two-year lira debt declining as much as
11 basis points to 8.34 percent. The lira weakened 0.1 percent
to 1.5538 per dollar.  
 Turkey’s top court last night overturned some changes
designed to curb judicial and prosecutorial power. The reforms
were passed by parliament in May. Elections won’t be moved up
from July 2011 in response to the ruling, said Suat Kilic,
deputy chief of the parliamentary group of the ruling Justice
and Development Party, or AKP. Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who pushed for the changes, called for early elections
in 2007 after the court rejected his candidate for president.  
 “This is as market friendly as a cancellation decision
could get,”  Inan Demir , chief economist at  Finansbank AS  in
Istanbul, said in an e-mailed report to clients today. “The
surgical nature of the court’s decision and AKP’s so-far
measured response will be received positively by the markets, as
risk of an early election seems to recede.”  
 Full Term  
 Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  has repeatedly said his
government will serve a full term. Erdogan’s Justice and
Development party has roots in a banned Islamic movement and
opposition groups view the judiciary and military as a bulwark
protecting the secular system against the encroachment of
religion into politics.  
 The court let articles stand that make it easier for civil
courts to try military officers, widen labor union rights for
government workers and to protect consumers and personal data.  
 “Bottom line is that the Court’s decision eliminated the
risk of an early election, hence it’s a very pro-market move,”
Istanbul-based Tera Brokers said in an e-mailed report.
“Consequently one more uncertainty for the markets has
vanished.”  
 Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS , a bank part-owned by General
Electric Co., led gains in stocks, rising 1.4 percent to 7.35
liras.  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS , the country’s biggest
mobile phone operator, climbed 0.6 percent to 8.20 liras.  
 Erdogan’s supporters say the constitutional amendments are
necessary to bring Turkey into harmony with European Union
standards, enhance democracy and encourage investment in the
$660 billion economy, whose expansion under Erdogan has lured
companies including Citigroup Inc. and Vodafone Group Plc.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Bentley  at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        