-- Luxury Vacation-Home Sales Fade With Pace of Economic Recovery
-- Kathleen M. Howley
-- 2010-07-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/luxury-vacation-home-sales-in-u-s-fade-along-with-strength-of-recovery.html

          
          
             Iain Heydon traveled to Colorado’s
Rocky Mountains three times during the past year looking for a
vacation home in  Grand Lake , where waterfront properties  list 
for as much as $3.95 million. After seeing more than a dozen
houses, he has yet to make an offer.  
 “I’m watching to see what happens to the U.S. economy,”
said Heydon, 46, who lives near Basel, Switzerland. “The market
for these homes may not have reached its bottom.”  
 Demand for U.S. luxury vacation properties may be fading
along with prospects for faster economic growth, after an early
2010 rebound. The government last week reported slower growth in
private-sector jobs and manufacturing and a decline in factory
orders. While rates on jumbo mortgages used for many expensive
homes have dropped, it’s harder to qualify.  
 “There is a lot of concern about a double-dip recession
that’s keeping people on the sidelines, especially at the high
end,” said  Mark Goldman , a mortgage broker with Cobalt
Financial Corp. in San Diego.  
 The housing market deteriorated in May, with  new-home sales 
tumbling to a record-low annual pace of 300,000, the Commerce
Department said last month.  Purchases of previously owned homes 
unexpectedly fell 2.2 percent, even with buyers eligible for a
federal tax credit, according to the National Association of
Realtors. To qualify for the benefit, buyers needed a contract
signed by April 30 and have until the end of September to
complete the deal.  
 Demand for expensive vacation homes is especially sensitive
to economic weakness because it isn’t driven by a need for
shelter, said  Dennis Capozza , a housing economist who teaches at
the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor.  
 GDP Deceleration  
 U.S. gross domestic product will expand at a 3 percent
annual rate in the third quarter and 2.8 percent in the final
three months of the year, according to the median forecast of 66
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That’s down from 5.6 percent
in the fourth quarter of 2009.  
 A measure of global business sentiment last week showed
that 18.7 percent of executives had a positive outlook for the
economy, down from 25.7 percent the previous week, according to
 Mark Zandi , chief economist of Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West
Chester, Pennsylvania. Consumer bankruptcies rose 14 percent in
the first six months of the year from the same period in 2009,
the American Bankruptcy Institute reported July 2.  
 There’s no official sales gauge for vacation homes, or a
set price range that defines a luxury property. Such purchases
often are financed with jumbo mortgages, which are used when
borrowing exceeds the $417,000 to $729,750  caps  set by the
government for loans bought by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the
nation’s largest mortgage-finance companies.  
 First-Quarter Pickup  
 Demand for homes in expensive resort towns surged in the
first three months of 2010, according to local tallies. Sales in
the Hamptons on New York’s Long Island more than doubled in the
first quarter from a year earlier, reported Miller Samuel Inc.,
a New York property appraiser. In Aspen, Colorado, transactions
rose 43 percent, said  Tim Estin , a broker with Mason Morse Real
Estate.  
 In Key West, Florida, there was a 26 percent increase in
first-quarter sales from last year, according to Zillow.com, a
real estate data firm in Seattle. On Cape Cod and the islands of
Nantucket and Martha’s Vineyard in Massachusetts, sales  gained
58 percent , said  Paul Grover , a partner in Robert Paul
Properties, a local brokerage.  
 Some of that first-quarter surge was “pent-up demand”
from wealthy buyers who had put off purchases during the
financial meltdown that accelerated in 2008, said Grover, a
broker in Osterville, Massachusetts. Last year, demand for homes
priced more than $1 million was the lowest in his 28 years of
selling seaside properties, he said.  
 Confidence Wanes  
 “The financial-services people we worked with at the
beginning of the year were feeling a lot more confident in their
futures and in their bonuses than they were in 2009,” Grover
said. “Now, there is concern about the financial markets and
the world economy.”  
 While rates on jumbo mortgages are near five-year lows,
lenders are maintaining the stringent qualifications they
adopted two years ago after defaults sparked a global recession,
said  Greg McBride , a senior analyst at financial-information
publisher Bankrate Inc. of North Palm Beach, Florida.  
 “The jumbo rates have improved, but the needle really
hasn’t moved in terms of qualification standards,” said
McBride.  
 The average U.S. rate for a 30-year fixed  jumbo mortgage 
fell to 5.47 percent on June 29, the lowest since 2005, when the
real estate boom was near its peak, McBride said. That compared
with the 4.62 percent rate on  conventional mortgages  on the same
day, McBride said.  
 ‘More Skin’ Required  
 For jumbo mortgages on second homes, lenders may require
down payments of as much as 40 percent, instead of the 20
percent needed on primary residences and the 10 percent usually
required for conforming mortgages, said  Keith Gumbinger , a vice
president at HSH Associates, a mortgage-data company in Pompton
Plains, New Jersey.  
 “Vacation homes, especially luxury ones, have always
carried more risk for lenders because if you have a catastrophic
event like a job loss, the mortgage on your second home is going
to be the first bill you don’t pay,” Gumbinger said. “To get
financing, you have to put more skin in the game.”  
 Even if wealthy buyers can make the larger down payments,
they will hesitate to do so when concerned about income, said
 David Crowe , chief economist for the National Association of
Home Builders in Washington.  
 “It’s discretionary spending,” Crowe said. “It’s
something people are going to do when they feel good about their
situation.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kathleen M. Howley  in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Luxury vacation-home sales fade with economic recovery  
                       
                         
                           Bryan Haraway/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A home in Lake Las Vegas, just outside of Las Vegas. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A home in Lake Las Vegas, just outside of Las Vegas.  Photographer: Bryan Haraway/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Demand for U.S. luxury vacation properties may be fading along with prospects for faster economic growth, after an early 2010 rebound. Bloomberg's Monica Bertran reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
