-- Venezuelan Inflation Slows in June as Government Keeps Food Price Controls
-- Corina Rodriguez Pons
-- 2010-07-08T18:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/venezuelan-inflation-slows-in-june-as-government-keeps-food-price-controls.html

          
          
             Venezuelan  consumer prices  rose less
than analysts forecast in June as the government maintained
price controls on basic foods while shortages on a range of
goods were averted.  
 Consumer prices rose 2 percent last month, down from May’s
2.2 percent increase, according to the central bank’s benchmark
 Caracas price index  released today. The result was lower than
the 2.5 percent median  forecast  of six economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Annual inflation accelerated to 31.3 percent from
31.2 percent a month earlier, the bank said.  
 Venezuela, the largest oil producer in South America and a
net food importer, kept price controls on regulated goods after
easing them earlier in the year because of shortages of goods
including sugar and beef. Shortages increased after President
 Hugo Chavez  devalued the currency as much as 50 percent Jan. 8.  
 “The government avoided price increases in regulated goods
this month, which explains the slowdown in communications,
rents, education and food prices,” said  Boris Segura , a Latin
America economist at RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford,
Connecticut. “This is the lowest monthly inflation the
government will reach this year.”  
 The government in March raised the price caps on rice,
sugar and chicken by as much as 35 percent and the prices of
milk and cheese by as much as 30 percent on April 5.  
 Bolivar, Prices  
 Chavez this year has devalued the currency and created a
multi-tiered exchange system under which importers pay 2.6
bolivars per dollar for essential items and 4.3 per dollar for
products deemed non-essential.  
 The free-floating bolivar plunged 27 percent to a record
low 8.2 on May 11 before Chavez dismantled the unregulated
currency market, operated mostly by brokerages, on May 18. He
blamed currency speculators for the bolivar’s slide and for
April’s inflation surge.  
 The new currency market allows Venezuelans to buy dollar-
denominated securities within a government-set price band in
order to obtain dollars abroad by then selling the securities.  
 Chavez said that the private sector was responsible for
raising prices faster than the minimum wage, and that hoarding
by businesses to skirt price controls caused food shortages.  
 The bank’s shortage indicator, which measures the
percentage of goods missing from shelves in the metropolitan
area of Caracas, fell from 14.5 percent in May to a seven-month
low of 12.3 percent in June, the bank said today.  
 Alcoholic beverages and household goods led the price gains
in the national index, surging 2.8 percent and 2.6 percent,
respectively, the bank said. Food prices rose 2 percent.  
 Venezuela, which has the highest inflation rate of 78
economies tracked by Bloomberg, may post 40 percent inflation in
2010, according to RBS Securities.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jose Orozco  in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        