-- Wells Fargo Cuts 3,800 Jobs, Closes Consumer-Finance Business
-- Dakin Campbell
-- 2010-07-08T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/wells-fargo-to-eliminate-3-800-jobs-with-closing-of-consumer-finance-unit.html

          
          
             Wells Fargo & Co. , the fourth-largest
U.S. bank by assets, plans to eliminate 3,800 jobs, or about 1.4
percent of its total workforce, and close its consumer-finance
branch network.  
 The lender will take a charge of $185 million, with $137
million, or 2 cents a share, in the second quarter, according to
a statement yesterday from the San Francisco-based company.
Wells Fargo said it will close 638 independent consumer-finance
branches and stop making nonprime home loans.  
 “We have a store network, and that is closing,”  David Kvamme , president of the unit, said in a phone interview
yesterday. Also, “some of the businesses have been branded
Wells Fargo Financial and we will rebrand them over time.”  
 Wells Fargo, which purchased Wachovia Corp. for $12.7
billion in 2008, is streamlining operations and trimming
redundancies as it merges the two franchises. Credit-card, auto
and home loans will continue to be made through 6,600 retail
branches and 2,200 mortgage offices, the most of any U.S. bank,
the company said.  
 “You will probably make more in efficiencies than you will
give up in restructuring charges,”  Christopher Mutascio , an
analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a phone interview.
“It’s been a value-added franchise but it makes perfect sense
when it comes to the branch rationalization.”  
 Other financial firms have exited or scaled back consumer
lending. Citigroup Inc. announced last month that it will close
376 branches and cut as many as 720 jobs at its CitiFinancial
consumer-lending businesses in the U.S. and Canada. American
International Group Inc. may sell consumer unit American General
Finance Corp., the Financial Times said in May.  
 Consumer Loans  
 Wells Fargo Financial is the division that sold consumer
loans and mortgages to borrowers with blemished credit. Wells
Fargo paid $6.8 million in April 2007 to settle a class-action
suit that accused the unit of obscuring fees and penalties on
subprime mortgages between 1999 and 2005.  
 The bank will stop making nonprime home loans because the
business had “become so small that we decided we would no
longer devote resources to maintaining” it, Kvamme said.  
 Subprime loans played a role in the worldwide credit crisis
when U.S. home prices plummeted, causing delinquencies and
foreclosures and slashing the value of securities tied to the
mortgages. Subprime loans are made to borrowers with bad or
limited credit histories or high debt burdens, making them more
prone to default than conventional mortgages.  
 Less than 2 percent of Wells Fargo’s real estate loans were
originated in the consumer-finance unit in the first quarter and
of those, less than 3 percent were nonprime, he said.  
 Auto Lending, Credit Cards  
 Wells Fargo “will stay focused on serving the nonprime
segment with direct-to-consumer auto lending and credit-card
lending,” Kvamme said. The unit had $7.3 billion of outstanding
credit card loans at the end of the fourth quarter, according to
a company presentation.  
 Of the job cuts announced yesterday, about 2,500 are branch
employees while 1,000 are support staff based in Iowa, where the
consumer-finance and home-lending businesses are located, Kvamme
said. The bank will look to move employees into other roles,
something it’s already been able to do for some, he said.  
 Wells Fargo Financial employed about 14,000 workers, out of
the 267,400 Wells Fargo employees at the end of the first
quarter, according to company statements.  
 The second-quarter charge of $137 million will go to
severance expenses, while the remaining $48 million will be used
to close branches, Kvamme said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
