-- Wheat Rises, Extending Rally, as Dry Weather May Hurt EU, Russian Crops
-- Tony C. Dreibus
-- 2010-07-08T19:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/wheat-rises-extending-rally-as-dry-weather-may-hurt-eu-russian-crops.html

          
          
             Wheat rose, extending a rally to the
highest price in almost six months, as dry weather in countries
near the Black Sea and in Western Europe may curb output.  
 A drought is intensifying in Russia’s Volga District and in
Kazakhstan, according to Accuweather.com. Dry weather in France,
the European Union’s biggest wheat grower, also may curb
production. Some hedge-fund managers and other speculative
investors may have bought back bets that prices would fall and
liquidated positions.  
 “We’re starting to see more and more concern about the
weather in Russia and Europe,” said Frank Cholly, a senior
market strategist at Chicago brokerage Lind-Waldock. “Those
factors are going to let the market continue higher. We still
have a lot of shorts to cover.”  
 Wheat futures for September delivery climbed 18 cents, or
3.4 percent, to $5.485 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade.
The price earlier touched $5.495 a bushel, the highest level
since Jan. 12.  
 Wheat has jumped 20 percent since June 29, the last time
the most-active contract declined. It also has gained for six
straight sessions, the longest winning streak since mid-
November.  
 Milling wheat for November delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris rose for an eighth day, the longest string of advances
since the contract started trading in March 2009, and is at the
highest level since June 2009.  
 Short Covering  
 Russia is the world’s second-biggest exporter of wheat,
behind the U.S., according to the International Grains Council.
Canada is the third-largest, followed by Australia, Ukraine and
Kazakhstan, IGC data show.  
 Speculative short positions , or bets that prices would
fall, outnumbered long positions by 47,119 contracts on the CBOT
as of June 29, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said
last week. As the price rose, some investors who were short may
have liquidated positions to avoid losses.  
 The grain harvest in Ukraine has been slowed by rains,
UkrAgroConsult said yesterday. The precipitation also has
lowered gluten levels in wheat, making the grain better suited
as animal feed than for milling into flour, said  Liza Malyshko ,
an analyst at the Kiev-based researcher.  
 Crops in Canada were hit by rain, hail and tornadoes last
week, the Canadian Wheat Board said. Grain in Saskatchewan, the
biggest grain-growing province, is showing signs of “distress”
because of excessive rainfall the past three months, the
provincial ministry of agriculture said.  
 Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        