-- Wheat Ends Longest Rally Since November on Higher U.S. Winter Crop Yields
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-07-08T06:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/wheat-ends-longest-rally-since-november-on-higher-u-s-winter-crop-yields.html

          
          
             Wheat declined in Chicago, ending the
longest rally in almost eight months on speculation that
increased output in the U.S., the largest shipper, may more than
offset production losses in other exporting countries.  
 September-delivery wheat lost 0.9 percent to $5.2575 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 2:02 p.m. Manila time,
ending five days of gains. That was the longest winning streak
for the most-active contract since November.  
 U.S. wheat output may be 2.1643 billion bushels this year,
higher than the 2.067 billion forecast by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture last month, as rains boosted yields, according to
the average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 “Over time, I do expect the market to correct lower on the
back of higher global supplies,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity
strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia, said by phone from
Sydney today. Still, the decline will be “contingent on what
the USDA actually has to say come Friday,” Mathews said.  
 The USDA is scheduled to release its latest estimate on
agricultural global supply and demand, including wheat, corn and
soybeans, tomorrow in Washington.  
 Wheat in Russia’s Volga District, which produces a quarter
of the country’s output, is suffering from drought after
temperatures exceeded 95 degrees Fahrenheit (35 degrees Celsius),
Martell Crop Projections said in a July 6 report on its website.  
 Russia Exports  
 Russia, the third-largest wheat exporter in the 2009-2010
season, is vying with Canada to rank as the second-largest
shipper in the 2010-2011 season, according to data from the USDA.  
 Yields of wheat ripening in daytime temperatures of 35
degrees Celsius were 78 percent lower than grain grown in 20
degrees, according to research by Iowa State University and
Kansas State University.  
 Ukraine will probably reap less than 45 million metric tons
of grains this year, after rains in western and southern parts
of the country damaged crops, mostly barley,  Liza Malyshko , an
analyst at UkrAgroConsult, said yesterday, lowering an earlier
forecast of 45.15 million tons.  
 Weather-related losses probably will come to between
300,000 and 400,000 tons after rains caused weeds to spread and
battered plants, Malyshko said.  
 Ukraine was the  fifth-largest  wheat shipper in the 2009-
2010 season, according to the USDA.  
 Black Sea  
 “Downgrades to Black Sea and western Europe wheat crops
and also wet weather in the U.S. have aided the market mentality
over the past couple of weeks,” Commonwealth Bank’s Mathews
said. That may continue to support the market until the USDA
releases its next estimate on global output, he said.  
 Corn stockpiles in the U.S., the world’s largest grower and
exporter, may fall to 1.2922 billion bushels next year, the
smallest since 2004, according to the average estimate of 23
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. That compares with a 1.573
billion bushel forecast by the USDA last month.  
 December-delivery corn fell 0.2 percent to $3.885 a bushel,
while soybeans for November lost 0.3 percent to $9.30 a bushel.  
 Inventories of soybeans in the U.S., the largest producer
and exporter, may be 171.6 million bushels before this year’s
harvest, smaller than the 185 million bushels forecast by the
nation’s Department of Agriculture last month, according to the
average estimate of 23 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Excessive rains in some parts of the Midwest in the U.S.
may result in some “soybean acreage not getting planted,”
Telvent DTN Inc. said in a forecast yesterday. The Midwest is
the largest U.S. corn- and soybean-growing region.  
 A wave of low pressure moving north from the Gulf of Mexico
may bring heavier rainfall toward the end of the week,
Accuweather.com said yesterday.  
 -- With assistance from  Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris,  Jeff Wilson  in
Chicago,  Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev and  Halia Pavliva  in New
York. Editor:  Jake Lloyd-Smith   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Manila at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        