-- Wheat Climbs for Eighth Day in Paris on Concern Weather May Cut Harvests
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-07-08T10:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/wheat-climbs-for-eighth-day-in-paris-on-concern-weather-may-cut-harvests.html

          
          
             Wheat rose for an eighth day in Paris
on concern that hot, dry weather in Russia, Kazakhstan and
western Europe may cut production. Prices slipped in Chicago.  
 Milling wheat for November delivery climbed as high as
164.25 euros ($207.89) a metric ton, the highest level since
June 2009, on NYSE Liffe. The contract was up 1.7 percent at
163.50 euros at 12:37 p.m. local time. September-delivery wheat
fell 0.2 percent to $5.2925 a bushel on the Chicago Board of
Trade.  
 Russia’s wheat crop may drop this year because of drought,
the Institute for Agricultural Market Studies said yesterday.
France will reap less wheat this year than forecast by the
government, according to farm adviser Agritel. The Kazakh grain
harvest may fall as much as 36 percent from last year’s record,
Deputy Agriculture Minister Arman Yevniyev said.  
 “In Russia, the very strong heat and the lack of rain in
the Volga region and all of the southern Urals create fear for
the yields,” Bourges, France-based farm consultant Offre et
Demande Agricole said in an e-mailed report today. “Elsewhere,
it continues to be warm in France.”  
 The grain crop in Kazakhstan, Central Asia’s biggest wheat
exporter, may drop to between 14.5 million and 15.5 million tons
this year from 22.7 million tons in 2009, state-owned Kazinform
cited Yevniyev as saying today. The Russian harvest may come to
55 million tons, down 3.5 percent from a June 28 estimate, the
institute said.  
 Russian Drought  
 Wheat in Russia’s Volga District, which produces a quarter
of the country’s output, is suffering from drought after
temperatures exceeded 95 degrees Fahrenheit (35 degrees
Celsius), Martell Crop Projections said in a July 6 report.  
 “Downgrades to Black Sea and western Europe wheat crops
and also wet weather in the U.S. have aided the market mentality
over the past couple of weeks,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity
strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia, said by phone from
Sydney today.  
 Chicago-traded wheat slid as much as 1.1 percent, ending
the longest rally since November on speculation that increased
output in the U.S., the largest shipper, will add to supplies.  
 U.S. farmers may harvest 2.164 billion bushels of wheat
this year, more than the 2.067 billion forecast by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture last month, as rains boost yields,
according to the average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  
 USDA Estimate  
 The USDA is scheduled to release its latest estimate on
agricultural global supply and demand, including wheat, corn and
soybeans, tomorrow in Washington.  
 “Over time, I do expect the market to correct lower on the
back of higher global supplies,” Mathews said. Still, the
decline will be “contingent on what the USDA actually has to
say come Friday,” he said.  
 Corn stockpiles in the U.S., the world’s largest grower and
exporter, may fall to 1.292 billion bushels next year, the
smallest since 2004, according to the average estimate of 23
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. That compares with a 1.573
billion-bushel forecast by the USDA last month.  
 December-delivery corn rose 0.1 percent to $3.8975 a
bushel, while soybeans for November delivery added 0.2 percent
to $9.34 a bushel.  
 Inventories of soybeans in the U.S., the largest producer
and exporter of the oilseed, may be 171.6 million bushels before
this year’s harvest, smaller than the 185 million bushels
forecast by the USDA last month, according to the average
estimate of 23 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Excessive rains in some parts of the U.S. Midwest may
result in some “soybean acreage not getting planted,” Telvent
DTN Inc. said in a forecast yesterday. The Midwest is the
largest U.S. corn- and soybean-growing region.  
 A wave of low pressure moving north from the Gulf of Mexico
may bring heavier rainfall toward the end of the week,
Accuweather.com said yesterday.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Manila at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        