-- Formula One Team Makes Golf Clubs, Auto Parts With Sponsor Money Dwindling
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-08T23:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/williams-f-1-team-makes-golf-clubs-to-boost-revenue-as-sponsor-money-drops.html

          
          
             Frank Williams  has struggled to keep
his Formula One team going since 1969. As success eludes it and
sponsors abandon the sport, he may have found an elixir: selling
racing-car technology.  
 The nine-time champion Williams team, whose home race is
this weekend’s British Grand Prix, says it expects to make tens
of millions of pounds a year in sales by developing an energy-
saving flywheel for road cars and is also using aerodynamic
expertise to make golf clubs. Sponsorship revenue of the 12
series teams fell 8 percent to $771 million in 2009, according
to researcher  Formula Money .  
 “It’s a perennial concern,” Williams said in an
interview. “We felt it was necessary to have a more commercial
background.”  
 The team, whose former drivers included champions  Ayrton Senna  and  Alain Prost , is changing its business plan of relying
on sponsorship and prize money as the most popular car racing
series is jolted by an economic slump. Carmakers Honda Motor
Co., Toyota Motor Corp. and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG quit in
the last two years, pulling as much as $1 billion of backing.  
 Williams, now 68, was paralyzed in a 1986 car crash. He’d
kept his team going in the 1970s by selling second-hand racing
car parts, calling it “hand-to-mouth stuff.” In 1974, he had
the phone line to his office in Reading, England, cut off
because of unpaid bills, and he sold the team’s Falcon jet five
years ago to help pay for a wind tunnel.  
 Disappearing Sponsors  
 In the fiscal year ended Nov. 2006, income plunged 30
percent after it lost BMW and  Hewlett-Packard Co.  as backers,
the accounts of Williams Grand Prix Engineering Ltd. show. While
the team has returned to profit, the value of sponsorship deals
continues to swing, depending on the economy, team chairman  Adam Parr  said. Net income fell 50 percent to 4.5 million pounds
($6.8 million) on sales of 108 million pounds in 2009, the
company’s latest accounts show.  
 Williams has “almost been forced” to diversify after
failing to win a title since 1997,  Tony Jardine , a former
assistant manager of the McLaren team, said. Williams, based in
Grove, England, has won 113 races, although its last victory
came in 2004.  
 “They are spreading their bets,” Jardine said. “They’re
one of the old school Formula One teams but their performance
has declined since its zenith.”  
 New Opportunities  
 Williams changed tack two years ago. It bought a stake in
start-up Automotive Hybrid Power Ltd. as it began developing a
flywheel that recoups energy from braking to comply with rules
aimed at making Formula One more environmentally friendly. In
April, it paid 1.6 million pounds to increase its holding to 78
percent even as the flywheel is shelved by teams this season
because of costs.  
 Williams is working with  Porsche SE  and Tata Motors Ltd.’s
Jaguar Land Rover on a flywheel that aims to reduce fuel
consumption by 25 percent in road cars at a cost of $1,400 per
vehicle, Parr said. It is setting up a research center in Qatar
with the government to build flywheels for subways as well as
simulators for road cars, Parr said.  
 The team started a company in City of Industry, California,
with executives from the golf-equipment industry to sell high-
end clubs. Formula One aerodynamicists helped design several
products including a set of  $50,000 gold-plated clubs  with 19
percent less drag force than other brands, the team said. The
clubs are being marketed in China, Japan and the U.S.  
 “Our strategy is to explore areas relevant to what we
do,” Parr said. “We’ve got 500 very, very clever people and
we’ve got a facility that can make almost anything. The golf
clubs are pretty cool.”  
 Diversifying  
 The team expects to make “many tens of millions” of
pounds in three to five years from the flywheel, Parr said. He
declined to give financial details of other projects. In
diversifying, Williams is following Woking, England-based rival
McLaren, which in the 1990s built a 240 mile-per-hour road car
and is now making a model that will sell for about 150,000
pounds.  
 Williams’ struggles aren’t unusual in the sport. USF1,
based in Charlotte, North Carolina, failed to start the season
as scheduled in March. Hinwil, Switzerland-based Sauber, whose
former backers include Credit Suisse AG, is seeking deals on a
race-by-race basis this year after taking over BMW’s team,
marketing executive Alex Sauber said.  
 “The model has to change,”  Tony Fernandes , chief
executive officer of AirAsia Bhd. who manages the Lotus team,
said. “Just having sponsors to fund your team is pretty
tough.”  
 Williams said side projects like making  golf clubs  risk
distracting the team and his priority remains making a faster
race car. The team is seventh in the constructors’ standings
with 20 points after nine of 19 events.  
 “We have got to get back to where we were,” Williams
said. “We have just got to use our technology to make the
world’s best racing cars rather than very average ones.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     'We have got to get back to where we were', said Frank Williams. Photographer: Mark Thompson/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
