-- World Cup Win  May Spur Consumers
-- Jurjen van de Pol
-- 2010-07-10T02:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/world-cup-winners-may-provide-economic-boost-by-spurring-consumer-spending.html

          
          
             The economy of the World Cup
champion will be the real winner as either Spain or the
Netherlands will get a boost from consumers after the world’s
most-watched soccer match, economists say.  
 Triumph in the final at Johannesburg’s Soccer City tomorrow
could add as much as 0.25 percentage point to annual economic
growth for the winning team’s country from increased consumer
spending, according to ABN Amro Bank NV economist  Hein Schotsman 
in Amsterdam. For Spain, that could mean expansion this year
instead of a projected contraction.  
 The all-European final is giving people something to cheer
about in the middle of the sovereign-debt crisis that’s rocking
the continent. Both the finalists could use it. The Dutch, still
wrestling with the bailouts of the nation’s biggest financial-
services companies, saw their government fall in February, while
one in five Spaniards is out of work, the highest  jobless rate 
in Europe.  
 “It would be good for the Dutch economy if the Netherlands
wins,”  ING Groep NV  Chief Executive Officer  Jan Hommen  said.
“Becoming world champion gives a good collective feeling, which
leads to more consumer spending, that could have a positive
impact on the economy of between 0.25 percent to 0.5 percent.”  
 First Appearance  
 Neither the Dutch nor the Spanish has won the quadrennial
tournament before, and both already are benefiting from
increased exposure internationally. Spain is making its first
appearance in a World Cup final after beating three-time
champion Germany in their semi-final on July 7. The Netherlands
has been runner-up twice, the last time in 1978 against
Argentina.  
 “We should be proud, such a small country!” coach  Bert van Marwijk  told Dutch television NOS after his team won their
semi-final by beating Uruguay.  
 A World Cup victory may boost Dutch consumer spending this
year by 700 million euros ($887 million), or 0.25 percent, said
 Charles Kalshoven , an economist at ING in Amsterdam. “The
economic recovery still leans on restocking and exports, with
domestic demand lagging, so increased consumer spending would be
 very welcome  now,” Kalshoven said.  
 If the Dutch win, “every corner of the world will be
reminded the Netherlands exists, where it is and that it’s home
to 11 great players,” ABN’s Schotsman said. “It will help
exporting companies, bringing the Netherlands as a place of
business into the spotlight.”  
 Twice as Big  
 The Dutch economy, the fifth-largest in the euro area, is
set to expand 1.25 percent this year, the government forecasts,
while Spain, whose gross domestic product is twice as big,
projects a 0.3 percent contraction. The European Union in May
estimated Spanish GDP will fall 0.4 percent this year, while the
Netherlands will see 1.3 percent growth.  
 Italy’s triumph over France in the 2006 World Cup led ABN
Amro to raise its forecast for growth in the Italian economy
that year by 0.2 percentage point to 1.7 percent, saying
“happier consumers spend more.” In the end, GDP expanded 2
percent in 2006, a six-year high, according to EU data.  
 “One shouldn’t underestimate Europe,”  European Central
Bank  President Jean-Claude Trichet told reporters July 8 in
Frankfurt. “In soccer in particular, it’s quite impressive to
see number of Europeans” in the final rounds of the tournament,
adding that “I won’t suggest I have any preference” between
Spain and the Netherlands.  
 ‘Euphoric’  
 “Dutch consumers, traditionally conservative spenders,
will become euphoric if the country wins the World Cup, boosting
economic growth as they step up spending,” said Schotsman. On
the other hand, “Spain could prevent full-year economic
contraction by winning,” said Schotsman, the author of an April
report titled “Soccernomics 2010” that predicted a Spanish
triumph this year.  
 For Spain, which emerged from an almost two-year recession
in the first quarter, the benefits may not be as apparent.
 Unemployment  near 20 percent, a surge in borrowing costs and the
deepest budget cuts in three decades may undermine the recovery
in the country.  
 “In terms of our  international standing , it was very
positive” for Spain to reach the final, said Javier Segura,
chief economist at Caixa Catalunya in Barcelona. “But I’m not
sure we can go as far as to say that this would have an impact
on GDP.”  
 GDP Forecasts  
 Spanish Industry Minister  Miguel Sebastian  said economists
may raise their GDP forecasts for his country if its soccer team
triumphs. Victory would improve Spain’s image internationally
and boost the prospects for  domestic spending , he said July 8,
according to Efe newswire.  
 Companies already are benefiting. Madrid-based broadcaster
 Gestevision Telecinco SA , which holds the Spanish rights to the
main World Cup games, climbed 5.4 percent July 8 after Spain
secured its place in the final.  
 Holland Screen Video, based in Roosendaal, the Netherlands,
rented out the last of its 12 big screens for 21,000 euros July
8. The 84-square-meter display is headed to Barcelona where as
many as 40,000 fans will be able to watch the game on it. “The
boom came after the semi-final against Uruguay,” said Holland
Screen Director Marcel Jooren.  
 Amsterdam-based  Heineken NV , the biggest Dutch brewer by
volume, said that “the World Cup success and the beautiful
weather in the Netherlands” are lifting beer sales.  
 Orange Dresses  
 Bavaria NV, the Netherlands’ second-largest brewer, won
attention from a widely reported row with World Cup organizers
over fans wearing orange dresses, which are distributed free
with its beer, during the Netherlands’ game against Denmark on
June 14. Orange is the official color of the Dutch team.  
 Sales at  Ahold NV ’s Albert Heijn supermarkets, the biggest
Dutch chain, have been lifted by the World Cup as customers
bought more ready-made meals and drinks, company spokeswoman
Anoesjka Aspeslagh said. Dutch supermarket sales increased 2.8
percent in June from a year earlier, according to market
researcher GfK Panel Services Benelux BV.  
 The winning team itself could boost spending, as Spanish
players have been promised 600,000 euros each in bonuses if they
win, according to newspaper Marca. The Dutch squad will get a
bonus of about 300,000 euros per player, De Telegraaf reported
on July 2.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     ING Groep NV Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
