-- Yahoo CFO Aims to End Buy-High, Sell-Low Record on Deals
-- Brian Womack
-- 2010-07-08T20:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/yahoo-cfo-aims-to-end-buy-high-sell-low-track-record-on-deals.html

          
          
             Yahoo! Inc.  Chief Financial Officer
 Tim Morse , aiming to boost profitability while adding Internet
content and services, says he plans to reverse the company’s
pattern of overpaying for acquisitions.  
 “You’ve seen our track record on M&A, with buying really
high and selling pretty low,” Morse said in an interview.
“We’ve got to be careful.”  
 Appointed finance chief a year ago, Morse says he intends
to improve the return on invested capital, a measure of how
profitably Yahoo is spending, to 18 to 24 percent in 2013 from
about 5 percent in 2009. To do that, Yahoo will shun high-priced
targets that don’t fit with the company’s strategy, Morse says.  
 Yahoo , the second-biggest U.S. search engine, agreed to
sell its HotJobs website for $225 million in February after
paying about $436 million for it in 2002. In January, Yahoo sold
Zimbra, an e-mail and collaboration unit, netting $100 million.
Yahoo bought it in 2007 for $350 million.  
 Acquired companies  will have to help Yahoo meet
profitability targets, says Morse, 41.  
 “It’s got to have a business model, it’s got to fit into
our strategy,” Morse said. And Yahoo needs to be able to get it
for “a relatively good price,” he said.  
 Morse, who joined Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo five
months after  Carol Bartz  was named chief executive officer in
January 2009, came from chipmaker Altera Corp., where he served
as CFO. He spent the prior 15 years at  General Electric Co.   
 New Tack  
 Management’s  mandate is to reverse the sales growth
slowdown that more than halved Yahoo’s stock price since the
beginning of 2006. The company is grappling with competition
from larger rival  Google Inc.  and surging growth in social-
networking sites such as Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc.  
 Morse has helped Bartz cut expenses by about $1 billion and
plans to remove an additional $1.5 billion in costs to expand
 profit margins  and add to cash holdings.  
 “Between Carol and Tim, I think they’re bringing a lot of
operational focus,” said  Sameet Sinha , an analyst at JMP
Securities LLC in San Francisco, who  recommends  buying the
shares, which he doesn’t own. “Yahoo was just run in a very
haphazard manner.”  
 Overspending helped drive down Yahoo’s return on invested
capital to about one-quarter the return for Mountain View,
California-based Google, Bloomberg data show.  
 Yahoo gained 21 cents to $14.60 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The  shares  have declined 63 percent
since the end of 2005.  
 ‘Fund That Yourself’  
 To drive out costs, Morse asks colleagues who want to
invest in one area to tell him where they can “de-invest” in
another.  
 “Tell me the other efficiencies that you’re wringing out
of the system,” Morse said. “Tell me how you’re going to fund
that yourself.”  
 Yahoo  should stick to acquisitions of about $100 million or
less that help the company make more money from its 600 million
users, said  Ryan Jacob , chief executive officer of Jacob Funds
Inc. in Los Angeles, which owns Yahoo shares.  
 “The way to go is small,” Jacob said. “Clearly, there’s
a lot less risk employing that kind of strategy.”  
 In May, Yahoo agreed to buy Associated Content, a Web
publishing company that uses individual contributors. The cost
of the deal was about $100 million, a person familiar with the
matter said then. Two months earlier, it said it bought Citizen
Sports, which will add mobile and social-networking features.
Last year, Yahoo acquired Maktoob.com, an Arabic-language
Internet service based in Jordan.  
 Data Center Savings  
 Yahoo may spend $200 million to $300 million on deals this
year, with an emphasis on young startups, said  Todd Dagres , a
general partner at venture capital firm Spark Capital in Boston.  
 “They’re going to have to make some acquisitions in order
to ensure their future,” Dagres said. “To maintain their
position it’s going to be a challenge, never mind trying to grow
from where they are.”  
 Morse says trimming costs will help push Yahoo toward
operating margins of 15 percent to 20 percent in 2012 from 6
percent last year.  
 He’s looking to lower  expenses  associated with Yahoo data
centers, which include servers that run the website, by reducing
their number and owning, rather than  leasing , them. By 2014,
power costs will probably drop by 70 percent and total expenses
by 35 percent, he said. Modernizing much of Yahoo’s software
systems is likely to result in 30 percent savings on maintenance
and support resources between now and 2013.  
 Bringing GE to Yahoo  
 “If they can meet those cost-savings objectives, then
their margin outlook is really quite good,” said Jacob at Jacob
Funds. “We probably won’t know until next year.”  
 Yahoo’s 10-year agreement that will put  Microsoft Corp. ’s
Bing search engine on Yahoo’s sites will be key to the company’s
savings efforts. The alliance will transfer search technology
costs to Microsoft. Yahoo expects savings of about $300 million
this year and $650 million in 2013.  
 Morse said his years at  GE , including as CFO of its
plastics division, shaped his management style. The focus on
efficiency and long-term planning has helped him add discipline
at Yahoo.  
 “One of the big efforts in the company is to kind of
change the culture, create more of a culture of efficiency,” he
said.  
 In the past, managers set short-term goals that were easier
to reach, he said. They might plan for a month, rather than a
quarter, much less a year or years, Morse said.  
 He has assigned himself a B or B minus for his efforts so
far -- after Bartz, 61, gave herself a B minus in January for
her first year. Morse says the job is incomplete.  
 “It’s a work in process,” he said. “Until you really
start ticking off the top-line acceleration, the margin
expansion --there’s only so much you can say.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Yahoo! Inc. Chief Financial Officer Tim Morse speaks during an interview in Sunnyvale, California. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
