-- Tyco Electronics Faces Whistleblower Suit by Manager Over Party Expenses
-- Dawn McCarty
-- 2010-07-08T20:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/tyco-electronics-faces-whistleblower-suit-by-manager-over-party-expenses.html

          
          
             Tyco Electronics Corp.  was sued by a
former employee who claims he was fired for disclosing
fraudulent accounting practices at the maker of electronic
connectors.  
 Jeffrey Wiest, who worked in the company’s accounting
office in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, for 31 years, said Tyco
began investigating him in September after he challenged
“illegal attempts” to process payments for “extravagant
parties,” according to the complaint filed yesterday in U.S.
District Court in Philadelphia.  
 Wiest, 54, said that in mid-2007 he began questioning
expenses that didn’t meet accounting standards, including the
“legitimacy of a $350,000 event being held at the Atlantis
Resort in the Bahamas.” The former account manager said he
“was amazed that his supervisors authorized an island party
with disturbing similarities to the past issues raised under
 Dennis Kozlowski .”  
 Tyco International Ltd. spun off Tyco Electronics in 2007.
Both are based in Schaffhausen, Switzerland. Kozlowski, Tyco
International’s former chief executive officer, was convicted in
2005 of securities fraud, grand larceny and falsifying business
records.  
 Expenses for the Atlantis party included $3,000 for
costumed mermaids and pirates, $2,350 for a tattoo artist and
dancers, $2,500 for chair covers and sashes, and rooms at
nightly rates ranging from $475 to more than $1,000, Wiest said
in court papers.  
 ‘Without Merit’  
 “Mr. Wiest’s claims of any inappropriate activity or
accounting are completely without merit,”  Martinique Woods , a
spokeswoman for Tyco Electronics, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Our company has reviewed all of the allegations raised by Mr.
Wiest and concluded that our accounting was proper for this
business event.”  
 In 2008, expenses for two other Tyco Electronics events
were presented for payment without proper documentation, Wiest
said. The first, at the Venetian Resort in Las Vegas, cost more
than $218,000 and the second, at the Wintergreen Resort in
Virginia, cost more than $355,000, he said.  
 Wiest also questioned the accounting treatment of
activities including a “relatively lavish ‘holiday’ party held
only for the headquarters staff” and expenses for an employee
baby shower, court papers show.  
 Retaliation Alleged  
 “Tyco’s investigation and treatment of Wiest was in
retaliation for his actions in insisting on adherence to
accurate and lawful accounting practices,” according to the
complaint. Wiest asked for a jury trial, reimbursement for
medical expenses, and compensation for legal fees, pain and
suffering.  
 Tyco Electronics executives named in the lawsuit include
Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Lynch , Chief Financial Officer
 Terrence Curtin , and  Charles Dougherty , president of Tyco’s
wireless systems unit. The company reported a  net loss  of $3.26
billion in the fiscal year ended in September on sales of $10.3
billion.  
 Tyco Electronics  fell 48 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $24.85
at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have climbed 49 percent in the past year.  
 The case is Wiest v. Lynch, 10-cv-03288, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        