-- Yen Falls to Two-Week Low Versus Euro on Global Recovery Signs, Stock Gain
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-07-09T11:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/yen-trades-near-two-week-low-versus-euro-on-recovery-signs-stocks-rally.html

          
          
             The yen traded near an almost three-
week low against the euro as stocks rose on signs the global
economy will weather Europe’s debt crisis, damping demand for
the relative safety of Japan’s currency.  
 Europe’s shared currency headed for a second weekly gain
versus the dollar as the Stoxx Europe 600 Index of shares
advanced for a fourth straight day. South Korea’s won rose for a
second day after the  central bank  unexpectedly raised interest
rates for the first time since the onset of the global financial
crisis. The Canadian dollar strengthened after a report showed
job creation in June was almost five times more than forecast.  
 “All eyes are on the equity markets,” said  Derek Halpenny , European head of currency research at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “Risk appetite is helping the
euro and hurting the yen, although I think we’re in for some
disappointment in terms of growth further down the road.”  
 The yen was little changed at 112.29 per euro as of 7:05
a.m. in New York, and reached 112.67, the weakest since June 21.
Japan’s currency has fallen 1.8 percent against the euro this
week. The yen slipped 0.2 percent to 88.57 per dollar. The euro
depreciated 0.2 percent to $1.2676, trimming its weekly gain to
0.9 percent.  
 The yen headed for a weekly loss versus all 16 of the major
currencies, dropping 5.2 percent against the Australian dollar
and 4.2 percent versus New Zealand’s dollar. The Stoxx Europe
600 Index rose 0.5 percent. The  MSCI World Index  added 0.3
percent, for a weekly advance of 4.9 percent, the most in almost
a year.  
 Growth Signs  
 Demand for higher-yielding assets increased after a U.S.
report yesterday showed initial claims for jobless benefits fell
last week. Italian industrial output climbed a more-than-
forecast 1 percent in May, a third monthly gain, and French
production expanded a greater-than-predicted 1.7 percent the
same month, reports showed today.  
 “Pessimism toward the global recovery is easing in line
with a solid performance from bourses around the world,” said
 Mike Jones , a currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington. “Risk sentiment is returning, so investors are
selling safe-haven currencies such as the yen and the dollar.”  
 The yen slipped 0.3 percent to 77.74 per Australian dollar,
and declined 0.5 percent to 62.99 versus the so-called kiwi.  
 Activity ‘Strengthening’  
 The Canadian dollar strengthened 0.8 percent versus its
U.S. counterpart to C$1.0339 after Statistics Canada in Ottawa
said employment rose by 93,200 in June. That followed gains of
24,700 in May and April’s record 108,700.  
 The euro was poised for the biggest weekly gain versus the
yen in three months after European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  said at a press conference in Frankfurt yesterday
that “indicators suggest that a strengthening in economic
activity took place during the spring.”  
 The ECB’s main interest rate is at an “appropriate”
level, and inflation expectations “remain firmly anchored,” he
also said.  
 “A weak euro is likely to soothe the pain of the euro-zone
economy, which will feel the pinch from fiscal consolidation,”
said  Masaru Hamasaki , chief strategist in Tokyo at Toyota Asset
Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $15 billion.
“If the market came to realize this benefit, the euro may
regain some lost confidence.”  
 The euro was boosted this week on speculation stress tests
for European banks assumed smaller losses on Greek bonds than
some investors anticipated.  
 European regulators have told lenders their planned tests
may assume a loss of about 17 percent on Greek debt and 3
percent on Spanish bonds, according to two people briefed on the
talks. Credit markets are pricing in losses of about 60 percent
on Greek bonds should the government default.  
 ‘Strong Belief’  
 “There is strong belief that stress tests will help ease
concerns about the health of the banking system in Europe,”
said  Tomohiro Nishida , a Tokyo-based foreign-currency dealer at
Chuo Mitsui Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s seventh-
largest banking group. “If this is the case, this will benefit
the euro.”  
 The won climbed to a two-week high after the Bank of Korea
raised its  seven-day repurchase rate  to 2.25 percent from a
record low 2 percent. An increase was forecast by just four of
14 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  
 “Risk sentiment has improved over the last couple of days
because of the recovery in stock markets,” said  Thio Chin Loo ,
a senior currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in Singapore. The
BOK’s decision “further reinforces that Asia is kind of moving
to a different drumbeat.”  
 ‘Undervalued’ Yuan  
 The International Monetary Fund said three days ago that
South Korea needs to gradually boost borrowing costs as monetary
policy is currently “somewhat beyond what is necessary to
support the recovery.”  
 The won rose 1.1 percent to 1,195.85 per dollar after
climbing to 1,194.93, the strongest since June 25.  
 The Chinese yuan was little changed against the dollar
after U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  pledged to
monitor what he called an “undervalued” currency in the next
three months, seeking signs that China is meeting commitments to
help rebalance the global economy.  
 China took a “significant step” last month when it ended
its peg to the dollar and allowed markets to drive the currency
higher, the Treasury Department said yesterday. The report,
initially due April 15, concluded that no major U.S. trading
partner manipulated its currency, and said it’s not yet clear
whether China’s policy shift will correct the yuan’s
undervaluation. The Treasury promised another review in October.  
 “What matters is how far and how fast the renminbi
appreciates,” Geithner said, using another name for China’s
currency. “We will closely and regularly monitor the
appreciation of the renminbi and will continue to work towards
expanded U.S. export opportunities in China that support
employment in the United States, in close consultation with
Congress.”  
 The yuan strengthened 0.05 percent to 6.7730 per dollar.  

 

To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
mbrown42@bloomberg.net;
Yasuhiko Seki in Tokyo at 
yseki5@bloomberg.net


 
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Sebastien Galy, a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA, discusses the outlook for the euro and the prospects for stabilization of European credit markets.
     Galy speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
