-- Yingli $5.3 Billion Loan May Boost Solar Panel Supply
-- John Duce
-- 2010-07-09T02:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/yingli-s-5-3-billion-loan-may-help-china-double-global-solar-panel-supply.html

          
          
               China  may double the world’s capacity
for making solar panels by loaning Yingli Green Energy Holding
Co. 36 billion yuan ($5.3 billion) to expand production, a
Bloomberg New Energy Finance analyst said.  
 The funds from the state-run China Development Bank Corp.
follow an agreement to lend as much as 50 billion yuan to
Suntech Power Holdings Co. in April. Some 30 billion yuan was
also loaned to  Trina Solar Ltd . by the bank in the same month,
according to New Energy Finance. The three New York-traded
companies are China’s biggest solar firms by market value.  
 “The loans are enough to increase the world’s solar wafer
and cell capacity by 100 percent,” said Jenny Chase, head of
solar-energy analysis for New Energy Finance in  London . “It
will allow the Chinese companies to deliver unprecedented
economies of scale.”  
 The money will allow China to strengthen its position as
the world’s largest maker of solar panels used to generate
electricity from the sun’s rays. Yingli and its Chinese
competitors shipped 43 percent of the world’s solar panels last
year, according to the London-based research group owned by
Bloomberg LP.  
 Yingli will use the funds to finance both domestic
development and boost its overseas business, the Baoding-based
company said in a statement on its website. The company didn’t
provide further details or disclose terms of the loan.  
 China Development Bank also extended an eight-year loan of
$70 million to Yingli in December 2008 to fund expansion. The
company said in a separate statement it has started production
on a solar panel factory able to make 400 megawatts of
generation capacity a year.  
 Capacity Expansion  
 Yingli expects its newest production lines to reach full
capacity by the end of the third quarter, raising its total
output capacity to 1 gigawatt. The  China Development Bank  loan
may be enough to raise Yingli’s production capacity to as much
as 5 gigawatts, Chase said.  
 The 50 billion yuan loan agreement with Suntech may be used
to help expand output capacity, said spokesman Rory Macpherson.  
 “The strategic agreement signifies China Development
Bank’s confidence in the ongoing growth of Suntech and the solar
industry,” he said. “The use of the funds was not specified
though could potentially be used for capacity expansion.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story: Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at
   sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        