-- Yuan Pressure May Mount With Widening Trade Surplus
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-08T22:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/yuan-pressure-may-mount-as-analysts-see-return-to-sustained-china-surplus.html

          
          
             China’s June export and import data
may signal a return to sustained surpluses that could fuel
overseas pressure for a faster pace of yuan gains.  
 The  trade gap  almost doubled to $15.6 billion last month
from a year earlier, as cooling domestic investment capped
imports, according to the median estimate of 24 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. That would be the third surplus after a
deficit in March. The data is due tomorrow.  
 China’s trading partners are monitoring the pace of yuan
appreciation after the government scrapped a peg to the dollar
and allowed a 0.7 percent gain in the past three weeks. Policy
makers in the world’s biggest exporting nation may be reluctant
to move too quickly as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis threatens
external demand just as the domestic economy is slowing.  
 “The deceleration of imports may outpace that of exports in
coming months, leaving sizable trade surpluses,” said  Lu Zhengwei , a Shanghai-based economist at Industrial Bank Co.
“Faster yuan appreciation would multiply the negative impact on
exporters who are already facing weaker overseas demand and
rising labor costs.”  
 Any slide in European demand has yet to hit Chinese
 exports , which may have climbed 38 percent from a year earlier,
compared with 48.5 percent in May, the survey indicated. The
estimated $132 billion  value  of sales would be close to May’s
level and also the record set in the third quarter of 2008
before the financial crisis deepened.  
 Treasury Report  
 The U.S. said the yuan “remains undervalued” after the
nation ended its peg to the dollar while stopping short of
branding China a currency manipulator.  
 China took a “significant step” last month when it began to
allow markets to drive the currency higher, the U.S. Treasury
Department said in a report to Congress yesterday. The report,
initially due April 15, also said it’s not yet clear whether the
policy shift will correct the yuan’s undervaluation.  
 Signs that global trade remains buoyant include
container-shipping line  AP Moller-Maersk A/S  reporting
shortages of cargo boxes. The International Monetary Fund
yesterday raised its 2010 global growth forecast to 4.6 percent,
up 0.4 percentage points from an April estimate, while also
seeing risks from financial-market turmoil.  
 China’s estimated trade surplus would be the second highest
this year, after May’s $19.5 billion. JPMorgan Chase & Co sees
surpluses of between $10 billion and $15 billion in coming
months, and possibly larger amounts by year end.  
 Cooling Demand  
 The nation’s export rebound will weaken “as the U.S.
economic recovery passes its peak and fiscal consolidation in
the euro zone cools demand,” said  Wang Qian , a Hong Kong-based
economist for JPMorgan. Chinese officials “may frontload some
yuan appreciation while export gains are still handsome and then
limit the pace if they see notable downside risks.”  
 On top of a strengthening currency, some export
manufacturers face higher labor costs as 20 provinces and cities
raise minimum wages this year and companies including  Toyota
Motor Corp.  and Honda Motor Co. increased salaries after
strikes.  
 President  Barack Obama  said June 27 that the U.S. expects
the yuan, or renminbi, to gain “significantly” and will
monitor progress over coming months. In contrast, China’s
central  bank  said June 20 that there’s no basis for “large-
scale appreciation” as the nation moves closer to balanced
international payments.  
 U.S. Deficit Widens  
 America’s trade deficit with China grew 5.7 percent to $71
billion in the first four months of 2010 from a year earlier,
according to U.S government data, with the U.S. alleging that
Chinese exporters benefit from a weak currency that makes their
products cheaper in overseas markets.  
 While the survey of economists shows imports increasing
35.4 percent in June from a year earlier, the slowest pace in
seven months, their value -- about $118 billion -- would be the
third-highest on record, lagging behind only April and March
figures.  
 The surge in  imports,  which drove a 60 percent decline in
China’s trade surplus in the first five months of this year, may
moderate as commodity prices weaken. Government efforts to cool
the real-estate market, limit local-government borrowing for
infrastructure, and curb some polluting and energy-
intensive ventures could also limit demand.  
 “China’s import trend, especially purchases of commodities
and machinery, is closely related to the cycle of investment in
fixed assets,” said JPMorgan’s Wang. “Softening investment and
manufacturers reducing stocks of raw materials may damp import
demand in coming months.”  
 Manufacturing Slows  
 China’s  manufacturing  growth weakened for a second month in
June and a raw-material inventory index contracted, a purchasing
managers’ survey released by the Federation of Logistics &
Purchasing showed July 1. The report indicated a “sharp”
decline in orders for industries including oil and metal
processing.  
 Economic growth  may gradually decelerate to 8.5 percent in
the fourth quarter of this year, after an 11.9 percent expansion
in the January-March period from a year earlier, according to
UBS AG.  
 -- Li Yanping . With assistance from  Jay Wang  in Singapore.
Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Nerys Avery   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The U.S. said the yuan “remains undervalued” after the nation ended its peg to the dollar while stopping short of branding China a currency manipulator. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior economist and strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about China's currency policy.
     The U.S., stopping short of branding China a currency manipulator, said the yuan "remains undervalued" after the nation ended its peg to the dollar. China took a "significant step" last month when it began to allow markets to drive the currency higher, the Treasury Department said in a report to Congress released yesterday. Kowalczyk, speaking from Hong Kong, also discusses China's economy and central bank monetary policy. (Excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Stuart Eizenstat, a partner at Covington & Burling and former deputy U.S. Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton, talks about today's Treasury Department report on China's yuan policy.
     The Treasury said China’s yuan “remains undervalued” after the nation ended its peg to the dollar while stopping short of branding the country a currency manipulator. Eizenstat speaks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Donald Straszheim, senior managing director of China research at International Strategy & Investment Group, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about China's currency policy.
     The U.S., stopping short of branding China a currency manipulator, said the yuan "remains undervalued" after the nation ended its peg to the dollar. China took a "significant step" last month when it began to allow markets to drive the currency higher, the Treasury Department said in a report to Congress released yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
