-- Yucaipa's Ron Burkle Fights Barnes & Noble's Poison Pill in Delaware Court
-- Matt Townsend
-- 2010-07-08T22:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/yucaipa-s-ron-burkle-fights-barnes-noble-s-poison-pill-in-delaware-court.html

          
          
             Yucaipa Cos.’  Ron Burkle  told a judge
he wants to improve  Barnes & Noble Inc. ’s business as he seeks
to invalidate the bookseller’s poison-pill defense against
takeovers and buy more shares.  
 Yucaipa accuses Barnes & Noble directors, including
Chairman  Leonard Riggio , of engineering a “self-dealing scheme
designed to entrench the Riggio family” as controlling
shareholders and to stymie Burkle’s efforts to gain seats on the
board. Los Angeles-based Yucaipa is the biggest outside
shareholder of the bookstore chain, the largest in the U.S.  
 Burkle’s firm invests in promising businesses because “we
want to try to make them better companies,” he told Delaware
Chancery Court Judge  Leo Strine Jr.  as trial began today in
Wilmington. At the same time, “we wouldn’t want to keep them
forever,” Burkle said.  
 Yucaipa considered pursuing a buyout bid for Barnes & Noble
at $25 a share before deciding the effort would be “a waste of
time” considering the Riggios’ 32 percent stake, Burkle
testified. Barnes & Noble, based in New York, adopted the poison
pill plan in November and said it would come up for shareholder
ratification within a year.  
 Barnes & Noble  rose 22 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $12.74 in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading  at 4:15 p.m. The
shares have fallen 33 percent this year.  
 ‘Hostile Attack’  
 Michael Pittenger , a Barnes & Noble lawyer, wrote in a
filing that the company’s board, “reasonably fearing a hostile
attack,” set up the poison pill on the advice of legal and
financial advisers after learning that Burkle had bought almost
18 percent of the stock.  
 The poison pill is a shareholder rights agreement that
would allow investors to buy large amounts of stock at cut-rate
prices when an outsider acquires 20 percent or more of the
shares. The plan, designed to make a hostile takeover
prohibitively expensive, “is intended to protect our
shareholders from actions that are inconsistent with their best
interests,” Barnes & Noble said in court papers.  
 “The board’s near obsession with activist stockholders as
a threat” shows its “determination to frustrate the exercise
of the stockholder franchise,” Yucaipa lawyer  David McBride 
told Strine in a pretrial brief.  
 “Burkle wants more power and more say about the strategic
direction Barnes & Noble is taking,” said  Michael Souers , an
analyst in New York for Standard & Poor’s who recommends holding
Barnes & Noble shares. “If he acquires more shares, he’d be
able to be a stronger activist and effect change a little bit
easier.”  
 Management Criticized  
 Yucaipa contends  Barnes & Noble  adopted the poison pill
after Burkle increased his stake and criticized management for
 buying  Barnes & Noble College Booksellers Inc. last year from
Riggio for $514 million.  
 The Riggios used Barnes & Noble as a “personal piggy
bank,” authorizing a deal for the college chain “at an above-
market price,” Yucaipa alleges in its complaint.  
 Barnes & Noble director  Patricia Higgins  said under
testimony that in a meeting on Nov. 17, Riggio told the board
Burkle wanted Barnes & Noble to buy  Borders Group Inc. , the
second-largest U.S. bookstore chain. Burkle said under testimony
that he told Riggio buying Borders was a bad idea. The board
approved the pill during that meeting.  
 Ackman, Borders  
 Notes taken by a Barnes & Noble lawyer during the meeting
recorded Riggio telling the board that Burkle was working with
 William Ackman  of Pershing Square Capital Management, then the
largest shareholder in Borders, in pursuing a deal.  
 Ackman didn’t respond for a request for comment.  Mary Davis , a spokeswoman for Borders, declined to comment.  
 Burkle said he told Riggio that he had met with Ackman and
they discussed Barnes & Noble buying some Borders assets if the
company went bankrupt.  
 Access to the trial’s webcast and evidence was made
possible through the Courtroom View Network.  
 Other transactions challenged in Yucaipa’s lawsuit include
Barnes & Noble’s agreement to leases in which the Riggios have
interests at an annual rent of more than $5 million, the
purchase of $8.25 million in textbooks from a Riggio affiliate,
and the contracting of freight services from Riggio interests
for shipping to retail stores.  
 Barnes & Noble hasn’t set a date for a shareholder vote on
the poison pill, which expires in November 2012. Yucaipa plans
to propose a slate of three directors to oppose management’s
candidates at the shareholder meeting scheduled for Sept. 28.  
 Potential Loss  
 Barnes & Noble, with $5.81 billion in sales for the year
ended May 1, said last month it might see a loss of as much as
40 cents a share this fiscal year because of a $140 million
investment in its digital-book unit.  
 In testimony, Burkle explained some of his ideas for
improving Barnes & Noble, including forging alliances with
 Hewlett-Packard Co.  and  Microsoft Corp.  to offer electronics in
retail stores and to print paperback books on-demand, without
having to maintain large inventories.  
 The case is Yucaipa American Alliance Fund II LP v. Riggio,
CA5465, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        