-- ZAP Buying Chinese Carmaker Jonway Automobile to Produce Electric Taxicabs
-- Theo Keith
-- 2010-07-08T20:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-08/zap-buying-chinese-carmaker-jonway-automobile-to-produce-electric-taxicabs.html

          
          
             ZAP , a developer of battery-powered
vehicles that has posted seven straight annual losses, said it
will buy a majority stake in Chinese automaker Zhejiang Jonway
Automobile Co. in a deal worth about $43 million.  
 ZAP said it will pay $29.03 million in cash and
31.5 million shares for a 51 percent stake in Jonway Auto. The
companies will partner to make battery-powered sport-utility
vehicles for China’s taxi industry, and ZAP will distribute the
SUV in other countries, ZAP Chief Executive Officer  Steve Schneider  said in an interview.  
 “While everyone else in the industry targets the Chinese
passenger-car market, there’s less competition in the taxi
industry,” he said. “I think we can take the leadership
role.”  
 The A380 SUV will have room for five passengers and will
cost $25,000, Schneider said. Jonway already produces a
gasoline-powered version.  
 ZAP has posted one annual profit, in 2002, in the Santa
Rosa, California-based company’s 15-year history. Its shares
rose 4 cents, or 8.9 percent, to 49 cents at 3:59 p.m. in over-
the-counter trading. The shares had reached almost
58 cents earlier in the day, the highest in 20 months. ZAP
shares have almost tripled from a low of 17 cents on Dec. 14.  
 Chairman  Priscilla Lu , who is working with the Chinese
government to get approval to sell the cars, arranged financing
for the cash portion of the transaction through European private
investments, Schneider said without elaborating.  
 Lu has worked with Chinese regulators and other industries
in the past, Schneider said. ZAP’s board approved the deal July
2, and the company expects the Chinese government to sign off by
September, he said.  
 ZAP said in an e-mailed statement that it aims to buy the
rest of Jonway Auto, a subsidiary of the Jonway Group,
eventually. ZAP, which has a market capitalization of
$54.6 million, is issuing new shares for the transaction,
Schneider said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theo Keith  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 tkeith6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        