-- Fed's Yellen: inflation expectations well anchored
-- By  Scott Malone
-- Fri Sep 28, 2007 11:12am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/09/28/businesspro-usa-fed-yellen-dc-idUSN2835610820070928

 

 BOSTON  (Reuters) - San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank 
President Janet Yellen said on Friday that well-anchored 
inflation expectations create a buffer against supply shocks. 

  "Well-anchored inflation expectations, as we have had in 
the United States since the mid-1980s, can reduce ... the 
sensitivity of inflation to supply shocks," Yellen said in a 
paper prepared for delivery at a Boston Fed conference on 
behavioral economics.  Yellen did not discuss the current economy or interest rate 
outlook beyond saying that "in the short run, monetary policy 
can and should strive to stabilize the real economy."  Yellen is not a voting member of the central bank's 
policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee in 2007.  Public understanding of the Fed's policy intentions can 
help form expectations that enhance economic stability, she 
said, adding that "issues related to communications and 
credibility figure prominently in Federal Open Market Committee 
discussions."  The Fed's 12th District president said inflation over the 
long term "primarily reflects the actions of the central bank" 
but that there is little guidance on what inflation rate the 
Fed should strive for.  There may be benefits in choosing an inflation target that 
is low but positive," leaving a small "cushion" to guard 
against deflationary risks, Yellen said.  Fed policy-makers have been debating their communications 
strategy for months, including the possible implementation of 
an explicit inflation target to guide policy.  Behavioral economic research backs the view that inflation 
is costly, even though "very modest" inflation might help 
protect against downward wage rigidity, she said.  "Individuals strongly dislike inflation. It appears to 
reduce reported happiness," in part by making it harder for 
people to plan for the future, she said.  Modest inflation rates can lower the equilibrium rate of 
employment, but beyond a certain point higher inflation raises 
that level by becoming a bigger factor in decision-making by 
employers, she said.  "Such evidence ... reinforces the desirability of keeping 
inflation quite low."  The Fed's favored inflation gauge, the core personal 
consumption expenditures (PCE) price index, fell in August to a 
year-on-year 1.8 percent, its lowest in more than three years, 
according to government data on Friday.  Inflation has subsided this year despite record high crude 
oil prices and a low unemployment rate.