-- CORRECTED - Dubai-led fund confirms EADS investment interest
-- 
-- Sat Nov 11, 2006 10:58am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/11/financial-emirates-eads-idUSL1185790820061111

 

  (Corrects headline, first and second paragraphs to remove
reference to talks with EADS CFO about possibly buying a stake) 

  By James Cordahi DUBAI  Nov 11 (Reuters) - State-owned investment agency
Dubai International Capital (DIC) confirmed on Saturday it might
be interested in buying a stake in Airbus parent company EADS
EADS.PA for a Gulf Arab fund it will manage.  DIC Chief Executive Sameer al-Ansari said he would meet 
EADS Chief Financial Officer Hans Peter Ring and his
counterparts from as many as seven German firms as part of a
plan to set up the fund worth $10-$15 billion with stakes in the
world's biggest companies.  The German firms include industrial conglomerate Siemens
( SIEGn.DE ), Deutsche Lufthansa ( LHAG.DE ) and auto maker MAN
( MANG.DE ).  "We've invited all these companies here so we can talk to
them, get to know each other better and, if we still feel there
is a good investment opportunity with any of these companies,
then we will engage with them in further discussions and we will
carry out due diligence," Ansari told reporters in Dubai.  Further talks would take months, he said.  EADS shares surged more than 5 percent on Thursday after
Ansari told Reuters about the planned talks. The shares closed
up 1.13 percent at 21.57 euros ($27.76).  DIC later issued a statement that it had no intention of
buying shares in EADS, without making reference to the Global
Strategic Equities Fund it is setting up or giving a time
reference.  On Thursday's interview with Reuters and with another news
organisation, Ansari said: "I referred to EADS as a possible
investment opportunity for Dubai International Capital. The same
could be said of numerous other publicly traded companies."  EADS swung to a third-quarter operating loss after delays to
its A380 programme drove away customer FedEx ( FDX.N ) and led to
1 billion euros in charges.  Dubai and other Gulf Arab investors plan to create the
$10-15 billion fund during the next three years and it may invest
among 500 leading companies such as Boeing Co. ( BA.N ) and
General Electric Co. ( GE.N ), Ansari said on Thursday.  In its first purchase, the fund will spend $1 billion on a
stake in a New York-listed company by March, Ansari said in
Thursday's Reuters interview. He declined to give more details.  DIC, which will manage the fund, expects to collect $1
billion this month from the governments of Abu Dhabi and Qatar
and other investors for initial acquisitions of $5 billion, he
said.



