-- Jim Cramer: Ross Stores, TJX, Kinross, AT&T, Amazon, Riverbed
-- Adam Satariano
-- 2007-04-26T23:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-04-26/jim-cramer-ross-stores-tjx-kinross-at-t-amazon-riverbed.html

          
          
             Ross Stores Inc. (ROST)  and  TJX Cos. (TJX)  could
be buyout targets of private equity firms because they have
large cash flow and areas to cut costs, CNBC host  Jim Cramer 
said today on his ``Mad Money'' television program.  
 Private equity firms have contributed to the stock market
rally that pushed the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  over 13,000,
said Cramer, a market commentator and former hedge-fund manager.  
 Ross, owner of the Dress for Less discount retail chain,
could have higher profits if taken private, Cramer said. A
private equity firm could fire workers and close unprofitable
stores, Cramer said.  
 TJX, owner of T.J. Maxx and Marshalls, has had sales
declines at its core stores as a consequence of growth, Cramer
said. Private equity firms could close stores to increase profit
levels, he said.  
 Cramer said companies exceeding earnings estimates will
continue to bolster the stock market, with industries such as
household products, telecommunications, brokerage, agriculture,
biotechnology, heath care and energy drillers among those poised
to report strong performances.  
 Investors should buy shares of  Yamana Gold Inc. (YRI)  and  Kinross
Gold Corp. (K) , Cramer said. Kinross Chief Executive Officer Tye Burt said in an interview on the program that the company would
be increasing production levels to more than 2 million ounces.  
 Cramer also said he was wrong about suggesting investors
avoiding  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  Riverbed
Technology Inc. (RVBD)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   
 Cramer Recommendations  
 Cramer recommended buying or holding Medco Health Solutions
Inc., CVS/Caremark Corp., Caterpillar Inc., Allergan Inc.,
Transocean Inc.,  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , Coca-Cola Co.,  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) ,  CSX Corp. (CSX) ,  Boeing
Co. (BA) , Saks Inc.,  Volcano Corp. (VOLC) ,  Cal Dive International Inc. (DVR) ,
Superior Offshore International Inc., Archer Daniels Midland
Co.,  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  NVR Inc. (NVR) ,  NutriSystem Inc. (NTRI) , EMC Corp. and
 Alleghany Corp. (Y)   
 He suggested investors avoid or sell shares of  Akamai
Technologies Inc. (AKAM) ,  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) ,  Krispy Kreme
Doughnuts Inc. (KKD) , American Ecology Corp.,  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and
 Ivanhoe Energy Inc. (IE)   
 Cramer said he owns Caterpillar, Goldman, Halliburton,
Transocean and  Marvell Technology  for his charitable trust.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 Asatariano1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff Ward at   jward@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        