-- Data show robust U.S. economy
-- By  Burton Frierson
-- Thu Jan 18, 2007 4:53pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/18/businesspro-usa-economy-dc-idUSN1844644820070118

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - A series of reports on Thursday 
implied the U.S. economy was regaining its vigor at the 
beginning of 2007 without generating a spike in inflation. 

  Not only was there an unexpected pickup in new-home 
building in December but the pace of January business activity 
in the Philadelphia area also picked up and new claims for 
unemployment pay dropped to an 11-month low last week.  Nonetheless, the Labor Department said core consumer 
prices, which exclude food and energy costs, rose by a 
relatively tame 0.2 percent in December after being flat in 
November. The overall Consumer Price Index was up 0.5 percent 
after also being unchanged in the prior month.  An index prepared by the Philadelphia regional Federal 
Reserve bank showed business activity at its highest level 
since August, when concern about a slowdown was growing.  The index, which is taken as an early indicator of the 
health of U.S. manufacturing -- hit 8.3 in January, compared 
with a revised -2.3 in December.  Lynn Reaser, chief economist for Banc of America Capital 
Management in Boston, said the Philadelphia Fed report only 
confirmed that the economy was on such solid ground that there 
were unlikely to be any interest-rate cuts soon.
  FORGET RATE CUTS  "The bond market will see this as another sign that the 
economy is growing at a better-than-expected pace and will 
continue to dim the prospects of an easing by the Fed, at least 
in the near-term," Reaser said.  Prices for debt securities were up across the board. The 
benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note gained 7/32 of a point to 
yield 4.76 percent, down from 4.79 percent on Wednesday. Prices 
for 30-year bonds rose 14/32 and yielded 4.85 percent compared 
with 4.87 percent on Wednesday.  In other positive news, oil prices briefly dipped below $50 
a barrel for the first time since May 2005 as U.S. crude oil 
stockpiles grew. That potentially means lower production costs 
for U.S. industry and less pressure on consumer prices.  But stock prices fell, partly because of disappointing 
earnings outlooks for high-tech companies like Apple Inc. 
( AAPL.O ) and semiconductor equipment maker Lam Research Corp. 
( LRCX.O ). Cheaper oil prices hurt Exxon Mobil ( XOM.N ) and 
ConocoPhillips ( COP.N ).  The Dow Jones industrial average ended down 9.22 points at 
12,567.93 while the Nasdaq composite index shed 36.21 points to 
close at 2,443.21.
  ENERGY A KEY FACTOR  Energy was the main reason that consumer prices climbed in 
December. Energy prices rose 4.6 percent after a 0.2 percent 
fall in November and bigger drops in September and October but 
that should abate as world oil prices ease.  "The latest consumer inflation report indicated that core 
consumer inflation is gradually dissipating following its 
early-year bulge," said Peter Kretzmer, senior economist for 
bank of America in New York.  For the full year 2006, consumer prices increased by 2.5 
percent, an improvement over 2005 when they rose 3.4 percent.  A Commerce Department report said housing starts 
unexpectedly climbed 4.5 percent in December to a seasonally 
adjusted annual rate of 1.642 million units from November's 
1.572 million.  "The housing starts is a weather story," said Keith Hembre, 
chief economist with FAF Advisors in Minneapolis. "I wouldn't 
take it as conclusive evidence that the housing downturn is 
over in a sustained manner."  For all of 2006, starts totaled 1.8 million, down 12.9 
percent from 2005 for the biggest annual decline in 15 years.  In testimony on Capitol Hill, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke 
avoided any reference to the interest-rate outlook. But he said 
it was important for the government to get a grip on its 
tax-and-spend policies before a bulge in retiring "baby 
boomers" pushes up Social Security and Medicare costs.  Otherwise, the country could face a fiscal crisis that 
would force either big spending cuts or sharp tax rises.  The Fed is universally expected to keep interest rates on 
hold when its policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee 
gathers on January 30-31, a view reinforced by the economic 
data and by recent remarks from policy-makers.  "I think that we are well positioned where we are," St. 
Louis Fed Bank President William Poole told reporters on 
Wednesday before addressing an audience of financial analysts.  Jobs seemed relatively plentiful.  The Labor Department said the number of Americans filing 
new claims for jobless benefits dropped by a surprisingly large 
8,000 last week to 290,000, lowest since last January.  (Additional reporting by  Glenn Somerville , Patrick Rucker 
and Mark Felsenthal in Washington)