-- Vornado team makes $21.6 bln bid for Equity Office
-- By  Jessica Hall
-- Thu Jan 18, 2007 12:40am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/18/businesspro-equityoffice-vornado-bid-dc-idUSN1736624620070118

 

 PHILADELPHIA  (Reuters) - Vornado Realty Trust ( VNO.N ) and 
two real estate veterans have submitted a $21.6 billion 
takeover bid for Equity Office Properties Trust EOP.N in a 
move to wrest the company from its current suitor. 

  The group, which includes Barry Sternlicht of Starwood 
Capital Group Global LLC and Neil Bluhm of Walton Street 
Capital LLC, said its proposal offers a 7.2 percent premium 
over Equity Office's $20 billion agreement to be acquired by 
private equity firm Blackstone Group BG.UL.  The unsolicited offer, which hinges on several conditions, 
is valued at $52 per share in cash and Vornado stock, the 
bidding group said. That compares with Blackstone's all-cash 
deal valued at $48.50 per share.  Equity Office confirmed that it received the proposal, and 
said its board of trustees would consider it as soon as 
practicable.  It added that the board has not changed its recommendation 
for the Blackstone transaction. A meeting for shareholders to 
vote on that offer remains scheduled for February 5, it said.  Equity Office also said there could be no assurance that 
the group would make a binding proposal.  Blackstone's planned purchase of Equity Office would mark 
the largest-ever acquisition of a real estate investment trust 
and one of the largest leveraged buyouts ever. Including debt, 
the Blackstone deal is valued at $36 billion. On the same 
basis, the Vornado bid is worth $39.2 billion.  The bidding frenzy for Equity Office continues a spate of 
mergers in the real estate sector over the past year. Global 
real estate mergers reached a record $416.7 billion in 2006, up 
67 percent on 2005, according to data provider Dealogic.  Vornado said its proposal would create the largest office 
real estate investment trust in the United States. Vornado 
plans to acquire about half of Equity Office's assets in major 
markets on the east and west coasts, while Starwood and Walton 
would acquire the remaining assets.
  BIDDING WAR?  "We think the likelihood that Blackstone comes back with an 
offer that's got an equivalent value ... is about 50 percent," 
said John Orrico, portfolio manager at the Arbitrage Fund, 
which has a long position in Equity Office stock.  Equity Office shares closed at $50.94, up $1.09 or 2 
percent. The stock has been trading above the value of the 
Blackstone offer since last week when media reports said 
Sternlicht and others were weighing a rival offer for the 
company.  "Blackstone has an advantage from the standpoint of 
timing," Orrico said.  The offer just one day before Equity Office bondholders 
must decide whether to tender their holdings under a compromise 
reached last week with the real estate company.  "A tentative proposal relying upon the potential issuance, 
many months from now, of more than $10 billion in stock trading 
at near record prices is inferior and carries vastly more risk 
than Blackstone's all cash deal closing in approximately two 
weeks," Blackstone said.  Vornado said it would fund the deal with about $13.4 
billion of equity, consisting of Vornado shares and units 
valued at $10.6 billion, and about $2.8 billion in cash 
provided by equity contributions and $25.8 billion in debt.  It said its financing sources included Lehman Brothers, 
JPMorgan, Barclays Capital, UBS Securities and RBS Greenwich 
Capital. The offer is subject to a review of Equity Office's 
financial records, Vornado said.  "We have a lot of questions we have to get answered before 
we know whether the $52 is real; whether the stock portion of 
the deal is collared, or to some extent investors are given 
some protection in terms of the value of Vornado shares not 
declining," Orrico said.  Although Equity Office was prevented from soliciting bids 
after its agreement with Blackstone, it may respond to 
unsolicited offers. Blackstone would have the right to match 
any new offer.  If Equity Office ultimately accepts a rival bid, it must 
pay Blackstone a termination fee of $200 million, according to 
their merger agreement.  (Additional reporting by  Sinead Carew ,  Mark McSherry  and 
 Ilaina Jonas  in New York)