-- Merrill Lynch profits rise 68 pct
-- By  Tim McLaughlin
-- Thu Jan 18, 2007 12:41pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/18/businesspro-merrilllynch-results-dc-idUSWEN236420070118

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc. MER.N, said 
on Thursday quarterly profit rose 68 percent, trouncing Wall 
Street estimates on a surge in debt and equity underwriting and 
gains from private equity investments. 

  Despite record results, Merrill Lynch shares were 14 cents 
down at $96.67 at midday, as investors weighed whether the 
brokerage could keep the momentum going through 2007.  "We are somewhat concerned that the private equity gains 
and associated banking fees windfall that Merrill experienced 
... will be challenging to repeat and slower to develop in 
future quarters," Goldman Sachs analyst William Tanona said.  Otherwise, Tanona said Merrill's results were one of Wall 
Street's more impressive beats.  Investors had plenty to cheer: a 40 percent boost in the 
quarterly dividend, $22 billion in new money from private 
clients and a bulging pipeline for investment banking deals.  Merrill Lynch's total net revenue soared 27 percent, to 
$8.6 billion, as revenue from principal transactions, including 
private equity deals, more than tripled to $2.2 billion. One 
such deal was the company's investment in car rental company 
Hertz Global Holdings Inc., which went public last year.  Michael Mayo, an analyst at Prudential Equity Group, said 
in a research note that Merrill Lynch also was helped by the 
return of individual investors plowing money into the stock 
market. As a result, revenue at its private client business 
rose 13 percent in the quarter, Mayo said.  That unit also added 720 financial advisers during the 
year. Those numbers are growing at a faster clip outside the 
United States.  Adam Compton, director and head of research for U.S. 
financials at RCM Global Investors in San Francisco, said 
Merrill Lynch, "had a monster quarter for debt and equity 
underwriting."  "The fact that they continue to build up trading and 
capital markets revenues is a positive," Compton added. "They 
haven't stumbled, even though they were late to the game."  Merrill Lynch's fourth-quarter earnings were $2.3 billion, 
or $2.41 a share, up from $1.4 billion, or $1.41 a share, in 
the year-earlier period.  Analysts, on average, had been looking for earnings of 
$1.92 a share, according to Reuters Estimates.  Merrill Lynch's investment banking revenue rose 41 percent, 
to $1.3 billion, on increased debt and equity underwriting. 
That more than offset a year-over-year decline in merger and 
acquisition activity.  "At the end of 2006, our pipeline stood at an all-time 
period end record," Merrill Lynch Chief Financial Officer Jeff 
Edwards told analysts on a conference call. "It was up 
meaningful from the end of both the third quarter and the end 
of last year."  Wall Street's investment banking boom has made some 
investors cautious about the future.  "People like us who are value oriented are looking at this 
and saying, 'There's not an awful lot of upside to go,"' said 
Marshall Front, chairman of Front Barnett Associates in 
Chicago. "... If there's a downturn in the market, there could 
be an adverse impact on investment banking activity."  (Additional reporting by  Dan Wilchins  in New York)