-- Ford executive gives up use of jet after criticism
-- 
-- Thu Jan 18, 2007 3:13pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/18/businesspro-ford-plane-dc-idUSN1848227220070118

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - The head of Ford Motor Co.'s ( F.N ) 
money-losing North American operations on Thursday told 
employees that he had given up use of a corporate jet for 
personal travel, an expensive benefit that had come under fire. 

  Mark Fields, Ford's president of the Americas, had been 
granted personal use of a company jet under the terms of an 
employment contract signed when he took over responsibility for 
Ford's restructuring in late 2005.  Fields trips from Detroit to his home in Florida became 
controversial in recent weeks after the provision in his 
contract was highlighted by a Detroit television station and 
challenged at a time when the automaker is losing billions and 
slashing jobs.  The cost of flying Fields for the fourth quarter of 2005 
was $214,479, according to a proxy statement filed by Ford with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission in April. The automaker 
has not yet disclosed the cost for 2006.  In 2005, Fields and then-Chief Executive Bill Ford Jr. were 
the only Ford executives permitted to use the company aircraft 
for personal travel.  Fields, 45, told Ford employees in a Webcast on Thursday 
that he would no longer use a corporate jet for personal trips, 
a company spokesman said.  "He has made a decision not to use company aircraft for 
personal travel," said Ford spokesman Tom Hoyt. "He did not 
want that issue or any other issue to distract the North 
American team."  Hoyt said Fields would use commercial aircraft to fly from 
Detroit to his permanent home in Florida and the company would 
pay for his flight.  Fields's use of a company jet was featured in a series of 
reports on automotive executive benefits by WXYZ-TV in Detroit 
late last year and became the topic of a critical editorial in 
the trade publication Automotive News.  Ford Chief Executive Alan Mulally, who was hired away from 
Boeing Co. ( BA.N ) to head the automaker in September, was also 
recently questioned by Ford dealers about the practice.  Hoyt said the decision to stop using the company plane had 
been a "personal decision" by Fields.  Fields is overseeing a restructuring that calls for the 
closing of 16 plants and cutting of nearly 45,00O workers.  Ford lost $7 billion during the first nine months of 2006 
and further losses are forecast in the October-December period 
quarter and beyond.  By Ford's own estimate, its North American unit will lose 
money until 2009 and run through $17 billion cash in the next 
three years.