-- Chandlers, L.A. billionaires vie for Tribune
-- By  Megan Davies  and  Robert MacMillan
-- Thu Jan 18, 2007 1:47pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/18/businesspro-tribune-bids-dc-idUSN1635075620070118

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Tribune Co.'s TRB.N biggest 
shareholder and a group led by two Los Angeles billionaires 
have submitted rival bids for the company priced at only a 
small premium, reflecting concerns over the future of the 
newspaper industry. 

  Tribune's board now has at least two sharply different, and 
some say underwhelming, bids to consider.  One proposal came from large Tribune shareholder Chandler 
Trusts, which would break the company up by taking the 
newspaper assets private, according to a regulatory filing on 
Thursday.  The other, from billionaires Eli Broad and Ron Burkle, 
takes the form of a leveraged recapitalization, a source 
familiar with the situation told Reuters on Wednesday.  Representatives for Tribune, Burkle and Broad were not 
available for comment. A spokesman for the Chandler Trusts 
declined to comment.  Under pressure from unhappy shareholders worried about 
declining newspaper circulations and weak advertising sales, 
Tribune, which owns the Los Angeles Times and the Chicago Cubs 
baseball team, had invited buyout proposals in an auction that 
closed on Wednesday afternoon.  While the premiums offered were relatively small, there had 
been concern that the auction might not draw any offers at all 
after several private equity firms looked at Tribune and 
decided to pass on the auction.  "Lo and behold, there is a Santa Claus," Benchmark Co. 
analyst Edward Atorino said.  Although few potential buyers have shown interest in making 
big investments in a struggling industry, publishing 
nonetheless offers strong cashflow and prestige for owners.  Neither Tribune bid is as high as what some analysts had 
expected. But Atorino said: "There may be some room for 
negotiation here to squeeze out another buck or two (per 
share)."  The Chandlers' bid, which would separate Tribune's 
publishing and broadcast businesses, values the company at $7.6 
billion, based on $31.70 a share, a 4.5 percent premium to its 
Wednesday closing price.  The Chandlers' said in their filing with the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission that they were "working in 
conjunction with two private equity firms" although they did 
not name them.  The proposal from Broad and Burkle offers a higher 
12-percent premium of $34 a share, according to the unnamed 
source, valuing the company at $8.2 billion.  Shares of Tribune rose nearly 2 percent to $30.87 in New 
York Stock Exchange trade on Thursday.  Some analysts said the bids were not high enough for the 
Tribune board. After all, the stock had hit a year high of 
$34.28 last September, after the company said it would explore 
its options.  "We do not feel the board will find either of these 
proposals very compelling, suggesting it may pursue further 
negotiations to extract more value," Dave Novosel, an analyst 
at Gimme Credit, an independent research service, said in a 
note to clients.
  INFLATED STOCK  In the Chandler proposal, which took the form of a letter 
to Tribune's bankers, the family defended its buyout price by 
stating that stock would be trading today at only $27 a share 
if expectations of a deal had not inflated the shares.  The Chandler proposal calls for shareholders to get $19.30 
in cash and all the outstanding stock of a new company that 
would contain Tribune's broadcasting business. The newspaper 
business, the weaker of the divisions, would be controlled by 
the Chandlers. Their bid expires on January 31.  "The spin-off of Tribune Broadcasting as a separate company 
will unlock substantial value for Tribune stockholders other 
than the Chandler Trusts and is an important component of our 
overall proposal," said the letter, signed by William Stinehart 
Jr., a co-trustee for the trusts and a Tribune board member.  Acquiring the newspapers would mark an unexpected return to 
publishing for the Chandlers. The family owned and ran the Los 
Angeles Times for more than a century before selling it, along 
with Times Mirror Co., to Tribune in 2000 for $8.3 billion.  Burkle and Broad's offer is made up of a $27 dividend and 
equity valued at $7 a share. They propose to put $500 million 
of their cash into Tribune in exchange for about 30 percent of 
the newspaper and broadcasting group, the source said.  Existing management would run the company, but Burkle and 
Broad may take board seats. As there would be no change of 
control, such a deal would be completed more quickly than a 
pure takeover, the source said. Tribune would continue to be 
publicly traded.  Grocery magnate Burkle owns private equity firm Yucaipa. 
Broad founded home builder KB Home ( KBH.N ).  (Additional reporting by  Paul Thomasch )