-- NETeller quits U.S. after illegal gambling arrests
-- By  Pete Harrison
-- Thu Jan 18, 2007 4:59am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/18/businesspro-neteller-trading-dc-idUSL1868020720070118

 

 LONDON  (Reuters) - British money transfer firm NETeller Plc 
NLR.L closed its U.S. Internet gambling services on Thursday, 
wiping out over 65 percent of its business, after two of the 
group's founders were arrested there this week. 

  NETeller is the latest victim in a U.S. crackdown on online 
gaming, which began with the arrest of BETonSPORTS BSS.L 
chief executive David Carruthers in Texas last July.  NETeller's two founders, Canadians Stephen Lawrence, 46, 
and John Lefebvre, 55, have been charged with handling billions 
of dollars in illegal gambling proceeds.  Both face a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison.  "The operations linked to U.S. gambling account for about 
65 to 70 percent of sales," said a source close to the company.  NETeller said that after the United States effectively 
banned online gaming in November, it had experienced slowing 
fourth quarter growth.  Online gaming giants such as PartyGaming PRTY.L and 
Sportingbet SBT.L pulled out immediately, but privately-owned 
rivals like Pokerstars, Full Tilt Poker and Bodog carried on 
taking wagers illegally, often using NETeller to process their 
payments.  NETeller has always said it was waiting to see the detail 
of the regulations before making a decision. It had its shares 
suspended on Tuesday after the two founders were arrested on 
Monday -- Lawrence in the U.S. Virgin Islands and Lefebvre in 
Malibu, California.  "Today's withdrawal from the U.S. market by NETeller is the 
culmination of months of careful planning," NETeller said in 
its statement on Thursday.
  NEW FOCUS  Online gaming companies have been doing business for many 
years in the United States, where the law was discouraging but 
ambiguous until a ban in November. They were usually listed in 
London and located in offshore jurisdictions like Antigua and 
Costa Rica.  Money transfer companies like NETeller, based in the Isle 
of Man and traded publicly in Britain, allow gambling companies 
to transfer money collected from U.S. gamblers to bank accounts 
outside the United States.  U.S. prosecutors said NETeller processed more than $7.3 
billion in transactions in 2005 and more than 95 percent of its 
revenue from transfers involved Internet gambling.  Most online gaming executives and founders have avoided 
traveling to the United States since the arrest of David 
Carruthers and since Sportingbet's chairman Peter Dicks was 
arrested in New York in September.  NETeller's Lawrence and Lefebvre, who founded the company 
in 1999, did not heed the warnings of other executives.  Lawrence resigned as a non-executive director in October 
2006 after stepping down as non-executive chairman in May. 
Lefebvre resigned as a non-executive director in December 2005.  Lawrence holds a 5.91 percent stake of NETeller through his 
investment vehicle Corvina, while Lefebvre holds 5.54 percent 
of the company through Eagle Medallion Fortress.  NETeller said on Thursday: "These decisions will allow the 
group to focus on opportunities available in the growing 
markets of Europe, Asia and the Americas outside of the United 
States."