-- GE to buy Abbott diagnostics units for $8.13 billion
-- By  Scott Malone  and  Julie Steenhuysen
-- Thu Jan 18, 2007 5:32pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/18/businesspro-generalelectric-abbott-dc-idUSWEN240120070118

 

 BOSTON/CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Continuing a torrid pace of 
deal-making, diversified conglomerate General Electric Co. 
( GE.N ) said on Thursday it will buy two of Abbott Laboratories 
Inc.'s ( ABT.N ) diagnostics business units for $8.13 billion in 
cash. 

  GE said it would buy Abbott's primary in-vitro diagnostics 
businesses and its Point-of-Care diagnostics business. Abbott's 
molecular diagnostics and diabetes-care businesses are not part 
of the transaction.  Healthcare is one of GE's faster-growing businesses and an 
area of focus at a time there are concerns that the broader 
U.S. economy is slowing. The company's healthcare unit 
accounted for 14.2 percent of GE profits and 9.9 percent of 
revenue through the first nine months of 2006.  GE, the world's second-largest company by market 
capitalization, has been quite active on the deal front through 
the first weeks of 2007. Including the Abbott deal, the 
Fairfield, Connecticut-based company has disclosed plans for 
$14.83 billion worth of takeovers.  Its other targets this year are the aerospace business of 
Britain's Smiths Group Plc ( SMIN.L ) and oil and gas fields 
equipment maker Vetco Gray.  A source had said previously that GE is in talks to sell 
its GE Plastics unit, which has been a drag on its results over 
the past year. GE has declined to comment on the possible 
Plastics talks.  The Abbott deal is expected to close in the first half of 
2007. The businesses GE is buying are expected to generate 
about $2.7 billion in revenue in 2006.  GE is due to report 2006 financial results tomorrow. 
Analysts expect full-year revenue to come in at $162.87 
billion, according to Reuters Estimates.  Abbott said the deal would be neutral to 2007 earnings per 
share before items and accretive after that. GE said the deal 
would be accretive to earnings.
  FIVE YEAR CHASE  Joe Hogan, president and chief executive of GE Healthcare 
told Reuters GE had been pursuing the deal for five years.  "We've always wanted a broader diagnostics platform," he 
said. "The global side of this business is growing very well."  He added that while GE Healthcare is "always acquisitive," 
it would likely pause before seeking other deals.  "We would like to digest what we have here right now," 
Hogan said. "This is such a large deal."  Miles White, chairman and CEO of Abbott, said: "As part of 
GE, Abbott's core diagnostics and point-of-care businesses will 
be powerfully positioned to sustain and extend their market 
success."  The news was disclosed after the close of normal trading. 
Abbott shares closed up $1.24, or 2.4 percent, to $52.79 and GE 
shares gained 2 cents to $38. Both trade on the New York Stock 
Exchange.  JP Morgan analyst Michael Weinstein, in a note to clients, 
said the diabetes and molecular diagnostics businesses -- which 
Abbott is keeping -- are the two highest growth areas in 
Abbott's diagnostics portfolio.  GE is expanding its healthcare unit into the so-called 
in-vitro diagnostics space. The segment includes a wide range 
of lab-based tests.  The GE-Abbott deal follows a similar deal last year by 
German conglomerate Siemens AG ( SIEGn.DE ), which bought the 
diagnostics division of drugs and chemicals group Bayer AG 
BAYG.DE for $1.86 billion.