-- UPDATE 3-Equity Office shareholder favors Vornado bid
-- 
-- Thu Jan 18, 2007 4:20pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/18/equityoffice-shareholder-idUSN1846097820070118

 

  (Adds details, closing stock prices) 

  By  Mark McSherry NEW YORK  Jan 18 (Reuters) - A $21.6 billion bid for Equity
Office Properties Trust led by Vornado Realty Trust won support
from a major Equity Office shareholder on Thursday, boosting
the Vornado group's chances of acquiring the largest owner of
U.S. office buildings outside the federal government.  Asset manager Cohen & Steers, which controls about 8
percent of Equity Office stock, said it favors an offer for the
real estate investment trust from the Vornado ( VNO.N ) group
over an agreement Equity Office EOP.N has to be acquired by
private equity firm Blackstone Group [BG.UL].  Blackstone's planned $20 billion purchase of Equity Office
would mark the largest-ever acquisition of a real estate
investment trust (REIT) and one of the largest leveraged
buyouts ever. Vornado said its proposal would create the
largest office REIT in the United States.  "I think that it (Vornado's) is a far superior bid than the
Blackstone bid," said Martin Cohen, co-chief executive of Cohen
& Steers.  The Vornado group said its unsolicited offer, which hinges
on several conditions, is valued at $52 per share in cash and
Vornado stock. Blackstone's all-cash deal is valued at $48.50
per share.  "Though the Blackstone bid is cash, this (Vornado's) is a
combination of cash and stock in a company that is going to
become a world-beater with respect to the office business
worldwide," Cohen said in an interview.  "I'm not sure that this is a bid that anybody can top,
particularly because of the nature of the players here. They
are probably the smartest people in the business."  Vornado and two real estate veterans submitted their
takeover bid for Equity Office on Wednesday in a move to wrest
the company from Blackstone.  The Vornado group includes Barry Sternlicht of Starwood
Capital Group Global LLC and Neil Bluhm of Walton Street
Capital LLC.  Equity Office has recommended the Blackstone transaction.
Shareholders are scheduled to vote on the Blackstone offer on
Feb. 5.  Equity Office and Blackstone were not immediately available
for comment. Equity Office shares closed up 37 cents, or 0.7
percent, at $51.31 on Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange.
Vornado shares fell $2.65, or 2.2 percent, to $199.90.  FRENZY  Including debt, the Blackstone deal is valued at $36
billion. On the same basis, the Vornado bid is worth roughly
$39 billion.  Vornado plans to acquire about half of Equity Office's
assets in major markets on the East and West Coasts, while
Starwood and Walton would acquire the remaining assets.  "Their (Vornado's) ability to manage assets and to wring
out profits from the property portfolio is really unparalleled
in the industry," said Cohen.  "As an Equity Office holder, I'm saying I've got $48.50
versus $52, so I'm better off on a nominal basis and then that
$52 I think could become more because I've got upside in the
Vornado stock part of the deal," Cohen added.  If Equity Office ultimately accepts a rival bid, it must
pay Blackstone a termination fee of $200 million, according to
their merger agreement.  Asked what it would take from Blackstone to change his
mind, Cohen replied: "They would have to go up $3.50 a share
just to match the Vornado offer and I'm still not sure that
that would be superior. I wonder how that higher bid would be
financed."  Cohen concluded: "From a Blackstone point of view, a higher
bid requires either a lower return on investment and/or a
higher level of leverage, so I think that might add some
uncertainty to their ability to raise their bid."  Founded by real estate magnate Sam Zell in 1976, Equity
Office in 2001 became the first REIT to join the Standard &
Poor's 500 index  .SPX .  The bidding frenzy for Equity Office continues a spate of
mergers in real estate. Global real estate mergers reached a
record $416.7 billion in 2006, up 67 percent on 2005, according
to data provider Dealogic.







