-- UPDATE 5-LSE fortifies Nasdaq defence with share buyback
-- 
-- Thu Jan 18, 2007 1:04pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/18/lse-nasdaq-idUSL1890586320070118

 

   (Adds Nasdaq statement in paragraph 3) 

  By  Mark Potter  and Louise Heavens LONDON  Jan 18 (Reuters) - The London Stock Exchange ( LSE.L )
said it would return as much as 250 million pounds ($492
million) to investors as it seeks to persuade them to reject a
hostile bid from U.S. rival Nasdaq Stock Markets ( NDAQ.O ).  As the lengthy battle for the exchange nears a close, the
LSE on Thursday fortified its defence with a bullish forecast
for volume growth on its SETS electronic trading system, saying
it expected the average number of trades per day on the platform
to leap 180 percent to 480,000 in its 2008 financial year.  The LSE has until Friday to announce its full defence and
Nasdaq then has until Jan. 27 to make final changes to its
offer. The U.S. exchange however said later on Thursday that it
still sees no reason to raise its bid.  Europe's biggest stock market is battling a hostile
1,243-pence-a-share cash offer from Nasdaq, which already owns
just under 30 percent of the London exchange operator. Nasdaq's
bid values the LSE at 2.7 billion pounds.   "The board ... continues to recommend strongly that ...
shareholders reject Nasdaq's wholly inadequate offer," the LSE
said in a circular to shareholders.   Andrew Mitchell, an analyst at Fox-Pitt, Kelton, said: "The
SETS forecast is quite punchy. It would encourage people to
focus on the upper end of the range for stand-alone value which
is at around the 1,150p a share level."  Bridgewell Securities analyst Katrina Preston said the share
buyback programme would be welcomed by investors but was
unlikely to change anyone's mind.  "It was a rabbit they were expected to pull out of the hat,"
she said.  Analysts are divided over whether the LSE will succumb to
Nasdaq's existing bid. Its shares are trading well above the
current offer, signalling that some investors expect improved
terms, and U.S. investor Samuel Heyman has built up a stake of
over 10 percent, largely above the Nasdaq offer price.  
  VOLUMES UP, FEES DOWN  LSE shares climbed 0.38 percent to 1,316 pence.  Mamoun Tazi, an analyst at Man Financial, said the LSE's
buyback raised the enterprise value of the exchange, making it
more difficult for Nasdaq to raise what is already a prohibitive
level of debt capital.  "The probability of Nasdaq winning this bid has decreased on
the back of this defence document," Tazi said.  Moody's Investors Service said it was considering cutting
its credit ratings on the LSE, because the buyback would cause a
"deterioration in leverage and debt servicing ratios".  The rating agency said any downgrade of LSE Plc's A2 credit
rating, and the Baa1 rating on its parent LSE Group, was likely
to be just one notch but a successful bid by Nasdaq would
probably cause a "multi-notch downgrade" -- potentially sending
the ratings to junk status.  The LSE operator has already returned cash to shareholders
to head off a previous bid from Australia's Macquarie Bank
MBL.AX. Sources familiar with the matter told Reuters last
week it was planning a further share buyback programme.  The LSE has long been a takeover target, in part because of
its relatively small market capitalisation compared with rivals.
Its shares have more than trebled over the past two years as it
has received and rejected a string of offers.  Consolidation is picking up among the world's stock
exchanges as they come under pressure from customers to offer
global services and cut fees. Competition is also becoming more
intense, with a group of investment banks planning to create a
pan-European equity trading platform this year.   In response to such competition, the LSE announced plans on
Wednesday to cut tariffs.  "Today's revised SETS forecast, together with the recently
announced tariff changes, support a compelling value creation
story," Chief Executive Clara Furse said in the circular.  Bridgewell's Preston said the SETS volume forecast, if
proved correct, would largely offset the impact on revenues from
Wednesday's tariff cuts.  "Management remains confident of its ability to offset
pricing pressure with volume increases, (however) we remain more
sceptical," she wrote in a research note, keeping a "neutral"
rating on LSE shares.
 (Additional reporting by  Quentin Webb  and  Mathieu Robbins )





