-- Brazil Sambas Into Olympian Joys, Challenges: Alexandre Marinis
-- Alexandre Marinis
-- 2009-10-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-10-05/brazil-sambas-into-olympian-joys-challenges-alexandre-marinis.html

          
          
             It’s time to develop a taste for
caipirinhas, Brazil’s national cocktail, and to learn how to
samba. Unless you are an Olympic athlete, that’s most of what
you need to know to prepare for the 2016 Olympic Games, which on
Friday were awarded to Rio de Janeiro.  
 For the first time, the  International Olympic Committee  has
chosen a South American city to host the Olympics.  
 Rio’s victory over richer, more developed places --
Chicago, Tokyo and Madrid -- continues a welcome trend of
acknowledging the growing importance of developing countries.
The World Cup next year will be hosted by South Africa and in
2014 it will be held in Brazil.  
 The IOC’s choice sent an emotional jolt through the
country.  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , Brazil’s charismatic
president who enjoys an 81 percent approval rating and who
worked hard to support Rio’s bid, cried when the vote was
announced. Some 30,000 people celebrated on Copacabana Beach.  
 The games present a tremendous opportunity for Brazil. The
Olympics will give Brazilians a huge shot of self-confidence and
boost the country’s tourism industry and Rio’s public
transportation system. It’s also an opportunity to counter the
violent imagery of drug lords, gang murders and grinding poverty
realistically captured in films such as  “City of God ” (2002).
Those scenes have replaced postcard images of beaches and
mountains that used to seduce people around the world.  
 Military Maneuvers  
 It would be a mistake to skip a trip to the 2016 Games due
to concerns about safety. Rio has hosted large international
gatherings such as the  1992 Earth Summit  and the 2007 Pan
American Games. When the world’s attention is on them,
Brazilians don’t take chances. During these types of events, law
enforcement is shifted from the local police, who don’t exactly
enjoy a reputation for moral rectitude.  
 Instead, Brazil’s military runs security, sporting assault
weapons and tanks. If you think Rio’s drug kingpins are crazy
enough to conduct business as usual under those conditions,
think again.  
 It’s worth noting also that Rio hasn’t been subject to
terrorist attacks like those that sadly hit Madrid and London,
where the 2012 Olympics will be held.  
 Challenges Abound  
 The greatest challenge for Rio and Brazil probably isn’t
the Olympics itself, but its aftermath. Is the country capable
of doing anything to improve the life of millions of slum kids
living in Rio’s favelas, which climb the mountainsides just
blocks away from fashionable neighborhoods like Ipanema? Besides
making a few extra bucks by juggling tennis balls at busy
intersections, will their lives change dramatically because of
this event? Probably not.  
 Regardless of which city hosts the Olympics, some things
are certain.  
 The event will cost three times more than originally
budgeted. The estimated cost of the 2016 games is 25.9 billion
reais ($14.5 billion). Still, lack of money won’t be an issue.
Brazil’s monetary authority can simply print more money if
necessary. That’s no different from what the world’s developed
nations are doing.  
 Architectural white elephants will dot the landscape.
Stadiums, gymnasiums, cycling centers, athlete dorms and so much
more infrastructure will be little-used eyesores as soon as the
closing ceremony concludes.  
 Athletes may take home medals, but politicians and
politically connected business people are the ones who really
achieve success at any Olympics.  
 Collective Society  
 Finally, don’t expect Brazil to experience a home court
advantage and win buckets of gold medals.  
 Brazilians aren’t a greedy bunch and they are always happy
to please foreigners.  
 Medal counts tend to favor individual performances, like
the ones U.S. swimmer  Michael Phelps  gave on his way to winning
a record eight gold medals at the Beijing Olympics.  
 Brazil is too much of a collective society to cultivate
stars who excel as lone performers in events like swimming and
gymnastics. Brazil’s strengths are team sports like soccer,
volleyball and basketball.  
 It is rare to see a Brazilian athlete turn to the camera,
pound his chest and say he’s competing to win gold, such as
swimmer Cesar Cielo Filho did before breaking the world record
in the 100-meter freestyle last July in Rome. Perhaps Cielo will
teach other Brazilian athletes, especially those who don’t have
the opportunity to practice in the U.S. as he does, to do the
same.  
 That might be the most important legacy of Rio’s 2016
party.  
 ( Alexandre Marinis , political economist and founding
partner of Mosaico Economia Politica, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Alexandre Marinis in Sao Paulo at 
 amarinis1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        