-- Chavez, Lula, Obama Make Honduras Unstable: Alexandre Marinis
-- Alexandre Marinis
-- 2009-10-06T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-10-05/chavez-lula-obama-make-honduras-unstable-alexandre-marinis.html

          
          
             If Honduras descends into civil war,
we can thank Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  and credit
Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva with an assist.  
 Pushing the Central American nation to the brink is
precisely what Chavez accomplished when he persuaded Lula to
welcome ousted Honduran President  Manuel Zelaya  inside the
Brazilian embassy in Tegucigalpa, the capital, last month.  
 Reasonable people can argue whether Zelaya deserved to be
tossed out of office. The fact is his ouster was legal,
according to a detailed  report  issued by the U.S. Congressional
Research Service.  
 The Honduran Congress has the authority to rebuke the
president and decide constitutional intent, the report says.
“In the case against Zelaya, the National Congress interpreted
the power to disapprove of the conduct of the president to
encompass the power to remove him from office, based on the
results of a special, extensive investigation,” it states.  
 Chavez and Lula engaged in wise-guy diplomacy. Their
actions violated international laws by helping Zelaya enter the
country illegally. And they disrupted the economy of Central
America’s second-poorest country, which was already reeling from
the global economic crisis.  
 Besides acting unethically, the two Latin leaders showed
they aren’t serious diplomats. We’ll see if this inaugurates a
new era in which Brazil and Venezuela throw their weight around
and increasingly interfere with their neighbors’ politics. If
so, they will resemble the U.S., which Latin leaders have long
criticized for butting into the region’s internal affairs by
propping up or taking out national leaders.  
 Rough Transition  
 This much is already clear: Hondurans now seem farther away
from a safe transition to a new democratically elected leader
who adheres to the country’s constitution.  
 Don’t expect Zelaya to regain the presidency with full
powers before the national election scheduled for Nov. 29. Less
than 50 percent of Hondurans support their former leader and his
approval rating has tumbled, according to a CID-Gallup  poll 
taken two days after Zelaya was ousted in late June. Hondurans
are evenly split about whether he deserved to be forcibly
removed from office.  
 Zelaya provoked his opponents by trying to bend the
constitution so he could seek another term as president. He was
dragged out of the presidential palace in his pajamas and flown
out of the country.  
 Sneaking In  
 His ambition endures, which is why Zelaya snuck back into
the country last month in advance of the national election. He
had tried unsuccessfully to re-enter Honduras in the three
months since he was booted out. His most recent attempt might
have failed too if the Brazilians hadn’t welcomed him inside
their embassy.  
 By opening the doors to Zelaya, Lula allowed himself and
his country to be used to promote the individual aspirations of
a foreign leader. Zelaya’s situation in Brazil’s embassy is
illegal, according to Jorge Zaverucha, a political scientist who
directs the Center for Study of Coercive Institutions at the
Federal University of Pernambuco in Brazil.  
 Brazilian authorities claim they aren’t violating
international law because they didn’t welcome Zelaya as an
exile. They have refused to define his current political status
by arguing they are simply offering him “humanitarian
shelter.”  
 The 1961 Vienna  Convention  on Diplomatic Relations doesn’t
say that a diplomatic mission should take in a legally deposed
president and let him use the shelter as his political campaign
headquarters.  
 Taking Advantage  
 More important, Article 41 of the convention states that
anyone enjoying the same privileges and immunity as Zelaya in
Brazil’s embassy has “a duty not to interfere in the internal
affairs” of the host country.  
 A leader who disrespected his own country’s constitution
can’t be expected to follow international rules of conduct.  
 Protected by the inviolability of the Brazilian embassy,
which is considered foreign soil in Honduran territory, Zelaya
has given speeches to his followers from inside the mission,
made political phone calls, held numerous media interviews and
even incited a rebellion against the de facto government.  
 In turn, acting president and former head of Honduras’
National Congress,  Roberto Micheletti , has also committed his
share of mistakes. By exiling Zelaya to another country,
Micheletti clearly violated the Honduran constitution.  
 Suspending Civil Rights  
 Then in late September Micheletti ordered military troops
to shut down pro-Zelaya radio and television stations, banned
protests for 45 days and suspended other civil rights. As a
result, Honduras has reached a political dead end.  
 The most obvious way out of the stalemate is for a member
of the international community to mediate an agreement between
the two men to respect the outcome of the election. Achieving
even that modest goal seems difficult at this point.  
 Micheletti is expected to allow members of the Organization
of American States to enter the country this week to attempt to
mediate a solution to the crisis. Meanwhile, Hondurans grow
increasingly indifferent about the coming election. Only 43
percent of eligible voters say they will cast ballots and almost
half believe the elections will be fraudulent.  
 One of Central America’s most unpopular presidents --
second only to Nicaragua’s  Daniel Ortega , another of Chavez’s
pals by the way -- Zelaya knows he can’t win a presidential
election any time soon. Micheletti is just an interim political
figure supported by less than a third of the population and,
thus, unsuited to run for president. Neither man has a stake in
smoothing the way for elections.  
 Making things even worse, President  Barack Obama’s 
administration, which correctly criticized Venezuela and Brazil
for letting Zelaya into Honduras, says it won’t recognize the
scheduled November election unless the political crisis is
resolved.  
 That gives carte blanche to Zelaya. The more turmoil Zelaya
creates, the closer to civil war the country will be.  
 ( Alexandre Marinis , political economist and founding
partner of Mosaico Economia Politica, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Alexandre Marinis in Sao Paulo at 
 amarinis1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        