-- Exxon, Alabama to face off in state supreme court
-- By  Michael Erman
-- Mon Feb 5, 2007 8:39pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/02/06/businesspro-exxon-alabama-dc-idUSN0544265920070206

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Exxon Mobil Corp. ( XOM.N ) is set to 
argue in front of the Alabama Supreme Court on Tuesday that a 
$3.6 billion fraud judgment against the company is 
unconstitutional and should be overturned. 


  Alabama sued Exxon in 1999 claiming the company 
fraudulently underpaid millions of dollars in royalties from 
natural gas wells off the state's coastline.  Two juries agreed the company illegally reduced the their 
payments to the state by claiming inappropriate expenses as 
deductions from their royalties. The juries awarded the state 
compensatory damages as well as billions of dollars in punitive 
damages.  The company plans to argue that the state has not proven 
any fraud on the company's part and that the suit should be 
thrown out.  "The state, for tactical reasons, (has) tried to turn a 
contract dispute into a fraud claim," said Exxon Mobil 
spokeswoman Susan Reeves.  "The jury and the trial court rewarded those tactics with a 
giant punitive damages award. But there was no evidence of 
fraud, and no basis for any punitive damages," she said.  But Alabama is steadfast in its belief that the company 
cheated it out of payments.  "They took families to casinos, paid for uniforms, 
landscaping, promotional T-shirts, you name it, they deducted 
it," according to attorney Jere Beasley, of the law firm 
Beasley, Allen, Crow, Methvin, Portis & Miles, P.C., who 
represents the state.  "They think they are above the law," said Beasley.  In the second trial of the case, a jury handed down $11.8 
billion of punitive damages -- the largest award handed down by 
a jury in 2003. It was later reduced to $3.5 billion by a 
circuit court judge.  If the court does not overturn the charges, the company is 
asking that it reduce the punitive damages against Exxon.  "It is up in the stratosphere right now -- far from 
anything that we feel could be upheld constitutionally," David 
Boyd, the company's outside counsel, said. Boyd is a partner 
with Balch & Bingham in Montgomery, Ala.  Last week, Exxon Mobil reported the largest ever annual 
profit in U.S. history -- $39.5 billion in 2006. Its full year 
revenue was about $377.64 billion, larger than the economy of 
Switzerland, the seventeenth largest economy in the world in 
2005.  Arguments in the case are scheduled to begin at 0900 local 
time (1500 GMT) Tuesday morning.  (Additional reporting by Verna Gates in Alabama)