-- Bernanke: focus on skills to widen opportunity
-- By Steve Jordon
-- Tue Feb 6, 2007 4:13pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/02/06/businesspro-usa-fed-bernanke-dc-idUSN0626057420070206

 

 OMAHA, Nebraska  (Reuters) - Policy-makers should seek to 
expand worker skills but refrain from restricting trade or 
labor flows in efforts to narrow income disparity, U.S. Federal 
Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said on Tuesday. 


  "The challenge for policy is not to eliminate inequality 
per se but rather to spread economic opportunity as widely as 
possible," Bernanke said to the Greater Omaha Chamber of 
Commerce in Omaha, Nebraska.  "Policies that focus on education, job training, and skills 
and that facilitate job search and job mobility seem to me to 
be promising means for moving toward that goal," he added.  Bernanke did not discuss the outlook for interest rates or 
the economy and did not take questions after the speech.  The Fed chairman's remarks come as Democrats, who took 
control of both houses of Congress after November's elections, 
have spotlighted income disparity as a concern and are 
questioning whether U.S. trade agreements have speeded the 
decline of manufacturing industries.  Income inequality has increased in the United States over 
the last three decades, Bernanke said. Income at the 90th 
percentile of wage earners -- those close to the top -- rose 34 
percent between 1979 and 2006, while the wage at the 10th 
percentile rose a scant 4 percent in that period, he said.  Advances in technology may have contributed to pay 
disparity because technology has improved the productivity of 
highly skilled workers more than that of workers at the lower 
end of the spectrum. But he added that this is only one of the 
factors.  At the same time, globalization -- whether in the form of 
expanded trade, the outsourcing of jobs or immigration into the 
United States -- has probably only had a "moderate" effect on 
economic inequality, Bernanke said.  Policy-makers who want to slow income disparity have to 
balance approaches that promote economic growth with measures 
that provide a backstop for workers who lose their jobs as a 
result of changes in the economic landscape, he said.  But while increased trade can cause job losses, it would be 
counterproductive for policy-makers to erect barriers to trade 
or investment, Bernanke said.  "Hindering the adoption of new technologies or inhibiting 
trade flows would do far more harm than good, as technology and 
trade are critical sources of overall economic growth and of 
increases in the standard of living," he said.  Instead, smoothing the way for workers to hold on to health 
and retirement benefits when they change jobs would "reduce the 
costs that individuals and families bear as a result of 
economic change," Bernanke added.