-- Abu Dhabi Said to Invite Sulfur Granulation Plant Bids for Shah Gas Field
-- Anthony DiPaola
-- 2010-06-13T11:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/abu-dhabi-said-to-invite-sulfur-granulation-plant-bids-for-shah-gas-field.html

          
          
             Abu Dhabi’s state-controlled oil
producer is seeking engineering and construction bids to build a
sulfur granulation plant at the Shah natural gas development as
the United Arab Emirates capital looks to boost its fuel supply.  
 The company aims to award a contract in the fourth quarter,
two people with knowledge of the bidding process said. Abu Dhabi
National Oil Co., the state oil and gas producer known as Adnoc,
invited 18 construction firms to bid for the project and is
seeking offers this month, one of the people said.  
 Abu Dhabi is developing its sour, or high-sulfur, gas
reserves as domestic power consumption soars, and has already
awarded most construction contracts related to the project. Sour
gas is more expensive to produce because potentially lethal
sulfur must be separated and processed for sale.  
 Middle Eastern oil producers like the U.A.E., of which Abu
Dhabi is the capital, and Kuwait have been forced to import gas
as the need for fuel exceeds domestic supply. Abu Dhabi, the
U.A.E.’s largest sheikhdom, imports gas from Qatar and is
developing nuclear reactors to meet energy demand, which is
expected to double by 2020, according to government studies.  
 Adnoc aims to start production at Shah by the second or
third quarter of 2014. The state-run producer last month said
Abu Dhabi Gas Development Co., its operating unit for the
project, awarded almost $5.6 billion in engineering and
construction contracts for the Shah deposit.  
 Contracts Awarded  
 Saipem SpA,  Europe’s biggest provider of oilfield services
by market value, won about $3.5 billion in contracts for gas
processing and sulfur recovery at the field, Adnoc said.  Samsung
Engineering Co.  won a separate contract for $1.5 billion to
build utilities and offsite facilities and a group made up of
Tecnicas Reunidas SA and Punj Lloyd Ltd. won a contract to build
gas-gathering facilities. Al-Jaber Group has already built roads
to the desert site under the first work contract awarded.  
 Adnoc aims to turn the sulfur into solid form and ship the
element by rail to the Abu Dhabi coast where it can be loaded on
ships and sold for use as a building material or in fertilizer.
The company abandoned a plan to build a 250-kilometer (155 mile)
pipeline to transport liquid sulfur to the coast after deeming
the technology too demanding and costly.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        