-- Agility, Arabtec, Gulf Finance House, Sahara, Zain: Gulf Equity Preview
-- Zahra Hankir
-- 2010-06-13T05:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/agility-arabtec-gulf-finance-house-sahara-zain-gulf-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following stocks may rise or
fall in Gulf Arab markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and
prices are from the last close.  
 The  Saudi Tadawul All Share Index  gained 2.7 percent and
Dubai’s  DFM General Index  rose 0.1 percent. The  ADX General
Index  lost 0.2 percent to 2,519.92, the lowest level since Dec.
10 and the  Kuwait Stock Exchange Index  slid 0.4 percent. Qatar’s
 measure  rose 0.8 percent.  
 Agility  (AGLTY KK): The Middle East’s largest storage and
logistics company isn’t in talks to sell a stake in Iraq’s Korek
Telecom, said Chairman Tarek Sultan.  
 Separately, the company’s shareholders approved the sale of
bonds and to pay a dividend of 40 fils a share this year. The
shares advanced 2.3 percent to 455 fils.  
      Arabtec Holding PJSC  (ARTC UH): The United Arab Emirates’
biggest builder expects cash flow to improve now that the
government is helping Dubai-based developer Nakheel PJSC pay its
bills to contractors, Chief Financial Officer  Ziad Makhzoumi 
said in Beirut on June 10. The shares retreated 0.5 percent to
1.93 dirhams.  
 Drake & Scull International PJSC  (DSI UH): The board of the
Dubai-based mechanical, electrical and plumbing company
appointed Khalaf Sultan al-Dhaeri as board member. The shares
retreated 1 percent to 82.7 fils.  
 Gulf Finance House EC  (GFH BI): The Bahrain-based
investment bank aims to reach an agreement with creditors by
early July on renegotiated terms for a $100 million loan, Chief
Executive Officer  Ted Pretty  said. The shares were unchanged at
14 cents.  
      Kuwait Projects Co. Holding  (KPROJ KK): The Kuwaiti company
had its issuer rating cut to Baa2 from Baa1 at Moody’s Investors
Service. The outlook remains negative. The shares were unchanged
at 345 fils.  
      Mobile Telecommunications Co.  (ZAIN KK): The company known
as Zain said it will repay a $4 billion loan to foreign banks
and companies after selling its African assets to Bharti Airtel
Ltd. for $10.7 billion, Asharq Al-Awsat reported, citing a
company statement. The shares were unchanged at 1,140 fils.  
 Sahara Petrochemical Co.  (SPC AB): The Saudi Arabian
company is seeking approval from market regulators for a rights
offer that will finance $420 million in expansion projects. The
shares rose 3.9 percent to 21.1 riyals.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        