-- Taiwan, China Hold Third-Round Trade Talks Amid Optimism of June Agreement
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-13T15:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/taiwan-china-hold-third-round-trade-talks-amid-optimism-of-june-agreement.html

          
          
             China and Taiwan held a third round
of talks to strengthen economic and trade ties, reaching a basic
agreement on goods, services and industries chosen for initial
tariff cuts.  
 “We are still working on details, but the basic agreement
has been reached,” Tang Wei, head of Taiwan, Hong Kong and
Macao affairs at China’s Ministry of Commerce, said after talks
in Beijing with  Huang Chih-peng , director-general of Taiwan’s
Bureau of Foreign Trade.  
 An agreement would lower tariffs on more than 200 items
exported from China to Taiwan including car parts,
petrochemicals and machinery, the officials said. The exact
items have yet to be decided, and Tang said he hoped that Taiwan
could export textiles and car parts to China. It would also
allow service industries to compete in the two markets, he said.  
 Taiwan President  Ma Ying-jeou  has been pushing for an
accord to bolster export-dependent Taiwan’s economy after a
Chinese trade agreement with the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations began this year. Ma is also seeking better relations
with the island’s  biggest trading partner  and No. 1 investment
destination.  
 Any accord “will boost market sentiment and confidence,”
 Tony Phoo , an economist at Standard Chartered Plc, said by phone
in Taipei today. Still, “the preferred-tariff treatment won’t
happen at least for the next one to two years.”  
 Improved Ties  
 Cross-strait ties improved after President Ma took office
in May 2008 and abandoned his predecessor’s pro-independence
stance. Ma’s administration has said the Economic Cooperation
Framework Agreement, or ECFA, may be signed this month.  
 “Signing the ECFA is a route that Taiwan must take and it
is a milestone,”  Liu Bih-rong , a professor of political science
at Soochow University in Taipei, said by phone. “It signifies
how the relationship between the two sides has recovered and
more importantly, it will pave the way for more free-trade
agreements and benefits.”  
 Taiwan and China agreed in December to boost cooperation in
fishing, agriculture and industrial goods at the fourth cross-
strait talks as relations reached their warmest in 60 years. In
November, they signed three memoranda of understanding to ease
access to each other’s banking, securities and insurance
industries.  
 ‘Abundant Capital’  
 “Taiwan has abundant capital, advanced production
technology, rich enterprise-management experience and
international sales channels,” China’s Tang said in the opening
remarks. “On the other hand, the mainland has very rich
resources and a lot of labor and huge potential markets.”  
 Trade between the mainland and Taiwan increased 68 percent
in the first four months of 2010 compared with same period last
year, and Taiwan investment rose 44.7 percent, China’s Tang said
today. An agreement would be in “both parties’ interests, so we
have better resource allocation and cooperation,” Tang said.  
 An agreement with China is “vital to Taiwan’s economy,”
 Chiang Pin-kung , chairman of the Taipei-based Straits Exchange
Foundation, said in February. An agreement would help to ensure
Taiwan can compete with regional rivals and may prompt other
nations to agree to similar accords with the island, Chiang
said.  
 North Korea and Taiwan are the only two economies in the
region that haven’t signed trade agreements with China and
Asean, which groups Singapore, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia,
Vietnam, Myanmar, Laos, Cambodia, the Philippines and Brunei.
Taiwan has been unable to join the wave of bilateral and
multilateral free-trade agreements in recent years because China
regards the island as a rebellious province.  
 Taiwan’s Democratic Progressive Party opposes the trade
accord and on Dec. 20 rallied 100,000 people in Taichung city to
protest Ma’s China policies.  
 “Even if the opposition gains power in future, with such a
framework it would be difficult for them to reverse the entire
decision,” said Soochow University’s Liu.  
 -- Henry Sanderson  in Beijing and Weiyi Lim in Taipei. Editors:
 Carey Sargent ,  Philip Sanders   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou has been pushing for an accord to bolster export-dependent Taiwan's economy. Photographer: Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
