-- Al-Qaeda Gunmen Storm Iraqi Central Bank, Kill 15, Wound 50, Army Says
-- Nayla Razzouk
-- 2010-06-13T18:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/al-qaeda-gunmen-storm-iraqi-central-bank-kill-15-wound-50-army-says.html

          
          
             At least 15 people were killed and
50 wounded today as al-Qaeda suicide bombers and gunmen stormed
the Central Bank of Iraq in Baghdad, an army spokesman said.  
 Army troops regained control of the bank after hours of
armed clashes with assailants wearing military uniforms, said
Major General Qassim Atta, spokesman for security forces in
Baghdad.  
 Security forces and civil defense workers were among those
killed, he said in an interview on state-owned al-Iraqiya
television. It was not clear whether the death toll included the
al-Qaeda attackers.  
 The attack came on the eve of the opening session of the
new parliament amid a deadlock over the formation of the
government that’s continued since the March 7 general elections.  
 Violence picked up after the elections produced no clear
winner. U.S. and Iraqi forces have been cracking down on
militants in northern Iraq and say they killed al-Qaeda’s senior
leaders in the country,  Abu Omar al-Baghdadi  and  Abu Ayoub al- Masri .  
 The violence hasn’t reached the levels of 2006 when the
country tipped toward civil war. The U.S. is preparing to cut
its military force in Iraq from about 90,000 to 50,000 by the
end of August with a full withdrawal next year.  
 Today’s attack on the central bank came as employees were
leaving work. An explosive charge blew up a generator near the
bank’s main gate, four suicide bombers then blew themselves up,
and other groups of attackers clashed with bank security forces,
Atta said.  
 “They obviously wanted to target the central bank because
it is an important symbol,” he said. Army forces responded and
“succeeded in returning the central bank under the control of
the security and military forces,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        