-- Tanker Rates to Gain 43% as China Oil Buoys Frontline
-- Alaric Nightingale
-- 2010-06-14T16:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/tanker-rates-poised-to-surge-43-with-china-oil-shipping-buoying-frontline.html

          
          
             Supertanker rates are poised to
surge to a two-year high by December as China’s demand for oil
sends ships the equivalent of 11 extra times around the globe in
a month.  
 The 31 percent jump in China’s imports increased return
journeys for supertankers to about 1.13 million miles in April,
or 284,000 miles more than a year ago, based on customs data and
voyage lengths. Daily rates may reach $100,000 by December, said
 Rikard Vabo , an analyst at Fearnley Fonds ASA, whose November
recommendation to buy shares of Frontline Ltd., the biggest
supertanker operator, earned 49 percent. His prediction for
freight is 43 percent higher than the June 11 price of $70,025.  
 China, the engine of the global economic recovery, is going
further to get oil, with Angola a bigger provider than Saudi
Arabia this year. Longer journeys combined with what the
International Energy Agency says will be record consumption in
2010 are driving shipping demand even as forward freight
agreements show prices will average $44,944 for the third
quarter and $45,466 in the fourth.  
 “China is the U.S. of the 1960s and Japan of the 1970s as
its  thirst for oil  grows,” said  Charlie Fowle , chairman of
London-based shipbroker Galbraith’s Ltd. “As China strengthens
ties with countries such as Angola and Venezuela, in addition to
Middle Eastern suppliers, it increasingly means tighter supply
in the tanker market.”  
 Chinese Expansion  
 The nation’s economy will expand 10.1 percent this year,
more than three times the pace of the U.S., the world’s largest
energy consumer, according to as many as 87 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Fueling that growth will require an extra 669,000
barrels of oil daily, the Paris-based IEA predicts, equal to
more than two additional supertanker cargoes a week.  
 China is already the biggest user of commodities from
copper to coal, spurring a rush for raw materials across the
globe. Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  said in April that China
would lend $20 billion and form a venture to pump crude.
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-controlled oil company,
signed a $10 billion-loan accord and a supply contract last
year. China National Petroleum Corp. has  operations  in 29
countries from Equatorial Guinea to Sudan.  
 Oil purchases from Angola reached 4.29 million metric tons
in April, about 70 percent more than two years earlier, customs
data show. Saudi Arabia supplied 3.09 million tons. The average
journey from Angola to China takes more than 33 days, compared
with 21 days from Saudi Arabia, according to the distances.com
website. Venezuela to China takes almost 40 days.  
 Next Destination  
 Seven supertankers off Angola on June 11 came from Asia,
according to ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg. One
arrived from the Middle East and another from the Caribbean. Two
were signaling China as their next destination, with the rest
yet to declare where they would sail.  
 “China’s craving for energy is by far the biggest
contributor to a continued good supertanker market,” said  Per Mansson , the managing director of shipbroker Nor Ocean Stockholm
AB. “There is an increased interest from Chinese charterers to
find transportation much further away from the Persian Gulf.”  
 Extra days delivering crude, or making the return journey,
are sapping tanker supply as deliveries from yards accelerate.
Fifty-four supertankers joined the fleet last year, the most
since 1976, and another 79 will be added this year, according to
Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s biggest
shipbroker. There are now 527 supertankers, Lloyd’s Register-
Fairplay data show.  
 Oil Demand Slumped  
 Shipping lines ordered vessels as rates on the Saudi
Arabia-to-Japan route, the industry’s benchmark, rose as high as
$177,000 a day in July 2008, before plunging as low as $1,246 by
September last year as oil demand slumped. Crude oil plunged to
$32.40 a barrel in December 2008, after reaching a record
$147.27 five months earlier. Shipping rates were last at
$100,000 in July 2008.  
 Frontline  said last month it needs $31,100 a day to break
even on vessels known in the industry as very large crude
carriers, or VLCCs. The Bermuda-based company had 45 percent of
its fleet trading in the spot market last year, with the balance
on longer-term charters. Frontline will earn $3.09 a share this
year, according to the mean of 20 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. The company reported earnings per share of $1.32 last
year.  
 Frontline Shares  
 Frontline rose 5.70 kroner, or 2.5 percent, to close at
231.70 kroner in Oslo trading today after climbing as high as
233.90 kroner, the highest intraday price since Jan. 6, 2009.
The stock has surged 43 percent this year, the second-largest
gain in Norway’s benchmark  OBX Index , increasing the company’s
market value to 18 billion kroner ($2.8 billion.)  
 Overseas Shipholding Group , the biggest U.S.-based tanker
owner, said in February that it was putting more than 80 percent
of its fleet in the spot market. The New York-based company will
return to profit in the third quarter, ending five consecutive
quarterly losses, analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 While rates rose 73 percent this year, they fell as low as
$22,672 on Feb. 18. Prices averaged $47,111 this quarter, more
than the $28,758 predicted by the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 13 analysts, traders and shipbrokers in April. Rents
slipped 0.5 percent today to $69,706, according to the Baltic
Exchange in London.  
 Crude oil traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange more
than doubled since the end of 2008 and the World Bank said on
June 9 the global economy would expand 3.3 percent this year, up
from a January prediction of 2.7 percent.  
 Global Slowdown  
 A slowdown in global economic growth may damp tanker
prices. International Monetary Fund Deputy Managing Director
 Naoyuki Shinohara  said June 9 the risks to the global economic
outlook have “risen significantly” and policy makers have
limited room to provide support to growth. The Washington-based
World Bank, while raising its forecast, acknowledged that
government budgets were strained.  
 As much as $7.7 trillion was  wiped off  the value of global
equities from mid-April to the end of last month amid mounting
concern that Europe’s debt crisis would curb the region’s
economic growth. China wants to cool real-estate speculation and
the country’s Federation of Logistics and Purchasing reported
June 1 that  manufacturing  expanded at a slower pace in May than
economists surveyed by Bloomberg estimated.  
 “China has been good for the VLCC trade, but these trade
surges can’t continue,” said  Martin Stopford , managing director
of Clarkson Research. “You get a shift in regional trading
patterns, then they tend to slow or reverse.”  
 China cut oil imports to the lowest in four months in May,
according to preliminary customs data released June 10.  
 Rig Explosion  
 The tanker fleet won’t be counting on China alone to
bolster rates. The explosion on a rig in the Gulf of Mexico
leased by London-based BP Plc in April caused the worst oil
spill in U.S. history. Increased environmental concerns may
hasten the withdrawal of single-hulled supertankers, deemed by
the European Union in 2003 to be “more accident prone.”  
 Eleven percent of the global supertanker  fleet  is fitted
with a single hull, according to Lloyd’s Register-Fairplay. A
global phase-out started this year and the International
Maritime Organization ban takes full effect in 2015.  
 “Utilization rates are getting to a point where a lot of
these ships are effectively out of the market,” said Jeff
McGee, an analyst at London-based Simpson, Spence & Young Ltd.,
the world’s second-largest shipbroker. Fewer single-hulled ships
competing for business will offset deliveries of new vessels and
the fleet may even shrink this year, he said.  
 Distance Traveled  
 Renewed demand for shipping may also bolster orders for new
vessels. Shipbuilders led by Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the
world’s biggest, won about $700 million of contracts to build
supertankers this year, according to Clarkson Research data.
Shares of the Ulsan, South Korea-based  company  rose 30 percent
in Seoul trading since January, compared with a 0.5 percent
advance in the country’s benchmark  Kospi Index .  
 The most important measure of demand for ships is so-called
ton-miles, or the amount of cargo multiplied by how far the
vessels have to travel, because it aggregates the two main
sources of demand, cargoes and distance, according to Nor
Ocean’s Mansson.  
 The calculation for deliveries to China was determined by
multiplying imports in tons by the distances traveled from each
supplier to the east-coast port of Qingdao. Some countries were
excluded because they may also deliver by land. It assumed all
voyages were by supertankers on return journeys. Oil is also
carried on  smaller ships , some vessels may go to other Chinese
ports or travel to different regions for their next cargoes and
not all carriers will make the return journey empty.  
 “We see China as very, very important for ton-mile in the
future,” said  Erik Folkeson Jensen , an analyst at Lorentzen &
Stemoco AS in Oslo, who expects rates to reach $88,000 before
the end of the year. “China is a large part of the reason why
the tanker market is as good as it is.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaric Nightingale  in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An undated handout photo shows Frontline Ltd.'s "Front Shanghai" supertanker, provided to the media on Jan. 7, 2009. Source: Frontline Ltd. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     This is an undated company handout of the tanker, Sea Force owned by Frontline Ltd. Source: Frontline Ltd. via Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
