-- German Stocks Gain; Pfleiderer, ThyssenKrupp, Salzgitter Rise, Bayer Falls
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-06-14T15:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/arcandor-bmw-deutsche-bank-rwe-tui-pfleiderer-german-equity-preview.html

          
          
             German stocks advanced as a report
showed European industrial production increased more than
economists forecast in April.  
 Siemens AG , Europe’s largest engineering company, gained 4
percent.  Pfleiderer AG  surged 20 percent on a report that it
expects to return to profit next year.  ThyssenKrupp AG ,
Germany’s largest steelmaker, climbed 2.4 percent as metal
prices advanced.  Salzgitter AG  rose 4.4 percent as UBS AG
upgraded the country’s second-biggest steelmaker.  
 The benchmark  DAX Index  rose 1.3 percent to 6,125.00 in
Frankfurt. The gauge is still down 3.3 percent from its April 26
high on concern the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe will spread.
The broader HDAX Index increased 1.4 percent today.  
 “The recent macro data and risk rally have provided some
relief to investors after May’s abysmal performance,”  Alberto Gallo , a New York-based strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
wrote in a note today.  
 Output  in the economy of the 16 nations using the euro rose
0.8 percent from March, the European Union’s statistics office
said. Economists had projected a gain of 0.5 percent, the median
of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg survey showed. From the year-
earlier month, April production jumped 9.5 percent, the biggest
gain since the data were first compiled in 1991.  
 Concerns Overdone  
 Siemens  advanced 4 percent to 77.35 euros. Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Loescher  said the company’s “underlying
commercial performance” shows “we are either level or have
surpassed” General Electric Co., the Financial Times reported,
citing an interview.  
 Concerns over possible contagion from Greece’s financial
crisis have been “overdone,” the newspaper also cited him as
saying.  
 Pfleiderer rose 20 percent to 4.41 euros. The German maker
of laminate flooring expects to return to profit next year as
the company increases prices and markets recover,
Wirtschaftswoche reported, citing Chief Executive Officer  Hans Overdiek .  
 ThyssenKrupp increased 2.4 percent to 21.56 euros as metal
prices advanced on signs of sustained demand in China after
domestic inventories fell for a sixth week.  
 Copper Stockpiles  
 China’s stockpiles of copper dropped 8.8 percent to 139,332
tons last week, the lowest level since the week ended Feb. 19.
Inventories tallied by the London Metal Exchange were at 465,000
tons on June 11, the lowest level this year.  
 Salzgitter rose 4.4 percent to 51.34 euros. UBS upgraded
the European steel industry to “neutral” from “underweight”
and lifted its recommendation on Salzgitter to “neutral” from
“sell.” The brokerage also upgraded to “neutral” from
“sell” the metals trader  Kloeckner & Co. SE , which shares
gained 2.9 percent to 15.55 euros.  
 Infineon Technologies AG , Europe’s second-largest
chipmaker, rose 2.6 percent to 4.94 euros as the Philadelphia
Semiconductor Index gained for a third session.
      Deutsche Post AG  gained 1.4 percent to 12.31 euros.
WirtschaftsWoche reported the German postal service is
accelerating a cost-savings plan in a bid to save 1 billion
euros ($1.2 billion) within a year at its mail unit. The figure
is about five times more than it had previously targeted, the
magazine reported.  
 Solarworld AG  gained 1.8 percent to 10.06 euros. WestLB AG
lifted its recommendation on the solar company to “add” from
“neutral,” saying in a note that “while Germany’s demand
should slow down, visibility has risen that other European
markets are strong enough to compensate for this expected
drop.” The brokerage also upgraded  Q-Cells SE  to “add” from
“neutral” as the company “can regain the trust of its
financing banks, in order to find a solution for refinancing
that is not necessarily a capital increase.” Q-Cells shares
gained 3.2 percent to 5.86 euros.  
 Emerging Economies  
 Bilfinger Berger AG  increased 2.1 percent to 49.02 euros.
Germany’s second-largest construction company is scanning
emerging economies such as India and Turkey for potential
takeover targets to strengthen its industrial services business,
Financial Times Deutschland said, citing board member  Thomas Toepfer .  
 Draegerwerk AG & Co. KGaA  surged 9 percent to 53.41 euros.
The German maker of medical equipment said that due to
“continued positive business development in April and May,” it
expects its full-year 2010 business to progress “better than
previously anticipated.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        