-- Australia's Rudd, Facing Mining-Tax Revolt, Gets Backing for Next Election
-- Jason Scott
-- 2010-06-13T04:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/australia-s-rudd-facing-mining-tax-revolt-gets-backing-for-next-election.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd ,
facing an electoral backlash over plans to introduce a 40
percent tax on mining profits, will remain as the leader going
into the next election, Federal Finance Minister  Lindsay Tanner 
said.  
 “Rudd will lead the government to the election,” Tanner
said on ABC Television today. “I believe the government will
win. Suddenly, it’s become a much tighter contest and we’re
under a bit of pressure. It will be a tough fight.”  
 BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s largest mining company, and
Xstrata Plc have called on the Australian government to roll
back or ditch plans for the tax to avoid a flight of investment
from the country, while Sinosteel Corp. today said it was
“concerned.” The so-called “super tax” is proving a hard
sell in the main mining states of Western Australia, where a
poll showed support for Rudd’s Labor Party has fallen to a
record low, and Queensland.  
 “The mining tax, it’s a severe negative for the government
at the moment,” Galaxy Research pollster David Briggs said on
Sky News today. He said Labor would probably lose four of its 15
seats in Queensland should an election be held now.  
 Australia , which voted Rudd’s center-left Labor Party into
power in October 2007 after 12 years of conservative Liberal
Party rule, must go to the polls within 10 months. Most
political experts are predicting the election will be held later
this year.  
 Gillard Speculation  
 Deputy Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said speculation she
may challenge Rudd’s leadership was “absolutely absurd.”  
 “I’ve read the newspapers and the thing that matters is
not what’s in the pages of the daily newspapers but a focus on
making a difference to working families,” Gillard told
reporters in Brisbane yesterday.  
 Nationally, a survey conducted between June 3 and June 5
showed 53 percent of voters preferred the opposition, compared
with 47 percent who backed Rudd’s party, the first time Labor
has trailed in four years.  
 The proposed 40 percent levy would be imposed on resource
companies’ returns that exceed the rate on long-term Australian
government bonds, currently about 6 percent, and be offset by a
credit for royalties paid to state governments, according to
government documents.  
 China Concern  
 Sinosteel  is investigating the impact the proposed tax will
have on its cashflow, Guilio Casello, chief operating officer of
Sinosteel Midwest Corp., told ABC Television today. China’s
biggest iron ore trader bought Australian company Midwest Corp.
for A$1.4 billion in 2008 and is developing a mine in Western
Australia.  
 “Obviously there’s concern,” Casello said. “The Chinese
are very large investors into the region. They invest in
obviously not just our project but in a number of projects into
the region. They’re still very committed to the region. They
understand the potential.”  
 BHP and Xstrata has joined  Rio Tinto Group  and Peabody
Energy Corp. in reviewing, suspending or slowing Australian
projects because of the tax.  
 The government may raise the threshold at which the levy
kicks in to more than 10 percent from 6 percent, the  Herald Sun 
newspaper reported June 12. Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson 
has said the government is open to “refinements” to the tax.  
 “Our tax reforms are about making sure mining companies
pay a fairer price for our mineral wealth,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 Facing Protests  
 Rudd faced protests from mining executives in Perth last
week as he met with business leaders to promote the tax.  
 Industry groups say the tax would force companies to shift
operations overseas, jeopardizing investment in a business that
represents about 10 percent of the A$1.2 trillion ($980 billion)
economy. Rudd has countered that the companies involved are
exaggerating their importance to Australia, the world’s biggest
shipper of iron ore and coal.  
 Wild West  
 Labor’s support has fallen to a record low of 26 percent in
Western Australia, compared with 52 percent for the Liberals and
their coalition partner the Nationals, according to a  West
Australian newspaper  poll released yesterday. On those figures,
Labor would lose all four of the seats it holds in the state,
generator of a third of the nation’s exports.  
 “The Western Australian market has been unsettled by the
combined impacts of the instability in Europe, the uncertainty
caused by the proposed resource super profits tax in Australia
and declining commodity prices,” Keith Jones, managing partner
of Deloitte in the state, said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 The value of Western Australian-listed companies in May
decreased by A$20.7 billion, or 13 percent, to A$143.8 billion,
Deloitte said.  
 Western Australia, about four times the size of France,
accounts for 62 percent of the nation’s mineral production, 73
percent of natural gas and 64 percent of crude oil and
condensate.  
 In Rudd’s favor, voters supported his actions during the
global financial crisis when he implemented a stimulus program
that helped the nation avoid recession. He was aided by demand
for raw materials from India and  China , the world’s largest
buyer of iron ore, which fueled purchases of Australia’s natural
resources.  
 “People need to get serious,” Transport Minister  Anthony Albanese  said on the Ten television network today, referring to
calls for Rudd to be replaced. “The fact is our prime minister
is the one leader of the advanced world who negotiated
successfully through the global financial crisis.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        