-- U.K. Economy to Grow Faster Than Forecast as Pound Aids Exports, CBI Says
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-06-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/bank-of-england-s-dale-says-crisis-in-a-new-phase-as-effects-to-persist.html

          
          
             Europe’s sovereign debt panic marks
a transition in the global financial crisis, and the U.K. will
continue to suffer the effects even as its economic recovery
gains momentum, the Bank of England said.  
 “The financial crisis has entered a new phase over the
past three months,” Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  said in the
foreword of the central bank’s quarterly bulletin published
today in London. “The effects of the crisis are likely to
persist for some time.”  
 While recent U.K. economic data have been “generally
positive,” investors keep expecting central banks to maintain
emergency stimulus, the report said. The Confederation of
British Industry today raised its forecast for the nation’s
 economic growth , saying the pound’s drop will aid exports.  
 “The U.K. economy continues to emerge from the effects of
the financial crisis,” Dale wrote. “That recovery is likely to
gather pace over the next year.”  
 Investor concern on government debt in some European
nations has buoyed demand for U.K. government bonds, the report
said. The yield on the 10-year gilt has fallen about 0.5
percentage point since the start of the year to 3.462 percent.  
 The Bank of England last week held its emergency bond-
purchase plan at 200 billion pounds ($290 billion) and the
 benchmark interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent to aid
the economic recovery. The European Central Bank left its key
interest rate at a record low of 1 percent and is buying
government bonds to prevent a rout in Greek debt from engulfing
the region and to shore up the euro.  
 Bond Sale  
 Today’s report said the U.K. central bank used most of the
proceeds of a $2 billion bond sale in March to buy euro- and
dollar-denominated assets.  
 The bulletin also included the results of a semi-annual
survey of the 31 banks that are the most active in the London
foreign exchange market. The poll showed that turnover in
currency trading rose 14 percent in October 2009 from April that
year. Trading was still down 9 percent from October 2008. From a
year earlier, the pace of decline in turnover in London was
slower than in New York or Singapore.  
 The CBI, the U.K.’s biggest business lobby, said in a
separate report that  gross domestic product  will rise 1.3
percent this year, compared with a prediction in March of 1
percent. The group also said  inflation  would slow below the
bank’s 2 percent target by the second quarter of 2011 from the
current 17-month high of 3.7 percent.  
 Dale said consumer-price pressures will probably ease.  
 ‘Temporary’ Inflation  
 “The increase in inflation largely reflects temporary
effects and is likely to moderate as those effects wane,” he
wrote. “But if the current period of above-target inflation
causes inflation expectations to rise, there is a risk that
inflation may stay higher for longer.”  
 Volatility in inflation over the past three years has
influenced households’ perception of consumer-price increase,
the report said.  
 While their perceptions picked up along with gains in the
inflation rate from late 2007 to early 2009, their perceptions
were slower to mirror the drop in the rate. People are now
placing more weight on the central bank’s 2 percent target when
forming price expectations because of the tendency of inflation
to return to the goal, the bank said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- John Wraith, U.K. fixed-income strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, talks about the outlook for the U.K. Office for Budget Responsibility's growth forecasts and gilt yields.
     He speaks with Mark Barton on Bloomberg Television's "Start Up". (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 9 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Coulton, head of sovereign debt research for Fitch Ratings, talks about the U.K. government's response to the ratings agency's calls to accelerate the pace of deficit cuts.
     Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne yesterday pledged a “fundamental reassessment” of state spending to tame a deficit that soared to 11 percent of gross domestic product in the year through March. Coulton speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
