-- Bank of England Faces Debate as Inflation Shows Resilience, Sentance Says
-- Craig Stirling
-- 2010-06-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/bank-of-england-faces-debate-as-inflation-shows-resilience-sentance-says.html

          
          
             Bank of England officials face
“interesting debates” in the second half of 2010 on how long
to keep up stimulus measures as the economy recovers and
inflation shows resilience, policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said.  
 “Surveys point to some upward pressure on public  inflation
expectations ,” Sentance wrote in an article published yesterday
in the Sunday Times. “There also appears to be less spare
capacity in the economy than many had feared.”  
 Consumers’ expectations for price increases in the next
year rose to the highest level since August 2008 in a Bank of
England survey last month, and data tomorrow may show inflation
stayed above the government’s upper 3 percent limit in May.
Policy makers on June 10 kept up their stimulus plan as they
held the  benchmark interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent.  
 “The recovery in the economy and the resilience of
inflation highlight the issue of how long such an expansionary
policy will remain appropriate,” Sentance said. “As spare
capacity has not exerted much downward pressure on inflation so
far, there must be a degree of uncertainty about its future
impact.” Headwinds to  growth  “can be offset by growing
confidence and momentum from private-sector demand,” he said.  
 Sentance said that surveys signal that economic growth “is
gaining momentum” and that measures of spending in money terms
have picked up, in part because of the central bank’s  200
billion-pound  ($290 billion) bond-buying program. He predicted
“some interesting debates” on the Monetary Policy Committee in
the second half of 2010.  
 The inflation rate reached a 17-month high of 3.7 percent
in April. Data due tomorrow from the Office for National
Statistics may show it fell to 3.5 percent in May, according to
the median of 30 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Stirling  in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        