-- Free Markets Show U.S. Has Tamed the Bond Vigilantes
-- Liz Capo McCormick
-- 2010-06-14T13:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/believing-in-free-markets-shows-u-s-more-than-compensates-bond-vigilantes.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has tamed the bond vigilantes.  
 While investors punish European nations from Greece to
Spain for deficits by pushing up bond yields, Treasury rates of
all maturities have fallen to an average of about 2 percent from
2.75 percent a year ago even as the amount of marketable debt
outstanding increased 20 percent to $7.96 trillion.  
 The market’s advocates of fiscal discipline are being
placated as Bernanke keeps benchmark interest rates at a record
low, allowing them to profit from the gap between short- and
long-term yields with inflation at a four-decade low.  Bill Gross , the manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said as
recently as March that “bonds have seen their best days.” On
June 4, he called Treasuries “attractive.”  
 “Central banks by keeping rates near zero have basically
covered the bond vigilantes in duct tape,” said  Edward Yardeni ,
who coined the term in 1983 for investors who protest
inflationary monetary or fiscal policies by selling bonds and
driving up government borrowing costs.  
 “They have stymied them from expressing their displeasure
over runaway government deficits and social welfare spending,”
Yardeni said. “We are not getting any votes of protest from the
bond vigilantes in the U.S. because short-term rates are so
low.”  
 Rising Returns  
 After losing 3.72 percent in 2009, U.S. debt, the most
liquid fixed-income securities in the world, has returned 4.49
percent since December, the best start to a year since gaining
5.81 percent during the same period in 2003, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Master Treasury Index. Ten-year
Treasuries yielded 3.29 percent today, down from this year’s
high of 4 percent on April 5.  
 Bonds are preserving value as investors such as billionaire  George Soros  predict the financial crisis is “far from over”
with nations in Europe struggling to contain spending and stock
markets from the U.S. to Germany and Japan posting declines.
Greece’s 10-year notes yield 5.03 percentage points more than
U.S. Treasuries, compared with a median spread of 0.68
percentage points over the past five years.  
 While yields are low on an absolute basis, they’re
relatively high by other measures. The yield on 10-year notes is
2.54 percentage points higher than two-year notes, more than
double the average of about 1 percent since the 1980. After
taking into account consumer prices, excluding food and energy,
the yield equals 2.33 percent, up from last year’s low 0.71
percent in January.  
 ‘Fast Asleep’  
 “The famed bond vigilantes are fast asleep,”  Joachim Fels , co-head of global economics at Morgan Stanley in  London ,
said in a June 2 report. “But this is not new: bond markets
also took years to take onboard the ‘Great Inflation’ of the
1970s and the big disinflation of the 1980s and 1990s.”  
 Economists and strategists are cutting their yield
forecasts, predicting 10-year Treasury rates will end the year
at 3.8 percent, based on the median of 60 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey from June 2 to June 8. That’s down from
4.1 percent in May’s survey and 4.25 percent in April.  
 Even if the yield matches the highest forecast, 5.25
percent, it would still be below the average of 7.18 percent
since 1980, reflecting growing confidence since  Paul Volcker  led
the central bank in the 1980s.  
 The  consumer price index  fell 0.1 percent in April, the
first drop since March 2009, figures from the Labor Department
in Washington showed May 19. Excluding food and fuel, prices
were unchanged, for the smallest 12-month gain in four decades.  
 Real Yields  
 Slower inflation preserves the value of fixed-interest
payments, especially for longer-maturity bonds. Thirty-year debt
has returned 8.72 percent this year, compared with a decline of
2.11 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  
 Real yields averaged 2.30 percent over the past decade,
compared with 3.45 percent in the 1990s and 4.42 percent in the
1980s, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “The U.S. is the sovereign debt of choice right now,”
said  John Spinello , chief technical strategist in  New York  at
Jefferies Group Inc., one of 18 primary dealers that trade with
the Fed. “The fact that we have low inflation is keeping a lid
on any rise in rates.”  
 Lower Treasury yields may also reflect investor demand for
a haven amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will slow the global
economy. Gross, who manages the $228 billion Total Return Fund,
called the U.S. the “least dirty shirt” in a “world full of
dirty shirts in terms of excessive debt.”  
 ‘Significant Haven’  
 “A 30-year Treasury bond at just mildly above 4 percent is
not a great value, but it’s a significant haven of storage, so
to speak, for investors,” Gross, the co-chief investment
officer at Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment
Management Co., said in a radio interview June 4 on Bloomberg
Surveillance with Tom Keene. “It’s attractive from the
standpoint that inflation, in a new-normal economy, stays in the
1 to 2 percent area.”  
 Gross boosted his fund’s investment in U.S. government-
related debt in April to the highest level in five months. A
month earlier he said in a separate Bloomberg Radio interview
that “bonds have seen their best days.”  
   U.S. debt  is forecast to about 90 percent of the economy in
2020 from 53 percent currently, according to the non-partisan  Congressional Budget Office . The White House budget office
projects a $1.55 trillion deficit in the year ending Sept. 30,
up almost 10 percent from last year’s record.  
 ‘Act II’  
 Soros said that the world economy bears similarities to the
1930s, another time when governments were under pressure to
narrow their budget deficits amid weak economies.  
 “We have just entered Act II” of the crisis, Soros said
at a conference in Vienna on June 10.  
 History shows yields can remain low as deficits rise. When
the U.S. was in the midst of the Great Depression, 10-year
yields fell to 3.12 percent in 1934 from 3.34 percent in 1931,
according to “A History of  Interest Rates ” by Sidney Homer.  
 Then, America’s budget deficit as a percentage of gross
domestic product rose to 5.9 percent from 0.6 percent as the
government boosted spending to revive the economy, Office of
Management and Budget data shows. Last year, the deficit was 9.9
percent of GDP, up from 3.2 percent in 2008. The OMB estimates
the ratio will rise to 10.6 percent this year before falling to
8.3 percent in 2011.  
 Inflation Outlook  
 Even though  government spending  is forecast to remain
elevated, bond investors don’t foresee faster inflation. The
difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation-Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, stood at 1.99 percentage points today, down
from this year’s high of 2.47 percent in January.  
 Investors are piling into U.S. government debt, supporting
President Barack Obama’s recovery efforts, because they can
profit from buying longer-term government debt funded by short-
term loans at lower rates in carry trades. The Fed has kept its
benchmark rate for overnight loans locked in a range of zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008.  
 “The factor that really matters is how the financial
markets deal with the financing,” said Bruce Kasman, chief
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York in a Bloomberg
Radio interview on June 8. “And right now, we are dealing with
falling interest rates and not rising interest rates. From a
near-term point of view, the drag from debt is not one that
worries me from the point of view of growth.”  
 Bank Demand  
 The difference in short- and long-term rates has helped
banks shore up profits after taking $1.77 trillion in writedowns
and losses since the start of 2007, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Commercial banks’ holdings of Treasuries and agency debt
reached $1.51 trillion in April, an almost 37 percent increase
from January 2008, and the highest level since at 1973, Fed data
show. Holdings were $1.481 trillion in the week ended June 2.  
 “Banks are doing this carry trade because there is no
price for credit as interest rates are being kept so low,” said  Joseph Mason , a professor of finance at  Louisiana State
University  in  Baton Rouge .  
 Investors who borrowed dollars at the three-month London
interbank offered rate and invested in 10-year notes over the
last year would have on average earned about 3.21 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The annualized rise in
core consumer prices was 1 percent in April.  
 ‘Gated Community’  
 Central banks are raising concern about the risk to
investors in the carry trade when rates begin to rise.  
 The increase in such trades “has contributed to raising
the risk of their abrupt unwinding which, if it were to occur,
would most likely raise the risk of higher interest-rate
volatility” in the U.S. and euro zone, the European Central
Bank said in its biannual Financial Stability Report May 31.  
 Treasuries lost 3 percent in 1994 as former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  began six rate increases that were earlier and
larger than investors anticipated. Global capital losses that
year were about $1.5 trillion, according to estimates by the
Bank for International Settlements in Basel, Switzerland.  
 Bernanke and Fed policy makers have given little indication
they will back away from the pledge to keep rates at a record
low for an “extended period,” given the  unemployment rate  is
above 9 percent, the inflation rate is trending down and the
Europe remains in turmoil.  
 “The reality is that most bond vigilantes live in a gated
community -- called the yield curve,” Yardeni said. “It’s
either bonds or money-market instruments. So, you have to
swallow your pride and all your anxieties about out of control
fiscal policy and buy the bonds anyway because the alternative
is zero percent.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke speaks during a House Budget Committee hearing in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
