-- BP Submits Capture Plan, Obama Seeks Escrow Account
-- Mark Chediak
-- 2010-06-14T16:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/bp-faces-obama-cleanup-fund-escrow-demand-as-containment-deadline-nears.html

          
          
                  June 14 (Bloomberg) --  BP Plc  sent a revised oil-capture
plan for its leaking Gulf of Mexico well to the Obama
administration as the government demanded an escrow account for
damage claims related to the biggest petroleum spill in the
nation’s history.  
 BP said 53,000 barrels of oil a day can be captured by the
end of June, two weeks sooner than previously proposed,
according to a copy of the plan provided by the administration.
BP also proposed to raise capacity to 80,000 barrels by mid-July
as a safeguard against breakdowns. The London-based company has
been collecting about  15,000 barrels a day  for the past week.  
 The U.S. Coast Guard asked BP to capture more oil after a
federal scientific panel said twice as much is leaking than
previously estimated. White House Adviser  David Axelrod 
yesterday called on BP to establish an escrow account for
claims. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  is requesting BP set
up a $20 billion fund administered by an independent trustee,
according to a letter issued by his office.  
 “We want to make sure the money is escrowed for the
businesses and want to make sure the money is independently
administered so it’s not slow-walked,” Axelrod said yesterday
on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  
 BP’s board meets today to discuss whether to reduce or
defer its second-quarter dividend. The shares fell as much as 10
percent in London trading today.  
 ‘Political Affordability’  
 “They had said they had the balance-sheet flexibility to
sustain the dividend but now they have to think about the
political affordability,”  Lucy Haskins , an analyst at Barclays
Capital in London, said today in an interview. “That’s what’s
being surrendered in the conversation with Obama this week.”
Barclay’s rates the shares “equal weight positive.”  
 The company’s shares fell 36.45 pence, or 9.3 percent, to
355.45 pence in London, the lowest closing price in 13 years.
The stock is down 46 percent since the April 20 explosion aboard
the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the Gulf, resulting in the
deaths of 11 workers.  
 The revised recovery plan is designed with sufficient
capacity to cover the high range of the government’s spill-rate
estimate by June 30, and provide backup capacity by mid-July,
Jon Pack, a BP spokesman in Houston, said today.  
 BP and the Coast Guard expect some leakage to continue at
least until mid-August, when the first of two so-called relief
wells can plug the bottom of the damaged well.  
 More Development Plans  
 The company will start taking oil and natural gas from the
damaged well to a rig on the surface through a separate pipe in
the next few days, and a “more permanent and flexible” system
with floating risers is set to begin operations around the end
of the month, according to a statement today. The company was
able to capture 127,000 barrels from June 4 until June 12.  
 David Pursell , managing director and a petroleum engineer
at Tudor, Pickering & Holt Co. in Houston, said he’s
“cautiously optimistic” BP can reach its recovery targets.  
 “This is all new stuff, it’s never been done before,”
Pursell said today in an interview. “I’m in show-me mode, with
my fingers crossed.”  
 Obama will address the nation at 8 p.m. tomorrow, after he
returns from a two-day visit to Alabama, Mississippi and
Florida, said  Ben LaBolt , White House spokesman.  
 The president is scheduled to meet June 16 at the White
House with BP’s chairman,  Carl-Henric Svanberg , and other
company officials. BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  is
also expected to attend, Coast Guard Admiral  Thad Allen  said
yesterday.  
 Resources for Claims  
 Establishing the reserve account will be a subject for
“discussion,” Axelrod said. “But it has to be substantial. BP
has the resources to meet the claims and we’re going to make
sure they do.”  
 Allen said having an independent administrator for the
escrow account would make sure that the response to claims
“happens quicker.”  
 “We’ve been very concerned about the claims process,” he
said yesterday on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program. “This is
not a core function of an oil-producing company.”  
 The cleanup costs and legal liabilities resulting from the
leak may reach $37 billion, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.
BP said today it has spent $1.6 billion so far on the response
to the spill.  
 BP’s revised plan calls for keeping more oil-recovery ships
at the spill site and adding vessels that can process and
shuttle the captured oil ashore.  
 Oil Flow Rate  
 Oil gushed from the well at a daily rate of 20,000 barrels
to 40,000 barrels through June 3, when BP removed a kinked pipe
that may have been curtailing the flow, a panel of government
scientists said June 10. One research team said the rate might
have been 50,000 barrels a day.  
 BP, at the request of the government’s flow-rate group, was
installing pressure sensors yesterday on the well to help
determine the leak rate, said Mark Proegler, a company
spokesman.  
 In its application for the well, BP told the government it
was prepared for a worst-case oil spill of 250,000 barrels a
day.  
 The spill has closed as much as 37 percent of the Gulf of
Mexico to fishing, cut the number of offshore drilling rigs in
the nation by half and polluted 140 miles of shoreline from
Louisiana to  Florida .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Chediak  in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A new oil recovery plan by BP calls for two pairs of production ships and shuttle tankers to replace a cluster of vessels at the site. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Julian MacQueen, chief executive officer of Innisfree Hotels, talks about the impact of the BP Plc oil well leak on the Gulf Coast hotel industry.
     MacQueen speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Senator George Lemieux, a Florida Republican, talks about the need for BP Plc to create an escrow fund to cover damage claims related to the largest oil spill in the history of the U.S.
     Lemieux speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Alex Sink, chief financial officer for the state of Florida, speaks about the financial impact of the BP Plc oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico on her state and her desire that the federal government lead the process for claims against BP.
     Sink speaks with Margaret Brennan and Lizzie O'Leary on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Buzz Ritchie, president of Gulf Coast Community Bank, talks about the impact of the BP Plc oil spill on small businesses along Northwest Florida's coastline.
     Ritchie, a former Florida state representative, speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Florida's Escambia County Commission Chairman Grover Robinson talks about BP Plc's response to the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and the impact of the disaster so far on Pensacola Beach.
     Robinson talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "Inside Track." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Louisiana Treasurer John Kennedy talks about President Barack Obama's call for BP Plc to set up an escrow account to cover claims pertaining to the company's oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
     Kennedy also discusses the need to prepare for a possible bankruptcy filing by BP. He speaks with Deirdre Bolton and Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "Inside Track." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
