-- BP Faces Obama Cleanup Fund Escrow Demand as Containment Deadline Nears
-- Susan Decker
-- 2010-06-13T15:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/bp-gets-containment-capacity-deadline-from-u-s-as-obama-seeks-escrow-fund.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  wants  BP Plc 
to set up an escrow account to pay the claims for damages caused
by its oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, White House adviser
 David Axelrod  said.  
 “We want to make sure the money is escrowed for the
businesses and want to make sure the money is independently
administered so it’s not slow-walked,” Axelrod said today on
NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  
 Axelrod’s comments came as the Obama administration steps
up pressure on BP to control the spill and pay for cleanup. The
U.S. Coast Guard gave BP until tomorrow to  find  more capacity to
contain the leak. BP’s board meets tomorrow to discuss whether
to reduce or defer its second-quarter dividend.  
 “The board will be looking at a number of options when it
meets tomorrow,”  Sheila Williams , a spokeswoman for BP, said
after Axelrod spoke. “No decision is expected this week.”  
 Obama will address the nation after he returns from a two-
day visit to the Gulf Coast beginning tomorrow to check on the
oil spill progress, Axelrod said. The president is scheduled to
meet June 16 at the White House with BP’s chairman,  Carl-Henric Svanberg , and other company officials.  
 Establishing the reserve account will be a subject for
“discussion between us and BP, but it has to be substantial
enough to meet the claims,” Axelrod said.  
 “BP has the resources to meet the claims and we’re going
to make sure they do,” he said.  
 Estimates Doubled  
 Scientists and researchers doubled their estimates of the
spill’s size on June 10, and BP’s efforts don’t “provide the
needed collection capacity consistent with the revised flow
estimates,” said Rear Admiral James A. Watson, the federal on-
scene coordinator, in a letter dated June 11. It was sent to
 Doug Suttles , BP’s chief operating officer for exploration and
production, and was released yesterday.  
 BP  plans to almost triple its capacity to capture oil from
its leaking well to as much as 50,000 barrels a day by mid-July,
the Coast Guard said June 11. The plan calls for two pairs of
production ships and shuttle tankers to replace a cluster of
vessels at the site, Coast Guard Admiral  Thad Allen , the
government’s national incident commander for the spill, said
June 11 at a press conference in Washington.  
 BP collected about 15,040 barrels of oil and flared 32.9
million cubic feet of gas yesterday, the company said today in a
statement on its  website .  
 The well was releasing between 20,000 barrels and 40,000
barrels a day, twice as much as previously estimated, before BP
cut away a kinked pipe on June 3, U.S. government scientists and
independent researchers reported June 10. They are still
studying the current leak rate. BP recovered about 7,570 barrels
of oil from midnight to noon yesterday.  
 Call With Cameron  
 Based on government estimates, the drillship isn’t
capturing as much of the spill as BP predicted earlier this
month. In a June 4 interview with CBS, Suttles said the system
would be capable of capturing as much as 90 percent of the flow.  
 The additional ships planned next month will give BP backup
pumping ability in the event that one of the vessels can’t be
used, Allen said.  
 “The issue is for BP to move quickly,” Allen said.  
 In its application for the well, BP told the government it
was prepared for a worst-case oil spill of 250,000 barrels a
day.  
 U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and President Obama,
meantime, talked yesterday and Cameron expressed his “sadness”
at the “human and environmental catastrophe” caused by the
spill.  
 Pensacola  
 “The president and prime minister agreed that BP should
continue -- as they have pledged -- to work intensively to
ensure that all sensible and reasonable steps are taken as
rapidly as practicable to deal with the consequences of this
catastrophe,” Cameron’s office in London said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 In the Florida panhandle, the city of Pensacola began
taking additional steps to protect its marshes and inlets from
oil creeping closer to the coast.  
 Officials closed the area’s two main entries for boats June
11 in an attempt to capture the oil before it gets to the inter-
coastal waterways and sensitive areas, Pensacola Mayor Mike
Wiggins said in an interview yesterday. The oil could do “grave
damage,” he said.  
 “The oil is very close to our shores,” he said. “The
weekend is going to be very challenging for us.”  
 A plume of oil was detected June 11, 9 miles (14.5
kilometers) south of Pensacola Pass, and another plume of oil
was seen six miles (9.7 kilometers) south of Escambia County,
Florida, Sonya Daniel, a county spokeswoman, said.  
 Meeting on Dividend  
 The spill began after the drilling rig Deepwater Horizon
sank April 22, following a blowout of BP’s well that killed 11
of its crew.  
 It has closed as much as 37 percent of the Gulf of Mexico
to fishing, cut offshore drilling in the nation by half,
polluted 140 miles (225 kilometers) of shoreline from Louisiana
to Florida, and cost BP more than $1.43 billion.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net  or
 Jordan Burke  in New York at 
 jburke29@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A new oil recovery plan by BP calls for two pairs of production ships and shuttle tankers to replace a cluster of vessels at the site. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
