-- BP Options Show 63% Drop as Hayward Faces Washington
-- Jeff Kearns
-- 2010-06-14T20:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/bp-inviting-shorts-betting-on-63-drop-as-ceo-hayward-heads-to-washington.html

          
          
             The fastest-growing bet on  BP Plc  in
the U.S. stock-options market shows traders expect a 63 percent
plunge in about a month as costs surge for its uncontrolled well
spewing oil into the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Options to sell BP’s American depositary receipts in July
at $12.50 recorded the largest jump in open interest of any
contract during the last two weeks, soaring to 33,445
outstanding from zero as the month began, according to data
compiled by Trade Alert LLC. Investors buying the  put options 
are wagering the shares will extend their drop from $33.97 and
wipe out $140 billion from BP’s market value since April 20,
when the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded.  
 BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  is set to testify
before Congress this week and Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  will
answer a summons to the White House as politicians demand BP
stops its dividend and pays laid off oil-rig workers. The
spill’s cost may reach $40 billion, bank Standard Chartered Plc
estimated last week, triple the $12.5 billion price tag Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. projected on April 30.  
 “The government has a lynch mob mentality,” said  Fadel Gheit  at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York, rated by StarMine as the
most accurate active analyst on BP. “It’s in nobody’s interest
to bankrupt BP, but that’s what Obama is doing right now.
Crippling BP is not going to make them clean the spill better.”  
 BP fell 9.3 percent to close at 355.45 in London for the
 biggest drop  in the benchmark FTSE 100. Its U.S. shares lost 9.7
percent to $30.67 at the close in New York. The July $12.50 puts
rose 56 percent to 28 cents. About 253,000 BP puts changed hands
in the U.S., more than double the average over the past four
weeks and 1.7 times the volume for calls.  
 U.S. Ultimatum  
 A draft letter to Hayward in U.S. Congress calls for BP to
set up an account of $20 billion for the cleanup and economic
damages. Obama wants BP to set up an escrow account to pay
claims, an aide said yesterday.  
 BP sent a revised oil-capture plan to the Obama
administration today under which it could divert 50,000 barrels
a day to a ship on the surface, meeting a Coast Guard ultimatum
to find more capacity to contain the leak. The company is
currently collecting about 15,000 barrels a day through a cap on
the damaged well. Government scientists raised their estimates
for the pace of the spill to between 20,000 and 40,000 barrels a
day last week, double earlier figures.  
 In a phone call this weekend, Obama told British Prime
Minister  David Cameron  he wasn’t trying to undermine BP’s value,
U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said in an interview with
the British Broadcasting Corp.  
 Stepping Up Rhetoric  
 BP shares  touched a 13-year low last week in London as the
administration stepped up the rhetoric on BP, the largest U.S.
oil producer. President  Barack Obama  said he would have fired
Hayward, 53, if he were working for him. In the U.S., where the
majority of options trading in the company’s shares occurs, the
volume of put contracts changing hands last week was 100 times
the average level before the accident.  
 “People are still concerned that BP could go bankrupt,”
said  Chris Rich , head options strategist at JonesTrading
Institutional Services LLC in Chicago. “The puts are saying
that people have such a high level of fear. There’s just a huge
amount of put buying right now.”  
 BP’s ADRs  closed at $33.97 in New York last week, down 44
percent from April 20.  Sheila Williams , a spokesman for the
company in London, declined to comment on trading in the shares.  
 Cameron’s phone call to Obama took place as concern mounted
that the crisis at the U.K.’s largest non-financial company will
hurt investors. BP paid 14 percent of the total dividends from
the London stock market’s  largest companies  last year, according
to Morgan Stanley.  
 Costs So Far  
 BP has so far spent $1.6 billion trying to stop the spill
and cleaning up crude that’s reached the coastline in northwest
Florida. A cost of $40 billion would be more than double BP’s
 expected profit  this year. A permanent solution to capping the
Macondo well a mile below the Gulf of Mexico must wait for the
completion of relief wells, expected in August at the earliest.  
 Credit default swaps for BP, contracts linked to the
likelihood of the company failing to make debt repayments,
soared to a record last week. The cost to protect $10 million of
BP debt for a year reached $695,000, according to CMA
DataVision. It was $29,000 on April 30.  
 “Market speculation can hurt the company because it sends
a signal that it’s in trouble,” said  Alastair Syme , an analyst
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in London. “BP might find it difficult
to access cheap credit today. But they don’t rely on credit for
their day-to-day business. They are cashflow long and have great
assets.”  
 Dividend Risk  
 More likely than default is BP will cut or defer its $10
billion-a-year  dividend  payments to appease politicians
demanding it sets money aside to pay spill costs. Hayward said
last week the company was “considering all options” for the
second-quarter dividend. BP’s board will meet today to discuss
the dividend, a spokesman said during the weekend.  
 Dividend swaps trading in the over-the-counter market imply
a cut of about 50 percent over the next year, according to
 Bhavin Patel , an equity derivatives strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. BP’s December 2011 dividend swaps
traded at 18 pence on June 11, he said, compared with a total
payout of 36.42 pence in 2009.  
 Most equity analysts in London and New York remain positive
on BP, pointing to the company’s ability to generate cash from
oil and gas fields worldwide. BP has 27 buy recommendations, 12
holds and one sell, according to  analysts surveyed  by Bloomberg.  
 BP’s leaders will have to last through their week in
Washington. Svanberg, 58, is scheduled to meet Obama on June 16,
and Hayward testifies to Congress the following day.  
 “The political rhetoric is certainly heating up,” said
 Jason Gammel , an analyst at Macquarie Securities USA Inc. “We
need a discussion of how this is going to be fixed and not all
the finger pointing. I hope that’s the endgame.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       BP CEO Tony Hayward  
                       
                         
                           Pat Sullivan/Pool via Bloomberg 
                         
                         BP CEO Tony Hayward updates reporters on efforts to clean up the catastrophic oil spill off the Louisiana coast at the BP Command Center in Houston. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     BP CEO Tony Hayward updates reporters on efforts to clean up the catastrophic oil spill off the Louisiana coast at the BP Command Center in Houston. Photographer: Pat Sullivan/Pool via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Alex Sink, chief financial officer for the state of Florida, speaks about the financial impact of the BP Plc oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico on her state and her desire that the federal government lead the process for claims against BP.
     Sink speaks with Margaret Brennan and Lizzie O'Leary on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Senator George Lemieux, a Florida Republican, talks about the need for BP Plc to create an escrow fund to cover damage claims related to the largest oil spill in the history of the U.S.
     Lemieux speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Florida's Escambia County Commission Chairman Grover Robinson talks about BP Plc's response to the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and the impact of the disaster so far on Pensacola Beach.
     Robinson talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "Inside Track." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- John Nevius, an attorney at Anderson Kill & Olick PC, talks about calls from U.S. lawmakers for BP Plc to set up an escrow account for damage claims related to its oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and to suspend its dividend.      
     He talks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." Bloomberg's James Polson also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
