-- BP Must Compensate States, Tourism Industries, Gulf Coast Governors Say
-- Angela Greiling Keane
-- 2010-06-13T15:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/bp-must-compensate-states-tourism-industries-gulf-coast-governors-say.html

          
          
             BP Plc  must compensate “every one
of” the people and industries affected by its oil spill in the
Gulf of Mexico, Alabama Governor  Robert Riley  said.  
 “I don’t know how far this is going to go,” Riley said
today on CNN’s “State of the Union” program. “I don’t know
how many people are going to be affected, but the state of
Alabama is going to be negatively affected. It’s going to have
to be taken care of by BP or someone else.”  
 Riley, a Republican, was one of three Gulf coast governors
who today called for compensation from BP for the spill’s damage
to their states. Florida Governor  Charlie Crist , an independent,
and Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour , a Republican, spoke
today on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program.  
 “We’ve lost the first third of our tourist season,” said
Barbour, who opposes President  Barack Obama ’s six-month
moratorium on new deepwater drilling.  
 Riley said he doesn’t have a price tag for how much his
state will lose from tax revenue or how severely tourist
destinations along the Gulf of Mexico area will be hurt.  
 “The whole economy is based on the tourism industry and
when it goes away, we have to compensate them,” he said.  
 April 22  
 The spill began after the drilling rig Deepwater Horizon
sank April 22, following a blowout of BP’s well that killed 11
of its crew.  
 Oil has washed ashore in Louisiana, Mississippi and
Alabama, while tar balls and oil patties have hit some Florida
beaches near Pensacola. Several research models indicate it
could eventually make its way up the Atlantic coast. About
78,000 square miles of the gulf, or about 32 percent of federal
waters, have been closed off from fishing.  
 Coast Guard Admiral  Thad Allen , the government’s national
incident commander for the spill, said the exact amount of oil
leaking won’t be known until the well is capped. It may be
leaking as much as 40,000 barrels a day, Allen said today on
CBS. He said sensors will be placed down by the leak to get a
more precise number.  
 The U.S. Coast Guard said BP has until tomorrow to find
more capacity to contain the leak.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        