-- BP May Lose U.S. Oil Leases, Contracts as Gulf Spill Punishment
-- Jeff Plungis
-- 2010-06-14T22:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/bp-may-lose-u-s-oil-leases-contracts-as-obama-considers-spill-punishment.html

          
          
             BP Plc may lose control of its U.S.
oil and natural gas wells and be barred from doing business with
the federal government as punishment for the worst oil spill in
U.S. history, industry and regulatory analysts said.  
 President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers are debating penalties
that would cripple the company’s ability to do business in the
U.S. as public outrage intensifies. In addition to  BP’s 
culpability in the Gulf of Mexico spill, a 2005 explosion at
BP’s Texas City refinery that killed 15 workers and a 2006
pipeline leak that dumped 200,000 gallons of crude at Prudhoe
Bay, Alaska, will figure in the debate, said  Michael Wara ,
associate professor of environmental law at Stanford University
in Palo Alto, California.  
 “The government weighs whether there is a pattern and
practice,” Wara said. “They’ll consider whether BP runs these
incredibly complicated systems, where accidents can and
sometimes do happen, or whether the company has a culture that
disfavors safety and environmental compliance.”  
 The U.S. may revoke BP’s status as operator of producing
wells in the Gulf of Mexico, such as Thunder Horse, or of leases
at Prudhoe Bay, said  David Pursell , a managing director at Tudor
Pickering Holt & Co. LLC, a Houston investment bank. Separately,
Congress is considering measures to bar BP from contracts with
the Department of Defense and  Environmental Protection Agency .  
 Escrow Demand  
 Lawmakers including House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  are
demanding that BP defer the payment of any  dividends  until
fishermen and others are compensated for losses from the spill.
BP should set up an escrow account to cover claims, Obama aide
 David Axelrod  said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” yesterday. The
spill’s cost may reach $40 billion, Standard Chartered Bank
estimated last week.  
 BP’s board met today. It’s unlikely to make any
announcements until Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  meets with
Obama on June 16 in response to a request from the
administration, according to two people familiar with the
matter. Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  is scheduled to
appear before the House Energy and Commerce oversight panel the
following day.  
 The administration has the power to force BP out as
operator of existing leases on federal lands and offshore
tracts. The operator, typically the partner with a majority
interest, is designated before drilling begins. The Interior
Department tracks each operator’s performance and may
“disapprove or revoke your designation as operator” based on
accidents, pollution events or other cases of noncompliance,
according to federal regulations.  
 ‘Good Chance’  
 “We think there’s a good chance the government not only
doesn’t allow BP to operate going forward, but could rescind
operating control,” Pursell, an oil specialist, said in an
interview. “It’s a way to keep BP alive and a way for the
government to say we’ve really done something to penalize BP.”  
 Such a move would force BP to sell part or all of its
interest in some of its most profitable oil and gas fields, said
 Michael McKenna , president of MWR Strategies, a consulting firm
in Washington. Other partners in a lease are unlikely to take on
the risk of being the operator without also taking the lion’s
share of profits, McKenna said. Even if BP breaks even on the
sale of its stake, it would lose the profits from future oil
production.  
 “It’s exceedingly possible and exceedingly unwise,”
McKenna said. “You engage in the economic deterioration of a
company that’s already under stress.”  
 Oil Pollution Act  
 “The BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill raises several
fundamental questions about safety and about industry’s ability
to respond to spills,”  Kendra Barkoff , a spokeswoman for the
Interior Department, said in an e-mail. She declined to say if
the administration may revoke BP’s operator status.  
 BP also faces a fine of as much as $4,300 for each barrel
of oil leaked under the 1990 Oil Pollution Act, said David
Pettit, a senior attorney for the Natural Resources Defense
Council in Los Angeles. That may mean a bill of as much as $8.6
billion based on more than 50 days of oil spilling at a rate of
up to 40,000 barrels per day.  
 David Nicholas , a BP spokesman, declined to comment on
possible U.S. sanctions. “It’s not the sort of thing that we
would react to,” Nicholas said in an interview. “Clearly
throughout the response to this event we have been working
extremely closely with the administration and we continue to do
so.”  
 Shares Plunge  
 BP’s  American depositary receipts  have dropped 49 percent
since the explosion, wiping out $93 billion in market value.
Investors buying so-called put options are wagering that the
shares will extend their drop and slash $140 billion from BP’s
market capitalization, according to U.S. stock-options trading.
The ADRs fell 9.7 percent to $30.67 in New York trading today.  
 In addition to the Deepwater Horizon rig that exploded and
sank in April, BP operates the Gulf platforms Thunder Horse, the
second-largest producing well in the U.S. at about 300,000
barrels per day, and Atlantis, which produces 200,000 barrels of
oil a day. BP also operates the Prudhoe Bay oil field on
Alaska’s North Slope.  
 Representative  Luis Gutierrez , an Illinois Democrat, will
write Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  urging him to ban BP from
future lease sales because of the company’s “abhorrent
environmental and safety record,” said Gutierrez spokesman
Douglas Rivlin.  
 “Oil leases are a license to print money, said Rivlin.
“Why should we be giving them to these guys?”  
 EPA Sanctions  
 The EPA can disqualify companies convicted of Clean Water
Act or Clean Air Act violations from receiving federal contracts
or financial assistance, according to an agency e-mail
responding to questions. Those penalties apply to individual
facilities, not an entire company, it said.  
 BP’s facility in Prudhoe Bay and its Texas City refinery
are already under EPA sanctions. Negotiations to lift them were
suspended after the Deepwater Horizon explosion and leak, the
agency said.  
 The EPA declined to discuss details of the current
investigation into the Deepwater Horizon spill.  
 “We are taking all the steps necessary to enforce our laws
and to ensure that the responsible parties pay for the cost of
cleaning up the spill,” the agency said.  
 Last month, Gutierrez successfully pushed through an
amendment to a broader Defense Department bill requiring the
secretary of defense to review whether BP is a “responsible”
contractor.  
 Debarment Option  
 If BP doesn’t meet that standard, which includes having a
“satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics,” the
legislation would require Secretary  Robert Gates  to bar the oil
giant from defense contracts, according to Gutierrez’s office.  
 BP has six contracts with the Pentagon worth a combined
$2.1 billion, mostly for fuel.  
 In a letter last week, the consumer group Public Citizen
called on Obama and Gates to “debar” BP from all government
contracts and terminate the six Pentagon agreements.  
 “It’s a pretty disturbing pattern in the company,”  Tyson Slocum , director of Public Citizen’s energy program, said in an
interview. “There has to be a point when a financial slap on
the wrist is no longer adequate.”  
 Debarment is “definitely not an extreme option,” said
Robert Meunier, former EPA debarment officer who is now head of
Debarment Solutions in Arlington, Virginia. “It’s been used
against 70,000 individuals and businesses. It’s fairly
routine,” even if the public never hears about it, he said.  
 “While debarment makes for good politics, it makes
terrible public policy,” Meunier said. “But you’d have to be a
fool not to consider it when the president is saying he’s
looking for somebody’s ass to kick.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in Washington at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;  Jeff Plungis  in Washington
at   jplungis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Thick oil from the BP Deepwater Horizon  
                       
                         
                           Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Thick oil from the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill floats on the surface of water, and coats the marsh wetlands in Bay Jimmy near Port Sulphur, LA. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Thick oil from the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill floats on the surface of water, and coats the marsh wetlands in Bay Jimmy near Port Sulphur, LA. Photographer: Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
