-- BP Crisis Wipes $19 Billion From Energy Bonds
-- Bryan Keogh
-- 2010-06-14T17:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/bp-oil-spill-wipes-19-billion-from-value-of-energy-bonds-credit-markets.html

          
          
             The biggest oil spill in U.S.
history has wiped about $19 billion off the value of energy
company bonds as investors bet increasing regulation will curb
revenue and profits.  
 Debt sold by energy companies has lost almost 4 percent
from this year’s peak on April 27 amid mounting costs from the
April 20 Deepwater Horizon oil rig explosion, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Corporates Energy index. The
market value of the index, which contains 805 securities of
companies from London-based  BP Plc  to  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. 
of The Woodlands, Texas, ended June 11 at $510.8 billion.  
 “There are fears in the market of much tighter regulation
and concern they’ll have to re-price the risk of fines and
cleanup costs,” said  Christian Weber , a Munich, Germany-based
strategist at UniCredit SpA. “The entire sector is under a lot
of pressure.”  
 The drop in debt prices has pushed yields to the highest
since July relative to government bonds, the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index shows. That means the 50 biggest energy
company borrowers may have to pay an extra $763 million in
annual interest to refinance $80.3 billion of bonds coming due
through 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Interest costs are “going to hurt the company directly
because that feeds right into the bottom line,” said  James Barnes , a money manager at Wyomissing, Pennsylvania-based
National Penn Investors Trust Co., where he helps oversee $1
billion in fixed-income assets. “We don’t look at today’s
market as a buying opportunity.”  
 Greece Downgrade  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, Moody’s Investors Service said
it downgraded Greece’s government bond ratings by four levels to
Ba1 from A3. The outlook is stable, Moody’s said.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own corporate bonds
rather than government debt rose for a fourth straight week last
week. Company bond sales jumped 57 percent from the previous
period to about $28 billion, the most in six weeks, according to
Bloomberg data. Leveraged loan prices fell for a fourth week
while emerging-market bonds gained.  
 Corporate bond yield spreads widened 5 basis points last
week to 201 basis points, or 2.01 percentage points, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate
Index. The gap has jumped from this year’s low of 142 basis
points on April 21. Average yields climbed to 4.1 percent on
June 11 from 4.05 percent a week earlier.  
 Company debt has lost 0.23 percent this quarter after
gaining 2.92 percent, including reinvested interest, in the
first three months of the year.  
 ‘Double-Dip’  
 “The simple fear is that an economic double-dip will
result, given strained financial conditions, the consumer
retrenchment that may come in the wake of all the volatility and
labor markets that remain slow and prone to stalling,”  Riz Hussain  and  Adam Richmond , credit strategists at New York-based
Morgan Stanley, said in a June 11 report.  
 While global bond sales picked up last week, they remain
below the record pace of 2009. In the U.S., companies have
issued $458.4 billion of debt in 2010 compared with $648.5
billion in the same period of last year, Bloomberg data show.  
 Leveraged loan prices continued to fall. The  S&P/LSTA U.S.
Leveraged Loan 100 Index , which tracks the 100 largest dollar-
denominated first-lien leveraged loans, declined to 88.22 cents
on the dollar on June 11 from 88.93 cents a week earlier. While
prices are up 49 percent from Dec. 17, 2008, when the index
closed at 59.2 cents, they’re down from this year’s peak of
92.90 cents on April 26.  
 Default Swaps  
 Indicators of corporate credit risk fell today amid a
broader rally in global markets.  
 The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index Series
14, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 2 basis
points to a mid-price of 122 basis points as of 1:28 p.m. in New
York, according to Markit Group Ltd. The index, which typically
falls as investor confidence improves and rises as it
deteriorates, fell to the lowest since June 3.  
 The cost of protecting European corporate bonds from
default dropped, with the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of
credit-default swaps on 50 mostly junk-rated companies declining
19 basis points to 576.58, the lowest since June 3, according to
Markit Group Ltd. prices.  
 Stocks rallied, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  climbing
1.2 percent while rising for a fourth straight day. The yield on
the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note, which moves inversely
to the price, rose 6 basis points to 3.29 percent at 1:13 p.m.
in New York as some investors pulled out of haven assets.  
 Dutch lender ABN Amro Bank NV is selling covered bonds that
may be priced to yield 80 basis points to 85 basis points more
than the mid-swap rate, according to a banker involved in the
deal. In Germany, Landesbank Baden-Wuertemberg is issuing 1
billion euros ($1.2 billion) of the notes that may yield about
10 basis points over swaps, a person familiar with the offering
said.  
 Emerging-Market Spreads  
 In emerging markets, yield spreads tightened 10 basis
points to 318 basis points, according to a JPMorgan index. The
spread has ranged from this year’s low of 230 basis points on
April 15 to a high of 346 on May 20.  
 Energy companies’ bonds are handing investors the biggest
losses since a month after  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 
collapsed in September 2008. A team of government scientists
said last week that BP’s damaged well in the Gulf of Mexico has
been leaking twice as fast as previously estimated.  
 Debt sold by gas, oil and exploration companies has given
up 1.17 percent in June, including reinvested interest,
following a loss of 1.08 percent in May, according to the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index. A total 34 of the 50 biggest
members of the index have underperformed the broader market.
Energy bonds are the worst performers globally this month.  
 “Longer term this incident will stir further wide-ranging
changes to the energy industry, its regulators and public
attitude toward the energy markets,” fixed-income strategists
at JPMorgan led by  Eric Beinstein  in New York wrote in a June 11
research report. “Changes will likely filter through the
industry for years ahead.”  
 Damages Risk  
 BP’s bonds have handed investors a loss of 9.61 percent in
June, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Corporates Energy index. Anadarko Petroleum Corp., which owns a
stake in the leaking well, lost 16.1 percent.  
 For BP, “current levels are pricing in enormous unknowns
and seemingly unquantifiable future damage liabilities,”
 Richard Birrer , an analyst at BNP Paribas SA in London, wrote
June 11. “For more risk-averse long-term investors, cash bonds
represent compelling value.”  
 BP has $11.2 billion maturing through 2012, and The Hague-
based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  is second on the list with $10.9
billion due, Bloomberg data show.  
 Notes issued by Transocean Ltd., which leased the oil rig
to BP, fell 14.1 percent.  Halliburton Co.  debt lost 4.84 percent
and Rockies Express Pipeline LLC’s securities have a negative
return of 2.39 percent.  
 ‘Pound of Flesh’  
 “You’re going to get that regulatory oversight,” said
 Michael Donelan , who oversees $3.5 billion of bonds at Ryan Labs
Inc. in New York. “The government wants to exact its pound of
flesh. That’s what the market is pricing in now.”  
 The extra yield investors demand to own U.S. bonds by
energy issuers instead of Treasuries has risen 95 basis points
since the BP spill to 239 basis points, the highest since July
2009, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  
 “You’ll see a lot of those spreads tighten” when there’s
closure on the BP spill, “whenever that may be,” said  Dan Sheppard , a director in fixed-income at Deutsche Bank AG’s
Private Wealth Management unit, where he helps oversee $12
billion for the bank in New York.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       BP crisis wipes $19 billion from energy bonds  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Fuel drips from the nozzle of a fuel pump at a BP Plc gas station in Romford, U.K. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Fuel drips from the nozzle of a fuel pump at a BP Plc gas station in Romford, U.K. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Debt sold by energy companies worldwide has lost almost 4 percent of its value from this year's peak on April 27. Photographer: Shane Bevel/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
