-- BP Spill Is `Opportunity in Disguise' for Rig Makers Keppel, Samsung Heavy
-- Kyunghee Park
-- 2010-06-14T10:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/bp-spill-is-opportunity-in-disguise-for-rig-makers-keppel-samsung-heavy.html

          
          
             Heightened U.S. scrutiny of offshore
drilling after the  BP Plc  spill, the worst in the nation’s
history, may spur oil companies to replace aging rigs with new
platforms made in South Korea and Singapore.  
 Rig-makers  Samsung Heavy Industries Co.  and  Keppel Corp. 
stand to benefit from drillers buying $300 million-plus semi-
submersible rigs, which operate in waters as deep as 10,000 feet.
About 57 percent of current units are more than 20 years old,
according to Merrill Lynch.  
 “The oil spill could be a good opportunity in disguise,”
said  Cho In Karp , head of research at Heungkuk Securities Co. in
Seoul. “Tougher regulations on offshore units could bump up
prices and spur demand to replace older ones.”  
 The U.S. has tightened inspections of so-called blowout
preventers following the April 20 explosion at the  Deepwater
Horizon  in the Gulf of Mexico that killed 11 people, and
President  Barack Obama  has pledged stronger standards.  Tougher
rules  after the 2002 sinking of the Prestige tanker off Spain
forced operators to replace single-hull vessels with costlier
double-hull ones, triggering a five-year boom in ship orders.  
 “The BP disaster is going to change the industry like the
Spanish spill did,” said  Choi Gwang Shik , a Seoul-based Kyobo
Securities Co. analyst. “Oil majors will turn to suppliers with
good standards of safety and technology to meet new rules.”  
 About 150 countries will ban single-hulled tankers by 2015.
Of the 526 very-large crude carriers in service today, 57 are
single-hulled, according to Lloyd’s Register-Fairplay data on
Bloomberg. Prior to the Exxon Valdez spill in 1989, all
supertankers were single-hulled.  
 Catalyze Rig Replacement  
 Stronger drilling safety rules could “catalyze the repair
and replacement cycle for older rig fleets,” said  Tong Chong Heong , the head of Singapore-based Keppel’s offshore arm. “In
the U.S.A., drilling will resume after new safety regulations
are adopted and this will also provide opportunities for yards
to carry out the needed safety enhancement works.”  
 Keppel, the largest maker of shallow-water rigs, has lost
12 percent in Singapore trading since the Deepwater Horizon
accident, while the benchmark Straits Times Index has fallen 5.5
percent. The company dropped 0.2 percent to S$8.47 today.  
 In Seoul,  Samsung Heavy , the world’s biggest builder of
deepwater rigs, used in seas more than 10,000 feet deep, has
dropped 11 percent since April 20, compared with a 1.6 percent
retreat for the Kospi Index. The company rose 0.4 percent today
to 23,500 won, the highest price in a month.  
 Orders Pick-Up  
 Tighter drilling rules may support a revival in offshore
orders, which began with the pickup in the global economy and a
doubling of oil prices from last year’s low to more than $70 a
barrel. About $167 billion may be spent in the deepwater sector
through 2015, Douglas-Westwood Ltd., which advises energy
companies, said before the BP spill.  
 Keppel has booked S$1.7 billion ($1.2 billion) of orders in
2010, compared with a S$2 billion full-year target, according to
Merrill Lynch. Last year, the company had no orders for jack-up
rigs, which are used in waters less than 500 feet deep and have
retractable legs extending to the seafloor.  
 The worldwide fleet of jack-up rigs is an average of about
29 years old, according to  Rigzone , a Houston-based company that
compiles offshore-industry data. There are 514 jack-up rigs and
222 semi-submersibles worldwide, including ones under
construction, according to its website.  
 Keppel Demand  
 Keppel may get orders of as much as S$6 billion a year from
2011 to 2014, helped by replacement demand and contracts in
Brazil, Merrill analyst  Wee Lee Chong  said in a June 7 note. The
Bank of America Corp. unit restarted coverage of the rig-maker
with a “buy”  rating .  
 Seoul-based Samsung Heavy may boost offshore orders almost
seven-fold to $4 billion this year.  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. ,
which built the nine-year-old Deepwater Horizon, plans to raise
oil and gas orders 79 percent and may beat a $4.2 billion target,
it said in March. Deepwater Horizon was owned by Transocean Ltd.  
 Hyundai Heavy, which is based in Ulsan, South Korea, and
Samsung Heavy are targeting orders in the Gulf of Mexico, the
North Sea and Africa. Samsung Heavy also is building floating
production and storage facilities for liquefied natural gas
projects in Australia and the Timor Sea.  
 A six-month U.S. ban on deepwater drilling in the Gulf and
curbs on shallow-water operations while the BP spill is
investigated may damp demand for platforms in the short term. BP,
 ConocoPhillips ,  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Cobalt International
Energy Inc. and Plains Exploration & Production Co. have all put
projects in the region or off California on hold.  
 More than 30 deepwater rigs also stopped work because of
the ban, and these units could be used in regions such as Brazil,
delaying orders there, according to CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.
analyst  Lim Siew Khee . She downgraded Singapore-listed
shipbuilders to “neutral” from “overweight” in a June 9 note.  
 Petrobras Demand  
 Rig-makers are targeting Brazil as state-owned  Petrobras 
intends to invest $220 billion developing oilfields, including
Franco and Tupi, the largest discovered in the Americas in more
than 30 years. The plans include buying 28 locally built drill
ships, which are due to enter service by the end of 2018.  
 Hyundai Heavy and Samsung Heavy have bought stakes in
Brazilian shipyards because of demand from Petrobras, while
Keppel and Singapore-based  Sembcorp Marine Ltd. , the No. 2 maker
of shallow-water rigs, are adding capacity in the country.  
 Keppel’s Headstart  
 Keppel, which has delivered two floating production
platforms to Petrobras and is building a third, may win orders
for seven drill ships next quarter, according to Merrill Lynch.  
 “They have a headstart,” said  Ashwin Sanketh , at CLSA
Asia Pacific Markets analyst in Singapore. “There’s no point
not leveraging on that.”  
 A spokesperson for Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras declined
to comment.  
 Oil companies are developing the Brazilian fields and
exploring other sites because world demand may rise 2.3 percent
by 2015 to 88.4 million barrels a day, according to the
 International Energy Agency  in Paris.  
 “Oil companies still need to find and develop fields
because reserves at existing ones are depleting,” said  Lee Jae Won , an analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc. in Seoul. “There’s
no way the spill will halt offshore projects.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       An oil rig under construction  
                       
                         
                           Jonathan Drake/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A Keppel Corp. employee stands on the helicopter deck of an oil rig under construction at the company's Keppel FELS facility in Singapore. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A Keppel Corp. employee stands on the helicopter deck of an oil rig under construction at the company's Keppel FELS facility in Singapore. Photographer: Jonathan Drake/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
