-- Cablevision Systems Agrees to Buy Bresnan for $1.36 Billion
-- Matthew Boyle
-- 2010-06-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/cablevision-agrees-to-purchase-bresnan-communications-for-1-36-billion.html

          
          
             Cablevision Systems Corp. , the
fifth-largest U.S. cable operator, has agreed to buy Bresnan
Communications Co. for $1.36 billion, people close to the
negotiations said.  
 Cablevision competed against bids from TPG Capital, BC
Partners Ltd., Suddenlink Communications and Ascent Media Corp.,
said one of the people who declined to be identified because the
details aren’t public.  John Malone , chairman of Liberty Media
LLC, owns 30.3 percent of the voting shares of Ascent Media.  
 Bresnan is expected to issue a statement announcing the
deal today, the person said. Jeffrey DeMond, Bresnan’s chief
executive officer, sent an e-mail to employees Sunday evening
telling them Cablevision “emerged as the successful bidder.”  
 Acquiring Bresnan would give Cablevision a bigger slice of
the burgeoning market for high-speed Internet services, where
revenue is expected to rise to $210 billion globally in 2014
from $164 billion in 2009, according to ABI Research in Oyster
Bay, New York.  
 “Bresnan is quite well-run, with well-upgraded systems
that have been aggressively rolling out advanced services,”
wrote analyst  Richard Greenfield  of BTIG LLC in New York, in a
note to clients on June 9. “The quality of the systems is high
and the competitive risks are low.”  
 Cablevision spokeswoman  Kim Kerns  and Andrew Cole,
spokesman for the private-equity firm Providence Equity Partners
Inc. helping sell Bresnan, didn’t respond to a voicemail and e-
mail left for them seeking comment. TPG spokesman  Owen Blicksilver  and BC Partners spokeswoman  Martha Kelly  both
declined to comment.  
 Midwestern Roots  
 Bresnan, based in Purchase, New York, provides broadband-
communication services in Montana, Wyoming, Colorado and Utah
and is 30 percent-owned by  Comcast Corp.  Providence Equity has
hired Credit Suisse Group AG and UBS AG to sell the company for
more than $1 billion including debt, two people with knowledge
of the matter told Bloomberg News earlier this month.  
 Bresnan Communications was founded in 1984 by  William J. Bresnan , who was born in Mankato, Minnesota, according to the
company’s website. Bresnan initially operated cable systems both
in the Upper Midwest and internationally, before focusing on the
Rocky Mountain states, the  website  said.  
 Bresnan, who repurchased the company in 2003 for $525
million with backing from Providence, died last year. DeMond, a
long-time executive who served as chief financial officer and
president, has been CEO since last year.  
 Going West  
 The purchase expands the customer base of Cablevision from
the New York City region into the western U.S. market, which is
attractive because it has lower pay-TV penetration rates than
Cablevision’s home market and no competition from Verizon
Communications Inc.’s fiber-optic TV service. The move will
allow Cablevision to add Bresnan’s 320,000 subscribers to its
more than 3 million. The deal will add to, or at least not hurt,
Cablevision’s free cash flow, BTIG’s Greenfield wrote.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Jim Dolan , whose family controls
Cablevision, spun off the company’s Madison Square Garden unit
this year to concentrate on the more profitable cable assets. On
the company’s May 6 conference call,  Gregg Seibert , an executive
vice president, said the company’s first priority was to use its
free cash flow to invest in and expand the business.  
 Providence is also trying to sell Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.
as the Los Angeles-based film studio, which Providence and other
investors took private for $5 billion in 2005, struggles to
repay $3.7 billion in debt. TPG Capital, Sony Corp. and Comcast
Corp. also participated in that purchase.  
 Cablevision, based in Bethpage, New York, rose 3 cents to
$23.40 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading on June 11.
The stock has gained  9.8 percent  year to date.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net ;
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Acquiring Bresnan would give Cablevision a bigger slice of the burgeoning market for high-speed Internet services. Photographer: Rick Maiman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
