-- Clegg Puts Britain's Budget Deficit Center Stage as Budd Redraws Forecast
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-06-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/clegg-puts-britain-s-budget-deficit-center-stage-as-budd-redraws-forecasts.html

          
          
             Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
will say tackling Britain’s record deficit is the government’s
top priority, as the independent budget office makes new
forecasts that will be used for next week’s  emergency budget .  
 “The extraordinary developments of the last few weeks in
the euro zone matter enormously for the U.K.,” Clegg will say
in a speech in London today, according to extracts released by
his office. “Most immediately, they matter because the attitude
of markets has changed. Markets have stopped believing that all
European governments can service their debts.”  
 Echoing Clegg’s comments, Treasury officials said the
U.K.’s underlying fiscal position is weak, suggesting Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will stick to plans to reduce
spending in the June 22 budget. The Conservative-Liberal
Democrat coalition has warned the cuts will be the deepest since
 Margaret Thatcher  was prime minister in the 1980s and will last
longer than any other since World War II.  
 The Treasury officials said Osborne will focus on the size
of the structural deficit to justify the need for greater fiscal
austerity. The new Office for Budget Responsibility, headed by
former Bank of England policy maker  Alan Budd , will today
provide a snapshot of the economy with new forecasts for both
economic growth and the deficit.  
 The pound has fallen 10 percent against the dollar this
year amid concern the government will struggle to fix the public
finances.  
 Credit Rating  
 Fitch Ratings said last week that Cameron needs to
accelerate budget-deficit cuts to protect Britain’s top credit
rating. It said the U.K. is lagging behind other European
countries in publishing deficit-reduction plans as investor
concerns over government debt loads increase, and that the
increase in debt in Britain had been faster than in any other
AAA-rated country.  
 “There is strong political momentum for early fiscal
consolidation,” said  Michael Saunders , chief Western European
economist at Citigroup Inc. in London. “The economics of fiscal
consolidation are far more favorable than a few quarters ago. A
pessimistic OBR assessment would simply set the stage for bigger
fiscal tightening.”  
 Osborne put Budd at the helm of the budget office last
month to provide economic predictions that are independent of
government in an effort to depoliticize the forecasting process.
 Britain’s deficit  swelled to a postwar record of 11.1 percent of
 gross domestic product  in the year through March.  
 Structural Deficit  
 The Treasury officials said that if Budd forecasts weaker
growth this year and lower trend growth than his Labour
predecessor as chancellor,  Alistair Darling , that will lead
Osborne to assume a larger structural deficit. A structural
deficit will not narrow as the economy recovers and will require
spending cuts or tax increases to correct it.  
 In his last budget in March, before Labour lost the May 6
election, Darling said the economy would expand by as much as
3.5 percent this year and next. He also assumed the long-term
growth average of 2.75 percent.  
 The six-week-old coalition is pinning the blame for the
size of the deficit on Labour, which ruled Britain for 13 years.
 Gordon Brown  was chancellor in  Tony Blair ’s government for 10
years before taking over as prime minister in 2007.  
 Prime Minister  David Cameron  said last week Brown left the
public finances in a worse state than he anticipated and warned
that the squeeze to come will “affect every single person in
our country.” Darling said in March Britain would post a 167
billion-pound ($243 billion) deficit this fiscal year.  
 Value-Added Tax  
 Labour Party officials said Osborne is wrong to focus on
the structural deficit, arguing there is no certainty about its
size. The opposition is urging Osborne to take into account a 10
billion-pound narrowing of the budget shortfall since Darling’s
March budget to soften the planned cuts to public spending. The
officials said Labour is concerned Osborne is preparing the
ground for an increase in value-added tax, a levy on sales, from
17.5 percent.  
 “If it turns out that borrowing is lower than I thought,
then that puts a completely different complexion on things,”
Darling said in an interview with the Guardian newspaper
published June 12. He said that Osborne “is exaggerating the
scale of the difficulties we face in order to justify the things
he has wanted to do anyway.”  
 Fan Chart  
 Budd’s office today will break with Treasury tradition and
publish the growth forecast it sees as most likely, alongside a
fan chart which reflects the probability of missing that target.
The change aligns the government’s forecasting practices with
the Bank of England’s. Previously, the Treasury published a
numerical range to reflect its view.  
 Budd’s forecast document, due to be more than 80 pages
long, will also provide greater detail of the economic
assumptions that underpin its predictions, stretching out over
the full five-year forecast period.  
 The budget office will also include quarterly growth
forecasts for this year and next and will include the effects of
Private Finance Initiative borrowing on Britain’s debt.  
 Separately, the British Chambers of Commerce said today
that Osborne should abandon his pledge to protect spending on
the U.K. health service and development aid in his emergency
budget. London Mayor  Boris Johnson  called on Osborne to keep to
spending commitments on the capital’s infrastructure, including
upgrades to the Underground subway system and construction of
the planned Crossrail train service.  
 Osborne has already found more than 6 billion pounds in
savings and is looking for further reductions to curb the budget
shortfall. Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  yesterday refused to rule
out cuts in military personnel, while Justice Secretary  Kenneth Clarke  told Sky News that “we cannot afford” to keep paying
legal aid at current levels.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.K. deputy prime minister Nick Clegg. Photographer: Rupert Hartley/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- John Wraith, U.K. fixed-income strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, talks about the outlook for the U.K. Office for Budget Responsibility's growth forecasts and gilt yields.
     He speaks with Mark Barton on Bloomberg Television's "Start Up". (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
