-- Currency Collapse May Stimulate Economic Expansion, BIS Says
-- Matthew Brown
-- 2010-06-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/currency-collapse-may-stimulate-a-resumption-of-economic-growth-bis-says.html

          
          
             Currency collapses tend to spur a
resumption of economic growth rather than fueling a decline in
gross domestic product, according to the Bank for International
Settlements.  
 Currency collapses are associated with permanent output
losses of about 6 percent of GDP, on average, though the drop
tends to appear beforehand, the Basel, Switzerland-based BIS
said in its quarterly review yesterday.  
 “This suggests that it may not be the currency collapse
that reduces output, but rather the factors that led to the
depreciation,” Camilo E. Tovar wrote in the study. “To gain a
full understanding of the implications of currency collapses on
economic activity it is important to carefully examine the full
circle of events surrounding the episode.”  
 The positive effects of a weaker currency on GDP, including
making local products cheaper than imported goods, may outweigh
the negative ones, such as rising inflation. Currency collapses
occur when the annual exchange rate drops by about 22 percent,
according to the BIS, which identified 79 such episodes, “more
commonly in Africa than in Asia or Latin America,” since 1960,
Tovar said.  
 “They also occurred under all types of currency regimes,
except possible floating-exchange-rate regimes, where there are
simply too few observations to obtain meaningful estimates,”
the BIS said.  
 Economic Contraction  
 The euro tumbled about 20 percent against the dollar
between Nov. 25, 2009, and last week as investor concern over
record budget deficits in countries including Greece spurred
speculation the 16-nation currency union may split. The European
Union in May crafted a 750 billion-euro ($908 billion) rescue
package to stem the crisis.  
 Greece’s economy will contract 3.9 percent this year and
1.2 percent in 2011, after shrinking 2 percent in 2009,
according to the median of eight economist estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The euro-region will expand by 1.1 percent this year
and 1.5 percent in 2011, after falling 4.1 percent last year,
median forecasts show.  
 Hans-Werner Sinn , president of Germany’s Ifo economic
institute, said on June 3 that it would be best for Greece to
leave the euro instead of implementing an austerity program to
reduce its deficit. Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
pledged budget cuts worth almost 14 percent of GDP to bring the
deficit within the EU limit of 3 percent by the end of 2014.  
 “The real solution for Greece would be to leave the euro
followed by a depreciation” of the new currency, Sinn said in an
interview at a conference in Interlaken, Switzerland.  
 Growth May ‘Dominate’  
 European Central Bank Executive Board member  Lorenzo Bini Smaghi  said on May 28 that there are “no alternatives” for
Greece beyond following the austerity program.  
 “Before drawing policy conclusions we should emphasise that
these results are subject to a number of caveats,” the BIS said
in the report. “Most importantly, the analysis does not address
the reasons why currency collapses occur in the first place. Our
analysis also has little to say about the mechanisms involved
after the currency collapse takes place. While we cannot
disentangle the various factors, our results do suggest that
expansionary mechanisms tend to dominate.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi  
                       
                         
                           Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, pauses during a news conference in Berlin. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, pauses during a news conference in Berlin. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
