-- Dubai Holding Dissolved Board of Dubai International Capital in January
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-06-13T12:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/dubai-holding-dissolved-board-of-dubai-international-captial-in-january.html

          
          
             Dubai International Capital LLC, the
investment company owned by Dubai ruler  Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid  al Maktoum, said its board was dissolved in January after
a newspaper reported today its non-executive chairman resigned.  
 The board was dissolved by its parent company, Dubai
Holding, to implement a new governance structure, Dubai
International said in an e-mailed statement today. DIC is  now
under the direct supervision of Dubai Holding, though all sub-
committees of the DIC board including investment and audit
committees remain in place, the company said.  
 Sameer Al Ansari , the non-executive chairman of Dubai
International, has resigned,  The Sunday Times  reported today
without citing anyone. Ansari quit because of “the poor
performance” of the company’s investments, the newspaper said.
Ansari also left DIC’s investment committee, and the boards of
Travelodge Ltd. and Doncasters Plc, according to the newspaper.  
 Al Ansari quit as executive chairman of Dubai International
in January to focus on his duties as chief executive officer of
Shuaa Capital PSC, a Dubai-based investment bank in which DIC’s
sister company bought a controlling 48.4 percent stake. Al
Ansari was appointed to the Shuaa position in August.  
 Dubai International in May sought a three-month extension
on some of its loan payments. DIC, which has a $1.25 billion
loan due in June, and a coordinating committee of banks
requested an extension until Sept. 30 to develop a plan “that
would enable DIC to maximize the value of its business for the
benefit of all its stakeholders,” it said at the time.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        