-- U.S. Economy Slows as States Lose Federal Stimulus Funds
-- Anthony Feld
-- 2010-06-13T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/economy-in-u-s-slows-as-state-governments-lose-federal-stimulus-benefits.html

          
          
             Spending cuts by state and local
governments from  New York  to  California  may act as a drag on the
economy into 2011, only the second time in more than a half
century that such reductions have restricted growth for three
consecutive years.  
 States face a cumulative budget gap of $127.4 billion as 46
prepare for the start of their fiscal year on July 1, according
to a  report  this month by the National Governors Association and
the National Association of State Budget Officers. They will
have to fill that hole largely on their own, as aid from the
federal government under programs including President  Barack Obama ’s $787 billion stimulus package starts to wind down.  
 State and local cutbacks may trim growth by about a quarter
percentage point in 2010 and 2011 after shaving it by 0.02 point
in 2010, said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics
Inc. He also sees the governments lopping payrolls by 200,000
during the next year after reducing them by 190,000 in the 12
months through May.  
 “The budget cutting that is dead ahead will be a
significant impediment to economic growth later this year into
2011,” he said in an interview.  
 That impact will help convince Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues to keep the federal funds rate
banks charge each other for overnight loans at zero to 0.25
percent through the end of this year, said  John Lonski , chief
economist at Moody’s Capital Markets Group in New York.  
 ‘Fiscal Drag’  
 “This type of fiscal drag on economic activity makes it
all the more likely that the fed funds rate will remain
extraordinarily low for an extended period,” he said in an
interview. “I don’t think that it’s lightening up anytime
soon.” The rate has been near zero  since December 2008 .  
 Bernanke singled out “pressures on state and local
budgets” as one impediment to expansion during his testimony to
the House Budget Committee on June 9. Municipal governments
account for about 13 percent of U.S. gross domestic product.  
 Warren Buffett , whose  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  has been
paring its municipal-bond portfolio, predicted a “terrible
problem” for state and local government debt in June 2
testimony to the U.S. Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in New
York. The Omaha, Nebraska-based company cut its municipal
holdings to less than $3.9 billion as of March 31 from more than
$4.7 billion at the end of 2008, according to the company’s
first-quarter report.  
 ‘Extreme Financial Difficulty’  
 Buffett, Berkshire’s chief executive officer, predicted in
May the U.S. probably will feel compelled to rescue a state
facing “extreme financial difficulty” after it committed $700
billion to bail out financial firms and automakers.  
 Credit default swaps of five states -- California,
Illinois, Michigan, New Jersey and New York -- have risen an
average of 91.5 basis points since May 3, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, as bondholders seek protection. Credit
swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  
 Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell  said he doesn’t think the
federal government will have to bail out any state.  
 “I don’t see that,” he said in a June 3 interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.”
“And it’s not at that point in  Pennsylvania .” The state “just
sold on Wall Street the biggest bond offering since the
recession, over $1 billion,” he said. “We had our lowest
interest rate ever: 3.1 percent.”  
 ‘Too Low’  
 Such yields are “just too low” for many investors,  Matt Fabian , managing director of Municipal Market Advisors in
Westport, Connecticut, said in a June 9 interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop with Betty Liu.”  
 “On the presumption that income-tax rates are going to be
rising over the next year or two years, then these may in the
end be attractive levels, but it’s hard to say right now,” he
added.  
 Rendell joined fellow Democratic governors of  Washington ,
 Kansas  and  Wisconsin  on June 9 to press Congress to pass a six-
month extension for increased federal spending on the Medicaid
health program for the poor.  
 “If we don’t do this, I think this will put us back in a
recession,” Rendell said in a conference call with reporters.
Without the extension, the extra payments will end Dec. 31.  
 The aid is part of a broader jobs bill the Senate began
considering last week. The House passed a different employment
bill last month that didn’t include the Medicaid provision
because of lawmaker concern about the $1.6 trillion federal
budget deficit.  
 Declining Payrolls  
 State and local governments will have to dismiss 162,000
workers if Congress fails to extend about $24 billion of
Medicaid payments,  Lawrence Mishel , president of the Economic
Policy Institute in Washington, said during the governors’ call.
Payrolls have already registered 11 straight months of year-
over-year declines, the longest stretch of continuous drops
since 1983, based on Labor Department data.  
 Spending cuts by state and local governments chopped 0.49
percentage point off GDP in the first quarter, the most since
1981, as the economy expanded 3 percent. The impact of the
budget squeeze probably was larger than that, as the GDP data
don’t break out the effects of tax increases on growth, Zandi
said.  
 States raised taxes and fees by almost $23.9 billion in
fiscal 2010, according to the report by the Washington-based
associations for  state governors  and  state budget officers .
Forty states, including  Florida , California and New York, made
mid-year budget cuts totaling $22 billion, the report said.  
 Balanced-Budget Laws  
 Policy makers in a number of states are having trouble
agreeing on further steps to resolve their financial problems.
Action is necessary because every state except  Vermont  has some
sort of balanced-budget law.  
 California, with a $1.8 trillion economy that’s bigger than
Russia’s, faces a $19 billion deficit. Republican Governor
 Arnold Schwarzenegger  wants deeper spending cuts, including
elimination of the main welfare program for the poor, while
Democratic lawmakers have backed tax increases.  
 New York, the third-most populous U.S. state, has been
operating under weekly spending bills because lawmakers haven’t
agreed on a comprehensive budget to close a projected $8.5
billion gap for the fiscal year that began April 1.  
 Illinois Rate Cut  
 Illinois , with a deficit equal to half its $25.9 billion
budget, saw its debt rating cut after it failed to “enact
significant recurring measures” to reduce the shortfall,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a June 4 press release. The
New York-based agency reduced the rating on $29 billion of
general-obligation debt by one level to A1, putting Illinois on
par with California as the lowest-rated U.S. state.  
 States “expect 2011 to be as bad as 2010,” said  Raymond Scheppach , executive director of the governors’ association.
They “will not begin the path to recovery until 2012.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rich Miller  in Washington 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pennsylvania Governor Ed Rendell speaks during a Convention at the Pepsi Center in Denver. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 3 (Bloomberg) -- Pennsylvania Governor Edward Rendell speaks with Bloomberg's Margaret Brennan about the state's budget gap.
     Rendell said he sees “signs of recovery’ for states and cities. Rendell, a Democrat in his final year in office, said he expects Pennsylvania to address its revenue shortage by cutting expenditures and imposing new taxes on cigars, smokeless tobacco and natural gas extracted from the Marcellus Shale formations in the northern part of the state.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 9 (Bloomberg) -- Matt Fabian, managing director of Municipal Market Advisors, talks with Bloomberg's Betty Liu about the impact of the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico on municipal debt markets. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 11 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Shiller, an economics professor at Yale University and chief economist at MacroMarkets LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about the U.S. economy, consumer spending and the outlook for U.S. stocks and the housing market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Stephen Biggar, director of equity research at Standard and Poor's, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about his investment strategy for U.S. stocks. 
     Biggar, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for global financial markets and Europe's debt crisis. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
