-- Hedge Funds Turn Mutual Funds to Short-Circuit European Rules With Newcits
-- Tom Cahill
-- 2010-06-14T12:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/hedge-funds-turn-mutual-funds-to-short-circuit-european-rules-with-newcits.html

          
          
             Guy Hurley  said he’s not sweating
European plans for new hedge-fund rules after leaving  Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co.  a year ago to start an
onshore fund that uses strategies such as merger arbitrage.  
 “It’s not material to us because we’re not a hedge fund,
we’re a mutual fund,” Hurley, founder of HCM (UK) Ltd., said in
an interview at the firm’s headquarters on Grafton Street in
Mayfair, the heart of London’s hedge-fund district. “Because we
are in the Ucits business, we fully comply with European
regulations already.”  
 Ucits , European funds known by the acronym for Undertakings
for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities, are the
fastest-growing segment of the $1.7 trillion industry. Brevan
Howard Asset Management LP, York Capital Management LLC,
Marshall Wace LLP and rivals started more than 400 of them in
the past two years to offer easier trading, more transparency
and regulatory scrutiny than standard hedge funds.  
 Strategic Investments Group  in London and Permal Group, a
$20 billion hedge-fund investor owned by Baltimore’s  Legg Mason
Inc. , today said they began a $250 million Ucits fund.
Alternative Advisors LLP, a London-based investment boutique,
said it will start a 60 million-euro ($74 million) fund on June
16.  
 Pfaeffikon, Switzerland-based LGT Capital Partners Ltd.,
which opened the  Crown Managed Futures  Ucits fund last month
with $25 million, expects to manage “half a billion” in three
years, said  Edward Cartwright , head of U.K. wealth-management
distribution.  
 Crisis Conditions  
 GAIM International , Europe’s largest hedge-fund gathering,
starts today in Monaco with a day of sessions dedicated to the
funds, sometimes called Newcits.  
 Some regulators and investors question whether the
instruments will be able to meet promises, such as returning
cash quickly to clients, when tested in a crisis like the
banking squeeze that followed the September 2008 collapse of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.   
 The funds use a version of rules adopted in 2001 that allow
investments on rising and falling prices through derivatives,
with transparency of holdings more like mutual funds. Ucits,
usually based in Luxembourg or Dublin, where regulators are most
familiar with the format, are gaining popularity in part because
they’re exempt from the European Union’s proposed Alternative
Investment Fund Management Directive, which would limit the
access of funds domiciled in the Cayman Islands and elsewhere
outside the 27-nation nation bloc.  
 ‘Shoehorn’ Approach  
 Lawmakers will publish a final version of the proposal in
July, over objections from the U.S. and the U.K., where 80
percent of Europe’s hedge funds are managed.  
 “With all the offshore guys who desperately want an
onshore strategy to get them through the gate of EU regulation,
some of those will inevitably try to shoehorn a strategy into a
Ucits wrapper that shouldn’t be there,” said  Chris Wyllie , a
partner with  Iveagh Ltd.,  the London-based investment firm set
up by the Guinness family, which has about 100 million pounds
($145 million) in the funds. “There’s bound to be a test
case.”  
 Ucits assets overseen by hedge funds more than tripled in
nine months to about $70 billion, according to Dublin-based
 Carne Global Financial Services Ltd.  The firms had almost
nothing in Ucits 18 months ago, said Carne Global, which helped
hedge-fund managers start 50 of the funds in the past three
years.  
 ‘Not Rocket Science’  
 Driving demand is the ability of clients to withdraw money
in as little as a day, compared with monthly or quarterly
withdrawals for most conventional funds. Some hedge funds failed
to meet those terms after the industry suffered its biggest
losses on record two years ago. More than 83 percent of
investors said they faced restrictions on pulling out money from
hedge funds in 2008 and 2009, according to a Deutsche Bank AG
survey.  
 “If you’re investing and someone gives you a choice of
offshore with limited liquidity and onshore with daily
liquidity, it’s not rocket science to figure out which investors
will select,” said  Philippe Bonnefoy , founder of Geneva-based
 Cedar Partners  (Suisse) SA.  
 He is opening a Dublin-domiciled Ucits fund, his first
onshore fund after investing offshore since 1989. “Few
continental European investors want anything other than Ucits
now,” Bonnefoy said.  
 ‘Locust’ Label  
 The funds are required to have independent boards,
custodians, administrators and auditors, all of whom must be
supervised by a European regulator. Securities held by Ucits
can’t be re-hypothecated, or lent out, a financing technique
that tied up billions of dollars in hedge-fund assets in
Lehman’s bankruptcy. The funds’ leverage, or borrowing, is
limited and they can’t directly sell short, or bet on falling
prices. They can use derivatives to wager on price declines.  
 Ucits show net asset values daily, as opposed to monthly
with the typical hedge fund, and are required to fully disclose
positions twice a year, according to Carne Global.  
 For some institutions, Ucits are a way to invest in hedge-
fund strategies without invoking the ire of politicians or
unions who regard them as “locusts,” as they’ve been called in
Germany.  
 “In some markets such as Germany, branding yourself a
hedge fund is an absolute no-no,” said  Marilyn Ramplin , who
left  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  in March to start  Ramplin Capital ,
which helps set up the funds.  
 Betting Against Debt  
 The funds can use derivatives to bet against sovereign
debt, a practice French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  want to curb, according to Grellan
O’Kelly, who oversees derivatives and risk management for the
 Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority . Funds can take
currency positions, O’Kelly said.  
 “Ucits, however, are not going to bring down Greece,”
said O’Kelly, who speaks today at the GAIM conference. “There’s
a limit to how much exposure they can have.”  
 While hedge funds are new to Ucits, the structure started
in 1985 to allow access to individual investors through Europe’s
common market with the approval of one member state. About $7
trillion is managed in the format by mutual funds, according to
Carne Global. At least 70 percent of the publicly sold funds in
Asia are Ucits, the firm said.  
 The U.K.’s Financial Service Authority, which oversees
hedge-fund managers based there, said the firms may be ill-
equipped to handle individual investor demands.  
 Jumping on the Bandwagon  
 Hedge-fund managers are getting on what looks like a Ucits
“bandwagon,”  Dan Waters , the FSA’s director of conduct risk
and sector leader for asset management, said in a Jan. 25  speech 
in London.  
 “We say ‘no’ on a regular basis,” O’Kelly said in a June
10 telephone interview from Dublin. “We’re not going to make
the regulatory framework fit the fund. It has to be the other
way around.”  
 Some hedge-fund allocators aren’t convinced the funds will
be able to return capital as easily as they promise without
hurting positions held by offshore funds run by the same
managers.  
 “We haven’t seen these go through a stress period yet,”
said  Penny Aitken , investment manager of  FQS Capital Management ,
a London-based fund-of-hedge-funds firm set up with $350 million
last year by Robert Frey, a former managing director of
Renaissance Technologies Corp. “When some of the larger
institutions need to exit in significant size that should have
an impact on other, smaller investors.”  
 ‘Where the Money Is’  
 Even some of the firms setting up the funds are concerned
that rivals may offer better trading terms than they’ll actually
be able to deliver.  
 “There can be blowups on the Ucits side as well,” said
Werner von Baum, partner of LGT. “People have to look at not
just the framework but the content. It’s not enough to say the
liquidity will be there.”  
 Proponents of Ucits say they bring in capital after it
dried up from traditional investors such as funds of funds,
whose ranks have thinned for seven straight quarters, according
to Chicago-based  Hedge Fund Research Inc.   
 “This is where the money is,” said John Donohoe, chief
executive officer of Carne Global. “European investors are
saying they want to be in regulated funds.”  
 Start-Up Costs  
 While managers may look at Ucits as a way to circumvent
hedge-fund and private-equity proposals that would restrict
borrowing and pay, they aren’t likely to make a decision until
EU officials in Brussels finish the plan, said  Joe Seet , senior
partner at  Sigma Partnership , a London hedge-fund advisory firm.
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has raised concerns
that the plan may discriminate against U.S. firms.  
 The cost of setting up the funds may be too steep for
smaller U.S. managers, said Seet, who factors in legal fees and
expenses such as $50,000 a year plus travel for two Irish
directors at each Dublin-registered fund.  
 “Everyone is holding fire,” said Seet, who estimates a
manager needs to add $150 million to $200 million in assets via
Ucits investors to justify the roll-out. “One of the biggest
issues is whether they need to switch custodians to European
custodians. European banks are bust, why should you be forced to
give them your money?”  
 Ucits hedge funds as a group were outperformed by  standard
hedge funds  over the last three years, according to Singapore-
based research firm  Eurekahedge Pte . Its index measuring regular
hedge funds gained 20 percent in 2009, compared with almost 15
percent by one tracking Ucits funds, Eurekahedge said.  
 Tracking Error  
 Traditional funds used leverage to increase returns, the
firm said. Strategies including distressed debt and event-driven
investing, or seeking to exploit prices before or after
corporate events such as mergers, helped standard funds while
being little used in the Ucits world.  
 “The key difference with Ucits is the liquidity
requirements -- if a fund can only take a subset of some
strategies that will create a tracking error,” said  Deepak Gurnani , chief investment officer of Investcorp Investment
Advisers LLC in New York, which manages about $4.5 billion in
hedge funds, none in Ucits structures. “Regulation and
transparency are all good things, but you have to understand
exactly what can go into it, otherwise you may be
disappointed.”  
 ‘Real Winners’  
 Philippe Jabre , founder of Geneva-based Jabre Capital
Partners SA, teamed with Pictet & Cie, Switzerland’s biggest
closely held private bank, to raise 800 million euros ($969
million) in February for a convertible-bond  fund  incorporated in
Luxembourg. Jabre, who manages more than $5 billion, plans to
seek $700 million for a second Ucits fund domiciled there that
will match his Cayman Islands-based  JabCap Global Balanced Fund
Ltd .  
 Creating a Ucits fund doesn’t guarantee assets will flow.  
 Brevan Howard said in February it was changing managers on
its  Brevan Howard Absolute Return Bond Plus Fund  after it
generated “little investor interest,” according to a letter
obtained by Bloomberg News. Brevan Howard, based in London, is
Europe’s largest hedge-fund firm.  
 “There’s a good handful of funds going into it when they
shouldn’t and others that could become $100 billion
businesses,” said Ole Rollag, founder of London’s Perfecta
Partners Ltd., an adviser to hedge funds. “There are going to
be a handful of real winners.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Cahill  in London at 
 tcahill@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        