-- Euro Volatility Signaling Weakness as Traders Lose Confidence in Currency
-- Bo Nielsen
-- 2010-06-14T11:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/euro-volatility-signaling-weakness-as-traders-lose-confidence-in-currency.html

          
          
             The biggest currency  fluctuations 
since the aftermath of the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. are signaling waning confidence in the economic recovery
and prospects for a rebound in the euro.  
 The euro’s 15 percent plunge against the dollar this year
sparked a 6 percent loss for bets tied to foreign-exchange price
volatility, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
indexes. That’s the worst performance among four currency
strategies tracked by RBS and compares with a 22 percent gain
last year, when the global economy rebounded.  
 Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, the failure of regional
leaders to improve sentiment toward the euro and diverging
growth rates around the world means elevated volatility for
years, according to UBS AG, the world’s second-biggest currency
trader. Less predictable foreign-exchange levels may endanger
the recovery by driving up short-term  rates , even as a weaker
euro stimulates exports, the Zurich-based bank said.  
 “The sources of concern won’t go away anytime soon,” said
 Dale Thomas , head of currencies in London at Insight Investment
Management Ltd., which oversees about $144 billion. “We’re
defensive and still don’t like the euro.” Thomas said he owns
the Swiss franc and the Japanese yen.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reversed its forecast for the euro
last week, saying it will drop to about a seven-year low of
$1.15 by year-end as the European debt crisis deepens. The New
York-based firm previously predicted $1.35. Royal Bank of Canada
said June 7 the euro will depreciate to $1.10 in a year, after
earlier forecasting $1.21, on reduced demand for the currency.  
 Market Volatility  
 The euro traded today at $1.2229, down from $1.4321 at the
end of 2009. Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes show it
depreciated in seven of the past eight weeks.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G7 Volatility Index shows implied
volatility for the most-traded currencies, including the dollar
and the yen, reached the highest since April 2009 last month.
The measure jumped to 16.95, from 10.47 in April, before ending
at 13.43 on June 11.  
 Prices swings increased even after the European Union
crafted a $1 trillion aid package last month to support the
region’s most indebted nations and the European Central Bank
began buying bonds of member states to drive down yields.  
 Policy makers in Spain and Portugal now face the risk of
labor unrest as they adopt austerity measures to show investors
they won’t join Greece in requiring a bailout.  
 ‘Far From Over’  
 “The collapse of the financial system as we know it is
real, and the crisis is far from over,” billionaire  George Soros , the founder of Soros Fund Management LLC, said on June 10
at a conference in Vienna. “We have just entered Act II of the
drama.”  
 The World Bank in Washington echoed Soros’ concerns, saying
some European nations may experience a second economic slowdown
if the region fails to manage its debt crisis, threatening
countries from Central Asia to Latin America.  
 “We’re expecting that growth in the second quarter is also
likely to be disappointing, quite possibly seeing negative
growth in several European countries and a double dip in some of
these economies,”  Andrew Burns , the World Bank’s manager of
global macroeconomics, said at a press briefing.  
 Volatility has shaken more than currency markets. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 8.2 percent last month, the
most since a 75 percent surge began in March 2009 through the
end of April.  
 ‘Next Phase’  
 “The first round of currency volatility was driven by
concerns about euro-zone sovereign risks,” said  Olivier Korber ,
a currency-derivatives strategist at Societe Generale SA in
Paris. “The next phase will come from the divergence in global
economic policies and central-bank exits.”  
 While the fiscal crisis will compel the ECB to keep its
main interest rate at 1 percent until the second quarter of
2011, the Federal Reserve will raise its key rate in the first
three months of the year, according to Bloomberg surveys of
economists. Central banks in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and
Norway have increased borrowing costs this year to check
inflation and prevent asset bubbles.  
 Risks to the global economic outlook have “risen
significantly,” International Monetary Fund Deputy Managing
Director  Naoyuki Shinohara  said in Singapore on June 9. “After
nearly two years of global economic and financial upheaval,
shockwaves are still being felt, as we have seen with recent
developments in Europe and the resulting financial market
volatility.”  
 Implied Volatility  
 One-month implied volatility for the euro versus the dollar
rose to 18.6 percent on May 21, the highest level in 14 months.
It also exceeds the 11.4 percent average in the past year. The
measure will average closer to 15 percent in the future, said
 Mansoor Mohi-uddin , the Singapore-based head of currency
strategy at UBS.  
 Fifty-nine percent of 275 U.S. companies in a survey by
Wayne, Pennsylvania-based SunGard Data Systems Inc. last month
said currency fluctuations had a “material” effect on net
income, up from 40 percent in the previous study. Volatility
resulted in a gain or loss of at least 5 percent in the 12
months ended March 31, the company said.  
 “We now live in a much more uncertain world,” Mohi-uddin
said. “The epicenter of the crisis keeps shifting, starting out
in the U.S. housing market, then it went to the global financial
markets and now it’s in Europe.”  
 Summer Slowdown  
 Volatility will slow this summer as the economic rebound
deepens and the funding needs of Greece and Spain abate, easing
concern about contagion from the euro-region’s debt crisis, said
 Henrik Gullberg , a London-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, the
world’s biggest currency dealer.  
 “If you look at the euro, the price action is becoming
increasingly stretched and it’s time for consolidation, which
normally entails lower volatility,” he said. “Any renewed rise
in volatility by the end of the year will be limited by the
continuing economic recovery.”  
 The euro will rebound to $1.30 by year-end as investor
concern about sovereign debt shifts to the U.S., he said.  
 Losses from employing a short-volatility  strategy , where
investors sell options protecting buyers against currency
swings, compare with a more than 7 percent gain this year from a
trend-following plan, the RBS indexes show. Using a valuation
strategy, where investors buy currencies they speculate have
fallen too far, would have returned 4.5 percent.  
 Carry Trades  
 Returns from using a carry-trade strategy, where investors
sell low-yielding currencies such as the yen to buy higher-
yielding counterparts including the Australian dollar, fell 5.7
percent last month, the biggest drop since October 2008, just
after Lehman’s collapse, according to the RBS indexes. The yen
climbed 5.8 percent against the Aussie and 19 percent versus the
euro this year.  
 Foreign-exchange fluctuations are also leading Asian
exporters to seek currency controls. Central banks in South
Korea, Taiwan and China are selling their own currencies,
limiting investment inflows and delaying rate increases.  
 “The sources of volatility are clearly still with us,”
said  Jerome Booth , who helps oversee about $33 billion as the
London-based head of research at Ashmore Investment Management
Ltd. “Volatility is likely to go up, not down.”  
 German Exports  
 The 15 percent slide of the euro against the yuan this year
makes European goods more competitive in Asia and reduced the
need for appreciation of the Chinese currency against the
dollar. ING Groep NV said June 10 China won’t end the yuan’s 23-
month peg to the dollar for a year.  
 German  exports  jumped 2.6 percent in the first quarter from
the last three months of 2009, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said on May 21. While exports declined in April, they
surged the most in 18 years in March, the statistics bureau
reported on June 8 and May 10.  
 Finance ministers in Europe have indicated they’re in no
rush to stem the euro’s slide against the dollar, saying the
current level may underpin the recovery. The currency had been
“too strong for the economy,” Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  said in Luxembourg on June 7. A $1.20 rate “is not so
bad for competitiveness.”  
 The euro averaged $1.3576 in March, down from a 2009 high
of $1.5144 on Nov. 25. A dollar-based investor who bought the
 Euro Stoxx 50 Index , which tracks equities in countries sharing
the euro, at the start of the year has lost 11 percent on the
shares and 25 percent when accounting for currency losses. The
S&P 500 dropped 2.1 percent in the period.  
 Goldman Sachs cut its three-month and six-month euro
targets to $1.15, from $1.35, saying it was “wrong” in
assuming European growth would accelerate, while the U.S.
slowed, according to a June 9 report.  
 “European politics remained a major source of
uncertainty,” analysts including  Thomas Stolper  at Goldman
Sachs in London wrote. “The likelihood of continued policy
mishaps remains very high in the near term and as a result, the
euro will likely remain under pressure.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bo Nielsen  in Copenhagen at 
 bnielsen4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Euro bank notes  
                       
                         
                           Kostas Tsironis/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The euro closed last week at $1.2112, down from $1.4321 at the end of 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The euro closed last week at $1.2112, down from $1.4321 at the end of 2009. Photographer: Kostas Tsironis/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 11 (Bloomberg) -- Nobel Prize winning economist Robert Mundell talks with Bloomberg's Matt Miller and Dominic Chu about the euro and the dollar's impact on the U.S. economic recovery.
     Mundell also discusses the role of the Federal Reserve in the currency market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
