-- Lewis Hamilton Tops Formula 1 Standings After McLaren 1-2 in Canada
-- Peter-Joseph Hegarty
-- 2010-06-13T22:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/lewis-hamilton-tops-formula-1-standings-after-mclaren-1-2-in-canada.html

          
          
             Lewis Hamilton  returned to the top
of the Formula One drivers’ standings after he and  Jenson Button 
clinched a 1-2 finish for McLaren in yesterday’s Canadian Grand
Prix in Montreal.  
 Fernando Alonso  of Ferrari was third after the 70-lap race,
the eighth event of the Formula One season. It was McLaren’s
second straight 1-2 and its third of the campaign.  
 “It’s been a tremendous weekend, it’s been fantastic,”
Hamilton told the post-race news conference after his second
straight win. “Tremendous support from the fans and the team
did an exceptional job. It was one of the toughest races so
far.”  
 Hamilton, the 2008 series champion, got the first F-1 win
of his career at Montreal in June 2007. He started in pole
position yesterday, breaking the stranglehold of the Red Bull
team on the first seven races.  
 The Briton kept the lead at the start, followed by Red
Bull’s  Sebastian Vettel  and Alonso, while  Mark Webber  made up
ground from seventh to fifth, then overhauled Button to go
fourth. Red Bull’s Webber had been demoted from second on the
grid to seventh because of a gearbox change.  
 Vettel pressed Hamilton hard at the front, then took over
with Webber when Hamilton and Alonso went into the pits.  
 A flurry of pit stops followed as teams tried to find the
best mix of tire changes. McLaren’s strategy paid off after they
chose softer tires for the early part of the race, while the
harder-variety compound proved more susceptible to degradation
than expected and caused problems for the Red Bull.  
 ‘Difficult’ Race  
 After a cat-and-mouse tussle with Alonso and Webber,
Hamilton re-took the lead with 20 laps to go, then several laps
later Button went past Alonso to go second after the Spaniard
was held up by Hispania’s  Karun Chandhok .  
 As the race went into the final laps, Hamilton stepped up
the pace ahead of Button and Alonso. Vettel and teammate Webber
finished fourth and fifth.  
 “This was a very difficult type of race because the tires
are so important,” 2009 F-1 series champion Button said. “It
was a tough race and fighting through the traffic was important.
Congratulations to Lewis, he did a phenomenal (qualifying) lap
on Saturday that I couldn’t touch.”  
 Hamilton leads the standings on 109 points, followed by
Button on 106, Webber on 103, Alonso with 94 and Vettel on 90.  
 “We overtook Lewis thanks to a fantastic pit stop but then
lost the position with some traffic,” Alonso said. “We lost
another position to Jenson in the last laps with more traffic,
so we lost 10 points. We are still in the championship, we are
moving in the right direction and we are back in the fight.”  
 Webber had led the standings going into yesterday’s race,
even after he and teammate Vettel crashed into each other in the
last race in Turkey.  
 McLaren stretched its lead in the constructors’ standings
and has 215 points, with Red Bull on 193 and Ferrari on 161.  
 The next race, the European Grand Prix, is at Valencia on
June 27.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        