-- Lewis Hamilton Tops Formula One Standings After McLaren 1-2 in Canada
-- Peter-Joseph Hegarty
-- 2010-06-13T18:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/lewis-hamilton-tops-formula-one-standings-after-mclaren-1-2-in-canada.html

          
          
             Lewis Hamilton  returned to the top
of the Formula One drivers’ standings after he and  Jenson Button 
clinched a 1-2 finish for McLaren in today’s Canadian Grand Prix
in Montreal.  
 Fernando Alonso  of Ferrari was third after the 70-lap race,
the eighth event of the Formula One season. It was McLaren’s
second straight 1-2 and the third of the campaign.  
 “It’s been a tremendous weekend, it’s been fantastic,”
Hamilton told the post-race news conference after his second
straight win. “The team did an exceptional job, it was one of
the toughest races so far.”  
 Hamilton started in pole position, breaking the
stranglehold of the Red Bulls in the first seven races.  
 The Briton kept the lead at the start, followed by Red
Bull’s  Sebastian Vettel  and Alonso, while  Mark Webber  made up
ground from seventh to fifth, then overhauled Button to go
fourth. Red Bull’s Webber had been demoted from second on the
grid to seventh because of a gearbox change.  
 Vettel pressed Hamilton hard at the front, then took over
with Webber when Hamilton and Alonso went into the pits.  
 A flurry of pit stops followed as teams tried to find the
best mix of tire changes, the harder-variety compound proving
more susceptible to degradation than had been expected.  
 In a key moment at lap 50, Hamilton overtook Alonso, who’d
gone into the lead, then several laps later Button also went
past the Spaniard as he was help up by Hispania’s  Karun Chandhok . That put the McLaren pair at the front.  
 Leads Standings  
 As the race went into the final laps, Hamilton stepped up
the pace ahead of Button and Alonso. Vettel and teammate Webber
finished fourth and fifth.  
 Hamilton leads the standings on 109 points, followed by
Button on 106, Webber on 103, Alonso with 94 and Vettel on 90.  
 Webber had led the standings going into today’s race, even
after he and teammate Vettel crashed together in the last race
in Turkey.  
 McLaren stretched its lead in the constructors’ standings
and has 215 points, with Red Bull on 193 and Ferrari on 161.  
 The next race, the European Grand Prix, is at Valencia on
June 27.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        