-- Fannie-Freddie Fix at $160 Billion With $1 Trillion Worst Case
-- John Gittelsohn
-- 2010-06-13T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/fannie-freddie-fix-expands-to-160-billion-with-worst-case-at-1-trillion.html

          
          
             The cost of fixing Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , the mortgage companies that last year bought or
guaranteed three-quarters of all U.S. home loans, will be at
least $160 billion and could grow to as much as $1 trillion
after the biggest bailout in American history.  
 Fannie and Freddie, now 80 percent owned by U.S. taxpayers,
already have drawn $145 billion from an unlimited line of
government credit granted to ensure that home buyers can get
loans while the private housing-finance industry is moribund.
That surpasses the amount spent on rescues of  American
International Group Inc .,  General Motors Co . or  Citigroup Inc .,
which have begun repaying their debts.  
 “It is the mother of all bailouts,” said Edward Pinto, a
former chief credit officer at Fannie Mae, who is now a
consultant to the mortgage-finance industry.  
 Fannie, based in Washington, and Freddie in McLean,  Virginia , own or guarantee 53 percent of the nation’s $10.7
trillion in residential mortgages, according to a June 10
 Federal Reserve report . Millions of bad loans issued during the
housing bubble remain on their books, and delinquencies continue
to rise. How deep in the hole Fannie and Freddie go depends on
unemployment,  interest rates  and other drivers of  home prices ,
according to the companies and economists who study them.  
 ‘Worst-Case Scenario’  
 The  Congressional Budget Office  calculated in August 2009
that the companies would need $389 billion in federal subsidies
through 2019, based on assumptions about delinquency rates of
loans in their securities pools. The White House’s Office of
Management and Budget estimated in February that aid could total
as little as $160 billion if the economy strengthens.  
 If housing prices drop further, the companies may need
more. Barclays Capital Inc. analysts put the price tag as high
as $500 billion in a December report on mortgage-backed
securities, assuming home prices decline another 20 percent and
default rates triple.  
   Sean Egan , president of Egan-Jones Ratings Co. in
Haverford, Pennsylvania, said that a 20 percent loss on the
companies’ loans and guarantees, along the lines of other large
market players such as Countrywide Financial Corp., now owned by  Bank of America Corp ., could cause even more damage.  
 “One trillion dollars is a reasonable worst-case scenario
for the companies,” said Egan, whose firm warned customers away
from municipal bond insurers in 2002 and downgraded Enron Corp.
a month before its 2001 collapse.  
 Unfinished Business  
 A 20 percent decline in housing prices is possible, said
David Rosenberg, chief economist for Gluskin Sheff & Associates
Inc. in Toronto. Rosenberg, whose forecasts are more pessimistic
than those of other economists, predicts a 15 percent drop.  
 “Worst case is probably 25 percent,” he said.  
 The median price of a home in the U.S. was $173,100 in
April, down 25 percent from the July 2006 peak, according to the
National Association of Realtors.  
 Fannie and Freddie are deeply wired into the U.S. and
global financial systems. Figuring out how to stanch the losses
and turn them into sustainable businesses is the biggest piece
of unfinished business as Congress negotiates a Wall Street
overhaul that could reach President Barack Obama’s desk by July.  
 Neither political party wants to risk damaging the mortgage
market, said  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , a former director of the  Congressional Budget Office  and White House economic adviser
under President George W. Bush.  
 “Republicans and Democrats love putting Americans in
houses, and there’s no getting around that,” Holtz-Eakin said.  
 ‘Safest Place’  
 With no solution in sight, the companies may need billions
of dollars from the Treasury Department each quarter. The
alternative -- cutting the federal lifeline and letting the
companies default on their debts -- would produce global
economic tremors akin to the U.S. decision to go off the gold
standard in the 1930s, said Robert J. Shiller, a professor of
economics at  Yale University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , who
helped create the S&P/Case-Shiller indexes of property values.  
 “People all over the world think, ‘Where is the safest
place I could possibly put my money?’ and that’s the U.S.,”
Shiller said in an interview. “We can’t let Fannie and Freddie
go. We have to stand up for them.”  
 Congress created the  Federal National Mortgage Association ,
known as  Fannie Mae , in 1938 to expand home ownership by buying
mortgages from banks and other lenders and bundling them into
bonds for investors. It set up the  Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corp. , Freddie Mac, in 1970 to compete with Fannie.  
 Lower Standards  
 The companies’ liabilities stem in large part from loans
and mortgage-backed securities issued between 2005 and 2007.
Directed by Congress to encourage lending to minorities and low-
income borrowers at the same time private companies were gaining
market share by pushing into subprime loans, Fannie and Freddie
lowered their standards to take on high-risk mortgages.  
 Many of those went to borrowers with poor credit or little
equity in their homes, according to company  filings . By early
2008, more than $500 billion of loans guaranteed or held by
Fannie and Freddie, about 10 percent of the total, were in
subprime mortgages, according to Fed reports.  
 Fannie and Freddie also raised billions of dollars by
selling their own corporate debt to investors around the world.
The bonds are seen as safe because of an implicit government
guarantee against default. Foreign governments, including  China ’s and Japan’s, hold $908 billion of such bonds, according
to Fed  data .  
 ‘Debt Trap’  
 “Do we really want to go to the central bank of China and
say, ‘Tough luck, boys’? That’s part of the problem,” said
Karen Petrou, managing partner of Federal Financial Analytics
Inc., a Washington-based research firm.  
 The terms of the 2008 Treasury bailout create further
complications. Fannie and Freddie are required to pay a 10
percent annual dividend on the shares owned by taxpayers. So
far, they owe $14.5 billion, more than the companies reported in
income in their most profitable years.  
 “It’s like a debt trap,” said Qumber Hassan, a mortgage
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in  New York . “The more
they draw, the more they have to pay.”  
 Fannie and Freddie also benefited by selling $1.4 trillion
in mortgage-backed securities to the Fed and the Treasury since
September 2008, bonds that otherwise would have weighed on their
balance sheets. While the government bought only the lowest-risk
securities, it could incur additional losses.  
 ‘Hard to Judge’  
 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner has vowed to keep
Fannie and Freddie operating.  
 “It’s very hard to judge what the scale of losses is,”
Geithner told Congress in March.  
 One idea being weighed by the Obama administration involves
reconstituting Fannie and Freddie into a “good bank” with
performing loans and a “bad bank” to absorb the rest. That
could cost taxpayers as much as $290 billion because of all the
bad loans, according to a May estimate by Credit Suisse
analysts.  
 At the end of March, borrowers were late making payments on
$338.4 billion worth of Fannie and Freddie loans, up from $206.1
billion a year earlier, according to the companies’ first-
quarter filings at the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 The number of loans more than three months past due has
risen every quarter for more than a year, hitting 5.5 percent at
Fannie as of the end of March and 4.1 percent at Freddie,
according to the filings.  
 Surge in Delinquencies  
 The composition of the $5.5 trillion of loans guaranteed by
Fannie and Freddie suggests that the surge in delinquencies may
continue. About $1.98 trillion of the loans were made in states
with the nation’s highest foreclosure rates -- California,
Florida, Nevada and Arizona -- and $1.13 trillion were issued in
2006 and 2007, when real estate values peaked. Mortgages on
which borrowers owe more than 90 percent of a property’s value
total $402 billion.  
 Fannie and Freddie may suffer additional losses as a result
of the Treasury’s effort to prevent foreclosures. Under the
program, banks with mortgages owned or guaranteed by the
companies must rewrite loan terms to make them easier for
borrowers to pay.  
 The Treasury program is budgeted to cost Fannie and Freddie
$20 billion. The companies have already modified about 600,000
delinquent loans and refinanced almost 300,000 more, in some
cases for an amount greater than the houses are worth.  
 The government is using Fannie and Freddie “for a public-
policy purpose that may well increase the ultimate cost of the
taxpayer rescue,” said Petrou of Federal Financial Analytics.
“Treasury is rolling the dice.”  
 Republican Phase-Out  
 If the plan works and foreclosures fall, that could help
stabilize Fannie’s and Freddie’s balance sheets and ultimately
protect taxpayers.  
 “Avoiding foreclosures can be a route to reducing loss
severity,” said Sarah Rosen Wartell, executive vice president
of the Center for American Progress, a  Washington  research group
with ties to the Obama administration.  
 Loans issued since 2008, when the companies raised
standards for borrowers, should be profitable and help offset
prior losses, Wartell said.  
 Republicans attempted to include a phase-out of the
mortgage companies in the financial reform bill. Democratic
lawmakers and the Obama administration opted for further study,
and the Treasury began soliciting ideas in April.  
 Representative Scott Garrett, a New Jersey Republican and
co-sponsor of the phase-out amendment, said eliminating Fannie
and Freddie would force the government and the housing market to
confront the issue.  
 “It’s somewhat impossible to predict the magnitude of
their impact if they continue to be the primary source of
lending,” Garrett said in an interview.  
 Caught in ‘Quandary’  
 Democrats dismissed the phase-out idea as simplistic.  
 “We need to have a housing-financing system in place,”
Senate Banking Committee Chairman Christopher Dodd said last
month. “If you pull that rug out at this particular juncture, I
don’t know what the particular result would be. We’re caught in
this quandary.”  
 By delaying action, the Obama administration keeps losses
off the government’s books while building a floor under housing
prices during a congressional election year.  
 Keeping Fannie and Freddie functioning could also support
an overall economic recovery. Residential real estate -- the
money spent on rent, mortgage payments, construction,
remodeling, utilities and brokers’ fees -- accounted for about
17 percent of gross domestic product in 2009, according to the
National Association of Home Builders.  
 ‘Already Lost’  
 Allowing the companies to go under and hoping that private
financing will fill the gap isn’t realistic, analysts say. It
would require at least two years of rising property values for
private companies to return to the mortgage-securitization
market, said Robert Van Order, Freddie’s former chief
international economist and a professor of finance at George
Washington University in Washington.  
 The price tag of supporting Fannie and Freddie “needs to
be evaluated against the cost of not having a mortgage market,”
said  Phyllis Caldwell , chief of the Treasury’s Homeownership
Preservation Office.  
 Whatever the fix, the money spent will not be recovered,
said Alex Pollock, a former president of the Federal Home Loan
Bank of Chicago who is now a fellow at the Washington-based
American Enterprise Institute.  
 “It doesn’t matter what you do or don’t do, Fannie and
Freddie will cost a lot of money,” Pollock said. “The money is
already lost. There’s an attempt to try to avert your eyes.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;  John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Fannie Mae headquarters stands in Washington  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Fannie Mae headquarters stands in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Fannie Mae headquarters stands in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Anthony Sanders, a professor of finance at George Mason University, talks about the potential costs of fixing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac after the biggest bailout in American history.
     He speaks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "Inside Track." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
