-- Flemish Nationalists' `Earthquake' Victory May Reshape Splintered Belgium
-- John Martens
-- 2010-06-14T06:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/flemish-nationalists-earthquake-victory-may-reshape-splintered-belgium.html

          
          
             Flemish nationalists took the lead
in  Belgium ’s general elections, setting up coalition talks with
French-speaking Socialists who face demands from Dutch-speaking
voters to give more powers to the nation’s regions.  
 Bart De Wever ’s New-Flemish Alliance, or N-VA, won 27 of
the 150 parliamentary seats in yesterday’s elections, a
projection by the Interior Ministry showed.  Elio Di Rupo ’s
Socialist Party got 26 seats, advancing from 20 three years ago.
The Christian Democrats of outgoing Prime Minister  Yves Leterme 
face a loss of six seats to 17, coming in fourth after the
French-speaking Liberals, who are projected to drop to 18 seats
from 23.  
 “It’s truly an earthquake,”  Mark Eyskens , a Christian
Democrat who served in Belgian governments from 1976 to 1992 and
was prime minister in 1981-82, said on RTL-TVi television. “The
question is whether De Wever will be able to make a compromise
acceptable for the rest of his party.”  
 Pulling together a coalition may take months as the N-VA,
made up of conservatives who say Belgium will eventually
“evaporate,” seeks an accord to give more powers to the
regions and hold them fiscally accountable as part of a broader
coalition agreement. The country, bearing the third-highest debt
relative to gross domestic product in the euro region, needs to
cut spending or raise taxes by 8.7 billion euros ($10.5 billion)
in the next two years to lower its budget deficit to less than 3
percent of GDP.  
 Talk of Breakup  
 The national elections were held a year earlier than
scheduled after Leterme’s government collapsed in April because
of an impasse over a voting district encompassing Brussels, the
bilingual capital that’s home to the European Union’s main
institutions and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The
deadlock resulted from tensions between Dutch speakers in the
north and French speakers in the south that lead to occasional
talk of a breakup.  
 De Wever, 39, reached out to Di Rupo, 58, last night,
reiterating on RTL-TVi that he’s prepared to “sacrifice” the
post of prime minister to help advance an agreement that will
give Belgium’s regions the upper hand over the central
government.  
 “To achieve something in this country, we must talk” to
the Socialists, public broadcaster  RTBF  quoted De Wever as
saying. A Belgian breakup would be “incredibly stupid,”
because Flanders would “lose Brussels and become an
international pariah,” he said.  
 Federal State  
 A six-party coalition of N-VA, CD&V, sp.a and PS, cdH,
Ecolo, reflecting the ruling regional governments on both sides
of the linguistic divide, would have a two-third majority needed
to make changes to Belgium’s constitution, according to the
 projection  based on 97 percent of votes counted. Such an accord
would mark the sixth major overhaul of Belgium’s governing
structure since 1970. The nation has been a federal state since
1993.  
 Wallonia, where 3.46 million people live, receives 6.06
billion euros in transfers annually, with more than 96 percent
of those subsidies coming from Flanders, according to a  National
Bank study , based on 2005 figures. That has led to resentment
among the 6.16 million Flemish that their taxes are used to prop
up the south’s economy, where GDP per capita averages 71 percent
of economic output in Flanders, according to National Bank  data .  
 “Our responsibility will be equal to our election
result,” Di Rupo told his supporters in Brussels. “We have to
interpret the results in the north of the country as a strong
signal. To stabilize the country, this message should be
heard.”  
 Italian Immigrants’ Son  
 Should Di Rupo, a son of Italian immigrants, become the
next prime minister, he would be the first French speaker from
Wallonia in the job since Edmond Leburton in 1974.  
 After talks with party leaders,  King Albert II  will
appoint a special envoy known as an informateur to investigate
possible coalitions. The informateur will report back to the
monarch and he will then name a formateur, usually the
prospective prime minister, to form a government.  
 Leterme, 49, whose five-party coalition took a record nine
months to form and holds office in a caretaker role, may host
most of Belgium’s six-month EU presidency, taking over from
Spain on July 1.  
 Bank Bailouts  
 With public debt projected to surpass gross domestic
product in 2011 after spending more than 20 billion euros on
bank bailouts, Belgium risks becoming “Greece on the North
Sea,” Umicore SA Chairman  Thomas Leysen , head of the national
employers’ association, said in January.  
 The yield premium investors demand to hold Belgian 10-year
bonds rather than German debt of similar maturity rose to the
highest level since March 2009 last week, reaching 107.6 basis
points on June 8 before retreating to 79.4 on June 11.  
 Even as the Belgian treasury paid a premium of almost a
full percentage point to sell 10-year debt on June 7, the 3.52
percent yield on the securities was the  lowest  in more than 4
1/2 years for a 10-year Belgian bond issue.  
 Belgian bonds returned  4.3 percent  so far this year, less
than a 7 percent return on German debt and a 5.7 percent gain
for French government bonds, according to Bloomberg/EFFAS data.
Greek sovereign debt has lost 11 percent since the start of the
year.  
 The budget deficit will narrow to 4.8 percent of GDP this
year from 5.9 percent in 2009, the Leterme-led government
forecast. Balancing the budget will require 22 billion euros of
spending cuts or tax increases in the five years through 2015,
according to May 19 projections from the  Federal Planning
Bureau .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Martens  in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Leader of New Flemish Aliance Bart De Wever  
                       
                         
                           Georges Gobet/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Leader of New Flemish Aliance Bart De Wever gestures in victory makes a speech in a palace in Brussels on June 13, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Leader of New Flemish Aliance Bart De Wever gestures in victory makes a speech in a palace in Brussels on June 13, 2010. Photographer: Georges Gobet/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
