-- Flemish Nationalists' `Earthquake' Victory May Reshape Splintered Belgium
-- John Martens
-- 2010-06-13T21:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/flemish-nationalists-walloon-socialists-lead-in-belgium-exit-polls-show.html

          
          
             Flemish nationalists took the lead
in  Belgium ’s general elections, setting up coalition talks with
French-speaking Socialists who face strong demands from Dutch-
speaking voters to give more powers to the nation’s regions.  
 Bart De Wever ’s New-Flemish Alliance, or N-VA, may win 28
of the 150 legislative seats in today’s elections, according to
a projection by the Interior Ministry.  Elio Di Rupo ’s Socialist
Party may get 26 seats, advancing from 20 three years ago. The
Christian Democrats of outgoing Prime Minister  Yves Leterme  face
a loss of six seats to 17, coming in fourth after the French-
speaking Liberals, who are projected to drop to 18 from 23.  
 “It’s truly an earthquake,”  Mark Eyskens , a Christian
Democrat who served in Belgian governments from 1976 to 1992 and
was prime minister in 1981-82, said on RTL-TVi television. “The
question is whether De Wever will be able to make a compromise
acceptable for the rest of his party.”  
 Pulling together a coalition may take months as the N-VA,
made up of conservatives who say Belgium will eventually
“evaporate,” seeks an accord to give more powers to the
regions and hold them fiscally accountable as part of a broader
coalition agreement. The country, bearing the third-highest debt
relative to gross domestic product in the euro region, needs to
cut spending or raise taxes by 8.7 billion euros ($10.5 billion)
in the next two years to lower its budget deficit to less than 3
percent of GDP.  
 Talk of Breakup  
 The national elections were held a year earlier than
scheduled after Leterme’s government collapsed in April because
of an impasse over a voting district encompassing Brussels, the
bilingual capital that’s home to the European Union’s main
institutions and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. It
resulted from tensions between Dutch speakers in the north and
French speakers in the south that lead to occasional talk of a
breakup.  
 De Wever, 39, reached out to Di Rupo, 58, tonight,
reiterating on RTL-TVi that he’s prepared to “sacrifice” the
post of prime minister to help advance an agreement that will
give Belgium’s regions the upper hand over the central
government.  
 A six-party coalition reflecting the ruling regional
governments on both sides of the linguistic divide, would have a
two-third majority needed to make changes to Belgium’s
constitution, according to the  projection  based on almost 89
percent of votes counted. Such an accord would mark the sixth
major overhaul of Belgium’s governing structure since 1970. The
nation has been a federal state since 1993.  
 Money Transfers  
 Wallonia, where 3.46 million people live, receives 6.06
billion euros in transfers annually, with more than 96 percent
of those subsidies coming from Flanders, according to a  National
Bank study , based on 2005 figures. That has led to resentment
among the 6.16 million Flemish that their taxes are used to prop
up the south’s economy, where economic output per capita
averages 71 percent of output in Flanders, according to National
Bank  data .  
 “Our responsibility will be equal to our election
result,” Di Rupo told his supporters in Brussels. “We have to
interpret the results in the north of the country as a strong
signal. To stabilize the country, this message should be
heard.”  
 Should Di Rupo, a son of Italian immigrants, become the
next prime minister, he would be the first French speaker from
Wallonia in the job since Edmond Leburton in 1974.  
 EU Presidency  
 Leterme, 49, whose five-party coalition took a record nine
months to form and holds office in a caretaker role, may host
most of Belgium’s six-month EU presidency, taking over from
Spain on July 1.  
 With public debt projected to surpass gross domestic
product in 2011 after spending more than 20 billion euros on
bank bailouts, Belgium risks becoming “Greece on the North
Sea,” Umicore SA Chairman  Thomas Leysen , head of the national
employers’ association, said in January.  
 The yield premium investors demand to hold Belgian 10-year
bonds rather than German debt of similar maturity rose to the
highest level since March 2009 last week, reaching 107.6 basis
points on June 8 before retreating to 79.4 on June 11.  
 Even as the Belgian treasury paid a premium of almost a
full percentage point to sell 10-year debt on June 7, the 3.52
percent yield on the securities was the  lowest  in more than 4
1/2 years for a 10-year Belgian bond issue.  
 Bond Returns  
 Belgian bonds returned  4.3 percent  so far this year, less
than a 7 percent return on German debt and a 5.7 percent gain
for French government bonds, according to Bloomberg/EFFAS data.
Greek sovereign debt has lost 11 percent since the start of the
year.  
 The budget deficit will narrow to 4.8 percent of GDP this
year from 5.9 percent in 2009, the Leterme-led government
forecast. Balancing the budget will require 22 billion euros of
spending cuts or tax increases in the five years through 2015,
according to May 19 projections from the  Federal Planning
Bureau .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Martens  in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        