-- Fox, Clarke, Hague Consider U.K. Spending Cuts as Osborne's Budget Looms
-- Craig Stirling
-- 2010-06-13T13:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/fox-clarke-hague-consider-u-k-spending-cuts-as-osborne-s-budget-looms.html

          
          
             U.K. Defense Secretary  Liam Fox 
refused to rule out cuts in military personnel and two other
government ministers pledged to trim spending to help Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  curb the record  budget deficit .  
 “The scale of the reductions in the borrowing and the debt
that we have to achieve far exceed anything that’s been
attempted by any government in my lifetime,” Justice Secretary
 Kenneth Clarke , a former finance minister, told Sky News today.
“I hope George is going to take a courageous, very firm and
long-termed, medium-termed view of how to tackle the debt and
get it under control.”  
 With the Office for Budget Responsibility due tomorrow to
release the economic forecasts underpinning Osborne’s emergency
budget on June 22, debate is intensifying on where to prioritize
spending cuts and tax increases.  Britain’s deficit  swelled to a
post-war record 11.1 percent of  gross domestic product  in the
year through March.  
 “We’ve got to have a proper review,” Fox told the BBC’s
Politics Show today. Some parts of the armed forces may need
additional personnel, while others may be able to sustain cuts,
he said. “We can’t be surely saying that we keep the shape and
size of our armed forces exactly the same forever.”  
 Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told the BBC’s Sunday AM
show that his department will seek ways to do “more for less.”
He said the Foreign and Commonwealth Office will focus on
pooling resources in overseas representations in cities where
other organizations such as the Department for International
Development have set up separate offices.  
 Embassy Squeeze  
 “We’re looking at what we can do,” Hague said. “There
will undoubtedly be things that we can do more efficiently in
the Foreign Office and in the whole overseas representation of
the British government just like there will be things in all the
domestic departments as well.”  
 Osborne has already announced more than 6 billion pounds
($8.7 billion) in spending savings and is looking for further
reductions to curb the budget shortfall.  
 Clarke, whose department found 325 million pounds of
Osborne’s initial savings, said budget cuts at the Ministry of
Justice will focus on the funding for legal representation of
defendants in court, known as Legal Aid.  
 “I do have big, lumpy things like legal aid,” he said.
“We do have one of the most generous legal aid systems in the
world and actually I’m rather proud of that, but we cannot
afford it as it is now, there are going to have to be some
difficult decisions.”  
 Former finance minister  Norman Lamont  suggested in a Sky
News interview that the sovereign debt crisis in the euro region
provided a warning to the U.K. of the perils of failing to keep
borrowings under control.  
 “Our level of borrowing proportionately is not that
dissimilar to Greece,” Lamont said. “Unless we get our
borrowing under control, interest rates will probably move
higher.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Stirling  in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        