-- Germany Beats Australia 4-0 in World Cup; Ghana, Slovenia Each Win 1-0
-- James Cone
-- 2010-06-13T22:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/germany-beats-australia-4-0-in-world-cup-ghana-slovenia-each-win-1-0.html

          
          
             Three-time champion Germany beat
Australia 4-0 last night to top Group D at soccer’s World Cup
after a day when all three losing teams finished with 10 men.
Ghana beat Serbia 1-0 and Slovenia defeated Algeria 1-0.  
 Lukas Podolski ,  Miroslav Klose , Thomas Mueller and Cacau
scored in Durban, South Africa, in Germany’s first match of this
year’s championship. Australia’s  Tim Cahill  received a straight
red card after 56 minutes for a foul on  Bastian Schweinsteiger .  
 Germany, which last won the tournament in 1990, tops the
group because of a superior goal difference to Ghana. Slovenia
sits above England and the U.S. in Group C following its victory
against Algeria.  
 “We made silly mistakes, and at this level you get
punished,” Australia captain  Lucas Neill  said in a televised
interview.  
 Australia, playing at its third World Cup, had the first
clear chance before Germany took control. Cahill had an effort
stopped in front of goal by  Philipp Lahm , with goalkeeper Manuel
Neuer blocking a follow-up effort by Richard Garcia.  
 Klose blasted straight at Australia goalkeeper  Mark Schwarzer  after seven minutes, but only a minute later Germany
was ahead as Podolski netted a 39th goal in 74 internationals.
His left-foot shot was too powerful for Schwarzer.  
 Klose wasted another opportunity, blasting wide after 24
minutes, before atoning two minutes later. The Polish-born
striker beat Schwarzer to a Lahm cross to score an 11th World
Cup goal. Only four players have registered more goals in
tournament history.  
 Australia exerted pressure early in the second half before
Cahill’s red card effectively ended their hopes.  
 More Misery  
 Mueller’s first international goal and a close-range strike
by substitute Cacau heaped further misery on the Socceroos, who
reached the second round four years ago.  
 Today, the Netherlands face Denmark, and Japan plays
Cameroon in Group E. Italy meets Paraguay in Group F.  
 In Pretoria yesterday, Ghana’s Asamoah Gyan scored from the
penalty spot in the 84th minute to give the Black Stars a win.  
 Ghana, making its second straight appearance at the finals
after first qualifying in 2006, had a one-man advantage from the
74th minute when Aleksandar Lukovic received a second yellow
card.  
 Gyan got the only goal after Zdravko Kuzmanovic handled the
ball as he stretched to cut out a cross in the penalty area. He
almost added a second goal in injury time on a breakaway, but
the ball hit the post before rebounding to safety. Gyan also
headed against the outside of a post earlier in the half.  
 Ghana goalkeeper Richard Kingson palmed away Serbia’s best
opportunity by  Milos Krasic  after 79 minutes.  
 Koren’s Strike  
 Slovenia got its first World Cup win on a Robert Koren goal
in the 79th minute, as goalkeeper Faouzi Chaouchi allowed a shot
to squirm past his left hand. Seven minutes earlier, Algeria’s
Abdelkader Ghezzal was dismissed for a second yellow card, for
handball.  
 The win leaves Slovenia on three points. England and the
U.S. have one each after their 1-1 draw yesterday, while Algeria
has no points.  
 “It’s a very big thing for such a small country to even go
to the World Cup, much less to win our first three points,”
Koren told reporters. “But we know we have two games left to go
and hopefully we’ll get the right results we need to go through
from the group.”  
 Algeria, which qualified after a playoff with Egypt, went
close after 35 minutes when Slovenia failed to deal with a
corner and Rafik Halliche headed just wide. Karim Matmour then
shot over as Algeria increased the pace.  
 Slovenia hit back and Valter Birsa’s shot was tipped over
by Chaouchi just before halftime.  
 In the 70th minute Ghezzal headed over for Algeria. He was
dismissed soon after.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Germany's players celebrate after beating Australia in their Group D first round 2010 World Cup football match. Photographer: Lui Jin/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
