-- Ghana Defeats 10-Man Serbia 1-0 With 84th Minute Penalty; Slovenia Wins
-- James Cone
-- 2010-06-13T17:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/ghana-defeats-10-man-serbia-1-0-at-world-cup-slovenia-beats-algeria-1-0.html

          
          
             Ghana beat Serbia 1-0 and Slovenia
defeated Algeria 1-0 in soccer’s World Cup today, with both
teams scoring after their opponent was reduced to 10 men.  
 Ghana’s Asamoah Gyan scored from the penalty spot in the
84th minute to put the Black Stars atop Group D ahead of three-
time champion Germany’s opening game against Australia. Slovenia
leads Group C after Robert Koren’s strike against Algeria.  
 Ghana, making its second straight appearance at the finals
after first qualifying in 2006, had a one-man advantage from the
74th minute when Aleksandar Lukovic received a second yellow
card in Pretoria, South Africa.  
 Gyan got the only goal 10 minutes later after Zdravko
Kuzmanovic handled the ball as he stretched to cut out a cross
in the penalty area.  
 Gyan almost added a second goal in injury time on a
breakaway, but his shot hit the post before rebounding to
safety. He had also headed against the outside of a post earlier
in the half.  
 Ghana goalkeeper Richard Kingson, 32 today, palmed away
Serbia’s best opportunity by  Milos Krasic  after 79 minutes.  
 In Polokwane, Slovenia got its first World Cup win on
Koren’s goal. He scored in the 79th minute when goalkeeper Fawzi
Chaouchi allowed his shot to squirm past his left hand. Seven
minutes earlier, Abdelkader Ghezzal of Algeria was dismissed for
a second yellow card, for handball.  
 The win leaves Slovenia on three points. England and the
U.S. have one each after their 1-1 draw yesterday, while Algeria
has no points.  
 Scoring chances were limited in the Algeria-Slovenia game,
which provided little fluent soccer.  
 Algeria, which reached the World Cup after a playoff with
Egypt, went close after 35 minutes when Slovenia failed to deal
with a corner and Rafik Halliche headed just wide.  
 Just before halftime Karim Matmour shot over after being
set up by  Nadir Belhadj  as Algeria increased the pace. Then
Slovenia hit back and Valter Birsa’s shot was tipped over by
Chaouchi just before halftime.  
 In the 70th minute Ghezzal headed over for Algeria. He was
dismissed soon after.  
 Yesterday,  Steven Gerrard  gave England an early lead,
before the U.S. hit back before halftime when a mistake by
goalkeeper  Robert Green  allowed a shot by  Clint Dempsey  to
bobble into the net.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        