-- Goldman Sachs Envy Drove Big Boys to Blow Up Money Grid: Books
-- James Pressley
-- 2010-06-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/goldman-sachs-envy-drove-big-boys-to-blow-up-money-grid-books.html

          
          
             Note to  Lloyd Blankfein : Imagine,
for a moment, what would happen if a cardiac surgeon were paid
like a  Wall Street  banker in 2006.  
 For each operation, the doctor would earn more, regardless
of the risk to the patient, writes  Suzanne McGee  in “Chasing
Goldman Sachs.” The greater the risk, in fact, the higher the
fee. Should half his patients die the next year, the hospital
might dismiss the surgeon -- with a golden handshake. He could
then take up a post elsewhere or set up his own practice.  
 “Wall Street doesn’t have to purchase malpractice
insurance,” says McGee in this disturbing account of how the
big boys ran amok and began blowing up the money grid. “There
isn’t even a sense that there is a duty of care to the ‘patient’
-- whether that patient is the client or the financial system.”  
 McGee, a contributing editor at Barron’s, isn’t out to bury  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . or Blankfein, its chief executive
officer. Her goal is, rather, to show how Wall Street bankers
became preoccupied with their own short-term interests and
drifted away from their raison d’etre -- to funnel capital from
investors to companies that need it.  
 They were, by this account, almost predestined to do so
from the moment the Securities and Exchange Commission banned
fixed trading commissions in the stock market on May 1, 1975.
The prohibition turned their comfy business model upside-down:
“Mayday,” they called it, hinting at their distress level.  
 In the decades that followed, Wall Street morphed from an
intermediary into “a self-serving, risk-taking machine for
generating profits,” says McGee. No player was better at the
game than Goldman, the most profitable securities firm in Street
history.  
   Pied Piper   
 The peril wasn’t that Goldman became “ a great vampire
squid ,” as a Rolling Stone writer so delicately phrased it. The
firm actually became something much more dangerous: a
seductively successful Pied Piper, luring other banks down a
path that led to destruction.  
 Its profitability was the envy of its peers, McGee writes:
Trying to match Goldman’s return on equity was the only way for
rivals to pacify their restive shareholders and increase their
personal wealth.  
 This isn’t what Wall Street was built for, she reminds us.
The financial system is a public utility, akin to a power
company or the water system, no matter how much the comparison
makes bankers bristle, she says. Turn the tap, you expect water.
Flip a switch, you get light. The money grid works the same way:
It connects buyers to sellers and lenders to borrowers, making
it possible to raise capital to repair roads and finance
companies.  
 Purcell Lesson  
 McGee walks us through the trends that led us to this day,
notably the shift away from private partnerships, which limited
risk. Going public allowed executives to place big bets with
other people’s money; it also exposed them to shareholders
anxious to match Goldman’s ROE, as the admittedly unpopular
Philip Purcell discovered at  Morgan Stanley . His ouster as CEO
in 2005 reflected his aversion to taking big balance-sheet
risks, McGee writes.  
 “We watched, we listened, and we all learned from that,”
McGee quotes one banker as saying.  
 Year after year, the focus shifted from providing services
to selling products: “Wall Street is really the breakfast
cereal business,” Marty Fridson, the junk-bond specialist,
tells McGee.  
 This is an exhaustive piece of reporting that draws on
interviews with some 200 people whose lives are tied to the
Street, from hedge-fund managers and venture capitalists to
private-equity dealmakers and corporate executives. Billionaire
Wilbur Ross makes an appearance, as does John Costas, the former
head of  investment banking  at  UBS AG .  
 Target Audience?  
 McGee’s target audience isn’t entirely clear. Joe Public is
unlikely to lug this 398-pager to the beach, while old hands on
Wall Street are already aware of what happened. Still, memories
on trading floors are short, and bankers under 35 could absorb
important lessons from these chapters.  
 The book does offer some reasons to believe Wall Street can
change. McGee notes, for example, the emergence of boutique
advisers dedicated to serving corporate clients. And don’t
forget the elephant out in  Chicago , Citadel Investment Group
LLC. Founder  Ken Griffin  has vowed to press ahead with plans to
bolt an investment bank onto his $12 billion hedge fund.  
 “Griffin sees himself not as chasing Goldman Sachs but
rather as becoming Goldman Sachs,” writes McGee.  
 By serendipity, the author delivered the final page proofs
of this book to her editor on the morning the SEC sued Goldman
for fraud tied to collateralized debt obligations. By then, one
thing was abundantly clear, she says in a foreword:  
 “Wall Street is no longer run in the interests of its
clients, but in the interests of Wall Street entities
themselves.”  
 “Chasing Goldman Sachs: How the Masters of the Universe
Melted Wall Street Down . . . . And Why They’ll Take Us to the
Brink Again” is from  Crown Business  (398 pages, $27). To buy
this book in  North America , click  here .  
 (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Chasing Goldman Sachs"  
                       
                         
                           Random House via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The cover jacket of the book "Chasing Goldman Sachs: How the Masters of the Universe Melted Wall Street Down and Why They'll Take us to the Brink Again." The book is the latest by Suzanne McGee. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The cover jacket of the book "Chasing Goldman Sachs: How the Masters of the Universe Melted Wall Street Down and Why They'll Take us to the Brink Again." The book is the latest by Suzanne McGee. Source: Random House via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Author Suzanne McGee. "Chasing Goldman Sachs: How the Masters of the Universe Melted Wall Street Down and Why They'll Take us to the Brink Again" is the latest book by McGee. Photographer: Earnest Green/Random House via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
