-- Gold's 30% Surge Puzzles Bernanke: William Pesek
-- William Pesek
-- 2010-06-13T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/gold-s-30-surge-puzzles-bernanke-not-this-guy-william-pesek.html

          
          
             Alan Greenspan  had his conundrum.
Now,  Ben Bernanke  has his enigma.  
 The behavior of long-term interest rates had the former
Federal Reserve chairman scratching his head. It’s gold that
puzzles the current Fed chief. Damned if Bernanke and his fellow
central bankers can explain the surge by a metal  John Maynard Keynes  once dismissed as a “barbaric relic.”  
 “I don’t fully understand movements in the gold price,”
Bernanke said on Capitol Hill last week.  
 That shocks gold bulls like  Johann Santer , managing
director at  Superfund Financial  in Tokyo. And it may be awful
news for the global economy that some investors are surer than
ever that the gold rally is just getting started.  
 It’s hard to decide what’s more frightening: that investors
are losing confidence in paper money or that the shepherds of
the world’s major currencies don’t get what’s going on. Gold’s
climb of almost 30 percent in a year reflects fear, not just
market concern over inflation or deflation risks. People have
lost trust in the global financial system.  
 As Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. was crashing in September
2008,  Superfund  was loading up on gold. At the time, Santer got
his share of giggles and rolled eyeballs for predicting gold
would rise to $1,500 an ounce over the next two or three years.
With gold around $1,230 an ounce, no one’s laughing anymore.  
 ‘Black Swans’  
 There are many reasons why gold is back in vogue, yet two
in particular are worth considering. One is fear about “black
swans,” unexpected events that have great impact. The second
reflects how little gold many central banks in Asia and
elsewhere hold on their balance sheets.  
 A year ago, the idea of gold hoarding struck me as odd. It
was hard not to view fans of the precious metal as akin to
people standing on street corners with megaphones predicting
apocalypse. The world economy seemed to be on the mend, a sense
of order was returning to markets and doomsayers like  Nouriel Roubini  were getting fewer headlines.  
 Greece’s unraveling was a sobering reality check. It wasn’t
that a fiscally irresponsible economy smaller than Iran’s was
stumbling. It was how, as in the case of Iceland before it,
Greece was cast in the role of canary in the financial coalmine.
European banking shares suggest a Greek debt default may be just
a matter of time.  
 Contagion’s Return  
 It was suddenly clear that the contagion that emanated from
the U.S. in 2008 had never really gone away. Greece’s troubles
cast a huge shadow over far more important economies, like
Spain’s. The idea that the 10th biggest economy, one bigger than
Canada’s, might someday renege on debt put an end to hopes for a
smooth 2010.  
 Perhaps the best explanation of these all-too-tangible
risks comes from  Anthony Crescenzi , a strategist at Pacific
Investment Management Co., the world’s largest bond-fund
manager. The question is this: As the U.S. is aggressively
backing its financial system, who is backing the U.S.?  
 Thinking back to the darkest days of 2008, few will quibble
with government efforts to stave off Armageddon. The promise was
that if investors tolerated a surge in debt issuance, capitalism
and prosperity would be saved. As fear is returning to the
global economy, the worry is that industrialized nations are out
of ammunition.  
 ‘Keynesian Endpoint’  
 Have nations reached a “Keynesian endpoint” as exhausted
balance sheets leave policy makers with few options to bolster
growth? We’ve known for years that the Group of Seven nations
were losing their ability to guide markets. Now, they’re losing
hope of shielding economies from them.  
 As all hell threatens to break lose anew, are you going to
buy stocks? Probably not. Bonds at a time when no one trusts
credit ratings? Doubtful. Euro? Nope. Yen? Risky. Dollar? For
many, the U.S. currency is the least ugly contestant in this
financial beauty contest.  
 A question here is what central banks do. Many are sitting
on too many dollars for comfort and upping gold reserves may be
the diversification move of choice.  
 “I believe the biggest customer base will be Asia,” says
Santer. “And if Ben Bernanke doesn’t see why then we have even
more reason to worry about the global economy.”  
 Gold Grab  
 South Korea, for example, is the 15th biggest economy and
gold accounts for just 0.2 percent of its total reserves. If
markets remain volatile and the dollar gyrates, it may be among
the Asian nations that move to buy more of the metal.  
 In November, India surprised markets with a $6.7 billion
purchase from the  International Monetary Fund ’s bullion stash.
India’s gold grab was the vanguard of central banks more
aggressively diversifying reserves away from U.S. assets.  
 It’s not what the Greenspans of the world envisioned 15
years ago. Back then, warehousing gold bars seemed a bit
retrograde. Central banks had gotten so good at whipping
inflation that paper money was just fine. Fort Knox was no
longer needed.  
 The post-Lehman world is dispelling such notions and we may
be on the cusp of history’s greatest gold rush. Bernanke and his
peers would be wise to contemplate why.  
 ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke speaks during a House Budget Committee hearing on the state of the economy in Washington, on June 9, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
