-- Interpol to Help Sudan Catch U.S. Worker's Killers Following Their Escape
-- Maram Mazen
-- 2010-06-13T12:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/interpol-to-help-sudan-catch-u-s-worker-s-killers-following-their-escape.html

          
          
             Interpol raised an international
security alert for four men convicted of killing a U.S. aid
worker and his Sudanese driver after they escaped from prison in
Sudan, the international body said on its website.  
 The four men fled on June 10 through a drainage pipeline
from their cell to a main street in Khartoum North, Sudan’s
police said in a statement the next day.  
 Interpol said it will “circulate the alert to all relevant
national and immigration authorities to assist in the location
and identification of the convicted murderers.”  
 A Sudanese court upheld death sentences on Oct. 12 against
the four Islamists convicted of killing U.S. citizen John
Granville, who worked at the U.S. Agency for International
Development, and his Sudanese driver Abdel-Rahman Abbas in
January 2008. The court’s decision came after Granville’s mother
refused to grant amnesty to the men, a process required by
Sudanese law.  
 The fugitives exchanged fire with the police at about 2:30
a.m. June 11 after they refused to stop at a checkpoint in
Omdurman, across the White Nile west of Khartoum, killing one
policeman, the police said in the statement. The police captured
the driver of their vehicle, the statement said.  
 “The United States Government expects that Sudanese
authorities will apprehend these convicted murderers and ensure
that justice is served for the men killed and their families,”
 Philip Crowley , U.S. State Department spokesman, said on June
11, according to a transcript on the State Department’s website.  
 The U.S. imposed economic sanctions against Sudan in 1997,
alleging that it supported terrorism. The government of the
largest African country has repeatedly called for sanctions to
be lifted.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        