-- Iran Detains 91 People on Election Anniversary as Mass Protests Scrapped
-- Ladane Nasseri
-- 2010-06-13T15:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/iran-detains-91-people-on-election-anniversary-as-mass-protests-scrapped.html

          
          
             Iranian authorities detained 91
people yesterday as the nation marked the first anniversary of
the re-election of President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .  
 “Ninety-one individuals were arrested for being suspects
and their cases have been forwarded to the judiciary,” Tehran’s
police chief Hossein Sadjadinia was quoted as saying by the
state-run  Iranian Students News Agency .  
 Opposition leaders  Mir Hossein Mousavi  and  Mehdi Karrubi ,
who both ran against Ahmadinejad in the June 12 vote, scrapped
plans to hold mass anniversary protests “to protect the lives
and property of people,” according to a joint statement on
their websites. Videos posted on the opposition website  Iran-
Free.org  showed security forces in downtown Tehran, the capital.
The authorities also sent threatening text messages to people,
opposition website Rahesabz reported June 11.  
 Mass demonstrations sparked last year by the announced
victory of Ahmadinejad, which the opposition says was
fraudulent, posed the biggest challenge to the Islamic
establishment since the country’s 1979 revolution. The
government says 44 people died in the unrest, while  Amnesty
International  says the number is at least double that figure.  
 CNN reported some minor clashes yesterday in Tehran on its
website. The disturbances started at about 6 p.m. local time
near the Vali-Asr Square, CNN said, citing witnesses. Clashes
took place at Tehran’s Azadi Square between a few dozen
protesters and anti-riot police swinging batons, Associated
Press reported citing witnesses.  
 Intimidation  
 The Intelligence Ministry sent random text-messages to
intimidate people, Rahesabz reported. “Dear citizen, you have
been deceived by the foreign media and are cooperating with
them. If repeated, you will be dealt with according to the
Islamic punishment law,” the messages read, according to the
website.  
 Known as the Green Movement, the opposition group born out
of last year’s protests initially requested a recount of votes
and has since gone on to criticize the government’s crackdown
and call for changes to aspects of Iran’s religion-based
political system.  
 “We may back down in one area but we will continue our
presence in another,” Mousavi, a former prime minister, said
last week in comments published June 11 on his  website .  
 Opposition supporters are “each members of social networks
and will keep the green idea alive,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        