-- Iranian Lawmakers Debate Reducing Cooperation With UN's Nuclear Agency
-- Ladane Nasseri
-- 2010-06-13T09:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/iranian-lawmakers-debate-reducing-cooperation-with-un-s-nuclear-agency.html

          
          
             Iranian lawmakers are drafting a
bill to reduce cooperation with the United Nations nuclear
watchdog after the UN Security Council imposed a fourth set of
sanctions on the country, a senior member of parliament said.  
 “The bill to revise Iran’s relations with the
International Atomic Energy Agency is being prepared,” Alaeddin
Boroujerdi, head of the Majlis National Security and Foreign
Policy Commission was quoted as saying today by the  Islamic
Republic News Agency . The plan won’t be discussed in the
parliament today, he said.  
 The government said it is reconsidering ties with the IAEA
because the UN watchdog didn’t defend Iran from punitive
measures even though it had confirmed the peaceful nature of
Iranian nuclear activities in more than 20 reports, state-run
 Al-Alam  television reported earlier. The  Security Council , with
backing from Russia and China, on June 9 approved sanctions
including restrictions on financial transactions, a tighter arms
embargo and authority to seize cargo suspected of being used for
Iranian nuclear or missile programs. Iran won’t seek to revise
ties to Russia and China after their vote for harsher sanctions,
Boroujerdi said.  
 “The relations of Iran with those two countries is good,”
Boroujerdi said according to IRNA. Russia is building Iran a
1,000 megawatt nuclear reactor in the port city of Bushehr,
while China is a major trade partner for the Persian Gulf
country.  
 ‘Used Tissue’  
 The IAEA’s Director General  Yukiya Amano  said June 7 that
Iran had not provided enough information to the agency to allow
it to confirm that the Iranian nuclear program is peaceful.
In February, the IAEA reported that Iran may be designing an
atomic-tipped missile. Iran complains that it can’t refute some
allegations because it doesn’t have access to U.S. intelligence
files shared with UN nuclear inspectors.  
 Iran has already denounced the Security Council measures,
which aim to pressure it to halt uranium enrichment, with
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  saying they should be “thrown
into the trash bin like a used tissue.”  
 On June 10, Iran’s representative at the IAEA downplayed
the possibility his country would end all its cooperation with
the agency, which monitors compliance with the international
treaty on nuclear weapons.  
 ‘Very Upset’  
 “The parliamentarians are very upset,” Ambassador
Aliasghar Soltanieh told reporters at the IAEA’s offices in
Vienna. “As of now, there is no intention to withdraw from the
nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty or to stop our cooperation in
accordance with IAEA safeguards.”  
 The U.S. and its allies say Iran has rebuffed diplomacy by
refusing repeated Security Council demands to suspend the
production of enriched uranium, which can fuel a reactor or form
the core of a bomb. The IAEA has criticized Iran for failing to
cooperate with its inspectors.  
 Cutting IAEA access to sites in Iran would be a blow to
inspectors, who last month negotiated enhanced supervision of a
uranium enrichment site in Natanz. The agency said May 31 that
it won the right to add more cameras, increase atomic-material
accounting and conduct surprise inspections at the site, where
Iran has produced 5.7 kilograms (12.6 pounds) of 20 percent
enriched uranium.  
 While most nuclear weapons contain 90 percent enriched
uranium, concentrations as low as 20 percent can start the
atomic fission seen in nuclear weapons.  
 Iran, the world’s fourth-largest oil producer, says its
nuclear program is intended to generate electricity for a
growing population.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Dubai at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        