-- Iran Demands Russia Honor S-300 Contract to Make it `Invincible' to Israel
-- Henry Meyer
-- 2010-06-13T10:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/iran-demands-russia-honor-s-300-contract-to-make-it-invincible-to-israel.html

          
          
             Russia must honor a contract to
supply S-300 air-defense systems, an Iranian lawmaker said.  
 “Russia should abide by agreements made between the two
countries and deliver the system to Iran,” said Esmail Kowsari,
deputy head of the parliament’s security and foreign policy
committee, state broadcaster  Press TV  reported on its website
today. The air-defense systems would make Iran “ invincible ” to
any attack by Israel, Press TV said.  
 A Kremlin official said June 11 that lawyers had concluded
the S-300 deal likely came under new United Nations sanctions,
which banned sales to Iran of weaponry including fighter jets,
attack helicopters, warships or missiles. Russia will implement
the restrictions “within days,” the official said, speaking on
condition of anonymity. Israel has declined to rule out a
military strike against Iranian nuclear facilities, which the
U.S. and its allies suspect are meant to produce a bomb.  
 “The S-300 is absolutely necessary for Iran,”  Mustafa Alani , a regional security expert from the Dubai-based Gulf
Research Center, said in a telephone interview today. “They are
very disappointed as they have a huge gap in their air defense
and this would solve a big part of it.”  
 Russia signed a contract to sell at least five S-300
mobile, land-based air-defense systems to Iran in 2005 and never
fulfilled the deal because of U.S. pressure, according to Press
TV, Iran’s English-language satellite news channel.  
 Target Range  
 The S-300’s latest model is able to hit targets from a
range of 3 kilometers (1.9 miles) to 200 kilometers and at a
height of 100 meters to 27 kilometers, according to its
manufacturer,  OAO Air Defense Concern Almaz-Antei .  
 The U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency in 2008 said the high-
performance SA-20 missile system, the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization designation for an upgraded version of the S-300,
would dramatically enhance Iran’s aging air-defense
capabilities. The SA-20 would provide Iran with a modern long-
range surface-to-air missile system that is capable of defending
against a variety of threats including ballistic missiles,
cruise missiles and modern aircraft, it said.  
 “If delivered, military experts believe the SA-20 would
make Iranian nuclear sites ‘invincible’ in the face of any
attack, notably aerial saturation bombings that could be carried
out by Israel,” said Press TV.  
 Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter and a U.S.
ally, denied reports yesterday that it had agreed to allow
Israel to use its airspace to raid Iran’s nuclear facilities.  
 U.K. newspaper  The Times  reported that Saudi Arabia agreed
to allow Israel to use its airspace to make bombing raids on
Iran’s nuclear facilities. The newspaper cited unidentified
people. Saudi Arabia would ensure that the bombers pass through
an area in the north of the country without its missile defense
systems being activated, the daily said.  
 Iran, which has the world’s second-largest oil and gas
reserves, says its nuclear program is peaceful and aimed at
generating electricity for a growing population.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Dubai at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        