-- Israel Eases Import Restrictions on Gaza to Allow More Food, Ayalon Says
-- Jonathan Ferziger
-- 2010-06-13T18:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/israel-eases-import-restrictions-on-gaza-to-allow-more-food-ayalon-says.html

          
          
             Israel’s deputy foreign minister,
 Daniel Ayalon , said the government is easing its import
restrictions on the Gaza Strip to allow in more types of food.  
 “We are correcting it,” Ayalon said in an interview aired
today on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” program. “There is no
reason not to have a full array of food to the Gazans and we are
making sure this will be the case,” Ayalon said according to a
transcript.  
 Israel’s sea and ground blockade of Gaza has drawn
international criticism since the Israeli military staged a
commando raid May 31 on a flotilla of ships bringing
humanitarian aid supplies to the Hamas-ruled territory, in which
nine Turkish activists were killed. Palestinians say Israel’s
restrictions on imports have created a humanitarian crisis,
while Israel says that imports like construction materials can
be used to build rockets, bunkers or bombs.  
 Former British Prime Minister  Tony Blair  said in an
interview today that a partial lifting of the blockade might be
imminent.  
 The current situation in Gaza is “untenable” and the
solution is to “keep arms out and let the rest” in terms of
humanitarian aid get through, Blair, now a United Nations envoy
for the Middle East, told the British Broadcasting Corp.  
 Quantity, Diversity  
 Israel in recent months “has taken decisions to both
expand the quantity of goods arriving in the Gaza Strip as well
as the diversity of goods entering the Gaza Strip,” said  Mark Regev , a spokesman for Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu . “These policies will continue.”  
 In Washington,  Michael Hammer , a spokesman for the
National Security Council, declined to comment on Blair’s
remarks.  
 A Palestinian official who supervises aid shipments into
Gaza said Israel today started allowing in ketchup, mayonnaise,
sewing needles and thread. Last week, Gazans were allowed to
resume importing soft drinks, fruit juice, spices and potato
chips, said Raed Fatouh, the Palestinian Authority’s liaison
officer at the Kerem Shalom crossing.  
 An Israeli security official confirmed last week’s list
and said talks to permit in those goods had been going on for
several weeks. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he
wasn’t authorized to comment on the matter and was not
immediately available to comment on today’s items.  
 Smuggled Arms  
 “The primary issue here is the blockade in order to
prevent the Hamas from rearming itself to the teeth,” Ayalon
said. “They get all these smuggled arms from Iran and Hezbollah
and Syria.”  
 Ayalon also said that some 75 people among the passengers
aboard the vessel on which the violence took place, were
“mercenaries” who prepared themselves to ambush the Israeli
commandos when they boarded the ship from helicopters. He said
each was found to be carrying $10,000 when taken into Israeli
custody and “were associated with al-Qaeda and other terror
organizations.” He said they were “graduates” of Afghanistan
or Iraq.  
 Israel says that on May 31 its soldiers were attacked with
knives and clubs and seven were wounded, including by gunfire
after people aboard one of the ships managed to grab Israeli
firearms.  
 Activists have said they threw the firearms into the sea
and that the Israelis instigated the violence. Turkish Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  accused Israel of carrying out a
massacre.  
 Warnings  
 Israel has said it issued numerous warnings to the Gaza-
bound flotilla asking it to change course for the port of Ashdod
and unload there, before it seized the vessels.  
 The other five vessels, as well as a separate boat that
arrived June 5, were taken over peacefully.  
 Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, said
international participation would boost the credibility of
Israel’s investigation into the raid.  
 “An international component would strengthen the
investigation and certainly buttress its credibility in the eyes
of the international community,” Rice said today on Fox News
Sunday. “We’ve had discussions with Israel as to how and
whether they might go about doing that.”  
 Impartial Investigation  
 She said the U.S. believes Israel can conduct a “credible
and impartial” investigation of the May 31 incident.  
 House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer  and House Republican
Leader  John Boehner , appearing on ABC’s “This Week,” said they
supported Israel’s actions.  
 “It’s pretty clear to many of us who’ve looked into this
that this last ship was intended to be a problem, intended to
cause a conflict,” said Boehner of Ohio.  
 Israel has been blockading Gaza since Hamas ousted forces
loyal to President  Mahmoud Abbas ’s Fatah group and seized full
control in June 2007, after winning Palestinian parliamentary
elections the previous year.  
 Hamas’s charter calls for the destruction of the Jewish
state. Hamas leaders say they will renounce violence when Israel
withdraws from territory occupied in 1967 and allows
Palestinians to return to areas in Israel from which they fled
in 1948.  
 Israel launched a military operation in Gaza in December
2008, which it said was aimed at stopping the firing of rockets
into its territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis
were killed in the three-week offensive that ended Jan. 18,
2009. Since then, more than 400 rockets have been fired from
Gaza into Israel, killing one foreign worker last March, the
Israeli army said.  
 Israel says its blockade of Gaza is legal because it is in
“a state of armed conflict” with Hamas. Some countries, such
as Turkey, dispute the legality of the blockade.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        