-- It All Depends on Meaning of War as Israel Faces Critics of Gaza Blockade
-- Henry Meyer
-- 2010-06-14T12:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/it-all-depends-on-meaning-of-war-as-israel-faces-critics-of-gaza-blockade.html

          
          
             Israel has responded to criticism of
its deadly raid on a Gaza-bound aid flotilla by saying it acted
to enforce a legal blockade that prevents the Hamas-controlled
enclave “from becoming a giant arsenal.”  
 Israel has a “duty to maintain the safety of citizens who
have been under attack for many years by the terrorist
organizations,” the  Ministry of Justice  said June 1. Thwarting
these groups “is sanctioned by international customary law,”
the ministry said in a filing to the country’s High Court of
Justice.  
 The legality of Israel’s blockade turns on two issues, said
 Robin Churchill , a professor of international law at the
University of Dundee in Scotland: Whether Israel’s conflict with
Hamas is a full-fledged war and whether the military benefit is
proportionate to the suffering it imposes on the civilian
population.  
 Israel, while opposing an international investigation of
the May 31 raid on a Gaza aid flotilla that left nine pro-
Palestinian activists dead, announced yesterday it was setting
up a commission to conduct an inquiry. The probe will include an
examination of “the conformity of the naval blockade with the
rules of international law” as well as “the security
circumstances surrounding the imposition” of the blockade, the
government said in a statement.  
 ‘Important Step’  
 The panel, which was approved today by the Cabinet, will be
headed by former Israeli supreme court judge Jacob Turkel. It
will have two foreign observers: Nobel Peace Prize winner and
Northern Ireland politician  David Trimble , and Ken Watkin,
former judge advocate general of Canada’s armed forces. Trimble
and Watkin will sit in on discussions and won’t have the right
to vote, Minister without Portfolio  Benny Begin  said on Israel
Army Radio.  
 The Obama administration welcomed the announcement as “an
important step forward.” Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said an Israeli probe wouldn’t be impartial and that
an international inquiry was needed to establish what happened.  
 Israel won’t allow Gaza to become an “Iranian port,”
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said June 5. Israel and the
U.S. accuse Iran of arming and funding Hamas, which they and the
European Union consider a terrorist organization.  
 The  San Remo Manual on International Law Applicable to
Armed Conflicts at Sea , a 1994 code of conduct accepted
globally, allows naval blockades, provided there is a state of
war between the parties, according to Churchill.  
 Not A War  
 “The Israeli view is that they have an almost permanent
right of self-defense against Gaza,” Churchill said in a
telephone interview.  
 The legal situation is different from the time of Israel’s
22-day conflict with Hamas in Gaza that began in December 2008,
 Said Mahmoudi , a professor of international law at Stockholm
University, said in a telephone interview.  
 “If you are in state of war, you can have a blockade, you
can stop ships on open sea as part of the blockade, you can
visit ships, you can interrogate people, even civilians, and you
can take the ship by force,” Mahmoudi said.  
 Unlike in 2008-2009, “the conflict at the border now and
the occasional shootings there do not turn the situation into a
war,” he said.  
 Israel says the three-week military offensive in Gaza in
2008 was meant to stop rocket and mortar attacks by Hamas and
other Palestinian militants. About 3,200 were fired from the
territory that year, according to the Israeli army. More than
1,100 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were killed in the conflict.  
 Self-Defense  
 The number of projectiles fired from Gaza totaled 708 last
year and about 160 so far this year, the Israeli army said June
8. One foreign worker was killed last March. The declining
number of attacks undermines Israel’s argument that it is in a
virtual state of war with Hamas, Churchill said.  
 The blockade may still be covered by international law
because Israel can make a case of self-defense, even though it
appears to have used “excessive” force in the May 31 raid,
Anthony Aust, a former legal adviser to the U.K. Foreign Office,
said in a phone interview from London.  
 “Gaza is a threat to Israel and therefore one way of
preventing arms reaching Gaza is by enforcing a blockade,” he
said.  
 Leslie Gelb , president emeritus of the New York-based
Council on Foreign Relations and a former U.S. assistant
secretary of state, agreed that Israel was acting legally even
though its forces “badly mishandled” the raid on the aid ship.  
 “Theirs was a mistake in pursuit of a legal goal, not a
war crime,” Gelb wrote in the  Daily Beast  on May 31.  
 Pearl Harbor  
 The U.S. and Britain “were at war with Germany and Japan
and blockaded them,” Gelb wrote. “I can’t remember
international lawyers saying those blockades were illegal, even
though they took place on the high seas in international
waters.”  
 To accept this view, one must also accept that Hamas’s
firing rockets into Israel from Gaza is equivalent to Japan’s
attack on Pearl Harbor and Germany’s invasion of Poland and air
raids on the U.K., Churchill said.  
 International law “has changed quite substantially since
1945, but even if you applied contemporary law to the situation
in World War II, the allied forces against Germany were acting
in collective self-defense,” he said.  
 On the issue of proportionality, “even though a blockade
can be used in a state of war, there is one situation where a
blockade cannot be used, and that is where it blocks essential
food and medicine from going in,” Churchill said. As a result,
Israel’s action “seems illegal right now,” he said.  
 Humanitarian Crisis  
 Palestinians, backed by the United Nations and human-rights
groups, say restrictions on food imports and construction
materials have created a humanitarian crisis. The flotilla was
carrying material for rebuilding homes destroyed by war in Gaza,
medical equipment and school supplies.  
 Israel denies that such a crisis exists, saying it
restricts imports of building materials to Gaza because they can
be used to build rockets, bunkers or bombs. Officials said they
also were concerned about weapons being hidden in food
packaging.  
 Israel’s Deputy Foreign Minister  Danny Ayalon  said in an
interview yesterday on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” television
program that the government is easing its import restrictions on
Gaza to allow in more types of foods.  Tony Blair , the former
British prime minister who is now a UN envoy for the Middle
East, told the British Broadcasting Corp. yesterday that a
partial lifting by Israel of its blockade could be imminent.  
 Egypt’s Blockade  
 Egypt has also kept its northern border with Gaza largely
closed since Hamas took over. Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak 
ordered the indefinite opening of his country’s Rafah border
crossing after the ship attack. Egyptian officials have said the
crossing can’t be permanently opened because they don’t
recognize the Hamas administration.  
 Measuring the component parts of the proportionality
argument is difficult because the parameters are often vague,
 Moshe Hirsch , a professor in the Faculty of Law’s Department of
International Relations at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem,
said in a telephone interview.  
 “But if these components are not proportional, then the
blockade is not proportional, and the seizure of the ships may
also not be proportional,” Hirsch said.  
 Russia, the European Union and Turkey have called on Israel
to lift the cordon that began in 2007 when Hamas seized full
control of the Gaza Strip.  
 ‘Disproportionate Force’  
 French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  criticized Israel’s
“disproportionate use of force” during the raid. Turkish Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  accused Israel of carrying out a
“massacre” of unarmed humanitarian volunteers.  
 The U.S. backs Israel’s prerogative to restrict access to
Gaza because it is “at war with Hamas,” and “has a right to
know whether or not arms are being smuggled in,” Vice-President
 Joe Biden  said June 2 on the “Charlie Rose” television show.  
 Hamas’s charter calls for the destruction of the Jewish
state. Hamas leaders have said they will renounce violence when
Israel withdraws from territory it occupied in 1967 and allows
Palestinians to return to areas in Israel from which they fled
in 1948.  
 President  Barack Obama ’s administration has avoided
censuring Israel directly on the flotilla incident, supporting a
June 1 statement by the UN Security Council that condemned
“acts which resulted” in the deaths without singling out
Israel for blame.  
 “The situation in Gaza is “unsustainable,” Obama said
June 9. The key “is making sure that Israel’s security needs
are met but that the needs of the people in Gaza are also met.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Dubai at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu chairs the weekly cabinet meeting at his office in Jerusalem on June 13, 2010. Photographer: Uriel Sinai/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
