-- Japan's `Falcon' Returns With Space Dust After Seven-Year Asteroid Mission
-- Fergus Maguire
-- 2010-06-14T07:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/japan-s-falcon-space-probe-returns-after-seven-year-asteroid-mission.html

          
          
             A Japanese space capsule, which
landed in the Australian Outback last night, may contain the
first sample collected from an asteroid, giving scientists clues
into the formation of the solar system.  
 The capsule landed about 11:56 p.m. yesterday Tokyo time in
the Woomera area of southern Australia after a seven-year
mission, the  Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency  said on its
website. It parachuted to earth after being ejected from the
Hayabusa spacecraft, which burnt up on re-entry.  
 Analyzing any dust or rock collected from Itokawa, a 540
meter-long  asteroid , may help scientists learn more about the
origin and development of the solar system, said Trevor Ireland,
an Australian scientist. The completion of the 21 billion yen
($229 million) mission comes as Japan seeks to double the size
of its space industry and as China and India increase investment.  
 “Even a few specks of dust will be a fantastic opportunity
to look back 4.5 billion years,” said Ireland, an Australian
National University professor who will be part of an
international team to study the sample. “Unlike the Earth,
asteroids aren’t geologically active so the rock is just like it
was when the solar system was formed.”  
 Pieces of asteroid that fall to earth as meteorites are
altered by high temperatures when entering the atmosphere.  
 “The fact that any sample hasn’t been directly exposed to
the atmosphere is what makes this special,” Ireland said.
“Whether the capsule actually contains anything is the $1
million question.”  
 NEC Corp., which developed the spacecraft’s ion engines
and sample collection equipment, are among Japanese companies
involved in the project.  
 Hayabusa II  
 Japan should double the size of its space industry to 15
trillion yen by 2020 from 7 trillion yen this year, a government
 report  released in May said. The Japanese space agency is
considering launching Hayabusa II in 2014.  
 “The successful return has helped establish the sampling
technology for the next mission,” said Akio Fujimura, a
professor with Japan’s space agency.  
 Hayabusa, Japanese for “falcon,” had a series of
mechanical problems, including fuel leaks and engine failures
during 6 billion kilometers (3.7 billion miles) journey. It was
launched in May 2003 and landed on the potato-shaped Itokawa in
November 2005.  
 The capsule, which is shaped like a flying saucer and about
40 centimeter long, will be returned to Japan and opened in
about two weeks after scientists complete an examination of the
exterior.  
 “Hayabusa is expected to be carrying back less than 1 gram
of Itokawa dust,” said Mitsuru Ebihara, a professor at Tokyo
Metropolitan University who is a member of the Hayabusa
Asteroidal Sample Preliminary Examination Team, or Haspet.
“Expectations may be too great.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kazuyo Sawa  in Tokyo at 
 ksawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Fergus Maguire in Tokyo at 
 fmaguire@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        