-- Kuwait's Power Consumption Hits Record as Temperature Reaches 50 Celsius
-- Fiona MacDonald
-- 2010-06-13T14:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/kuwait-s-power-consumption-hits-record-as-temperature-reaches-50-celsius.html

          
          
             Power consumption in Kuwait reached
a record 10,823 megawatts today and is expected to climb further
as summer temperatures rise, a spokesman at the Ministry of
Electricity and Water said.  
 “This is a new record for power consumption, and we expect
it to increase in the next three to four days,” Meshan al-
Otaibi said in a phone interview. The emirate currently can
generate 11,100 megawatts of electricity, and two power units
now under maintenance will add a combined 500 megawatts in mid-
July, al-Otaibi said.  
 The official maximum temperature recorded at Kuwait
International Airport today was 49.5 degrees Celsius (121
Fahrenheit), according to the  website  of the Directorate General
of Civil Aviation. Abdaly, a border post in northern Kuwait
adjacent to Iraq, was expected to record temperatures of as high
as 51 degrees Celsius today. Peak consumption will probably
reach 11,000 megawatts this summer, up 13.4 percent from last
year’s peak rate, al-Otaibi said.  
 The welfare system in Kuwait, where temperatures typically
reach 50 degrees Celsius in the summer, subsidizes electricity
for 1.1 million Kuwaitis and 2.35 million expatriates, who pay 2
fils (7 cents) a kilowatt-hour. In 2005, the government granted
an exemption of as much as 2,000 dinars ($6,895) for each
Kuwaiti household’s power bills, and rarely penalizes those who
don’t pay.  
 Kuwait, the third-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, is seeking to increase its output
of natural gas for power production. The government wants more
gas to boost manufacturing, develop new industries such as
tourism and meet demand from expanding residential developments.
In February,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  signed an enhanced technical
services contract to help boost output from Kuwait’s Jurassic-
era reserves of natural gas.  
 The Persian Gulf country started importing liquefied
natural gas from Shell last summer to help fuel its power
stations. Kuwait now has four-year LNG supply contracts with
Shell and Vitol Group.  
 Editor: Bruce Stanley, Philip Sanders  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fiona MacDonald  in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        