-- Kyrgyzstan Death Toll Rises as Gunmen Target Ethnic Uzbeks, Refugees Flee
-- Anastasia Ustinova
-- 2010-06-14T12:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/kyrgyzstan-extends-state-of-emergency-to-jalalabad-as-riots-leave-97-dead.html

          
          
             Kyrgyzstan’s ethnic violence
continued today as gangs of gunmen raided Uzbek districts and
the death toll mounted, news organizations reported.  
 The Associated Press said there are claims at least 200
Uzbeks have been buried, citing the head of the Uzbek National
Center, Jallahitdin Jalilatdinov. Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  is meeting central Asian officials today in a bid to
stem the unrest as neighboring Uzbekistan said the bloodshed is
aimed at provoking ethnic tension.  
 Gangs of Kyrgyz gunmen continued raids on Uzbek enclaves
and a refugee crisis grew at the border with Uzbekistan. The
city of Osh, where mobs ran riot for three days, was reported as
quiet today by the New York Times.  
 “There is every reason to conclude such actions have an
organized, managed and provocative character,” the Uzbek
Foreign Ministry said in a statement on its website today. “We
have no doubt that all this is taking place under the
instigation of forces whose interests are totally far from the
interests of the Kyrgyz people.”  
 Security Council secretaries of the Collective Security
Treaty Organization, which comprises central Asian former Soviet
republics, are meeting Medvedev today to discuss the crisis,
Interfax said, citing his press secretary Natalia Timakova. More
than 80 human rights groups have called on Russia to send peace-
keeping troops to end the bloodshed, Interfax said today.  
 Emergency  
 Kyrgyzstan’s interim government yesterday extended a state
of emergency throughout the Jalalabad region as tens of
thousands of refugees fled the country and Russia sent a
battalion of soldiers to protect its military base.  
 About 60,000 refugees who fled the violence were registered
in the Andijan border region, though the number doesn’t count
thousands of children, the deputy head of Uzbek emergency
services in the region told Agence France-Presse today. The AP
reported at least 100,000 had fled for the border and were
awaiting entry into Uzebekistan, citing Jalilatdinov.  
 The Kyrgyz government declared a partial mobilization of
civilian reservists and authorized troops to shoot to kill
rioters in a bid to stabilize the situation in the south.  
 The U.S. and Russia have been jostling for influence in
Kyrgyzstan, where both countries have air bases. Russia agreed
in April to give the provisional government $50 million. Edil
Baisalov, the government’s chief of staff, said at the time that
the U.S. planned to give emergency aid.  
 Growth Prospects  
 The U.S. relies on the Manas air base outside the capital
Bishkek to support operations in Afghanistan after Uzbekistan
evicted the American military in 2005.  
 The violence may hurt Kyrgyzstan’s economic growth
prospects, according to the International Monetary Fund. Growth
in Central Asia and the Caucasus will accelerate to 4.3 percent
in 2010 as exports increase, capital flows turn positive and the
drop in money sent home from abroad slows, the IMF said in a May
25 report.  
 Kyrgyzstan’s projected 4.6 percent expansion may be damped
by political tensions that started in April and led to the
ouster of President  Kurmanbek Bakiyev , the fund said.  
 The landlocked country depends on remittances from migrant
workers in Russia for about 40 percent of national income, and
also relies on rent paid by the U.S. and Russia for their bases.
Kyrgyzstan’s average monthly wage was $132 in January, according
to the country’s National Statistical Committee.  
 Poverty Line  
 About a third of the population lives below the poverty
level, making the country eligible for aid from the
International Development Association, the World Bank’s support
arm for the poorest economies.  
 The som, which was created as a managed currency in 1993 to
replace the Russian ruble after the collapse of the Soviet
Union, has lost 1.7 percent against the dollar since the
uprising against Bakiyev in April and is down 21 percent over
the past two years.  
 The violence erupted late on June 10 in an area that was a
focus of unrest in April when supporters of Bakiyev clashed with
groups loyal to the country’s interim government.  
 The Kremlin has sent three aircraft carrying troops to
protect Russia’s Kant military base, Interfax reported, citing
an unidentified military official.  Dmitry Peskov , a spokesman
for Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , yesterday said Russia
wouldn’t send troops after the interim leader  Roza Otunbayeva 
asked Moscow to help quell ethnic violence. A call to Peskov
wasn’t immediately returned yesterday.  
 ‘Very Concerned’  
 In a statement released yesterday in Washington, State
Department spokesman  Philip Crowley  said the U.S. “calls for a
rapid restoration of peace and public order in the city of Osh
and elsewhere where it appears ethnic violence is occurring.”  
 The European Union’s foreign policy chief,  Catherine Ashton , said the bloc was “very concerned” at the escalating
crisis.  
 “It is very, very important to me that we get order
restored,” she told reporters before a meeting of European
Union foreign ministers in Luxembourg today.  
 Bakiyev, who has taken refuge in Belarus, denied
accusations yesterday by the government that he is involved in
the unrest, Interfax said, citing Bakiyev.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Kyrgyz soldiers on an armoured vehicle drive past a group of people in Osh on June 11, 2010. Source: STR/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
