-- Kyrgyzstan Extends State of Emergency to Jalalabad as Riots Leave 97 Dead
-- Anastasia Ustinova
-- 2010-06-13T13:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/kyrgyzstan-extends-state-of-emergency-to-jalabad-as-deaths-injuries-rise.html

          
          
             Kyrgyzstan’s interim government
extended a state of emergency throughout the Jalalabad region
after ethnic riots left as many as 97 dead and 1,247 injured.  
 The government declared a partial mobilization of civilian
reservists and authorized troops to shoot to kill rioters in a
bid to stabilize the situation in the south of the country where
Kyrgyz and Uzbek groups clashed for a third day, burning down
houses and looting stores.  
 “If we don’t take timely and effective measures, the
unrest could become much more serious and descend into a
regional conflict,” the government said on its  website  today.  
 The state-run RIA Novosti reported the death toll, citing
an unidentified local health ministry official.  
 The violence erupted late on June 10 in the southern Osh
region, which was a focus of unrest in April when supporters of
deposed Kyrgyz President  Kurmanbek Bakiyev  clashed with groups
loyal to the country’s interim government.  
 Bakiyev fled to neighboring Kazakhstan after holding out
for a week in the south of the country. He later took refuge in
Belarus.  
 Bakiyev has denied accusations by the government that he is
involved in the unrest, Interfax said today, citing Bakiyev.  
 Russia declined to send troops to the region after the
interim leader  Roza Otunbayeva  had asked Moscow to quell ethnic
violence.  
 Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  called a June 14 meeting
of the Collective Security Treaty Organization to discuss the
unrest, RIA said, citing the Kremlin press office. The
organization is composed of Russia and six ex-Soviet republics,
including Kyrgyzstan. Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan
and Uzbekistan are the other members.  
 In a statement released today in Washington, State
Department spokesman  Philip Crowley  said the U.S. “calls for a
rapid restoration of peace and public order in the city of Osh
and elsewhere where it appears ethnic violence is occurring.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        