-- Nakheel Resolves Pay Dispute on Air-Conditioning Provider in Dubai Project
-- Ayesha Daya
-- 2010-06-13T09:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/nakheel-payment-dispute-may-leave-dubai-residents-sweltering-week-ahead.html

          
          
             Nakheel PJSC, the Dubai World
construction unit that received state cash to pay contractors
and suppliers, said it had resolved a dispute with a supplier
and that air conditioning wouldn’t be cut off in one of its
projects.  
 Occupants of  Discovery Gardens , a Nakheel development that
includes more than one hundred apartment blocks, had been
informed that Palm Utilities would halt chilled water supplies,
stalling air conditioning systems, on June 15 as temperatures
 surpass  40 degrees Celsius (104 Fahrenheit).  
 “An error has been rectified,” a spokesperson for Nakheel
said by e-mail. “No utilities will be cut off.”  
 Nakheel, whose projects include palm-shaped islands off
Dubai’s coast, is restructuring $10.5 billion of financial
liabilities and has asked trade creditors to wait five years to
receive full payment after falling behind on its bills. The
Dubai government in March pledged to pump $8 billion in cash
into Nakheel to help it pay contractors and suppliers and
complete developments.  
 “Due to the building owner’s continuing failure to enter
into a legally binding contract with us, we have served on the
building owner a ‘Notice of Disconnection’ of chilled water
supply,” Palm Utilities unit Palm District Cooling said in
posters put up in the entrance and lift of Discovery Gardens
Building 107.  
 Dubai World, the state-owned holding company that includes
Nakheel and Palm Utilities among its construction, hotel and
shipping assets, reached an agreement last month with its main
creditor group to restructure $23.5 billion of liabilities.
Terms include extending repayment dates and converting loans
into equity.  
 Palm Utilities did not immediately respond to questions
when contacted by e-mail and telephone by Bloomberg. A spokesman
for Dubai World declined to comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Dubai 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        