-- Israel Announces Public Probe Into Gaza Flotilla Raid
-- Calev Ben-David
-- 2010-06-14T00:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/netanyahu-announces-independent-public-inquiry-into-gaza-flotilla-raid.html

          
          
             Israel announced it is setting up an
“independent” public probe into its raid on a Gaza-bound
flotilla in which nine Turkish activists were killed. The probe
will include two foreign observers.  
 The commission will examine “the security circumstances
surrounding the imposition of the naval blockade on the Gaza
Strip and the conformity of the naval blockade with the rules of
international law,” the office of Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said in an e-mailed  statement . It will also look into
“the conformity of the actions taken by Israel to enforce the
naval blockade in the incident of 31 May 2010 with the rules of
international law.”  
 The panel will be headed by former Israeli supreme court
judge Jacob Turkel. The two foreign observers are Nobel Peace
Prize winner and Northern Ireland politician  David Trimble , and
Ken Watkin, former Judge Advocate General of Canada’s armed
forces.  
 Demands for an international probe began after Israel’s May
31 raid in international waters on six ships that were
attempting to breach its three-year blockade on Hamas-controlled
Gaza. Israel last year refused to participate in a United
Nations investigation of the 2008 Gaza war, an inquiry its
leaders rejected as one-sided, and Netanyahu turned down a
proposal for a UN-led probe into the ship incident.  
 Independent Commission  
 The inquiry will be conducted by “an independent public
commission” that will examine Israel’s May 31 actions “to
prevent vessels from reaching the coast of the Gaza Strip,” the
statement said.  
 The prime minister will bring his proposal to the Cabinet
for a vote today.  
 The Obama administration welcomed the announcement as “an
important step forward.” In a statement, White House Press
Secretary  Robert Gibbs  reiterated the administration’s support
for “a prompt, impartial, credible and transparent
investigation.”  
 The statement said Israel “has a military justice system
that meets international standards,” that the administration
“will not prejudge the process or its outcome” and that it
expects the findings to be “presented to the international
community.”  
 Radical Terror Groups  
 The commission’s members also include retired Israeli
general  Amos Horev  and international law expert Shabtai Rosenne.  
 It will also investigate “the actions taken by the
organizers of the flotilla and its participants, as well as
their identity.” Israel has alleged that some members of the
flotilla had links to radical Islamic terror groups.  
 The panel will have the authority to request information
from any Israeli government official, including Netanyahu and
“including through testimony before the Commission,” the
statement said. It will present its findings to the prime
minister upon completion of its investigation.  
 The Israel Defense Forces said June 8 that it had appointed
Major-General  Giora Eiland  to lead a separate military
investigation of the raid.  
 The UN inquiry into the Gaza war, led by former UN
prosecutor and South African judge  Richard Goldstone , accused
Israel and Hamas of war crimes and called on them to investigate
the charges.  
 Numerous Warnings  
 Israel said it issued numerous warnings to the Gaza-bound
flotilla to change course for the port of Ashdod and unload
there. It says that soldiers were attacked with knives and clubs
and seven were wounded, including by gunfire, after people
aboard one of the ships managed to grab Israeli firearms.
Activists have said they threw the firearms into the sea and
that the Israelis instigated the violence.  
 Israel has imposed restrictions on Gaza since the Islamic
Hamas movement, which won Palestinian parliamentary elections in
2006, ousted forces loyal to President  Mahmoud Abbas ’s Fatah
group and seized full control of the territory in 2007. Hamas is
considered a terrorist organization by the U.S., the European
Union and Israel.  
 The blockade of Gaza is legal, according to Israel, because
it is in “a state of armed conflict” with Hamas. Criticism
within Israel of the operation has focused largely on the
execution of the raid and not the blockade, which polls show
most Israelis support. Some countries, such as Turkey, dispute
the legality of the blockade.  
 Humanitarian Crisis  
 Palestinians, backed by the UN and human-rights groups, say
the restrictions on food imports and construction materials have
created a humanitarian crisis. Israel denies that such a crisis
exists, saying it restricts imports of building materials to
Gaza because they can be used to build rockets, bunkers or
bombs. Officials said they also were concerned about weapons
being hidden in food packaging.  
 Israel launched a three-week military offensive in Gaza in
December 2008 that it said was meant to stop the firing of
rockets by Hamas and other Palestinian militants into its
territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict.  
 More than 400 rockets and mortars have been fired from Gaza
into Israel since the end of the 2008 military operation,
killing one foreign worker last March, the Israeli army said.  
 Hamas’s charter calls for the destruction of the Jewish
state. Hamas leaders say they will renounce violence when Israel
withdraws from territory occupied in 1967 and allows
Palestinians to return to areas in Israel from which they fled
in 1948.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu chairs the weekly cabinet meeting at his office in Jerusalem on June 13, 2010. Photographer: Uriel Sinai/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
