-- New Zealand's Retail Sales Fall 0.3% in April on Home Price Drop, Wages
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-06-14T01:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/new-zealand-retail-sales-fall-as-households-boost-savings-after-recession.html

          
          
             New Zealand  retail sales  fell for
the second time in three months as house prices declined and
wage growth slowed, giving the central bank less room to raise
interest rates to the level reached three years ago.  
 Sales  slid 0.3 percent in April from March when they rose a
revised 0.5 percent, seasonally adjusted, Statistics New Zealand
said in Wellington today. The decline was more than the 0.2
percent median forecast of 12 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg 
News.  
 Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor  Alan Bollard  on June
10 raised the official cash rate a quarter point to 2.75
percent, the first increase in three years, and said further
increases will be gradual. The central bank is unlikely to raise
borrowing costs to the 8.25 percent peak seen in 2007 because
households are preferring to save rather than spend, ANZ
National Bank Ltd. said.  
 “Consumers are still cautious,” said  Khoon Goh , senior
economist at ANZ National in Wellington. “Ongoing consumer
spending constraint will not stop the Reserve Bank from hiking
further, but it will be influential in terms of where the cash
rate ends up.”  
 New Zealand’s dollar bought 69.21 U.S. cents at 1:17 p.m.
in Wellington from 69.17 cents immediately before the report.  
 The monthly report doesn’t adjust for price changes. Food
prices fell 0.5 percent in April. Fuel prices were unchanged,
according to government figures. Adding to the sales decline,
many stores were required to close for part of the Easter
vacation which began on April 2.  
 Core Sales  
 Core  sales , which exclude vehicles dealers, fuel outlets
and workshops, fell 0.2 percent from March when they rose 1
percent, today’s report showed. The median estimate of 11
economists was for a 0.4 percent decline.  
 House prices  declined 0.4 percent in April from March,
according to figures from the Real Estate Institute. Wages for
non-government workers rose 1.3 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest pace in more than nine years,
the government said May 4.  
 Economists and retailers including  Warehouse Group Ltd. 
expect spending will improve as the jobless rate falls and after
the government on May 20 announced income-tax cuts and an
increase in sales tax, which will push up prices on Oct. 1.  
 “We see recovery, but it’s likely to take time,”
 Warehouse Group , the nation’s largest discount retailer, said in
a presentation to investors on June 3.  
 Rate Forecast  
 Bollard will likely raise borrowing costs at the next three
meetings, according to all 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The  official cash rate  will be 5 percent by the end of
2011, according to the median forecast in the survey.  
 Sales declined at 15 of 24 store categories surveyed in
April, led by department stores, chemists and fuel outlets,
today’s report showed.  
 Department-store sales fell 3.3 percent from March. Chemist
sales declined 3.6 percent. Vehicle sales slid for a third
month, dropping 0.6 percent. Purchases from fuel outlets dropped
for the first time in six months, falling 1.1 percent.  
 Supermarkets and grocery stores, which make up about a
quarter of core sales, saw receipts rise 0.5 percent.
Accommodation sales surged 7 percent, the biggest gain in more
than six years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        