-- Nokia Loses Battle for Apps as IPhone, Android Snare Developers
-- Diana ben-Aaron
-- 2010-06-13T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/nokia-s-delay-on-shiny-things-leaves-it-last-in-line-for-apps-developers.html

          
          
             As  Nokia Oyj  prepares to introduce
its latest flagship smartphone, developer Jan Ole Suhr says he
knows why the brains behind addictive applications are shunning
the Finnish company.  
 “It’s difficult for small developers to invest in the
smartphone segment of Nokia when nobody knows its future,” said
Suhr, creator of Twitter application “ Gravity ,” which was
showcased by Nokia when it opened its Ovi applications store
last year. “The new shiny things aren’t available and there’s
only the old-fashioned stuff, where it takes a lot of work to
make the software look good.”  
 Nokia’s 41 percent share of the smartphone market, the
fastest-growing piece of the mobile-phone industry, has failed
to make it the platform of choice for software writers. It is
instead at the bottom of the pile, behind  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone
and devices based on  Google Inc. ’s Android.  
 Developers of games, music, videos, media and other apps
want to see if the N8, Nokia’s first device running the Symbian
3 system for touchscreen phones, delivers on promises of
improved look and feel, an easier interface and operability
across devices -- in short, if it’s more like an iPhone. For
many, the device scheduled to be released in the third quarter
has been too slow in the making and may still disappoint.  
 “Symbian needs a more competitive platform to attract
users, early adopters who are the sort of people who download
lots of apps,” said Gartner Inc. analyst  Nick Jones . “We may
have to wait until Symbian 4 to get a really compelling Symbian
device, so that the ecosystem may not start to achieve its full
potential until 2011.”  
 ‘No Visibility’  
 The world’s largest mobile-phone maker’s failure to lure
apps developers, whose products help sell iPhones and Android
devices, adds to the perception that its devices are behind the
times. With Apple last week unveiling iPhone 4, with a video-
chat feature, and Android devices chalking up sales, the Espoo,
Finland-based Nokia risks not being able to recoup lost ground.  
 Nokia may post lower-than-expected second-quarter profit
because of a weak product range and falling prices, Macquarie
Group Ltd. analysts said last week. There’s “no visibility on
the N8, continued heavy competition in handsets and softening
demand,”  Phil Cusick  and colleagues wrote in a June 9 report.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo  said in April
he expects sales of handsets and associated services to be
between 6.7 billion euros and 7.2 billion euros in the second
quarter. He cut the company’s full-year margin forecast, citing
the slow development of the N8.  
 Apple Effect  
 Nokia shares  have plummeted  51 percent since Apple opened
its App Store on July 11, 2008. Its market value has shrunk to
29 billion euros from 203 billion euros in 1999, when it was
Europe’s most-valuable company.  
 Nokia, which doesn’t disclose its catalog size, says it has
1.7 million downloads a day of apps including QuickOffice, Skype
Internet calling service, Shazam music identifier, Spotify
music, Snake games and Lonely Planet travel guides. The
company’s secrecy about the number of apps is “probably because
it’s still rather small,” said Gartner’s Jones.  
 Its offerings lag behind Apple’s App Store, which has more
than 225,000 apps. Android has  more than 70,000 , according to
Androlib.com, which tracks the platform’s apps.  
 More than 5 billion programs have been downloaded from its
store, Apple says. IPhone users spend more on apps than people
with Android devices, who in turn spend more than users of Nokia
handsets, developers say. That drives software efforts.  
 ‘Six of Six’  
 Nokia opened the Ovi Store to offer developers a channel to
the 68 million people a year who buy its smartphones. Developers
spoiled by iPhone tools say they found Nokia’s software and
storefront clunky. Many are turning to Android and  Research In
Motion’s  BlackBerry.  
 “The Ovi Store doesn’t have any traction in the U.S.,”
said  Ken Willner , CEO of  Zumobi Inc.  in Seattle “They’re
probably number six of six,” behind Apple, Google, Palm Inc.,
RIM and Microsoft Corp.  
 Willner’s company, whose applications present media content
such as MSNBC and Parenting magazine on iPhones, chose Android-
run devices as its second platform, bypassing Nokia.  
 “Large numbers of developers see Nokia as less relevant
for distributing apps,” said  Martin Garner , a London-based
analyst at CCS Insight. “They prefer to work with software that
has obvious growth momentum in the market.”  
 Shrinking Share  
 The market share of Symbian, Nokia’s main smartphone
operating system, fell to 44.3 percent in  the first quarter  from
48.8 percent a year ago, according to Gartner. Although mostly
on Nokia phones, Symbian is also used by  Samsung Electronics Co. 
and Sony Ericsson. iPhone’s share rose to 15.4 percent from 10.5
percent, while Android soared to 9.6 percent from 1.6 percent.  
 Nokia says its new line of smartphones with Symbian 3 and
Symbian 4 improves the user interface and carries a new version
of tools for developers, making cross-device development easier.  
 “You’ll see a big improvement in terms of the store
experience with the introduction of the N8, as well as with
subsequent devices,” said  George Linardos , the Nokia vice
president who runs the Ovi Store. He cautioned that there won’t
be any “immaculate moment” when the store is perfect. “I look
at this as the first innings of a very, very long game.”  
 Switching to Android  
 Many developers don’t want to wait, and say they can’t take
the risk of developing for a yet-to-be-perfected platform. Even
long-time Nokia software authors are looking elsewhere.  
 Take  Alan Masarek , chief executive officer of  Quickoffice
Inc.  in Plano, Texas. Nokia helped his 150-person company become
one of the biggest independent mobile apps developers with its
stripped-down word processor and spreadsheet running on more
than 240 million mobile devices worldwide.  
 About 1 1/2 years ago Masarek, whose software is preloaded
on all Nokia Symbian devices, began working on Android phones.  
 “That in hindsight has proven to be a good move,” he
said. “The numbers on Android are very ascendant right now.
We’re on all these devices that just started shipping in
meaningful volumes the last two quarters.”  
 Android-based smartphones threaten to top the iPhone in
2013 in market share, according to Framingham, Massachusetts-
based IDC. Shipments of Android devices may reach 68 million
that year, making it the second-most popular operating system
after Symbian, according to IDC.  
 For Quickoffice, Apple and Android now each account for
about 30 percent of shipments against 40 percent on Symbian.  
 ‘No Comparison’  
 Some developers are shunning Symbian entirely so far.  
 “Development on Symbian has historically been difficult
and Google and Apple leapfrogged Nokia in terms of developer
friendliness in the past two years,” said  Phil Libin , chief
executive officer of Mountain View, Calif.-based  Evernote Corp. 
“There’s no comparison.”  
 His 30-person company’s main product is a note-taking
application that runs on desktop computers, iPhone, Android,
BlackBerry,  Palm ’s WebOS and Microsoft’s Windows Mobile -- all
except Nokia’s Symbian.  
 Apple has a system in place that makes selling and buying
apps easy and painless, said  Joseph Darling , a long-time Nokia
user in Sydney, Australia, who opted to develop his  ParkWatch 
parking monitor application for Apple.  
 “They have a payment system that was already popular for
music and video,” he said. “That takes you from browsing to
buying in a couple of clicks. They’ve brought that entire
community over into apps. It’s hard for others to duplicate.”  
 Gravity’s Suhr, who lives in Berlin, is one of the few
developers to have worked on mastering the Nokia system,
supporting himself by writing apps for it since 2002.  
 His application, which lets users read and write Twitter
messages on phones, was touted by Nokia at the launch of its N97
smartphone last year. Suhr says Gravity is “almost the only
application that makes a Nokia device look like an iPhone.”  
 “It should have been very easy to create Gravity-like
applications to cover other functions,” he says. “And then I
bet the whole reception of the platform and the phone would have
been very different.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An attendee looks at a BlackBerry Pearl 3G mobile device at the BlackBerry WES 2010 Conference in Orlando, Florida. Photographer: Matt Stroshane/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
