-- Obama Urges Congress to Pass `Emergency' Jobs Measure to Maintain Recovery
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-06-13T16:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/obama-urges-congress-to-pass-emergency-jobs-measure-to-maintain-recovery.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  is urging
Congress to pass a jobs bill to avoid layoffs of teachers,
firefighters and police and maintain the U.S. economic recovery.  
 “We cannot afford to slide backward,” Obama said in a
letter to Congress yesterday. “We must take these emergency
measures.”  
 Obama is supporting a measure pending in the Senate that
also would increase taxes on buyout fund managers and take other
steps to shore up the economy. He is requesting $23 billion for
teachers and other public-service workers and $25 billion for
additional federal Medicaid funding for the states, said  Ken Baer , a spokesman for the Office of Management and budget.  
 The president cited strains on state budgets brought on by
unemployment, foreclosures and declining revenue. About 84,000
jobs have been lost at state and local levels so far as
governments try to balance budgets.  
 “If additional action is not taken, hundreds of thousands
of additional jobs could be lost,” he said in the letter.  
 Such conditions leave a “mounting employment crisis at the
state and local level that could set back the pace of our
economic recovery,” Obama said.  
 The Senate package under consideration calls for trimming a
House-passed tax increase on investment fund managers,
quintupling a levy on oil companies and sending an additional
$24 billion to state governments to help fill holes in their
budgets.  
 Unemployment Benefits  
 Other provisions would extend  unemployment  benefits,
restore a series of tax cuts, extend municipal bond subsidies
and increase  Medicare  payments to doctors.  
 Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, one
of the recipients of Obama’s letter, issued a statement last
night saying the president is failing to address the need to
bring federal spending under control.  
 “We have a debt crisis, a jobs crisis, a housing crisis, a
financial crisis, and an oil spill that the American people
clearly don’t believe government is effectively responding to,”
McConnell said. “So you can understand the American people’s
skepticism when they’re told that simply adding more government
is the solution to government’s previous failures.”  
 House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer , a Maryland Democrat,
said there is “spending fatigue” in Congress, though he also
said money is available from the $862 billion stimulus program
passed by Congress last year.  
 ‘Deep Ditch’  
 “You cannot not continue to stimulate an economy that is
still struggling to get out of the deep ditch that we found it
in about 18 months ago,” Hoyer said today on ABC’s “This
Week” program. “Nobody wants to see 300,000 teachers or fire
or police laid off.”  
 Representative  John Boehner  of Ohio, the Republican leader
in the House, said the money shouldn’t be approved without cuts
elsewhere in the budget.  
 “The spending spree in Washington is continuing to run
unabated,” Boehner said on ABC. “To move this without finding
other offsets in spending, I think, is irresponsible. It’s just
putting more debt on the backs of our kids and our grandkids.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        