-- Osborne Shouldn't Protect U.K. Spending on Health, Aid, Lobby Group Says
-- Craig Stirling
-- 2010-06-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/osborne-shouldn-t-protect-u-k-spending-on-health-aid-lobby-group-says.html

          
          
             Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  should abandon his pledge to protect spending on the
U.K. health service and development aid in his  emergency budget 
next week, the British Chambers of Commerce said.  
 “As politically unpalatable as it may be, the decision to
ring-fence spending on health and overseas aid is unrealistic
and unsustainable in the current circumstances,”  David Frost ,
director general of the business lobby group, said today in an
e-mailed statement. “Ring-fencing health will mean deeper and
more drastic cuts to important investment elsewhere, without the
benefit of clear justification.”  
 With the Office for Budget Responsibility due today to
release the economic forecasts underpinning Osborne’s June 22
budget, debate is intensifying on where to prioritize spending
cuts and tax increases.  Britain’s deficit  swelled to a postwar
record of 11.1 percent of  gross domestic product  in the year
through March.  
 “The chancellor faces a difficult balancing act next
week,” Frost said. “The right choices would put business
growth at the very heart of government policy. But short-term
moves on tax or infrastructure spending could hurt business
confidence and economic recovery.”  
 London Mayor  Boris Johnson  today called on Osborne to keep
to spending commitments on the capital’s infrastructure,
including upgrades to the subway system and construction of the
planned Crossrail train service.  
 ‘Engine Room’  
 “Only by continuing to invest in London and the Southeast
-- the engine room of the national economy -- will the nation as
a whole be able to grow its way out of trouble,” Johnson said
in an e-mailed statement. “The U.K. cannot afford the cost to
the economy if the capital is starved of vital investment in
infrastructure projects.”  
 Osborne has already found more than 6 billion pounds ($8.7
billion) in savings and is looking for further reductions to
curb the budget shortfall. Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  yesterday
refused to rule out cuts in military personnel, while Justice
Secretary  Kenneth Clarke  told Sky News that “we cannot afford”
to keep paying legal aid at current levels.  
 “The scale of the reductions in the borrowing and the debt
that we have to achieve far exceed anything that’s been
attempted by any government in my lifetime,” said Clarke, a
former finance minister. “I hope George is going to take a
courageous, very firm and long termed, medium termed view of how
to tackle the debt and get it under control.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Stirling  in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- John Wraith, U.K. fixed-income strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, talks about the outlook for the U.K. Office for Budget Responsibility's growth forecasts and gilt yields.
     He speaks with Mark Barton on Bloomberg Television's "Start Up". (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
