-- Most Read on Bloomberg: U.S. Stocks Fall, Apple Unveils IPhone; SAC Hires
-- Audrey Barker
-- 2010-06-13T04:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/most-read-on-bloomberg-u-s-stocks-fall-apple-unveils-iphone-sac-hires.html

          
          
             The following list comprises the
most-read Bloomberg News reports from the past week.  
 **Lists are based on daily statistics through yesterday, June
11.  
 STORIES  
 1. U.S. Stocks Drop as S&P 500 Posts Worst Two Days in 14 Months  
 June 7 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. stocks declined, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the biggest two-day loss since
March 2009, as Google Inc. and Apple Inc. led a drop in
technology shares and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. was subpoenaed in
the financial-crisis investigation.  
 2. Stocks, Commodities Jump on Economic Outlook; Euro Gains  
 June 10 (Bloomberg) -- Stocks rallied, sending benchmark
indexes to their biggest gains in two weeks, after economic
reports from China, Japan and Australia showed accelerating
growth. The euro strengthened a third day, gold fell and
Treasuries extended losses after a 30-year bond sale.  
 3. Apple Unveils Thinner IPhone With Video-Chat Features  
 June 7 (Bloomberg) -- Apple Inc. Chief Executive Officer
Steve Jobs introduced a thinner IPhone today with a sharper
screen and video-chat features, an attempt to ward off
competition from devices running Google Inc.’s Android software.  
 4. Cohen Expands SAC Team as Hedge Funds Groom Successors  
 June 9 (Bloomberg) -- Steven A. Cohen, the 53-year-old
founder of SAC Capital Advisors LLP, picked four of his best
people earlier this year to help select investments for the $2
billion he personally oversees at the hedge-fund firm.  
 5. BP Spill Shows a Profit Buying 2018 Oil, Selling Spot  
 June 7 (Bloomberg) -- The oil market is signaling that
prices have nowhere to go but up as the biggest spill in U.S.
history curbs drilling and makes it more expensive to develop
new fields.  
 6. Bernanke Says Unemployment Unlikely to Fall Quickly  
 June 8 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said the U.S. recovery probably won’t quickly bring
down the unemployment rate, which is likely to stay “high for a
while.”  
 7. Goldman’s Hudson CDO Said to Be Target of Second SEC Probe  
 June 10 (Bloomberg) -- Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s $2
billion Hudson Mezzanine collateralized debt obligation, sold in
2006, is the target of a probe by the Securities and Exchange
Commission, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  
 8. Banks in ‘Downward Spiral’ Buying Capital in CDOs  
 June 8 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. banks are fighting to preserve
the use of securities that help them appear better capitalized,
even as their investments in each others’ notes perpetuate what
one regulator calls a “downward spiral” of losses.  
 9. Weinstein Profits From Bond Distress as Paulson Loses  
 June 9 (Bloomberg) -- The biggest swings in credit markets
since 2008 are boosting demand for hedge funds that avoid bets
on which way the economy is headed.  
 10. Ex-Lehman Traders’ Fund Had Best Month by Shorting  
 June 11 (Bloomberg) -- Omnix Multi-Strategy Fund, run by
two former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. traders, returned 6
percent in May, when hedge funds globally posted the worst month
since 2008, by placing more bearish than bullish bets.  
 COLUMNS  
 1. I Pledge to Write Funnier Columns on Goldman: Michael Lewis  
 June 9 (Bloomberg) -- A few weeks ago Bloomberg News
reported that, in just the past year, hundreds of students at
the Harvard Business School have taken something called the
M.B.A. Oath.  
 2. BP Needs to Tell Off Whining Americans: Matthew Lynn  
 June 8 (Bloomberg) -- Ever since oil started gushing from
its well in the Gulf of Mexico, the British energy company BP
Plc has responded precisely the way you’d expect from a massive
corporation caught up in a terrible mess.  
 3. Too Hot Banker No Match for Sex-Suit Pioneers: Susan Antilla  
 June 8 (Bloomberg) -- The shame of the Debrahlee “They
Fired Me Because I Was Too Hot” Lorenzana story is that it is
the rare Wall Street gender discrimination case that gets the
public’s attention. Yet Lorenzana is making negligible efforts
to exploit it on anyone’s behalf except her own.  
 4. Former Model Gives Economic Change New Meaning: William Pesek  
 June 10 (Bloomberg) -- Japan’s mighty bureaucrats are up
against an unlikely foe: a model-turned-fiscal-firebrand.  
 5. IPhone 4 Makes Video Call, How About Voice?: Rich Jaroslovsky  
 June 8 (Bloomberg) -- For better or worse, the announcement
of a new Apple Inc. gadget has passed into the realm of cultural
phenomena: the rumors, the air of expectation, the
controversies. A century ago, the equivalent might have been the
premiere of “The Rite of Spring,” with Stravinsky in the Steve
Jobs role. Not counting the opening-night riot, of course.  
 MULTIMEDIA  
 1. Soros Says ‘We Have Just Entered Act Two’ of Crisis  
 June 10 (Bloomberg) -- Billionaire investor George Soros
comments on Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, the risks of a
double-dip recession in the global economy and challenges facing
financial market regulators.  
 2. Apple’s Jobs Unveils $199 IPhone 4 to Fend Off Rivals  
 June 8 (Bloomberg) -- Steve Jobs, chief executive officer
of Apple Inc., introduced the new IPhone at the company’s
Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco yesterday.  
 3. Trichet Says ECB to Keep Buying Bonds to Fight Crisis  
 June 10 (Bloomberg) -- European Central Bank President
Jean-Claude Trichet speaks about today’s decision to leave the
benchmark rate at a record low of 1 percent and the bank’s bond
purchase program.  
 4. Loews’s Tisch Sees Improvement in Hotel Industry  
 June 10 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Tisch, co-chairman of Loews
Corp., talks with Bloomberg’s Betty Liu about trends in the
hotel industry.  
 Tisch also discusses his interview with Saks Inc. Chief
Executive Stephen Sadove on “Beyond The Boardroom,” which airs
Fridays on Bloomberg Television.  
 5. Mobius Sees Opportunities in Hungary, No ‘Double Dip’  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Audrey Barker  in New York at 
 Abarker3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        