-- Pimco's Bill Gross Tells Barron's Spending Cuts Will Curb Worldwide Growth
-- Dan Hart
-- 2010-06-13T18:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/pimco-s-bill-gross-tells-barron-s-spending-cuts-will-curb-worldwide-growth.html

          
          
             Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest mutual fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
investors should expect less growth globally as companies and
governments cut spending, Barron’s reported.  
 “We see similar gains of 4 percent to 5 percent this year
in stocks, high-yield bonds, commercial real estate and other
risk assets,” Gross said in a “Roundtable” interview with
money managers in the June 14 edition. “There is no asset that
glistens, promising double-digit returns.”  
 Gross said he likes “high-quality” sovereign bonds in the
U.S. and Germany, which represent decent value and assure
investors they’ll be paid. He also likes GMAC SmartNotes, which
yield about 8 percent to 9 percent for 2-year to 10-year notes,
he said.  
 Abby Joseph Cohen , senior investment strategist for  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. , likes  U.S. Steel Corp. , Barron’s said. She
cited U.S. automotive and industrial-equipment demand for steel.  
 She also said  Pfizer Inc.  isn’t getting enough credit for
its product pipeline, including a new drug called tanezumab that
may become an “important” arthritis drug.  
 Investor  Marc Faber  expects U.S. markets to end
“moderately” lower for the year as economic data and corporate
profits disappoint in the second half, Barron’s said.  
 S&P 500 Seen Lower  
 He forecasts the Standard & Poor’s 500 may drop to about
950, as U.S. economic growth could slow and China may slow as
well, Barron’s said. He recommended shorting the Australian
dollar to take advantage of a slowdown in China’s economy, which
would crimp industrial commodity demand, Barron’s said.  
 Scott Black , president of Delphi Management Inc.,
recommended  America’s Car-Mart Inc. , which may benefit from
slowing U.S. economic growth as the auto retailer sells to
customers who don’t have credit.  
 He also likes  Novellus Systems Inc. , which should benefit
from continued U.S. and Asian demand for computers and
semiconductors.  
 Mario Gabelli , chief executive officer of Gamco Investors
Inc., cautioned investors about a potential economic slowdown in
China, the end of monetary stimulus by the Federal Reserve, the
debt crisis in Europe and fiscal policy from President  Barack Obama , Barron’s said.  
 Gabelli favors  Sara Lee Corp.  because it will gain from
its single-serve coffee business, which is growing about
20 percent annually, Barron’s said. Following a sale of some
assets in Europe, the company will have about $500 million of
cash and no debt, the weekly newspaper said.  
 Las Vegas Sands Corp.  is another Gabelli recommendation, as
he says the company is expected to generate as much as
$1 billion in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization during the next 12 months from its new Singapore
casino, Barron’s reported.  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        