-- Qatar Wealth Funds to Be Property Investment `Powerhouse', Jones Lang Says
-- Camilla Hall
-- 2010-06-13T09:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/qatar-wealth-funds-to-be-powerhouse-of-property-investment-lasalle-says.html

          
          
             Wealth funds of gas-rich Qatar are
likely to make further global real estate investments as prices
in countries such as Germany decline, Jones Lang LaSalle said in
a report today.  
 The funds “are likely to be emerging as the new powerhouse
in terms of global real estate capital flows in 2010,”  Fadi Moussalli , regional director at Jones Lang LaSalle MENA said in
the e-mailed report.  
 “Cash-rich and with a strong appetite for splashy overseas
assets, Qatari vehicles have lately outshined their counterparts
from the region and are projected to carry on with their rapid
expansion across the real estate world,” Moussalli said.  
 The International Monetary Fund expects the Qatari economy
to grow 18.5 percent this year, far above estimates for the rest
of the Gulf Arab region. Harrods Ltd., owner of the London
luxury department store, was sold to Qatar Holding LLC by
 Mohamed Al-Fayed  last month. The price was 1.5 billion pounds
($2.2 billion), said two people familiar with the transaction.  
 Qatar is the largest shareholder in Songbird Estates Plc,
which controls more than half the buildings in the Canary Wharf
estate in London, J Sainsbury Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest
supermarket owner, and Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s third-largest
bank by assets. It’s also the second-largest shareholder in
London Stock Exchange Group Plc and has a stake in Volkswagen
AG, the German automaker.  
 “Their ability to compete in this market will be increased
by the decline in investment from German open ended funds, which
were among the major global investors in 2009,” Moussalli said.
The German funds are likely to make fewer acquisitions
government relations tighter, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        