-- Treasury Yields Stay Near a 10-Day High as Economy Weathers Debt Crisis
-- Keith Jenkins
-- 2010-06-15T11:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/treasuries-fall-as-signs-of-global-recovery-sap-demand-for-government-debt.html

          
          
             Treasuries declined, pushing 10-year
yields near the highest in 10 days, amid speculation the global
economy will weather Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, curbing
demand for the safety of U.S. securities.  
 Thirty-, 10- and two-year securities erased earlier gains
before reports this week that are forecast to show manufacturing
in the New York region grew and U.S. industrial production rose.
The  notes  climbed earlier after Greece’s debt rating was lowered
four steps to Ba1 from A3 yesterday by Moody’s Investors
Service.  
 “Treasuries are struggling to make much headway despite
the Greek downgrade,” said  Orlando Green , an interest-rates
strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
London. “The market seems to be positive about the general
outlook for the U.S. economy and that’s what holding Treasuries
back at the moment.”  
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year note climbed three basis
points to 3.29 percent at 6:13 a.m. in New York, according to
BGCantor Market Data, within three basis points of the highest
since June 4. The 3.5 percent security due in May 2020 fell
8/32, or $2.50 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 21/32.  
 While concern countries such as Greece may default helped
send the 10-year yield to 3.06 percent on May 25, signs the
global economy is recovering have pushed it higher in the past
three weeks. Output in the euro-region economy rose 0.8 percent
from March, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said yesterday. Economists had projected a gain of 0.5 percent.  
 Leading Indicator  
 A leading indicator for the Chinese economy, the world’s
third biggest, rose “sharply” in April on a jump in new
construction work, the Conference Board said. The measure gained
1.7 percent to 147.1, compared with a revised 1.2 percent
increase in March, the New York-based research organization said
on its website today.  
 The MSCI  World Index  of shares advanced for a sixth
straight day.  
 The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s  general economic
index  rose to 20.0 in June from 19.11 in the previous month,
according to the median forecast of 55 economists in a Bloomberg
survey ahead of the data’s release today. Production at
factories, mines and utilities increased 0.9 percent in May,
according to a separate survey before the Fed releases the
figures tomorrow.  
 Treasuries advanced earlier after Moody’s lowered Greece’s
debt rating to ‘junk.’ Moody’s cited “substantial” risks to
economic growth from the austerity measures tied to a 110
billion-euro ($134.5 billion) aid package from the European
Union and the International Monetary Fund.  
 Greek Spending  
 Greece has cut spending, raised taxes and trimmed wages to
tackle its budget deficit, which swelled to 13.6 percent of
gross domestic product last year, more than four times the EU
limit. To secure the EU-IMF aid, the government pledged to trim
the shortfall to 8.1 percent of GDP this year and bring it back
under the 3 percent EU ceiling in 2014.  
 Treasuries have returned 4.4 percent since the start of
this year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bunds, the euro-area’s benchmark securities, have returned 6.7
percent, while Greek bonds declined 11 percent, the indexes
showed.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        