-- Romanians Pine for Ceausescu's `Old Order' as Premier Pushes Budget Cuts
-- Irina Savu
-- 2010-06-14T13:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/romanians-pine-for-ceausescu-s-old-order-as-premier-pushes-budget-cuts.html

          
          
             Georgeta Simionescu joined hundreds
of nurses, clerks and doctors waving banners in Bucharest last
week outside the gargantuan palace built by former Romanian
dictator  Nicolae Ceausescu , and pined for the “old order.”  
 Ceausescu, who ruled the former communist country before he
was shot in the 1989 revolution that brought democracy, stood
for “order and stability,” said the 67-year-old Simionescu in
front of the building that is now home to the country’s
lawmakers. “He would protect us.”  
 Prime Minister  Emil Boc  faces a no-confidence motion in
parliament tomorrow over budget-cutting measures, which include
reducing public wages by 25 percent and pensions and jobless
benefits by 15 percent to avoid Romania becoming the next
Greece. Romania is joining governments from Spain to Germany in
slashing spending and the EU has crafted a 750 billion-euro
($905 billion) rescue package to save the euro.  
 Boc, 43, is caught between placating voters and reassuring
the International Monetary Fund and investors, who have poured
22.4 billion euros into Romania since it joined the EU.
Investors are wary about his resolve to reduce the deficit,
while economists have also raised concern the measures will
erode the economic recovery in the country, the EU’s second-
poorest after Bulgaria.  
 Credit-default swaps are the second-highest in the EU,
behind Greece, and the Romanian leu has fallen to the lowest
level this year as the Greek debt crisis roiled the Balkan
region. Credit-default swaps linked to five-year bonds rose to
407 basis points on June 8, when Parliament scheduled the vote,
according to CMA DataVision prices. The cost of insuring against
default on the country’s debt is now the highest since July 13.  
 ‘Ongoing Uncertainty’  
 “The ongoing uncertainty regarding the passage of the
relevant legislation in particular and the upcoming no-
confidence vote are among the key factors behind the recent
deterioration in Romania’s relative performance in credit
markets,” said Citigroup Inc. economists  Ilker Domac  and Engin
Dalgic in a June 10 note to clients.  
 Romania failed to sell debt on June 7 for the fourth time
since the beginning of May. The Finance Ministry rejected all
bids for 1.2 billion lei ($343 million) in one-year bills and
600 million lei in three-year bonds it planned to sell at the
previous auction on June 3. Five-year notes sold on March 11 to
yield 5.17 percent are now trading at a yield of 6.34 percent,
according to prices on Bloomberg.  
 “The government’s credibility or the probability to
actually see the measures implemented is pretty low as far as
the markets are concerned,“ ING Bank Romania Chief Economist
 Nicolaie Alexandru-Chidesciuc  said.  
 Weakening Currency  
 The  leu  lost about 2 percent against the euro in the past
month. It will probably fall about 3 percent by June 2011 to
4.35 per euro because of concern over the government’s spending
reduction plans, ING’s Chidesciuc said on June 7. He had
previously predicted the leu to rise.  
 Romania today sold only 343 million lei of six-month
Treasury bills on demand of 1.56 billion lei, according to data
from the National Bank of Romania.  
 The leu was trading at 4.2265 per euro at 4:10 p.m. in
Bucharest, 0.1 percent stronger from the close on June 11.  
 Opposition Votes  
 Romania’s largest opposition party, the  Social Democrats ,
needs 236 votes to topple Boc, while the premier can count on
257 votes. State worker unions are staging daily protests in
front of the parliament as well as city halls across the country
to urge lawmakers to vote against the government. They plan a
human chain around the parliament building to block its entrance
when the vote takes place.  
 Boc’s plan to cut wages and pensions to meet an IMF-
required budget deficit of 6.8 percent of gross domestic product
may push the recovery back a year, according to ING Groep NV,
BNP Paribas SA and Morgan Stanley.  
 Romania’s economy will continue to “underperform” its
neighbors for the rest of the year as the government tightens
spending, BNP Paribas analysts wrote in a note on June 3. The
economy will be pinched this year, after shrinking a record 7.1
percent in 2009, London-based Morgan Stanley economist  Pasquale Diana  said on June 2.  
 Romania’s economic contraction slowed to an annual 2.6
percent in the first quarter from 6.5 percent in the previous
quarter as industry and export growth partly offset plunging
construction and consumption. The government and the IMF predict
the economy will contract as much as 0.5 percent this year and
return to growth in 2011.  
 Madalina Ionescu, a 51-year-old nurse, makes 1,700 lei
($488) a month, after 30 years of service. That’s below the
average wage of $566, which in turn is less than half the
average pay in the Czech Republic and Poland, two eastern
European nations that dropped communism for free-market
economies in the same year as Romania.  
 “This government is no longer doing what it’s supposed to
be doing, to protect its citizens,” said Ionescu.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        