-- SanDisk, Symantec Workers Lead Silicon Valley in Profit Gains
-- Ryan Flinn
-- 2010-06-14T20:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/sandisk-symantec-lead-silicon-valley-in-increasing-profit-per-employee.html

          
          
             SanDisk Corp.  and  Symantec Corp.  are
leading their Silicon Valley peers in boosting profit per
employee, as technology workers learn to do more with less.  
 SanDisk  earned $684,381 more from each worker last year
than the prior year, while Symantec added $430,453, according to
Bloomberg data measuring the most recent fiscal year.  
 About half of the companies in a Bloomberg regional index
had more profitable workforces last year, helped by job cuts and
the start of the economic recovery. Silicon Valley lost about
90,000 jobs during the worst of the slump. The remaining workers
had to take on more of the burden, propelling productivity to
its highest level since the dot-com boom in 2000.  
 “You can get your people to work harder for an extended
period of time, but the question is, is that sustainable?” said
Tracey Grose, vice president of research and development for
 Collaborative Economics Inc. , a Mountain View, California-based
consulting firm.  
 Productivity rose 3.8 percent between the second quarters
of 2008 and 2009, according to an annual survey by Joint
Venture: Silicon Valley Network and Silicon Valley Community
Foundation. As companies begin to see orders rebound, they
eventually have to bring workers back.  
 “When companies start turning around, they will take on
temporary help, and then they’ll start hiring full-time
positions,” Grose said.  
 Job Cuts  
 SanDisk , a maker of Flash memory based in Milpitas, cut at
least 10 percent of its workforce in late 2008, part of an
effort to reduce operating expenses to $800 million or less.  
 Like the housing market, the flash-memory industry had a
supply glut. That caused prices to crash, forcing companies to
take a loss on every component that went out the door.  
 “These guys were losing probably close to one dollar a
part at the end of 2008,” said  Joe Unsworth , an analyst at
Stamford, Connecticut-based Gartner Inc. “They were absolutely
hemorrhaging cash.”  
 Prices recovered after the industry cut capacity and worked
through the excess inventory, he said. SanDisk has been
profitable since the second quarter of 2009. On an employee
basis, the company earned $127,123 last year, up from a loss of
$557,258 in 2008.  
 Symantec, the world’s biggest maker of computer-security
software, also cut jobs during the recession, reducing its
workforce budget by 4.5 percent at the end of 2008.  
 Consumer Rebound  
 At the time, corporate customers were curbing security
spending. Sales at Mountain View-based Symantec tumbled for four
straight quarters, through September of last year.  
 Customers bought consumer products at a faster pace than
business software, helping Symantec pull out the slump, said
Chief Financial Officer  James Beer . Per worker, net income was
$41,035 last year, compared with a loss of $389,418 the previous
year.  
 SanDisk rose $2.74, or 6.1 percent, to $47.34 at in Nasdaq
Stock Market  trading  today. Symantec fell 24 cents to $14.43.  
 Google Inc. , EBay Inc. and Yahoo! Inc. also boosted per-
employee profit last year. Google employees had some of the
region’s highest numbers, accounting for $328,734 on average.
Oracle Corp., at $65,035, and  Hewlett-Packard Co. , at $25,197,
were both little changed from the prior year.  
 Thirty-five companies in Bloomberg’s index of 78 Bay Area
stocks saw profitability per employee drop last year. And 20
lost money -- often because of writedowns and reorganizations.
 Lam Research Corp.  and  JDS Uniphase Corp.  ranked at the bottom
of the list.  
 Wider Loss  
 At JDSU, a Milpitas-based maker of fiber-optic equipment
and other networking technology, the loss per worker widened to
$216,600, from $3,056 the previous year. It was hurt by one-time
charges, including the writedown of an acquisition. The timing
of its fiscal year didn’t help because it ended last June,
before the economic recovery got under way.  
 “Customers were cautious on spending on telecom
equipment,” said Jim Monroe, a spokesman for JDS. Things have
improved since last year, he said. Bookings last quarter reached
the highest level in two years.  
 Lam was hurt when memory producers -- such as SanDisk --
scaled back production plans during the slowdown, said  Carol Raeburn , a spokeswoman for the Fremont company.  
 Acquisition Costs  
 During the fiscal year that ended last June,  Lam  had a loss
of $111,453 per worker, down from a profit of $115,618. The
company completed its purchase of SEZ Holding AG in March 2008,
not long before the recession deepened. The company had to write
down the value of the business, eating into profit. Lam also cut
jobs as it integrated SEZ.  
 “The biggest reason for the loss was a restructuring,”
Raeburn said.  
 The memory business has since rebounded, helping Lam post
record shipments last quarter. Sales of smartphones, netbooks
and tablet computers such as  Apple Inc. ’s iPad have helped.  
 “It’s the whole consumer electronics category that’s
driving this demand,” Raeburn said. “It just shows you how
fast things can change from the doldrums.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     SanDisk cut at least 10 percent of its workforce in late 2008, part of an effort to reduce operating expenses to $800 million or less. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
