-- Saudi Arabia Says Airspace Off Limits for Israeli Raid on Iran Facilities
-- Glen Carey
-- 2010-06-13T07:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/saudi-arabia-says-airspace-off-limits-for-israeli-raid-on-iran-facilities.html

          
          
             Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest
oil exporter and a close U.S. ally, denied reports that it had
agreed to allow Israel to use its airspace to raid Iran’s
nuclear facilities.  
 Saudi Arabia rejects “the violation of its sovereignty and
the use of its airspace or territory by anyone to attack any
country,” the official  Saudi Press Agency  said late yesterday,
citing an unidentified official at the Foreign Affairs Ministry.
“It is more appropriate that Saudi Arabia should apply this
policy to the authority of the Israeli occupation with which it
has no relationship in any way.”  
 The Times  reported yesterday that Saudi Arabia agreed to
allow Israel to use its airspace to make bombing raids on Iran’s
nuclear facilities. The newspaper cited unidentified people.
Saudi Arabia would ensure that the bombers pass through an area
in the north of the country without its missile defense systems
being activated, the newspaper said.  
 Saudi Arabia, a Sunni Muslim state, wants a peaceful
resolution to Iran’s nuclear standoff with the West and has
questioned the effectiveness of tighter sanctions. Shiite Muslim
Iran is the main regional rival of Saudi Arabia, the largest
Arab economy.  
 Saudi Arabia has no political and economic ties with
Israel. It championed an Arab-Israeli peace initiative, which
was adopted by fellow Arab countries in 2003, offering normal
tied with Israel if it returned occupied Arab land.  
 Saudi Arabia won’t engage Israel until it ends the
occupation of Arab territories, Prince Turki bin Faisal bin
Abdulaziz, the former envoy to the U.S. and a member of the
Saudi royal family, said in September 2009.  
 “The kingdom of Saudi Arabia followed some British media’s
allegations based on slander and false accusation that it will
allow Israel to launch an attack on Iran through its
territory,” the Saudi Press Agency reported the foreign
ministry official as saying.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        