-- Slovak Opposition Parties Win Majority, Seek Coalition to Freeze Out Fico
-- Peter Laca
-- 2010-06-13T12:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/slovak-opposition-parties-win-majority-seek-coalition-to-freeze-out-fico.html

          
          
             Four Slovak parties committed to
spending cuts to avoid a Greek-style debt crisis said they would
try to form a government after winning a majority in elections.  
 The SDKU, Freedom and Solidarity, Christian Democrats and
Most-Hid won 79 of 150 seats in parliament and said they would
hold initial coalition talks today. Premier  Robert Fico’s  Smer
party, which campaigned on keeping the welfare state intact,
took the most votes in the balloting, though it appeared to have
few options as the four opposition parties said they were
sticking to pre-election pledges to not join forces with Fico.  
 The next government will inherit a widening deficit and a
plan to issue a record amount of  debt  as the Europe struggles to
contain a sovereign-debt crisis. Slovakia’s shortfall may swell
to 7.4 percent of gross domestic product this year, compared
with a target of 5.5 percent, unless the new government takes
“significant” steps, according to a survey of economists by
the Club of Economic Analysts.  
 “Slovakia has chosen the path of responsibility to help
solve its problems,”  Iveta Radicova , SDKU leader told
reporters. “We will turn Slovakia into Europe’s tiger again,”
Radicova, who is likely to become the country’s first female
prime minister, said, referring to a nickname the country earned
last decade when it’s economy was the fastest growing in the
region.  
 President Decides  
 President  Ivan Gasparovic , who has the sole right to
appoint a prime minister and a government, said he “wants to
ask the party with the most seats to form a government because
it deserves to have such a possibility,” though he also wants a
guarantee of a majority and will decide “depending on the
situation.”  
 Smer took 34.8 percent of the votes for 62 seats in the
legislature, which Fico said entitled it to try and form a
coalition, though his party would step aside and be a “tough
and critical” opposition if it can’t get a majority. The SDKU
came second with 15.4 percent, followed by Freedom and
Solidarity with 12.1 percent, KDH with 8.5 percent, and Most-Hid
with 8.1 percent. Turnout was 59 percent, up from 55 percent in
the 2006 elections.  
 “Smer is basically isolated, I doubt any party will be
lured into a coalition with it,” said  Grigori Meseznikov , the
head of the Institute for Public Affairs in Bratislava.  
 Debt Fears  
 Slovakia’s economy contracted 4.7 percent last year as the
country entered its first-ever recession and investment, which
powered record growth of 10.6 percent in 2007, dried up because
of the global financial crisis. Plans to sell as much as 8
billion euros ($9.6 billion) of debt in 2010 after the fiscal
deficit jumped raised fears that the country, which adopted the
euro in 2009, may slide toward a Greek-style debt crisis.  
 The government’s popularity began to slip this year as
 unemployment  rose to a five-year high of 12.97 percent and
citizens became concerned about corruption as Slovakia fell to
56th among 180 countries in the 2009 corruption perceptions
index compiled by Berlin-based Transparency International. The
country ranked 49th when the 45-year-old Fico took power in
2006.  
 The SDKU will look to copy the success of the coalition
government it led from 1998 to 2006. That administration
introduced a unified tax rate for companies and individuals,
sold state assets, and restructured social spending, attracting
major investments from companies such as Volkswagen AG and Kia
Motors Corp.  
 Market Reaction  
 “There will be probably a coalition that will be more
favorable for sustainable fiscal consolidation, so the market
may appreciate this,” said  Jaromir Sindel , an economist at
Citibank AS in Prague.  
 With two parties supported mainly by the country’s 540,000
ethnic-Hungarians, about 10 percent of the population, the four-
member coalition will also look to repair ties with neighbor and
fellow European Union member Hungary.  
 Fico attacked the new Hungarian government’s decision to
offer citizenship to ethnic Hungarians outside the country,
saying in an interview published on June 4 by Paris-based Le
Figaro that it’s “exporting its brown plague,” a reference to
Nazi collaborators who ruled the country during World War II.
Anyone who applies for a Hungarian passport should be stripped
of their Slovak citizenship, he said.  
 The nationalist tone of Fico and the Slovak Nationalist
Party, one of his governing partners which had 5.1 percent of
the vote, put many voters off, Meseznikov said, and allowed new
parties such as 14-month-old Freedom and Solidarity and the
Most-Hid party to gain strength.  
 Freedom and Solidarity also used the Internet to lure the
first generation of voters born after the fall of communism with
pledges to simplify the welfare system, cut spending and
withhold aid for debt-ridden Greece.  
 HZDS, the third ruling member led by former Prime Minister
 Vladimir Meciar , failed to break the minimum five percent
threshold needed to gain entrance to parliament.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
 Radoslav Tomek  in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        