-- Slovak Bonds May Rise as Deficit-Cutting Parties Seek to Form Government
-- Radoslav Tomek
-- 2010-06-13T23:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/slovak-bonds-may-rise-as-deficit-cutting-parties-seek-to-form-government.html

          
          
             Slovak assets may rise as parties
that pledge to cut the  budget deficit  and attract foreign
investment hold a second day of coalition talks today after
taking a majority of seats in weekend parliamentary elections.  
 SDKU, Freedom and Solidarity, the Christian Democrats and
Most-Hid seek to form a government with 79 seats in the 150-
member legislature. While Premier  Robert Fico ’s Smer won the
most votes, opposition politicians say they won’t work with a
party that failed to control spending and pursued nationalist
policies.  
 “The coalition that is emerging will be more favorable for
sustainable fiscal consolidation, so the markets may appreciate
this,” said  Jaromir Sindel , an economist at Citibank AS in
Prague. “The situation may calm now, and there may be a
positive reaction.”  
 Slovakia, a euro-member nation, will see its budget deficit
swell to 7.4 percent of  gross domestic product  this year
compared with a target of 5.5 percent, unless the new government
takes “significant” steps to reduce the shortfall, according
to a survey of economists by the Club of Economic Analysts in
Bratislava, the nation’s capital. Fico had promised not to raise
taxes and keep the welfare state intact.  
 Fico Chance  
 While President  Ivan Gasparovic , who will appoint the next
premier, said yesterday the party that won the most seats
“deserves” the chance to form a government, he also said he
wanted to guarantee a majority administration. Fico said he may
try to form a government, though he will step aside if he can’t
get a majority.  
 SDKU, which finished second in the election with 15.4
percent of the vote, has called for a constitutional law to
prevent state debt from rising above a certain level. The party
ruled together with the Christian Democrats before Fico took
power in 2006 and introduced a 19 percent flat-tax that helped
attract investment from companies such as KIA Motors Corp.  
 The two other parties in the proposed coalition were
created in 2009 and pledged to keep Slovakia from sliding into a
Greek-style debt crisis.  
 The Slovak economy is emerging from recession, with the
Finance Ministry forecasting economic growth will reach 3.2
percent this year after a 4.7 percent contraction in 2009. The
revival is being driven by exports, such as cars made locally by
Kia and Volkswagen AG.  
 Room For Investment  
 “There is quite a lot of room for non-residents to invest
into Slovak securities,” said  Juraj Kotian , an economist at
Erste Bank AG in Vienna. “Slovakia will offer a unique
combination of having the euro and fast economic growth. It
should be one of the most attractive countries for investors in
the region.”  
 Slovakia plans to sell as much as 8 billion euros ($9.65
billion) of debt this year, the most since at least 2004.
Slovakia is rated A+ by Standard & Poor’s, the agency’s fifth
highest grade and on par with Italy. Moody’s Investors Service
rates it A1, also the fifth-best assessment.  
 The benchmark 4 percent Treasury bond maturing in 2020
yielded 3.887 percent on June 11, 142.5 basis points more than
German debt with a similar maturity. The spread on a similar
security issued by Slovenia, which adopted the euro in 2007, was
134.2 basis points. A basis point is one-hundredth of a
percentage point.  
 Popularity Slips  
 The popularity of Fico’s government began to slip this year
as unemployment rose to a five-year high of almost 13 percent,
and debt swelled. The European Commission estimates Slovakia’s
debt will increase to 44 percent of GDP in 2011 from 35.7
percent last year.  
 Some voters were put off by perceptions of rising
corruption and Fico’s confrontational style, said  Grigori Meseznikov , head of the Institute for Public Affairs in
Bratislava. Slovakia fell to 56th among 180 countries in the
2009 corruption perceptions index compiled by Berlin-based
Transparency International. The country ranked 49th when Fico
took power in 2006.  
 Companies that once clamored to invest in Slovakia because
of its cheap labor force and location linking the  European Union 
with markets further east have cooled on the country.  
 Fico raised the minimum wage and criticized utilities
controlled by Rome-based Enel SpA and Dusseldorf-based E.ON
Ruhrgas AG for overcharging citizens. Foreign direct investment
fell to almost zero in 2009 from 3.7 billion euros in 2006,
according to the Vienna Institute for International Economic
Studies.  
 Agenda Unaffordable  
 Business-friendly measures such as restoring independent
regulation will fuel investment, said  Marian Jusko , chairman of
the Employers’ Union and a former central bank governor.  
 “Fico’s government pushed a social agenda when the economy
couldn’t afford it,” said Jusko, whose group represents some
1,300 businesses including a factory owned by Pittsburgh-based
U.S. Steel Corp. “We expect the new government will take
measures to improve the business environment.”  
 The strong performance of Smer in the weekend vote means
Fico is likely to keep a new administration from carrying out
more radical fiscal measures, Citibank’s Sindel said.  
 “Fico will be a tough opposition and the governing parties
will be aware of the political consequences if their measures
are too tough, or too unpopular,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
 Radoslav Tomek  in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        