-- Oudea's Challenge to Make SocGen Investors `Forget Kerviel,' Toxic Assets
-- Fabio Benedetti-Valentini
-- 2010-06-13T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/socgen-chief-oudea-needs-to-make-investors-forget-kerviel-toxic-assets.html

          
          
             Societe Generale SA  Chief Executive
Officer  Frederic Oudea , who took over two years ago after a
record trading loss shook the bank, has reported earnings that
disappointed investors in two of the past four quarters.  
 When he lays outs out his strategy tomorrow in Paris, he
must persuade investors there are no more shocks in store, even
as concerns over sovereign debt rock markets and  Jerome Kerviel ,
the 33-year-old former employee Societe Generale blames for the
trading loss, stands trial.  
 “The goal will be to make people forget Kerviel and toxic
assets,” said  Benoit de Broissia , who helps manage $2 billion
at KBL Richelieu Gestion in Paris. “It’s going to be more
defensive than offensive. It’s key to reassure investors as the
crisis doesn’t seem to be over.”  
 Oudea until now has cut risks and reinforced controls to
boost earnings at the investment-banking  unit , the biggest
division by profit. While Societe Generale expects net income to
rebound this year as it cuts losses from 37 billion euros ($44.9
billion) of risky assets, the company may seek partnerships to
help maintain its independence, the CEO said last month.  
 A spokeswoman at Societe Generale in Paris declined to
comment on the agenda of the investors’ presentation.  
 Oudea’s first move last year was to create an asset-
management joint venture with  Credit Agricole SA  where its
French rival has a majority stake. In Russia, Societe Generale
reached an agreement in February with billionaire  Vladimir Potanin ’s Interros Holding Co. to combine its unprofitable OAO
Rosbank unit and other divisions in the country in a bid to
reduce consumer-banking losses there.  
 Executive Moves  
 Oudea, 46, completed a top management shuffle with the
September nomination of  Bernardo Sanchez Incera , formerly head
of French supermarket chain Monoprix, as deputy chief executive
officer overseeing international consumer banking. Sanchez
Incera is a deputy CEO alongside  Jean-Francois Sammarcelli , head
of French retail banking, and  Severin Cabannes .  
 Societe Generale caught investors off guard twice in the
past four quarters by saying before a planned earnings
announcement that it would have only a “slight” profit. Last
month, it posted 1.06 billion euros in first-quarter net income,
beating analysts’ estimates, on a rebound at its corporate-and
investment-banking unit.  
 The bank reiterated on May 5 that it expects full-year
 profit  of 3 billion euros. Societe Generale has also said that
it may still have between 700 million euros and 1 billion euros
in writedowns and provisions linked to risky assets this year,
down from 4.2 billion euros in 2009.  
 Toxic Assets  
 “We see a high chance of negative surprises this year,”
 Jaap Meijer , a London-based analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd.
who has a “sell” rating on the stock, wrote in a June 10 note.
There is a “significant chance” that losses from the toxic
assets will exceed Societe Generale’s estimate, he said.  
 The corporate- and investment-banking unit’s profit totaled
541 million euros in the first quarter, compared with a 171
million-euro loss a year earlier, the bank said May 5. Revenue
at the division, led by  Michel Peretie , rose 74 percent to 2.14
billion euros in the first quarter. The bank has said that it
expects the unit will have about 2 billion euros of quarterly
revenue this year.  
 Societe Generale, which has about 3 billion euros at risk
from Greek government debt, isn’t expecting any “bad
surprises” in the second quarter, Peretie told reporters on
June 9 during a conference in Vienna.  
 “We have been very cautious in managing our risk and
exposure very tightly,” he said, calling speculation about
derivatives losses “totally unfounded.”  
 Derivative Speculation  
 Societe Generale  shares  fell 7.6 percent on June 4 on
speculation the bank would record derivatives losses and that
the sovereign-debt crisis may spread to central and eastern
European countries.  
 “When there is a problem in the markets, people say ‘Ah
derivatives, it must be SocGen,’” said  Simon Maughan , a London-
based analyst at MF Global Securities Ltd. which has a “buy”
rating on the stock. “They absolutely need to get rid of the
tag of a bank exposed to outsized losses.”  
 Investors are showing that Oudea has work to do to restore
confidence in the bank’s strategy. Societe Generale shares have
fallen 31 percent in 2010, more than the 11 percent decline of
the  52-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index .  
 “From where the shares are today you could easily gain 30
percent over the next months,” Maughan said. “He has to show a
commitment that he’s stabilizing the ship.”  
 Kerviel went on trial June 8 for abuse of trust, faking
documents and computer hacking. He faces as many as five years
in jail and 375,000 euros in fines if found guilty.  
 Kerviel said when the trial opened June 8 that he “hid
nothing” from the bank when taking positions in European stock
market index futures.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabio Benedetti-Valentini  in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Societe Generale CEO Frederic Oudea. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jerome Kerviel, a former trader for Societe Generale  
                       
                         
                           Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Jerome Kerviel, a former trader for Societe Generale, arrives at the court house in Paris. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Jerome Kerviel, a former trader for Societe Generale, arrives at the court house in Paris. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
