-- Korea Will Curb Banks' Currency Derivatives to Reduce Volatility of Won
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-06-13T23:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/south-korea-tightens-currency-derivatives-rules-to-reduce-won-volatility.html

          
          
             South Korea aims to prevent a
financial crisis by tightening rules on currency derivatives to
reduce  volatility  in capital flows and trading of the won.  
 Foreign and domestic banks face lower limits on their
holdings of exchange derivatives under rules recommended
yesterday to President  Lee Myung Bak ’s regulatory reform
committee, the government and central bank said in a joint
statement.  
 South Korea joins developing nations including Taiwan,
Brazil, Colombia and Russia that are tightening rules on capital
flows to limit swings in their currencies. The won has slumped
9.6 percent against the dollar since April 1, more than double
the decline in any of Asia’s other 10 most-used currencies.  
 Foreign banks will be required to cut currency derivatives
holdings to 250 percent of equity capital and domestic banks to
50 percent, with three months to meet the new ceiling and two
years to cover existing positions. The limit on derivatives to
cover corporate settlements will be cut to 100 percent of the
total, from 125 percent.  
 “We are not limiting portfolio investment,” said Kim Yi
Tae, director at the finance ministry’s foreign exchange market
division. “We’re not putting regulations on trade financing,
only on bank lending in foreign currencies and on forwards.”  
 South Korean won futures due in September traded at
1,248.30 per dollar. The currency slumped 3.6 percent to
1,246.10 to the dollar last week as government officials flagged
the currency regulations. The government is concerned excessive
investment in won forwards has caused volatility and increased
short-term debt at the nation’s banks, said  Frances Cheung , a
senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong.  
 Averting Risk  
 The new rules are to reduce systemic risks, which should
serve as a safety net to avert a crisis, the government and
central bank said in yesterday’s statement.  
 “It’s not the government’s intention to increase market
volatility,” said  Matthew Huang , a Singapore-based fixed-income
strategist at Barclays Plc. “We await further details that may
help facilitate a smooth transition.”  
 Vice Finance Minister  Yim Jong Yong  said at a briefing the
government will review the ceilings every quarter to reflect
changing economic and market conditions and the impact on
business activity.  
 The government aims to curtail won “volatility and avert a
financial crisis,” Yim said last week in an interview. The
changes will respect the principles of an open economy and
aren’t intended to deter foreign investment, he said.  
 Impact ‘Limited’  
 “We expect the impact of the package on bonds, swaps and
the Korean won to be limited,”  Goohoon Kwon , a Seoul-based
executive director for Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in a
report published yesterday. “Positions exceeding the limits,
estimated at $18.7 billion by authorities, are not large
compared to the daily turnover in the onshore markets and could
be reduced gradually over the two-year horizon.”  
 Forwards are agreements in which assets are bought and sold
at current prices for future delivery. Banks often borrow
foreign currencies to offset exposure to price swings on the
contracts.  
 South Korea is acting after it hosted the Group of 20
nations meeting in Busan on June 4, where countries said they
will try to agree on new rules for capital flows by December
2012 to avoid a repeat of the global financial crisis. In
January, Taiwan set a one-week deadline for money brought into
the country to be invested or repatriated and in April it
ordered a review of loans to flush out speculators.  
 Won Direction  
 Korean authorities stressed the policy isn’t aimed at
setting a direction for the won, and they will take proper
actions should the measures prompt herd behavior and shake the
won. They pledged to supply foreign exchange should liquidity
conditions suddenly worsen.  
 Domestic banks will need to raise the ratio of mid- to
long-term financing in foreign loan portfolios to 100 percent
from 90 percent. Foreign banks will be asked to follow the rules
on managing foreign-currency liquidity risk such as currency-
specific management, an early warning system, crisis analysis
and contingency funding plans.  
 “The timing stinks and could actually heighten volatility
in the near-term,”  Win Thin , senior currency strategist at
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., wrote in a June 10 report. Win,
who says the government should have introduced the measures in
April as the currency was declining, forecasts the won may drop
to 1,292 by the first half of July.  
 Debt Burden  
 South Korea’s short-term external debt totaled $154.62
billion at the end of March, accounting for 57 percent of all
overseas borrowings,  Bank of Korea  data show. At the end of 2008,
short-term debt accounted for 75 percent of the total.  
 South Korea is vulnerable to a surge in capital flows as a
small, open economy, the finance ministry’s Yim said, noting
that $65 billion was removed from the country in the four to
five months after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. Yim signaled continuing government intervention in the
currency market, saying it will take “smoothing-operation”
measures to stabilize the market and discourage herd behavior.  
 “If the government is successful in tapering down
volatility, it will probably be better for the wider economy,”
said  Joseph Lau , a Hong Kong-based Korea economist for Credit
Suisse Group AG. Still, “anything offshore is out of the reach
of authorities, and people can still take positions against the
Korean won. There’s a limit to what they can do to reduce
volatility.”  
 “I don’t think the government is trying to roll back the
market’s liberal or open measures from the last decade,” Lau
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net 
 Eunkyung Seo  in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian walks past the Bank of Korea headquarters in Seoul. Photographer: SeongJoon Cho/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
