-- Strasburg Strikes Out Eight, Gets Second Win as Nationals Beat Indians 9-4
-- Rob Gloster
-- 2010-06-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/stephen-strasburg-strikes-out-8-gets-win-as-nationals-beat-indians-9-4.html

          
          
             Stephen Strasburg ’s biggest
challenge in his second major league start came from some loose
dirt, not from most of the Cleveland Indians’ hitters.  
 Strasburg allowed two hits in 5 1/3 innings and struck out
eight yesterday, getting the win in the Washington Nationals’ 9-
4 victory in front of Cleveland’s biggest home crowd since
opening day.  
 The right-hander, who did not walk a batter in his debut on
June 8 at home against the Pittsburgh Pirates, gave up five
walks yesterday after having trouble with the pitching mound.
Cleveland groundskeepers twice manicured the mound because the
6-foot-4 Strasburg was slipping on his delivery.  
 “You really can’t let things like that affect you,”
Strasburg said in a televised postgame interview. “There are
always going to be times out there when things are not the
perfect situation, and you’ve really got to try to go out there
and persevere and overcome that. Unfortunately, I wasn’t able to
make the adjustments today.”  
 Strasburg, 21, who was the No. 1 pick in the 2009 draft,
now has 22 strikeouts while winning his first two starts. The
only run he allowed yesterday came when  Travis Hafner  lined a
100 mph (161 kph) fastball over the right-field wall for a home
run leading off the second inning.  
 There were 32,876 fans in the stands, including 91-year-old
Hall of Fame pitcher  Bob Feller . That’s more than double
Cleveland’s usual crowd. The Indians entered the game averaging
16,023 fans per game this season, the lowest attendance in Major
League Baseball.  
 The Indians’ only bigger crowd this season was on opening
day, when they drew 42,061 fans to 43,545-seat Progressive
Field.  
 Network Coverage  
 The game was shown on the TBS network, bumping a game
between the defending National League champion Philadelphia
Phillies and the Boston Red Sox, even though the Nationals and
Indians were in last place in their divisions.  
 Strasburg started the game with a 100 mph fastball to
 Trevor Crowe  and struck out the first two Indians batters he
faced. He had two more strikeouts in the second inning after
allowing the homer by the left-handed Hafner.  
 Strasburg induced three straight groundouts in the third,
and struck out the side while allowing two walks in the fourth.
He had another strikeout and a walk in the fifth.  
 The rookie got one out in the sixth before allowing a bloop
single and two walks to load the bases. He was replaced by Drew
Storen, who got two outs to finish off the inning.  
 ‘Did Well Enough’  
 “I thought I did well enough to get a win today,”
Strasburg said. “There’s going to be days when it’s not going
to look pretty.”  
 Ivan Rodriguez  had a two-run double and  Ian Desmond  added a
two-run triple for Washington in the sixth inning. The Nationals
added three runs in the eighth on a two-run homer by  Roger Bernadina  and a run-scoring double by  Alberto Gonzalez .  
 Adam Dunn  homered leading off the fourth and  Mike Morse  had
a run-scoring single in the second for Washington, which had
lost the first two games of the weekend series to the Indians.  
 Cleveland scored three runs in the ninth on an RBI single
by  Luis Valbuena  and a two-run single by  Shin-Soo Choo .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        