-- Stocks Beat Bonds in Value as U.S. Profit Yields Jump
-- Alexis Xydias
-- 2010-06-14T20:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/stocks-beating-bonds-in-relative-value-after-s-p-500-earnings-yields-surge.html

          
          
             The biggest decline for global
equities in 15 months has left stocks at the cheapest level
relative to bonds since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., a sign that shares in the U.S. and Europe may rally.  
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies yielded 4.4
percentage points more in profit than the average interest rate
on investment-grade  bonds  last week, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg and Barclays Plc. The inflation-adjusted spread
shows stocks are trading near the lowest prices compared with
corporate earnings since November 2008 next to bonds.  
 Cliff Remily  at Thornburg Investment Management, which
oversees $57 billion, and  Barry Knapp  of Barclays say the yield
gap shows shares are too cheap to pass up with  corporate profits 
forecast to rise the most in 16 years. While bears say the S&P
500 will tumble as Europe’s debt crisis curbs global growth,
rising profit yields in stocks over bonds may provide a margin
of safety for investors after  $6.11 trillion  was erased from
equity markets worldwide since April 15.  
 “From a valuation perspective, you’ve got a little bit of
the best of both worlds,” said  Leo Grohowski , who oversees $157
billion as chief investment officer at BNY Mellon Wealth
Management in Boston. “Bond yields are still low,” he said.
“But earnings estimates are still at levels that are baking in
an economic recovery. Something may have to give.”  
 Biggest Drop  
 U.S. stocks are dropping at the fastest rate since the S&P
500 bottomed at a 12-year low in March 2009 as European nations
from Spain to Greece struggle to convince investors they can
close their budget deficits. Even so, with a market value of
$13.3 trillion, American shares exceed the combined worth of
Japan, China, the U.K., Canada, France and Switzerland.  
 Analysts have lifted their average 2010 earnings growth
forecasts for the S&P 500 to 32 percent from 26 percent at the
end of March even as the benchmark measure of U.S. equities
retreated  13 percent  between April 23 and June 4, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The index slipped 0.2 percent to
1,089.63 today.  
 S&P 500 companies have reported per-share profit during the
past year totaling 6.3 percent of the index’s current price,
topping the average interest rate of 4.5 percent for investment
grade corporate debt in the U.S., data from London-based
Barclays show. Profit yields for S&P 500 companies averaged 6
percent since 1954, based on the median compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The spread between the  Stoxx Europe 600  Index’s income
yield and the payout on 10-year German bunds widened to 4.5
percentage points last week, near the highest since 2008.  
 Lehman Brothers  
 American shares last had an advantage this big two months
after New York-based Lehman Brothers collapsed in September
2008, intensifying the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. Four months later, in March 2009, the S&P 500 began
the biggest rally since the 1930s.  
 Equities  are also paying out more than government bonds.
Ten-year Treasuries yield 5.3 percentage points less than the
S&P 500 when adjusted for the annual increase in consumer
prices, the most since March 2009.  
 The S&P 500 rose 2.5 percent to 1,091.60 last week, the
biggest  increase  since March, while the  Stoxx Europe 600  climbed
2 percent to 249.46 for its third straight gain. Strategists at
13 securities firms say the S&P 500 will rally 16 percent from
last week’s close to end the year at 1,268, according to the
average estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 A chart pattern known as an inverted head and shoulders,
centered around the March 2009 intraday low of 666.79, shows the
index may reach about 1,240, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 ‘Really Cheap’  
 “Against other asset classes, equities look really
cheap,” said Knapp, head of U.S. equity strategy for Barclays
in New York. “It could mean that we’re completely wrong on the
inflation outlook, which means it’s going to get much worse,
much faster. Or it could mean that stocks are decidedly cheap
and people are overly cautious.”  
 Interest rate increases from central banks and faster
inflation may erode the yield advantage for equities, proving
stock bulls wrong. Policy makers boosted benchmark borrowing
costs in Brazil and New Zealand last week.  
 The Federal Reserve’s target interest rate for overnight
loans between banks is forecast to rise to 0.5 percent in the
first quarter of 2011, from the zero to 0.25 percent range
that’s been in place since December 2008, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 65 economists.  
 Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 8 that policy makers
may have to raise the rate before the economy returns to “full
employment.”  
 Greece, Spain  
 While debt investors in Europe punish nations from Greece
to Spain for deficit spending by pushing up bond yields,
Treasury rates of all maturities have fallen to an average of
about 2 percent from 2.75 percent a year ago even as the amount
of marketable debt outstanding increased 20 percent to $7.96
trillion.  
 David Macia , a money manager for Credit Andorra’s asset
management unit overseeing about $6 billion, says the valuation
gap between bonds and stocks will narrow because earnings
estimates are too optimistic and benchmark interest rates are at
a record low.  
 “If you think profits are going to run at those levels,
then the economy will likely be doing much better too, so we
should see higher interest rates that will act as a
counterbalance,” Macia said in an interview from Andorra La
Vella, Andorra. “This is an anomaly created by rates that are
too low. It’s a paradox.”  
 Nuclear Power  
 Remily, who manages the $4.86 billion  Thornburg Investment
Income Builder Fund  that’s beaten 98 percent of rivals in the
past five years, is finding value in  Entergy Corp. , the second-
largest operator of U.S. nuclear power plants. Shares of the New
Orleans-based company yield 9.3 percent in profit from the past
year and 4.4 percent in dividends. That compares with Entergy’s
most recently traded corporate bond, its 5 percent note due in
2018 that yielded 4.75 percent on June 10, according to Trace.  
 “It shouldn’t trade at that level of a risk premium
because it’s a utility,” Remily said in an interview from Santa
Fe, New Mexico. “You’re getting a business that grows slowly,
but you’re not paying much for it. In general, we’re finding a
lot of good opportunities.”  
 Total SA , Europe’s second-largest oil producer by market
value, was the fund’s sixth-biggest holding as of April 30. The
shares have fallen 12 percent this year, pushing its earnings
yield to 9.9 percent and  dividend  payout to 5.8 percent. The
3.125 note from the Paris-based company due in 2015 yields 2.85
percent, Bloomberg data show.  
 Better Odds  
 Fujitsu Ltd. , Japan’s biggest computer-services provider,
has an earnings yield of 7.9 percent and pays a dividend of 5
yen a share twice a year. Tokyo-based Fujitsu’s 3 percent notes
due in 2018 yield 1.18 percent, according to Bloomberg prices.  
 “If earnings are not going to fall apart, equities are
priced very attractively to bonds,” said  Tristan Hanson ,
manager of asset allocation and strategy in Jersey, Channel
Islands, at Ashburton Ltd., which oversees $1.7 billion. “The
world’s not without risk, but the odds have moved in your
favor.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lynn Thomasson  in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The New York Stock Exchange  
                       
                         
                           JB Reed/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Stephen Biggar, director of equity research at Standard and Poor's, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about his investment strategy for U.S. stocks. 
     Biggar, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for global financial markets and Europe's debt crisis. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Beal, director of Pacific equities at Henderson Global Investors, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about his investment strategy for Asian stocks.
     Speaking from Singapore, Beal also discusses global economies and stocks, and China's property market. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Chris Hyzy, investment strategist at U.S. Trust Co., speaks about the outlook for U.S. stocks and Greece's debt crisis.
     He talks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Satya Pradhuman, chief executive officer of Cirrus Research LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee about his investment strategy for U.S. small-cap stocks.
     Pradhuman, speaking from New York, also discusses the impact of global economic instability on stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
