-- U.K. Economy to Grow Faster Than Forecast as Pound Aids Exports, CBI Says
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-06-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/u-k-economy-to-grow-faster-than-forecast-as-pound-aids-exports-cbi-says.html

          
          
             The U.K. economy  will grow faster
than previously forecast this year because the pound’s drop is
helping manufacturers to increase exports, the Confederation of
British Industry said today.  
 Gross domestic product  will rise 1.3 percent this year,
compared with a prediction in March of 1 percent, the nation’s
largest business lobby said in an e-mailed press release. The
group kept its 2011 forecast unchanged at 2.5 percent growth.  
 “The U.K.’s tentative recovery will be sustained,”  Richard Lambert , the CBI’s director general and a former Bank of England
policy maker, said in a statement. “It is clear that the
private sector will have to be the main driver of economic
growth to offset lower government spending. It is therefore
essential that next week’s emergency budget creates the right
conditions for businesses to drive growth.”  
 The Office for Budget Responsibility will today release the
economic forecasts that will underpin finance minister  George Osborne ’s June 22 budget. With the deepest public spending cuts
since at least the early 1980s looming, U.K. officials are
counting on the  pound’s drop  of about a quarter on a trade-
weighted basis since the start of 2007 to aid growth.  
 The economy’s pace of expansion will pick up during the
current quarter to 0.8 percent from 0.3 percent in the previous
three months, the CBI predicted. GDP will then rise 0.5 percent
in the third quarter and 0.4 percent in the final three months
of the year, the forecasts show.  
 OBR Forecasts  
 The OBR, an agency created by Osborne to provide forecasts
independent of the government, will release its predictions for
economic growth and the  budget deficit  at 10 a.m. today in
London. The fiscal shortfall reached 11.1 percent in the year
through March, a postwar high.  
 “Growth is likely to be tempered somewhat in the second
half of the year, as government spending cuts get under way,”
 Ian McCafferty , the CBI’s chief economic adviser, said in the
statement. “However, the recovery is forecast to build some
momentum next year when the spending of households and
businesses is expected to strengthen.”  
 The CBI predicts the Bank of England will start to raise
its  benchmark interest rate  from a record low of 0.5 percent in
the third quarter, reaching 1 percent this year and 2 percent at
the end of 2011.  
 Inflation  will slow “sharply” and drop below the central
bank’s 2 percent target in the second quarter of 2011, the CBI
said. The rate reached a 17-month high of 3.7 percent in April,
and data due tomorrow may show it fell to 3.5 percent in May,
according to the median of 30 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 9 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Coulton, head of sovereign debt research for Fitch Ratings, talks about the U.K. government's response to the ratings agency's calls to accelerate the pace of deficit cuts.
     Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne yesterday pledged a “fundamental reassessment” of state spending to tame a deficit that soared to 11 percent of gross domestic product in the year through March. Coulton speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
