-- BP Gets Containment Capacity Deadline From U.S. as Obama Seeks Escrow Fund
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-06-13T14:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/u-s-gives-bp-containment-capacity-deadline-as-obama-to-seek-escrow-fund.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  wants  BP Plc 
to set up an escrow account to pay the claims for damages caused
by its oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, White House adviser
 David Axelrod  said.  
 “BP has the resources to meet the claims and we’re going
to make sure they do,” Axelrod said today on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” program.  
 Obama is scheduled to meet June 16 at the White House with
BP’s chairman,  Carl-Henric Svanberg , and other company
officials. Establishing the reserve account will be a subject
for “discussion between us and BP, but it has to be substantial
enough to meet the claims,” Axelrod said.  
 BP said yesterday its board will meet June 14 to discuss
whether to cut or defer its second-quarter dividend payment
following the spill.  
 “The board will be looking at a number of options when it
meets tomorrow,” said  Sheila Williams , a spokeswoman for BP,
when asked about the proposed reserve account. “No decision is
expected this week,” she added.  
 Obama plans a two-day visit to the Gulf Coast beginning
tomorrow to check on progress in countering the oil spill. He
plans to address the nation this week after he returns from the
visit, Axelrod said.  
 ‘Get Through This Crisis’  
 The nationwide address will include steps the government
plans to deal with the oil, Axelrod said. “He wants to lay out
the steps we’re going to take from here to get through this
crisis.”  
 BP has “legal and moral obligations to the people in the
gulf,” Axelrod said. “Our mission is to hold them accountable
in every appropriate way.”  
 “We’re not interested in undermining the integrity of
their company,” he said. “They have a pecuniary interests that
may be in conflict with our interests and we have to make sure
the interests of the gulf are protected.”  
 BP has 50,101 claims and has paid $58.1 million in damages
as of June 11.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        