-- Lula Aide Rousseff Nominated for Brazil's Presidency, Vows to Cut Taxes
-- Carla Simoes
-- 2010-06-13T19:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/lula-aide-rousseff-nominated-for-brazil-s-presidency-vows-to-cut-taxes.html

          
          
             Dilma Rousseff , President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s former cabinet chief, received her
party’s nomination for president and vowed to cut tax rates
while increasing the number of taxpayers.  
 “We will invest to computerize all our taxes and increase
the number of taxpayers while reducing the tax rates,”
Rousseff, Lula’s chosen heir, said today when confirmed as the
presidential candidate of the  Workers’ Party , also known as PT.  
 Lower House President  Michel Temer , 69, was selected
yesterday by the  Brazilian Democratic Movement Party , or PMDB,
as its candidate for vice president to run with Rousseff in the
October election. The parties of the two nominees work as allies
in the government.  
 Rousseff, 62, pledged to end poverty and continue Lula’s
policies with “a woman’s heart and soul.”  
 “We can say we will eliminate poverty in Brazil in the
next years because we already started doing it,” Rousseff said.
“We need to continue changing with more growth and social
inclusion.”  
 Rousseff will compete against  Jose Serra , 68, who was
confirmed yesterday as the candidate for the  Brazilian Social
Democracy Party , the country’s biggest opposition group. The
former governor of Sao Paulo, Brazil’s wealthiest and most
populous state, has the endorsement of the second-biggest
opposition party, the  Democrats , and of the  Popular Socialist
Party .  
 While Rousseff emphasizes continuity of Lula’s policies,
Serra will boost attacks on the government,  Andre Cesar , partner
at CAC Consultoria, a political risk consulting company, said.  
 ‘Complicated Work’  
 “Dilma will reinforce the continuity issue, more of the
same and moving forward,” Cesar said today in a telephone
interview from Brasilia. “Serra needs to position himself, be
the dissonant voice. He will try to detach Dilma from Lula’s
persona. It is hard, complicated work.”  
 Serra’s party, known as PSDB, hasn’t yet picked a candidate
for vice president. The choice will be the most important
development in the presidential race in the following weeks,
Cesar said. “Will it be someone from the Democrats or will it
be an all-PSDB ticket?”  
 Rousseff and Serra are tied ahead of October’s election,
according to an Ibope poll published on June 5.  
 Each were supported by 37 percent of those surveyed, while
9 percent backed  Marina Silva , the former environment minister,
the Rio de Janeiro-based poll showed. Eight percent of the 2,002
voters polled were undecided. The poll has a margin of error of
2 percentage points.  
 Lula, 64, who is barred by the constitution from a third
consecutive term, had crossed the country with Rousseff, in a
bid to boost her candidacy, since she has never held elective
office.  
 Serra’s PSDB party held the presidency from 1995 through
2002 under  Fernando Henrique Cardoso . Serra lost a presidential
runoff in October 2002 with 39 percent of the vote to Lula’s 61
percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net 
 Carla Simoes  in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        