-- Zimbabwe `Blood Diamonds' Should Be Banned Over Rights Abuses, Group Says
-- Thomas Biesheuvel
-- 2010-06-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-13/zimbabwe-blood-diamonds-should-spur-suspension-of-sales-group-reports.html

          
          
             Zimbabwe should be banned from
selling diamonds to members of the  Kimberley Process , created to
end trade in stones mined to fund conflict and war, after claims
of smuggling, rape and assault by the country’s army and police
at its Marange gem fields,  Global Witness  said.  
 “By turning a blind eye to ongoing rights abuses, the
Kimberley Process appears to be legitimising the situation in
Marange,” the London-based group, which campaigns to prevent
natural resource-related conflict and corruption, wrote in a
report today. “The Kimberley Process should suspend Zimbabwe,
until there is credible evidence that abuses have ended.”  
 Exclusion would stop Zimbabwe trading rough diamonds with
the other 75 governments that participate in the system. The
Kimberley Process decided against suspending the country in
November, saying members supported its efforts to comply.
Zimbabwe’s state-run Herald daily said June 8 the country had
met standards to allow it to sell diamonds from Marange, citing
Kimberley Process Monitor Abbey Chikane.  
 “Hundreds of people have been killed, and many more have
been beaten, raped and forced to mine for the army and police,”
Global Witness said. “The failure of KP member states to agree
to suspend Zimbabwe has prompted deep concern among some KP
participants and observers, who have begun to question the
future of the scheme.”  
 Zimbabwe is also accused of abuses at Marange by New York-
based Human Rights Watch, which says as many as 200 civilians
may have been killed there by the military. The campaign group
called for a ban on Marange diamonds unless Zimbabwe adheres to
the standards of the Kimberley Process.  
 Banned from Trade  
 Rapaport Group’s RapNet Diamond Trading Network, the
world’s biggest, last year banned its members from dealing in
Marange gems after reports of human rights abuses.  
 “Consumers simply cannot understand why so many KP
participants refuse to acknowledge the existence of Zimbabwean
blood diamonds,” Global Witness said in its report.  
 The mining rights for Marange were seized from U.K.-based
 African Consolidated Resources Plc  in October 2006 and handed to
the state-owned Zimbabwe Mining Development Corp. The
government-controlled business last year formed partnerships
with Mbada Mining (Private) Ltd. and Canadile Mines (Private)
Ltd. to extract diamonds. African Consolidated is challenging
the seizure of its mining claims in the Supreme Court.  
 An official who declined to be identified in the office of
Zimbabwe Mines Minister Obert Mpofu said the minister wasn’t
immediately available to comment when Bloomberg called.  
 The Kimberley Process, an initiative by governments,
industry and civil-society groups, runs a program to certify
diamonds as “conflict-free” for members who meet its
requirements, according to the KP website.  
 Conflict diamonds are the rough gems that have been traded
by rebel movements to finance wars against governments,
including those in Angola, Ivory Coast, the Democratic Republic
of Congo and Sierra Leone, according to the website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Biesheuvel  in London 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        