-- Belgian Consumer Confidence Rebounds as Economic Recovery Gathers Momentum
-- Jones Hayden
-- 2010-06-18T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-05-20/belgian-consumer-sentiment-declines-the-most-in-five-months-on-debt-crisis.html

          
          
             Belgian  consumer confidence 
rebounded in June as the economic recovery gathered strength.  
 The consumer sentiment index for Belgium, the sixth-largest
economy in the euro region, rose to minus 9 from minus 13 in
May, the Brussels-based  National Bank of Belgium  said in an e-
mailed statement today.  
 Rising sentiment may bolster  household spending  and aid a
recovery that is being led by exports even as concerns that
Greece’s debt crisis may spread cloud the outlook. The central
bank this week raised its growth forecast and said consumption
“should gradually  gather momentum ” this year. The bank
predicts the economy, which shrank 3 percent in 2009, will
expand 1.3 percent in 2010 and 1.7 percent next year.  
 “So far, we have not seen an impact of the Greek financial
crisis on our sales,”  Delhaize Group SA  Chief Executive Officer
 Pierre-Olivier Beckers  told shareholders on May 27. Delhaize,
Belgium’s biggest food retailer by market share, forecasts that
operating profit will increase by 7 percent to 10 percent this
year.  
 After early elections on June 13, Belgium may face
uncertainty until a government is formed. Flemish nationalist
party leader  Bart De Wever  agreed yesterday to explore options
for a coalition after his New-Flemish Alliance emerged as the
biggest party in parliament. Three years ago, government
formation took a record nine months.  
 A gauge measuring households’ assessment of the economy in
the coming year advanced to minus 4 from minus 6 in May, today’s
report showed. Consumers also grew more optimistic about the
prospects for their financial situation and their saving
capacity.  
 Labor Market  
 “Consumers appeared distinctly more confident about future
developments on the labor market,” the central bank said in
today’s report. “Fears of a resurgence of unemployment have
thus faded.”  
 While the bank projects the deterioration in employment
levels will slow this year, the jobless rate is forecast to
increase to 8.3 percent in 2010 and to 8.8 percent in 2011.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jones Hayden  in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        