-- New Zealand's Annual Immigration Growth Slows for Fourth Consecutive Month
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-06-21T00:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-05-20/new-zealand-s-annual-immigration-growth-slows-for-a-third-month-in-april.html

          
          
             New Zealand’s annual immigration
growth slowed in May for a fourth straight month as more
residents departed.  
 The number of permanent  migrant arrivals  exceeded
departures by 17,967 in the 12 months ended May 31, Statistics
New Zealand said today in Wellington. That’s down from 19,954 in
the year through April and is the lowest since September.  
 Finance Minister  Bill English  last month cut income taxes
as the government seeks to encourage more New Zealanders to stay
home rather than leave for higher paid jobs overseas. Fewer
immigrants, low wages and tight credit are curbing domestic
demand, adding to signs the central bank will only raise
interest rates gradually this year.  
 “Although net migration has slowed much faster than
anticipated, we expect the annual flow to stabilize at around
10,000, similar to the Reserve Bank’s outlook,” said  Jane Turner , an economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “For now,
the bank is likely to be comfortable with the subdued net
migration and housing outlook.”  
 Reserve Bank Governor  Alan Bollard  increased the official
cash rate a quarter-point to 2.75 percent on June 10 after
keeping borrowing costs at a record low for 14 months.  
 Local Currency  
 The New Zealand dollar bought 71.22 U.S. cents at 12:15 p.m.
in Wellington from 71.12 cents immediately before today’s report.  
 Analysts monitor a monthly, seasonally adjusted series to
determine the pace of immigration. In May, a net 250 migrants
arrived.  
 Immigration is declining after rising to the highest level
in more than five years in January, amid signs that fewer New
Zealanders are returning home and expectations that more will
head overseas to work or study.  
 In May, arrivals dropped 13 percent from the year-earlier
month while permanent departures rose 24 percent, today’s report
showed.  
 The number of New Zealand residents departing in May surged
21 percent from the year-earlier month. The number of citizens
headed to Australia in May climbed 20 percent from a year
earlier to 2,536.  
 Short-term  visitor arrivals  rose 1 percent in May,
seasonally adjusted, from April, today’s report showed. The
underlying trend in arrivals is declining, the agency said.
Unadjusted arrivals fell 0.4 percent from May last year.  
 Promotion of New Zealand as a destination for Australian
travelers has helped arrivals recover after the global recession
cut international air travel last year, reducing tourist visits
from Asia and Europe. Tourism makes up about 10 percent of the
New Zealand economy.  
 Total arrivals rose 3 percent in the year ended May 31 from
a year earlier as an 11 percent gain in Australian tourists
countered a slump in visitors from Asia, which dropped 7.1
percent, today’s report showed. Excluding Australia, visitors
declined 2.8 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        