-- Philadelphia Fed Factory Index Slumps to 8 Following May's 21.4 Reading
-- Bob Willis
-- 2010-06-17T14:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-05-20/philadelphia-fed-s-factory-index-climbed-to-21-4-in-may-from-april-s-20-2.html

          
          
             Manufacturing  in the Philadelphia
region expanded in June at a slower rate than forecast as a
measure of factory employment contracted for the first time in
seven months.  
 The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s  general economic
index  dropped to 8, a 10-month low, from 21.4 in May. Readings
above zero signal growth in the regional gauge, which covers
eastern Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and Delaware.
Economists forecast the measure would fall to 20, according to
the median projection in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Manufacturing, which led the economy out of the worst
recession since the 1930s, is easing into a more sustainable
pace of growth as the need to replenish  inventories  becomes less
pressing. The figures stand in contrast to a report this week
showing New York factories expanded at a faster rate.  
 “Manufacturing still seems to be in a modest expansion,”
said  David Sloan , a senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in New York.
His forecast of 10 was the lowest in the Bloomberg survey. “The
fact that employment dipped suggests manufacturing growth is not
that strong.”  
 Stocks fell after the report, with the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  dropping 0.7 percent to 1,107.29 at 10:27 a.m. in New
York. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note declined to 3.2
percent from 3.26 percent late yesterday.  
 Jobless Claims  
 The figures follow a report from the Labor Department today
that showed consumer prices fell in May for a second month. The
Labor Department also said  jobless claims  rose by 12,000 to
472,000 last week, a sign companies are still trimming payrolls.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected 450,000 new claims,
according to the median forecast.  
 Estimates in the survey of 58 economists for the
Philadelphia Fed index ranged from 10 to 24.  
 The Fed bank’s shipments gauge dropped to 14.2 from 15.8 in
May. The new orders measure rose to 9 from 6.1.  
 The  employment index  declined to minus 1.5 from 3.2 in
April. Factories nationally have added 126,000 workers to their
payrolls this year, according to Labor Department data.  
 The Philadelphia Fed’s index of prices paid decreased to 10
from 35.5 in May. Prices received declined to minus 6.5 from
3.5.  
 The inventory index rose to 4.6 from minus 7.9, signaling
factories are adding to stockpiles.  
 The overall Philadelphia Fed index isn’t composed of the
individual measures, so some economists consider it a gauge of
sentiment among manufacturers.  
 New York Manufacturing  
 Figures from the  New York Fed  two days ago showed factories
in that region expanded in June at a faster rate than the
previous month. The so-called Empire State Index rose to 19.6
from 19.1.  
 Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the Institute for Supply
Management figures on U.S. manufacturing during the month. That
report will be released July 1.  
 The  ISM’s manufacturing  gauge fell in May from the previous
month’s level, which was the highest in almost six years.  
 Trade is helping spearhead the factory rebound. U.S.
 exports  have risen 10 of the 12 months through April, boosted by
surging growth in emerging Asian and Latin American countries,
according to figures from the Commerce Department.  
 Wilmington, Delaware-based  DuPont  forecasts its sales in
emerging markets will grow in two years to about $12 billion, or
35 percent of its total sales, from about 30 percent last year,
Chief Financial Officer  Nicholas Fanandakis  said June 8 at an
industry conference in New York.  
 DuPont Sales  
 “As you continue to see the growth in population and
consumerism, the increase in the middle class, the need for
products and services increases, and DuPont is extremely well
positioned to take advantage of that growth opportunity” in
such countries ranging from China to Brazil, he said.  
 The U.S. grew at a 3 percent annual rate in the first
quarter, helped by the biggest increase in consumer spending in
three years and a 13 percent rise in business investment in new
equipment, the Commerce Department said last month.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The index of U.S. leading indicators rose 0.4 percent in May, signaling the world’s largest economy will keep expanding this year. Photographer: Mike Mergen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
