-- After Earthquake Chilean Wineries Count Damage, Trust Exports
-- John Mariani
-- 2010-03-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-08/after-earthquake-chilean-wineries-count-damage-trust-exports.html

          
          
             Last week’s massive earthquake in
Chile caused widespread damage to the country’s wineries,
although current supplies should help avert significant
disruption in export sales.  
 Losses may reach about $250 million, or about 12.9 percent
of 2009’s production, according to Rene Merino Blanco, president
of Vinas de Chile, an association that represents more than 90
percent of the country’s wineries.  
 Exports last year totaled 670 million liters valued at
$1.36 billion. The 2010 harvest is just beginning, so production
of wines for that vintage will be largely unaffected. The real
damage has been to stocks of already finished or bottled wines.  
 Top producer Concha y Toro saw 3 of its 11 facilities
heavily damaged. At Miguel Torres Chile, a spokesperson
reported, “the losses are significant at the winery: around 300
casks smashed, one stainless-steel vat with a capacity of
100,000 liters has been cracked, losing all the wine, thousands
of bottles destroyed. Luckily the main structure of the
buildings has withstood the quake.”  
 Miguel Torres Chile is one of the reasons why Chilean
wines, with their high, consistent quality and moderate prices,
will continue to have a major impact on the global market
despite the quake’s damage.  
 The family-owned company, whose vineyards in Spain date
back 300 years, bought land in Maquehua, Curico, near the Andes
in 1979 and has been the country’s bellwether winery ever since.
It was the first in Chile to introduce stainless-steel cold
fermentation tanks and French oak barrels for aging red wine.  
 Sales Rise  
 From 2004 to 2008 Miguel Torres Chile’s sales rose to
11.24 million euros ($15.3 million) from 8.38 million euros
($11.4 million), making it the second-largest unit of the
company. Of the 3.9 million bottles (about 325,000 cases)
produced in 2008, 82 percent were exported to more than 80
markets.  
 The company’s mission has been to find the most productive
soils for individual varietals. It is in the forefront of
organic viticulture with its Las Mulas line.  
 Tradition and heritage may be the backbone of winemaking,
but it is youth that drives the future. In the case of Miguel
Torres Chile, the appointment of fifth-generation scion Miguel
Torres Maczassek, 35, as executive president, has given the
winery much of its current vigor. (His sister Mireia, 39, is
technical director of Miguel Torres Chile & Spain.)  
 Business Studies  
 Torres, who previously was the company’s marketing director
in Spain, studied business at Kenan-Flagler Business School in
Chapel Hill, North Carolina, received his MBA from ESADE
Business School in Barcelona, and studied enology at the
Universitat Rovira I Virgili in Tarragona. Speaking six
languages including Japanese, Torres seems to have world
conquest on his mind.  
 I met with him just three days before the earthquake
struck, while he was on a business trip to New York. We had
dinner at New York’s La Fonda del Sol restaurant, where chef
Josh De Chellis matched his highly imaginative cuisine to 12
wines -- bay scallops with tomato and saffron; tuna tacos with
avocado, jalapeno and pickled onion; and beef cooked on a barrel
stave soaked in red wine and Scotch.  
 One of the real surprises was a sparkling Espumante made
from Chile’s workhorse grape pais (also called mission). It was
a bright, brisk bubbly I would gladly drink as an aperitif.  
 ‘An Experiment’  
 “This wine is an experiment,” said Torres. “We wanted to
see if this old, widely planted varietal could work as a fine
wine, and if it succeeds, it will enable us to pay the workers
more money to harvest it.” He plans to release it in a year or
so, at $12-$15.  
 I also tasted the fresh, grassy 2009 La Mulas Sauvignon
Blanc and a mediocre, sweet 2009 rose made from cabernet
sauvignon. I moved on to a series of reds, beginning with the
2008 Las Mulas 100 percent cabernet, whose youth was actually a
bonus in a wine of medium body and ready to drink. The Las Mulas
wines retail for $11.  
 Three other cabernets showed how their wines change with
vintage and age. With ideal weather in 2006, the Manso de
Velasco ($37) was macerated on the skins for an entire month,
its tannins still tight and way up front, so that it will be
better judged in two to five years. The 2003 ($37) was much more
aromatic and its tamed tannins gave way to a full-fruited
intensity and complexity.  
 Dry Year  
 The tough-to-find 1997 was the driest vintage in the
winery’s history, and it proved the old adage that grapes must
suffer to produce great wines. This was a superb cabernet, rich
in minerals and spice, mellowed by age, and balanced throughout.  
 As I mentioned, Torres is excited by innovation, so he also
makes a big, smoky, tannic 2007 Santa Digna Carmenere ($11);
2007 Cordillera Carinena ($27), a complex, somewhat plummy blend
of 66 percent carignane, 16 percent shiraz, and 18 percent
merlot; and 2004 Conde de Superunda ($55), a marvelous mix of 54
percent tempranillo, 24 percent cabernet sauvignon, 12 percent
monastrell, and 10 percent carmenere that mimics the fine
tempranillo out of Spain yet shows off the effect of Chile’s
brilliant sunshine in producing a fleshier, more voluptuous
wine.  
 Massive Merlot  
 The final wine, to be released next year (no price yet),
was Torres’s new showpiece: 2009 Empedrado, a 100 percent merlot
made on difficult-to-harvest terraced, slate based soils called
‘piedra laja.’ It’s a massive wine at the moment, very rich,
and, like the best out of California, demonstrates the power of
merlot. Torres also believes these vineyards in Constitucion are
prime terroir for pinot noir, which the company has also
planted.  
 These wines are impressive not just for their soundness and
varietal expressiveness but for their reasonable alcohol levels
-- none above 14 percent -- and prices. They are in the sweet
spot right now and they should be there for a long time to come.  
 (John Mariani writes on wine for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The vineyards of Miguel Torres winery in Chile. The winery will continue to have an impact on the global markert despite the earthquake.  Source: Miguel Torres Chile via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Miguel Torres Maczassek  
                       
                         
                           Miguel Torres Chile via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Miguel Torres Maczassek, the executive president of Miguel Torres Chile. The 35-year winemaker speaks six languages, including Japanese. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Miguel Torres Maczassek, the executive president of Miguel Torres Chile. The 35-year winemaker speaks six languages, including Japanese. Source: Miguel Torres Chile via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The caves at Miguel Torres winery in Chile. French oak barrels have been used since Torres launched its winery in 1979.  Source: Miguel Torres Chile via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
