-- Teva Profit Rises on Generic Oxycontin, Lotrel Drugs
-- Alex Kuli
-- 2007-08-01T20:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-08-01/teva-profit-rises-on-generic-oxycontin-lotrel-drugs-update6-.html

          
          
             Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world's biggest maker of generic drugs, reported the slowest
profit growth in five quarters as the company lost exclusive
rights to make copies of two cholesterol treatments.  
 Net income  in the second quarter rose 5.3 percent to $515
million, or 63 cents a share, from $489 million, or 59 cents, a
year earlier, Teva said today. That's the smallest increase since
the first quarter of 2006, when it reported a net loss. Sales
gained 10 percent to $2.4 billion, a quarterly record.  
 Shares of the  Petah Tikva , Israel-based company declined as
much as 4.1 percent. Teva lost exclusive rights to sell generic
versions of two cholesterol medicines, Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.'s
Pravachol and Merck & Co.'s Zocor. Chief Executive Officer  Shlomo Yanai  said earnings per share would come in at about $2.30 this
year, unchanged from his previous forecast.  
 ``I'd suspect they're being conservative,'' said Richard Gussow, who follows Teva at Excellence Nessuah in  Ramat Gan ,
 Israel . He added that Teva's decline mirrors a slide in the
entire Israel equity market. ``Teva is just another stock that's
taking it on the chin.''  
 Teva's American depositary receipts rose 58 cents, or 1.4
percent, to $42.60 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The company's Israeli
shares fell 5 shekels, or 2.7 percent, to close at 181 shekels at
Tel Aviv. Today's decline trimmed this year's share gain to 39
percent.  
 Acquisition Hunt  
 Teva is eyeing acquisitions after losing a bid for the
German Merck KGaA's generic-drug unit to Mylan Laboratories in
May, Yanai said. Mylan paid 4.9 billion euros ($6.7 billion) for
the unit.  
 ``We're looking at  Germany  very seriously,'' he said. ``It's
a dynamic market that's going through a lot of change. The
question is how to make the right investment without losing your
pants.''  
 The company also wants to step up research into
biopharmaceutical development, Yanai said. Teva is currently in
the final stages of clinical trials on laquinimod, an oral
multiple sclerosis treatment licensed from  Sweden 's Active
Biotech AB.  
 Profit beat the $460.6 million median estimate of nine
 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg. Analysts had expected Teva to
report earnings per share of 56 cents, 13 percent lower than the
actual result, said Ori Hershkovitz, an analyst at Sphera Fund in
 Tel Aviv .  
 Branded Drugs  
 Revenue from Teva's proprietary Copaxone treatment for
multiple sclerosis increased 23 percent to $436 million. Teva
also benefited as competitors such as Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc.
dropped out of the U.S. market for Oxycontin copies. The company
was cleared to sell its copy of  Novartis AG (NOVN) 's Lotrel heart
medicine after a U.S. judge struck down an injunction in June.  
 ``To show growth over the second quarter of 2006 is
impressive,'' said Yisca Erez, an analyst at CLAL Finance Batucha
in Tel Aviv, in a telephone interview. ``Lotrel was very
successful, and Oxycontin has better prices. Those are the main
drivers of growth.''  
 The Israeli drugmaker ``took the risk of placing three
months of product in the marketplace even before Novartis managed
to obtain a restraining order preventing the move,'' she said in
a note to investors. Teva has 90 percent of the U.S. market for
generic Lotrel, said George Barrett, CEO of Teva US, on a
conference call.  
 Generic Oxycontin  
 Teva is now the only major supplier of a generic version of
Purdue Pharma LP's Oxycontin narcotic pain reliever. Teva is
approaching a 70 percent share of the market, Barrett said.  
 Teva has 153 applications at the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  worth about $90 billion in branded sales, and says
it is the first to file on 40 of them. The FDA grants six-month
sales exclusivity to generic-drug makers as a reward for being
the first to challenge patents on brand-name medicines.  
 The company's branded Parkinson's disease medicine, Azilect,
had revenue of $28 million, compared with $6 million in the
second quarter of 2006.  
 Azilect's contribution is ``good considering that this drug
was only launched last year,'' Erez said. Teva may generate $130
million in Azilect sales this year, she said.  
 Teva's global respiratory sales surged 49 percent to $181
million in the quarter, fueled by the ProAir asthma inhaler. The
drugmaker gained the product when it acquired Ivax Corp. for $7.6
billion last year. Teva is boosting ProAir sales as the U.S.
moves toward a ban on chlorofluorocarbon-based inhalers.  
 Britain bought more of Teva's drugs, making it the company's
most important European market for the first time, said Chief
Financial Officer Dan Suesskind on the conference call. Teva is
also ``optimistic'' about the potential of  Russia , which last
year had trouble funding its state-drug program, the DLO.  
 Legal Fight  
 Teva is battling for the right to sell a generic copy of
Wyeth's Protonix treatment for heartburn. Teva has agreed not to
start selling the drug until Sept. 7 as courts consider Wyeth's
request for an injunction, Wyeth said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  
 The Israeli company is competing with  India 's  Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP)  for 180-day U.S. sales exclusivity
on the Protonix copy. Protonix had revenue of $474 million in the
first quarter, making it Wyeth's third-best-selling product, the
Madison, New Jersey-based company said April 19.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kuli in Budapest at   akuli@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  in  London  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        