-- Jim Cramer: Bare Escentuals, Allergan, Medicis, Avon
-- Steven Bodzin
-- 2006-10-24T01:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-10-24/jim-cramer-bare-escentuals-allergan-medicis-avon-correct-.html

          
          
             Bare Escentuals Inc.'s cosmetics are
a fad, making the stock likely to decline,  Jim Cramer  said on his
``Mad Money'' television program on CNBC.  
 Cramer, a market commentator and former hedge-fund manager,
said the stock was reminiscent of Sealy Corp. in that the initial
public offering aimed to make money for a leveraged buyout
company, rather than for small investors. Sealy's stock has
declined since he recommended it.  
 Allergan Inc. and Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp. are better
investments because the medicines they make, which are injected
in order to get rid of wrinkles, are ``more drastic than
cosmetics and face less cutthroat competition,'' Cramer said.  
 Cramer said to avoid cosmetics makers including Estee Lauder
Cos.,  Elizabeth Arden Inc. (RDEN) ,  Revlon Inc. (REV)  and  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)   
 International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (IFF)  is a lucrative way
to own cosmetics stock because the biggest maker of fragrances
lets other companies do the marketing while it provides the
products, Cramer said.  
 International Flavors & Fragrances' 2.1 percent dividend,
consistent growth and low ratio of price-to-next-years-earnings
made it a good buy, Cramer said. Its customers include PepsiCo,
Inc., Unilever NV,  Procter & Gamble Co .,  Estee Lauder  and
Colgate-Palmolive Co., Cramer said.  
 In response to a caller, Cramer said to buy shares of
Palomar Medical Technologies Inc.  
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  stock has bottomed out and should be
bought, Cramer said. He said the company's concerns about slower
growth was already priced into the stock before a 10-point drop
Oct. 21. He said Cummins Inc. and other makers of products
similar to Caterpillar's had more upbeat assessment of their
market's future.  
 Schlumberger  
 Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  has yet to hit its bottom, he said. He
recommended selling shares of the oil service company. He said
investors would be better served moving their money into
 Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which he owns for his charitable trust.  
 In response to callers, he said to sell shares of  Deere &
Co. (DE)  and to sell  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , as he did for his
charitable trust.  
 In a comparison of FedEx Corp. and United Parcel Service
Inc., he said that while ``you won't get hurt owning UPS,'' FedEx
as a smaller, faster-growing company would rise faster.  
 Cramer recommended  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ,  Symantec
Corp. (SYMC) ,  Rite Aid Corp. (RAD) ,  SAIC Inc. (SAI) ,  OM Group Inc. (OMG) ,  Allegheny
Technologies Inc. (ATI) , Brush Engineered Materials Inc.,  Rockwell
Automation Inc. (ROK) ,  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) ,  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) ,
Johnson & Johnson, Rare Hospitality International Inc.,
 Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) ,  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ,  Life Time Fitness Inc. (LTM) 
and  Level 3 Communications Inc. (LVLT)  in response to questions during
the show's letters, ``Sudden Death'' and ``Lightning Round''
segments.  
 Valero Energy  
 He also told viewers to avoid Secure Computing Corp.,  Cameco
Corp. (CCO)  and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)   
 He said to hold onto shares of Crystallex International
Corp.  
 He said he owns  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and Altria Group Inc.
stock for his charitable trust.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Bodzin in  San Francisco  at 
 sbodzin@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Aimee Sullivan at   asullivan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        