-- Huaneng Power's Third-Quarter Profit Rises on Demand
-- Wing-Gar Cheng
-- 2006-10-24T11:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-10-24/huaneng-power-s-third-quarter-profit-rises-on-demand-update1-.html

          
          
             Huaneng Power International Inc. (902) ,
the largest Chinese power producer listed in  Hong Kong , said
third-quarter profit rose 2.7 percent as demand grew at a faster
pace than fuel costs.  
 Net income rose to 1.47 billion  yuan  ($186 million), or
0.13 yuan a share, from 1.43 billion yuan, or 0.12 yuan, a year
earlier, based on domestic accounting standards, the Beijing-
based company said in a statement to the Shanghai stock exchange
today. Sales rose to 11.6 billion yuan from 10.2 billion yuan  
 Chinese power producers are increasing capacity to supply
electricity in the world's fastest-growing major economy.
Huaneng Power benefited after the government allowed it to raise
tariffs and as coal failed to sustain the pace of price
increases that caused record costs for generators.  
 China , the world's largest electricity consumer after the
U.S., increased electricity prices in May last year and again in
June to help power companies pass on the higher cost of coal.  
 Huaneng Power raised tariffs as much as 7.3 percent this
year. Increases averaged 25 yuan per megawatt-hour, according to
the National Development and Reform Commission, the nation's top
economic planner. China sets power prices to curb their impact
on inflation and shield consumers from rising energy costs.  
 Huaneng Power generated 5.3 percent more electricity in the
first nine months, because of new capacity and higher demand in
coastal provinces. Power production reached 117 million
megawatt-hours, up from 111 million megawatt-hours a year
earlier, the company said on Oct. 11.  
 Huaneng Power shares rose 1.52 percent to close at HK$6.00
today. The earnings were announced after the market close. The
shares have risen 17.7 percent this year, compared with the 22
percent gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  
 The nation's generators produced 13 percent more
electricity in the first nine months, at 2 billion megawatt-
hours, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Wing-Gar Cheng in Beijing at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at   rbooysen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        