-- Vale Buys Control of Canadian Nickel Miner Inco
-- Heloiza Canassa
-- 2006-10-24T21:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-10-24/vale-buys-control-of-canadian-nickel-miner-inco-update4-.html

          
          
             Cia.  Vale  do Rio Doce paid $13.3
billion to acquire control of Inco Ltd., the world's second-largest
nickel maker, putting the Brazilian company on course to become the
top nickel miner by 2009.  
 Rio de Janeiro-based Vale, the world's largest iron-ore
producer, said in an e-mail statement today that 75.66 percent of
Inco shares were tendered in the offer, for which Vale paid C$15
billion ($13.3 billion). Vale said it's extending the offer until
midnight Nov. 3 to acquire the remaining shares.  
 ``Vale's move has a great strategic impact because the company
will be much better positioned to meet the growing demand for
metals worldwide,'' Demian Fiocca, president of  Brazil 's
 Development Bank , said in an interview in Rio de Janeiro. The bank
owns 7 percent of Vale's total capital and an 11.5 percent stake in
Valepar, the holding company that controls the miner with a 52.3
percent stake.  
 The acquisition, part of Chief Executive Officer  Roger
Agnelli 's plan to expand the company outside Brazil and into
markets other than iron-ore, allows Vale to add new nickel capacity
in Brazil,  Canada  and  Indonesia , as well as the $2.15 billion Goro
nickel project in the French overseas territory of  New Caledonia  in
the South Pacific. Valued at C$19.4 billion once complete, the
takeover is the biggest foreign acquisition by a Brazilian company.  
 Fiocca said the bank has no plans to divest Vale shares
because of its ``great value and potential for gains.''  
 Vale shares today rose 1.49 real, or 3.35 percent to 45.99
reais while the benchmark Bovespa index rose 272.22 points, or 0.7
percent, to 39,498.98.  Inco's shares rose 13 cents, or 0.2
percent, to C$86.00.  
 S&P Downgrade  
 Shares held on to gains even after Standard & Poor's Ratings
Services lowered its corporate  credit rating  on Vale, citing
concern that the company's debt will jump after the all-cash
acquisition.  
 S&P said in a statement today that it cut Vale's rating to BBB
from BBB+ and put it on CreditWatch with negative implications.  
 ``The CreditWatch negative reflects our uncertainties as to
the definitive structure to refinance the initial bridge loan and
the resulting capital structure projected for CVRD in the next two
years,'' S&P said.  
 Vale said it will hold a press conference tomorrow in Toronto
at 9:45 a.m.  New York  time to detail the acquisition.  
 Nickel Supplies  
 Agnelli, 47, said acquiring Inco will allow Vale to gain
supplies of nickel to deliver alongside  iron ore  to steelmaking
customers such as ThyssenKrupp AG. Inco, which employees 10,000
people, has 19 percent of the world's nickel market. Russia's OAO
Norilsk is the No. 1 producer.  
 Nickel is a key element for the production of stainless steel,
which is used in a variety of products, from surgical instruments
and cutlery to skyscrapers and airplanes. The metal has doubled in
price this year and quadrupled since the 1990s.  
 Vale on Oct. 13 extended its offer for Inco to Oct. 23 to give
regulators in Canada time to review the bid. The offer of C$86
($75.57) a share for Toronto-based Inco was extended to midnight
Toronto time from an earlier Oct. 16 deadline.  
 ``It wasn't our first choice but that's the way it goes,''
said  John Kinsey , who helps manage $800 million at Caldwell
Securities Ltd. in Toronto and tendered Inco shares to Vale. ``CVRD
was the only one standing at the end.''  
 Inco spent $93 million this year for legal and investment
banking fees related to its failed takeover bid for rival Falcon
bridge  Ltd. and competing bids from Phelps Dodge Corp., Teck Co
minco Ltd. and Vale, the company said in a regulatory filing.  
 Toronto-Based  
 To demonstrate to Canadian regulators that the acquisition
would benefit the country, Vale pledged to base its global nickel
division, called CVRD Inco, in Toronto. A Canadian chief operating
officer will be appointed to head CVRD Inco, along with a senior
executive team comprised largely of Canadians, Vale said in a
statement on Oct. 19.  
 The company will have ``a mandate to expand its businesses as
a global leader in the nickel industry,'' Agnelli said in that
statement.  
 ``CVRD will transfer management responsibility for its
interest in existing and future nickel projects to CVRD Inco,
including its interest in the Onca Puma and Vermelho projects in
Brazil,'' Vale said in the statement.  
 The miner, which employees 10,000 people, said there will be
no layoffs at Canadian operating facilities for at least three
years, ``and in any event total employment at such facilities will
not fall below 85 percent of current levels.''  
 Asset Battle  
 With the Inco purchase, Vale gets nickel mines in Canada,
including at Voisey's Bay in Newfoundland and the nickel-rich
Sudbury Basin in Ontario, as well as a majority stake in PT Inco in
Indonesia, which has nickel mines and plants.  
 In Canada alone, Inco said it had 220 million metric tons of
total proven and probable mineral reserves, according to its annual
report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        