-- Aliyev Touts Future Azeri-Russian Gas Sales, as Nabucco Stalls
-- Torrey Clark
-- 2009-04-18T18:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-04-18/aliyev-touts-future-azeri-russian-gas-sales-as-nabucco-stalls.html

          
          
             Azerbaijan  is interested in signing
a natural-gas agreement with  Russia  that would allow it to boost
output and exports to Europe as the Nabucco pipeline project
remains “at a standstill,” President  Ilham Aliyev  said.  
 The neighbors have the “political will” to agree on a
contract, after Russia approached Azerbaijan a year ago about
buying gas, Aliyev said in an interview broadcast on Russia’s
Vesti state television channel today.  
 “Most important is to come to an agreement about transit
and sales between Russia and Azerbaijan and move forward,”
Aliyev said. “One of the advantages is gas transportation
infrastructure already exists that can ship 5 billion cubic
meters without additional investment.”  
 Aliyev and Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  met yesterday
in Moscow to discuss the potential gas agreement, which could
reduce the threat of Azerbaijan becoming a rival to OAO Gazprom,
Russia’s state gas exporter, in European markets via Nabucco.
Azerbaijan lacks a direct link to Europe and has been unable to
agree with  Turkey  on additional supply and transit terms.  
 “It’s a shame that we can’t produce the gas we have
because transit issues haven’t been resolved,” Aliyev said.
“Azerbaijan has the potential to produce more than 20 billion
cubic meters of gas. We can raise output quickly.”  
 The second phase of the StatoilHydro ASA-led Shah Deniz
project could add between 12 billion and 14 billion cubic meters
of gas output in three to five years once a market is found and
transit for the fuel ensured, he said.  
 The Nabucco pipeline project, backed by the European Union
and the U.S., has sought guarantees of Azeri fuel to diversify
purchases away from Russia. Gazprom supplies a quarter of
 Europe ’s gas.  
 “The way things are going today, it’s hard to say when the
project will moved from a standstill and who will do that,”
Aliyev said. “In the event the Nabucco pipeline is built, of
course, we could supply some of our gas there for good
conditions.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        