-- KKR Quits Coles Buyout Group, Boosting Wesfarmers Bid
-- Joyce Moullakis
-- 2007-05-29T07:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-05-29/kkr-quits-coles-buyout-group-boosting-wesfarmers-bid-update6-.html

          
          
             Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.
abandoned its nine-month pursuit of Coles Group Ltd., Australia's
second-largest retailer, boosting the prospects  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WESDA) 's
A$19.7 billion ($16.1 billion) offer will succeed.  
 New York-based KKR withdrew from a buyout group it formed to
bid for the retailer after CVC Asia Pacific quit yesterday, Ian Smith, a spokesman for the firms, said today. Coles' bigger rival,
Woolworths Ltd., is in talks to join the remaining partners of
the group, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  
 KKR and CVC withdrew after gaining two weeks of access to
the financial data of Coles, whose latest quarterly  sales growth 
was the lowest on record. Coles stock tumbled as investors bet
Wesfarmers, the nation's biggest home improvement retailer, won't
have to raise its record bid for an Australian company.  
 ``This changes the landscape, as it makes the bidding less
competitive and may result in a lower price for Coles,'' said
Tony Pearce, who helps manage the equivalent of $3.5 billion at
Legg Mason Asset Management in  Melbourne , including Coles stock.  
 Coles stock slumped 73 cents, or 4.2 percent, to A$16.65 at
the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in Sydney. Today's fall, the
largest in seven months, wiped A$875 million off Coles' market
value, with the company now worth A$20 billion. Shares of
Wesfarmers rose 25 cents, or 0.7 percent, to A$38.04.  
 Final Bids  
 Melbourne-based Coles, the owner of 3,000 supermarkets,
liquor stores and discount outlets, has called for final bids in
the week starting June 25, with Wesfarmers currently examining
the retailer's financial records.  
 The Perth-based owner of home-improvement chain Bunnings
plans to keep Coles' office supply and discount department stores
and spin off the grocery business to a venture with its buyout
partners.  
 The decision by KKR and CVC to withdraw leaves TPG Inc.,
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Carlyle Group and Bain Capital LLC in the
bidding group. The four remaining buyout firms will discuss their
concerns about the deterioration of the business with Coles
management and its advisers over the next two days before
deciding whether to proceed with a bid, two people with knowledge
of the matter said today.  
 Sydney-based Woolworths, Australia's largest retailer, is
yet to make a decision on whether to join the offer, the two
people said, declining to be identified because details of the
talks aren't public.  
 Woolworths Interest  
 Woolworths Chief Executive Officer Michael Luscombe said
April 17 he may bid for some of Coles' non-food assets, which
include the Target discount department store chain and
Officeworks stationery and business supplies division.  
 Woolworths, the country's biggest grocer, can't buy Coles'
second-ranked supermarkets unit because of antitrust issues.  
 Jim Cooper, a Melbourne-based spokesman for Coles, declined
to comment. Ian Smith declined to comment further on the process.
Fiona Breen, a spokeswoman for Sydney-based Woolworths, wasn't
immediately available to comment.  
 The KKR-led group first bid A$14.50 a  share  for the retailer
in September, then sweetened the offer to A$15.25. Both offers
were rejected by Coles as too low.  
 The retailer put itself up for sale in February after Chief
Executive Officer John Fletcher slashed the profit forecasts used
to justify his rejection of the KKR bids.  
 Building Stake  
 Wesfarmers paid A$16.47 a share to build a 12 percent stake
in the retailer before announcing its cash and stock bid in April
at the same price. An offer to buy more stock at A$17.25 was
rebuffed by investors, the Australian Financial Review reported
May 2.  
 The KKR group said April 10 it was ``confident'' of matching
or beating Wesfarmers' offer.  
 ``Wesfarmers, with the structure of their bid and the stake
they hold, meant KKR would have to offer something like A$17.50
to get it across,'' Legg Mason's Pearce said. ``Wesfarmers had a
competitive advantage by ticking those boxes early so it doesn't
mean they are overpaying, but beating them would have been hard
and required a much higher price.''  
 By offering its own shares in the bid, Wesfarmers has an
advantage over buyout firms because investors accepting stock in
a takeover can defer potential capital gains taxes, something
that can't be done with an all-cash bid. Analysts at UBS AG
estimate the tax relief is worth 30 cents a share to Coles
investors.  
 KKR's move ``leaves Wesfarmers in a much stronger
position,'' said Atul Lele, who helps manage about $380 million
at White Funds Management in Sydney. The future of the group KKR
had led ``depends on whether the other members can raise the
funds,'' he said.  
 Slowing Growth  
 Coles on May 17 said sales growth slowed to 0.6 percent in
the 13 weeks ended April 13, ceding market share to Woolworths,
whose sales in the period climbed 8.8 percent.  
 CVC Asia quit the buyout group because of concerns about the
state of the retailer's business, the Australian newspaper said
yesterday.  
 ``The turnaround of Coles is not a two-year story, it's more
like a four-year story,'' said Legg Mason's Pearce. ``Some
private equity firms may not want to hang around that long.''  
 Credit-default swaps, used to speculate on Coles' ability to
repay its debt, declined as perceptions of the company's credit
quality improved. Five-year contracts based on $10 million of the
company's bonds fell to $64,000 from $73,000 yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Turnaround Potential  
 The Wesfarmers group, which also includes Macquarie Bank
Ltd.,  Australia 's largest securities firm, and buyout firms
Pacific Equity Partners and Permira Holdings Ltd., started due
diligence on Coles May 25.  
 Deutsche Bank AG and Melbourne-based Carnegie, Wylie & Co.
are advising Coles. Goldman Sachs JBWere Pty and UBS AG are
advising the KKR group. Wesfarmers is being advised by Gresham
Partners and Macquarie Bank.  
 TPG, formerly known as Texas Pacific Group, has demonstrated
the turnaround potential of Coles. In March it announced an 84
percent increase in first-half earnings at Myer, the department
store chain it bought from Coles last year for A$1.4 billion.  
 KKR agreed to sell Cleanaway Holdings Ltd. to Transpacific
Industries Ltd. on May 16 for A$1.25 billion, 11 months after
buying the business from Brambles Ltd. The Cleanaway purchase was
KKR's first transaction with a publicly traded Australian company.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Fenner in Sydney 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Moullakis in Sydney at 
 jmoullakis2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Scott  jscott14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Shoppers walk past the entrance of a Coles Group Ltd. supermarket in Sydney, on May 16, 2007.  Photographer: Andy Shaw/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
