-- Suntech Profit Rises 35% on Demand for Solar Power
-- Christopher Martin
-- 2007-05-29T20:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-05-29/suntech-profit-rises-35-on-demand-for-solar-power-update4-.html

          
          
             Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
fourth-largest maker of solar-power cells, said first-quarter
profit rose 35 percent on surging demand for the renewable energy
source .  
 Net income  rose to $26.1 million, or 16 cents a share, from
$19.3 million, or 12 cents, a year earlier, Suntech, based in
 China 's Jiangsu province, said today in a statement. Sales more
than doubled to $246.7 million from $89.9 million.  
 Worldwide solar-cell sales rose 41 percent to 2,500
megawatts last year, led by California and  Germany , which
increased incentives for rooftop installations on homes and
businesses, according to industry group Clean Edge. The group
forecast a quadrupling of the market to $69.3 billion by 2016.  
 ``We have captured most of the increase in demand because we
deliver the best quality cells and we do it on time,'' Chief
Executive Officer Zhengrong Shi said in an interview. Suntech has
contracts for its entire 2007 output and is taking orders for
2008, he said.  
 The company said the gross margin narrowed to 19 percent
from 30 percent as it was forced pay higher prices for silicon on
spot markets than under long-term contracts and had higher-cost
production in  Japan  from its acquisition of MSK Corp. in August.
The production was shut down in the first quarter.  
 Pressure on Shares  
 Suntech's  American depositary receipts  fell 70 cents, or 2
percent, to $34.56 in  New York  Stock Exchange composite  trading .
About 5.13 million ADRs shares changed hands, more than twice the
daily average over the past six months. The ADRs, each of which
represents one ordinary share, have more than doubled in value
since the initial public offering at $15 in December 2005.  
 ``Margins eroded a bit because of the MSK acquisition, and
that's put some pressure on their shares,'' said Michael Carboy,
an analyst at Signal Hill Capital Group in  San Francisco  who has
a ``buy'' rating on the shares and owns none. The results fell
short of Carboy's estimate of 19 cents a share.  
 First-quarter production of photovoltaic solar cells and
modules more than doubled to 64.7 megawatts, Suntech said. The
company raised its 2007 production forecast to 325 megawatts from
the 280 megawatts predicted in March. Manufacturing capacity is
expected to reach 480 megawatts by year-end.  
 The company will focus on expanding production rather than
marketing and installing solar panels, Shi said. ``We don't want
to compete with our customers,'' he said.  
 Suntech expects to complete construction next year of a
$45 million factory in China for production of thin-film solar
cells, which use less silicon, Shi said. Initial capacity of the
plant will be 50 megawatts, he said.  
 Subsidies  
 New government subsidies will help increase sales in  Italy ,
 Korea  and  Greece  by lowering the cost of installations, Shi said.
The U.S. House of Representatives is considering legislation
providing new subsidies for adding solar panels, he said.  
 ``If it passes, we will see the market boom in the U.S.,''
Shi said.  
 Sharp Corp. was the largest producer of solar cells last
year, followed by Q-Cells AG and Kyocera Corp.  
 (Suntech held a conference call this morning. A replay will
be available on the company's Web site at  http://www.suntech-power.com .)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Dieterich at 
 rdieterich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        