-- Analysts Hate These Five Stocks, So Buy Them Now: John Dorfman
-- John Dorfman
-- 2010-02-01T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-31/analysts-hate-these-five-stocks-so-buy-them-now-john-dorfman.html

          
          
             Wall Street analysts turn up their
noses at  Eli Lilly & Co.   
 On a scale where 1.0 is “sell,” 3.0 is “hold” and 5.0
is “buy,” Lilly rates only a 2.9. Five analysts say to buy
shares in the Indianapolis drugmaker, six say sell, and 12 duck
for cover with a neutral rating.  
 A 2.9 score might not seem too bad, but bear in mind that
brokerage houses have a positive bias. They are, after all, in
the business of selling stocks. The average rating for stocks on
the New York Stock Exchange is 3.8. Fully 87 percent of all U.S.
stocks with a market capitalization of more than $500 million
score higher than 3.0.  
 Lilly’s low rating doesn’t discourage me. In fact, I like
the company.  
 I prefer stocks that are unpopular. If most of the major
brokerage houses have already endorsed a stock, where will the
impetus come from for it to gain new fans? What’s more, when
earnings improve or temporary problems dissipate, such stocks
can garner analysts’ endorsements and attract capital.  
 Lilly is one of five stocks I recommend this week that
analysts couldn’t care less about.  
 Like other big pharmaceutical companies, Lilly has major
drugs with patents that will expire soon. Zyprexa, prescribed
for patients with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, accounts
for about one quarter of Lilly’s sales; its patent expires in
2011.  
 Patent Plight  
 Still, according to a March 2009 analysis by Zacks
Investment Research, Lilly’s patent plight is less severe than
that of some major competitors. Zacks estimates that  Merck & Co. 
will see about 35 percent of its 2012 revenue exposed to generic
competition and that  Pfizer Inc.  will lose  patents  on drugs
accounting for 40 percent of its 2012 sales.  
 Its genuine problems notwithstanding, I consider Lilly an
excellent value at its recent price of about $36, down from a
high of more than $100 a decade ago. The stock sells for only
eight times earnings. The dividend yield is 5.5 percent, and the
payout seems secure to me.  
 Investors fret about what they see as scanty new-drug
pipelines at all the big pharmaceutical companies. They worry
too much, I think. Lilly, for example, has about 60 drugs in
various stages of development.  
 Analysts hold  CNA Financial Corp.  in even greater disdain.
Only four analysts bother to cover the Chicago-based commercial
insurer, and none recommends it; there are three “hold”
ratings and one “sell.”  
 Low Expectations  
 CNA is unlikely to win any awards as the best-run insurance
company around. It has posted losses in four of the past 10
years, including 2008. That year it paid out $105.20 in claims
and expenses for every $100 it collected in premiums.  
 Why do I favor it, then? I recommend it because it is
cheap, and investor expectations are low. With the stock at
seven times the past four quarters’  earnings  and 0.7 times book
value (corporate net worth), there is ample room for positive
surprises.  
 Consider this oddity. CNA is 90 percent owned by  Loews
Corp. , a New York-based corporation controlled by the Tisch
family. CNA accounts for the majority of Loews’s revenue. Yet
Loews has a buy rating from most analysts, while CNA is endorsed
by none.  
 Andrew Tisch  and  James Tisch , who are CNA directors, both
bought CNA stock on the open market in November, as did  Joseph Rosenberg , chief investment strategist for Loews.  
 Pipeline Profits  
 Another big yawn, according to analysts, is  Enbridge Energy
Partners LP , a pipeline partnership based in Houston. Ten
analysts give it a neutral rating, with one “buy” and two
“sells.”  
 Enbridge, the biggest transporter of oil to the U.S. from
Alberta’s tar sands, has made a profit each year since 1992,
which is as far back as Bloomberg data on the company goes. The
stock sells for 13 times earnings and currently offers a
dividend yield of more than 7 percent.  
 Next up is  Lexmark International Inc.  of Lexington,
Kentucky, the second-largest U.S. maker of computer printers.
(Hewlett-Packard Co. is No. 1.) Lexmark has earned a profit
every year since 1994.  
 The bad news on Lexmark is that sales and earnings have
declined in the past five years. With the stock at nine times
earnings and less than 0.6 times revenue, it seems that
investors don’t expect much. Neither do analysts, who slap a 2.7
rating on the stock.  
 Riding the Recovery  
 The third quarter showed a glimmer of hope: Lexmark’s sales
ticked up, compared with the previous quarter. I think the stock
will be buoyed by the U.S. economic recovery that I believe is
in progress.  
 My final recommendation is St. Louis-based  Patriot Coal
Corp.  It is the fourth-largest eastern U.S. coal company, with
annualized revenue of about $2 billion.  
 The company’s stock-market value is just $1.5 billion, and
shares are trading for only 0.6 times revenue. Analysts give the
stock a kissing-your-sister grade of 2.9. I think it is more
exciting than that. In 2008, for example, the company earned a
33 percent return on shareholders’ equity, which is sparkling.  
 Lately that profit measure has subsided to about a 19
percent return, which I still consider good. I like the stock at
eight times earnings.  
 Disclosure note: I own shares of Merck personally and for
clients. A few of my clients own Pfizer. I have no long or short
positions in the other stocks discussed in this week’s column.  
 ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  
          
          


  


        