-- Double Dip Risk Rises After Inventory Blowout: Kevin Hassett
-- Kevin Hassett
-- 2010-02-01T02:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-31/double-dip-risk-rises-after-inventory-blowout-kevin-hassett.html

          
          
             When is quarterly gross domestic
product growth of almost 6 percent bad news? When it looks like
what was reported last week.  
 U.S. GDP increased 5.7 percent at the end of last year,
with more than half of that growth -- 3.4 percent --
attributable to changes in inventories. This astonishing impact
of inventory has ample historical precedent, and the bottom line
has terrible implications for 2010.  
 Inventories are a remarkable corner of the economy. They
are the goods and materials that companies keep on hand to make
sure that their operations run smoothly. They are the boxes of
food on shelves at the grocery store and the bins of metal parts
sitting next to the assembly line in a manufacturing plant.  
 Inventories were a big part of the story during the worst
of this recession, and that is nothing new. In a landmark  paper 
published in 1980, Princeton University economist  Alan Blinder 
found that inventories, while accounting for less than 1
percentage point of national output, accounted for 37 percent of
the fluctuations in output.  
 Since Blinder’s paper came out, inventories have held onto
their important role. Updating Blinder’s calculations through
the fourth quarter of last year, inventories have accounted for
about 34 percent of historical fluctuations in GDP since 1947.  
 Inventories are even more important during recessions. In
another paper, co-authored with Louis Maccini in 1991, Blinder
found that 87 percent of the decline in GDP from the peak to the
trough of the recession was attributable to inventories.  
 Hard to Predict  
 Something that constitutes a small share of GDP can have a
big impact on its overall volatility only if it is swinging
about wildly. Inventories fluctuate so much for a simple reason:
Predicting the future is really hard.  
 A firm tries to set its inventory level to match expected
future sales. It must balance the financial cost of carrying
inventoried items against the risk that customers might not find
the product they are looking for.  
 In good times, inventories are relatively easy to manage.
Demand grows a little bit each quarter, and firms have a good
idea what their future sales will be.  
 Around turning points, expectations can go horribly wrong,
and inventories are often the first sign that firms are being
surprised by their customers. A car manufacturer might expect
that it will sell 100 cars next month and set its production
accordingly. If sales fall short, the unsold cars sitting on the
lot represent inventory piling up. The manufacturer will likely
respond by cutting output, since it already has enough cars on
hand to meet next month’s sales.  
 Peek Into Future  
 In other words: If we see inventories piling up, firms may
need to adjust their future activity downward. On the other
hand, sales sometimes jump unexpectedly, driving inventories
below their desired levels. When that happens, we can expect
firms to ramp up production to replenish their stocks.  
 Since 1970, there have been nine quarters, like the last
one, when GDP grew by at least 3 percent and inventories
accounted for at least half of that growth. The history of those
quarters is hardly a favorable sign of what is in store.  
 Inventory spikes make for blowout quarters. In the nine
quarters with such spikes, the average growth rate was 6.6
percent and the average inventory contribution was 4.4 percent,
even higher than what was observed for last quarter.  
 Spikes also produce hangovers. The average growth rate in
the quarter after a spike was 0.9 percent, a whopping 5.7
percent lower. In the second quarter following a spike, the
average growth rate is just 1.6 percent.  
 More Bad News  
 To be sure, the inventory story is not the only red flag
right now. The unemployment rate in the U.S. is hovering around
10 percent and has shown little sign of recovery. In addition,
any positive effects of the economic stimulus are likely
dwindling. On top of that, the tax cuts enacted by President
 George W. Bush  are set to expire, and the U.S. deficit is so
high that even a subtle swing in interest rates can have major
negative budget implications.  
 Given those factors, we might consider ourselves lucky if
we experience only the typical decline in growth that follows an
inventory spike. In that case, first-quarter growth in 2010 will
be right around zero. If that happens, talk of a double-dip
recession will ignite.  
 Such talk probably should begin now.  
 ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at   khassett@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Feb. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Kevin Hassett, director of economic-policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute and a Bloomberg News columnist, talks with Lori Rothman about the outlook for the U.S. economy.
     Hassett says growth could approach zero in the first quarter of 2010. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
