-- Obama Needs to Take His Inside Politics Outside: Albert R. Hunt
-- 
-- 2010-01-31T16:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-31/obama-needs-to-take-his-inside-politics-outside-albert-r-hunt.html

          
          
             John Gardner, the estimable founder
of  Common Cause  and former secretary of health, education and
welfare, said one of the conditions for effectiveness in
Washington is to employ “inside-outside alliances.”  
 He was talking about citizen action. The need to walk that
line between outdoor politics, summoning public support with
some explanatory eloquence, and indoor politics, making the
essential compromises, cutting the deals with legislators and
vested interests, that are the essence of most vibrant
democracies. This is even more applicable to governing.  
 President  Barack Obama ’s inability to practice this art
over the past year is a major factor in some of his
difficulties. While winning legislative victories on the
economic stimulus and health care, the administration allowed
the opposition to define the measures.  
 “There’s a disconnect,” says Bill Carrick, a top
Democratic strategist in  California . “They’re doing some good
things and people don’t know it.”  
 This isn’t simply a matter of message or public relations.
Obama advisers delude themselves when they say that most of
their setbacks stem from process issues such as not televising
the health-care deliberations on C-Span.  
 Obama has saturated the media with interviews -- far more
and diverse than anything his predecessors did -- and the public
arena with speeches, some superb. Yet he has failed to convey
any overarching vision; his initiatives aren’t centrally
connective.  
 Defining the Message  
 Thus, the stimulus bill, to most Americans, was about
parochial pork-barrel projects, not about the millions of jobs
saved and the more severe economic dislocation it avoided. To be
sure, the stimulus was bracketed between and associated with the
 U.S. Treasury ’s Troubled Asset Relief Program, which most
Americans see as an unconscionable bailout of Wall Street fat
cats, and the rescue of the  auto industry , which remains
unpopular though it’s turning out pretty well.  
 To many in the public, the health-care bill was more a
matter of death panels or special deals for Senator  Ben Nelson 
and  Nebraska  or labor unions than about insuring 30 million more
Americans, or ending discrimination against people with pre-
existing conditions, or, most important, improving the economy
and creating jobs.  
 Deals always are cut to grease legislation, the bigger the
spending or tax measure, the more special provisions. The issue
is, which dominates: the pieces or the whole?  
 Reagan Tax Cuts  
 A telling example is  Ronald Reagan ’s tax cuts in 1981, the
centerpiece of that president’s agenda. He proposed huge but
simple across-the-board tax reductions intended to spur economic
growth. A congressional bidding war ensued and the bill was
laden with so many corporate loopholes and special favors that
budget director  David Stockman  later said “the hogs were really
feeding” as it “just got out of control.” The end product was
so bad that Reagan had to increase taxes each of the next three
years.  
 Yet that wasn’t the message conveyed. Reagan’s optimism in
articulating the purpose overwhelmed any criticism of the
particulars.  
 By contrast, the Obama White House, which was intimately
involved in shaping the particulars of both the stimulus and the
health-care bill, became so obsessed with the inside game that
it lost sight of the vision or the narrative. Supporters had
little idea what they were supposed to be supporting.  
 Health-Care Plan  
 Many Americans embrace the concept of overhauling health
care and many of the particulars of the Democrats’ plan. It is
the vague Obama plan, as defined by his opponents, that worries
them, even in  Massachusetts .  
 This discord, or disconnect, is more important for the
White House to try to address than the other suggested changes
to the Obama presidency.  
 The political left insists the problem is the president has
lost his moorings and needs to energize the liberal base. The
reality is that Obama is no left-winger, and liberals lack a
majority in the Congress and the country.  
 The other side says, move to the center, eschew those far-
out policies. This is equally false. The health-care measure
rejects any government option and is embraced, in varying
degrees, by the drug and insurance industries and the medical
associations. They aren’t members of any liberal cabal; neither
is Obama; he’s a pragmatic progressive.  
 No Time to Wait  
 Well, some say, then he took on too much; he should have
waited to take on health care. The current measure’s fate hangs
in the balance. But if Obama had waited there is little chance
any major effort would have been enacted in his presidency,
whether it’s one or two terms. Ask former President  George W. Bush  about entitlements.  
 The Obama slide has little to do with ideology or a too-
ambitious agenda. Is a reflection of both the difficulty of the
situation he inherited and the administration’s inability to
balance conflicts, which is what effective leaders do.  
 In few places is this value more necessary than the
approach to big banks and  Wall Street . Anti-corporate populism
is a bankrupt policy for governance and often has a short
political shelf life. Still, Obama can ill afford to cede the
very legitimate populist anger over bailouts and bonuses and
back to business as usual on Wall Street.  
 On this, he is off to a good start by channeling this
anxiety into more than just a populist rant with the looming
presence of Paul A. Volcker and the “Volcker rule” on limiting
banks’ risks.  
 State of the Union  
 The president threaded some of these needles in his State
of the Union speech last week, adhering to his basic principles
and articulating them well, while offering some concessions to
political opponents. It won’t be easy to build on that over the
next few months.  
 It is harder, the Obama camp is right, because they
inherited from the  Bush administration  a terrible mess: a
fragile economy, out-of-control budget deficits and a
dysfunctional and dangerously expensive health-care system.
Recently, one top Obama aide lamented to the president how much
better it would be to govern in good times.  
 “If it were good times,” Obama responded, “we wouldn’t
be here.”  
 ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        