-- `Sell the Rallies' Before S&P 500 Correction, UBS Says: Technical Analysis
-- Julie Cruz
-- 2010-07-14T15:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/-sell-the-rallies-before-s-p-500-correction-ubs-says-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             Investors should “sell the
rallies” as the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  will soon enter a
strong correction, according to technical analysts at UBS AG.  
 The U.S. benchmark index will fall to between 944 and 1,000
at the end of the third quarter, UBS analysts  Michael Riesner 
and Marc Mueller wrote in a note dated yesterday. The gauge was
little changed at 1,094.98 as of 11:15 a.m. in New York, halting
six days of gains, the longest winning streak since April 15.  
 “Although the rally is going higher than initially
thought, our negative medium-term view is unchanged and we would
use strength to sell instead of chasing the market on the
upside,” Zurich-based Riesner said in a phone interview today.
“In the very short-term the sharp rally of the last six
sessions shows that the market is getting increasingly
overbought.”  
 With the  index rising  back above 1,042, a head-and-
shoulders formation has been negated, along with the “worst-
case scenario” of falling to 900 and entering a bear market,
according to Riesner. A head-and-shoulders pattern occurs when
share prices form three consecutive peaks, with the middle being
the highest. The start of a decline is signaled when prices fall
below a support level in line with the low points between the
peaks.  
 “We will see a more complex bounce pattern, which suggests
that after a short set-back this week we could see a second
bounce attempt into later July before the start of another
significant tactical down-leg into later Q3,” the analysts
wrote in the note.  
 In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        