-- Action-Figure Jindal, No-Party Crist Gain on BP Spill Response
-- Kim Chipman
-- 2010-07-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/action-figure-jindal-no-party-crist-rebound-in-polls-on-bp-spill-response.html

          
          
             Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal  says
he delivered an ultimatum on the Obama administration’s handling
of the  BP Plc  oil spill to Vice President  Joe Biden : “Lead or
get out of the way.”  
 The Republican recounted the June 29 conversation, held
during a Biden visit to the Gulf Coast, to reporters at a
subsequent press conference. Jindal, whose state has been hit
hardest by the disaster, has been a vocal critic of the federal
response, and it’s paying off. His approval rating has jumped as
much as 10 percentage points in state polls.  
 Florida Governor  Charlie Crist , running for the U.S. Senate
as an independent, also has gotten a lift from his reaction to
the spill, helping him move into a statistical tie with  Marco Rubio . Rubio’s lead of as much as 34 points had forced Crist out
of the Republican primary earlier this year.  
 “Disasters like oil spills, hurricanes, tornadoes, they
are the ultimate test for governors,” said  Jennifer Duffy ,
senior editor at the nonpartisan Cook Political Report in
Washington. “Both Crist and Jindal seem to have passed the
test.”  
 The Obama administration rejects any suggestion that it
hasn’t taken a lead role in the response, Biden spokeswoman
 Elizabeth Alexander  said. “We are leading,” she said. “We are
overseeing the largest response to an environmental disaster in
U.S. history.”  
 Jindal, who at 39 is the youngest U.S. governor, is seen as
an “action-figure governor on the front lines” in his handling
of the spill, said  John Maginnis , a Baton Rouge political author
and journalist, referring to Jindal’s frequent flyovers, boat
trips and meetings with local officials and cleanup crews.  
 More Popular  
 Jindal’s approval rating among Louisianans rose 10 points
from April, when the leak began, to 74 percent in a Rasmussen
Poll of 500 adults conducted June 24. The margin of error was
plus-or-minus 4.5 percentage points.  
 “He’s one of the very few politicians getting more popular
in what’s a very anti-politician environment,” Tom Jensen,
director of  Public Policy Polling , a Democrat-oriented firm in
Raleigh, North Carolina, said in an interview.  
 Jindal’s approach to the spill has helped him rebound
politically following his widely panned response to President
 Barack Obama ’s first address to a joint session of Congress in
February 2009.  
 “He seemed more like a high school student giving a
valedictory speech than a potential future leader of the
party,” Philip Klein wrote at the time on a blog of the
American Spectator, a magazine that shares Jindal’s political
views.  
 Jindal’s performance on the spill is “redeeming,” Duffy
said. “ The speech becomes an aberration and not a defining
moment.”  
 Crist Against Rubio  
 Crist, in a July 6 Rasmussen Poll, was two points behind
Rubio with 34 percent of the favorable responses in a three-way
general-election race, within the survey’s margin of error of
4.5 percentage points. U.S. Representative  Kendrick Meek , a
Democrat from the North Miami area, finished third with 15
percent.  
 In an earlier survey by the Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute, taken as concern grew that the spill was headed for
Florida’s northwestern Panhandle, the 53-year-old Crist topped
Rubio 37 percent to 34 percent. The June 1-17 poll had a margin
of error of plus-or-minus 2.9 percentage points.  
 “When the spill first happened, Crist’s job approval
ratings went up,” said  Scott Rasmussen , president of Rasmussen
Research, based in Asbury Park, New Jersey.  
 Quiet Walk  
 Jindal and Crist, who both declined requests for
interviews, have taken different approaches to the spill. While
Jindal lambasts federal officials before television cameras,
demanding more dredging to build barriers against the oil, Crist
has been less confrontational.  
 When Obama visited Florida last month, TV shots showed
Crist and the president walking along Pensacola Beach quietly
discussing the crisis. The scene might have been unthinkable two
months earlier, before Crist decided to run on the November
ballot as the “no party” candidate.  
 “If Crist were still a Republican there’s no way he would
go near Obama,” said  Aubrey Jewett , a political scientist at
the University of Central Florida in Orlando, in an interview.
Rubio faulted Crist for supporting Democrat Obama’s stimulus
measure last year, and for literally embracing the president
when he visited the state.  
 Crist has won voter approval by coaxing the president to
provide more help for Florida’s beaches and its tourism-
dependent economy, said political scientist  Susan MacManus .  
 “Voters are seeing a governor who is leveraging the
president, not someone cozying up,” said MacManus, a professor
at the University of South Florida in Tampa, in an interview.  
 Ephemeral Gains?  
 While Crist is seeking a state constitutional ban on oil
exploration off of Florida, where anti-drilling sentiment has
long run high, Jindal has denounced the Obama administration’s
moratorium on deepwater drilling as economically devastating.  
 Jindal also has successfully pushed federal officials for
approval to build sand barriers in an attempt to safeguard the
coast from oil.  
 “I thank God for Bobby Jindal,” said Billy Nungesser,
Republican president of Plaquemines Parish, the largest in
Louisiana and the one with the most exposure to the coast.
“He’s made things happen a lot quicker.”  
 Jindal and Crist may see the benefits of being in charge
become liabilities should developments cause voters to direct
their frustrations closer to home, said Bernie Pinosat, an
opinion researcher who was an aide to former Senator  Bennett Johnston , a Louisiana Democrat.  
 “If and when we lose 10,000, 20,000, 30,000 jobs, there
better be a solution,” Pinosat said in an interview. “People
won’t blame BP and Obama. They will be looking at them.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Washington at   KChipman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Governor of Louisiana Bobby Jindal speaks during a conference in New Orleans. Photographer: Patrick Semansky/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
