-- AgriBank May Rise on Shanghai Debut After $19.2 Billion IPO
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-15T00:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/agricultural-bank-may-rise-on-shanghai-stock-debut-after-19-2-billion-ipo.html

          
          
             Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  may
overtake local rival  Bank of China Ltd.  on its trading debut
today to become the world’s seventh-largest lender by  market
value , according to analysts and investors.  
 Shares in China’s largest bank by customers will likely
gain 6 percent on their first day in Shanghai, the average
estimate of eight analysts and fund managers surveyed by
Bloomberg shows. Agricultural Bank sold shares in China at 2.68
yuan each as part of an initial public offering that valued the
company at $126 billion.  
 Chairman  Xiang Junbo  braved the steepest  quarterly drop  in
Chinese stocks in two years to raise $19.2 billion in Shanghai
and Hong Kong. Domestic investors  ordered  more than 10 times the
stock available to them, betting Xiang will be able to boost
profit by lowering a cost-to-income ratio that’s 20 percent
higher than the average among China’s publicly traded banks.  
 “AgriBank should be glad to pull off a deal like this in
such a weak market sentiment,” said Xu Jiulong, who helps
manage $1.3 billion at Great Wall Fund Management Co. in
Shenzhen and bought shares in the IPO. “A decent gain on the
debut would be the perfect icing on the cake.”  
 Trading  in Hong Kong starts on July 16. The Hong Kong stock
may climb about 5 percent on debut from the HK$3.20 IPO price,
based on the average of seven estimates.  
 Valuation Discount  
 Agricultural Bank’s Shanghai price represents 1.55 times
end-2010 book value as estimated by the IPO underwriters. That
compares with 1.82 times for  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. , 1.77 times for  China Construction Bank Corp ., and
1.51 times for  Bank of China Ltd . In Hong Kong, Agricultural
Bank’s offer price represents a 17 percent discount to the
average among the three rivals, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 The  MSCI World Index  has added 5.8 percent since
Agricultural Bank priced its shares on July 6 as investors
bought stocks trading near the cheapest levels in 16 months. The
 Shanghai Composite Index  is up 2.5 percent in the same period.
The gauge slumped 23 percent in the second quarter, the biggest
drop since the first three months on 2008.  
 Agricultural Bank’s IPO, set to become the world’s biggest
ever if the company exercises an option to expand the Hong Kong
part of the sale, makes China home to four of the 10 largest
lenders globally by market value. ICBC, which completed a  record
$21.9 billion IPO  in 2006, tops the list at $221 billion.  
 Drawing Attention  
 Executives at Agricultural Bank and other Chinese financial
officials have “guaranteed” shares will rise on its first day
in Shanghai today and also in its Hong Kong debut, the Financial
Times reported, without naming the officials or executives.  
 Agricultural Bank is the last major Chinese bank to go
public, wrapping up a decade-long overhaul of the nation’s
banking industry that cost an estimated $650 billion.  Bank of
Communications Co. , Construction Bank, Bank of China and ICBC
sold shares between June 2005 and October 2006.  
 The listing will “bring more money to the region,” said
 Alex Au , Hong Kong-based managing director of Richland Capital
Management Ltd., who bought shares in the IPO. “At least some
international investors will pay more attention to Hong Kong and
China stocks again.”  
 ICBC shares were little changed in Shanghai yesterday,
while Construction Bank added 1.1 percent and Bank of China
climbed 0.6 percent.  
 Balancing Act  
 Slowing economic growth  will make it tougher for Xiang to
close the profitability gap with those rivals, said  Zhang Jixiu ,
a Beijing-based analyst at Hong Yuan Securities Co. China’s
gross domestic product will likely expand 9.25 percent in 2011,
down from 10.1 percent this year, a survey of economists shows.  
 Agricultural Bank earned 65 billion yuan last year. Bank of
China, with similar-sized assets and 40 percent fewer  employees ,
posted profit of 81 billion yuan.  
 Xiang has an opportunity to boost profit by stripping out
excess costs, said  Fu Lichun , a Beijing-based analyst at
Southwest Securities Co. Complicating that task is the bank’s
role as a provider of credit in China’s poorer rural areas,
where loans are less profitable and more likely to default.  
 Agricultural Bank’s cost-to-income ratio was 43.4 percent
in 2009, compared with 33.2 percent for ICBC, 33.1 percent at
Construction Bank and 41 percent at Bank of China. Revenue per
branch, at 9.47 million yuan last year, was less than half of
what the three competitors earned on that basis.  
 “There’s lots of room for cost-cutting following the IPO,
just as the predecessors did,” Fu said. “The challenge for the
bank is how to balance its policy service with the commercial
business. I don’t think they’ve figured that out yet.”  
 Loan Concerns  
 More than half of Agricultural Bank’s almost 24,000 outlets
are in less developed countryside areas.  
 Investors concerned that last year’s  record  loan growth
will lead to a surge in defaults may prefer cost-cutting to
expansion. The government has ordered banks to reduce new
lending by 22 percent to 7.5 trillion yuan this year.  
 “Growth is not something I want to see from the banks,”
said  Michael Werner , a senior analyst at Sanford C Bernstein &
Co. “We saw that in the U.S., we saw that in Europe and we all
know what happened there. Even this year’s loan growth is not
sustainable without having significant credit quality issues
down the road.”  
 -- Luo Jun . With assistance from  Zhao Yidi  and  Li Yanping  in
Beijing,  Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong and  Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo.
Editors:  Philip Lagerkranser ,  Joost Akkermans   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
 Luo Jun  in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. chairman Xiang Junbo. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Vikas Pershad, chief executive officer at Chicago-based hedge fund Veda Investments LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his investment strategy for Chinese and Indian stocks.
     Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. may overtake local rival Bank of China Ltd. on its trading debut today to become the world’s seventh-largest lender by market value, according to analysts and investors. Pershad also discusses the outlook for U.S. and European stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Lewis Wan, chief investment officer at Pride Investments Group Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s planned initial public offering and the outlook for China's banking industry.
     Agricultural Bank set a price range for the Shanghai part of its initial public offering that will allow it to raise as much as $20.1 billion, according to a company statement. The Beijing-based bank may offer 22.2 billion shares in Shanghai at 2.52 yuan to 2.68 yuan apiece, it said. Agricultural Bank last week priced shares in the Hong Kong part of its IPO at HK$2.88 to HK$3.48 each. Wan, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses China's economy and stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
