-- Italian Stocks: Fiat, Finmeccanica, Interpump, Saipem, STMicro Are Active
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-07-14T15:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/aicon-conafi-enel-and-telecom-italia-may-move-italian-equity-preview.html

          
          
             Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB  Index
fell 47.48, or 0.2 percent, to 20,804.37, ending a six-session
gain, in Milan.  
 The following stocks were among the most active in the
Italian market today.  
 Atlantia SpA  (ATL IM), Italy’s largest toll highway
operator, fell 17 cents, or 1.1 percent, to 15.54 euros.
Standard & Poor’s affirmed its A- long-term and A-2 short-term
corporate credit ratings on the company. The rating company
revised its outlook to “negative” from “stable.”  
 Buzzi Unicem SpA  (BZU IM) lost for a second day this week,
falling 10.5 cents, or 1.3 percent, to 8.27 euros. Intermonte
Sim SpA trimmed its price estimate on Italy’s second-biggest
cement maker to 8 euros from 8.5 euros. The brokerage kept an
“underperform” rating, saying in a note that “even if volumes
in many markets have reached 10-year lows, we fear that the
consensus estimate for a sharp rebound in western markets are
too optimistic, especially for the U.S. and Italy.”  
 Finmeccanica SpA  (FNC IM) dropped 15.5 cents, or 1.7
percent, to 8.87 euros, paring yesterday’s increase. Morgan
Stanley downgraded the defense company to “underweight” from
“overweight.” The brokerage cited “sustained pressure on
defense budgets” in a note on the aerospace and defense
industry.  
 Interpump Group SpA  (IP IM) rose 7.25 cents, or 1.8
percent, to 4.2 euros. Banca Akros reiterated an “accumulate”
rating on the world’s biggest maker of high-performance pumps
because the rate of its sales growth is accelerating.  
 Luxottica Group SpA  (LUX IM) retreated 39 cents, or 2
percent, to 19.64 euros, a second decline this week. UBS AG
removed its “short-term buy” recommendation on the world’s
largest maker of eyeglasses, while keeping a “neutral” rating
on a 12-month basis. The brokerage said in a note that
“accelerating second-quarter growth seems to be discounted in
current valuation.”  
 STMicroelectronics NV  (STM IM) surged 18 cents, or 2.7
percent, to 6.93 euros, its highest level in about three weeks.
Intel Corp., adding to evidence that the global economic
recovery is taking hold, increased its profit forecast for the
year to a record, saying that corporations had resumed their
spending on computers.  
 Separately, ASML Holding NV, Europe’s largest maker of
semiconductor equipment, posted a better-than-estimated second-
quarter profit.  
 UniCredit SpA  (UCG IM) dropped 1.75 cents, or 0.8 percent,
to 2.07 euros. “We believe the recent rally in growth stocks
will be short-lived,” analyst  Andrew Lim  at Matrix Corporate
Capital LLP said in an e-mail to clients today. He kept a
“negative stance on peripheral Europe” and reiterated a
“sell” rating on Italy’s biggest bank.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        