-- AIG Chairman Resigns After Dispute With CEO Benmosche
-- Hugh Son
-- 2010-07-15T00:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/aig-chairman-golub-resigns-after-dispute-with-benmosche-over-aia-unit-sale.html

          
          
             American International Group Inc. 
Chairman  Harvey Golub  stepped down from the bailed-out insurer
after feuding with Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  over
the stalled divestiture of an Asia division.  
 Golub was replaced as chairman by  Steve Miller , 68, an AIG
director, the firm said yesterday in a statement. Benmosche had
threatened during a June 25 board meeting to resign unless Golub
leaves, according to two people with knowledge of the dispute.
Golub and the board had rebuffed Benmosche by rejecting
Prudential Plc’s reduced bid for the Asia unit and pushing for a
public offering of the business, the people said.  
 “Asking the board to choose between us would be an
abdication of my responsibility to lead,” Golub, 71, said in a
letter yesterday to  George Miles , an AIG director. “I’m
resigning for the simple reason I believe it’s easier to replace
a chairman than a CEO.”  
 Golub, the former American Express Co. CEO, became the
board’s fifth chairman since 2005 when he joined New York-based
AIG in 2009 with the approval of trustees overseeing the
government’s  majority stake  in the firm. AIG split the chairman
and CEO posts last year after  Edward Liddy  stepped down from
both jobs, saying the dual tasks were too much for one person.  
 Miller was CEO of auto-parts maker Delphi Corp. when it
filed for bankruptcy protection in 2005 and is the ex-chief
financial officer of Chrysler Corp. Last year, he joined the
board of AIG, which is selling assets to repay a $182.3 billion
government rescue.  
 ‘Strong Momentum’  
 “AIG has established strong momentum over the last year,”
Miller said in the statement. “We remain fully committed to
delivering on AIG’s core priorities: repaying taxpayers, meeting
all of the  company’s obligations  to its various stakeholders,
and restructuring the company so that it emerges as a smaller,
more focused enterprise worthy of investor confidence.”  
 Golub’s departure will increase Benmosche’s influence, said
 Gary Wolfer , senior vice president and chief economist at
Univest Wealth Management & Trust Services, who said he is a
bondholder of two AIG subsidiaries. Wolfer said Benmosche was
right to push for a sale of the unit rather than an IPO.  
 The resignation “clears the deck” for Benmosche, said
Wolfer. “Having a clearer field, it’s going to be the Benmosche
Show going forward.”  
 IPO Planned  
 AIG had planned an initial public offering of the Asia
unit, AIA Group Ltd., earlier this year until Prudential agreed
in March to buy the business. After Prudential investors balked
at the $35.5 billion price, the board rejected a reduced bid
that Benmosche had supported, the people said.  
 AIG is again proceeding with plans to hold an IPO of the
division, according to a person with knowledge of the situation,
who declined to be identified because discussions were private.
The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that the insurer’s
board discussed plans to hold an offering later this year.  Mark Herr , a spokesman for the company, declined to comment.  
 The board improved AIG “from a company being dissolved to
one on the cusp of having an implementable strategy to pay back
the government and stand on its own,” Golub said in his
resignation letter.  
 AIG owes about $24 billion on a Federal Reserve  credit line 
and more than $49 billion to the Treasury Department, which
holds a preferred stake. The company turned over a stake of
almost 80 percent to the U.S. as part of its 2008 rescue.  
 Restructuring Experience  
 “We welcome Steve Miller,” said Deputy Treasury Secretary
 Neal Wolin  said in a separate statement. “His extensive
corporate restructuring experience will serve both AIG and the
taxpayers very well.” The Federal Reserve Bank of New York is
“confident” in AIG’s management, the regulator said in a
statement. Miller was unavailable for comment, AIG said.  
 Maurice “Hank” Greenberg  was chairman and CEO before
stepping down in 2005 amid regulatory probes.  Frank Zarb  and
then  Robert Willumstad  became chairman. Willumstad later became
CEO too and was forced out of both jobs by the U.S. after AIG
agreed to the federal bailout in 2008. Liddy held both jobs
until August 2009.  
 Benmosche, 66, had told employees at an Aug. 11, 2009,
meeting that he would focus on operations and asset sales while
Golub would work with lawmakers.  
 Golub and Benmosche shared the belief that federal limits
on executive pay were hindering the company’s recovery. Golub
wrote to shareholders in a Feb. 26  letter  that Obama
administration restrictions make “little business sense.”
Benmosche previously threatened in November 2009 to quit because
of limits on what he could pay his top lieutenants, according to
a person familiar with the matter.  
 The board was expanded to 13 members in April when the
Treasury picked  Donald H. Layton  and  Ronald A. Rittenmeyer . The
Treasury was allowed to add directors after AIG skipped dividend
payments on the government’s holdings for four quarters.  
 “The workload required of the board is as high as I’ve
ever seen in any company, and is likely to continue for some
time,” Golub said in the letter to shareholders.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Harvey Golub, chairman of American International Group Inc. speaksduring a conference in New York. Photographer: Chip East/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg’s James Sterngold discusses American International Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer Robert Benmosche's threat to resign unless Harvey Golub, chairman of the bailed-out insurer, leaves the firm.
     During a June 25 meeting of New York-based AIG’s board, Benmosche demanded more control over the divestiture of the company’s main Asia unit, including making top-level management changes, said two people with knowledge of the matter. Sterngold talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg’s Television’s “insideTrack.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
