-- AIG Said to Weigh Handing Over Stake in Rescue Vehicles to Repay U.S. Debt
-- Hugh Son
-- 2010-07-14T14:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/aig-said-to-weigh-handing-over-stake-in-rescue-vehicles-to-repay-u-s-debt.html

          
          
             American International Group Inc.  is
considering repaying part of its U.S. bailout by handing over
 stakes  in the mortgage-linked bonds that pushed the firm to the
brink of collapse, said three people with knowledge of the plan.  
 The assets are contained in Maiden Lane II and Maiden Lane
III, entities created in 2008 as part of the U.S. effort to
remove toxic securities from the firm. AIG’s proposal reflects
the insurer’s confidence in the rebound of these holdings, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the plan
hasn’t been approved. AIG valued the stakes at $6.2 billion as
of March 31, $900 million more than at the end of 2009.  
 “The only reason they look good now is because the Fed has
ramped up the market with its policies,” said  Christopher Whalen , managing director of Torrance, California-based
Institutional Risk Analytics. As long as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  “is willing to print money, as he has
been, the Maiden Lanes will do just fine.”  
 Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 66, has said AIG
would pay down a Federal Reserve credit line with the planned
divestitures of two non-U.S. life divisions and then turn to its
Treasury Department obligations. The New York-based insurer
hired  Citigroup Inc.  and Bank of America Corp. to explore
options to repay loans within AIG’s $182.3 billion bailout.  
 AIG has been in talks with Treasury about the potential
plan, one of the people said. Treasury considers the proposal in
its early stages, according to the person. The U.S. received an
almost 80 percent  stake  in AIG after its initial 2008 rescue.  
 $751 Million Gain  
 Under terms of the deal removing mortgage-backed securities
from its balance sheet, AIG contributed $6 billion to fund the
Maiden Lane entities and is entitled to a share of proceeds
after the Fed is repaid the  more than $40 billion  it loaned. In
a May regulatory filing, AIG said that it expects to receive
payments in excess of its initial investment in Maiden Lane.  
 The insurer booked a $751 million gain on its stake in
Maiden Lane III and a $160 million gain on Maiden Lane II in the
first quarter as the securities rebounded, compared with
combined losses of $2.2 billion in the year-earlier period.  
 Mark Herr , an AIG spokeswoman,  Andrew Williams  of the
Treasury and  Jack Gutt  of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
declined to comment.  
 AIG was forced in September 2008 to take a bailout after it
was unable to meet collateral calls to banks including Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Societe Generale SA. The banks had
purchased protection from AIG against default on collateralized
debt obligations, which are pools of assets including home
loans.  
 Collateral Damage  
 The Fed and AIG later agreed to create Maiden Lane III to
purchase $62.1 billion in CDOs and Maiden Lane II to buy about
$39 billion in residential  mortgage-backed securities  owned by
AIG. The actions prevented a credit-rating downgrade of AIG that
would have sparked more collateral calls.  
 The securities were purchased at about half their face
value, reflecting markdowns AIG had already taken. Banks got
payments from Maiden Lane III to retire the guarantees and were
allowed to keep collateral, making them whole on the assets.  
 Joseph Cassano , the former head of the AIG unit that sold
the CDO guarantees, testified last month to the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission that Maiden Lane III was “performing” as
borrowers repaid their loans, and he expected few defaults.  
 Mortgage-Backed Securities  
 Maiden Lane III is valued at  $22.9 billion  and has  $15.5
billion  in principal remaining to be repaid to the Fed,
according to the bank’s  data . Maiden Lane II is valued at  $15.5
billion  and has about  $14 billion  to repay. Mortgage-backed
assets have gained since the depths of the financial crisis as
Bernanke held short-term interest rates near zero and bought
more than $1.7 trillion of Treasuries and government-backed
housing debt.  
 Treasury believes there is value in the portfolios,
particularly Maiden Lane III, according to one of the people,
who declined to say how much debt the government would be
willing to forgive in exchange for AIG’s minority stake.  
 BlackRock Inc. is managing the portfolios for the New York
Fed, which opted to hold most of the assets and collect payments
on the securities, rather than sell them below face value.  
 Benmosche is seeking to focus the insurer, once the world’s
largest, on global property-casualty coverage and life and
retirement products in the U.S. He told the Congressional
Oversight Panel in May that the U.S. will recover AIG bailout
funds “plus a profit.” AIG’s rescue may result in a $45.2
billion loss, based on March 31 data, Treasury said in May.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Sterngold  in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net ;
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Robert Benmosche, president and chief executive officer of American International Group Inc. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
