-- Thailand Raises Interest Rate for First Time Since 2008 as Risks Subside
-- Yumi Teso
-- 2010-07-14T09:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/thailand-raises-interest-rate-for-first-time-since-2008-as-risks-subside.html

          
          
             Thailand’s central bank raised its
benchmark interest  rate  for the first time in almost two years
after deadly political protests ended last quarter without
derailing the economy.  
 The  Bank of Thailand  increased the one-day bond repurchase
rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 1.5 percent after
keeping it unchanged in the past nine meetings, it said in
Bangkok today. The decision was predicted by 13 out of 19
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  
 Thai  consumer confidence  rose for the second straight month
in June even after the nation’s worst political violence in
almost two decades killed 89 people in April and May. The
central bank said it expects inflationary pressure to rise next
year with “robust economic expansion,” as counterparts from
Malaysia to Taiwan boost borrowing costs amid an Asian rebound.  
 “The Bank of Thailand is confident about the economic
outlook, driven by the export sector, in raising the rates,”
said  Tohru Nishihama , an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute Inc. in Tokyo. “They also seem to be taking
preemptive action amid concern inflation will accelerate in the
future.”  
 The baht rose 0.1 percent to 32.32 per dollar at 3:51 p.m.
today. The currency has gained less this quarter than the
currencies of Singapore, South Korea and Malaysia, where central
banks tightened monetary policy earlier.  
 Swaps, Bonds  
 Thailand’s interest-rate swaps and bond yields have climbed
as investors boosted bets the central bank will increase
borrowing costs. The one-year onshore swap rate rose 30 basis
points this month to 1.68 percent today, the highest since April
9. The yield on the 5.25 percent debt maturing in July 2013 has
climbed 27 basis points to 2.7 percent, according to the Thai
Bond Market Association. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 “The economy has strengthened, so it’s time to start
adjusting the rate to normal levels,” Bank of Thailand
Assistant Governor  Paiboon Kittisrikangwan  told reporters in
Bangkok today. “This is the start of the cycle for the interest
rate to move in a new direction.”  
 Overseas sales helped Thailand weather two months of anti-
government protests that hurt tourism and disrupted
 manufacturing  at some factories. The Cabinet on July 6 extended
emergency rule in a quarter of the country, including Bangkok,
for another three months after using troops to disperse
opposition protesters in May.  
 Exports Surge  
 Thailand’s $272 billion gross domestic product grew 12
percent in the first three months of this year, the most since
1995, as the global recovery spurred overseas orders.  Exports 
rose 42.5 percent in May, the biggest gain since July 2008, and
the central bank said today economic expansion may be “higher
than previously anticipated” after the protests had a
“limited” impact.  
 Automakers  Ford Motor Co.,  General Motors Co. and
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. announced plans to build new factories
or expand production in Thailand in the past month.  
 “Higher interest rates from a low level won’t affect
demand,” said  Prasert Taedullayasatit , chief operating officer
of Pruksa Real Estate Pcl, Thailand’s biggest publicly traded
property developer. “There is high demand for residential
properties with the economic rebound. ”  
 Thailand’s central bank raised its benchmark rate from the
lowest level since July 2004.  Malaysia  last week raised its
overnight policy rate for a third time this year to 2.75 percent.
South Korea, Taiwan and India have also increased borrowing
costs as their economies strengthened.  
 State Subsidies  
 Thai  consumer price  gains slowed to 3.3 percent in June,
while  core inflation , which excludes fresh food and fuel, cooled
to 1.1 percent, staying below the central bank’s target of less
than 3 percent. The bank has said state subsidies for transport
and fuel were masking price increases, and inflationary pressure
may rise in the second half of the year as the economy recovers.  
 While the strength of the global economy may falter in the
second half of 2010 as many governments start to withdraw
stimulus policies, the Bank of Thailand said it doesn’t expect a
double-dip recession.  
 “Thailand’s export upswing could still falter if the
global recovery deteriorates, but such fears are fading,”
 Matthew Circosta , an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney,
said in a note yesterday. The central bank “should feel
confident” after Malaysia, Taiwan and South Korea, which are
also export-dependent, increased their borrowing costs recently,
he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        