-- Airlines Fees Should Be More Widely Disclosed, GAO Says
-- John Hughes
-- 2010-07-14T20:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/airlines-fees-should-be-more-widely-disclosed-gao-says.html

          
          
             Airlines flying in the U.S. may be
required to more broadly disclose baggage and other fees after a
government  report  found that consumers lack information needed
to comparison shop among carriers.  
 Airlines don’t include such charges in route and fare data
they provide travel agents who sell 60 percent of tickets either
online or through independent or corporate travel services, the
Government Accountability Office said today in the report.  
 “The fees are not very transparent,”  Gerald Dillingham ,
author of the GAO report,  told a congressional panel . “We do
not think it would be a tremendous burden on the airlines” to
provide the information to travel agents, he said.  
 The report may encourage the Transportation Department to
enact regulations that would require carriers to provide fee
data in route and fare schedules supplied to travel agents. U.S.
lawmakers are also considering fee-disclosure legislation.  
 Airlines are in a “rush to bag more money” as they impose
fees for luggage, blankets, pillows and headphones, said
Representative  James Oberstar , a Minnesota Democrat and chairman
of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “It’s
a backdoor price increase,” he said, adding that more
regulations on such charges are possible.  
 Carriers have added fees to boost revenue beyond airfares,
after rising fuel prices and a recession dampened profits.
Airlines collected $7.8 billion in fees last year for items such
as luggage and reservation changes, up from $5.5 billion in
2008, according to the U.S. Bureau of Transportation Statistics.  
 The figures don’t include other levies imposed by the
airlines for items such as food, drink and pillows.  
 ‘Price Transparency’  
 “Airlines fully support price transparency,” and the fee
information is readily available on carrier websites, said  David Castelveter , spokesman for the Air Transport Association trade
group in Washington. The group’s members include Delta Air Lines
Inc. and AMR Corp.’s American Airlines.  
 The GAO recommended that Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  require airlines to disclose all fees across all ticket
distribution channels, including those used by travel agents.  
 While travel agents are already required to disclose
baggage fees to consumers buying tickets, the sellers said the
information isn’t included in airline fare data, according to
the accountability office. Agents said it isn’t practical to
check carrier websites for the data when customers are waiting
on the phone, the agency said.  
 Optional Fees  
 The U.S. government doesn’t require travel sellers to
disclose other, optional fees for items such as food and drink
when tickets are sold.  
 The government must require the fee disclosure because
airlines have no incentive to provide the information to agents,
said Kyle Moore, who represents fare distributors used by those
agents. That’s because carriers want to appear lower-priced than
rivals, Moore, of the Washington-based Interactive Travel
Services Association, told the House aviation subcommittee.  
 The Business Travel Coalition, a Radnor, Pennsylvania-based
group that represents corporate travel managers, also backs a
government requirement, saying it would help firms better gauge
travel costs.  
 Airlines are “definitely making money on the confusion and
complexity” of fees, which can add as much as 40 percent to the
cost of a ticket,  Kevin Mitchell , the coalition’s chairman, said
in an interview.  
 LaHood last month proposed a rule that would force carriers
to make available optional fees through a “prominent link” on
their Internet home pages. He requested comment on whether they
should be required to distribute to travel agents comprehensive
information on fees.  
 Congressional Action  
 The Senate in March approved a proposal mandating that
carriers display fees for items such as bags and seat
assignments “in reasonable proximity” to the fare. The
legislation, by Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat,
is pending as part of a Federal Aviation Administration budget
bill.  
 Bag fees aren’t subject to a 7.5 percent ticket tax that
helps pay federal aviation costs. Taxing the fees would have
added $186 million, or 2 percent, to federal aviation revenue in
the year that ended Sept. 30, the GAO said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        