-- U.K. Takeover Panel Gives `Cold Shoulder' to Brian Myerson in PCIT Case
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-07-14T15:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/takeover-appeal-board-dismisses-appeals-by-three-investors-in-pcit-case.html

          
          
             Britain’s merger regulator for the
first time in 18 years issued a ban on takeover activity by
three investors accused of skirting rules when they acquired 6.7
million shares of  Principle Capital Investment Trust Plc .  
 An appeal board at the U.K.  Takeover Panel  backed a three-
year ban on Principle Capital’s former Chief Executive Officer
 Brian Myerson  and two others,  Daniel Posen  and  Brian Padgett ,
for failing to disclose they were acting together to buy the
shares in 2009, the panel said in a statement today in London.  
 The decision is the first “cold-shoulder” issued by the
Takeover Panel since 1992. It prevents the men from working with
any company on a U.K. merger under Britain’s takeover code
during the period. The watchdog said a “severe sanction” was
needed because the men joined a cover-up led by Myerson.  
 The men attempted to “conceal from the executive the
circumstances relating to the acquisition of these shares, to
present a false picture of what happened,” the panel said.  
 Parties must report when they are working in concert and
aggregating their interests so the panel can determine if the
minimum 30 percent threshold of voting rights has been reached
to require a mandatory bid be made.  
 “The matters raised by the Takeover Panel are wholly wrong
and misguided,” Myerson said in a statement. “For the panel to
have formed any adverse view of my conduct raises serious
questions, given that I did not break the takeover code in any
way and I totally refute any suggestion that I did.”  
 ‘Most Severe Action’  
 Robin Johnson , a lawyer at law firm Eversheds in London,
said the Takeover Panel took “the most severe action it could”
in a case that highlights what can happen when parties act in
concert to avoid the rules.  
 “The boardroom battle resulted in these individuals
seeking to take control through a shareholding, in what was a
clear breach of the rules on dealing,” said Johnson, who isn’t
involved in the case. “People in proxy battles need to aware of
the implications.”  
 Myerson, who is currently chairman of Principle Capital’s
parent company, said the regulator destroyed evidence and made
secret recordings and potentially threatening remarks to a
witness to get testimony changed.  
 Solicitor John D. Magnin, who represented Myerson and
Padgett, declined to comment.  
 ‘Little Relevance’  
 Posen told the panel in March he wouldn’t participate in
the proceedings because cold-shouldering would have “little
relevance” for him, because of his lack of involvement in
corporate finance, according to the decision. Posen couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  
 The rule the men violated is “key in ensuring a level
playing field in the market for corporate control,”  Sonia
Falconieri , a finance professor at Cass Business School in
London, said in an interview today.  
 Myerson missed a July 1 hearing on the appeal while
attending to his commercial interests in South Africa during the
World Cup, the panel said. The regulator rejected Myerson’s
claim that it had breached his right to due process by holding
the hearing without him, saying he didn’t respond to offers to
testify via conference call or video link.  
 “At issue is a matter affecting the public interest in
having the appeal determined as soon as possible,” the panel
said in its decision. “It tends to outweigh Mr. Myerson’s
commercial interests.”  
 Ethanol Project  
 Myerson said he was in Africa to meet with investors in an
ethanol project in Mozambique.  
 In 2009, Myerson fought with shareholders, led by the U.S.-
based investment company QVT Fund, over Principle Capital’s
management and efforts to liquidate the company. After being
ousted as CEO, Myerson recruited allies and threatened to block
attempts to unwind the company, forcing stakeholders to
reappoint him.  
 Principle Capital buys stakes in small-cap companies it
considers undervalued and pushes for management changes. At its
helm, Myerson spearheaded efforts to remove executives at
companies including  Blacks Leisure Group  Plc and Photo-Me
International Plc. Principal Capital was delisted in May.  
 While battling to maintain control of the company, Myerson
lost a bid to change the terms of his divorce settlement. He had
argued that the financial crisis left him unable to pay the 11.2
million-pound ($16 million) lump-sum agreed upon.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        