-- Alcon's Independent Directors Call Novartis Purchase  Offer `Unacceptable'
-- Dermot Doherty
-- 2010-07-14T18:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/alcon-s-independent-directors-call-novartis-s-offer-grossly-inadequate-.html

          
          
             Independent directors of  Alcon Inc. 
met with minority shareholders in New York today to discuss
 Novartis AG 9W4WWAMDFIVY"></a>  
 The independent directors will continue to take “all
appropriate and necessary actions” regarding Novartis’s
“unacceptable” offer, they said in an e-mailed statement.  
 “Our core position really hasn’t changed,”  Thomas Plaskett , chairman of the directors’ committee, said in a
telephone interview. “We still view the merger proposal as
grossly inadequate.” He declined to comment on what he
considers a fair price or whether the two sides have had talks.  
 Novartis spokesman  Eric Althoff  couldn’t be reached for
comment.  
 Novartis said Jan. 4 it plans to exercise an option to buy
Nestle SA’s 52 percent stake in Alcon for $28.1 billion, or an
average $180 a share, giving Novartis 77 percent of the company.
The Swiss drugmaker has also offered to pay 2.8 of its own
shares for each remaining Alcon share held by the public. The
Basel-based company is seeking to expand its share of the
ophthalmology market and to diversify beyond medicines through
its purchase of Alcon, the world’s largest eye-care company.  
 Novartis rose 80 centimes, or 1.5 percent, to close at
53.75 Swiss francs in Zurich trading today. Based on that price,
minority shareholders would get $137.12 for each Alcon share.  
 Protecting Investors  
 “Novartis cannot afford to upset management and the
employees of Alcon given that it lacks critical expertise in the
intra-ocular lens market,” Karl-Heinz Koch, an analyst at
Helvea, wrote in a research note on July 8. As a result,
Novartis will ultimately have to offer more to the minority
shareholders, he said.  
 Alcon, based in Huenenberg, Switzerland, created the
committee of independent directors in December 2008 to protect
minority investors in transactions involving major shareholders.
The committee has accused Novartis of trying to bypass
safeguards aimed at protecting minority holders and that it is
using “coercive tactics.”  
 Novartis has said Swiss law allows it to buy the stock
without approval of the independent directors once it holds
Nestle’s stake. The directors said Jan. 4 that Swiss corporate
law requires “interested” directors to abstain from a vote on
a merger proposal.  
 Alcon’s independent directors said July 8 they had set up a
$50 million trust to protect the interests of minority
 shareholders . The funds may be used for possible lawsuits over
“any transaction between Alcon and a majority shareholder,”
including Novartis once it completes the purchase.  
 The committee of independent directors comprises Plaskett,
a former airline industry executive;  Lodewijk de Vink , who runs
health-care investments for Blackstone Group LP; and  Joan W. Miller , an ophthalmologist at Harvard Medical School.  
 Alcon said on June 30 that it will hold an extraordinary
general meeting on Aug. 16 to vote on the conditional election
of directors nominated by Novartis to replace directors
nominated by Nestle.  
 Novartis will report second-quarter results tomorrow.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        