-- Allied Irish May Struggle With Stress Test, Glas Says
-- Joe Brennan
-- 2010-07-14T16:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/allied-irish-banks-may-struggle-with-its-stress-test-glas-securities-says.html

          
          
             Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  may find it
difficult to pass European Union stress tests as its capital
raising won’t be finished before the results are due, according
to Glas Securities, which specializes in fixed-income markets.  
 Allied Irish , the country’s second-biggest lender by market
value, is seeking to raise 7.4 billion euros ($9.4 billion) to
meet targets set by the country’s Financial Regulator in March.  
 “AIB is still in the initial stages of its capital-raising
program, which makes it difficult for AIB to pass the EU test as
it will be determined using current capital levels while not
taking into account any future capital raising plans,” Dublin-
based  Glas  said in a note to clients.  
 Allied Irish and rival  Bank of Ireland Plc  are among 91
banks being assessed by EU regulators to show whether they are
able to withstand a shrinking economy and drop in the value of
 government bonds .  
 Dublin-based Allied Irish’s fundraising “is well under way
and we’d expect that to be recognized by the market,” said  Alan
Kelly , the bank’s general manager of group finance.  
 Allied Irish fell 4.3 percent to 90 cents in Dublin
trading, for a market value of 973 million euros. The stock was
the third worst-performing member of the country’s benchmark
ISEQ Overall Index today.  
 Ireland’s Financial Regulator ordered the two banks to
raise a combined 10 billion by the end of this year. Glas said
Bank of Ireland, the country’s biggest lender, is “likely to
pass” the European tests after raising 2.9 billion euros of
capital in June.  
 An 8 percent discount on its sovereign bond holdings would
cost Bank of Ireland 213 million euros and Allied Irish
 791 million euros, Glas said.  
 “We conclude that considerable upward revisions to both
banks capital requirements would appear unlikely, but we do not
rule out some impact related to their respective sovereign
portfolios,” Glas said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        