-- Alzheimer's Gene Acts on Middle-Aged People, Two U.S. Studies Indicate
-- Elizabeth Lopatto
-- 2010-07-14T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/alzheimer-s-gene-acts-on-middle-aged-people-two-u-s-studies-indicate.html

          
          
             Healthy middle-aged people who have
a high-risk variant of a gene have less brain volume in areas
affected early in Alzheimer’s disease and do worse on tests of
memory and learning, researchers said.  
 In one study released today, people with an average age of
54 and a version of a gene dubbed Tomm40 showed difficulty in
learning and memory similar to those seen in  early Alzheimer’s .
Participants with the high-risk gene in a second study had less
gray matter in parts of the brain involved in learning, memory,
emotions and self-reflection.  
 The role of the Tomm40 variation, announced last year, was
discovered by Duke University’s  Allen Roses , who uncovered the
variants in the  APOE gene  that predispose carriers to
Alzheimer’s disease. Today’s findings suggest that Tomm40 may be
useful for measuring risk of Alzheimer’s in middle age, said
 Sterling Johnson , a neuropsychologist at the University of
Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, who led the
brain volume study, in a statement.  
 “These studies are beginning to show this genetic trait is
correlating with physiological changes and structural changes
before the disease,” said Roses, a co-author of the studies, in
a telephone interview. “That’s the classic definition of a
biomarker,” a feature that can be used to measure disease risk.  
 The results were presented at the  International Conference
on Alzheimer’s Disease  in Honolulu.  
 $20 Test  
 A test to determine whether a person has Tomm40 won’t be
commercially available until the clinical use has been
established, said Roses, who is the director of the Deane Drug
Discovery Institute at Durham, North Carolina-based Duke’s
medical center. Such a test costs $20 for academic use, he said.  
 The researcher said he is in talks with four companies to
commercialize an assay when the time comes, and declined to name
the possible partners.  
 The long version of  Tomm40  is the more-dangerous form, and
signals an earlier onset of Alzheimer’s disease. It is usually
found with a form of APOE known as APOE-4, the gene already
shown to predispose carriers to Alzheimer’s disease, Roses’s
earlier research found. Patients with another form, APOE-3, can
get either a long version or a short version. Which one they get
may help determine their Alzheimer’s susceptibility.  
 Mark Sager , a professor of preventive medicine at the
University of Wisconsin medical school in Madison, led the study
of middle-aged people with Alzheimer’s disease in their
families. The patients had an average age of 57.  
 Regardless which version of APOE patients had, those with
the higher-risk Tomm40 variant performed worse on tests of
learning and memory, the research found. The participants had
less gray matter in part of the brain called the cingulate
cortex and the precuneus.  
 “In this study population, Tomm40 genotyping is allowing
us to find evidence of very early Alzheimer’s disease at least
20 years before people begin to show the outward symptoms,”
Sager said in a statement released by the Chicago-based
 Alzheimer’s Association , an advocacy group.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The brain’s posterior cingulate could represent a biomarker for Alzheimer’s disease. Source: University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Alzheimer's patient  
                       
                         
                           Junji Yoshino/Bloomberg 
                         
                         An Alzheimer's patient sits on her bed in a hospital. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An Alzheimer's patient sits on her bed in a hospital. Photographer: Junji Yoshino/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
