-- Americans in 73% Majority Oppose Deepwater Drilling Ban
-- Kim Chipman
-- 2010-07-14T22:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/americans-in-73-majority-oppose-ban-on-deepwater-drilling-after-oil-spill.html

          
          
             Most Americans oppose President
 Barack Obama ’s ban on deepwater oil drilling in response to  BP
Plc ’s Gulf of Mexico spill, even as they hold the company
primarily responsible for the incident.  
 Almost three-fourths, or 73 percent, say a ban is
unnecessary, calling the worst oil spill in U.S. history a
“freak accident,” according to a Bloomberg National Poll.
Barely more than a third say they support drilling less than
they did a few months ago. The  BP  rig sank in April. The
administration issued a new moratorium this week after
a court rejected a six-month one imposed in May.  
 “A ban will destroy the economy in that area over
nothing,” said poll respondent Ron Smallcomb, 64, a used-car
dealer in Mountaintop, Pennsylvania. “This is crazy. If there’s
a plane crash you don’t ground all the airlines and stop flying
completely.”  
 Eight in 10 of those questioned in the July 9-12 poll say
London-based BP should pay for all damage caused by the spill.
Six in 10 say BP, not the federal government, should reimburse
wages lost by oil workers laid off because of the moratorium,
with 56 percent saying even the possibility of bankruptcy
shouldn’t allow the company to escape paying.  
 Asked who was most to blame for the spill, 44 percent say
BP, and 19 percent say lax federal regulations and oversight.
One in five say no one is to blame.  
 “It’s their fault,” Dan Urban, 45, an unemployed
restaurant manager in Las Vegas, said of BP. “They are
ultimately responsible for what they did whether they go
bankrupt or not.”  
 ‘Economic Catastrophe’  
 While public objections to a drilling ban echo the views of
Republican leaders such as Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal , the
sentiment is strong regardless of political leaning: 85 percent
of Republicans, 73 percent of independents and 65 percent of
Democrats oppose a ban, according to the poll.  
 Jindal, whose state has been hardest hit by the spill, says
a prohibition on drilling is an overreaction that will turn an
“environmental disaster into an economic catastrophe,” costing
as many as 20,000 jobs in Louisiana alone.  
 “We need the federal government to do their jobs to ensure
drilling is done safely without killing thousands of jobs for
our people,” Jindal said in a statement July 13.  
 Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  says a ban is a  reasonable
response  to the crisis. “Industry must raise the bar on its
practices and answer fundamental questions about deepwater
safety,” he said in a statement on July 12.  
 Not ‘Impending Doom’  
 “The fact so many people say it was a freak accident is
especially telling,” said J.  Ann Selzer , president of Selzer &
Co., a Des Moines, Iowa-based company that conducted the
telephone survey. “People say BP must pay, but there’s no sense
of impending doom at the hands of the entire industry.”  
 The length of the spill, now in its 84th day, may explain
why there’s not a broader sense of outrage, she said.  
 “Perhaps because it’s gone on so long there’s a sense that
it is what it is,” Selzer said. “BP is accountable for what
they are accountable for, but any sense of vindication you might
look to find is absent.”  
 The Bloomberg National Poll is based on interviews with
1,004 U.S. adults ages 18 or older. Percentages based on the
full sample may have a maximum margin of error of plus or minus
3.1 percentage points.  
 Making BP pay for the economic damages from the spill even
at the risk of bankruptcy is backed by 61 percent of respondents
who said they are Democrats, and 54 percent of both Republicans
and independents.  
 ‘Accidents Happen’  
 Eight in 10 of those questioned say BP shouldn’t be
assessed penalties beyond payment for damages, such as being
banned from future drilling in the U.S. The House Natural
Resources Committee yesterday approved an amendment that would
bar the company from new offshore leases in the U.S.  
 “I totally expect them to pay for the damages done, but to
ban BP or other companies from future drilling is ridiculous,”
said John P. Sennet, 65, a retired manager from AK Steel Corp.
in Middletown, Ohio. “I just don’t understand the logic in that
-- accidents happen,” he said.  
 While 73 percent of Democrats say BP should pay for the
wages of rig workers laid off because of the drilling
moratorium, Republicans are evenly split, with 42 percent saying
BP should pay and the same number saying the government should.  
 BP has allocated $100 million to pay for the missed wages
of workers idled by the drilling ban. That money is separate
from a $20 billion fund BP has created to cover economic damages
caused by the spill.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Washington at   KChipman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The Transocean Deepwater Horizon oil rig  
                       
                         
                           Transocean Ltd. via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Transocean Ltd. Deepwater Horizon in Sept. 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Transocean Ltd. Deepwater Horizon in Sept. 2009. Source: Transocean Ltd. via Bloomberg  
                   
    


 
     
         
             Chart:  Poll
         
     
 



 
     
         Attachment:  Poll results and methodology 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
