-- Hang Seng Index Climbs to Two-Week High on Outlook for Profits, Economies
-- Ronnie Koo
-- 2010-07-14T09:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/hang-seng-index-climbs-to-two-week-high-on-outlook-for-profits-economies.html

          
          
             Hong Kong stocks  rose, driving the
benchmark index to a two-week high, after Intel Corp.’s sales
forecast exceeded estimates and Singapore’s economy grew at a
record pace, renewing optimism in a global recovery.  
 Lenovo Group Ltd. , China’s largest personal-computer maker,
gained 3.2 percent after the results from U.S.-based Intel, the
world’s biggest chipmaker.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. , a global
fashion retailer, climbed 3.6 percent.  BOC Hong Kong (Holdings)
Ltd.  jumped the most in the Hang Seng Index after the bank was
appointed to handle yuan transactions for Taiwanese banks.  
 The  index  rose 0.6 percent to 20,560.81, its highest close
since June 28, and more than seven stocks gained for every three
that fell among the gauge’s 43 constituents. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index  of so-called H shares of Chinese companies
climbed 0.3 percent to 11,656.61.  
 “Asian PC makers will thrive on the earnings releases by
U.S. tech companies,” said  Catherine Cheung , head of investment
strategy and research at Citibank (Hong Kong) Ltd. “There is
great momentum in their earnings, and it has eased concerns for
a double dip” in economic growth.  
 The Hang Seng Index has lost almost 6 percent this year as
China’s efforts to cool its property market and Europe’s debt
crises dented confidence in a global economic recovery. Stocks
on the gauge trade at  13.6 times  estimated earnings, Bloomberg
data show.  
 Lenovo rose 3.2 percent to HK$4.55. Esprit gained 3.6
percent to HK$45.20, the second-biggest increase on the Hang
Seng Index.  Li & Fung Ltd. , the largest supplier to retailers
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Target Corp., climbed 2.4
percent to HK$37.75.  
 Intel, Singapore  
 Intel, the world’s biggest chipmaker, reported record
second-quarter sales and topped analysts’ estimates with its
forecast for this period. Third-quarter sales will be $11.6
billion, plus or minus $400 million, the company said. Analysts
in a Bloomberg survey had estimated $10.9 billion on average.  
 Investor sentiment was also boosted after Singapore’s
economy expanded at a 26 percent annual pace in the second
quarter after a record surge the previous three months. First-
quarter growth was revised to 45.9 percent, the fastest since
records began in 1975, the trade ministry said. Gross domestic
product will expand between 13 percent and 15 percent in 2010,
compared with an earlier forecast of as much as 9 percent, the
ministry said.  
 BOC HK, BaWang  
 BOC Hong Kong , a unit of China’s third-largest lender,
jumped 4.3 percent to HK$18.52 after it was appointed by the
People’s Bank of China to handle yuan transactions for Taiwanese
banks, according to a statement by the central bank yesterday.  
 Trading in  BaWang International (Group) Holding Ltd. , a
Chinese herbal-shampoo maker that uses movie star Jackie Chan in
its advertising campaigns, was suspended, after tumbling as much
as 18 percent. Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. said
that, if a report by Hong Kong’s Next magazine that a cancer-
causing element was found in Bawang’s shampoo was true, that
could hurt product sales and that the market will react
“negatively,” according to a research report today.  
 BaWang said its products meet U.S., European and Hong Kong
safety standards.  
 BYD Co.  climbed 1.4 percent to HK$55.15. The Chinese
carmaker backed by Warren Buffett may delay an A-share listing
in China to seek “better timing” for the sale after stock
markets fell. BYD’s board of directors requested a 12-month
extension until Sept. 7, 2011, to prepare a listing, the company
said.  
 Futures on the gauge rose 0.6 percent to 20,553.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net ;
 Ronnie Koo  in Hong Kong at 
 rkoo4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        