-- Arena's Lorcaserin Helped Overweight Adults Lose More Weight, Study Says
-- Nicole Ostrow
-- 2010-07-14T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/arena-s-lorcaserin-helped-more-adults-lose-weight-than-placebo-study-says.html

          
          
             Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc.’s 
experimental weight-loss drug, which would become the company’s
first marketed product if approved, enabled twice as many people
to lose at least 5 percent of their body weight as those getting
a placebo, a  study  found.  
 About 48 percent of those taking lorcaserin lost 5 percent
or more of their weight after one year compared with about 20
percent of the placebo group, researchers said today in the  New
England Journal of Medicine . More of those taking lorcaserin
maintained that weight loss through the second year of the trial
than those on a placebo, according to the company-sponsored
study, part of Arena’s quest for U.S. regulatory clearance.  
 Arena, based in San Diego, is competing with Mountain View,
California-based  Vivus Inc.  and San Diego-based  Orexigen
Therapeutics Inc.  to gain approval for the first prescription
weight-loss drug to arrive on the market in more than a decade.
Vivus’s medicine, Qnexa, may cause birth defects and a “low”
level of psychiatric effects, Food and Drug Administration staff
reviewers said yesterday in a  report  for an advisory panel
meeting tomorrow on the drug.  
 “It’s important to recognize we have a huge unmet need for
drugs to treat obesity,”  Steven R. Smith , author of the Arena
study and a consultant to the company, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “Doctors want new tools in the toolkit to
help their patients lose weight and patients want options to
choose from to be able to lose weight and improve their
health.”  
 Smith, who works in Winter Park, Florida, is scientific
director at the Translational Research Institute of Metabolism &
Diabetes, part of the Orlando-based Florida Hospital group.  
 Arena rose 8 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $4.28 in Nasdaq
Stock Market composite trading. The shares have climbed 7
percent in 12 months.  
 Advisory Panels  
 An FDA advisory panel is scheduled to review lorcaserin on
Sept. 16, Arena said. Regulators are expected to decide whether
to approve lorcaserin and Qnexa by late October. Orexigen’s
weight-loss drug, Contrave, is scheduled for a Dec. 7 panel
review, with a decision on approval by Jan. 31.  
 One-third of American adults are  obese , raising their risk
of diabetes, heart disease, and cancer, according to the  Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention  in Atlanta. With the new
treatment options, the global diet-pill market may reach $10.5
billion by 2018, according to Datamonitor Plc in London.  
 Researchers in the study looked at 3,182 obese or
overweight adults who either took lorcaserin or a placebo twice
a day for 12 months. The patients also underwent counseling on
diet and exercise. The study was conducted at 98 academic and
private clinical trial sites from September 2006 to February
2009, the paper said.  
 Waist Size  
 The scientists found that patients on lorcaserin lost about
three times more weight, 12.8 pounds (5.8 kilograms), after a
year compared with 4.8 pounds in the placebo group. Those taking
lorcaserin also decreased their waist size and improved their
insulin resistance and blood pressure, the authors said.  
 In the second year of the study, the researchers assigned
some of the lorcaserin group to placebo, while the rest
continued to take the drug. About 68 percent of those who
continued on lorcaserin maintained their weight loss in the
second year compared with 50 percent of those who were switched
to placebo, the study showed.  
 The most-serious side effects were headache and nausea in
the lorcaserin group, which appeared to go away the longer the
patients were on the drug, Smith said. The drug had no effect on
the heart, he said.  
 Lorcaserin and Qnexa have components similar to those
blended to make fen-phen, the recalled weight-loss drug tied to
heart damage. Orexigen’s Contrave contains an antidepressant and
addiction drug tied to nausea, vomiting and dizziness.  
 Brain Receptor  
 Lorcaserin binds to a receptor in the brain that controls
appetite, while avoiding a target in the heart that was linked
to valve damage with the recalled treatment, according to Arena.
 Eisai Co. , a Tokyo-based drugmaker, bought marketing rights to
Arena’s drug on July 1.  
 Qnexa from Vivus combines phentermine with the
anticonvulsant drug topiramate, the generic form of  Johnson &
Johnson’s  Topamax. Contrave adds a sustained-release version of
the smoking-cessation and depression treatment bupropion to
naltrexone, used for alcohol and opiate addiction.  
 Qnexa’s review by the FDA staff suggests safety concerns
won’t rise to a level to stop the drug from gaining approval,
 Steve Yoo , a Leerink Swann analyst, said.  
 “There’s a risk associated with not treating obesity,”
said Smith, the author of today’s study. “Obesity leads to
diabetes; we know it increases your risk of developing heart
disease, high blood pressure. Everything we have in front of us
suggests that lorcaserin is safe and has benefit in improving
the metabolic profile and lowering blood pressure.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        