-- Marks & Spencer's Pay Report Is Opposed by 8.6% of Its Voting Investors
-- Sarah Shannon
-- 2010-07-14T16:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/marks-spencer-s-pay-report-is-opposed-by-8-6-of-its-voting-investors.html

          
          
             Marks & Spencer Group Plc  said 8.6
percent of voting shareholders opposed its remuneration report,
under which new Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  could
receive 15 million pounds ($22.9 million).  
 The report was approved by 91.4 percent of those that
voted, the U.K.’s largest clothing retailer said at its annual
general meeting at London’s Royal Festival Hall. The figures
didn’t include the 8.3 percent of shares that weren’t voted.  
 Pensions & Investment Research Consultants Ltd. had called
for investors to oppose the report, which it said included
“highly excessive” executive pay and recruitment incentives
for the CEO. The Association of British Insurers, whose members
own about 15 percent of British publicly traded companies’
shares, issued an “amber top” warning to investors, urging a
“considered judgement” on the report.  
 “We got over 90 percent of the vote, I don’t see a problem
with that,” Chairman  Stuart Rose  said after the meeting.  
 Bolland, 51, joined the retailer in May. His package
includes a 975,000-pound salary, bonuses and a 7.5 million-pound
payment to compensate for incentives he would have received at
his former employer,  William Morrison Supermarkets Plc .  
 “That money will be delivered if the company does well,”
Rose told the meeting. “I hope he will earn that money because
as a shareholder I know I will be happy.”  
 ‘Evolution, Not Revolution’  
 Rose, who is due to stand aside by March, received a 48
percent pay increase last year, including a 1.14 million-pound
cash bonus, even as the retailer cut its dividend for the first
time in nine years. “I won’t be here next year,” Rose said,
when asked about his pay increase.  
 Bolland plans “an evolution, not revolution” of the
business, he told shareholders at the meeting.  
 “Yes, there will be change, but it will be building on the
things that are good,” the CEO said. He is due to present his
detailed plans for the business in November.  
 Bolland turned a loss of 250 million pounds into a record
profit of 554 million pounds in his first two years at Morrison.
During his tenure, sales rose more than 20 percent and the stock
gained 26 percent, while Marks & Spencer shares fell 34 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        