-- Arrogance Surplus Leads to Government Excesses: Amity Shlaes
-- Amity Shlaes
-- 2010-07-14T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/arrogance-surplus-leads-to-government-excesses-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html

          
          
             What helps business? President
 Barack Obama  seems to think putting a complaining executive on a
prestigious committee is the answer.  
 That’s what Obama did when he responded to Verizon Chairman
 Ivan Seidenberg ’s complaint about policy uncertainty with
invitations to chat and a seat on a committee studying exports.
Democrats think that the way to help business is to create a
small business fund, at least according to legislation proposed
by Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus .  
 Nobody knows what Republicans think about business. To
judge by its chatter this week, the Grand Old Party solution for
business has something to do with curtailing the distribution of
medical marijuana.  
 The problem for all is that business isn’t an identifiable
person, group or company. Good policy is what might be called
humble policy. It starts with admitting what we don’t know. That
includes who will lead growth in 2011 or 2012, where that person
lives, and how he or she will get capital. Humble policy then
goes on to concentrate on trying to let our economy become that
broad space that future businesses and industries still unknown,
might find inviting.  
 Humble policy is, of course, hard for a U.S. Congress to
get its head around. Policy, in lawmakers’ minds, is all about
knowing and crafting smarter law. Lawmakers are arrogant in
their certainty that voters will never accept policy that
doesn’t reward voters like Pavlov’s dogs. Lawmakers are also
certain that they shouldn’t be seen to write law that will help
the rich in the future. But again, there is that mistake: they
are assuming they know who the rich will be.  
 First Step  
 But to the plan. Humble step No. 1: Permanently set tax
 rates  lower for all. That means keeping the dividend tax low,
keeping the top income-tax rate at 35 percent and sustaining the
capital-gains rate at 20 percent or lower. Cutting the corporate
tax would help the U.S. compete with the rest of the world.  
 Even better would be to pass the plan of the humble
congressman, Republican  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin. The Ryan plan
advocates abolishing taxes on capital gains and dividends, and
reduces the top marginal rate on income taxes to 25 percent.  
 Lower taxes would increase growth. When President  George W. Bush  and Congress lowered dividend and capital gains rates
taxes, they increased gross domestic product by 0.25 percentage
point. When President  Bill Clinton  and Congress lowered the 
capital gains rate in the 1990s, growth likewise increased. The 
revenue from the cuts were in both incidents higher than static
analysis from federal offices predicted.  
 Cutting Regulation  
 Cutting regulation, including the new health-care mandate,
would generate the missing jobs that are driving our political
and policy debates. It is the definition of arrogance to assume
employers can afford the modern mandates.  
 The next humble step would be to set policy to benefit the
overall economy, not any specific group. The Obama
administration’s new emphasis on exports is misguided.
Promulgating export policy may help one politician through one
election cycle. But overall, emphasizing exports ignores that
exports may not be the area in the U.S. economy where growth
will be most productive. Therefore export politics misallocates
economic resources.  
 Plenty of lawmakers tell themselves they are too clever to
back exports. Instead they want to target help to entrepreneurs,
and offer, of course, a specific definition for what an
entrepreneur is. But doing this, they begin to commit the same
error as the export mercantilists.  
 Dropping Stimulus  
 The third humble policy is demanding a serious commitment
from lawmakers to abandon fiscal stimulus. Stimulus spending
represents an even worse misallocation of resources than export
promotion. Optimal of course would be if Washington used savings
it gets from abandoning stimulus to pay for the supposedly
impossible task of maintain the Bush tax rates.  
 The fourth humble move is up to voters. It is to reduce
expectations about entitlements. This would be easier to do if
the fifth and final requirement were met: electing lawmakers or
hiring government advisers with an ability to demonstrate
humility.  
 One such humble hero in the wings is  Mitch Daniels ,
Republican governor of Indiana. Daniels spent time in the second
Bush administration as director of  Office of Management and
Budget , so he knows the details of crafting, say, a humbler
Medicare policy. Ryan, the congressman, may also meet the
humility criterion.  
 Right now there’s little evidence of humble vision in
Washington. At a hearing on the future of taxes in the Senate
Finance Committee this week, for example, the debate will range
from extending the Bush rates for some to extending them for all
to extending them for none. Any other possibility, deeper cuts
for example, will be ridiculed because it won’t fit the pay-as-
you-go budgeting regime. And tax cuts never will meet that
standard, goes the argument, because lawmakers will never be
willing to make the offsetting spending cuts.  
 Even as it is ridiculed, humble policy still is worth
laying out. Doing so reminds us that what is failing us isn’t
our economy, but our politics.  
 ( Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        