-- U.S. Stocks Fall, Treasuries Rally on Fed's Economic Outlook
-- Elizabeth Stanton
-- 2010-07-14T20:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/asian-stocks-currencies-climb-on-intel-sales-singapore-growth-forecast.html

          
          
             Treasuries surged, snapping the 10-
year note’s longest losing streak in 11 months, while most U.S.
stocks fell and oil erased gains as the Federal Reserve said it
sees no need for additional economic stimulus measures even as
it trimmed its growth outlook.  
 The 10-year Treasury yield slid eight basis points to 3.05
percent as the benchmark government security climbed for the
first time in six days. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped
less than 0.1 percent to 1,095.17 at 4 p.m. in New York, halting
a six-day rally, as four stocks retreated for every three that
rose on U.S. exchanges. Benchmark equity indexes for  Canada  and
Brazil declined more than 0.3 percent as oil erased a gain of as
much as 1.3 percent.  
 U.S. equity indexes fell to their lows of the day after
minutes from the Fed’s last meeting indicated that U.S. central
bankers were concerned about lingering high unemployment and
risks that inflation could decelerate further. The S&P 500
erased a midday advance that was led by technology companies as
 Intel Corp.  surged after forecasting a record full-year profit.  
 “The Fed threw a little cold water on the earnings-driven
market recovery,” said  Don Wordell , a fund manager for Atlanta-
based RidgeWorth Capital Management, which oversees about $62
billion. “They have brought down their expectations for growth
and become more cautious, that’s probably shocking some
people.”  
 Fed Growth Forecast  
 U.S. central bankers lowered their central tendency
forecast for 2010 growth to a range of 3 percent to 3.5 percent
versus 3.2 percent to 3.7 percent in April, the minutes show.
They also trimmed their outlook for inflation this year to a
range of 1.0 percent to 1.1 percent, down from 1.2 percent to
1.5 percent in April. The minutes showed the economy may not
recover fully to its “longer-run path” for five to six years.  
 Cisco Systems Inc. , Intel and Hewlett-Packard Co. rose at
least 1.2 percent to lead the Dow Jones Industrial Average to a
three-week high.  
 Banks in the S&P 500 slumped 1.5 percent as a group for the
biggest decline among 24 industries before JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. report earnings later
this week. Retailers in the index lost 0.8 percent after the
Commerce Department said purchases decreased 0.5 percent in
June, more than projected.  
 Gains in Treasuries also came as the U.S. auctioned $13
billion of 30-year bonds at a lower-than-forecast yield of 4.08
percent.  
 Treasury Yields  
 The yield on the 30-year bond dropped 7 basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 4.03 percent. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year note fell 8 basis points to 3.05 percent.  
 Crude oil retreated in the last half-hour of floor trading
in New York, reversing a gain of 1.3 percent. Oil for August
delivery dropped 11 cents to $77.04 a barrel.  
 Gold fell in New York on sales by some investors after
prices gained the most in three weeks. The metal, which
yesterday climbed 1.2 percent for its biggest advance since mid-
June, lost $6.50, or 0.5 percent, to $1,207 an ounce today on
the Comex in New York.  
 European stocks closed little changed after a six-day rally
pushed valuations to the highest level in two months. ICAP Plc
led declining shares after saying trading volumes “slowed
significantly” in June. BP Plc fell 2.3 percent as the company
delayed testing of a new cap placed over its leaking Gulf of
Mexico oil well.  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped less than 0.1 percent,
paring earlier losses in the final hour of trading. The measure
had risen 8.2 percent over the previous six days, leaving the
gauge trading at more than 16 times its companies’ reported
profits, the highest valuation since May, according to Bloomberg
data.  
 The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.2739 after climbing as much
as 0.4 percent versus the dollar earlier.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index jumped 1.5 percent. Samsung
Electronics Co., Asia’s biggest maker of semiconductors, climbed
3.5 percent in Seoul. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest
automaker, gained 4 percent in Tokyo. DBS Group Holdings Ltd.,
Southeast Asia’s largest lender, rose 1.8 percent in Singapore.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian looks at an electronic stock board outside a securities firm in Tokyo. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Intel Corp. Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li from Santa Clara, California, about the outlook for sales.
     Intel, the world's biggest chipmaker, reported record second-quarter sales and topped analysts' estimates with its forecast for this period, allaying concern that a rebound in technology spending is losing steam. Smith also discusses the company's investments in China. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Sean Callow, a currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about European Union stress tests for banks and the outlook for the euro.
     The euro rose for a second day versus the yen after Greece sold Treasury bills at an interest rate below the 5 percent charged by the European Union when it rescued the nation from default. Callow speaks from Sydney. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
