-- Asian Rig Use Hits 18-Year High Amid BP Spill: Chart of the Day
-- Dinakar Sethuraman
-- 2010-07-14T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/asian-rig-use-hits-18-year-high-amid-bp-spill-chart-of-the-day.html

          
          
             BP Plc’s oil spill in the Gulf of
Mexico has failed to deter the appetite for drilling in Asia 
Pacific, with rig use reaching an 18-year high last month.  
 The CHART OF THE DAY shows monthly totals in the
Middle East and Asia Pacific, with the 271 rigs deployed on 
and and sea in Asia, the most since December 1991, according 
to data compiled by Bloomberg from Baker Hughes Inc. The lower
panel tracks China’s crude imports since December 2003.  
 “Asia is looking more and more attractive because of a
rush for natural gas,” said Tony Regan, a consultant in
Singapore with Tri-Zen International Ltd. “Oil companies are
wary about the Gulf of Mexico after the drilling ban, and the
Atlantic basin doesn’t look good because of lower gas prices.”  
 Explorers deployed 14 percent more rigs in Asia in June,
compared with January last year as China, India, Australia and
Indonesia opened up areas. China and India are seeking fuel for
economies growing at more than 8 percent a year. The almost
doubling of crude prices since January 2009 has also spurred the
quest for oil and gas, said Regan, a former executive at Royal
Dutch Shell Plc.  
 Reliance Industries Ltd. discovered India’s biggest gas
field in 2002, and LNG projects in Australia valued at more than
A$80 billion ($71 billion) are scheduled for final investment
decisions in 2010, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
February. The A$43 billion Gorgon LNG project was approved last
year by partners Chevron Corp., Exxon Mobil Corp. and Shell.  
 Asia’s oil-demand growth has risen 27 percent since 1999,
compared with a 2 percent decline for North America and Europe,
according to data from BP. Oil-product demand in Asia’s
emerging-market nations will rise by about 3.8 percent a year on
average to 23 million barrels a day in 2015, the International
Energy Agency said in a report. The number of rigs in the Gulf
of Mexico plunged to the lowest level in 16 years last week,
Baker Hughes, a Houston-based oilfield-services firm, said last
month.  
 (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  
 For Related News and Information:
Drilling news: TNI FIELD ASIA BN &lt;GO&gt;
Rig news: NI RIG BN &lt;GO&gt;
Charts of the Day: CHART &lt;GO&gt;
Top Energy News: TOP NRG &lt;GO&gt;
Exchange-Traded Energy Futures: LFP &lt;GO&gt;
Gulf Oil Spill News: SPILL &lt;GO&gt;  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        