-- Asian Currencies Gain, Led by Won, on Record Singapore Growth, Intel Sales
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-07-14T08:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/asian-currencies-gain-led-by-won-on-record-singapore-growth-intel-sales.html

          
          
             Asian currencies  rallied after
Singapore reported record economic growth and Intel Corp., the
world’s biggest chipmaker, had its highest-ever quarterly sales.  
 Benchmark stock indexes advanced across the Asia-Pacific
region after Singapore today said gross domestic product rose at
an 18.1 percent pace in the first half of the year, prompting
the government to raise its 2010 growth forecast. South Korea’s
Kospi index climbed to a two-year high as overseas investors
made their biggest net purchases of Korean shares this year.
Greece yesterday sold bonds at a rate lower than it pays for
European aid, easing concern about the region’s debt crisis.  
 “The Singapore and Intel numbers suggest that global
growth is recovering and is far more stable than what the market
is pricing in,” said  Wai Ho Leong , a regional economist at
Barclays Plc in Singapore.  
 South Korea’s won strengthened for the first time in three
days, climbing 0.8 percent to 1,202.33 per dollar of the 3 p.m.
close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Singapore’s dollar rose 0.5 percent to S$1.3748, earlier
touching a three-week high of S$1.3733, and Taiwan’s dollar
gained 0.3 percent to NT$32.192.  
 Singapore said its GDP expanded at a 26 percent annual pace
in the second quarter and revised its estimate for the previous
three months to 46 percent. The government raised its 2010
growth forecast to as much as 15 percent from a maximum of 9
percent earlier, the third increase this year. South Korea last
month boosted its projection to 5.8 percent from 5 percent.  
 Appreciation Stance  
 Singapore’s central bank, which uses the exchange rate
rather than interest rates to conduct monetary policy, said in
April that it will seek a “modest and gradual appreciation” in
the local dollar after shifting to a stronger range for currency
fluctuations. Its next biannual review is in October.  
 “The Monetary Authority of Singapore may at the very least
maintain a modest and gradual appreciation stance for the
currency at the next policy meeting,” Leong of Barclays said.
Further tightening is possible in October should inflation
gather pace, he added.  
 Thailand’s baht rose to the strongest level in three weeks
as the central bank boosted borrowing costs for the first time
in almost two years, increasing the benchmark to 1.5 percent
from 1.25 percent, as expected by 13 of 19 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  
 “The markets had priced in the rate hike and the baht
remained steady after the decision was announced,” said  Paisarn Lertkowit , a Bangkok-based currency trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl,
the country’s biggest lender. “Most people would like to wait
and see the economic data to predict how many more rate
increases are to come this year. The baht should stay in a
range.”  
 Taiwan Dollar  
 The baht appreciated 0.1 percent to 32.33 per dollar, and
rose as much as 0.2 percent to 32.31, the strongest level since
June 22, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It may trade
between 32.25 and 32.40 until the end of next week, Paisarn said.  
 Taiwan’s dollar rose the most in three weeks on bets more
cash will flow to the island after the People’s Bank of China
gave its approval for Bank of China (Hong Kong) Ltd. to settle
yuan transactions for Taiwanese banks. The move comes after the
two governments on June 29 signed an Economic Cooperation
Framework Agreement aimed at spurring trade and investment
between their economies.  
 “People expect some capital inflows to Taiwan from
mainland China,” said  Tarsicio Tong , a currency trader at Union
Bank of Taiwan in Taipei. “The stock market is up. Everything
is good, especially the relationship with China.”  
 Elsewhere, the Philippine peso rose 0.4 percent to 46.26
per dollar and Malaysia’s ringgit climbed 0.2 percent to 3.1980.
Indonesia’s rupiah was little changed at 9,055.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        