-- ASML Profit Beats Analyst Estimates as Chip Customers Increase Spending
-- Maud van Gaal
-- 2010-07-14T16:29:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/asml-profit-beats-analyst-estimates-as-chip-customers-increase-spending.html

          
          
             ASML Holding NV , Europe’s biggest
maker of semiconductor equipment, reported second-quarter profit
that beat analysts’ predictions and forecast that 2010 sales
will rise to a record level as chip companies boost spending.  
 Sales  may be 10 percent to 15 percent higher than the record
in 2007 of 3.8 billion euros ($4.9 billion), ASML said today.
The Dutch company said in April that revenue would “surpass”
the 2007 figure. Sales volume in the fourth quarter will
continue into the first quarter of next year, it said today.  
 ASML, the maker of machines that produce chips for Apple
Inc.’s iPods and Nokia Oyj’s mobile phones, is benefitting from
increased demand for equipment to make memory chips.  Intel
Corp. , the world’s biggest chipmaker, yesterday raised its
profit forecast for the year to a record after businesses
resumed spending on computers.  
 “Semiconductor makers are lining up at ASML’s doors as
they can’t keep up with demand,”  Jos Versteeg , an Amsterdam-
based analyst at Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers, said in a phone
interview. ASML’s outlook “eases concerns of a potential
cooling down towards the end of the year. They clearly say
demand will continue in 2011,” he said.  
 ASML rose 3.1 percent to 25.15 euros in Amsterdam trading,
the biggest gain in more than a month.  
 Expanding Factory Lines  
 Companies including  Samsung Electronics Co.  are expanding
factory lines to meet rising demand for personal-computer memory
and chips used to store data in portable devices such as Apple’s
iPhone.  
 Intel, whose processors run more than 80 percent of the
world’s personal computers, said yesterday it expects about
$5.2 billion in full-year capital spending, up from an earlier
prediction of about $4.4 billion.  
 ASML’s second-quarter net income was 239 million euros,
compared with a net loss of 104 million euros a year earlier,
the Veldhoven, Netherlands-based company said. That beat the
203 million-euro average of 15  analysts’ estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  
 “For the first time in years we are seeing customers
announcing new factories, and those factories need the full
suite of our products,” ASML Chief Financial Officer  Peter Wennink  said in a video on the company’s  website .  
 Second-quarter sales rose to 1.07 billion euros from
277 million euros a year earlier, beating the 1.01 billion-euro
average estimate of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 More Orders  
 ASML received 1.18 billion euros of orders for 59 machines
in the second quarter, up from 15 machines a year earlier. The
average selling price for ordered machines fell to 20 million
euros from 26.3 million euros a year earlier. The company
expects bookings valued at about 1.3 billion euros for the third
quarter.  
 “These are excellent results,” said  Tijs Hollestelle , an
Amsterdam-based analyst at ING Groep NV with a “hold”
recommendation on the shares. “Second-quarter bookings and
third-quarter order guidance were better than expected, so that
provides a lot of comfort.”  
 Global semiconductor capital equipment spending will more
than double to $35.4 billion this year from $16.6 billion in
2009, researcher Gartner Inc. said June 10. Capital equipment
spending growth may slow to 6.6 percent in 2011 as “the
industry focuses on macroeconomic conditions,” the Stamford,
Connecticut-based researcher said.  
 U.S. Business  
 The U.S. accounted for  24 percent  of the order backlog at
the end of the second quarter, up from 19 percent at the end of
March, ASML said. Intel and other so-called integrated design
manufacturers accounted for 28 percent of the backlog as of
June 27.  
 “We made progress with every one of our customers” in
the U.S., Chief Executive Officer  Eric Meurice  told analysts
in a conference call, declining to give names.  
 The increase in orders from the U.S. “likely means Intel
placed orders for 22 nanometer machines,” which can produce
circuits of that measurement, said  Peter Olofsen , an Amsterdam-
based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets. Olofsen has a “hold”
recommendation on the shares.  
 ASML is the world’s largest maker of machines to project
lines on the silicon slices from which chips are made. Its main
rival is  Nikon Corp.  of Japan. Applied Materials Inc., based in
Santa Clara, California, is the world’s largest maker of
semiconductor equipment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        