-- AT&T Cable Customers May Lose Access to `Mad Men' in Cablevision Dispute
-- Kelly Riddell
-- 2010-07-14T20:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/at-t-cable-customers-may-lose-access-to-mad-men-in-cablevision-dispute.html

          
          
             AT&T Inc. ’s U-Verse video customers
may lose access to “Mad Men” and other shows on AMC, WE TV and
IFC tonight if it can’t make a deal with the networks’ parent
company Rainbow Media Holdings LLC over distribution fees.  
 Rainbow is “not negotiating in good faith,” and is trying
to charge “significantly” more than the average of what AT&T’s
competitors pay, AT&T said in a statement today. Rainbow Media
is owned by New York-area cable provider  Cablevision Systems
Corp.  The contract between AT&T and Rainbow to air the channels
expires at midnight tonight.  
 As competition for TV viewers and advertisers increases,
content owners have been looking for higher fees from pay-TV
companies. Pay-TV companies have resisted, saying increased
costs push up consumers’ bills.  
 There have been at least two blackouts this year resulting
from such disputes. Cablevision had to stop airing  Scripps
Networks Interactive Inc. ’s HGTV and Food Network channels from
Jan. 1 until Jan. 21 after Scripps pulled its signal. The
Academy Awards were also blacked out for about 13 minutes into
the show on March 7 after  Disney Co. ’s ABC network yanked its
signal from Cablevision the night before.  
 AT&T and Cablevision today joined a lobbying group urging
federal regulators to change the rules that allow broadcasters
to cut their signals during contract disputes. AT&T U-verse
subscribers will lose Rainbow’s channels if the two companies
remain at an impasse.  
 Subscriber Base  
 On average, pay-TV providers such as Comcast Corp. pay 24
cents per subscriber per month for AMC, 21 cents for IFC and 12
cents for WE TV, according to industry research from SNL Kagan.
AT&T’s pay-TV subscriber base is 2.3 million U-Verse video
customers, compared with 23 million for Comcast and 19 million
U.S. subscribers for satellite provider DirecTV, according to
the companies’ most recent earnings reports.  
 AMC received 26 Emmy nominations last week for programs
including “Mad Men.” The season premiere of the show, which
has won best dramatic series for two straight years, is
scheduled for July 25.  
 “Our executives have been at AT&T U-Verse offices for
several weeks, doing everything possible to reach an agreement
that will keep AMC’s ‘Mad Men,’ and other programming from AMC,
WE TV and IFC available to their customers,” Rainbow said in an
e-mailed statement today. The company added it has never had its
networks dropped in more than 25 years and is “disappointed”
that AT&T is publicly threatening to remove its programming.  
 AT&T, based in Dallas, rose 1 cent to $24.96 at 4:01 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have
lost 11 percent this year.  Cablevision  fell 49 cents to $25.81.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        