-- Tata Coffee, Asia's Largest Grower, Plans to Build First Factory in Africa
-- Jay Shankar
-- 2010-07-14T11:19:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/tata-coffee-asia-s-largest-grower-plans-to-build-first-factory-in-africa.html

          
          
             Tata Coffee Ltd. , Asia’s largest
publicly traded grower of the bean, may invest 1.3 billion
rupees ($27.7 million) in a factory to make instant coffee in
Africa to meet rising global demand.  
 The company, majority-owned by  Tata Global Beverages Ltd. ,
may build the plant in Uganda, Africa’s biggest producer of the
robusta variety, Kenya or central Africa, Managing Director
 Hameed Huq  said in an interview. Tata Coffee may also consider
acquiring a company in the continent, he said.  
 Bangalore-based Tata Coffee expects a global economic
recovery to help boost demand for instant coffee, a market
valued at $19.6 billion, according to researcher Euromonitor
International.  Starbucks Corp. , the world’s largest coffee-shop
operator, in April raised its annual forecast after reporting
second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates, helped by
sales of Via instant coffee.  
 “As Europe and other nations come out of recession we will
be looking to expand our instant coffee capacity,”  Huq  said in
an interview today. “The rate of development we are seeing in
Asia or Africa, we are not seeing in Europe.”  
 Robusta futures have gained 32 percent on London’s Liffe
exchange on reduced supplies from main producers and rising
demand.  
 Increasing Consumption  
 The prices of robusta at about $1,700 a metric ton is a
“good price,” Huq said. “I don’t see coffee prices coming
down as global consumption is going up by two percent and carry-
forward stocks are not large. So it is a fairly bullish
market.”  
 Tata Coffee, which has more than  doubled  in the past year,
fell 0.6 percent to 416.20 rupees at close of trading in Mumbai,
after gaining as much as 2.7 percent. The benchmark Sensitive
Index declined 0.3 percent.  
 The company is 57 percent  owned  by Tata Global Beverages,
formerly known as Tata Tea Ltd., a unit of India’s second-
biggest industrial group.  
 Exports from India, Asia’s third-largest coffee supplier,
have gained this year after production rebounded from a year
earlier, according to the state-owned  Coffee Board .  
 Tata Coffee and its domestic rivals shipped 161,974 tons
between Jan. 1 and July 12, compared with 107,990 tons a year
earlier, data from the board showed. The shipments were valued
at $343.6 million, 43 percent more than a year earlier.  
 “Export markets look very good,” Huq said. The company’s
green beans and instant coffee exports have grown
“substantially” in the last three months, he said, without
elaborating.  
 ‘Upwardly Mobile’  
 Domestic consumption has more than doubled to 100,000 tons
from a decade ago, Huq said. “Consumption will grow as it is
being consumed by the upwardly mobile middle class.”  
 Cafe Coffee Day, India’s biggest coffee-cafe chain, Barista
Coffee Co., a unit of Italy’s  Lavazza SpA , and rivals have
opened 1,200 shops in the past decade as people in the world’s
largest tea-growing nation develop a taste for cappuccinos,  G.V. Krishna Rau , chairman of the Coffee Board said in April.  
 Global coffee output may rise 12 percent to 135 million
bags next season, led by gains in Brazil, the world’s largest
grower, the International Coffee Organization said. A bag weighs
60 kilograms (132 pounds).  
 Production in India may reach a record 308,000 tons in the
year starting Oct. 1, the board said last month. That may lift
exports to 220,000 tons in the next season,  Ramesh Rajah ,
president of the exporters association.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jay Shankar  in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        