-- Australia Delays Decision on Santos, BG Coal-Seam Gas Projects to October
-- James Paton
-- 2010-07-14T01:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/australia-delays-decision-on-santos-bg-coal-seam-gas-projects-to-october.html

          
          
             The Australian government delayed by
three months a decision on whether to approve liquefied natural
gas projects proposed by  Santos Ltd.  and BG Group Plc as it
studies their potential impact on the environment.  
 Australian Environment Minister  Peter Garrett  extended a
review of the Queensland coal-seam gas projects to Oct. 11,
spokesman Ben Pratt said today. While Queensland cleared the
projects, the state government in May and June raised concerns
the “significant amount” of water and salt extracted from the
coal seams may pose environmental risks.  
 “These are the first coal-seam gas projects that have been
assessed under national environment law, and it’s important that
the potentially significant environmental impacts of these
projects” are properly examined, Pratt said.  
 Santos, Australia’s third-largest oil and gas producer, is
among companies planning to convert coal-seam gas to liquid form
in Queensland for export to Asia. The project proposed by BG,
the  U.K.’s third-biggest natural gas producer , may cost as much
as A$15 billion ($13 billion) to develop, Australian Resources
and Energy Minister  Martin Ferguson  said in June.  
 BG’s “position hasn’t changed” and still expects a final
investment decision later in 2010 after receiving environmental
approvals, said Mark Todd, a spokesman for the company’s
Brisbane-based unit. Santos continues to target a decision this
year and will provide further details to Garrett “promptly,”
said  Matthew Doman , a spokesman for the company in Adelaide.  
 Santos fell 0.2 percent to A$13.79 in Sydney, compared with
a 1.5 percent gain in the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index .  
 BG, based in Reading, won approval from Queensland Co-
ordinator General Colin Jensen in June, and Santos received
clearance in May. Royal Dutch Shell Plc and  Origin Energy Ltd. 
also propose coal-seam gas-to-LNG developments in Queensland.  
 The additional time will allow the companies to provide
further information on “areas identified as deficient” in the
coordinator-general’s report, Pratt said. Garrett took the same
approach to approving Chevron Corp.’s A$43 billion Gorgon LNG
venture off the nation’s northwest coast, Pratt said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        