-- Australian Consumer Confidence Jumps Most in 13 Months as Rates Unchanged
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-07-14T00:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/australian-consumer-confidence-jumps-most-in-13-months-as-rates-unchanged.html

          
          
             Australian  consumer confidence 
surged in July by the most in 13 months, reversing the previous
three months of declines, after the central bank kept borrowing
costs unchanged and global financial markets stabilized.  
 The sentiment index jumped 11.1 percent to 113.1 points,
according to a Westpac Banking Corp. and Melbourne Institute
survey of 1,200 consumers conducted between July 5 and July 11
and released today in Sydney.  
 Today’s report adds to signs households are weathering the
most aggressive round of interest rate increases by a Group of
20 member as the nation’s economy benefits from China’s demand
for raw materials. The survey was conducted the same week that
Governor  Glenn Stevens  kept the  benchmark lending rate  unchanged
on July 6 for a second month, and a report showed Australian job
growth capped the best quarter in almost four years in June.  
 “The solid base for consumer sentiment is coming from an
upbeat view on the economy,” said  Bill Evans , chief economist
at Westpac Bank in Sydney. “We saw a comparable surge in
confidence in 2009 when households realized that Australia had
avoided recession.”  
 The Australian dollar rose to 88.47 U.S. cents at 10:33 a.m.
in Sydney from 88.44 cents just before the report was released.
The two-year government bond yield was unchanged at 4.48 percent.  
 Since last month’s survey, the Labor government has
replaced former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  with  Julia Gillard  and
agreed with the nation’s biggest mining companies on an industry
tax. The local benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index also jumped 4.6
percent last week, the first gain in four weeks.  
 Rate Pressure  
 Today’s report may also increase pressure on Governor
Stevens to resume a series of interest rate increases that have
taken the benchmark rate to 4.5 percent in May from a half-
century low of 3 percent at the start of October.  
 “The return of the confidence level to 11.4 percent above
its long term average only adds to the case for a rate hike,”
Evans said.  
 Australia’s economy, one of few to skirt last year’s global
recession, shows signs of strengthening.  Employers  added 45,900
jobs in June, exceeding all 22 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey, a report showed July 8. The jobless rate held at 5.1
percent from the revised reading for May, almost half the level
of the U.S.  
 Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said the budget will return to surplus
within three years as the government prepares to release new
details on mining tax revenue.  
 Swan will release revised economic forecasts today, the
first update to the nation’s outlook since Gillard became prime
minister on June 24 and revamped the mining levy that the
treasurer said on July 2 will deliver revenue of A$10.5 billion
($9.3 billion) in its first two years -- A$1.5 billion less than
the resource tax proposed in May by ousted leader Rudd.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        