-- Aviva Buys Italian, U.K. Bonds, Sells Greece on Outperformance `Epiphany'
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-07-14T11:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/aviva-buys-italian-u-k-bonds-sells-greece-on-outperformance-epiphany-.html

          
          
             Aviva Investors , the fund unit of
Britain’s second-largest insurer, increased its holdings of
Italian and U.K. government bonds, betting they may outperform
amid the European sovereign debt crisis.  
 The company, which oversees about $403 billion in assets,
holds more debt from Italy than recommended by benchmark indexes
used to track performance, said  Shahid Ikram , head of sovereign
and absolute returns in London. He sold off his entire holding
of Greek bonds in the second quarter, and also sold longer-dated
index-linked bonds on concern spending cuts intended to narrow
government budget deficits will damp consumer price growth.  
 “We like Italy because of its liquidity and the fact that
its bonds enjoy inherent demand from local banks,” said Ikram.
“The U.K. will get premiums, at least in the near term, for its
clarity in terms of its approach in cutting the deficit. Greece
has shown how bad it can be if you get it wrong.”  
 Italian bonds have beaten the debt of other so-called
peripheral euro nations this year, rising 1.5 percent, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
won cabinet approval on May 25 for about 25 billion euros of
budget cuts to shrink the deficit to 2.7 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012, from 5.3 percent last year.  
 Portuguese securities declined 3.7 percent in the period,
with Greece down 18 percent.  
 Italy is not among the countries most at risk from Europe’s
spreading debt crisis and its credit outlook for 2010 remains
stable, Moody’s Investors Service said in a report in May.  
 Greek Bill Sale  
 Concern countries in the region may keep struggling to trim
their debts helped send the  yield premium  investors demand to
hold Greek 10-year bonds instead of similar-maturity German debt
above 800 basis points last week for the first time since just
before European leaders announced a 750 billion-euro ($953
billion) aid package on May 10.  
 The spread dropped nine basis points yesterday to 755 basis
points, or 7.55 percentage points, after Greece sold 26-week
Treasury bills at an interest rate below the 5 percent charged
by the EU when it rescued the nation from default.  
 Ikram said he decided to start paring his Greek bond
holdings in January, when the country raised 8 billion euros in
a five-year note auction after receiving 25 billion euros in
orders.  
 “For me, the epiphany came in January,” he said. “They
should have sold more at a higher yield. They underestimated
their own problem, and miscalculated the sense of investor
concern.”  
 ‘Still Nervous’  
 Aviva Plc’s fund unit has so-called underweight positions
on other peripheral countries including Spain and Portugal,
Ikram said.  
 “Our clients are still nervous about what’s going on in
those economies,” said Ikram. “These markets are cheap. The
risk is they could become cheaper.”  
 Portuguese 10-year bonds declined yesterday, when the
nation had its credit ranking cut two levels to A1 at Moody’s
Investors Service. The ratings company cited risks economic
growth will remain weak after the nation allowed its budget
deficit to balloon.  
 Gilts have outperformed bunds since Prime Minister David
Cameron’s government presented its emergency budget on June 22.  
 Aviva began to increase its holdings of U.K. gilts before
the election on May 6 on bets that the deepening sovereign-debt
crisis across Europe meant any party that assumed power would
have few options but to tackle the deficit.  
 “The market is demanding fiscal rectitude, and the
government has to give it to win back confidence,” Ikram said.
“The Cameron camp probably got it right.”  
 U.K. government bonds returned 3.3 percent since May 6, the
date of the election, while German bonds returned 1.5 percent
the Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        