-- BaWang Halts Trading After Shares Decline on Shampoo Cancer-Risk Report
-- Wendy Leung
-- 2010-07-14T09:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/bawang-declines-in-hong-kong-on-magazine-report-of-carcinogen-in-shampoo.html

          
          
             BaWang International (Group) Holding
Ltd. , China’s largest herbal shampoo maker, halted trading after
its shares fell by a record in Hong Kong on a report that two of
the company’s products contain a substance that may cause cancer.  
 BaWang , which said today that the amounts of the substance
are too small to affect human health, slid 14 percent to HK$5.05
at the noon trading break. That was the steepest decline since
the shares debuted July 3, 2009. The stock was the biggest loser
on the  Hang Seng Composite Index , which gained 1 percent.  
 Samples of  BaWang ’s anti hair-loss formula shampoo and its
Royal Wind brand endorsed by Chinese pop singer  Faye Wong  had 10
parts per million of 1,4-dioxane, a substance that may cause
cancer, Next Magazine reported, citing test results by Hong
Kong-based inspection and analysis company  SGS .  
 BaWang said in an email that it reserves the right to take
legal action against Next Magazine. The weekly declined to
comment on any possible litigation. Editor-in-Chief Lee Chi-ho
said by phone that a safe shampoo “must not contain any
dioxane.”  
 The shampoo doesn’t cause any harm to humans as the amount
of 1,4-dioxane it contains is very small, the magazine cited
Chief Executive  Wan Yuhua  as saying. The substance is found in
most shampoo brands, Wan told the magazine.  
 ‘Strict Control’  
 “Bawang will strive for strict control over its production
process,” the company said in its e-mail. The company will
“further reduce residue, bringing better products to the
consumer,” it said.  
 The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services considers
1,4-dioxane as “reasonably anticipated to be a human
carcinogen,” according to its  website . The Occupational Safety
and Health Administration has set a limit for of 100 parts 1,4-
dioxane per 1 million parts of air in the workplace.  
 BaWang  issued a Chinese-language statement today that said
its products comply with Chinese, Hong Kong, European Union and
U.S. FDA standards. The levels of 1,4-dioxane contained in
BaWang’s shampoos are far lower than those recommended in
international safety guidelines and have no impact on human
health, it said.  
 Calls to SGS seeking comment weren’t returned.  
 BaWang shares have  lost  6.5 percent this year, compared
with a 5.3 percent decline for the  Hang Seng Composite Index .
Before today’s drop,  BaWang  had advanced 8.9 percent since the
start of the year.  
 The Guangzhou, southern China-based company, which raised
HK$1.67 billion ($215 million) in a Hong Kong initial public
offering last year, also uses action movie star  Jackie Chan  to
promote its products.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        