-- Berlusconi Needs Confidence Vote on Austerity as His Hold on Power Weakens
-- Steve Scherer
-- 2010-07-15T07:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/berlusconi-needs-confidence-vote-on-austerity-as-his-hold-on-power-weakens.html

          
          
             Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  will put the survival of his government on the  line
today  to quell dissent within his own ranks and pass austerity
measures to trim the country’s budget deficit.  
 Berlusconi, whose popularity is at its lowest since coming
to power, needs parliament’s approval for 25 billion euros
($31.5 billion) in deficit cuts for the next two years as part
of an effort to shore up confidence in the euro region after
Greece’s near-default. In a confidence vote, the ruling party
stakes its survival on the outcome in a tool used to end debate
and bring dissenting allies in line.  
 The vote in the Senate in Rome comes as Berlusconi faces
growing public opposition from  Gianfranco Fini , his co-founder
of the People of Liberty party, and after he lost three members
of his government, including  two Cabinet members , in two months
to corruption scandals. His efforts to pass a law limiting news
coverage of criminal probes using police wiretaps has also
provoked protest from journalists and police.  
 “A lot of issues are coming to a head,” said  Antonio Noto , director of Rome-based IPR Marketing, which conducts a
monthly confidence poll. “Berlusconi’s shutting everyone up
with confidence votes, probably with a view to gathering his
troops for battle after the summer.”  
 The latest resignation came last night when  Nicola Cosentino , an undersecretary in the Finance Ministry, resigned
after being implicated in a regional influence-peddling scandal.
Cosentino, who faced a vote of no-confidence, denied any
wrongdoing in a  note  published today in newspaper Il Giornale.  
 Solid Majority  
 Berlusconi has the biggest parliamentary majority in modern
Italian history and has still resorted to 35 confidence votes
since his election in May 2008 to keep his deputies in line.  
 The budget cuts aim to bring a deficit of 5.3 percent of
gross domestic product last year within the EU limit of 3
percent in 2012. The measures are less severe than those adopted
in countries such as Spain and Greece, though they have still
angered Berlusconi allies in regional governments as the plan
will cut their funding by 4.5 billion euros next year, prompting
some local administrations to raise taxes and tolls and consider
asset sales to close budget gaps.  
 The austerity plan contributed to the popularity of the
three-time premier slumping to 41 percent in June, an IPR poll
of 1,000 Italians showed on June 17.  
 ‘Climate of Jacobinism’  
 Berlusconi compared the growing political tensions on July
13 to a  “a climate of Jacobinism,”  a reference to the
revolutionary movement that overthrew France’s monarchy in 1789.  
 His chief obstacle to completing his five-year term remains
Fini, who has been waiting for a decade to succeed the 73-year-
old Berlusconi as leader. The rift between the two went public
on April 22, when Berlusconi’s scolding of Fini at a nationally
broadcast party meeting degenerated into a shouting match. Far
from being silenced, the former head of the National Alliance
party has grown more defiant.  
 “Fini has always been his own man and has aimed at
building a respectable and European Italian right and over the
last year or so has made his disagreements with Berlusconi
increasingly manifest,” said  James Walston , who teaches
politics at American University in Rome.  
 Fini, 58, president of the Chamber of Deputies, has spoken
out against the wiretap bill and said on July 6 that “in a
democracy, the press can never have enough freedom.”  
 Judicial Conspiracy  
 Berlusconi, who has accused the country’s judges of
conspiring to destroy him politically, has pushed for a
crackdown on the widespread use of wiretaps.  
 Italy is one of the most bugged countries in Europe, and
the pervasive leaks of wiretaps and court documents mean that
public figures are often tried in the press before the courts,
he has said. Under the bill, journalists would risk jail time,
and publishers could be fined as much as 465,000 euros for
reporting the content of wiretaps before an indictment.  
 Fini’s ally, Giulia Bongiorno, president of the Chamber’s
justice committee, proposed  amendments on July 13  that would
remove fines against publishers and broaden significantly the
cases in which prosecutors could request wiretaps.  
 Berlusconi required a confidence vote to get the current
bill passed in the Senate and may use the same tool to try to
convert it to law in the Chamber of Deputies by the end of July.
Under the measure, some of the recent corruption cases that have
sapped confidence in Berlusconi’s administration may never have
come to light.  
 Ministers Resign  
 Industry Minister  Claudio Scajola  stepped down May 4 after
newspapers reported the content of court documents of an ongoing
probe that showed a builder who had been awarded government
contracts had helped finance the purchase of Scajola’s Rome
home. The minister has denied any wrongdoing.  
 That resignation was followed by that of Aldo Brancher, a
former executive at Berlusconi’s media company Fininvest SpA. He
quit after less than a month as minister of federalism after an
outcry over his attempt to use an immunity law for government
officials passed by Berlusconi to avoid a corruption trial.  
 Discontent over Berlusconi’s leadership has spilled into
the streets and threatened to tarnish what he considers his
greatest accomplishment: delivering emergency aid to victims of
the deadly 2009 earthquake in Abruzzo and leading reconstruction
of the region.  
 About 5,000 citizens from L’Aquila, the regional capital of
Abruzzo, traveled to Rome on July 7 to complain they had
received insufficient financial help. The protest turned violent
with Italian media reporting two demonstrators got beaten by
police, as they gathered outside Berlusconi’s residence and
shouted “Shame! Shame!”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Scherer  at 
 sscherer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Italy's Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi needs parliament approval for 25 billion euros ($31.5 billion) in deficit cuts for the next two years. Photographer: Andreas Solaro/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Alastair Newton, a senior political analyst at Nomura International Plc, talks about the Italian Senate's vote today on 25 billion euros ($31.5 billion) in deficit cuts for the next two years proposed by the government of Silvio Berlusconi.
     Newton speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
