-- Blagojevich Prosecutors Wrap Up Case in Chicago Trial
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-07-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/blagojevich-prosecutors-wrap-up-case-against-ex-governor-in-chicago-trial.html

          
          
             Rod Blagojevich , the former Illinois
governor on trial in Chicago on public corruption charges, can
begin presenting his defense to a federal court jury on July 19.  
 Federal prosecutors completed their presentation of
testimony and evidence yesterday, a little more than five weeks
into what U.S. District Judge  James B. Zagel  had told jurors
could be a three- to four-month trial.  
 A twice-elected Democrat, Blagojevich, 53, is accused of
trying to extract campaign contributions from supporters by
linking those donations to official acts, including the
appointment of a U.S. Senator to succeed President  Barack Obama .
The last witness to testify for the prosecution was Children’s
Memorial Hospital Chief Executive Officer Patrick Magoon.  
 “I felt threatened and I felt at risk and I felt a little
angry,” Magoon said of an October 2008 call he received from
the ex-governor’s brother seeking $25,000 in contributions.  
 Robert Blagojevich, 54, was chairman of the former
governor’s campaign finance committee in 2008. He too faces
criminal charges and is standing trial with his younger brother.
Both men have denied wrongdoing.  
 Rod Blagojevich has said he will take the witness stand.
Defense lawyers have issued subpoenas for the testimony of U.S.
Representative  Jesse Jackson Jr. , White House adviser  Valerie Jarrett  and  Rahm Emanuel , Obama’s chief of staff.  
 “The defense in this case is a lack of willfulness,” that
the governor did not intend to commit any crime, Sam Adam Sr.,
an attorney for the governor, told the judge yesterday while the
jury was out of the courtroom.  
 State Reimbursement  
 Testifying yesterday, Magoon, 57, who also served as board
 chairman  for the 200-member Illinois Hospital Association, said
Robert Blagojevich called him less than a week after the
governor told the CEO that the Chicago-based hospital would
receive a $10 million increase in reimbursements for its
pediatric specialists.  
 Magoon said he had been lobbying for such an increase for
several years and had resorted to sending a two-page hand-
written letter to the governor. He said he also enlisted former
hospital board member and Chicago Cubs baseball team manager
 Dusty Baker  to press his cause with Blagojevich.  
 The funding increase, Magoon said, came with the governor’s
caveat that it wouldn’t become effective until January 2009 and
that the children’s hospital should do nothing to publicize it
until then.  
 Fundraising Deadline  
 Robert Blagojevich’s deadline for raising the campaign
money was also Jan. 1, as was a change in Illinois law that
would bar political contributions from entities doing business
with the state, Magoon said.  
 “I felt pressured,” Magoon said. He said that while he
didn’t want to raise money, he believed refusing to do so could
lead the governor to rescind the increase.  
 Magoon said he told a hospital attorney about the
communiqués, decided to take no further calls from either Rod or
Robert Blagojevich, and instructed his staff to record incoming
calls.  
 Under cross-examination by an attorney for the former
governor, Magoon said the increase took effect in January
without any fundraising by him. He also said he had personally
donated money to earlier Blagojevich campaigns.  
 Jurors heard testimony yesterday from Rod Blagojevich’s
former congressional aide, John Wyma, who is now a lobbyist.  
 Emanuel Brothers  
 Wyma, 43, told the court that Emanuel, then a Chicago
congressman, sought a state grant in 2006 for a charter school
in his district. Wyma said either the governor or  Lon Monk , a
former aide to the governor, asked him to press Emanuel or his
brother Ari to raise money for the Blagojevich campaign.  
 Ari Emanuel  is co-CEO of the William Morris Agency, a
Beverly Hills talent firm. Wyma said he declined to relay the
request.  
 “The timing was bad,” Wyma said. To ask to have a
fundraiser while Emanuel had unresolved business with the state
“was poor judgment,” he said. He didn’t reach out until after
the question of the grant had been resolved, Wyma said.  
 “I was increasingly alarmed by the level of
aggressiveness,” Wyma told prosecutors. Later, under cross-
examination, he said he decided to contact the Federal Bureau of
Investigation after receiving a subpoena to testify before a
federal grand jury in another probe.  
 Wyma said he was testifying yesterday after being granted
immunity by prosecutors.  
 Rod Blagojevich faces as long as 20 years in prison if
convicted of the most serious charges. He was impeached by the
state legislature and removed from office in January 2009.  
 The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-00888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Rod Blagojevich, former governor of Illinois. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 3 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker reports on major newsmakers in today's Movers & Shakers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
