-- BOE's Haldane Says Basel Regulators Want to Stop Banks' `Miracle' Returns
-- Sakshi Sharma
-- 2010-07-14T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/boe-s-haldane-says-basel-regulators-want-to-stop-banks-miracle-returns.html

          
          
             Bank regulators want to stop lenders
from making “miracle” returns that were an “illusion”
created by taking on too much risk, said  Andrew Haldane , a
member of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  
 Haldane, executive director for financial stability at the
Bank of England, spoke yesterday at a conference organized by
the London School of Economics before traveling to Basel,
Switzerland, for a two-day meeting of regulators from 27 nations
and territories.  
 “At the height of a boom, both regulators and the
regulated are prone to believe in miracles,” Haldane said
yesterday in London. “Regulatory measures are being put in
place to block off last time’s risk strategies, including
through recalibrated leverage and capital ratios.”  
 The Basel committee is debating how to define capital and
how high to raise capital and liquidity ratios for banks
worldwide after the worst financial crisis since the 1930s. The
U.K. and the U.S., which have pushed for tougher standards, may
bow to pressure from France, Germany and other countries
concerned that their banks and economies won’t be able to bear
the burden of higher capital requirements until a recovery takes
hold, according to members of the committee.  
 Haldane declined to comment on progress at the committee,
which is due to finish its work on the new rules by the time
Group of 20 leaders meet in Seoul in November.  
 Lisa Weekes , a spokeswoman for the Bank for International
Settlements, which provides administrative support for the
committee, declined to comment on the talks.  
 ‘Excess Returns’  
 Haldane said some banks had “disguised” how much risk
they took on in the search for increased yield, as they borrowed
more and more to boost their return on equity, swelling their
balance sheets even as returns on assets fell or stayed flat.  
 “Excess returns -- from leverage, trading books and out-
of-the-money options -- were built on an inability to measure
and price risk,” he said, according to a copy of the  speech  on
the Bank of England’s website. “The productivity miracle was in
fact a risk illusion.”  
 That “illusion” is an obstacle for regulators who are
trying to figure out the real contribution of financial services
to economic growth, Haldane said.  
 “A banking system that does not accurately assess and
price risk is not adding much value to the economy,” he said.
“Banks’ profits, like their contribution to GDP, may have been
flattered by the mismeasurement of risk. The crisis has
subsequently exposed the extent of this increased risk-taking.”  
 Economic Contribution  
 The banking industry’s economic contribution and the cost
of new rules are matters of dispute. The Institute of
International Finance, which represents more than 375 financial
companies including  Citigroup Inc.  and  Deutsche Bank AG , has
said the new Basel rules could erase 3.1 percent of gross
domestic product in the U.S., the euro region and Japan by 2015.  
 BIS General Manager  Jaime Caruana  has said his
organization’s economic studies “do not point to a growth
problem.”  
 As well as facing resistance from banks, the Basel
committee is struggling to reach a consensus among nations.
French and German regulators are leading efforts to limit the
new rules and to allow more time for implementation, bankers,
regulators and lobbyists involved in the talks have said.  
 “There are still huge difficulties ahead,”  Charles Goodhart , a former Bank of England policy maker and professor at
the  London School of Economics , said in an interview at
yesterday’s conference. “The difficulty is that the regulation
relates to law, and the problem is that the legal basis of all
our financial relationships differs from country to country.”  
 ‘Crucial Decisions’  
 The Basel committee is in the midst of “crucial
decisions” that will form the basis of U.K. and European Union
financial regulation,  Adair Turner , chairman of the U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority, said yesterday. “That is the
absolute core process of us creating a sounder regulatory
system.”  
 The FSA, which is also represented on the Basel committee,
is restructuring after Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said he will abolish the financial regulator and give
most of its power to the Bank of England by 2012, undoing the
regulatory system set up by  Gordon Brown  in 1997.  
 The Bank of England’s Haldane yesterday highlighted three
areas for regulators to focus on in the future: improving the
measurement of the true value added by the financial sector;
stopping the buildup of risk; and gathering reliable data on the
different business lines inside banks.  
 “The financial sector has undergone an astonishing roller
coaster in the course of a decade,” Haldane said. “The ascent
to heaven and subsequent descent to hell has been every bit as
dramatic as in the 1930s.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Clark  in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net ;
Sakshi Sharma in London at 
 ssharma121@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        