-- BP Delays Test of Leaking Gulf Well Until U.S. Approves
-- Jessica Resnick-Ault
-- 2010-07-14T14:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/bp-delays-test-of-new-cap-at-leaking-gulf-well-until-u-s-gives-go-ahead.html

          
          
             BP Plc  delayed testing on its latest
effort to stop the largest U.S. oil spill in history after the
Obama administration ordered further study of the plan to seal a
well that’s been spewing crude into the ocean since April.  
 Industry and government scientists will meet at midday to
devise procedures for a pressure test that will be done once the
 company  stops the flow of oil with a 40-foot (12-meter) valve
stack secured to the well July 12, BP Senior Vice President  Kent Wells  told reporters today on a conference call. The test will
determine whether the cap can remain in place without causing
the Gulf of Mexico well to burst open elsewhere.  
 The delay came after Energy Secretary  Steven Chu  and a team
of experts said more analysis was needed, National Incident
Commander  Thad Allen  said in a statement last night. The test
aims to determine if the Macondo well can be safely shut before
BP is ready to plug it permanently with cement. BP said the
delay pushed back the schedule for a relief well it’s drilling
to plug Macondo by a day or two.  
 “What we don’t want to do is move forward with a test that
ends up with inconclusive results,” Wells said. “We just need
to make sure there’s absolute clarity that this is the right
test, that this will give us the most information, that this
will minimize the  risk .”  
 Macondo has been leaking as much as 60,000 barrels of oil a
day, according to a government estimate, after an April 20
drilling-rig explosion that killed 11 workers. London-based BP
planned to begin the pressure test July 12 or yesterday.  
 ‘Remote Risk’  
 Improper test procedures pose a “remote risk” of cracking
the well casing and causing oil and natural gas to erupt from
the seabed, Wells said. He said a successful test could help
guide the well-plugging procedure.  
 Drilling of the first of two relief wells, now about 4.5
feet (1.4 meters) from Macondo’s leaking bore, was suspended for
the pressure test as a precaution, Wells said.  
 “There are too many cooks in the kitchen,” said  David Pursell , an analyst at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. in Houston and
a former petroleum engineer who conducted pressure tests.
“Everybody in this process has said the single and best chance
of stopping this flow is the relief well, and now they’ve held
up the relief well while they’re figuring out protocol.”  
 BP  fell as much as 4.7 percent in London trading after
rallying for two days on optimism that the company was close to
ending the spill.  
 Pressure Test  
 The disaster at one point wiped out more than half of BP’s
 stock value , forced the company to suspend its dividend, halted
deep-water drilling in the U.S. and closed as much as 37 percent
of the Gulf of Mexico to fishing as the oil spread. BP has spent
more than $3.5 billion responding to the spill.  
 Once the test begins,  BP  may need 48 hours of data to
declare the well safe to seal, Wells said. Experts may know
within six hours if the wellbore is leaking and can’t be sealed,
he said.  
 “If all of a sudden, they have a pressure drop, they’re
going to open that thing wide up and leave it alone,”  Don Van Nieuwenhuise , director of Petroleum Geoscience Programs at the
 University of Houston , said yesterday in an interview. “A quick
drop means a leak closer to the seabed, where oil and gas might
work their way to the surface.”  
 The new cap has pressure-monitoring equipment that wasn’t
available in May, when  BP  and the government abandoned efforts
to seal Macondo from above. Without that equipment, operators
wouldn’t know if shutting the valves forced oil and gas to
rupture the well elsewhere, the company said earlier this week.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Jessica Resnick-Ault  in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Oil gushes from a valve atop the failed blowout preventer at the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill site in the Gulf of Mexico off the coast of Louisiana Source: BP Plc via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
