-- BP Loses Control of Cushing, Oklahoma, Oil Storage With Tank, Pipe Sales
-- Mark Shenk
-- 2010-07-14T09:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/bp-giving-up-control-of-cushing-oklahoma-oil-storage-with-magellan-sale.html

          
          
             BP Plc  is moving away from storage
ownership at a key U.S. oil delivery point as it cedes control
of its tanks in Cushing, Oklahoma, as part of a $289 million
sale of assets to  Magellan Midstream Partners LP .  
 BP will sell 7.8 million barrels of storage at Cushing,
where benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude is delivered. BP’s
oil-trading business, which now has the advantage of physical
oil storage, will rely on contracts with Magellan and others
after the sale.  
 “After selling their storage at Cushing, they become just
another trader,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic
Energy & Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts. “They
will be cyber traders like many others and not involved in the
physical side of the market.”  
 BP, which is fighting the largest oil spill in the U.S.,
last month agreed to deposit $20 billion in an independent
account to pay compensation to victims of the disaster. It plans
to sell $10 billion in assets to pay for damage from the April
20 Macondo well blowout, which has already cost the company more
than $3.5 billion. BP started negotiating the deal with Magellan
in February.  
 As part of the transaction, BP will also sell pipelines
that connect refineries in southern Texas, including BP’s plant
in Texas City.  
 Lease Storage  
 Magellan will continue to lease Cushing storage to BP under
a multiyear agreement.  Don Wellendorf , chief executive officer
of Magellan, a Tulsa-based pipeline operator, declined to
specify the length of the contract or the amount of storage BP
will use.  
 Toby Odone , a BP spokesman, declined to comment.  
 For BP, the sale may signal a move away from oil trading,
said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in
New York.  
 Talks to sell the pipelines and storage were started in
February, months before the well exploded, Wellendorf said.  
 BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  said in 2007 he
would restructure some of the company’s operations because its
organization grew too complex. The company cut jobs in its U.S.
supply and trading business in October 2007.  
 The sale of the tanks at Cushing will help Magellan become
one of the biggest storage operators at the central Oklahoma
hub, where it has 2 million barrels of capacity under
construction.  
 Oil Sands  
 The Texas pipeline system will benefit from production in
Canada’s oil sands, which could boost shipments by as much as
150,000 barrels a day, Magellan’s Wellendorf said in a
conference call.  
 BP’s Texas City refinery, the third-biggest in the U.S.,
will be one of the largest customers for crude shipped on
Magellan’s system. Pipes in the acquired system also carry fuel
away from the refinery.  
 The refinery will continue to be a major customer for the
system even if BP isn’t the owner, Wellendorf said.  
 “It doesn’t matter who owns it,” Wellendorf said. The
refinery is “one of the least likely” in the U.S. to be shut,
he said.  
 The assets sold to Magellan are “one of the most-prized
assets that they had in play,” said  Carl Larry , president of
Oil Outlooks and Opinions LLC. The storage and pipelines offer
steady income with minimal environmental and regulatory
restrictions, Larry said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gene Laverty  in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        