-- BP, Gartmore Group, Minerva Plc May Be Active: U.K., Irish Equity Preview
-- Adam Ewing
-- 2010-07-15T06:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/bp-plc-gartmore-group-ltd-minerva-plc-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in U.K. and Irish
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and prices are from
the last market close.  
 The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  fell 17.5, or 0.3 percent, to
5,253.52. The  FTSE All-Share Index  dropped 0.4 percent and
Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  declined 0.1 percent.  
 Ashmore Group Plc  (ASHM LN): The U.K. money manager that
focuses on emerging markets was downgraded to “hold” from
“buy” at Citigroup Inc. The shares jumped 3.9 percent to 273.9
pence.  
 BP Plc  (BP/ LN): The oil company should stop a planned
drilling campaign in Libya while links between the oil producer
and the release of Lockerbie bomber Abdelbaset al-Megrahi are
investigated, a group of U.S. senators said. BP said it would
begin a pressure test of its gushing Gulf of Mexico well after
fixing a leak that erupted while it was shutting off oil flow
with a new containment cap. Separately, T. Boone Pickens, the
billionaire energy investor, said that BP is a good investment.
The shares fell 2.3 percent to 401 pence.  
 BT Group Plc  (BT/A LN): The U.K.’s biggest fixed-line phone
operator was downgraded to “hold” from “buy” at Deutsche
Bank AG. The shares slipped 0.8 percent to 142.3 pence.  
 Gartmore Group Ltd.  (GRT LN):  Guillaume Rambourg , who was
suspended by the U.K. fund manager in an internal probe after
allegations he broke internal policy, has announced his
resignation from the company. The stock advanced 1 percent to
110.1 pence.  
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc  (GSK LN): The drugmaker can keep
selling its diabetes pill Avandia, a U.S. panel said after
evaluating the drug’s heart risks. The company said it expects
to record a 1.57 billion-pound ($2.4 billion) legal charge in
the second quarter to settle legal cases including lawsuits that
alleged Avandia led to heart attacks. The shares rose 0.4
percent to 1,181.5 pence.  
 Minerva Plc  (MNR LN): The developer of the most office
space in London’s main financial district rejected a proposal by
 Nathan Kirsh ’s KiFin Ltd., its largest investor, to replace
Chief Executive Officer  Salmaan Hasan  and Chairman  Oliver Whitehead . The shares declined 1.7 percent to 102.25 pence.  
 For Related News and Information:
Global stocks stories: TOP STK <GO>
FTSE 100 market map: UKX <Index> IMAP <GO>
FTSE 100 Valuations: UKX <Index> UKX <Index> GRE W <GO>
Feature stories on stocks: TNI STK GREET <GO>  
          
          


  


        