-- BP to Start Drilling Off Libya as U.S. Senators Seek Lockerbie Link Probe
-- Eduard Gismatullin
-- 2010-07-14T15:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/bp-to-start-drilling-off-libya-as-u-s-senators-seek-lockerbie-link-probe.html

          
          
             BP Plc  should stop a planned
drilling campaign in Libya while links between the oil producer
and the release of Lockerbie bomber Abdelbaset al-Megrahi are
investigated, a group of U.S. Senators said.  
 The London-based company has a rig in place to start a well
in the  Gulf of Sirt  after completing a seismic survey last year.
BP also plans to drill onshore in the  Ghadames basin  by the end
of the year,  Robert Wine , a spokesman for BP, said today.  
 BP, under political pressure to stop and clean up the worst
oil spill in U.S. history, signed an exploration agreement with
Libya’s National Oil Corp. in May 2007 during a visit by then-
U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair . U.S. senators, who yesterday
 asked  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  to examine whether BP
helped secure al-Megrahi’s freedom from a Scottish jail to
facilitate the deal, held a press conference today demanding BP
stop drilling in Libya.  
 “Evidence in the Deepwater Horizon disaster seems to
suggest that BP would put profit ahead of people,” Senators
 Frank Lautenberg  and  Robert Menendez  of New Jersey and  Charles Schumer  and  Kirsten Gillibrand  of New York wrote in the letter
to Clinton yesterday. “The question we now have to answer is,
was this corporation willing to trade justice in the murder of
270 innocent people for oil profits?”  
 Menendez, Schumer and Lautenberg held a press conference in
Washington this morning “to call for BP to suspend its oil
drilling plans in Libya,”  Mike Morey , a spokesman for Schumer,
wrote in an e-mail.  
 Oil Reserves  
 Libya has proved oil reserves of 44.3 billion barrels, the
most in Africa, according to the BP Statistical Review of World
Energy. BP’s worldwide operations have come under examination
after an unstable well caused an explosion on the Deepwater
Horizon rig in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, killing 11 and
starting an oil spill.  
 “Libya due to start in a matter of weeks,” Wine said
today in an e-mail. “Rig is being made ready, final
preparations and checks are underway.”  
 In August 2009, the Scottish government freed al-Megrahi on
compassionate grounds. He was the only person found guilty of
the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland,
that killed 270 people.  
 ‘Public Record’  
 “It is a matter of public record that in late 2007 BP
discussed with the U.K. government our concern at the slow
progress in concluding a Prisoner Transfer Agreement,” the
company said today.  
 “We were aware that a delay might have negative
consequences for U.K. commercial interests, including
ratification of BP’s exploration agreement. However, we did not
express a view about the specific form of the agreement, which
was a matter for the U.K. and Libyan governments,” it said in
statement e-mailed to Bloomberg News.  
 Libya formally accepted responsibility for the Lockerbie
attack in 2003 and agreed to pay up to $2.7 billion in damages
to families of the victims. Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi 
finished settling claims of U.S. Lockerbie victims with a $1.5
billion installment last year.  
 The country was removed from the U.S. list of states
sponsoring terrorism in 2006 after Qaddafi agreed to give up
chemical weapons and compensate Lockerbie victims.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Four U.S. senators yesterday asked Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to investigate whether BP helped secure the release of Lockerbie bomber Abdelbaset al-Megrahi from a Scottish jail to facilitate the drilling deal. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Frank Lautenberg of New Jersey. Photographer: Chris Kleponis/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
