-- BP to Proceed With Pressure Test on Leaking Well
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-07-14T22:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/bp-to-proceed-with-pressure-test-on-leaking-well.html

          
          
             BP Plc  got clearance from the U.S.
government to proceed with pressure testing on its leaking Gulf
of Mexico well, National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said.  
 The company will start testing later this evening, closing
valves to raise the pressure inside the well in six-hour
intervals, Allen said at a press conference in New Orleans.  
 BP may require 48 hours of test data to determine whether
it can safely seal the leak and stop the spill, which began
after an April 20 rig explosion. The test will determine whether
a containment cap can remain in place without causing the well
to burst open elsewhere.  
 The procedure was delayed more than 24 hours after Energy
Secretary  Steven Chu  and a team of experts said more analysis
was needed,  Allen  said. BP Senior Vice President  Kent Wells  said
earlier today the delay also pushed back the plan for a relief
well being drilled to plug the well by a day or two.  
 “What we don’t want to do is move forward with a test that
ends up with inconclusive results,” Wells said. “We just need
to make sure there’s absolute clarity that this is the right
test, that this will give us the most information, that this
will minimize the  risk .”  
 The Macondo well has been leaking as much as 60,000 barrels
of oil a day, according to a government estimate, since the
drilling-rig blast that killed 11 workers. London-based BP
planned to begin the test yesterday after securing a 40-foot
(12-meter) valve stack to the well July 12.  
 ‘Remote Risk’  
 Improper test procedures pose a “remote risk” of cracking
the well casing and causing oil and natural gas to erupt from
the seabed, Wells said. He said a successful test may help guide
the well-plugging procedure.  
 Drilling of the first of two relief wells, now about 4.5
feet (1.4 meters) from Macondo’s leaking bore, was suspended for
the pressure test as a precaution, Wells said.  
 “There are too many cooks in the kitchen,” said  David Pursell , an analyst at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. in Houston and
a former petroleum engineer who conducted pressure tests.
“Everybody in this process has said the single and best chance
of stopping this flow is the relief well, and now they’ve held
up the relief well while they’re figuring out protocol.”  
 BP  fell as much as 4.7 percent in London trading after
rallying for two days on optimism that the company was close to
ending the spill.  
 Pressure Test  
 The disaster at one point wiped out more than half of BP’s
 stock value , forced the company to suspend its dividend, halted
deep-water drilling in the U.S. and closed as much as 37 percent
of the Gulf of Mexico to fishing as the oil spread. BP has
pledged $20 billion to fund an account that will be used to pay
damages claims related to the spill.  
 The new cap has pressure-monitoring equipment that wasn’t
available in May, when  BP  and the government abandoned efforts
to seal Macondo from above. Without that equipment, operators
wouldn’t know if shutting the valves forced oil and gas to
rupture the well elsewhere, the company said earlier this week.  
 “If all of a sudden, they have a pressure drop, they’re
going to open that thing wide up and leave it alone,”  Don Van Nieuwenhuise , director of Petroleum Geoscience Programs at the
 University of Houston , said yesterday in an interview. “A quick
drop means a leak closer to the seabed, where oil and gas might
work their way to the surface.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        