-- BP Would Be Barred From New U.S. Leases in House Bill
-- Jim Efstathiou Jr.
-- 2010-07-14T18:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/bp-would-be-barred-from-new-u-s-offshore-leases-under-house-legislation.html

          
          
             BP Plc  would be barred from new U.S.
offshore leases to drill for oil or natural gas because of past
safety violations under an amendment approved by a House panel.  
 The House Natural Resources Committee adopted the amendment
by voice vote today while considering legislation to toughen
safety standards for offshore drilling after the BP spill in the
Gulf of Mexico.  
 “It’s a question of whether or not they get to exercise
the privilege of being able to drill going forward,” said
Representative  George Miller , a California Democrat who
sponsored the amendment. “One of the things you should bring to
this game is a safety record. You have a company that had an
egregious safety record, a fatal safety record.”  
 Companies with violations of federal or state safety
standards more than five times the industry average going back
seven years would be barred under the amendment. The measure
would also ban leases to companies that have received fines of
$10 million or more for violating the Clean Water Act as well as
those that have more than 10 fatalities at their facilities over
the period.  
 BP is the only company that would fail those standards,
Miller said. The new rules wouldn’t affect BP’s current leases,
and the company could continue to participate as a minority
partner on future leases, Miller said.  
 Refinery, Pipeline  
 Before the explosion at  BP’s  Gulf of Mexico well, which
killed 11 workers, a 2005 explosion at the company’s refinery in
Texas City, Texas, killed 15 workers, and a 2006 pipeline leak
dumped 200,000 gallons of crude at Prudhoe Bay, Alaska.  
 Miller said those incidents all figured into his amendment.
BP has been hit with more than 800 “egregious” violations at
its facilities over the past seven years compared with none by
most other operators, Miller said.  
 Current rules have “allowed an operator with a horrendous
and lethal safety record to go out and” drill on public lands,
Miller said.  
 Representative  Doc Hastings  of Washington, the senior
Republican on the House committee, said it’s too soon to enact
such changes before probes into the BP disaster are complete.
Texas Republican  Louie Gohmert  said he could support Miller’s
bar on BP.  
 “It sounds like an amendment I’d want to vote for,”
Gohmert said. “It does need some tweaking.”  
 Forcing Out Operator  
 Under current rules, the administration has the power to
force out BP as the operator of existing leases. The operator,
typically the partner with a majority interest, is designated
before drilling begins.  
 The Interior Department tracks each operator’s performance
and may “disapprove or revoke your designation as operator”
based on accidents, pollution events or other cases of
noncompliance, according to federal regulations.  
 BP is the largest producer of oil and gas in the Gulf of
Mexico, with capacity of 500,000 barrels a day in March,  Andy Inglis , chief executive officer for exploration and production,
told investors in March. The blowout came about six months after
BP announced Tiber, a Gulf field it said would enable it to
raise production to the equivalent of 600,000 barrels a day.
also operates the Prudhoe Bay oil field on Alaska’s North Slope.  
 U.S. Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  wants to put into
legislation the government’s authority over energy production on
federal property. Last month, the Senate Energy and Natural
Resources Committee adopted a bill setting safety and
environmental standards for offshore drilling with a provision
to bar companies that have failed to meet “due diligence,
safety, or environmental requirements” from new leases.  
 ‘Cozy’ Relationship  
 President  Barack Obama  has called on Salazar and Congress
to beef up oversight of offshore drilling and end the “cozy”
relationship between the industry and regulators.  
 Measures being debated in Congress would by place into
statute Salazar’s decision to eliminate the Minerals Management
Service, the agency formerly charged with promoting energy
development and enforcing safety standards, and replace it with
three new agencies.  
 The House panel also approved today an amendment by
Representative  Ed Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, affecting
companies with deep-water leases in the Gulf that don’t require
royalty payments to the government. Holders of such leases would
be barred from bidding on new tracts if they decline to
renegotiate and pay fees on the disputed contracts.  
 The U.S. Supreme Court rejected last year an Obama
administration appeal and refused to clear the federal
government to collect an estimated $20 billion in royalties from
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  and other oil and gas companies. The
dispute turned on a 1995 law that limited royalties in an effort
to promote drilling in the gulf.  
 “We know that at $80 a barrel, we don’t have to provide
incentives to drill for free on public lands,” Markey said.
“It gives us a chance to collect this money and use it to
reduce the federal deficit.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in Washington at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Representative George Miller of California has sponsored the amendment to bar BP Plc from new U.S. offshore leases to drill for oil or natural gas. Photographer:  Jay Mallin / Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
