-- Bovespa Stock Index Declines on Signs Economic Growth Slows in U.S., China
-- Felipe Frisch
-- 2010-07-14T20:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/brazil-s-bovespa-stock-index-futures-fall-as-commodities-prices-decline.html

          
          
             The  Bovespa  stock index fell after
reports signaled economic growth may be slowing in the U.S. and
China, the biggest buyers of Brazilian exports.  
 Iron-ore producer Vale SA declined as metals prices
dropped. Steelmaker  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA  slid
for a third day after Banco Santander SA said it scrapped a plan
to raise steel prices.  Cosan SA Industria & Comercio , the
world’s largest sugar-cane processor, dropped for the first time
in six sessions as the price of sugar tumbled. Losses were
limited as cosmetics maker Natura Cosmeticos SA and retailer
Lojas Renner SA both surged to records.  
 The  Bovespa  index declined 0.3 percent to 63,479.46.
Thirty-eight stocks fell on the measure while 24 gained. The
real weakened 0.3 percent to 1.7615 per dollar.  
 “The market is apprehensive about the China numbers coming
out tonight, especially second-quarter GDP and industrial
production,” said  Pedro Galdi , an analyst at Sao Paulo
brokerage SLW Corretora. “We’re seeing declines in industrial
production all around the world. A bad number could give the
impression that the world is contracting again.”  
 A Chinese government report may show gross domestic product
rose 10.5 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
28 economists, down from an 11.9 percent pace in January to
March. Industrial production and urban fixed-asset investment
are also estimated to have slowed.  
 Retail Sales Growth  
 Brazilian stocks gained yesterday after the nation’s third-
largest homebuilder,  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos &
Participacoes , reported a jump in revenue and domestic retail
sales growth accelerated.  
 Sales at U.S. retailers fell in June for a second month,
decreasing a more-than-projected 0.5 percent following a 1.1
percent May drop, Commerce Department figures showed today in
Washington.  
 Brazilian stocks extended declines today after minutes of
the Federal Reserve’s June meeting showed policy makers
determined that the U.S. economy’s outlook had “softened.”  
 In China, power consumption rose at the slowest pace since
February on weakening demand from heavy industries, adding to
signs that the economy leading the world recovery is cooling.  
 Power use in the second-largest energy consuming nation
increased about 14 percent in June to 352 billion kilowatt-
hours, the National Energy Administration said today on its
website. That compares with monthly growth of at least 20
percent from March to May.  
 Weaker Manufacturing  
 Today’s data follow weaker June readings for manufacturing
indexes and a measure of the services industry after the
government cracked down on property speculation and as the
effects of stimulus measures fade.  
 Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, fell 0.7
percent to 38.30 reais while Cosan dropped 0.3 percent to 24.09
reais.  
 Usiminas , as Brazil’s second-biggest steelmaker is known,
lost 3.1 percent to 48.85 reais, extending a three-day decline
to 7.7 percent. The company canceled a planned 10 percent price
increase as the “government could be tempted to remove import
tariffs,” Santander analyst  Felipe Reis  said in a July 12
report citing  Bruno Fusaro , Usiminas’s head of investor
relations.  
 Steel Duties  
 Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said June 11 the government
may reduce duties on steel in a bid to contain inflation after
wholesale prices rose the most in two years.  
 Natura, Brazil’s biggest cosmetics maker, jumped 4.7
percent, the most since February, to 42.10 reais. Lojas Renner
SA, the biggest publicly traded clothing retailer, advanced 4.5
percent to 51.40 reais, for the biggest gain since May.
Investors may be buying shares of Natura, whose earnings are
more tied to domestic growth, to insulate themselves against
global volatility, said Caue Pinheiro, a consumer stocks analyst
at SLW Corretora.  
 The  Bovespa index  trades for 12 times analysts’ 2010
earnings estimates, compared with 11.7 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 15.5
times for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 14 times the reported
profits of its companies after fetching 25.5 times in November,
the most in almost six years, weekly data show.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
 Felipe Frisch  in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        