-- AMR Nears British Airways Alliance as EU Backs Deal
-- Mary Schlangenstein
-- 2010-07-14T20:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/british-airways-wins-eu-antitrust-approval-for-iberia-merger-amr-alliance.html

          
          
             AMR Corp. ’s American Airlines moved
a step closer to completing a trans-Atlantic alliance with
 British Airways Plc  that will control almost 50 percent of
flights at London’s Heathrow Airport.  
 The American-British Airways plan won European Union
antitrust approval today and awaits clearance from the U.S.
Transportation Department. The venture would give the carriers
equal footing with other alliances that coordinate pricing,
flights and marketing across the Atlantic.  
 “This is very, very important for the way BA and AMR
operate and gives them some significant advantages, which
competitors such as Air France and Lufthansa have already been
benefiting from,” said  Gert Zonneveld , an analyst at Panmure
Gordon in London who  rates  British Airways as “hold.”  
 British Airways and American agreed to give up 10 flight
slots in the U.K. and U.S., said the European Commission, the
EU’s regulatory agency. The panel also approved a $6.6 billion
merger of British Airways and Spain’s  Iberia Lineas Aereas de
Espana SA , which is included in the antitrust authority.  
 U.S. regulators granted tentative approval for the
antitrust alliance in February. Transportation Department
officials said then that the airlines had to yield four pairs of
takeoff and landing slots to rivals at Heathrow, Europe’s
busiest airport.  
 Autumn Start  
 “We await the DOT’s final decision, but welcome this
important and vital step,”  Willie Walsh , British Airways chief
executive officer, said in a statement.  
 Bill Mosley , a Transportation Department spokesman,
declined to comment.  
 British Airways and American Airlines aim to start their
venture this autumn, the U.K. carrier said. The alliance “will
result in more competition in the trans-Atlantic market,” AMR
CEO  Gerard Arpey  said in a statement.  
 AMR fell 3 cents to $7.10 at 3:33 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . British Airways  gained  0.4 percent
to 207.9 pence in London.  
 The alliance plan, submitted in 2008, is the third attempt
since 1996 to forge closer ties between British Airways and Fort
Worth, Texas-based American, which are leading members of the
Oneworld group of carriers and jointly market dozens of routes.  
 The EU “has let consumers down by agreeing to paltry
remedies which are wholly inadequate,” said  Richard Branson ,
founder of Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd., British Airways’
largest long-haul rival at Heathrow.  
 “We have fought this monster monopoly for the past 13
years and are still resolute in our belief that this decision is
shameful and that consumers will suffer greatly as a result of
this deal,” Branson said in a statement.  
 The opening of Heathrow to competitors, the granting of
antitrust immunity to other alliances and the concessions agreed
to by American and British Airways cleared the way for approval,
said  Alan Bender , professor of airline economics at Embry-Riddle
Aeronautical University in Daytona Beach, Florida.  
 “When you add all those things together, it’s just pretty
obvious that finally they’d have to go along with this,” he
said of regulators. “It’s extremely important, and I can’t
think of another case where something has taken this long to
happen.”  
 American and London-based British Airways dropped their
last alliance effort in 2002 over U.S. requirements for the
number of Heathrow flights to be ceded.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Brussels via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     British Airways and American Airlines aim to start their venture this autumn, the U.K. carrier said. The alliance “will result in more competition in the trans-Atlantic market,” AMR CEO Gerard Arpey said in a statement. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
