-- States Dodge Defaults as California May Cut Worker Pay
-- William Selway
-- 2010-07-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/california-may-cut-pay-illinois-holds-bills-to-bar-downgrades.html

          
          
             Illinois let $5 billion of bills go
unpaid. Washington closed state offices.  California  may cut
200,000 workers’ pay to the minimum wage. Minnesota is delaying
tax refunds for a second year.  
 As fiscal 2011 budgets took effect July 1, state and local
governments coping with revenue declines from an economic
slowdown are fulfilling legal obligations to balance their books
by shaving costs and raising taxes to protect a key
constituency: owners of $2.8 trillion of municipal bonds.  
 “States have taken all measures so far to make sure they
keep capital markets open by honoring their debt payments,”
said  Richard Ciccarone , a managing director for McDonnell
Investment Management LLC in Oak Brook, Illinois, which owns $7
billion of municipal bonds. “They are doing everything they
can.”  
 States cut spending  by $74 billion since 2008 and more than
half raised taxes and fees in 2009, the National  Association of
State Budget Officers  said. That’s as the worst economy since
the 1930s sent May unemployment as high as 14 percent in Nevada,
topping the 9.5 percent U.S. rate, and deflated real estate
values. As a result, state revenue fell $95 billion, or 12
percent, from September 2008 to the end of 2009, according to
the U.S.  Census Bureau , pushing tax collections to 2006 levels.  
 “It’s a tremendous amount of pain,” said Illinois
Comptroller  Daniel Hynes . Schools, foster homes, hospitals and
other agencies as well as outside vendors will have to wait for
their money until the state raises cash to pay bills, he said.  
 Investors Protected  
 Illinois, which is selling $900 million of bonds for
capital projects this week, won’t let investors down, said
Governor  Pat Quinn . Moody’s Investors Service lowered the
state’s credit grade last month by one level to A1, matching
California as its lowest-rated state.  
 “Our bonds have always been repaid,” Quinn said in an
interview at the National Governors Association meeting in
Boston July 10. “We have provisions in our constitution that
are very protective.”  
 To make ends meet, half the states, including Indiana,
Massachusetts and Nevada, have fired workers in the past budget
year and 22 put staff on temporary leave, the governors group
and budget officers association said.  
 Minnesota is delaying corporate and sales-tax refunds,
postponing school and medical aid and setting up a $600 million
bank line of credit. New Jersey is planning to refinance about
$250 million of general-obligation bonds to push $202.5 million
of debt-service costs into future fiscal years.  
 Selling Assets  
 To raise money, Arizona sold its House of Representatives
and Senate buildings and California solicited bids for 11 of its
office complexes. No sacrifice is too small: Delaware saved
$29,000 by eliminating flowers at the state psychiatric hospital
and health department.  
 Local governments are responding, too. Unpaid days off in
Los Angeles helped the second-largest U.S. city close a budget
gap and Detroit shut schools. Seventy percent of cities are
cutting payrolls, said  a survey  by the National League of Cities
released in May, with some 68 percent reducing capital projects.  
 “The cuts are much more meaningful and more pronounced
than anything we have seen,” said  Peter Hayes , who oversees
$106 billion of municipal bonds for New York-based BlackRock
Inc., the world’s largest money manager.  
 Such actions may be helping investors regain confidence in
the tax-exempt debt market based on prices for credit default
swaps, derivatives used to insure against bond failures or
speculate on creditworthiness.  
 When the fiscal year began for most states on July 1, it
cost $260,155 to insure $10 million of municipal debt for five
years, according to an index of swaps on 50 state and municipal
general-obligation and revenue bonds maintained by Markit CDX.  
 Company Debt  
 That was $137,355 more than to insure the same amount of
debt of companies, including General Electric Co. and Cisco
Systems Inc., in the Markit North American Investment-Grade
Index of default swaps. By yesterday, the difference had fallen
to $112,002 as  10-year borrowing  costs for top-rated municipal
borrowers slid to 2.93 percent, the lowest since at least 2001,
a Municipal Market Advisors index shows.  
 “Municipal credit concerns have diminished,” Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC, a Philadelphia-based adviser, said in a
note to bond clients on July 12. “Investors continue to seek
tax-free income and the strong credit track-record of general-
obligation and essential-purpose municipal bonds.”  
 Lawmakers are willing to anger voters with reduced services
and higher taxes to retain the favor of investors, who buy more
than $400 billion of state and local debt each year to finance
roads and bridges, pay for new schools and maintain parks and
libraries.  
 “They don’t want to lose that access,” Hayes said.  
 Fewer Failures  
 Municipal bonds default less than company debt, Moody’s
said in a February report. The average failure rate for
investment-grade municipal debt from 1970 through 2009 was 0.03
percent, compared with 0.97 percent for similar corporate bonds,
the analysis said. Of 54 municipal defaults in the period, only
three were general-obligation bonds backed by the full faith and
credit of the issuers, Moody’s said.  
 Defaults occur when a borrower misses interest payments or
fails to maintain adequate reserves for future interest. Since
the Great Depression of the 1930s, only one state -- Arkansas --
has defaulted. That was after it assumed debts of its
municipalities to keep them from financial failure.  
 Most of the $15.5 billion of such events in the municipal
market since 2008 involved debt backed by specific revenue
streams, like levies on new Florida housing developments, rather
than by a government’s obligation to repay investors from taxes.  
 Fee-Backed Bonds  
 Jefferson County, Alabama, defaulted on more than $3
billion of sewer-system bonds backed by water bills when
officials balked at raising residents’ costs to meet soaring
interest expense. Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, has been pushed
close to bankruptcy because the city guaranteed bonds funded by
fees from an incinerator that weren’t enough to cover debts.  
 “There may be an increase from what we have seen
historically, but we think they will be isolated to smaller,
weaker issuers and ultimately will not cause any market
disruption,” said Hayes.  
 Two states remain at impasses over bringing expenses into
line with incomes. California is without a budget and New York
legislators passed spending bills while putting off action on
revenue measures.  
 New York, the third-biggest state by population, has
delayed payments to schools to preserve cash while legislators
wrangle with Governor  David Paterson  over how to close a $9.2
billion deficit for the year that began April 1.  
 Acceptable Answer  
 “Withholding the payments has been an answer and it’s been
one that’s been acceptable to the markets,” Paterson said in an
interview at the Boston governors’ meeting. “The only other way
would be to make the payments and run out of money, and I don’t
think the bondholders would like that.”  
 California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , facing a $19
billion budget deficit for the year that began this month, is
trying to force 200,000 state workers onto minimum wages
temporarily. State officials are standing by with authority to
cut off payments to schools to conserve cash until a budget is
passed.  
 Public officials should take more such steps to cut
expenses and stem borrowing or risk falling prices in the
municipal bond market, said  Thomas Wilson , chief executive
officer of  Allstate Corp. , the largest publicly traded U.S. home
and car insurer.  
 Out of Control  
 “Government borrowing is way out of control,” Wilson, 52,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview July 6. “We need to
get our house in order.”  
 Allstate cut its municipal-bond portfolio in three straight
quarters, reducing its holdings to $20.1 billion through the end
of March from $23.1 billion on June 30, 2009.  
 With the Federal Reserve keeping  interest rates  near zero,
the cost of servicing debt hasn’t grown more burdensome for
governments. In the first quarter, state and local borrowers
spent an annualized $109 billion, or 5 percent of their revenue,
on interest payments, U.S.  Commerce Department data  show. That’s
little changed from before the beginning of the recession and
down from as much as 8 percent in 1987.  
 “The problem of states is a problem of deficits, not
debt,”  Alan Krueger , assistant U.S. Treasury Secretary for
economic policy, said in an interview. “They have the ability
to carry their debt.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Arnold Schwarzenegger, governor of California. Photographer: Ken James/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
