-- Canada Will Press Ahead With Planned Changes to Census Forms, Clement Says
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-07-14T20:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/canada-will-press-ahead-with-planned-changes-to-census-forms-clement-says.html

          
          
             The Canadian government won’t
reconsider plans to replace the mandatory “long-form” portion
of the country’s census with a voluntary version, Industry
Minister  Tony Clement  said.  
 The census, which will be taken in May 2011, won’t include
a mandatory long-form questionnaire like the one that had been
sent to 20 percent of households. Instead, Statistics Canada
 said  it will send a voluntary form covering most of the same
topics as the previous form as part of a new National Household
Survey.  
 “The government does not believe it is appropriate to
force Canadians to divulge detailed personal information under
threat of prosecution,” Clement said in an e-mailed statement.
“In the past, the Government of Canada received complaints
about the long-form census from citizens who felt it was an
intrusion of their privacy.”  
 Clement said Statistics Canada will send the form to more
households to make up for any drop in response rate.  
 Opposition parties, some business groups, economists and
 academics have opposed  the changes, saying that a voluntary
long-form census won’t provide the same level of accuracy as a
mandatory one because some groups may be less likely to respond.  
 ‘Structural Break’  
 “If a structural break occurs in the data, you’ve really
lost all of that old work,” said  Eric Lascelles , chief rates
strategist and economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities, adding it’s possible that the agency will be able to
obtain good data through various statistical methods.  
 “There’s still nothing like the real thing -- if it’s not
broke, don’t fix it,” Lascelles said.  
 The main opposition Liberal Party said last week it may try
to amend the Statistics Act to require the census to have a
mandatory long-form questionnaire.  Marc Garneau , the party’s
spokesman for industry and science issues, said today he will
also ask a Parliamentary committee to convene so Clement and
groups that oppose the changes can testify.  
 “The decision by this government regarding the census is
truly a stupid decision,” Garneau, a former astronaut, told
reporters in Ottawa. “Mr. Clement has clearly not understood
the importance of having clear, accurate data that allows us to
take the right decisions for this country.”  
 The  long form  included questions on ethnicity, employment,
income, languages spoken at home and education. Garneau said the
government needs the data to properly act on a range of issues
from pay equity to the needs of aboriginal communities.  
 Canada’s official languages commissioner, Graham Fraser,
said on July 12 he will  investigate  the government’s decision,
because he is concerned the new form won’t allow the government
to determine the size of French- and English-speaking
communities.  
 The other two opposition parties -- the Bloc Quebecois and
the New Democratic Party -- have said they will wait for the
Liberal’s proposed legislation before deciding whether to
support it.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        