-- Carbon Emissions Cap-And-Trade Law Can't Pass, Senator Rockefeller Says
-- Simon Lomax
-- 2010-07-14T21:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/carbon-emissions-cap-and-trade-law-can-t-pass-senator-rockefeller-says.html

          
          
             Legislation that cuts carbon dioxide
from power plants with a cap-and-trade program can’t pass the
U.S. Senate this year, Senator  Jay Rockefeller  said today.  
 “Cap-and-trade cannot get 60 votes,” Rockefeller, a West
Virginia Democrat, said in a conference call with reporters,
referring to the number of votes regularly needed to pass major
legislation in the Senate. It’s “common knowledge around
here,” he said.  
 Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
yesterday a plan to cut carbon dioxide from power plants may be
part of energy legislation planned for debate this month.  
 Senators  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat, and  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, are pressing Reid to add a
power-plant cap-and-trade program to the energy bill. Kerry and
Lieberman’s proposal scales back an earlier cap-and-trade plan,
in which companies buy and sell a declining number of carbon
dioxide allowances, which covered most of the U.S. economy.  
 Kerry said he’s still confident his power-plant program
will pass the Senate as part of this month’s energy bill. “If
we quit working every time someone was skeptical of getting 60
votes, we’d never get anything done,” Kerry said in an e-mail.  
 A bill to overhaul the U.S. health-care sector was
considered “dead” by many before it passed Congress in March,
Kerry said. Senate Democrats started the debate on legislation
setting new rules for the U.S. financial sector with less than
60 votes “and we’re about to pass that too,” he said.  
 Carbon Capture  
 Rockefeller’s comments in opposition to cap-and-trade came
as he introduced a bill to raise $20 billion over 10 years to
subsidize the deployment of technology that captures and stores
carbon dioxide emissions from power plants.  
 The legislation aims to spur the use of the technology at
plants with a combined capacity of 20,000 megawatts. Newly built
or modified power plants would get $67 to $96 for every trapped
ton of carbon dioxide under Rockefeller’s legislation, which is
co-sponsored by Senator  George Voinovich , an Ohio Republican.  
 The money for the carbon-capture subsidies would be raised
with charges of 0.046 cents to 0.091 cents for every kilowatt-
hour generated from power plants fueled with coal, oil and
natural gas.  
 Financial Aid  
 Carbon capture and storage hasn’t been commercially proven,
so the financial aid is needed to reduce “economic risks” and
attract private investment in the technology, according to a
summary of the legislation.  
 Once the technology to capture carbon dioxide from
smokestacks and store it underground has been shown to work at a
number of power plants, it would become mandatory, Voinovich
told reporters on today’s conference call.  
 Kerry and Lieberman’s plan would also subsidize carbon
capture and storage projects at power plants by giving them
“bonus allowances” from the cap-and-trade program.  
 Senate Democrats should give up on a cap-and-trade program
for power plants this year, Voinovich said. “Cap-and-trade has
become a dirty word all over,” he said.  
 Democrats should instead take up legislation, passed by the
Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee last year, which
requires power companies to buy more electricity from pollution-
free sources such as wind turbines and toughens energy-
efficiency standards, Voinovich said.  
 Adding aid for carbon-capture technology and new nuclear
reactor construction to that bill might be “the only chance
that we’ve got of getting anything out” of the Senate this year
on energy, he said.  
 Chemistry Council Opposes  
 The Arlington, Virginia-based American Chemistry Council
today said it will oppose legislation that includes a cap-and-
trade program. The cost of buying carbon dioxide allowances will
result in higher energy costs for chemical plants, Cal Dooley,
the council’s president and chief executive, said in an e-mail.  
 Natural gas, which produces roughly half as much carbon
dioxide as coal when used to fuel a power plant, will become
more expensive as a feedstock for the chemicals industry due to
increased demand from the utility sector, Dooley said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        