-- CFTC May Mandate Controls for Futures Traders Getting Direct Market Access
-- Nina Mehta
-- 2010-07-14T23:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/cftc-may-mandate-controls-for-futures-traders-getting-direct-market-access.html

          
          
             The Commodity Futures Trading
Commission may consider rules mandating risk controls for how
trading firms and investors access the market, Chairman  Gary Gensler  said.  
 His comments centered on a practice known as direct access
to markets, in which futures brokerages let investors send
orders directly to exchanges instead of going through the
securities firm’s systems and pre-trade checks. The technique is
used by some computer-driven traders who measure execution times
in millionths of a second.  
 Gensler spoke at the first meeting organized by the CFTC’s
 technology advisory committee , reestablished after the May 6
market plunge that erased $862 billion in equity value. The
committee, which was disbanded in 2005, is charged with keeping
the regulator up to date about new technologies such as
algorithmic and high-frequency trading so regulators can improve
their market oversight.  
 “Some smaller exchanges may not be rising to the occasion
quite as quickly as the larger ones,” Gensler said in
Washington today. “There’s a role for regulators.”  
 ‘Good Job’  
 Speaking at the same event, executives from Chicago-based
 CME Group Inc.  and Atlanta-based  InterContinental Exchange Inc. 
said their markets have introduced risk checks and methods to
prevent error trades in recent years.  Charles Vice , president
and chief operating officer of ICE, said the “industry does a
good job” at promoting and instituting risk controls. CME and
ICE run the two biggest futures exchanges in the U.S.  
 The Futures Industry Association, a Washington-based trade
group for derivatives brokers,  published  recommendations in
April for uniform risk controls when firms access markets.
Suggestions include trading limits based on the size of orders,
measured in dollars and number of contracts, as well as maximum
losses allowed for specific products or asset classes. Brokers
should also be able to cancel a client’s orders across exchanges
if limits are breached, it said.  
 Investors and traders can access markets through a broker’s
systems, via a vendor who has an arrangement with the broker or
through their own technology. The broker remains responsible for
the trading regardless of the access method. In futures and
securities markets, clearing firms and regulators have expressed
concern primarily about direct access by private trading firms
and investors whose orders don’t go through the broker’s systems
and may not be subjected to risk checks before reaching markets.  
 SEC’s Proposal  
 The Securities and Exchange Commission  proposed  rules in
January that apply to firms getting what’s called sponsored
access to stock exchanges from brokers after studying the issue
for more than two years. Futures exchanges and brokers have
discussed risk controls since at least 2006 and have introduced
measures to limit errors.  
 The CFTC should offer guidance on risk controls and ensure
they’re in place at trading firms and brokers instead of
mandating requirements that could become outdated, said Douglas
Harris, managing director at  Promontory Financial Group , a
financial services consulting firm based in Washington.  
 “Management is sometimes willing to sacrifice risk
management and internal controls for speed and profitability,”
Harris said. Risk checks slow the execution of orders. Lax
controls by a firm designed to win more business from rival
brokers who conduct risk checks could lead to losses, he added.  
 Co-Location Rules  
 As part of an effort to improve its oversight of high-
frequency trading firms and the services they use, the CFTC last
month  proposed  rules about co-location, in which trading
businesses place their computers near those of an exchange to
reduce the time it takes for data to be transmitted. In a
separate rule, the agency proposed collecting data about who
owns and controls trading accounts to improve its ability to
conduct market surveillance.  
 Gaining this information would meet the CFTC’s “new
regulatory data needs in an era of predominantly electronic
trading,” the agency said in its rule filing. It would also
“improve the division of market oversight’s detection and
deterrence capabilities with respect to specific trade practice
violations and market abuses.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        