-- Chavez Calls for Review of Ties With Catholic Church Following Criticism
-- Daniel Cancel
-- 2010-07-14T19:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/chavez-calls-for-review-of-ties-with-catholic-church-following-criticism.html

          
          
             Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
ordered a review of ties with the Roman Catholic Church after
his policies were criticized by church leaders in recent weeks.  
 Chavez called local officials led by Cardinal Jorge Urosa
Savino “troglodytes, cavemen and fascists.” He said that the
Catholic Church acts as if it has special privileges in the
country, and called on the  Foreign Ministry  to review agreements
with the church and to contact the Vatican.  
 “With all due respect to the Vatican and pope, you’re not
an ambassador of Christ, Christ doesn’t need an ambassador,”
Chavez said today on  state television . “The bishops and
cardinals think they are above the state -- come down from that
cloud, cavemen.”  
 The  Episcopal Conference of Venezuela said  in a July 12
statement that it’s “unacceptable” for the government to
impose a socialist state inspired by the Cuban communist regime
and criticized the “ideological and political polarization of
the country.” Chavez says church officials are allied with the
political opposition and want to oust him from power.  
 State media have run government advertisements this week
criticizing Urosa, and the  National Assembly  condemned the
church’s involvement in politics yesterday.  
 Chavez said that his allies will sweep the opposition in
congressional elections Sept. 26 and that he has the people’s
support for the creation of what he calls 21st century
socialism.  
 “The cardinal thinks that he can put us on the defensive
and put fear into the people by calling me a Marxist,” Chavez
said. “I am Marxist, but before Marxist, I’m deeply
Christian.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        