-- Chile Swap-Rate Gap Narrows to Brazil as Economy Gains `Greater Momentum'
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-07-14T15:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/chile-swap-rate-gap-narrows-to-brazil-as-economy-gains-greater-momentum-.html

          
          
             Chilean traders are raising their
 expectations  for interest-rate increases faster than in Brazil,
driving the yield gap on the countries’ swaps to the smallest
level since October.  
 Yields on two-year interest-rate swaps for Chile surged 39
basis points, or 0.39 percentage point, in the past two months
to 3.86 percent, pushing the difference with Brazil to an eight-
month low of 804 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Chile’s swaps, which reflect traders’ views of future
interest rates, jumped even as a flagging global recovery
threatened to curb exports that account for 21 percent of the
country’s gross domestic product.  
 RBS Securities Inc. is recommending investors bet the gap
will widen as the growth slowdown prompts Chile’s central bank
to pare back increases in borrowing costs. In Brazil, where
exports account for 10 percent of GDP, two-year interest-rate
swap yields sank 56 basis points in the past two months.  
 “If you compare Chile to Brazil, the relationship to
external risk is almost perverse,” said  Siobhan Morden , a Latin
American debt strategist at RBS in Stamford, Connecticut.
“Chile is a small, open economy, and should show a high
correlation to external risk, whereas Brazil, which is a large,
closed economy, should show a low correlation. In fact, the
opposite is the case and we think that’s an opportunity.”  
 Investors can profit from the reversal by betting Chile’s
five-year rate-swap yields will fall, swelling the gap with
Brazil, Morden said. While Brazilian contracts expiring in 2015
slid 75 basis points this year to 12.03 percent, Chilean swaps
dropped 25 to 4.98 percent.  
 Foreign Investors  
 Traders have lowered rate expectations as signs of a
slowdown in the U.S. and China added to concern about the global
recovery that was first sparked by Europe’s debt crisis.  
 Chilean interest-rate expectations have been less affected
by the weakening of the global recovery because the presence of
foreign investors is smaller than in Brazil, said  German Fritsch , head of trading at Deutsche Bank AG in Santiago.  
 “When foreign markets go badly, people unwind Brazilian
positions, which is why the correlation is so strong,” he said.
“In Chile that doesn’t happen. There is a flight-to-quality
effect from local pension funds, which are very large investors,
bringing money back.”  
 Chile’s central bank may boost its  benchmark rate  to 1.5
percent tomorrow after the economy grew 7.1 percent in May, the
fastest in almost five years, according to 13 of 14 economists
in a Bloomberg survey. It raised the rate by 50 basis points in
June from a record low of 0.5 percent.  
 ‘Significant Recovery’  
 In Brazil, policy makers raised interest rates twice this
year to 10.25 percent from a record low 8.75 percent in March in
a bid to prevent the economy from overheating. Latin America’s
biggest economy expanded at the fastest pace since 1995 in the
first quarter.  
 “Both economies are on a pretty significant recovery
trajectory,” said  Jorge Selaive , chief economist at Banco de
Credito e Inversiones in Santiago. “Chile has greater momentum
than Brazil, but in the very short term. The momentum we’ve been
seeing will slow in the second half.”  
 To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        