-- China Likely to Remain a Net Corn Importer for a Second Year, Merrill Says
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-07-14T09:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/china-likely-to-remain-net-corn-importer-for-second-year-merrill-says.html

          
          
             China, the second-largest corn
consumer, will likely remain a net importer of the grain for a
second year as bad weather has hurt the domestic harvest, Bank
of America-Merrill Lynch said.  
 Imports may be at least 2.3 million metric tons in the year
beginning Oct. 1, as demand exceeds production, Timothy Bush, a
vice president at Merrill Lynch, said in Hong Kong today. China
is forecast by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to import 1
million tons in the year ending Sept. 30, up from 47,000 tons a
year earlier.  
 Rising  imports  by China may help drain excess global supply,
supporting prices that have slumped 6.3 percent in Chicago
futures this year. China is boosting purchases as inventories in
the U.S., the largest grower and exporter, are forecast to drop
Aug. 31 to the lowest since 2007, and will decline further next
year, the USDA said.  
 “I simply don’t see any way that China has upside to corn
output in 2010,” Bush said at a briefing, citing delays in
sowing caused by cold weather, flooding in some growing regions
and drought in the northeast part of the country.  
 China’s  production  will likely lag behind demand as areas
planted to the grain drop 1.5 percent and demand expands 3.4
percent this year, Bush said.  
 China is poised to become a net corn  importer  in the
marketing year ending Sept. 30 for the first time in at least 14
years after drought parched crops in growing regions.  
 The U.S. had outstanding sales of 890,200 tons of corn to
China as of July 1, and has exported 120,600 tons to the Asian
nation this year, the USDA said July 9.  
 The December-delivery contract in Chicago added 0.3 percent
to $3.88 a bushel at 5:31 p.m. Singapore time.  
 China’s corn imports may be as much as 3 million tons this
year, as it rebuilds stockpiles drained to help cool domestic
prices, Jay O’Neil, an economist at the International Grains
Program of Kansas State University said June 16.  
 “Inventories in China are currently overstated,” Bush
said, citing damage to the grain caused by cold weather and mold.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        