-- China `Hard-Landing' Concerns Will Test Markets, BNP Paribas's Bryant Says
-- Candice Zachariahs
-- 2010-07-14T03:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/china-hard-landing-concerns-will-test-markets-bnp-paribas-s-bryant-says.html

          
          
             Concern that quickening  inflation 
will lead to a “hard landing” in China will hang over markets
during the next six months, BNP Paribas said.  
 The bank expects the expansion of the world’s fastest
growing major economy to slow to 9.8 percent in 2010 and then to
8.4 percent next year as policy tightening dents demand. A
government report tomorrow will show  gross domestic product  rose
10.5 percent in the second quarter, according to the economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, weaker than the 11.9 percent pace of
the previous three months. Consumer prices probably climbed by
the most in 20 months, a separate survey shows.  
 “Inflation is going to be picking up for much of the rest
of this year and growth will be slowing,”  Dominic Bryant ,
senior Asia economist for BNP Paribas, said today in Sydney.
“The fact that inflation is picking up means that they can’t
really be preemptive in terms of loosening policy, they have to
allow the slowdown to occur.”  
 Stocks across  Asia  retreated in the past two months on
speculation that China’s tightening measures -- including
providing guidance to banks to curb lending and toughening
mortgage-lending rules -- will hamper growth. The Shanghai
Composite Index has slid 24 percent in 2010.  
 “People over the next six months are going to be worried
about whether China will have a hard landing or not,” Hong
Kong-based Bryant said during a visit to Sydney. “The near term
is going to be a testing time with a lot of uncertainty
regarding China.”  
 Chinese manufacturing growth slowed for a second month in
June, a report showed July 1. Banks extended 603.4 billion yuan
($89 billion) of new loans that month, less than half the figure
for January.  
 The drop in credit growth means “domestic demand growth is
going to slow and possibly quite quickly,” Bryant said.
“China’s got some downside risks.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Stephen Roach, chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia, talks about the outlook for economic growth in China and efforts to boost domestic demand.
     Roach speaks with Mark Barton on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Stephen Engle reports on China’s economic growth figures due out tomorrow.
     A government report will show gross domestic product rose 10.5 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 economists, down from an 11.9 percent pace in January to March. Industrial production and urban fixed-asset investment are also estimated to have slowed. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- William Hess, managing director at China Analytics in Beijing, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for the Chinese economy.
     China’s slowing expansion may encourage officials to shift policy toward sustaining the rebound in the economy forecast to account for one-third of global growth this year. A government report tomorrow will show gross domestic product rose 10.5 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 economists, down from an 11.9 percent pace in January to March. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Stephen Schwartz, chief economist for Asia at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA in Hong Kong, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for China's economy and property market.
     China’s slowing expansion may encourage officials to shift policy toward sustaining the rebound in the economy forecast to account for one-third of global growth this year. Falling property prices and risks to European and U.S. export demand may reduce China’s growth, the fastest among the Group of 20 nations, and restrain economies across Asia. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
