-- China Backs $12 Billion Argentina Rail Projects to Ease Commodity Supplies
-- Neil Denslow
-- 2010-07-14T12:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/china-backs-12-billion-argentina-rail-projects-to-ease-commodity-supplies.html

          
          
             China agreed to work on rail
projects worth at least $12 billion in Argentina, boosting ties
with South America’s second-largest economy.  
 The accord included a $10 billion refurbishment of the
Belgrano Cargas and a $1.85 billion deal to upgrade the
Ferrocarril Belgrano Norte y Sur, according to an e-mailed
statement from the Argentine embassy in Beijing today. Argentine
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  is visiting China with
a trade delegation.  
 China has backed infrastructure projects in Africa and
South America to ease shipments of oil and other commodities
needed to support its booming economy. Argentina was China’s
largest supplier of soybean oil until shipments were disrupted
earlier this year by a trade spat.  
 China National Machinery & Equipment Import & Export Corp.
will work on the Belgrano Cargas, the statement said. A group
including Shaanxi Coal Group Investment Co. will lead the
Ferrocarril Belgrano project.  
 The Belgrano Cargas, a freight network, connects the city
of Buenos Aires to 13 of Argentina’s 23 provinces, including the
main soybean producing areas, and to Chile,  according  to the
national transport agency website. The oilseed is Argentina’s
largest agricultural export and the main commodity shipped from
the South American country to China.  
 The Belgrano Cargas has 150 locomotives, 39 of which are
operating, according to agency data for 2006, the last year
available. The railway has 7,347 kilometers (4,566 miles) of
tracks, of which 5,069 were in use in 2006, according to the
agency. The Belgrano Norte y Sur systems transport passengers in
the Buenos Aires metropolitan area.  
 China Northern Locomotive & Rolling Stock Industry (Group)
Corp. will also supply 220 carriages and 20 trains in a $330
million deal. China Citic Bank Corp. and China Development Bank
Corp. will lend Argentina’s Ministry of Economy and Public
Finance $273 million to help fund the purchase, according to a
separate statement from China Citic.  
 A China Railway Group Ltd. unit also gave initial agreement
for a possible $1.8 billion deal to build a subway in Cordoba
and for a $1.5 billion order to extend a train line to Buenos
Aires’ Ezeiza Airport.  
 China in April told traders to stop buying soybean oil from
Argentina as it sought to force the South American country to
scrap anti-dumping duties on goods including shoes, textiles and
steel products. The countries can find a way to resolve the
dispute, Qin Gang, a spokesman for China’s Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, said on July 13.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Denslow in Hong Kong at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        