-- CNN Said to Seek NBC's Assent to Approach Morgan as Larry King Replacement
-- Andy Fixmer
-- 2010-07-14T13:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/cnn-said-to-seek-nbc-s-assent-to-approach-morgan-as-larry-king-replacement.html

          
          
             Time Warner Inc. ’s CNN is seeking
permission from NBC to talk to  Piers Morgan , the “America’s Got
Talent” judge, about taking over for talk-show host  Larry King ,
said two people with knowledge of the discussions.  
 NBC’s assent is necessary before CNN can hold direct
negotiations with Morgan, said one of the people, who sought
anonymity because the discussions are private. NBC is seeking
assurances that Morgan would put his role as a judge on the
broadcaster’s most-watched reality show ahead of the demands of
a cable-news talk show, said the other person.  
 CNN is searching for a host to reclaim viewers who defected
to cable-news rivals Fox News and MSNBC as “Larry King Live”
lost viewers. King, who interviewed presidents and Hollywood
royalty on CNN for 25 years, plans to step down later this year.  
 Keith Cocozza , a spokesman for New York-based Time Warner,
declined to comment, as did  Wendy Luckenbill , a spokeswoman for
New York-based NBC, part of General Electric Co.’s NBC
Universal.  
 A contract with Morgan could be signed within a few days,
the New York Times reported yesterday, citing three people
involved in the negotiations between the companies.  
 Other TV Roles  
 Ratings for “Larry King Live,” which airs weeknights at 9
p.m. New York time, have declined 40 percent this year through
June, according to Nielsen Co.  
 The Tuesday episode of NBC’s “America’s Got Talent” tied
CBS’s “NCIS” last week as the top rated show, while the
Wednesday show garnered third place.  
 NBC Universal Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Zucker  said
today that Morgan’s continuing work as a judge on “America’s
Got Talent” may not prevent him from taking on other TV roles.  
 “Piers will continue on ‘America’s Got Talent’ for the
next three years,” Zucker said today on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe”
program. “I can also tell you he has approached us about asking
to do another job as well. Those conversations are continuing,
and I don’t think those are mutually exclusive.”  
 Time Warner  fell  10 cents to $30.82 at 9:50 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares had climbed
6.1 percent this year before today. Fairfield, Connecticut-based
GE rose 6 cents to $15.27.  
 Simon Cowell  
 Morgan, 45, has interviewed  Gordon Brown  and  Simon Cowell 
on the ITV network in the U.K., the New York Times reported. A
former editor at The Daily Mirror, Morgan has gained a U.S.
audience by following former “American Idol” host Simon Cowell
in using a combination of self-confidence and criticism, the
newspaper said.  
 “American Idol” host  Ryan Seacrest  and “CBS Evening
News” anchor  Katie Couric  are also potential replacements for
King, the New York Times reported June 21, without citing a
source for its information.  
 CNN, once the leader in 24-hour TV news, doesn’t rank among
the most-watched cable channels, according to  Nielsen. News
Corp. ’s Fox News is the most-watched cable news outlet,
averaging 2.11 million prime-time viewers this year through
June, according to Nielsen.  
 Last month CNN said a show featuring  Eliot Spitzer , former
governor of New York, and columnist  Kathleen Parker  will replace
 Campbell Brown , who said in May she will end her 8 p.m. news
program.  
 “Larry King Live” is listed in the “Guinness Book of
World Records” as the longest-running show with the same host
in the same time slot, King said in a June 29 announcement of
his decision to step down. He plans to appear in CNN specials on
national and international affairs.  
 King’s show averaged 723,000 viewers a night this year
through June, down from 1.2 million in the same period a year
ago, according to Nielsen.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Piers Morgan talks with reporters at the NBC Universal Summer Press Day in Pasadena, California. Photographer: Jason Merritt/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
