-- Copper Drops After U.S. Retail-Sales Declines, Signaling Fragile Economy
-- Millie Munshi
-- 2010-07-14T18:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/copper-prices-drop-as-u-s-retail-sales-slide-more-than-analysts-forecast.html

          
          
             Copper futures fell for a second day
this week after a report showed U.S. retail sales declined more
than forecast in June, renewing concern that the economic
recovery may falter.  
 Purchases decreased 0.5 percent last month, a second
straight drop, the U.S. Commerce Department said today. Sales
had been forecast to slip 0.3 percent, the median of 75
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Copper prices tumbled 17
percent in the second quarter, the first quarterly loss since
2008, on signs that the global economy was slowing.  
 “The retail numbers were a little disappointing,” said
 Donald Selkin , the chief market strategist at National
Securities Corp. in New York. “Copper is drifting right now,
waiting for some more certainty.”  
 Copper futures for September delivery were down 0.9 cent,
or 0.3 percent, to $3.0085 a pound on the Comex in New York.
Prices have slumped 10 percent this year.  
 The metal fluctuated between gains and losses today,
tracking swings in the U.S. stock markets.  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index erased an advance after the
Federal Reserve released minutes from its last meeting in which
policy makers concluded that the economic outlook has “softened
somewhat.” The equity gauge fell as much as 0.7 percent,
halting a six-session rally.  
 Some commodities traders use the U.S. stock market as a
gauge for the economy’s health. Copper prices added 4.7 percent
last week as the S&P climbed 5.4 percent.  
 On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months added $40, or 0.6 percent, to $6,725 a metric ton ($3.05
a pound)  
 Zinc, nickel and tin fell on the LME. Aluminum and lead
were up.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Millie Munshi  in New York at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        