-- Corn, Soybean Prices Rise as Hot, Dry Weather May Jeopardize U.S. Crops
-- Jeff Wilson
-- 2010-07-14T20:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/corn-soybean-prices-rise-as-hot-dry-weather-may-jeopardize-u-s-crops.html

          
          
             (Corrects soybean’s high reference in first paragraph.)  
 Corn prices rose the most in a week
and soybean futures climbed to a two-month high on speculation
that a heat wave may damage crops in the U.S., the biggest
producer and exporter.  
 As much as 20 percent of Midwest crops may be harmed over
the next six weeks, said  Joel Widenor , the director of
agriculture services at the Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda, Maryland. Temperatures may approach 100 degrees
Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius) next week from Omaha, Nebraska,
to Springfield, Illinois.  
 “People are buying because of the fear” that adverse
conditions will reduce output, said  Tim Hannagan , a grain
analyst at PFG Best Inc. in Chicago. “A lot of consumers don’t
have as much corn and soybeans bought as they would like with
the increased weather threats.”  
 Corn futures for December delivery rose 9.25 cents, or 2.4
percent, to $3.9625 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the
biggest gain since July 7. In the two weeks ended July 9, the
price jumped 9.6 percent after the government said that farmers
planted less than they had intended this year.  
 Soybean futures for November delivery climbed 7.5 cents, or
0.8 percent, to $9.62 a bushel. Earlier, the price reached
$9.67, the highest level since May 13. The oilseed has gained
6.6 percent this month.  
 Last week, soybean conditions deteriorated amid rain in
parts of the western Midwest and dry weather across southern and
eastern growing regions.  
 “We haven’t seen this kind of weather risk to crops in
several years,” Hannagan said. “There was a rush of fund
buying today.”  
 Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, followed by soybeans at $31.8 billion, government figures
show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        