-- Corporate Bond Risk Falls to Two-Month Low as Intel Boosts Recovery Bets
-- Abigail Moses
-- 2010-07-14T08:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/corporate-bond-risk-falls-to-two-month-low-as-intel-boosts-recovery-bets.html

          
          
             The cost of insuring against losses
on European corporate bonds fell to the lowest level in two
months after record sales and earnings forecasts from  Intel
Corp.  helped fuel bets the economic recovery is on track.  
 The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on
125 companies with investment-grade ratings dropped 3.25 basis
points to 112, the lowest since May 12, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
prices show.  
 The world’s biggest chipmaker said it expects to profit as
companies resume spending on technology after cutting back
during the recession. Investors were also buoyed by Greece’s
ability to raise funds in the international capital markets
yesterday for the first time since being bailed out by the
European Union and International Monetary Fund in May.  
 “Intel results blew the gasket off, Greece placed its six-
month paper successfully and cash remains keen to invest in
credit,” said  Greg Venizelos , a London-based analyst at BNP
Paribas SA. “Credit spreads keep marching tighter.”  
 Credit-default swaps on Greece declined 27 basis points to
784, the lowest level in a month, according to data provider
CMA. Contracts on Portugal dropped 6.5 basis points to 272.5 and
Spain fell 1 to 207.  
 Intel said third-quarter sales will be $11.6 billion,
exceeding analyst estimates of $10.9 billion in a Bloomberg
survey. The company, whose processors run more than 80 percent
of the world’s personal computers, said its gross profit margin
will reach 66 percent this year.  
 Investor Confidence  
 Investor confidence may be tested later today as a report
may show sales at U.S. retailers fell in June for a second
month. The Commerce Department data is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington and economists’ estimates range from a decline of 0.8
percent to a 0.5 percent gain.  
 The cost of protecting European bank bonds from default
fell on speculation results of stress tests due next week will
reassure investors about their resilience to potential losses.
The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of 25 banks and insurers
dropped 4 basis points to 128, the lowest since May 18, and the
subordinated index was 5 lower at 199.  
 The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 companies with
mostly high-yield credit ratings declined 13 basis points to
505, the lowest since June 21, JPMorgan prices show.  
 A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($12.7 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A decrease
signals improvement in perceptions of credit quality.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        