-- DBS to Pay $84 Million in Hong Kong Lehman Settlement (Correct)
-- Debra Mao
-- 2010-07-15T07:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/dbs-to-pay-about-84-million-to-hong-kong-investors-in-lehman-linked-notes.html

          
          
             (Corrects to remove reference to DBS’s part in previous
settlement in fourth paragraph of story published July 14.)  
 DBS Group Ltd., Southeast Asia’s
biggest bank, agreed to repay HK$651 million ($84 million) to
Hong Kong clients who bought notes linked to the collapsed
Lehman Brothers Holdings Ltd.  
 DBS (Hong Kong) Ltd. has agreed to make the payments to
clients it classified as having a low or medium investment risk
profile, the Securities and Futures Commission said today.  
 “This will serve as a useful guide for other distributors
in resolving complaints from customers,” said Martin Wheatley,
the commission’s chief executive. Over 60 percent of clients who
bought the so-called Constellation Notes from DBS will get back
their full investment back with interest, he said.  
 Hong Kong investors bought a total of HK$6.5 billion worth
of the notes, of which HK$1.3 billion were sold by DBS. Today’s
agreement follows a settlement arrangement last July in which 16
Hong Kong banks agreed to pay at least 60 cents on the dollar,
for a total of HK$6.3 billion, to buy back a batch of credit-
linked notes linked to Lehman, known as mini-bonds.  
 “The issue over these notes appears to be largely settled,
in which case it will be positive for the bank,” Harsh Wardhan
Modi, a Singapore-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in
an interview today.  
 Angry Investors  
 Hong Kong is an example of how the financial devastation
resulting from Lehman’s 2008 bankruptcy rippled across the globe.
As the securities plunged and allegations of mis-selling mounted,
citizens who lost their savings took to the streets and
lawmakers scolded the heads of the city’s central bank and
securities watchdog in public.  
 “Resolution payments are being offered, without admission
of liability, in the interests of our relationships with our
customers and in the broader interests of the Hong Kong
financial system,” DBS said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 Last month, two employees of BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd.,
the biggest seller of the mini-bonds, pleaded not guilty in the
city’s District Court to fraudulently selling the product. The
judge set Nov. 8 as the date for the trial.  
 The minibonds, or custom-made securities linked to the
credit worthiness of companies, were backed by collateralized-
debt obligations and often sold to elderly, mentally ill and
poorly educated people, according to a Hong Kong Monetary
Authority investigation made public by lawmakers a year ago.  
 Wheatley declined at a press conference today to name the
other banks who have sold the Constellation notes.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Debra Mao in Hong Kong 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        