-- Dealers Slash Bond Holdings as Conviction in Rally Wanes: Credit Markets
-- John Detrixhe
-- 2010-07-15T11:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/dealers-slash-bond-holdings-as-conviction-in-rally-wanes-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Wall Street’s biggest bond dealers
have been cutting their  holdings  of corporate debt to the lowest
since September, signalling limited conviction behind the credit
market rally that began last month.  
 The 18 primary U.S. government debt dealers that trade
directly with the Federal Reserve held $80.6 billion of
corporate bonds with maturities greater than one year as of June
30, down 20 percent from this year’s high of $101.6 billion on
Jan. 20, according to central bank data. The Fed will release
primary dealer positions as of July 6 today.  
 The 66 percent decline in dealer holdings from a peak of
$235 billion in October 2007 shows risk appetite never recovered
from the credit crisis amid proposals for tighter regulation,
increased  capital requirements  and concern the global economy
may slow. The reduced holdings may expose investors to wider
price swings if sentiment turns negative, according to State
Street Corp.’s  William Cunningham  in Boston.  
 “Liquidity is very scarce when you need it,” said
Cunningham, head of credit strategies and fixed-income research
at the investment unit of State Street, which oversees almost $2
trillion. “While the markets are operating, the depth of bids
and the depth of liquidity is so shallow that you cannot rely on
this if conditions get worse.”  
 The extra yield investors demand to own corporate bonds
instead of Treasuries fell 1 basis point to 188 basis points, or
1.88 percentage points, according to  Bank of America Merrill Lynch ’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index. The index has
declined for five straight days, the longest stretch since March
11. It’s fallen from 201 basis points on June 11. Yields
declined to 3.929 percent.  
 Credit-Default Swaps  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default rose in the U.S. following the
Federal Reserve’s assessment that the economic outlook has
“softened.” Relative yields on emerging market bonds widened
after tightening for six straight days.  
 The cost of insuring against losses on European investment-
grade corporate bonds using credit-default swaps fell to the
lowest in more than two months after Spain’s successful 3
billion-euro ($3.8 billion) sale of 15-year debt.  
 Contracts on the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125
companies dropped 0.7 basis point to 113.1 as of 12:09 p.m. in
London, the lowest since June 21, according to Markit Group Ltd.
Credit-default swaps on Spanish government debt declined 4 basis
points to 216, CMA prices show.  
 Maximum Amount  
 Today’s Spanish auction raised the maximum offered at an
average yield of 5.116 percent, compared with 4.434 percent at a
sale of the same securities on April 22, the Bank of Spain said.
Demand was 2.57 times the amount sold, compared with a bid-to-
cover ratio of 1.79 in April. The nation’s bonds rose, while the
euro strengthened.  
 Sellers of debt insurance on about $504 million of Truvo
Subsidiary Corp. debt may pay 97 cents on the euro to settle
credit-default swaps that were triggered when the publisher of
business directories filed for bankruptcy.  
 Traders set an initial recovery value of 3 percent on the
Belgian company’s bonds at an auction today, according to
administrators Markit Group Ltd. and Creditex Group Inc., and
will set a final value later.  
 Credit swaps typically decline as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. They pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  
 Emerging Markets  
 The extra yield investors demand to own emerging market
bonds instead of government debt rose 8 basis points to 305
basis points, according to index data from JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The spread, down from 339 basis points on July 1, was as low as
229 on April 15 and as high as 359 on May 25.  
 Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s biggest carmaker, sold
$1.75 billion of bonds backed by auto loans after boosting the
offering from $1.25 billion.  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. , the
independent film and TV producer, approached creditors of ailing
 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.  to help shape a plan to acquire the
studio.  
 The $587 million top-rated portion of Toyota’s offering,
maturing in about 1.85 years, yields 18 basis points more than
the benchmark interest rate, according to a person familiar with
the transaction who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t public.  
 Auto Bonds  
 Sales of asset-backed securities tied to vehicle debt
represent about $34 billion of the $55 billion in bonds linked
to consumer and business lending this year, according to Bank of
America Corp. data. The Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender
forecasts issuance of $60 billion for bonds backed by auto debt
this year.  
 Investec Plc  plans to offer bonds backed by U.K. prime and
non-conforming mortgages in the South African investment and
private bank’s first public sale of the notes in Europe since
March 2007.  
 The lender intends to issue from 175 million pounds ($267
million) to 250 million pounds of bonds,  Richard Downer, 
Investec’s London-based head of banking and institutions group
said in an interview. The transaction may be ready by year end,
he said.  
 Bonds from Petroleos Mexicanos were the most actively
traded U.S. corporate securities yesterday by dealers, with 139
trades of $1 million or more, followed by Morgan Stanley, with
114, Bloomberg data show. The Mexican state-owned oil company
sold $2 billion of bonds in overseas markets July 13 after its
benchmark yields fell to the lowest level in almost six months.  
 Ford Junk Notes  
 The most active in junk bonds was Ford Motor Co. with 87
trades. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by Standard &
Poor’s.  
 Lions Gate Vice Chairman  Michael Burns  has been meeting in
New York with investors who hold some of MGM’s $3.7 billion of
debt, according to two people with knowledge of the situation
who requested anonymity because the discussions are private.  
 Any agreement to buy Los Angeles-based MGM, which won
another loan reprieve from creditors yesterday, would have to be
approved by  Carl Icahn , Lions Gate’s largest shareholder. He
took a 10-day break from efforts to gain control of Vancouver-
based Lions Gate’s board so the company could make a case for
certain acquisitions, according to a regulatory  filing . That
standstill agreement expires on July 19. Debt-hobbled MGM is co-
owner of the James Bond franchise.  
 Stricter Rules  
 Bank’s appetite for risk may remain in check until
regulators finish implementing stricter regulations that may
pass Congress this week, said  William Dennehy , senior fixed-
income money manager at Chicago-based Northern Trust Co., which
has $150 billion in assets under management.  
 “Until all the regulatory uncertainty is ironed out,
they’re not in a position to know how much capital they need to
have on their balance sheets, how much capital support they’re
going to need,” Dennehy said.  
 The Fed data, while an imperfect measure, “is a leading
indicator of dealer risk appetite, liquidity and volatility,”
said  J.J. McKoan , co-director of global credit investments in
New York at AllianceBernstein LP, where he helps manage $199
billion in fixed-income assets.  
 Bank risk-taking may have increased in recent days as
investor appetite returns, trading data suggests. The 10-day
moving average of daily bond trades climbed to $14.6 billion on
July 13, up from a six-month low of $13.6 billion on July 9,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  
 “Liquidity comes and goes with risk appetite,” said
 Thanos Bardas , a managing director at Chicago-based Neuberger
Berman LLC, which manages about $80 billion in fixed-income
assets. “There’s more liquidity when spreads are narrowing and
less when spreads are widening.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. vice chairman Michael Burns. Photographer: Aaron Harris/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Greg Peters, global head of fixed-income research at Morgan Stanley, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economic recovery and the state of global sovereign debt markets.
     Peters speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
