-- Delta May Lead Airlines Back to Profit on Business Travel
-- Mary Schlangenstein
-- 2010-07-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/delta-may-lead-airlines-to-first-profit-in-2-1-2-years-as-planes-fill-up.html

          
          
             Delta Air Lines Inc.  and  UAL Corp. ’s
United Airlines may lead  U.S. carriers  to the first quarterly
profit in two and a half years as the industry benefits from
cutting seats during the recession.  
 A revival in business travel is filling planes to record
levels and helping boost average fares collected by airlines.
The recovery is occurring amid the busiest time of the year for
air travel, allowing carriers to build cash and mend their
balance sheets.  
 “Happy days are here again,” said  Michael Derchin , an
analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC. “There is clear evidence that
business travel has come back and they’re paying higher fares.
And summer is off to a really strong start and planes are
completely full.”  
 Second-quarter net income may total $1.7 billion for the 9
biggest U.S. airlines, said Derchin, who is based in Stamford,
Connecticut. Each of the airlines should post a profit or break
even, Derchin said.  
 Delta, the largest U.S. carrier, is scheduled to be the
first of its peers to announce second-quarter results, on July
19. The Atlanta-based airline probably will report a profit of
67 cents a share, the average of 11 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  
 The group has lost money for 10 straight quarters, starting
in the last three months of 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The carriers endured oil prices surging to a record
$147 a barrel in 2008, the global credit crunch and recession,
and the H1N1 flu outbreak that curbed summer travel in 2009.  
 Less Capacity  
 Airlines helped set the stage for the recovery by  reducing
capacity  starting in 2008 as demand collapsed. The six biggest
U.S. carriers trimmed 2010 capacity by 2.8 percent through May,
in addition to a 6.9 percent cut last year that was the largest
since 1942.  
 “From where we sit, just looking at credit profiles and
balance sheet recovery, the corner has been turned,” said  Bill Warlick , a Chicago-based analyst at Fitch Ratings. “Cash is
being generated, positive free cash flow is being directed to
debt reduction -- all the things that will eventually create a
more stable financial basis for the industry.”  
 Tighter supply coupled with rising demand is helping
carriers increase ticket prices, a power they lacked in the past
two years.  
 Domestic yields , or average fare per mile, have risen each
month this year through May, after falling every month in 2009.
On international flights, where business- and first-class
travelers pay the highest fares, May yields jumped 28 percent on
trans-Atlantic routes and 25 percent across the Pacific,
according to the  Air Transport Association  trade group.  
 Global traffic rose 12 percent in May, pushing it above the
pre-recession levels of early 2008 for the first time, the
International Air Transport Association said June 29.  
 ‘A Rising Tide’  
 “In this case, a rising tide lifts all ships,” said  David Swierenga , president of consultant AeroEcon in Round Rock,
Texas. “It’s driven principally by the recovery in the U.S.
economy and the fact that carriers have been very cautious about
adding capacity.”  
 Continental Airlines Inc., which is set to report earnings
on July 22, said planes flew fuller than ever during May and
June. Southwest Airlines Co., which is due to release results on
July 29, had 11 consecutive record months until June, when
occupancy slipped to the second-highest level.  
 “Airlines are carrying more passengers today who are
willing and able to pay an airfare that at least covers the cost
of the service provided,”  Michael Linenberg , a Deutsche Bank AG
analyst in New York, said in a June 25 report. “Imagine that!”  
 Oil, Labor Costs  
 The biggest risks now for airlines are rising oil prices, a
double-dip U.S. recession and potential strikes by labor groups
in contract talks at most of the major carriers, Derchin said.  
 While  spot jet-fuel prices  in New York harbor have fallen
11 percent since May 3, the high for 2010, the average price in
the first half was 42 percent more than a year earlier. Fuel and
labor are the two largest costs for most airlines.  
 Pilots and other work groups are in negotiations at United,
Continental, AMR Corp.’s American Airlines and US Airways Group
Inc., and unions for American’s flight attendants and airport
ramp workers want to be released from further bargaining under
federal labor law so they can strike.  
 Global economic weakness and the possible effect on oil
prices from Middle East political unrest are also concerns, said
 Hunter Keay , a Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst based in Baltimore.  
 Stock Catalysts  
 The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index  of 12 carriers rose 14
percent this year through yesterday, topping the 1.8 percent
decline for the Standard & Poor’s 500 and the less than 1
percent drop for the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The airline
index has slipped 10 percent since its 2010 high on April 15.  
 “I see fewer and fewer catalysts” for airline shares to
rise, Keay said. “I’m in more of a ‘show-it-to-me’ frame of
mind. I’m worried about a plateau in business travel.”  
 Revenue should continue to strengthen in the third quarter
on increasing peak-travel surcharges, fewer and less aggressive
fare sales and “continued gradual improvement in core demand,”
 William Greene , a Morgan Stanley & Co. analyst in New York, said
in a July 12 note to investors.  
 “The airline industry is firmly in the recovery phase,” he
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Delta Airlines jet takes off at the Greater Cincinnati Northern Kentucky Airport in Hebron, Kentucky. Photographer: Tom Uhlman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
