-- Screening for Dementia Cuts Health Costs for Elderly, Researchers Show
-- Arielle Fridson
-- 2010-07-14T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/dementia-screening-reduces-health-costs-in-first-year-of-care-study-finds.html

          
          
             Patients diagnosed with  dementia 
through screening ran up 13 percent less in health costs in the
first year of treatment than before, according to a study
suggesting wider detection could reduce U.S. medical expenses.  
 The one-year cost for 345 patients who were screened, found
to have dementia and treated at U.S.  Department of Veterans
Affairs  clinics with specially trained nurses fell to $11,636
each on average, from $13,378 in the 12 months before diagnosis,
said  J. Riley McCarten , the lead researcher.  
 Patients with  Alzheimer’s , the most common form of dementia
and the seventh-leading cause of death in the U.S., are becoming
more numerous and cost three times as much to treat as elderly
patients without the disease. While screening for Alzheimer’s
runs about $800 a person, it may more than pay for itself, as
people diagnosed with the malady may be less likely to be
treated for other illnesses, researchers said.  
 “Our study showed reduced costs in the short run, but we
also anticipate that screening would save money in the long-run
as well, since we would no longer sink costs into aggressive
treatments for other conditions during end-of-life treatment
when the patients already have an invariably terminal disease,”
McCarten, a University of Minnesota physician, said in an
interview yesterday.  
 The median decrease was 29 percent, according to a
statement released today in Honolulu at the  International
Conference  on Alzheimer’s Disease. That number reflects the
savings for the study patient in the middle of the cost curve in
the group whose treatment included the services of nurses
trained in dementia, according to the statement.  
 Early Diagnosis  
 The difficulties of diagnosing Alzheimer’s patients have
been widely discussed at this year’s conference, and new
guidelines have been proposed to help address the challenges.  
 Despite such hurdles, for patients whose dementia is
properly diagnosed, health care may become more efficient,
McCarten said in the interview. That’s because they can receive
chronic care such as phone checkups with nurses, he said. Before
diagnosis, patients may be “lurching from crisis to crisis,”
undergoing tests and treatment for many possible maladies, after
coming to the hospital repeatedly with vague complaints, he
said.  
 An estimated 5.3 million Americans have Alzheimer’s. That
figure will grow as the population aged 65 and older more than
doubles to 89 million in 2050 because of longer life expectancy
and the aging of baby boomers, according to the  Alzheimer’s
Association , an advocacy group based in Chicago.  
 Proponents of screening said more is at stake than saving
money.  
 ‘Slower Progression’  
 “If you can detect and diagnose the disease earlier, then
one can implement care sooner, so that the hope would be that
the individual would have a slower progression of the disease
and therefore extend the time before they would need
institutionalized care,” said Molly V. Wagster, chief of the
behavioral and systems neuroscience branch at the  National
Institute on Aging , in Bethesda, Maryland, in an interview
yesterday. Wagster wasn’t involved in the study.  
 For the research, a three-item memory test was added to
regular checkups by doctors for people over 70 who weren’t
already diagnosed with memory loss. Nurses trained in dementia
were employed at seven clinics used in the research, which was
part of the Dementia Demonstration Project at the  Minneapolis
Veterans Medical Center , overseen by the U.S. Department of
Veterans Affairs.  
 “We would like to see screening become a vital sign, just
like taking your weight or blood pressure,” McCarten said.
“Right now the health-care system cares about every other organ
system, but almost completely ignores the brain.”  
 Running Up Bills  
 Health-care payments for dementia patients 65 and older are
expected to total $172 billion in the U.S. this year, according
to the Alzheimer’s Association. Hospital and nursing-home bills
and other health expenses associated with Alzheimer’s average
$33,007 annually for the patients compared with $10,603 for
elderly people without the disease, the association said in a
March report.  
 Alzheimer’s, which has no cure, destroys brain cells. Over
the course of the three stages of the disease, which afflicts
mostly people 65 and older, memory and cognition worsen until a
person is unable to communicate.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arielle Fridson  in New York at 
 afridson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        