-- Deutsche Bank Loses Option Trader Saiers to Hedge Fund Alphabet Management
-- Jeff Kearns
-- 2010-07-15T14:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/deutsche-bank-loses-option-trader-saiers-to-hedge-fund-alphabet-management.html

          
          
             Nelson Saiers , a managing director
for proprietary derivatives trading at Deutsche Bank AG, left
Germany’s biggest lender to work for Alphabet Management LLC, a
hedge fund that specializes in options.  
 Saiers joined New York-based Alphabet this week, according
to  Jason Adler , a managing member at the hedge fund that has
about $170 million in assets. Saiers will lead a group that
trades derivatives including options to bet that volatility
levels for stocks and other assets worldwide are too high or low
in relation to each other, Adler said.  
 “There’s been continued selective hiring across multiple
strategies at many hedge funds,” said  Ross Baltic , a managing
partner at New York-based Mercury Partners, a New York-based
recruiter for hedge funds. “We’re seeing interest across
different assets, including volatility trading.”  
 Alphabet gained 11 percent in the first half of this year,
according to a letter to investors obtained by Bloomberg News,
compared with an average drop of  1.6 percent  for equity hedge
funds tracked by Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. Alphabet
lost 8.9 percent last year after surging 52 percent in 2008,
according to the letter. The Hedge Fund Research gauge rose 25
percent in  2009  and lost 27 percent in 2008.  
 Deutsche Bank is winding down its proprietary trading
operations, which buy and sell stocks with the bank’s own money,
following losses from the financial crisis.  Anshu Jain , the head
of its corporate and investment bank, has cut capital available
for equity proprietary trading by 90 percent and closed the
credit proprietary trading desk.  Pablo Calderini , the head of
equity proprietary trading, is leaving to join a hedge fund.  
 Doctorate in Math  
 Renee Calabro , a New York-based spokeswoman for Deutsche
Bank, declined to comment on Saiers.  
 Saiers, 35, worked at Deutsche Bank in New York for three
years and previously held trading positions at UBS AG and
Susquehanna International Group LLP, and earned a doctorate in
 math  from the University of Virginia, Adler said. Saiers didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  
 “It’s continuing the trend where hedge funds are returning
to volatility trading strategies,” said  Jason Kennedy , chief
executive officer of Kennedy Group of Cos., a London-based
executive search firm. “That market has been fairly nonexistent
for the last couple years and, thus, the hedge fund world axed a
lot of traders and lost a lot of expertise in the area.”  
 Jeremy Wien , the head of VIX options trading at Societe
Generale SA, left France’s second-largest bank in March to trade
derivatives at Alphabet. Investors use  options  on the VIX, as
the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index is known, to
hedge against stock market declines and bet on equity swings.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        