-- The Washington Post Launches Co-Branded Online Business Section
-- 
-- 2010-07-14T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/the-washington-post-launches-co-branded-online-business-section.html

          
          
               The Washington Post Launches Co-Branded Online Business Section with
  Bloomberg

  Combines The Post’s In-Depth Expertise on Economic Policy with Bloomberg’s
                      Global Business and Financial News

Business Wire

WASHINGTON -- July 14, 2010

The Washington Post today introduced a new co-branded and redesigned online
business section (www.washingtonpost.com/business) in a partnership with
Bloomberg L.P. The next phase of this unique collaboration combines The Post's
expertise in national politics and policy with Bloomberg's business news, data
and information from around the globe.

“As Washington's leading news organization, The Post has long produced
definitive, original reporting on the crucial economic-policy and regulatory
issues that affect the U.S. and world markets,” said Marcus Brauchli,
Washington Post Executive Editor. “Partnering with Bloomberg brings together
our strength in those areas with the enormous expertise of Bloomberg in market
and policy news in one comprehensive online offering. This arrangement will
allow The Post to focus on our strategy of being the indispensable source of
news and information for and about Washington.”

``As Bloomberg has become the first, fastest and most factual provider of the
story of money in all its forms, readers of the redesigned online business
section conceived with the Washington Post can look forward to a unique blend
of actionable news,'' said Matthew Winkler, founder and Editor-in-Chief of
Bloomberg News.“

Adding to The Post’s in-depth, dedicated coverage of the financial crisis,
financial regulation and economic policy, Bloomberg provides daily business
headlines, extensive market news and data. The redesigned section features
policy analysis, breaking news, exclusive reports, a collection of
award-winning Washington Post and Bloomberg News columnists and customizable
tools to track market trends.

Bloomberg’s market modules allow users to find stock quotes, follow industry
trends and soon reference a daily economic calendar of events. The Bloomberg
Watchlist feature lets users customize and easily look up the latest company
stock information directly from the business section homepage. The Most
Popular module will highlight the day’s top Bloomberg News stories.

The Post’s award-winning financial columnists, including Steven Pearlstein,
Ezra Klein and Michelle Singletary will be joined in this section by
Bloomberg’s renowned and award-winning columnists including Albert Hunt,
Michael Lewis, Jonathan Weil, Caroline Baum, Margaret Carlson, John Dorfman
and Tom Keene.

The section will also feature two new blogs. “Political Economy,” will be the
source for breaking news on economic policy decisions and analysis of how Wall
Street and the broader economy will be affected.

“The Company Beat,” a blog by Jia Lynn Yang, who recently joined The Post from
Fortune magazine, will cover policy issues that impact corporate America. Yang
will give insights into the ways that business interacts with and influences
Washington as well as corporate fears regarding the impacts of regulatory
reform. “Political Economy” and The Company Beat” join Ezra Klein’s blog on
economic policy, special reports on the financial crisis among other features.

The Post’s partnership with Bloomberg for the business section comes after the
January 2010 launch of a global news service, The Washington Post Service with
Bloomberg News, which provides daily stories to newspapers, websites and other
subscribers. Post content is also available on all Bloomberg terminals and
Bloomberg provides Post’s print readers with markets data.

The launch of The Washington Post/Bloomberg Business page follows The Post’s
rollout of PostPolitics.com and PostLocal.com, homepages dedicated
specifically to the newspaper’s political and local audiences.

About The Washington Post

The Washington Post provides award-winning news and understanding about the
politics, policies, personalities and institutions that make Washington, D.C.
the world’s seat of power, and is a critical tool and information source for
those who call Washington, D.C. home. In digital form, The Washington Post
combines its world-class journalism with the latest technology and tools, and
encourages participation and customization across all platforms so readers can
engage with The Washington Post anytime, anywhere. The Washington Post is
owned by The Washington Post Company (NYSE: WPO), a diversified education and
media company.

About Bloomberg

Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information for businesses and
professionals. Bloomberg combines innovative technology with unmatched
analytic, data, news, display and distribution capabilities, to deliver
critical information via the BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL® service and multimedia
platforms. Bloomberg's media services cover the world with more than 2,300
news and multimedia professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries. The
BLOOMBERG TELEVISION® 24-hour network delivers smart television to more than
240 million homes. BLOOMBERG RADIO® services broadcast via SIRIUS XM Radio and
1worldspaceTM satellite radio globally and on WBBR 1130AM in New York. The
award-winning monthly BLOOMBERG MARKETS® magazine, Bloomberg Businessweek
magazine and the BLOOMBERG.COM® financial news and information Web site
provide news and insight to business decision-makers. For more information,
please visit http://www.bloomberg.com.

Contact:

Washington Post
Maria Cereghino, 202-334-4230
maria.cereghino@wpost.com
or
Bloomberg
Lauren Meller, 212-617-8185
lmeller@bloomberg.net
 
               
//<![CDATA[

                  $("div#story_content p:first").appendTo("div#press_release_subhead_holder");
              
//]]>
