-- Eclipsys, Landstar, Mylan, Opnet, Taleo: U.S. Equity Preview
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-07-15T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/eclipsys-landstar-mylan-opnet-taleo-veeco-vivus-u-s-equity-preview.html

          
          
             Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses.  
 Eclipsys Corp.  (ECLP US): The health-care information-
technology provider that agreed last month to merge with
Allscripts-Misys Healthcare Solutions Inc. said it hadn’t
responded to an “informal and preliminary inquiry” concerning
a private equity takeover offer of $19 to $20 a share. The
shares rose 1.7 in regular trading to $20.10.  
 Landstar System Inc.  (LSTR US): The trucking company
boosted its quarterly dividend by 11 percent to 5 cents a share
from 4.5 cents and forecast third-quarter earnings-per-share as
high as 52 cents, higher than the average analyst estimate of 50
cents a share in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Mylan Inc.  (MYL US): The largest U.S. maker of generic
drugs said it plans to acquire closely held Bioniche Pharma
Holdings Ltd. for $550 million in cash.  
 Opnet Technologies Inc.  (OPNT US): The management software
maker estimated first-quarter profit as low as 5 cents a share,
less than the 9 cents a share average analyst forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  
 Peregrine Pharmaceuticals Inc.  (PPHM US): The drug
development company reported a fourth quarter loss of 16 cents a
share, missing the average estimate for a loss of 10 cents a
share, according to a Bloomberg survey of two analysts.  
 Rubicon Technology Inc.  (RBCN US): The maker of crystalline
products was rated “overweight” in new coverage at Piper
Jaffray Cos.  
 Taleo Corp.  (TLEO US): The maker of software said Chief
Financial Officer Katy Murray resigned effective Oct. 1 at the
latest. No reason for the resignation was given.  
 Veeco Instruments Inc.  (VECO US): The maker of gear for
chipmakers and data storage was downgraded to “neutral” from
“overweight” at Piper Jaffray Cos.  
 Vivus Inc.  (VVUS US): A U.S. Food and Drug Administration
advisory panel for the company’s weight-loss pill Qnexa is still
meeting Thursday, spokesman Brian Korb of Trout Group said in e-
mail. It had earlier been reported the session might be
postponed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        