-- Hedge-Fund Returns Decline in 2010 Amid European Debt Crisis
-- Tomoko Yamazaki
-- 2010-07-14T12:43:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/hedge-fund-returns-decline-in-first-half-of-2010-on-european-debt-crisis.html

          
          
             Hedge funds fell for a second month
in June as the stock market slump hurt managers investing in
equities.  
 The Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index, which measures the
performance of more than 2,000 funds worldwide, declined 0.5
percent after losing 2.6 percent in May,  Eurekahedge Pte  said in
a  report  on its website. Funds investing in stocks fell 1.1
percent. The main index is down less than 0.1 percent for the
first six months of the year.  
 Hedge funds, which returned an average 20 percent in 2009,
are struggling amid signs of a global economic slowdown as
governments pare stimulus measures, Europe faces surging budget
deficits and China’s expansion slows. The funds’ six-month
performance compares with an 11 percent drop by the  MSCI World
Index  and an 8.8 percent decline by the Reuters Jefferies CRB
Index, a commodities benchmark.  
 “Simply outperforming the traditional market won’t be
enough for hedge funds because they are expected to deliver
absolute returns,” said Shinichiro Nagai, a senior manager at
the investment group of Tokyo-based GCI Asset Management Inc., a
Japanese hedge-fund firm.  
 Four out of seven regional indexes declined in June, with
the Eurekahedge Eastern Europe and Russia Hedge Fund Index
losing the most with 2.3 percent. Latin American funds were the
best performers, gaining 1 percent. The measure tracking North
American managers declined 0.9 percent.  
 Long-Short, CTAs  
 For year-to-June, the index tracking  Latin American
managers  gained 1.5 percent, while the gauge of Asia ex-Japan
managers fell 3.1 percent, the worst performance.  
 By strategy, so-called equity long-short funds that trade
on rising and falling stock prices were the worst performing
group in June. Commodity trading advisers, or CTAs, which use
computer programs to search for price signals in futures markets
ranging from equities and bonds to oil and gold, were the best
performers, returning 0.6 percent in June, according to the
report. Funds that invest in fixed income benefited from a rally
in bond prices, returning 0.5 percent last month.  
 Managers investing in distressed debt were the best
performers, gaining 6.4 percent, in the first half of 2010,
followed by funds that invest in fixed income, it showed.  
 A separate report by  Hennessee Group LLC  showed hedge funds
worldwide had their fourth-worst six-month start to a year since
1987 when the a New York-based investment advisory firm started
compiling the data. The Hennessee Hedge Fund Index added 0.2
percent in the first six months of this year.  
 ‘High Correlation’  
 “Volatility and high correlation among asset classes have
created a challenging investment environment,” E.  Lee Hennessee , managing principal of Hennessee Group, said in an e-
mailed statement. “While funds have not generated substantial
positive performance, investors should be satisfied with lower
drawdowns and lower volatility.”  
 Assets managed by so-called UCITS III funds surpassed $100
billion in the first half of 2010, according to Eurekahedge. The
funds, known by an acronym for Undertakings for Collective
Investment in Transferable Securities, comply with European
Union rules and are allowed to use alternative investment
strategies such as shorting and leverage to boost returns.  
 Eurekahedge’s preliminary report is based on 52 percent of
funds reporting performances in June. The research firm plans to
release a full report later this month.  
 Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Hennessee Group LLC managing prinicipal E. Lee Hennessee. Source: Hennessee Group Llc via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
