-- Legg Mason's Permal May Double Asia Allocation as Tightening Concern Eases
-- Bei Hu
-- 2010-07-14T03:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/legg-mason-s-permal-may-double-asia-allocation-as-tightening-concern-eases.html

          
          
             Permal Asset Management Inc. , a  Legg
Mason Inc.  unit that invests clients’ money in hedge funds, may
double allocations to Asia as concerns that government
tightening measures will dampen equities in the region ease.  
 Permal’s Asian investments may rise to 20 percent to 25
percent, from an estimated 10 percent to 15 percent of its $21
billion assets under management, New York-based Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Isaac Souede , 58, said in an interview
yesterday.  
 Investors took $700 million out of the $77 billion Asian
hedge fund industry in the first quarter after it  underperformed 
global peers, according to data from Chicago-based Hedge Fund
Research Inc. The European credit crisis and data showing
China’s economic growth is slowing have reduced concerns that
equities will be hurt by further government efforts to rein in
inflation, and overheating economies.  
 “The macroeconomic conditions were actually negative from
the beginning of the year until about four weeks ago for Chinese
equity markets and emerging markets,” said Souede, referring to
increased restrictions on real estate lending and the threat of
higher interest rates. “Now Europe is in economic decline and
China is close enough to a soft landing. Chinese markets will
become more interesting.”  
 The Chinese government has cracked down on property
speculation by raising down-payment ratios and mortgage rates
for multiple home buyers. It has also moved to cut down on local
government borrowing.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index, which has  fallen  28 percent
since a one-year peak in August, is the seventh-worst performer
this year out of 93 stock indexes tracked by Bloomberg globally.  
 Investment Strategies  
 Permal manages more than 30 funds of hedge funds and
separate accounts for institutional clients. Among those are a
China fund started in April, an Asian fund and a Japan pool.  
 About 42 of the 193 hedge fund managers Permal allocates
money to globally are focused on Asia, according to Souede. Its
Asian allocation includes money parceled out to managers whose
investments are not restricted to Asia, such as those that bet
on economic trends across regions.  
 Permal has expanded the money allocated to so-called
discretionary macro hedge funds by 10 percent to 20 percent in
the past year as investors seek shelter from market swings. The
funds employ a combination of human analysis and computers.  
 Discretionary funds have weathered the market swings better
than  systematic  macro funds which rely on computer models to bet
on economic trends by trading stocks, bonds, currencies and
commodities. The HFRI Macro: Systematic Diversified Index fell
1.7 percent in 2009, while the HFRI Fund Weighted Composite
Index gained almost 20 percent.  
 “It’s a very powerful tool which is much less correlated
than other things to protect equity portfolios, enhance returns
and reduce risks,” said Souede about discretionary macro funds.  
 Fixed Income  
 Permal’s total investments in macro strategies have risen
to $8 billion, about 20 percent higher than at the start of the
year, Souede said.  
 It also is moving a bigger portion of its fixed-income
holdings to funds that don’t rely on changing credit spreads, or
the excess yields investors demand for holding risky bonds over
risk-free Treasuries. Allocations to funds that trade credit
spreads fell to 52 percent of total fixed-income holdings, from
the 68 percent peak in the fourth quarter last year, said Souede.  
 Permal is increasing investments in managers that trade
fixed-income securities whose values are affected by events such
as company reorganizations, distress in commercial and
residential real estate, or those that exploit the pricing
differences between two similar bonds.  
 Distressed Property  
 “In the long-only space of fixed income, the easy money
has been made, and yields have been squeezed significantly,”
said Souede. “In a world when we still have a lot of distress
in commercial and residential real estate, and corporations have
a lot of refinancing coming up, the fixed-income spectrum in
sophisticated tools is quite interesting.”  
 Permal has seen “strong” net inflows this year,
especially in the second quarter, Souede said. He declined to
give a figure pending Baltimore-based Legg Mason’s results
announcement later this month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        