-- Egypt to Allow Libya's Gaza Aid Ship to Dock
-- Mahmoud Kassem
-- 2010-07-14T09:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/egypt-agrees-to-request-from-libyan-aid-ship-to-dock-in-el-arish-port.html

          
          
             Egypt agreed to a request by a
Libyan ship carrying aid for the Gaza Strip to dock at El Arish
after Israel’s navy said it would prevent access to the coastal
enclave, the state-run  Middle East News Agency  reported.  
 The ship, which was attempting to breach an Israeli embargo
of the Palestinian territory, is expected to reach the Egyptian
port today, the agency said, citing an unidentified security
official. Youssef Sawani, head of the Gaddafi International
Charity and Development Foundation which sponsored the shipment,
said in a phone interview late yesterday that the ship planned
to defy Israeli warnings and proceed to Gaza. Calls to his
mobile phone today were unanswered.  
 The Libyan ship is carrying 2,000 tons of food and
medicine, the foundation said. The Egyptian Red Crescent and
other authorities are preparing to receive the ship, the Cairo-
based news agency reported.  
 Nine pro-Palestinian activists from Turkey were killed on
May 31 after Israeli commandos raided one of six aid ships in a
flotilla trying to breach the embargo. Israel and Egypt loosened
restrictions on Gaza following international criticism of the
operation. Israel maintains a naval blockade of the area.  
 Israel and Egypt have been blockading Gaza since Hamas
seized full control there in 2007 after winning Palestinian
parliamentary elections the previous year. The Islamist militant
group is considered a terrorist organization by the U.S., the
European Union and Israel.  
 Israeli Vessels  
 The Libyan ship was being tailed by eight Israeli navy
vessels, Al Jazeera television, which has a correspondent
aboard, reported. It said the ship’s progress was being slowed
by an engine malfunction.  
 An Israeli military official, speaking on condition of
anonymity according to military regulations, said yesterday that
the ship’s captain had informed the navy he would dock in Egypt.  
 The owner of the ship, which departed from Greece on July
10, has said he didn’t want the vessel involved in any
confrontation, according to the website of the Gaddafi
organization, headed by Saif Al-Islam Qaddafi, the Libyan
leader’s son. The vessel was asked to change its destination or
turn back in an initial radio contact, an Israeli army spokesman
had said.  
 ‘No Reason’  
 “There is certainly no reason to try and break the
blockade since humanitarian aid flows unimpeded into Gaza,”
said Foreign Ministry spokesman  Yigal Palmor . “There are
appropriate ways to send aid, either through Ashdod or Egypt.”
Ashdod is a port in southwestern Israel.  
 The U.S. has urged the Libyan government to “avoid
unnecessary confrontations,” and called on the aid vessel to
deliver its goods “through established channels,” State
Department spokesman Peter Crowley said at a briefing in
Washington yesterday.  
 The May incident strained ties with Turkey, once Israel’s
closest ally in the Middle East. Israel rejected calls for an
international investigation into the incident, including demands
from Turkey, and set up its own inquiries. A civilian panel will
hear testimony from Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , Defense
Minister  Ehud Barak  and Chief of Staff Lieutenant General  Gabi Ashkenazi  next month.  
 Palestinians, backed by the United Nations and human-rights
groups, say the restrictions on food imports and construction
materials have created a humanitarian crisis.  
 Construction Materials  
 Israel’s Cabinet agreed on June 20 to allow in all foods
and lift some restrictions on construction materials. Israel has
said building supplies could be used to build rockets, bunkers
or bombs.  
 Israel launched a three-week military offensive in Gaza in
December 2008 that it said was meant to stop the firing of
rockets by Hamas and other Palestinian militants into its
territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict.  
 More than 400 rockets and mortars have been fired from Gaza
into Israel since the end of the war, killing a foreign worker,
the Israeli army said.  
 Israeli bombing and ground operations during the offensive
destroyed more than 3,000 homes, and Israel’s restrictions on
construction materials have prevented Palestinians from being
able to rebuild, the UN said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
 Mahmoud Kassem  at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        