-- Emerging-Market Stocks, Currencies Advance on Earnings, Singapore's Growth
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-07-14T22:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/emerging-market-stocks-currencies-gain-on-intel-profit-singapore-growth.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks rose for a
fifth day after Intel Corp. reported record second-quarter sales
and Singapore raised its 2010 economic growth forecast.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed 0.5 percent to
961.51 by 5 p.m. in New York, bringing its five-day rally to 3.4
percent. Technology companies led the advance, climbing 2
percent as a group. Benchmark equity indexes in Russia and
Brazil retreated as oil fell from a two-week high and a report
showed a bigger-than-forecast decline in U.S. retail sales.  
 Samsung Electronics Co.  of South Korea and Taipei-based
computer supplier Acer Inc. led technology shares higher after
Intel, the world’s biggest semiconductor maker, boosted its
 profit forecast  for the year to a record. Singapore’s 18.1
percent economic growth in the first half was the fastest since
records began in 1975, prompting the government to predict gross
domestic product will rise as much as 15 percent in 2010.  
 “Intel’s result indicates consumer spending is
expanding,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a strategist in Tokyo at
Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which oversees about $65
billion. “Given Singapore is a highly trade-dependent country,
its economic growth signals the global economy is recovering,
with trade as a main driver.”  
 Investors are increasing the representation of developing-
nation stocks in their portfolios, according to a BofA Merrill
Lynch Global Research survey of 202 fund managers who together
manage $530 billion released yesterday. A net 34 percent of
global asset allocators increased holdings relative to
benchmarks for emerging markets, compared with 19 percent in
May, according to the survey.  
 Samsung  
 Almost half of the investors said emerging markets is the
area they would most like to hold more stocks relative to
benchmark indexes in the next 12 months, more than double the
reading in May.  
 Samsung, Asia’s largest chipmaker, rose 3.5 percent and
Acer advanced 6.1 percent.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co.  climbed 1.3 percent.  
 Intel, the first major U.S. technology company to report
second-quarter earnings, said third-quarter sales will be about
$11.6 billion. Analysts had estimated $10.9 billion on average,
according to a Bloomberg  survey . Intel also posted second-
quarter net income of 51 cents a share, compared with analysts’
estimates of a profit of 43 cents a share.  
 The  Micex  Index in Russia, the world’s largest energy
exporter, dropped 0.7 percent and Brazil’s  Bovespa  lost 0.3
percent.  
 U.S. Retail Sales  
 Brazilian steelmakers  Gerdau SA  and  Usinas Siderurgicas de
Minas Gerais SA  declined amid speculation the global economic
recovery may lose strength, hurting demand.  
 Sales at U.S. retailers decreased 0.5 percent following a
1.1 percent May drop, Commerce Department figures showed today.
Retail sales were forecast to drop 0.3 percent after a 1.2
percent drop previously reported for May, according to the
median estimate of 75 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose for the first time in eight days,
increasing four basis points to 3.05 percentage points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        