-- Ten-Year Bonds Decline a Second Day After Data Shows Inflation Quickened
-- V. Ramakrishnan
-- 2010-07-14T12:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/ten-year-bonds-drop-for-second-day-on-concern-india-s-inflation-to-quicken.html

          
          
             India’s  10-year bonds  declined a
second day on concern quickening  inflation  will erode the value
of fixed-income investments.  
 Yields rose after government data today showed wholesale
prices rose more than 10 percent for the fifth straight month in
June. The  central bank  may raise interest rates for a second
time this month to curb inflation, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s top economic advisers signaled yesterday.  
 “Accelerating inflation is reducing returns from bonds,”
said  Sanjay Arya , treasurer at state-owned Bank of Maharashtra
in Mumbai. “Yields may continue to inch up as the central bank
is anyway behind the curve.”  
 The yield on the 7.80 percent note due May 2020 rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.63 percent as of the
5:30 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s
trading system. The price fell 0.07, or 7 paise per 100 rupee
face amount, to 101.14.  
 The benchmark wholesale-price index jumped 10.55 percent
from a year earlier, after a 10.16 percent gain in May, the
commerce ministry said in a statement in New Delhi today. The
inflation reading for April was raised to 11.23 percent, a 19-
month high, according to the statement.  
 “If  inflation  persists at double-digit levels for
several months together, some action by the Reserve Bank is
required,” Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime
Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said yesterday.  
 ‘Not Acceptable’  
 Montek Singh Ahluwalia , deputy chairman of the Planning
Commission, also said yesterday that the “central bank should
make whatever adjustments it feels necessary” as inflation
above 10 percent is “not acceptable.”  
 Inflation will slow to between 5 percent and 6 percent by
December, Ahluwalia said today after the data was published.  
 The Reserve Bank of India raised rates last on July 2, the
third increase this year. It increased the  reverse-repurchase
rate  to 4 percent from 3.75 percent and the  repurchase rate  to
5.5 percent from 5.25 percent, the third increase of the year.
The next policy meeting is set for July 27.  
 India’s summer crop will help cool food prices, Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said today. The government is
confident it will meet its budget deficit targets, he said.  
 The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
was little changed. The rate, a fixed payment made to receive
floating rates, was at 5.66 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        