-- Henry Goldman Granddaughter Talks About Sachs, IPOs: Interview
-- Zinta Lundborg
-- 2010-07-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/henry-goldman-granddaughter-talks-about-sachs-ipos-interview.html

          
          
             “The entryway on  Goldman Sachs ’s
executive floor is hung with paintings of all the senior
partners since the firm’s inception,” says  June Breton Fisher .
“I took a close look and finally asked, ‘Where’s my
grandfather?’”  
 He wasn’t there. No portrait, no photograph, not even a
snapshot recalled Henry Goldman, the founder’s son whose
financial innovations created the modern banking business.  
 Fisher’s book, “When Money Was in Fashion: Henry Goldman,
Goldman Sachs, and the Founding of Wall Street” ( Palgrave
Macmillan ), creates a vivid portrait of her grandfather, a man
erased from Goldman’s history.  
 Lundborg: What’s your favorite memory of your grandfather?  
 Fisher: We spent summer vacations as a family at my
grandparents’ home in the Adirondack Mountains. You could see
him in a more relaxed mode, see the fun side of him, like when
he went around in a cape and a crown.  
 Lundborg: Did you and he do things together?  
 Fisher: During tennis or croquet tournaments, I’d sit on
the hill with him. Since he was blind by then, I’d be the
sportscaster and tell him what was going on.  
 Lundborg: By then, he’d really revolutionized the business.  
 Fisher: He was a visionary in business: the progenitor of
the IPO, the P/E ratio, and the Fed, plus he’d underwritten 56
major corporations that were the building blocks of the economy.  
 Junk From a Cart  
 Lundborg: Your great-grandfather Marcus, who established
the firm, was even more impressive. He came to this country in
1848 as a poor immigrant and went from selling junk from a
horse-drawn cart in Philadelphia to creating Goldman in New
York. Yet at first, he asked his son-in-law, Sam Sachs, to join
the firm. Not Henry. Why?  
 Fisher: He underestimated Henry, who was not voluble in
conversation. Plus he’d dropped out of  Harvard  because of his
bad eyesight  
 Lundborg: Henry finally joined Goldman in 1885, so what
changed?  
 Fisher: The business had grown so fast, Marcus needed more
help. Henry was not hired at the same level as Sam Sachs, but he
immediately started to make a lot of money as a railroad bond
speculator.  
 His mind was quick and he found a lot of new things to
invest in. To me, what was most remarkable is that he laid out
the plan for issuing preferred and common stock in a company
like United Cigar in one hour.  
 Lundborg: What precipitated the bitter Goldman vs. Sachs
feud?  
 Pro-German  
 Fisher: To begin with, it was the total disparity between
Sam and Henry’s view of World War I. My grandfather was very
pro-German and Mr. Sachs was pro-Ally. They yelled at one
another about that for quite some time.  
 Lundborg: Until Henry finally left the company?  
 Fisher: He was angry and weary of all the conflicts, so he
finally cleared out his desk and walked out. He took 15 of the
biggest clients plus his share of the funds in the firm.  
 He’d been the most important partner, so he’d accumulated
the most money.  
 Lundborg: Why did he love Germany so much?  
 Fisher: My grandfather spent six months of the year in
Germany. He thought the German people were industrious,
innovative in their work habits, and they loved children and
flowers, which was the big line then.  
 Lundborg: Hitler helped him change his mind?  
 Fisher: Henry and his wife were in Berlin, where they’d
always had a wonderful time. Now many of their former friends
wouldn’t speak to them, they couldn’t get seats at the opera,
and the ice cream parlor waiter they’d known for 30 years was
reluctant to serve them.  
 Shoved Around  
 Even though he had a white cane, Henry was also shoved
around on the streets. He realized the country had changed.  
 Lundborg: What was his response?  
 Fisher: He helped a lot of friends -- artists, writers and
scientists -- get visas and work.  
 Lundborg: How did he become an art collector, despite his
bad eyesight?  
 Fisher: He fell in love with paintings, and with the help
of Joseph Duveen, acquired some great ones. His first major
purchase was Rembrandt’s “The Apostle Bartholomew,” when he
could still see.  
 He memorized all the details of each work and only sold the
collection when he knew he was dying.  
 Stradivarius  
 Lundborg: Henry was also a great music lover. For  Yehudi Menuhin ’s 12th birthday, he bought him the 1733 Prinz
Khevenhueller Stradivarius violin. How did the relationship come
to end on such a sad note?  
 Fisher: He and Yehudi were very close -- he called him
“Uncle Henry.” But his mother was very jealous and didn’t want
anyone meddling in his life.  
 When Henry was bed-ridden, my grandmother wrote to Yehudi
and asked him to come play Beethoven for him one last time. His
mother said “No way.” Unbelievably, he was 19 by then and
still obeyed her.  
 Lundborg: Goldman Sachs has been making headlines recently,
but this is not the first time the firm has been involved in
such controversy?  
 Fisher: No, Goldman was really pilloried in the 1930s.
Waddill Catchings, the man who was brought in to replace Henry,
was bright, but he was a scoundrel. He put together some
investment trusts that made a lot of money until they crashed.
It was all really just a Ponzi scheme.  
 Lundborg: What do you make of the current situation?  
 Fisher: I find it disappointing. My grandfather and Mr.
Sachs were very ethical, moral businessmen and what they really
wanted to do above all else was preserve the Goldman Sachs name.  
 To buy this book in North America, click  here .  
 ( Zinta Lundborg  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "When Money Was in Fashion"  
                       
                         
                           Goldberg McDuffie Communications via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The cover jacket of "When Money Was in Fashion: Henry Goldman, Goldman Sachs, and the Founding of Wall Street." 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The cover jacket of "When Money Was in Fashion: Henry Goldman, Goldman Sachs, and the Founding of Wall Street." Source: Goldberg McDuffie Communications via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       June Breton Fisher  
                       
                         
                           Goldberg McDuffie Communications via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Author June Breton Fisher. Fisher is the granddaughter of Henry Goldman, son of Goldman Sachs founder Marcus Goldman. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Author June Breton Fisher. Fisher is the granddaughter of Henry Goldman, son of Goldman Sachs founder Marcus Goldman. Source: Goldberg McDuffie Communications via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Henry Goldman  
                       
                         
                           Palgrave Macmillan via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Wall Street investor Henry Goldman. He was the son of Goldman Sachs founder, Marcus Goldman. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Wall Street investor Henry Goldman. He was the son of Goldman Sachs founder, Marcus Goldman. Source: Palgrave Macmillan via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Henry Goldman  
                       
                         
                           Palgrave Macmillan via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Henry Goldman on January 21st, 1890. The photo was taken on Goldman's wedding day. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Henry Goldman on January 21st, 1890. The photo was taken on Goldman's wedding day. Source: Palgrave Macmillan via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
