-- Merkel Loses Upper House as Opposition Takes Power in Most Populous State
-- Tony Czuczka
-- 2010-07-14T12:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/merkel-loses-upper-house-as-opposition-takes-power-in-most-populous-state.html

          
          
             Opposition parties took power in
Germany’s most populous state, costing Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
her majority in the upper house of parliament.  
 Lawmakers in the western state of North Rhine-Westphalia
backed the minority government of Social Democrats and Greens in
Dusseldorf today, sealing a shift stemming from the defeat of
Merkel’s coalition parties in the state’s May 9 election.  
 Losing control of the federal upper house in Berlin, the
 Bundesrat , where state governments are represented, may force
Merkel to bargain with the opposition to pass legislation. Her
Christian Democrat-led coalition trails the opposition in
national voter polls.  
 “The coalition will be able to pass important laws,”
including most of the government’s 81.6 billion-euro ($103.8
billion) package to reduce Germany’s budget deficit, Merkel was
cited as saying in an interview in the Dusseldorf-based
Rheinische Post newspaper  today . “On other issues, we’ll talk
to the states and count on the common sense of some of them.”  
 For Merkel’s plan to extend the running time of German
nuclear power plants, the government is studying whether draft
legislation will require upper-house approval, deputy government
spokesman  Christoph Steegmans  told reporters in Berlin today.  
 Today’s political shift ends five years of rule by Merkel’s
Christian Democrats in a state of 18 million people that is
Germany’s historic industrial heartland. The change in North
Rhine-Westphalia leaves her coalition with 31 votes in the upper
house, a loss of six votes and four short of a majority.  
 Decline in Poll  
 Merkel’s alliance of Christian Democrats, the Bavarian
Christian Social Union and Free Democrats has 35 percent voter
support in a weekly Forsa poll published today, compared with
48.4 percent that the bloc won in the national election in
September. The Social Democrats gained one percentage point to
28 percent, their highest in the poll this year, for a combined
total of 46 percent with the Greens.  
 The July 5-9 poll of 2,501 people for Stern magazine and
broadcaster RTL has a margin of error of as many as 2.5
percentage points.  
 Hannelore Kraft , a Social Democrat, took the oath of office
as North Rhine-Westphalia state premier, leading a government
that’s one vote short of a majority. To pass legislation, she’ll
depend on other parties in the state legislature, including the
anti-capitalist Left Party, which is dominated by former East
German communists, labor unionists and ex-Social Democrats.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        