-- European Union's Nations Approve Rules for Carbon Auctions After 2012
-- Mathew Carr
-- 2010-07-14T18:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/european-union-s-nations-approve-rules-for-carbon-auctions-after-2012.html

          
          
             European Union member states
unanimously approved rules for auctioning most of their carbon
permits after 2012, when the next phase of trading begins in
the world’s largest emissions market.  
 The EU, which has given away the majority of allowances
since it started its cap-and-trade program in 2005, will require
most emitters to purchase their allotment of permits in the
phase that starts in 2013 and runs through 2020. The European
Commission, the EU regulator, said countries will be able to
apply for permission to run national auctions alongside a common
European platform in the system’s third and later phases.  
 “The commission would have preferred a single platform,”
EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said in an e-mailed
statement. “But some member states insisted on the possibility
to have their own platform. So I am satisfied to see that member
states have found a compromise.”  
 Germany, Poland, Spain and the U.K. had asked for
individual auctions. The U.K. government, which already has its
own platform for selling CO2 permits, said in an e-mailed
statement today that it “successfully secured concessions which
will allow it to continue to hold its own national auctions.”  
 Today’s vote paves the way for the commission to start
talks on early auctions of phase-three CO2 permits before 2013.
 RWE AG , Germany’s second-biggest utility, is one of the
companies that said it needs phase-three permits immediately to
hedge the risk of power it is selling now for delivery in 2013
and beyond.  
 No More Freebies  
 West European utilities will no longer get free permits in
the third phase, while east European power plants will have to
buy 30 percent of their permits at auctions, with the amount
rising to 100 percent by 2020.  
 The volume of allowances to be auctioned in 2012 will be
set “at a later stage,” the commission said today.  
 The International Emissions Trading Association , a Geneva-
based lobby for carbon traders, welcomed the adoption of
auctioning regulation. The market now expects the EU regulator
and governments to “rapidly advance” discussions on the
timetable for early auctions, including publication of volumes
“ideally” in September.  
 “It is a relief that the framework for running these
auctions in a harmonized and safe manner across the EU is now
established,” said Simone Ruiz, European policy director at
IETA in Brussels. “We will indeed see a radical change from
2013, when over 50 percent of emission permits in the system
will be auctioned compared to around 5 percent today.”  
 The vote on the auctioning regulation sets up a three-month
scrutiny period in the council of ministers and the European
parliament, after which the measure will be adopted by the
commission.  
 EU permits for December closed 1.2 percent higher at 14.01
euros ($17.87) a metric ton on London’s European Climate
Exchange, paring this month’s decline to 8.2 percent. They
earlier dropped to 13.61 euros, the lowest level since April 13.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at   
          
          


  


        