-- European Union Regulators Promise Tougher Rules for Offshore Oil Drillers
-- Jonathan Stearns
-- 2010-07-14T18:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/european-union-regulators-promise-tougher-rules-for-offshore-oil-drillers.html

          
          
             The European Union’s environment
chief vowed to push for tighter rules on oil exploration
following BP Plc’s spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 European Environment Commissioner  Janez Potocnik  said he
will seek stricter standards for offshore-oil drillers and
broader liability rules. The aim would be to ensure that oil-rig
operators “can demonstrate their technological capacity to deal
with such accidents” and to widen EU environmental-liability
legislation covering coastal areas to include all marine waters.  
 “We have gaps in our rules,” Potocnik told reporters in
Brussels today after he and Energy Commissioner Guenther
Oettinger met oil-industry representatives. “Doing nothing is
not an option.”  
 The 27-nation EU is considering ways to improve safety and
bolster the “polluter pays” principle in the petroleum
industry following the Gulf of Mexico spill, the largest in
U.S. history. Last week, Oettinger urged a ban on new offshore
oil drilling until the causes of the accident are known, citing 
the need for “utmost caution.”  
 Oettinger repeated today his call to EU national
governments, which grant oil-exploration permits. He cited the
example of Norway, a non-EU country that last month banned
deepwater drilling in new areas until more information is
available about the Gulf of Mexico spill.  
 “What is good for Norway should be good for European Union
member states as well,” Oettinger said at the press conference
with Potocnik. The U.S. government has temporarily banned deep-
water drilling.  
 At Least Two Years  
 Any proposals by the European Commission, the EU’s
regulatory arm, would need the support of national governments
and the European Parliament, a process that can take two years
or more.  
 Michael Engell-Jensen, executive director of the
 International Association of Oil and Gas Producers , said a
drilling moratorium is unnecessary because regulators as well as
companies have stepped up safety procedures in the wake of the
BP accident.  
 “The industry feels that we have a system in Europe which
does provide a safety which is acceptable,” he said at the
event with Oettinger and Potocnik. “When companies apply for
permits, there is an extra sharp eye from the regulator.”  
 BP’s Macondo well has been gushing as much as 60,000
barrels of oil a day into the Gulf of Mexico following an April
20 rig explosion that killed 11 workers. The spill has fouled
beaches, killed wildlife and shut a swath of fishing grounds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        