-- European Inflation Slows, Industrial Output Advances Less Than Forecast
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-07-14T09:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/european-inflation-slows-industrial-output-advances-less-than-forecast.html

          
          
             European inflation slowed in June
and industrial production increased less than economists
forecast in May as the economy struggled to gather strength.  
 Consumer prices  in the 16-member euro region rose 1.4
percent from a year ago after increasing 1.6 percent in May, the
European Union statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
 Industrial production  rose 0.9 percent in May from the previous
month, when it also increased 0.9 percent, a separate report
showed today. Economists forecast output to rise 1.2 percent,
the median of 27 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  
 European companies have relied on faster-growing economies
and a weaker euro to boost sales after rising unemployment
eroded household spending.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the
world’s largest luxury carmaker, yesterday raised its 2010
earnings forecast. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on  July 8  forecast the economy to grow at a “moderate”
pace and said inflation may accelerate “later in the year.”  
 “The euro region’s manufacturing upturn may now be losing
some momentum,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at
IHS Global Insight in London. At the same time, “underlying
inflationary pressures continue to be held down by still
significant output gaps across the region and only gradual
recovery, muted capacity utilization, and wage moderation.”  
 The euro was little changed after the release, trading at
$1.2711 at 11:25 a.m. in Frankfurt.  
 Global Recovery  
 Today’s inflation report was in line with an estimate
published on June 30. In the month,  consumer prices  remained
unchanged, today’s report showed.  Core inflation , which excludes
volatile costs such as energy, accelerated to 0.9 percent in
June from 0.8 percent in the previous month.  
 The ECB last month forecast  euro-region inflation  to
average about 1.5 percent this year and around 1.6 percent in
2011. The Frankfurt-based central bank aims to keep annual gains
in consumer prices just below 2 percent.  
 “Inflation isn’t an issue in the euro region,” said
 Christoph Weil , a senior economist at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “Headline rate might accelerate a little bit but
underlying price pressures may even weaken on declining wages.”  
 While an 11 percent drop in the euro against the dollar
this year has made imported goods more expensive and added
pressure on companies to cut prices, it’s also encouraging
export demand. In Germany, Europe’s largest economy,  exports 
jumped more than twice as much as economists forecast in May.  
 Economic Expansion  
 The global economy will expand 4.6 percent in 2010, the
fastest growth since 2007, instead of a previously projected 4.2
percent, the  International Monetary Fund  said on July 8. In the
euro region, the economy may expand 1 percent this year and 1.3
percent in 2011, the Washington-based fund forecast.  
 Munich-based  BMW  said yesterday that it “expects to report
much better” second-quarter results. Rival  Volkswagen AG  said
on July 12 that sales in China surged 46 percent in the first
half.  Continental AG , Europe’s second-largest auto-parts maker,
said on July 2 that while higher raw-material costs will hurt
earnings, it still expects full-year sales to rise.  
 Production of intermediate goods rose 0.8 percent in May
from the previous month, when it increased 2.1 percent, today’s
report showed. Output of capital goods such as factory machinery
rose 1 percent, down from 1.8 percent in April, while energy
production rose 0.6 percent from the previous month.  
 With governments stepping up budget consolidation measures,
the region’s recovery is showing some signs of losing momentum.
Growth in Europe’s  services and manufacturing industries  slowed
for a second month in June and German investor confidence
declined for a third month in July.  
 “The export-led industrial recovery is bound to lose
significant momentum in the second half,” said  Martin van Vliet , an economist at ING Group in Amsterdam. “But with the
continued support from a weaker euro, a relapse into recession
should be avoided.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        