-- Ex-IKB CEO Convicted of Misleading Investors About Bank's Subprime Risks
-- Karin Matussek
-- 2010-07-14T11:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/ex-ikb-chief-ortseifen-convicted-of-market-manipulation-over-subprime.html

          
          
             Former  IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG 
Chief Executive Officer  Stefan Ortseifen  became the first person
in Germany to be convicted over the financial crisis and was
given a 10-month suspended sentence by a German court today.  
 The Dusseldorf Regional Court convicted Ortseifen for
misstating IKB’s risks regarding asset-backed securities tied to
the U.S. mortgage market in a  press release , which his trial
centered on. The former executive has denied wrongdoing. In
addition to the suspended term, Ortseifen must pay 100,000 euros
($127,000) to charities.  
 “It wasn’t our task to investigate the reasons for the
financial crisis, the role of the banks or the rating
agencies,” presiding judge  Brigitte Koppenhoefer  said after the
verdict. “We simply had to look into whether Mr. Ortseifen
violated criminal statutes by the acts he was charged with.”  
 Ortseifen was accused of misleading investors by
downplaying the effect of the U.S. subprime crisis in the July
20, 2007, press release. IKB received a bailout package 10 days
later and subsequently got as much as 12 billion euros in
guarantees from Germany’s bank-rescue fund.  
 Ortseifen’s lawyer,  Rainer Hamm , had asked for an acquittal
and said his client would appeal today’s decision.  
 Prosecutor Nils Bussee had sought the 10-month suspended
prison term and an “adequate” penalty.  
 Credit Ratings  
 IKB’s shares dropped starting in April 2007 over rumors of
its subprime risks and Moody’s Investors Service said in early
July 2007 it needed to revise its ratings on some asset-backed
securities. Ortseifen wanted to react with a release that also
addressed the bank’s quarterly results, Koppenhoefer said.  
 “Ortseifen didn’t want to be pushed by the markets, so he
decided to issue a calming press release,” Koppenhoefer said
today. “It was drafted to include as much as possible about IKB
quarterly results and as little as possible about its subprime
risks.”  
 The statement was misleading, because it gave an “all-
clear” signal to the markets as to IKB’s risk, which didn’t
correlate to its actual situation, the judge said.  
 Ortseifen, who approved the final wording of the release,
deliberately made the text look as if it included risks
connected to IKB’s Rhineland Funding affiliate. That vehicle’s
write-downs because of Moody’s announcement were 117 million
euros alone, and IKB also knew that more downgrades were ahead,
Koppenhoefer said.  
 “Everyone knew that the markets could only understand the
statement as to include Rhineland Funding’s exposure,” said
Koppenhoefer. “The shares rose when the release came out.”  
 At the opening of the case in March, Ortseifen blamed
 Deutsche Bank AG  for causing IKB’s near-collapse in 2007.
Deutsche Bank Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  testified
at the trial that IKB’s capital base was in peril before
Deutsche Bank ended its credit line.  
 The case is LG Dusseldorf, 14 KLs 6/09.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Dusseldorf via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        