-- Texas Rangers, Visteon, Centaur Creditors, Arrow Air, Axia: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-07-14T15:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/texas-rangers-visteon-centaur-creditors-arrow-air-axia-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             The  Texas Rangers  professional
baseball club will hold an auction on Aug. 4 with an opening bid
from the group that agreed to buy the team just before the
filing for bankruptcy reorganization in May.  
 Other bids are due initially on Aug. 3. The auction will be
held in the courtroom.  
 The first bid will come from a group led by current team
President Nolan Ryan and sports lawyer Chuck Greenberg. They
signed a contract to purchase the club for about $304 million
cash prior to the Chapter 11 filing on May 24.  
 The team filed a new motion yesterday for approval of
auction procedures after the Ryan-Greenberg group agreed to
modify the original contract by raising the price to $306.7
million. In addition, they sweetened the offer by lowering an
escrow holdback from $30 million to $10 million and by not
forcing other purchasers to take over the lease for the team
airplane.  
 The chief restructuring officer for the partnerships that
own the team told the judge at yesterday’s quickly convened
hearing that an auction on Aug. 4 wouldn’t give other bidders
enough time. The team wanted the auction July 22.  
 The judge at first took sides with the team on having an
auction in July and then came down with the Aug. 4 date to
compromise the positions by the team and the restructuring
officer.  
 If the Ryan-Greenberg group is outbid, they would receive a
$15 million breakup fee. In return for the fee, the so-called
stalking-horse agreed to waive exclusivity provisions in the May
contract.  
 Before the auction, other bidders must be approved by Major
League Baseball. Although the leaders of the two competing
groups have approval, the members of their groups don’t as yet.  
 The first competing bid at auction must be $15 million
higher than the Ryan-Greenberg offer to cover the breakup fee.
For Bloomberg coverage on yesterday’s hearing, click here.  
 Secured lenders owed $525 million have security interests
in the partnerships that own the team. The lenders opposed the
contract with the Ryan-Greenberg group and believed there would
be a higher offer at auction. Under the May contract, the
lenders would recover $256 million, according to the team’s
disclosure statement.  
 William K. Snyder was appointed as restructuring officer
for the two partnerships that own the team. His appointment came
after some of the lenders filed an involuntary bankruptcy
petition against the partnerships. His responsibilities include
deciding whether the partnership would vote for or against the
team’s Chapter 11 reorganization plan. He was opposed to the
team’s reorganization plan if the original contract weren’t
modified and an auction weren’t held.  
 The Rangers moved from Washington to Texas in 1972. The
team defaulted on payments owing to the lenders in March 2009.
Michael Rochelle, a brother of Bloomberg reporter Bill Rochelle,
is a lawyer for an agent for the lenders. The partnership that
owns the team is Texas Rangers Baseball Partners.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 Updates  
 Visteon’s End of Retiree Benefit Overturned on Appeal  
 Workers won a victory yesterday when the U.S. Court of
Appeals in Philadelphia ruled that auto parts maker  Visteon
Corp . didn’t have the unilateral right to terminate health and
life insurance benefits for retirees absent compliance with
procedures specified in bankruptcy law.  
 Soon after filing for bankruptcy reorganization in May
2009, Visteon filed a motion in bankruptcy court claiming it had
the ability to terminate because the pre-bankruptcy programs
reserved the company’s right to end retire health and insurance
benefits at any time.  
 The bankruptcy court agreed, and the district court
affirmed on the first appeal. The Communications Workers of
America appealed again and won in a 95-page opinion handed down
yesterday by the 3rd Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadelphia.  
 The circuit court said its ruling was commanded by the
plain language of Section 1114(e) of the Bankruptcy Code which
says that a company “shall timely pay and shall not modify any
retiree benefits” without following the procedures laid out in
the section.  
 The ruling means that Visteon must reinstate retiree
benefits that ended in May. The appellate court gave Visteon an
escape hatch when it said that Visteon could end retiree
benefits on emerging from bankruptcy reorganization, assuming it
hadn’t bargained away termination rights during bankruptcy. The
ruling affects 8,000 retirees, the opinion says.  
 The lower courts are divided on the issue. Three bankruptcy
courts, including the judge in the reorganization of  Delphi
Corp. , ruled that a company could end retiree benefits
unilaterally if there were no contract or promise requiring
continuation. Two courts, including one in New York, came down
on the same side as the 3rd Circuit.  
 The three judges on the Philadelphia appellate panel
criticized courts for mistakenly relying “on their own view
about sensible policy, rather than on the congressional policy
choice reflected in the unambiguous language of the statute.”
The unanimous 3rd Circuit said the statute “could hardly be
clearer.”  
 Visteon is approaching a contested confirmation hearing for
approval of the reorganization plan. The bankruptcy judge set
aside 10 days, beginning Sept. 28, to air out objections to the
plan. Shareholders and some creditors are in opposition. For
details on Visteon’s plan, click here for the June 15 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report. For a summary of the positions by various
parties before the judge approved the disclosure statement,
click here for the May 25 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Visteon filed for reorganization in May 2009, listing
assets of $4.6 billion against debt totaling $5.3 billion. Sales
in 2008 were $9.5 billion, including $3.1 billion to  Ford Motor
Co . Visteon was spun off from Ford in 2000. Van Buren Township,
Michigan-based Visteon at the outset owed $2.7 billion for
borrowed money, including $1.5 billion on a secured term loan,
$862 million on unsecured bonds, and $214 million on other debt
obligations.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Lehman Examiner Discharged, May Still Give Assistance  
 Anton R. Valukas , the examiner who wrote a 2,209-page
report about the downfall of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , was
officially discharged yesterday, although the bankruptcy judge
created a process where he can continue assisting parties in the
case on request.  
 Valukas can provide assistance to Lehman, the creditors’
committee, government agencies and the U.S. Trustee, with his
fees paid by Lehman. The order signed by the bankruptcy judge
yesterday erected procedures where third parties also can
request Valukas’s assistance.  
 In the case of third-party requests, there must be notice
and an opportunity for other parties to object. If there isn’t
resolution, the bankruptcy court can resolve the dispute. The
examiner’s fees must paid by third-parties who need his help.  
 The bankruptcy judge also told Valukas to turn over his
electronic archive of evidence to a “neutral vendor.” The
order yesterday established procedures where creditors in the
Lehman case and third parties can serve subpoenas to obtain
documents from the electronic data base.  
 In his February report, Valukas concluded there were what
he called colorable claims against senior executives, auditor
Ernst & Young LLP and some banks. All of the report was unsealed
in March. To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 Lehman has a Chapter 11 plan and explanatory disclosure
statement on file. For details on both, click here and here for
the April 15 and 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports.  
 The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment banking business to London-based  Barclays
Plc  one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  
 The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Nortel Files Plan, Without Disclosure, On Last Day  
 Nortel Networks Inc. , North America’s largest
communications equipment provider at one time, filed a
liquidating Chapter 11 plan yesterday without a disclosure
statement telling creditors how much they stand to receive and
why.  
 The plan was filed on the last day of the companies’
exclusive right to propose a liquidation scheme. Having now been
in Chapter 11 for 18 months, bankruptcy law doesn’t allow
further expansion of so-called exclusivity. With the filing of
the plan, Nortel retains the exclusive right to solicit
acceptances of a plan until Sept. 13.  
 The plan says that secured creditors will be paid in full
and won’t be entitled to vote. The plan provides for
distribution of remaining asset-sale proceeds to unsecured
creditors after creditors with higher priorities are paid in
full.  
 The plan says there will be no distributions to creditors
with subordinated claims. Likewise, shareholders and claimants
in securities fraud suits aren’t to receive anything. Interest
won’t be paid on claims and creditors’ can’t collect more than
100 percent, including distributions from the companion
bankruptcy case in Canada.  
 The plan is in substance 16 plans for Nortel and
affiliates. There is no substantive consolidation where the
various corporations would be disregarded, with all assets and
all claims thrown into one pot. Thus, the recovery will vary
depending on the company against which a claim is held.  
 Nortel raised $2.6 billion from the sale of some
businesses. Patents and patent applications are yet to be sold.  
 Ericsson AB , the world’s largest producer of wireless
networks, acquired the primary wireless carrier business for
$1.13 billion. It was also part of a group that made the $103
million high bid for Nortel’s so-called GSM business. Ericsson
offered to pay $242 million cash for Nortel’s half interest in a
South Korean joint venture named LG-Nortel Co.  
 Other sales include the optical networking and carrier
Ethernet networks business bought by  Ciena Corp.  in December for
$769 million. Nortel also sold the Internet telephony business
for $182 million after adjustments.  
 The Toronto-based Nortel companies filed for bankruptcy
reorganization in January 2009 in the U.S., Canada and London.
The Nortel companies reported $11.6 billion in consolidated
assets against debt totaling $11.8 billion as of Sept. 30.
Revenue was $9.7 billion in 2007. For the first nine months of
2008, sales were $6.8 billion.  
 The Chapter 11 case is In re Nortel Networks Inc., 09-
10138, and the parent’s Chapter 15 case is In re Nortel Networks
Corp., 09-10164, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Centaur Committee Finds Defects in Lender Collateral  
 The creditors’ committee for casino and racetrack operator
Centaur LLC. believes there are defects in the security
interests on $192 million in collateral claimed by the first-and
second-lien lenders.  
 The committee arranged a hearing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Delaware for July 21 where it will ask the judge for
permission to sue the secured creditors and negotiate
settlements.  
 The committee also believes that guarantees of secured debt
given by subsidiaries are fraudulent transfers that may be
voided in bankruptcy.  
 At a hearing on July 28 Centaur will be seeking court
approval for auction and sales procedures pertaining to the
Fortune Valley Hotel & Casino 40 miles west of Denver. The
initial bid will come from Luna Gaming Central City LLC.  
 The price is $7.5 million cash plus a $2.5 million note,
less adjustments.  
 Centaur wants other bids five days before an auction on
Aug. 23.  
 Subsidiaries Centaur PA Land LP and Valley View Downs LP
filed for bankruptcy reorganization in October to keep alive a
project to develop a racetrack in Pennsylvania. Centaur LLC and
12 affiliates filed Chapter 11 petitions in March. All the
companies are subsidiaries of closely owned Centaur Inc., which
is not itself in bankruptcy.  
 The March filings listed assets of $584 million and debt of
$681 million. The March filings resulted from the failure to
make payments due in October on a $382.5 million first-lien debt
and a $192 million second-lien credit.  
 The companies have horse racing and gambling facilities in
five markets in Indiana and Colorado. They are developing a
property in Pennsylvania, 55 miles from Pittsburg to be called
 Valley View Downs and Casino .  
 Delays in opening the new track together with the $250
million licensing fee paid in Pennsylvania left the companies
with insufficient cash flow to service debt, a court filing
said.  
 The companies own Hoosier Park, a casino and horse
racetrack, in Anderson, Indiana, along with three offtrack
betting parlors in Indiana. They also own Fortune Valley Hotel &
Casino in Central City, Colorado, which has a 118-room hotel to
complement the casino. The companies generated revenue of $277.5
million in 2009.  
 The newer case is Centaur LLC, 10-10799, and the first case
was In re Centaur PA Land LP, 09-13760, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 St. Vincent House Staff Opposes Payments to Others  
 St. Vincent Catholic Medical Centers, a shuttered 727-bed
acute-care hospital in Manhattan’s Greenwich Village, shouldn’t
be permitted by the bankruptcy judge to pay  pre-bankruptcy
salaries owing to independent contractors when interns and
residents haven’t received vacation pay and travel
reimbursement, the union for the so-called house staff said in a
July 12 court filing.  
 Although the interns and resident have been paid wages
owing before bankruptcy, they contend vacation pay is an expense
that bankruptcy law requires being paid in full. They worry that
St. Vincent will end up with insufficient cash to pay priority
claims such as those for accrued vacation time.  
 The house staff doesn’t want bankruptcy priorities turned
upside down by paying pre-bankruptcy wages for independent
contractors when the interns and residents haven’t received
vacation pay. The bankruptcy judge will sort out the issues at a
hearing tomorrow.  
 Independent contractors are individuals who worked in the
hospital although they weren’t regular employees.  
 St. Vincent is in Chapter 11 a second time. The new
petition in April listed assets of $348 million against debt
totaling $1.09 billion. The hospital concluded the prior
reorganization in July 2007 with a Chapter 11 plan claimed at
the time to have a “a realistic chance” of paying all
creditors in full. The prior reorganization left the medical
center with more than $1 billion in debt. When the first
bankruptcy started in July 2005, St. Vincent had seven operating
hospitals. Five were sold.  
 The main facility has 941,000 square feet in 10 buildings.
The not-for-profit hospital is sponsored by the Catholic Diocese
of Brooklyn and the Sisters of Charity. It was founded in the
mid-19th century.  
 The new case is In re Saint Vincent Catholic Medical
Centers of New York, 10-11963, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The prior case was In re Saint
Vincent Catholic Medical Centers of New York, 05-14945, in the
same court.  
 Cargo Carrier Arrow Air Has Cash Use for Liquidation  
 Arrow Air Inc., at one time the largest cargo airline in
Miami, won interim approval on July 12 to use cash representing
collateral for secured lenders’ claims. Cash may only be used in
accordance with an approved budget.  
 Arrow filed again under Chapter 11 on June 30. The final
hearing on financing is set for July 22.  
 The so-called cash collateral order allows the official
creditors’ committee to spend $50,000 investigating whether the
lenders’ liens are valid. Otherwise, the committee can’t spend
any of the lenders’ cash collateral to sue secured creditors.  
 The new Chapter 11 case is Arrow’s third. This time, it’s a
liquidation. It halted operations the day before the Chapter 11
filing. Also known as Arrow Cargo, it operated 60 flights a week
with four leased DC-10-30 and three leased B757-200 aircraft.  
 Arrow was acquired in June 2008 by a fund affiliated with
MatlinPatterson Global Advisors. Arrow owes MatlinPatterson
funds $72 million on term loans. The principal amount of the
secured term loan is $58.5 million and the unsecured loan is
$7.8 million.  
 The case is In re Arrow Air Inc., 10-28831, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District Florida (Miami).  
 Daily Podcast  
 Texas Rangers, General Growth, Riviera Casino: Audio  
 The newest developments in the sale of the  Texas Rangers 
baseball club, the public offering to accompany the
reorganization of  General Growth Properties Inc. , and the
prepackaged filing by Las Vegas casino owner  Riviera Holdings
Corp.  are discussed in the latest bankruptcy podcast on the
Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  
 Statistics  
 Claim Trading Activity Declines in June  
 As major Chapter 11 filings have fallen this year, so too
have the number of claim trades reported to the country’s
bankruptcy courts.  
 In June $2.146 billion in claim trades were reported, the
second fewest this year, according to a report yesterday from
SecondMarket Inc. In amount, traded claims in June were one-
third fewer than May.  
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , with $1.9123 billion in face
amount of traded claims, was responsible for the bulk of
activity.     Flying J Inc. came in second place with $84.8
million in traded claims. Flying J, a vertically integrated oil
producer, refiner, and marketer, had its Chapter 11 plan
confirmed July 9.  
 In number of trades, Lehman as usual led the pack with 224
trades.  Smurfit-Stone Container Corp ., with 114 trades, came in
second, after implementing its Chapter 11 plan in June.  
 In June claims were traded in 64 separate bankruptcy cases,
compared with 47 cases in May, SecondMarket said in its report.  
 Downgrades  
 CKE and InVentive Downgraded on Acquisitions  
 CKE Restaurants Inc.  and  InVentiv Health Inc.  were both
downgraded yesterday by Standard & Poor’s as a result of being
acquired.  
 CKE, the operator of nearly 3,150 restaurants, was acquired
on July 12 by an affiliate of  Apollo Management LP  for $12.55 a
share. The corporate rating for the Carpinteria, California-
based company slid by two notches to B.  
 InVentive, a sales and marketing service provider for the
life sciences industry, is to be acquired later this year by an
affiliate of Thomas H. Lee Partners LP. The corporate grade for
the Somerset, New Jersey-based company went down one click to
B+.  
 CKE’s franchises or owns stores operating under names
including Carl’s Jr. and Hardee’s.  
 Briefly Noted  
 Axia Sold Asset, Sets Conversion to Chapter 7 Aug. 1  
 Axia Inc., formerly a manufacturer of automatic taping and
drywall finishing tools, completed the sale of the business in
March to a group including existing lenders and shareholders and
has an appointment in bankruptcy court tomorrow on a motion for
conversion of the case to Chapter 7 effective Aug. 1. Axis, now
formally named ATT011 Inc., doesn’t have enough cash to pay
creditors whose claims must be paid in full in a Chapter 11
plan.  
 The purchasers paid for the business with a $9 million note
payable to the senior term loan lenders and 21.5 percent of the
equity earmarked for the subordinated secured term loan. Axia
filed under Chapter 11 in December. The Duluth, Georgia-based
company sold its products through 72 stores and 130 franchisees.
Assets on Oct. 30 were $178 million. Liabilities included $69.2
million on a senior secured term loan and a $91.8 million
subordinated secured term loan.  
 The case is In re Ames Holding Corp., 09-14406, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        