-- Mexico's Government Rents Bodyguards to Officials Amid Rising Violence
-- Jens Erik Gould
-- 2010-07-14T18:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/mexico-s-government-rents-bodyguards-to-officials-amid-rising-violence.html

          
          
             Mexican President  Felipe Calderon ’s
government began renting bodyguards to public officials for
protection against rising violence, two weeks after a leading
candidate for governor was gunned down.  
 Public servants can pay a daily fee for protection ranging
from 1,365 pesos to 2,620 pesos ($107 to $206) depending on the
bodyguard’s skill level and the type of arms and vehicles used,
according to a decree from Public Security Minister  Genaro Garcia Luna  published in the government’s  official gazette 
yesterday. The service, which provides bodyguards trained by the
ministry, is only available to government workers.  
 The state will continue to provide bodyguards for top
officials free of charge. Last year, the Public Security
Ministry began offering federal lawmakers and court workers the
option to pay for additional protection of their facilities.  
 Officials are expanding the types of protection available
for government workers after the June 28 killing of  Rodolfo Torre Cantu , a candidate for governor in the border state of
Tamaulipas. It marked an escalation of Mexico’s drug-fueled
violence and represented the highest-level political
assassination since presidential candidate  Luis Donaldo Colosio 
was killed in March 1994.  
 Mexico has turned increasingly violent since Calderon came
to office in December 2006 vowing to fight traffickers. More
than 22,000 people have been killed in Mexico in violence
related to organized crime since Calderon came to power,
according to the U.S. State Department.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adriana Lopez Caraveo  in Mexico City at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net 
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        