-- Accel Leads Investments of $100 Million in Software Companies
-- Ari Levy
-- 2010-07-14T18:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/facebook-backer-accel-partners-leads-100-million-of-software-investments.html

          
          
             Accel Partners, the first venture
firm to back Facebook Inc., led investments of almost $100
million today in two software makers, advancing its strategy of
taking shares in later-stage technology companies.  
 Accel purchased a $60 million minority stake in Sydney-
based  Atlassian Pty  and co-led a $38.5 million investment in New
York-based  Squarespace Inc. , according to statements today. Both
companies are at least seven years old and taking institutional
money for the first time.  
 The investments come out of Accel’s $480 million growth
fund, which last year bought a stake in Groupon Inc., the online
coupon provider that’s valued at $1.35 billion. Atlassian and
Squarespace are both profitable and fit into Accel’s plan to
help Internet and software companies that are already successful
accelerate growth, said  Rich Wong , a partner at the Palo Alto,
California-based firm.  
 “You’re starting to see a continued shift toward software
technology and toward the Web,” said Wong, who is joining
Atlassian’s board. “Mobile, the social Web and software are
going to continue to be great categories to invest in.”  
 Accel, founded in 1983, profited from two of the biggest
acquisitions of venture-backed companies last year.  Google Inc. 
bought mobile-advertising company AdMob Inc. for $750 million,
and Electronic Arts Inc. acquired social game maker Playfish
Inc. for as much as $400 million.  
 Accel’s biggest boon may come when Facebook sells shares to
the public. The firm bought a $12.7 million  stake  in Facebook in
2005, when the social network had 2.8 million users, less than 1
percent of its current membership.  
 Eye Toward IPO  
 Accel’s investments follow a slowdown in venture funding.
In the first quarter, venture capitalists invested a total of
$4.7 billion in the U.S., compared with an average of $6 billion
per quarter since 2005, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers and
the  National Venture Capital Association . Second-quarter data
will be released this week.  
 In Atlassian, Accel gets a piece of a company that provides
software to over 20,000 business customers in 134 countries. The
technology helps software developers collaborate on projects and
speed product development. Sales at Atlassian jumped 30 percent
to $59 million in the year ended June 30, said co-founder  Scott
Farquhar . The funds will be used to help the company expand into
Europe and Asia and make acquisitions.  
 “We wanted to form a great board around the company with a
view toward going public over the coming years,” Farquhar said.
Wong will provide industry “expertise, advice and contacts,”
Farquhar said.  
 Squarespace plans to use the $38.5 million in funds for
product development and geographic expansion. Accel was joined
by  Index Ventures , another investor in Playfish, in leading the
round. Accel’s  Andrew Braccia  and Index’s  Dom Vidal  are joining
the company’s board.  
 Squarespace’s technology is used by tens of thousands of
businesses, bloggers and consumers worldwide to create and
publish Web pages and analyze usage of the sites.  
 “We believe in the team, the technology, and the market
potential and are excited to be a part of such a fast-growing
business,” Vidal said in a statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        