-- Sukuk Premium Falling 70% in Indonesia as Asia Sales Jump: Islamic Finance
-- David Yong
-- 2010-07-14T04:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/falling-asian-sukuk-premium-shows-confidence-before-sales-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             The yield premium on Indonesia’s
sovereign sukuk over non-Islamic bonds is down 70 percent since
the bonds were sold in April 2009, while Malaysia’s debt rallied
to a record as investors gain confidence in the securities.  
 The difference in yield between Indonesia’s 8.8 percent
Islamic debt due April 2014 and notes maturing the same year
that don’t adhere to the religion’s ban on interest narrowed to
26 basis points, or 0.26 percentage point, from 87 at the time
of issue, according to prices from the Royal Bank of Scotland
Group. The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent sukuk due June 2015
dropped 47 basis points to 3.37 percent since it started trading
May 28, prices from HSBC Holdings Plc show.  
 Sukuk from Asian nations are rallying before $5.8 billion
in planned sales in the region this year, including a 1 billion
ringgit ($312 million) offering from Kuala Lumpur-based  Cagamas
Bhd. , Malaysia’s biggest mortgage buyer. Indonesia chose three
banks yesterday to manage the sale of as much as $650 million in
Islamic bonds in October after securing credit ratings upgrades
from Standard & Poor’s Corp. and Moody’s Investors Service in
the past year as the economy recovered.  
 “Investors look at Indonesia favorably and there’s no bad
story hanging over it,”  Cornel Bruhin , a Zurich-based fund
manager at Clariden Leu AG, which owns the country’s sukuk in
its $377 million Emerging Markets Bond Fund, said in an
interview yesterday. “There’s the prospect it will become an
investment grade” issuer, he said.  
 Indonesia Ratings  
 S&P upgraded Indonesia’s credit rating to BB in March, two
levels below investment grade, while Moody’s raised its ranking
in September 2009 to Ba2, also two notches below.  
 The yield on Indonesia’s dollar-denominated Islamic notes
fell to a record low of 3.44 percent today, compared with 8.37
percent at the time of issue, and returned 27 percent since the
sale on April 17, 2009, according to RBS prices. The  HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index , made up of Islamic bonds from
Indonesia to Saudi Arabia, gained 15 percent in the same period.  
 Global sales of notes that comply with the religion’s ban
on interest fell 24 percent to $6.6 billion so far this year.
Cagamas yesterday set up a 5 billion ringgit program to sell
notes that will attract investors in the Middle East, Chief
Executive Officer Steven Choy said in Kuala Lumpur. The first
offering may take place within a month, he said.  
 Cagamas last sold Islamic debt on June 15, raising a total
of 500 million ringgit, Bloomberg data show.  
 Economic Growth  
 Malaysia’s Axiata Group Bhd., Southeast Asia’s second-
biggest mobile-phone operator, plans to sell as much as 4.2
billion ringgit of sukuk by the end of the month to refinance
debt, Chief Financial Officer Yusof Annuar Yaacob said in Kuala
Lumpur on June 22. The Islamic Bank of Thailand, the nation’s
only Shariah-compliant bank, plans to raise 5 billion baht ($154
million) by the fourth quarter to expand lending, President
Dheerasak Suwannayos said in Bangkok on July 2.  
 Economic growth in developing Asia, including Malaysia,
China and Indonesia, will accelerate to 9.2 percent this year
from 6.9 percent in 2009, while Middle Eastern economies may
expand 4.5 percent compared with 2.4 percent, according to
estimates by the International Monetary Fund on July 7.  
 Indonesia hired HSBC Holdings Plc, Standard Chartered Plc
and Citigroup Inc. to manage its second overseas offering of
sukuk in October, a finance ministry official, who asked not to
be identified because discussions are private, said yesterday.  
 Stable Economies  
 “The economy is much more stable in this part of the
world,”  Mohd Farid Kamarudin , who helps manage 1.3 billion
ringgit of Shariah-compliant assets at AmInvestment Management
Sdn., said in an interview from Kuala Lumpur yesterday. “I
definitely would prefer” Asian sukuk and “try to avoid Dubai
for now as the country fundamentally still has some debt
issues,” he said.  
 The extra yield that investors demand to hold Dubai’s
dollar sukuk rather than Malaysia’s has widened 30 basis points
since May 28 to 409 today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from its first sale of
the debt in eight years on May 27 and attracted bids for more
than five times the offer of $1 billion.  
 The average yield on sukuk sold by Gulf borrowers rose 156
basis points to 7.31 percent since its Nov. 18 low, according to
the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index.  The similar
yield on the  HSBC dollar sukuk index , which tracks the overall
performance of Islamic debt, widened 64 basis points in the same
period to 6.10 percent.  
 Dubai Risk  
 Asian sukuk generally performed better than Persian Gulf
issues in the past year after Dubai World, one of the United
Arab Emirates three main state-owned business groups, unveiled
plans to restructure debt in November. Kuwait’s  Investment Dar
Co.  was the first company from the region to default on a $100
million sukuk in April last year.  
 Investors who differentiate Gulf issuers can see that
“Dubai is still having difficulties and the banks have balance-
sheet issues,” compared with those in Abu Dhabi or Qatar,
Bruhin at Clariden Leu said.  
 Nakheel PJSC, a unit of Dubai World that’s seeking more
time to repay $10.5 billion of liabilities, plans to offer
lenders interest of 4 percentage points more than benchmark
rates today, two bankers with knowledge of the plan, who asked
not to be identified because the matter is private, said
yesterday. Dubai World and its seven-biggest lenders will
present its restructuring plan to almost 70 creditors on July 22,
a person familiar with the matter said on July 11.  
 The yield on the Dubai Department of Finance’s 6.396
percent Islamic note maturing in November 2014 has increased 110
basis points to 7.47 percent since it started trading in October,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “We are of the view that there is declining risk of
default in Dubai,” said Mohd Farid. “However, there remains
high possibility of rating downgrades for Dubai issuers
particularly for the financial institutions.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        