-- Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Sued by California Over Energy Improvement Program
-- Bill Callahan
-- 2010-07-15T00:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/fannie-mae-freddie-mac-sued-by-california-over-energy-improvement-program.html

          
          
             California Attorney General  Jerry Brown  sued  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  over claims the companies
thwarted a program that allows property owners to pay for energy
upgrades over time through special tax assessments.  
 The complaint, filed today in federal court in Oakland,
California, is based on the Property Assessed Clean Energy
program. Under the program, local governments pay to make
properties more energy efficient and owners repay the costs
through the special property tax levy, according to the
complaint.  
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  have blocked the program by
improperly characterizing the assessments as loans, and telling
lenders that they won’t fund mortgages on properties that
participate in the program, according to the suit.  
 “Because Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac control the mortgage
resale market, lenders will not issue mortgages that do not meet
Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s requirements,” according to the
complaint. “As a result, Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s
determination -- which misrepresents California law --
essentially forecloses residential Property Assessed Clean
Energy programs.”  
 California Counties  
 Almost one half of California’s counties have developed the
programs or plan to start one, Brown said in an e-mailed
statement. His  lawsuit  seeks to require the companies to
recognize California law and allow the program to proceed.  
 The Federal Housing Administration, Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac have financed more than 90 percent of U.S. home lending
after a retreat by banks and the collapse of the market for
mortgage bonds without government-backed guarantees.  
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac bought $46 billion in first
mortgages and the FHA insured $52.5 billion in home-purchase
loans in the first quarter of 2010, according to an analysis of
mortgage data by Potomac Partners in Washington. Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac also backed $150 billion in mortgage refinancing
during the period.  
 “Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac received enormous federal
bailouts but now they’re throwing up impermeable barriers to
bank lending that creates jobs, stimulates the economy and
boosts clean energy,” Brown, the Democratic candidate for
governor, said today at a news conference in San Diego.  
 Fannie Mae spokeswoman  Janis Smith  and  Stefanie Mullin , a
Freddie Mac spokeswoman, declined to comment.  
 Letters, Liens  
 On May 5, Fannie Mae sent letters to lenders describing the
tax assessments in the Property Assessed Clean Energy, or PACE,
program as “loans” with “senior lien status to a mortgage,”
according to the lawsuit. A Freddie Mac letter on the same date
reminded mortgage sellers and servicers that an “energy-related
lien may not be senior to a mortgage delivered to Freddie Mac,”
Brown said in the complaint.  
 On July 6, according to the suit, the Federal Housing
Finance Agency issued a statement confirming that the Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac lender letters “remain in effect,” according
to the suit. The statement acknowledged that by affirming the
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac letters, the agency stalled
California’s PACE program, according to the suit.  
 “The lender letters and the Federal Housing Finance Agency
statement intentionally mischaracterize California law relating
to the Property Assessed Clean Energy program in order to
support their unfounded contention that participating in PACE is
contrary” to Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s policies, according
to today’s complaint.  
 The case is California v. Federal Housing Finance Agency,
10-03084, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(Oakland).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
 Bill Callahan  in San Diego at 
 callahan@san.rr.com .  
          
          


  


        