-- Fed Officials Saw Rising Risks, Trimmed Growth Forecast
-- Craig Torres
-- 2010-07-14T18:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/fed-officials-saw-no-need-for-further-stimulus-trimmed-growth-forecasts.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve officials saw no
need to boost stimulus to the economy while trimming their
forecasts for growth and noting that risks to the recovery had
increased, minutes of their June meeting showed.  
 “The economic outlook had softened somewhat and a number of
members saw the risks to the outlook as having shifted to the
downside,” minutes released today in Washington said. “The
changes to the outlook were viewed as relatively modest and as
not warranting policy accommodation beyond that already in
place.”  
 Slowing inflation, constrained household spending and
contracting credit prompted  Fed policy makers  last month to
restate a pledge to keep the benchmark lending rate at around
zero for “an extended period,” the Fed’s statement showed.  
 The minutes indicated that U.S. central bankers were
concerned about lingering high  unemployment  and risks that
inflation could decelerate further. If the outlook worsened, the
committee would need to consider whether additional stimulus was
appropriate, the minutes said.  
 Stocks extended declines after the minutes were released,
with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index falling 0.3 percent to
1,091.83 at 2:06 p.m. The yield on the two-year Treasury note
fell six basis points to 0.61 percent.  
 Consumer borrowing fell $9.1 billion in May following a
$14.9 billion decrease in April. Non-government employers added
just 83,000 jobs in June, less than the 110,000 forecast by
economists.  
 Financial Markets  
 Concerns about European government deficits roiled global
financial markets, sending the Standard and Poor’s 500 stock
index 5.4 percent lower last month.  
 “Participants expected the pace of hiring to remain low
for some time,” the minutes said. “The unemployment rate was
generally expected to remain noticeably above its long-run
sustainable level for several years, and participants expressed
concern about the extended duration of unemployment spells for a
large number of workers.”  
 U.S. central bankers lowered their central tendency
forecast for 2010 growth to a range of 3 percent to 3.5 percent
versus 3.2 percent to 3.7 percent in April, the minutes show.
They also trimmed their outlook for inflation this year to a
range of 1.0 percent to 1.1 percent, down from 1.2 percent to
1.5 percent in April.  
 Forecasts for unemployment were little changed, with the
Fed expecting unemployment between 9.2 to 9.5 percent in 2010
versus 9.1 to 9.5 percent in April.  
 Instruments for Exit  
 “Members noted that in addition to continuing to develop
and test instruments to exit from the period of unusually
accommodative monetary policy, the Committee would need to
consider whether further policy stimulus might become
appropriate if the outlook were to worsen appreciably,” the
minutes said.  
 Sales at U.S. retailers fell in June for a second month,
indicating the pace of economic recovery moderated heading into
the second half of 2010. Purchases decreased a more-than-
projected 0.5 percent following a 1.1 percent May drop, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington.  
 While retail demand softened in May, industrial companies
with global reach are posting strong second-quarter profits.  
 “You have some surges, some slower periods,” Richmond
Federal Reserve Bank President  Jeffrey Lacker  told reporters
July 12. “It’s just going to be a choppy recovery.”  
 Quarterly Profits  
 Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer, this week
reported second-quarter profit that topped analysts’ projections
as higher metals prices boosted sales. Intel Corp., the world’s
biggest chipmaker, reported record sales and topped analysts’
estimates with its third-quarter forecast July 13, reducing
concerns that the personal-computer industry’s rebound is losing
steam.  
 “The business sector is generally strong, with fat
profits, lean balance sheets, and improved, if not stellar,
demand,”  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, said before the minutes
were released. “The bridge to a stronger consumer is the hiring
that businesses should be doing but are not because the near
future is too cloudy.”  
 Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  dissented from the decision for the fourth straight
meeting. Hoenig said that while risks to the forecasts remained,
continuing to indicate that rates would remain low “for an
extended period” would “limit the Committee’s flexibility to
begin raising rates modestly in a timely fashion.”  
 Balance Sheet  
 Total assets on the Fed’s balance sheet stand at $2.33
trillion, near a record high of $2.34 trillion reached May 19.
U.S. central bankers, as they have in past meetings, discussed
longer-term strategies for reducing assets held by the Fed.  
 “A majority of participants continued to anticipate that
asset sales would start after the Committee had begun to firm
policy by increasing short-term interest rates,” the minutes
said.  
 The Labor Department’s consumer price index fell 0.2
percent in May after a 0.1 percent drop in April, the first
consecutive decline since 2008. Excluding food and energy, the
core rate rose 0.9 percent in May from a year earlier, matching
the smallest year-over-year gain since 1966.  
 Central bankers in June said their longer-run inflation
goal is 1.7 percent to 2 percent, measured by the personal
consumption expenditures price index. The PCE index rose 1.9
percent for the 12 months ending May.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, speaks at a forum in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Edward McKelvey, senior U.S. economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., discusses U.S. economic conditions and the prospects for the Federal Reserve to deploy additional tools to stimulate the economy.
     McKelvey talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Lakshman Achuthan, managing director of the Economic Cycle Research Institute, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about Federal Reserve monetary policy and the outlook for the U.S. economy. 
     Fed officials, in their minutes released today, saw no need to boost stimulus to the economy while trimming their forecasts for growth and noting that risks to the recovery had increased, minutes of the June Federal Open Market Committee meeting showed. Bloomberg's Michael McKee and Richard Yamarone also speak. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
