-- Feud Over Battle Panorama Ends as Tyrol Heroes Move to Mountain
-- Catherine Hickley
-- 2010-07-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/feud-over-battle-panorama-ends-as-tyrol-heroes-move-to-mountain.html

          
          
             Werner Jud is preparing to wind a
100-meter-long painting of Tyrolean heroes winning a battle
against Napoleon’s troops around two outsize spindles, load it
onto a truck and cart it across Innsbruck.  
 This complex operation is not one that Jud, head of the
government conservation office in the Austrian state of Tyrol,
relishes. In fact he tried to stop it happening at all.  
 His office had imposed a ban on the regional government’s
plan to take the painting out of its purpose-built, rotunda
home. The ban was overturned last year by the federal
government, which gave local politicians permission to relocate
the painting to a new museum under construction on a mountain
outside the city. The move takes place next month.  
 “We are in the thankless position of carrying out a task
we never wanted to undertake,” Jud said. “We were in favor of
keeping the building and the painting together.”  
 Panorama paintings were the predecessors of cinema, a
spectacle that people paid to see. Popular in 19th-century, few
have survived. The rotunda built in 1907 to house the Innsbruck
panorama, a feature of the cityscape that is now closed to the
public, is even more of a historical rarity.  
 Worldwide, only four panoramas, all dating from around
1900, have survived intact in their original rotundas, according
to the European Council for the Village and Small Town.  ECOVAST 
appealed last November to  UNESCO  to prevent the move.  
 Tourist Advert  
 The 1896 panorama, by Michael Zeno Diemer (1867-1939), is
an advertisement for Tyrol produced at a time when the region
was catching up with Switzerland as an Alpine destination for
British tourists. Shown at exhibitions in Innsbruck and London,
it portrays an uprising by Tyrolean troops led by Andreas Hofer
against Napoleon’s army on Aug. 13, 1809. The setting is the
Bergisel, a mountain outside Innsbruck.  
 From the vantage point of a platform in the middle of the
rotunda, the painting creates an almost three-dimensional
effect. Covering 1,000 square meters of canvas, it gives the
viewer the sensation of surveying the battle from its center,
with guns aimed in all directions, including toward him or her.
Gunpowder sparks fly and farmhouses burn.  
 The painting sets out to capture the moment of victory at 5
p.m. that day, when the Tyrolean freedom fighter Josef
Speckbacher crossed a bridge to fend off attacks from the French
and Bavarian troops.  
 It’s a far from realistic portrayal of the battle,
explained Benedikt Erhard, the Tyrol government official
responsible for culture, in a tour of the dilapidated building.  
 Alpine Snow  
 Embellishments show Tyrol in the best possible light. The
snow in the Alps around Innsbruck melts by August, yet in the
painting, the mountains are capped with white. The uniforms worn
by the heroic Tyroleans were invented decades after.  
 Erhard said though he first opposed moving the painting,
though he now believes it will be better conserved in the new
museum. The museum on the Bergisel also incorporates the
existing  Kaiserjaegermuseum .  
 The Tyrol government won a final appeal last year, when
Austrian Culture Minister  Claudia Schmied  gave her permission
for the move. Under the terms of that decision, Tyrol is
committed to keeping the old rotunda. Jud isn’t convinced it
will survive.  
 “It’s difficult to use it for anything else,” Jud said.
“So far there are no good proposals. The roof is weak, and
there was heavy snow this winter. We will fight to keep it, but
as long as it has no purpose, who will renovate it?”  
 ( Catherine Hickley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Hickley  in Innsbruck at  chickley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Restoration work is done on a fragment of an 1896 panorama painting in Innsbruck, Austria. The painting shows a battle victory over Napoleon's troops by Tyrolean rebels and is currently housed in a purpose-built rotunda in Innsbruck. It is being moved to a new museum. Source: ArsArtis AG via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Rotunda Building  
                       
                         
                           Isabelle Brandauer/Tyrol State Museums via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The exterior of the 1907 rotunda building which houses a panorama painting. The painting shows a battle victory over Napoleon's troops by Tyrolean rebels. It is being moved to a new museum amid protests by Tyrol's conservation authorities. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The exterior of the 1907 rotunda building which houses a panorama painting. The painting shows a battle victory over Napoleon's troops by Tyrolean rebels. It is being moved to a new museum amid protests by Tyrol's conservation authorities. Photographer: Isabelle Brandauer/Tyrol State Museums via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The exterior of a new museum on Bergisel mountain in Innsbruck, Austria. The building is the future home of an 1896 panorama painting showing a battle victory over Napoleon's troops by Tyrolean rebels. The painting is currently housed in a purpose-built rotunda in Innsbruck, and Tyrol's conservation authorities opposed its removal. Source: Wagner ZT GmbH via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
