-- Finance Minister Lowers Zimbabwe's 2010 Growth Target in Mid-Term Budget
-- Brian Latham
-- 2010-07-14T15:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/finance-minister-lowers-zimbabwe-s-2010-growth-target-in-mid-term-budget.html

          
          
             Zimbabwe’s Finance Minister  Tendai Biti  cut his forecast for economic growth this year after
foreign donors failed to commit as much money as expected,
according to the mid-term budget review.  
 Gross domestic product will expand about 5.4 percent, Biti
said in his presentation to parliament in the capital, Harare,
today. In the annual budget announced in December 2009, Biti
estimated the economy would grow 7 percent in 2010.  
 The forecast was lowered “due to a number of factors,
mainly the fragility of our economy,” Biti said in a phone
interview from Harare today.  
 Zimbabwe’s Movement for Democratic Change formed a power-
sharing government with President  Robert Mugabe ’s Zimbabwe
African National Union-Patriotic Front in February last year.
With Mugabe still in power, the accord has failed to allay
investor concern, with foreign budgetary support falling below
the $810 million Biti hoped to garner at the start of this year.  
 On coming into office, Biti, a member of the MDC, abandoned
the Zimbabwe dollar and adopted a “multi-currency” economy
that saw inflation plummet from 500 billion percent to
deflation. Since then, inflation accelerated to 6.1 percent in
May, the Harare-based statistics office said last month.  
 Inflation is expected to slow to between 4 percent and 5
percent by year-end, Biti said. Inflation data for June should
be released by the country’s statistics office tomorrow.  
 Zimbabwe wants to mine all alluvial diamonds through a
state-owned company governed by a diamond act, Biti said.  
 “This is the consensus of the government and will help us
meet the budgetary shortfall caused by the lack of donor
support,” he said.  
 In December, Biti vowed to spend only as much as the
southern African nation earned in revenue and from donor support
in an effort to cut growing debt.  
 “Donor countries have been wary of committing to
Zimbabwe’s power-sharing government until it is clear that the
abuse of the fiscus over the last decade has been brought to an
end,” economist  John Robertson  said in a phone interview from
Harare today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Latham  in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        