-- Four Seasons' Taylor Rises to Top of Sharp's Secret Letter
-- Nadja Brandt
-- 2010-07-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/four-seasons-s-taylor-rises-to-top-spot-of-founder-sharp-s-secret-letter.html

          
          
             Katie Taylor , picked to succeed
 Isadore Sharp  as chief executive officer of  Four Seasons Hotels
Inc. , emerged as a contender a decade ago when Sharp added her
name to a secret letter.  
 The sealed document described Sharp’s vision for the Four
Seasons should he die. Only his secretary knew of it and before
every plane trip, Sharp revised the notes as needed, he said in
a June 30 interview at his Toronto office.  
 Known as “Issy,” Sharp founded the company in 1961 with a
125-room Toronto motor hotel and built the luxury chain to
include 82 properties across 35 countries. In Manhattan, $35,000
buys a night in the 57th Street penthouse I.M. Pei’s
architectural firm helped design. Walls are inlaid with mother
of pearl, fabrics woven of platinum and the televisions receive
every channel in the world.  Taylor’s  job is to oversee 50 new
projects within seven years, the biggest growth spurt in Four
Seasons’s history.  
 “My responsibility is that this company can sustain its
greatness past Issy, past me and past the next man or woman at
the helm,” said Taylor, 52, whose appointment was announced
June 25. “That’s all about reinforcing the idea that the hotels
need to stand on their own and have local leadership.”  
 She’s taking the job as luxury hotels are working to emerge
from a recession that hurt expensive chains more than cheaper
competitors. Average daily room rates at high-end U.S. hotels
slipped to $246.14 from $255.15 this year through May, according
to  Smith Travel Research Inc.  in Hendersonville, Tennessee.  
 Facing Competition  
 Taylor will compete with companies including  Marriott
International Inc. , whose President  Arne Sorenson  said in a
November interview that the luxury market will be his fastest-
growing segment.  
 Hongkong & Shanghai Hotels Ltd.  CEO  Clement Kwok  is focused
on opening more hotels under its Peninsula brand in China, just
as Four Seasons plans to do. And  Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide Inc.  expects China to become its second-largest market
in the next couple of years, Chief Executive Officer  Frits van Paasschen  has said.  
 Sharp, the 78-year-old son of Polish immigrants, will
remain Four Seasons chairman and retain his 5 percent stake in
the company. The remaining 95 percent will continue to be held
evenly between  Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal  and  Bill Gates ’s
personal holding company, Cascade Investment LLC. Both were
investors who helped take Four Seasons private in 2007 in a
$3.37 billion sale.  
 “I have a financial investment in this company, so I
needed to make sure that this transition is the right one,”
Sharp said. “I got all my eggs in one basket, and now I am
giving the basket to somebody else.”  
 Impressing Sharp  
 Taylor impressed Sharp each time she addressed the
company’s board of directors and often people in attendance
approached him to praise her.  
 “It’s that endorsement of how other people responded to
her that was the affirmation I was looking for,” Sharp said.
“She knows how to communicate well. She can talk about
unpleasant things without being unpleasant.”  
 Taylor started her career at the Toronto-based law offices
of Goodman & Goodman. There she met  David Mongeau , who left the
firm for Four Seasons and offered Taylor the post of corporate
counsel to the chain in 1989.  
 She became the first woman to join the company’s executive
management team and said she thought she’d stay two years.  
 “A guy I knew offered me a job and a pay raise,” Taylor
said. “If David had stayed, I would have gone to another
company very shortly.”  
 ‘Seminal Moment’  
 Mongeau didn’t stay and Taylor took his position as senior
vice president in 1993. She calls it her “seminal moment”
professionally.  
 “Katie has a real practical business sense,” Mongeau said
in a telephone interview from London, where he is chairman and
founder of the investment banking firm  Avington  Financial Ltd.
“A lot of people who come from a professional background can
often be too theoretical.”  
 The new CEO said she plans to hire “the best and the
brightest” staff while minimizing layers of supervision. Both
corporate executives and hotel general managers can expect the
company to invest more in developing leaders. She points to
 Hewlett-Packard Co.  and  Hilton Worldwide  as companies that
succeeded beyond the departure of their founders.  
 Taylor faces the additional challenge of fallout from a
worldwide recession that curbed travel. The average daily rate
among hotel chains with the costliest rooms fell 16 percent to
$242.99 in 2009 from a year earlier, according to Smith Travel.  
 Heading for Rebound?  
 Occupancy is beginning to rebound, climbing to 65 percent
at high-end U.S. hotels through the end of May from 59 percent a
year earlier, Smith Travel Research said.  
 Four Seasons countered by cutting expenses in the past 20
months. Job sharing became common to avoid layoffs, Taylor said
in an e-mail. Renegotiating supplier contracts and deferring
some technology investments also helped the company curtail
expenses without diminishing the experience of guests.  
 “Many of these measures have been temporary,” Taylor
wrote.  
 “The challenge ahead for all top-tier brands is not
business as usual, but how to excel in an era where the array of
high-quality service hotels and resorts has expanded,” said
 Lewis Wolff , whose  Maritz, Wolff & Co . owns the Four Seasons
hotel in Houston.  
 “Katie’s elevation comes at the right time for her and
Four Seasons,” he said.  
 Planning Expansion  
 A new 259-room Four Seasons, which will feature an
additional 204 private residences, is under construction in
Toronto and scheduled to open in 2012. It will replace the
current hotel.  
 Much of the company’s coming expansion will be in China,
where it’s looking to increase its three locations to 14 in the
next few years.  
 China is the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  
 “In China, at the high end of lodging, there is a lot of
competition,” said  William Marks , San Francisco-based senior
analyst at JMP Securities LLC.  
 “One challenge is to make sure all development partners
are on board to invest the money to keep the Four Seasons
standards,” he said. “High costs can get in the way of
profits.”  
 Taylor’s life travelling the globe as much as half the year
contrasts with her middle-class upbringing. The first plane she
boarded was for a family vacation to Fort Lauderdale, Florida,
when she was a 20-year-old university student.  
 Early Life  
 She studied political science and economics at the
University of Toronto, then added a joint master’s in business
administration and law from York University in Toronto.  
 Childhood summers were spent at her parents’ small cottage
at Balm Beach, Ontario, about two hours north of Toronto, where
she and her four siblings swam, bicycled and sailed.  
 “We’d live up there barefoot, in bathing suits and shorts
for the summer,” Taylor said, lounging on her office couch in a
white  Escada  pant suit, black Chanel necklace,  Hermes  belt and
Varda shoes.  
 Taylor still enjoys the outdoors, skiing and biking with
her husband Neil Harris, a lawyer; their teenage son and
daughter and Harris’s 38-year-old daughter from his first
marriage.  
 A turning point in Taylor’s life came early, when her 17-
year-old brother Chris died of cancer. Taylor was 26 and said
the experience eventually helped her put business into
perspective.  
 Big Picture  
 “It’s maybe a bit too simplistic, but after that I often
would ask myself, ‘Is somebody going to die?’” Taylor said.
“And if the answer was no, there was no reason to go crazy.”  
 Taylor’s approach is also reflected in her management
style.  
 “Katie is direct,” said Michele Sweeting, senior vice
president of capital planning and procurement for Four Seasons.
“You know exactly what she wants.”  
 Taylor will be the only female CEO among at least the
world’s top 10 hotel operators by revenue, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Flower bouquets grace her office, many
sent by women to congratulate her.  
 Women represent 54 percent of senior management at Four
Seasons, the company said in an e-mail.  
 While Taylor never experienced much resistance from her
male colleagues or business partners, she said she knows her
position is symbolically important.  
 “There aren’t enough hospitality organizations run by
women at this point,” said Betty Spence, president of New York-
based  National Association for Female Executives , an
organization for women with 20,000 members. “Executive
positions are the last bastion women need to break into.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nadja Brandt  in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Kathleen Taylor of Four Seasons Hotels Ltd.  
                       
                         
                           
                         
                         Kathleen Taylor, incoming chief executive officer of Four Seasons Hotels Ltd. Photographer Norm Betts/Bloomberg 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Kathleen Taylor, incoming chief executive officer of Four Seasons Hotels Ltd. Photographer Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
