-- Gillard Government Expects Surplus of $2.7 Billion in 2012-13 (Text)
-- Editor: [bn:PRSN=1] Iain Wilson []
-- 2010-07-14T03:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/gillard-government-expects-surplus-of-2-7-billion-in-2012-13-text-.html

          
          
             The following is the text of a
 statement  by Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan  and Finance
Minister  Lindsay Tanner  on the outlook for the nation’s economy.
The government today forecast a A$3.1 billion ($2.7 billion)
budget surplus in 2012-13:  
 The Economic Statement released today shows the Australian
economy continues to lead the developed world, with a strong
employment outlook and the Budget on track to return to surplus
in three years, three years early and comfortably ahead of any
major advanced economy.  
 The Economic Statement also shows a modest improvement in
the surplus expected to be reached in three years time, as well
as dramatically lower debt than any major advanced economy.  
 These strong results come despite increased uncertainty
around the global economic outlook arising from sovereign debt
issues in Europe in particular and an uneven global economic
recovery.  
 Responsible economic management during the global financial
crisis meant Australia was almost alone among advanced economies
in avoiding recession, leaving our economy in a strong position
to withstand any intensification in global stresses.  
 Real GDP is expected to grow solidly by 3 per cent in 2010
11 and 3¾ per cent in 2011-12, slightly lower than anticipated
at Budget, although still stronger than advanced economies as a
whole. Nominal GDP is expected to be slightly stronger in 2010-
11 than forecast at Budget, reflecting higher prices for key
commodity exports and a higher terms of trade.  
 Australia’s labour market has continued to outperform other
developed economies, with a remarkable 353,000 jobs added in the
past year and strong employment growth expected to continue.
Australia’s unemployment rate, which is already lower than any
of the major advanced economies, is still expected to fall
further to 4¾ per cent in late 2011-12.  
 The Government is still projecting a return to Budget
surplus in 2012-13 -- ahead of any of the major advanced
economies. This represents the fastest fiscal consolidation in
Australia since at least the 1960s and puts Australia at the
forefront of global fiscal consolidation efforts.  
 The Government remains committed to maintaining strict
budget discipline, including restricting real spending growth to
2 percent a year on average until the surplus has reached 1
percent of GDP. Australian Government net debt is expected to
peak slightly lower than anticipated at Budget at 6 per cent of
GDP in 2011-12, and fall to 5.3 percent of GDP by the end of the
forward estimates. In comparison, the collective net debt of the
major advanced economies is expected to reach 94.2 per cent of
GDP in 2015.  
 This Economic Statement provides further details of the
breakthrough agreement on resource taxation reached by the Prime
Minister, which will apply from 1 July 2012. The new resource
tax arrangements will provide $10.5 billion which will fund an
historic boost to superannuation, further investment in world-
class infrastructure, business tax cuts including a $5000
upfront tax break per item for small businesses and personal tax
simplification.  
 These major economic reforms will broaden and strengthen
our whole economy, boost our pool of national savings and help
our country take full advantage of the opportunities presented
by strong growth in our region.  
 While our national economy is strong and our country has
done well to fight off the global recession, we understand that
many Australians still face financial pressures. That’s why the
Government has been determined to deliver cost-of-living relief
wherever possible, including through our third round of tax cuts
starting from 1 July this year, as well as improvements to the
Child Care Tax Rebate, the Education Tax Refund and an historic
boost to the age pension. The Government will continue to
strengthen our economy so we can return to surplus three years
early, keep Australians in work and move our country forward
with confidence.  
 For Related News and Information:
Australian economy stories: NI AUECO BN <GO>
Top economic stories: TOP ECO <GO>
Graph of benchmark rate: RBATCTR <Index> GP M ROLL <GO>
  
          
          


  


        