-- Gillard Shows Cleaning Government Isn't Only Men's Work as PM
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-07-14T05:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/gillard-shows-cleaning-government-isn-t-only-men-s-work-as-first-female-pm.html

          
          
             Julia Gillard  saw herself as equal
to men years before becoming the first woman to lead Australia.
As a teenager she forced her high school to abandon the practice
of putting more girls than boys at work cleaning the school and
demanded the job be shared equitably.  
 “It was biased toward the boys, she saw the principal
about it and it was later changed to be more equal,” her father,
John Gillard, recalled in a telephone interview.  
 Gillard’s rise to prime minister June 24 marks a move
toward greater gender equality in Australia, a country of manly
men whose most popular leader,  Bob Hawke , won a Guinness Book of
World Records award in 1954 for drinking a so-called yard of
beer (2.5 pints) in 11 seconds. The ruling Labor Party is
betting that her working-class roots and ability to compel
change will make her the country’s first female leader to be
voted in when elections are held later this year.  
 “This is a cultural shift in Australia, where a female can
win over the hard men of the Labor Party,” said Andrew Hughes,
who specializes in political marketing at Canberra-based
Australian National University. At a book launch July 13, former
Labor Prime Minister Hawke embraced Gillard and told her,
“anything you want me to do, I’ll be there with bells on.”  
 That Gillard, 48, would be the first woman to gain national
political backing comes as no surprise to those who have known
her since childhood. The high school incident was an early
indication of her tenacity and willingness to take on difficult
issues. She won her job after defeating her one-time political
partner,  Kevin Rudd , in a leadership challenge after he shelved
climate-change laws and proposed a mining tax that saw party
support plummet to an election-losing level.  
 The earliest a vote could be held is Aug. 7, according to
the  Australian Electoral Commission .  
 Dodged Egg  
 She has her detractors. She dodged an egg thrown at her
during a July 9 visit to Perth, a mining stronghold, and East
Timor has rejected her plan to house a refugee center there for
asylum seekers. A July 12 Nielsen opinion survey showed the
Labor Party’s support fell three percentage points to 52 percent
since she took office. The opposition Liberal-National
coalition’s popularity rose three percentage points to 48.  
 “The fall in opinion is a bit of the gloss coming off
Gillard as a leader,” said Rick Kuhn, a political scientist at
Australian National University.  
 Gillard’s political philosophy is pure  Labor . She has
pushed change in the country’s health care and education systems
and has backed union efforts to increase their power with
employers.  
 Great Debater  
 “She’s part of the Labor culture and understands it,”
said her biographer Jacqueline Kent. “It’s her tribe, having
been involved in Labor politics since her student days. I reckon
she’ll be a very good prime minister, she has a first rate
political mind, she is calm and logical and accepts
responsibility for her decisions.”  
 Born in the Welsh town of Barry, where her father worked as
a policeman, Gillard suffered from bronchial pneumonia as a
child. The family emigrated to Australia when she was four and
her sister Alison seven on the advice of doctors who urged them
to move to a warmer climate.  
 She grew up in a two-bedroom house in suburban Adelaide and
attended the local primary and high schools, her father said.
She was a great debater, leading her team to record wins,
according to her high school principal  Susan Cameron . “Learning
was a labor of love for Julia,” she said.  
 Gillard enrolled at the University of Adelaide in 1979 and
was active in the Australian Union of Students, a body which
advocated for student rights, then transferred to Melbourne
University in 1982.  
 ‘Extremely Persuasive’  
 “She was funny and quick witted and argued with a great
deal of persuasion,” said Ken McAlpine, a fellow politics
student in Adelaide. “I remember her speaking at rallies and
she was extremely persuasive -- that is why she went so far.”
She became president of the student body in 1983.  
 After graduating in 1987 with a law degree, she joined the
office of Slater &  Gordon  in Melbourne, formed in 1935 to
represent labor unions and their members. She became partner in
1990, according to her biography on the Australian parliament’s
website. The firm has a room named after her in its Melbourne
office.  
 All along she had her eye on entering politics. It took her
four tries to gain a Labor Party endorsement. She got it in 1998
and won the suburban Melbourne seat of  Lalor . Her constituency
includes working-class suburbs as well as small farms and
ranches.  
 First Speech  
 In her first speech before parliament that year she said
she stood for “ordinary Australians, those who have neither
wealth or power.”  
 As the Labor Party’s spokeswoman on health issues from 2003
to 2006, she often sparred with her opponent in the upcoming
election,  Tony Abbott , 52, who leads the opposition coalition.  
 In one exchange, she referred to Abbott as a “sniveling
grub.” Asked to apologize, she was suspended for 24-hours for
responding: “If I have offended grubs, I withdraw
unconditionally.” The next day she was thrown out again for
calling Abbott an “idiot.”  
 She’s used to battling stereotypes. In a May 2006 interview
with the Sydney Morning Herald, Senator  Bill Heffernan , who like
Abbott is a member of the Liberal party, said he preferred Rudd
to the childless Gillard and called her unfit to lead because
she is “deliberately barren.”  
 ‘Bucket of Nappies’  
 People such as Gillard have “no idea what life’s about,”
Heffernan told the newspaper. “The most difficult job in the
world is the priesthood and the most important job in the world
is parenthood. Rudd’s got three kids. He knows what having a
bucket of  nappies  is all about.”  
 Heffernan, Gillard said in a subsequent radio interview, is
“a man in the past, with very old-fashioned values.” Her male
partner, Tim Mathieson, was a hair stylist when they met and he
now works with Ubertas Property in Melbourne as a real estate
agent. He congratulated Gillard with a hug and a kiss as she was
sworn in at Government House on June 24.  
 Gillard has already succeeded where Rudd had failed. On
July 2 she scaled back a proposed 40 percent tax on mining
companies’ profits and won their backing, undermining what had
become a rallying cry for Abbott. Rudd’s plan had prompted
companies such as  BHP  Billiton Ltd. and  Rio  Tinto Group to run
ads charging the policy would hinder the economy.  
 As Rudd’s deputy, she was responsible for the education
component of the government’s 2009 A$42 billion ($37.1 billion)
economic stimulus package and critics say she squandered the
money, paying up to 10 times more for libraries, halls and
classrooms than what a standard construction firm would charge.  
 Squandered Money  
 A report published in April by the Public Schools
Principals Forum, an independent group based in Sydney, said
that 112 of 220 government primary schools surveyed said they
“definitely weren’t getting value for their money.” Another 57
schools were “unsure” whether they had.  
 Gillard has defended her record and set up a taskforce led
by former UBS Australia Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Brad Orgill  to examine claims of waste. The taskforce’s report
is due to go to the government after Aug. 3, said a spokesman
who declined to be named.  
 She has also announced a new policy on asylum seekers,
saying July 6 that she has discussed setting up a regional
processing center with officials in New Zealand, East Timor and
Indonesia. East Timor rejected the plan. Gillard said during a
July 13 press conference she would work to build consensus on
climate change and put a price on carbon after the Kyoto
Protocol expires at the end of 2012.  
 ‘Good Government’  
 Gillard defeated Rudd after members of the Labor Party’s
more conservative faction gave her their support and the
country’s unions extended their traditional Rudd backing to her.
Under Rudd’s leadership “a good government had lost its way,”
she said.  
 “What drives me in politics is my passionate belief about
delivering change in this nation,” Gillard told reporters in
Canberra after taking office. “Change in education because
education made me, change in our health care system, making sure
people have got the benefits of dignity and work.”  
 Her political hero is Aneurin “Nye” Bevan, the son of a
Welsh coal miner, who served as a U.K. Cabinet minister for the
Labour Party after World War II. He was a member of parliament
from 1929 and backed measures that benefited the working class,
including the establishment of the National Health Service, with
the government taking responsibility for medical services and
offering free diagnosis and treatment.  
 Challenging Unions  
 Her working-class roots have not prevented her from taking
on the unions when she believes they are wrong. “She’s tough,”
said  Tony Maher , president of the Sydney division of the
Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union. “She came to
the triennial congress of the unions in Australia in the middle
of last year and stared us down over building industry laws. She
didn’t back off.”  
 The dispute centered on union calls to do away with the
Australian Building and Construction  Commission , which has the
power to jail workers found to violate codes, on grounds that it
discriminates against laborers. With union members chanting
“shame” during her speech, the Age newspaper reported at the
time, Gillard explained that pressure and lobbying efforts
wouldn’t force the federal government to change laws.  
 Gillard has broad appeal in a culture that can seem male-
dominated, said Kathleen Swinbourne, coordinator of the
Australian Womens Electoral Lobby. “Her appeal is remarkably
broad -- she’ll win an election hands down,” Swinbourne said.  
 Western Bulldogs  
 Before becoming prime minister, Gillard had joked that she
had a better chance of playing for the Western  Bulldogs , the
male Australian Football League team she supports. The day she
won office she received a text message from Bulldogs’ player
 Jason Akermanis  asking if she would join the team. AFL, a
working-class game and the country’s most popular sport,
combines elements of rugby and soccer.  
 “I’m aware I’m the first woman to sit in this role but I
didn’t set out to crash my head against any glass ceilings,”
Gillard said on June 24. “I set out to keep my feet on the
floor and be there walking the streets, talking to Australians
about what’s the right thing to do for this nation.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net ;
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Australia's prime minister Julia Gillard pauses during the launch of the book, "Hawke: The Prime Minister," by Blanche d'Alpuget, in Sydney Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
