-- Ginnie Mae Mortgage Bond Dealers Violated Guidelines, Trade Group Says
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-07-14T21:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/ginnie-mae-mortgage-bond-dealers-violated-tba-contract-rules-group-says.html

          
          
             The  Securities   Industry and
Financial Markets Association  said certain dealers of Ginnie Mae
mortgage bonds failed to conform to the trade group’s
guidelines, amid concern that some dealers may have been
recently using inappropriate tactics to profit in the market.  
 While some trades will be allowed to stand because “market
participants were unaware” of the rules, no exceptions to
deliverability guidelines are being made for other types of
errors, Sifma said today in an e-mailed  statement .  
 Investors and traders are upset that some dealers have in
 recent months  filled so-called Ginnie Mae Platinum securities,
which are created from pools of other Ginnie Mae bonds, with
inappropriate debt, hurting buyers, said  Andrew Kowalczyk , chief
executive officer at broker AK Capital LLC in New York.  
 “They pulled a fast one on the market and someone got wind
of it,” Kowalczyk said today in a telephone interview,
referring to a specific type of misstep. “It wasn’t a mistake.
It’s bad behavior. It’s bad for customers, it’s bad for
everyone.”  
 The types of inappropriate debt placed in the Platinum
securities may have included notes backed by larger loans or by
delinquent mortgages refinanced into  Federal Housing
Administration  loans under a special program created in 2007,
bonds that are ineligible to fill so-called To Be Announced
sales contracts.  
 ‘Looked’ Eligible  
 While Platinum bonds containing those  securities  and
certain other types “looked like they were TBA eligible” and
then sometimes used for TBA trades, they actually aren’t under
Sifma rules, Ginnie Mae President  Ted Tozer  said today in a
telephone interview.  
 He said his Washington-based federal agency is changing
policies for how its Platinum securities are created to also
address related issues. Sifma, the New York-based trade group,
sets standards for  trading  in certain parts of the mortgage-bond
market.  
 One “dealer in question is talking about how it was a
mistake” and wasn’t done intentionally, Tozer said. “We’re
trying to put in place edits that make sure it doesn’t happen
again.”  
 Ginnie Mae’s jumbo-mortgage bonds sometimes fetch more than
one cent on the dollar less than TBA-eligible debt, according to
AK Capital. With TBA trades, offers to buy or sell securities
can be filled with debt with a range of characteristics.  
 Other types of inappropriate debt that has made its way
into the securities include bonds created out of loans older
than two years and so-called custom pools, Tozer said.  
 ‘Depositors’ for Debt  
 Morgan Stanley  and Pershing LLC, a unit of Bank of New York
Mellon Corp., were “depositors” for some securities at issue
created in the past two months, according to data on Ginnie
Mae’s  website . There’s nothing wrong with dealers trading such
bonds outside the TBA market, Tozer said.  
 Dealers are said to be agreeing to unwind inappropriate
 trades , according to Kowalczyk. He said they should be named and
fined in cases where they used platinums to package jumbo-
mortgage-bonds and other less valuable debt.  
 Mark Lake , a spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley,
declined to immediately comment.  Barbara Gallo , a spokeswoman
for Jersey City, New Jersey-based Pershing, didn’t return a
phone call seeking comment.  
 Ginnie Mae plans to have  Bank of New York , also its
transfer agent for the securities, start to screen bonds going
into Platinum securities for inappropriate debt, alert dealers
creating the bonds to the findings, and append new suffixes to
the identifiers of Platinum debt containing the debt that will
make them ineligible for TBA trading, Tozer said.  
 ‘Minor’ Issue  
 The errors that Sifma announced, which have been occurring
for a number of years, are generally considered a “minor”
issue, he said. For instance, it isn’t completely clear why
bonds created out of loans more than two years old are
ineligible, a standard dating back to 1990, Tozer said.  
 Sifma said today that the industry would allow existing
Platinum bonds with older loans to be used to settle TBA trades,
and be included in new Platinum bonds eligible to fill the
contracts, assuming no other violations of its standards.  
 “No exceptions” to its typical guidelines are being made
for Platinum bonds that mix pools filled with debt from multiple
issuers and the “custom” pools, the group said.  
 Because they prepay at different speeds than typical debt,
affecting investor  returns , Sifma has excluded from the TBA
market any bonds filled more than 10 percent with mortgages with
larger balances than allowed under the FHA’s $417,000 limit for
most of the country, as well as those filled with once-
delinquent  FHA Secure  loans.  
 It wouldn’t be surprising if Pershing, which provides
clearing and other services to financial companies, created its
Platinum bonds for other brokers or investors, rather than
itself, because of its business focus, Tozer said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        