-- Glaxo, Airlines, Playboy, Foxconn, IKB, BT, LVMH, Drill Ban in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-07-14T10:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/glaxo-airlines-playboy-foxconn-ikb-bt-lvmh-drill-ban-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Charles Schwab Corp.  sued units of
 Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch & Co.,  UBS AG  and Bear
Stearns Cos. over claims they lied or omitted information about
mortgage-backed securities Schwab bought from them.  
 Schwab, an independent online broker, claims it paid the
firms $130 million for three securities, and that more dubious
securities are likely to turn up if the suit is allowed to go
forward. The complaint was filed June 29 in state court in San
Francisco, where Schwab is based.  
 The securities dealers lied or didn’t disclose information
about loans underlying the bonds they sold, including the loan-
to-value ratios of mortgages and the number of properties that
were not primary residences, according to the complaint.  
 Bill Halldin, a Bank of America spokesman, said the
securities Merrill Lynch issued that are identified in the suit
are “performing well, are not in default, and therefore we
don’t believe there’s any basis for the complaint.” Merrill
Lynch is the world’s largest brokerage.  
 JPMorgan Chase declined to comment, spokesman Joe
Evangelisti said in an e-mail.  
 UBS spokeswoman Karina Byrne didn’t return a call seeking
comment after regular business hours.  
 Wells Fargo & Co.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , which acquired
Bear Stearns in 2008, are also named in the complaint.  
 The case is Charles Schwab v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner
& Smith, 10-501151, California Superior Court (San Francisco).  
 Pfizer Board Liable for Marketing Miscues, Suit Says  
 Pfizer Inc.  directors should be held liable for the
drugmaker’s repeated violations of federal laws governing drug-
marketing practices that resulted in the company having to pay a
$2.3 billion settlement, a union pension fund said in a lawsuit.  
 New York-based Pfizer’s board turned a blind eye to
criminal guilty pleas the company entered over marketing
practices for medicines such its Bextra pain-killing drug and
its Neurontin epilepsy pill, the Bricklayers Local 8 & Plasters
Local 233 Pension Fund, a Pfizer shareholder, said in the suit.
Directors’ inaction has hurt the value of investors’ stakes in
the company, the fund’s lawyers contend.  
 “The board and senior management made a calculated bet
that the negative consequences of getting caught would never
become significant,” the fund’s attorneys said yesterday in the
Delaware Chancery Court complaint. “Defendants lost that bet.”  
 The $2.3 billion settlement to resolve government probes
into Pfizer’s marketing practices was the largest accord in
history to address such sales techniques. Proceeds from the
accord went to government health agencies including Medicare,
Medicaid and the military’s Tricare health plan.  
 Chris Loder, a Pfizer spokesman, didn’t return calls and
an e-mail for comment on the suit.  
 The case is Bricklayers Local v. Ausiello and Pfizer Inc.,
CA5631, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 NYC Investment Officer Sues Firm He Founded for $10 Million  
 New York City chief investment officer Lawrence Schloss is
suing the private equity firm he founded for at least $10
million in back pay and investment proceeds.  
 Schloss, appointed in January by New York City Comptroller
John Liu to oversee about $100 billion of city  pension funds ,
sued Diamond Castle Holdings LLC, according to a filing
yesterday with the State Supreme Court in Manhattan. He alleged
the firm and four of its senior managing directors breached the
company’s limited liability agreement.  
 Schloss, 55, founded Diamond Castle in 2004. Before that,
he was head of CSFB Private Equity, a  Credit Suisse Group AG 
unit that had $32 billion in assets at the time. He was also
chairman of DLJ Merchant Banking Partners before it was acquired
by CSFB.  
 “We tried to reach a resolution that was fair to Mr.
Schloss and consistent with our obligations to our investors,”
a statement from Maureen Connelly, a  Diamond Castle Holdings 
spokeswoman, said. Schloss’s demands “are inappropriate and
unreasonable,” the statement said.  
 The case is Lawrence M.v.D. Schloss v. Diamond Castle
Holdings LLC, Docket No. 650908/2010, New York Supreme Court.  
 Hefner, Playboy Sued Over Bid to Take Company Private  
 Playboy Enterprises Inc . and founder Hugh Hefner were sued
by shareholders over a proposal to take the media company
private.  
 Directors of Playboy, based in Chicago, have a duty to get
the best price for shareholders, investor Charles Germershausen
contends in a complaint filed yesterday in Delaware Chancery
Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  
 “The Going Private Plan is the product of a flawed process
designed to sell PEI to Hefner and Rizvi Traverse on terms
detrimental” to stockholders of PEI, the lawyer representing
Germershausen said in the complaint.  
 The case is Germershausen v. Hefner, 5632, Court of
Chancery, State of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Glaxo Said to Pay $460 Million to End Avandia Drug Suits  
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc  agreed to pay about $460 million to
resolve a majority of lawsuits alleging the company’s Avandia
diabetes drug can cause heart attacks and strokes, people
familiar with the accords said.  
 Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest  drugmaker , agreed to settle about
10,000 suits for an average of at least $46,000 apiece, the
people said. The company had been facing more than 13,000 suits
alleging Glaxo hid the drug’s heart-attack risk, according to a
UBS AG analyst. The settlements come as Glaxo is set to face its
first Avandia trial in federal court in  Philadelphia  in October.  
 “This is exceptionally good news given the market has
discounted $6 billion liability,” for Avandia litigation, Gbola
Amusa, an analyst at UBS in London, said in an interview. “We
had outlined an absolute worst-case scenario where $500,000 per
case would have to be paid.”  
 Glaxo, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, is settling Avandia
claims as a U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  advisory panel was
meeting yesterday to consider whether Avandia’s ability to
control blood-sugar levels outweighs a possible increase in
heart attacks, strokes and deaths from cardiovascular disease.
Mary Anne Rhyne, a spokeswoman for Glaxo, declined to comment.  
 The case is In Re Avandia Marketing, Sales Practices and
Products Liability Litigation, 07-01871, U.S. District Court for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  
 For more, click here.  
 Airline Challenge to Congestion Pricing Is Rejected  
 A U.S. appeals court rejected airlines’ challenge to a
regulation letting airport operators charge more at busy times
of the day to reduce delays.  
 The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
denied the petition brought by the  Air Transport Association ,
the carriers’ Washington trade group, which represents companies
including  Delta Air Lines Inc . and  AMR Corp ., which owns
American Airlines. The carriers said the regulation was
discriminatory and unreasonable.  
 The “creativity” of regulators should be welcomed to
alleviate flight congestion, the appeals court wrote. The higher
fees were allowed under a  U.S. Transportation Department 
regulation made final in 2008.  
 “It is entirely reasonable to expect an airline, and in
turn its passengers, to pay a premium for the opportunity to
arrive at a peak time,” the court wrote.  
 The case is Air Transport Association of America Inc. v.
U.S. Department of Transportation, 08-1293, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia (Washington).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 Foxconn Asks Hong Kong Court to Strike Out BYD Claims  
 Foxconn International Holdings Ltd.  urged a Hong Kong judge
to throw out claims made by  BYD Co.  in a countersuit that
accuses Foxconn of gathering false evidence.  
 The claims should be struck because BYD failed to provide
any “material” facts or allegations to back its case filed
Oct. 2, 2009, Winston Poon, Foxconn’s lawyer, said at a hearing
yesterday in the Court of First Instance in Hong Kong.  
 “Not only are the matters immaterial, they are also
vexatious,” Poon said. “They will waste the court’s time and
money.” Judge Louis Chan didn’t specify at the end of the
hearing when he would rule on Foxconn’s request.  
 BYD, backed by billionaire Warren Buffett, countersued
after two Foxconn units filed a suit in 2007 that claimed BYD
recruited Foxconn employees and stole the companies’ trade
secrets. BYD, China’s largest maker of rechargeable batteries,
doubled its revenue from its handset business in 2005, 2006 and
2007 as a result, Foxconn said in court documents.  
 In its countersuit, BYD accuses its rival of unlawful
interference with its business, defamation and conspiracy to
injure. Foxconn was involved in planting documents and coercing
a former employee to confess he had stolen secrets, according to
BYD’s filings.  
 Foxconn, the world’s largest contract-manufacturer of
mobile phones, faces competition from BYD for orders of handset
components from customers including  Nokia Oyj .  
 The case is HCA2114/2007, BYD Co. and Shenzhen Futaihong
Precision Industry Co. in the Hong Kong Court of First Instance.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Bayer Contaminated U.S. Rice Crop, Lawyer Tells Jury  
 A  Bayer AG  unit carelessly contaminated U.S. long-grain
rice fields with its genetically engineered seed, causing a dive
in exports to Europe, a lawyer for a Louisiana grower told
jurors at the end of a trial.  
 The rice growers’ “reputation for producing a pure product
was destroyed, with the export market lost,” attorney Don
Downing told the federal court jury yesterday in St. Louis. “It
was Bayer’s carelessness, and Danny Deshotels was hurt,” said
Downing, who represents the Deshotels family and its rice-
growing business.  
 The trial is the fifth against the German company and its
Bayer CropScience unit over rice crop contamination in the
southern U.S. Bayer has lost four trials so far, two in state
court and two in federal, for a total of more than $52 million
in jury awards.  
 Farmers in five states claim the company and Bayer
CropScience negligently contaminated the U.S. long-grain rice
crop with its genetically modified LibertyLink seed, leading to
export restrictions, bans on two kinds of high-yield seeds and a
plunge in prices.  
 “You have not heard of any negligence by Bayer,” Mark
Ferguson, the company’s trial attorney, said yesterday. “It was
Bayer’s rice, it was released and other rice was contaminated.
The question is, did Bayer act reasonably?” he said.  
 The case is In Re Genetically Modified Rice Litigation, 06-
md-1811, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Missouri (St.
Louis).  
 For more, click here.  
 Ex-IKB CEO Ortseifen Must Be Acquitted, Lawyer Says  
 Former  IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG  chief executive
officer Stefan Ortseifen should be acquitted of charges he
manipulated the lender’s share price in 2007 at the beginning of
the subprime-mortgage crisis, his lawyer said.  
 Ortseifen didn’t misstate IKB’s risks regarding asset-
backed securities tied to the U.S. mortgage market in the press
release his trial centers on, lawyer Rainer Hamm told the
Dusseldorf Regional Court in closing arguments yesterday. IKB’s
troubles only started later and Ortseifen couldn’t have
predicted that, his lawyer said.  
 “The mistake is to infer from our knowledge today what Mr.
Orseifen should have known in July 2007,” said Hamm. “Must a
bank executive be smarter than the chiefs of ratings agencies
who tell us only now that they didn’t know at the time that they
got these products totally wrong?”  
 Ortseifen is the first German bank executive to be charged
over the financial crisis and is facing claims he misled
investors by downplaying effect of the looming U.S. subprime
crisis in a press release on July 20, 2007. IKB received a
bailout package 10 days later and subsequently got as much as 12
billion euros ($15.1 billion) in guarantees from Germany’s bank-
rescue fund.  
 Prosecutor Nils Bussee said July 7 that Ortseifen should
receive a 10-month suspended prison term and pay an “adequate”
penalty. The court is scheduled to issue a verdict today.  
 The case is LG Dusseldorf, 14 KLs 6/09.  
 BT Pension Trustees Seek U.K. Court Ruling on Deficit Liability  
 The trustees for BT Group Plc’s employee pension plan, the
U.K.’s largest, asked a court to rule on how much of the fund
and its 9 billion-pound ($13.6 billion) deficit will be assumed
by the government if the company collapsed.  
 The government guaranteed the plan when the company was
privatized in 1984, Alan Steinfeld, a lawyer for the pension
plan told a London judge yesterday. The plan, which has 344,000
members, has assets of 31.3 billion pounds against liabilities
of 40.4 billion pounds, Steinfeld said.  
 While BT is committed to 525 million pounds a year in
deficit repair payments, a court ruling on the so-called Crown
Guarantee may allow the pension trustees to reduce BT’s
contributions when the next valuation of the fund takes place in
December 2011, Fitch Ratings said in a note before the hearing.  
 BT, the U.K.’s biggest fixed-line phone company, said in an
e-mailed statement that the case was “purely technical and
legal” and “any comments about the impact of the court ruling
on future payments is pure speculation.”  
 The case is TLC 637/09 BT Pension Scheme Trustees v.
British Telecommunications PLC & ors.  
 For more, click here.  
 LVMH Says Court to Examine Google Keyword-Use in Adverts Fight  
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA  said a French appeal
court will examine  Google Inc. ’s possible liability in a dispute
over sales of trademarked terms as keywords that link searches
to advertisements.  
 The Cour de Cassation, France’s highest court, has asked
the Paris appeals court to look at potential “wrongdoings” by
Google “to the detriment of Louis Vuitton,” Paris-based LVMH
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  
 The European Union’s  highest court  on March 23 ruled that
while Google, owner of the world’s most-used search engine,
doesn’t breach companies’ trademark rights by selling keywords,
it may be  liable  for trademark breaches in adverts if it knew
of, or had control over, ad data. The top French court had in
2008 sought the EU tribunal’s guidance in the case.  
 Google’s storage of ad content on its systems may make it
liable for trademark breaches if national judges find it plays
an “active role” in creating the promotions, the EU court
said.  
 The Cour de Cassation “considers that Google can be held
liable on the grounds of civil liability,” LVMH said in
yesterday’s statement. The decision “opens the possibility for
the appeals court to decide on the civil liability of Google
over the use of trademarks without the owner’s authorization.”  
 The French court “confirmed that Google has not infringed
trademark law by allowing advertisers to select keywords
corresponding to third party trademarks,” Benjamin Amaudric Du
Chaffaut, a lawyer for Google, said in an e-mailed statement.
“User interest is best served by maximizing the choice of
keywords.”  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Court News  
 Judiciary Panel to Vote July 20 on Kagan’s Nomination  
 The Senate Judiciary Committee will vote July 20 on Elena
Kagan’s nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court, in time for her to
be confirmed by early August about two months before the
beginning of the next court term.  
 “I would hope to complete it and vote” next week, Senator
Patrick Leahy of Vermont, the panel’s Democratic chairman, said
yesterday in Washington. “I think everybody’s made up their
mind” on how to vote.  
 Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, the panel’s top
Republican, requested a week’s delay in the vote. He said
yesterday he has a number of concerns about placing Kagan on the
court, including her lack of judicial experience and “less than
candid” responses to lawmakers’ questions on issues like
abortion and gun rights.  
 Kagan, 50, was nominated by President Barack Obama on May
10 to replace Justice John Paul Stevens, who retired from the
nine-member court. She is the U.S. solicitor general, the
government’s top lawyer before the Supreme Court. Kagan formerly
was dean of  Harvard Law School  and worked for four years in
President Bill Clinton’s White House as a lawyer and policy
adviser.  
 Democratic leaders plan to schedule a confirmation vote in
the full Senate before lawmakers’ monthlong August recess. The
court will begin its new term Oct. 4.  
 Democrats control 58 of the Senate’s 100 seats, practically
ensuring Kagan’s confirmation.  
 On the Docket  
 Hornbeck Gets 2 Weeks to Answer U.S. Bid to Scrap Drilling Ban  
 The New Orleans appeals court gave a July 26 deadline for
opponents of the U.S. deep-water drilling moratorium to respond
to the government’s request to dismiss their lawsuit, according
to the court’s website.  
 Two New Orleans courts were asked by Interior Secretary
Kenneth Salazar to dismiss an industry lawsuit challenging the
moratorium after the government issued a new temporary ban.  
 U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman in New Orleans on June
22 threw out the six-month ban imposed by federal regulators on
oil and gas drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet, finding it
was too broad. A three-judge panel of the 5th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals in New Orleans on July 8 refused regulators’ request
to put Feldman’s order on hold while the government appeals.  
 On July 12, Salazar issued a revised ban that may allow new
wells if the industry shows it has raised safety standards. The
new policy replaces the earlier ban and renders the challenge to
it moot, U.S. Justice Department lawyers said yesterday in
filings with both courts in New Orleans.  
 President  Barack Obama  initially imposed a six-month
suspension on deep-water drilling in reaction to the  BP Plc  oil
spill, the worst in U.S. history, caused by the sinking of the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig off the Louisiana coast in April.  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and more than a dozen other
offshore service and supply companies sued U.S. regulators,
including Salazar, last month, seeking to block the moratorium.  
 “We’ve just received the decision memorandum of the
government,” Carl Rosenblum, Hornbeck’s lawyer, said in a phone
interview. “We’re still evaluating it, but we have substantial
concerns about whether it is consistent with Judge Feldman’s
order.”  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The appeal case is 10-30585, 5th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        