-- Glaxo's Avandia Can Stay With New Restrictions, FDA Panel Says
-- Molly Peterson
-- 2010-07-15T20:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/glaxo-can-sell-avandia-diabetes-drug-in-u-s-with-new-warnings-panel-says.html

          
          
             A U.S. advisory panel’s call for
stronger warnings about heart risks tied to  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc ’s diabetes drug Avandia may further erode sales that had
already been dropping over the last two years.  
 While the Food and Drug Administration advisers didn’t
recommend a recall, the proposed label changes may eliminate 95
percent of Avandia’s use, said  Steven Nissen , head of cardiology
at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio, in an interview yesterday.  
 Avandia generated $1.1 billion last year for London-based
Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker. That’s one-third of the
drug’s  revenue  before Nissen’s analysis two years earlier linked
the medicine to a 43 percent increased risk in heart attacks.
The FDA began re-examining its 2007 decision to keep Avandia on
the market after members of Congress voiced concerns and data
emerged from almost a dozen new studies.  
 “This is the industry on trial,”  Navid Malik , an analyst
at Matrix Corporate Capital in London, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “The new FDA has a real level of rigor.
They’ll be a lot more cautious going forward, and there will be
a lot more questions before applications for similar drugs go in
for approval.”  
 Increased oversight by the FDA may raise the cost of
clinical trials and drug development for pharmaceutical
companies including Glaxo, Malik said.  
 The FDA panel recommended Avandia’s fate at the conclusion
of a two-day meeting in Gaithersburg, Maryland. While the agency
usually follows the recommendations of its advisers, it isn’t
required to do so.  
 Glaxo Gains  
 Glaxo gained 21 pence, or 1.8 percent, to 1,202.5 pence at
2:56 p.m. in London after the company said in a statement it
expects to record a 1.57 billion-pound ($2.4 billion) legal
charge in the second quarter to settle legal cases, including
lawsuits alleging Avandia led to heart attacks.  
 The drugmaker’s American depositary receipts rose 86 cents,
or 2.4 percent, to $37.21 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. Each ADR represents two ordinary shares.  
 An estimated 23.6 million Americans have diabetes, mostly
the Type 2 variety linked to being overweight and sedentary,
according to the  National Institutes of Health . The disease is
caused by an inability to use insulin to break down blood sugar
into energy and can increase the risk of heart disease, stroke
and kidney damage.  
 Regulatory Approval  
 Avandia is approved by the FDA to treat type 2 diabetes. In
this condition, the body fails to properly use insulin, a
natural substance that helps control blood sugar levels. The
drug, approved for sale in the U.S. in 1999, works by increasing
the body’s sensitivity to insulin.  
 Questions about how Avandia affects the heart arose even
before it won U.S. approval. The drug decreases hemoglobin
levels, raises cholesterol and can cause swelling and weight
gain. European regulators required the company to conduct a
study into Avandia’s cardiovascular safety as a condition of its
approval the following year.  
 Subsequent studies failed to prove Avandia increased the
risk of heart attacks or deaths. Its main rival,  Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. ’s Actos, didn’t boost cholesterol levels,
which can contribute to heart attacks, and was shown to reduce
cardiovascular complications in a 2005 trial.  
 Higher Risk  
 It wasn’t until researchers compiled the results of several
studies that they found patients taking Avandia may be at higher
risk for cardiovascular disease. Nissen’s report used data Glaxo
posted on its website as part of a settlement with former New
York Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer  over claims it withheld
information about the risks of giving the antidepressant Paxil
to children. A Glaxo review found a similar risk, and the
company was discussing the results with the FDA when the Nissen
report came out in May 2007.  
 Nissen said yesterday in an interview that Actos, which is
in the same family of diabetes medicines, has been shown to work
as well as Avandia without the same heart risks. It is not clear
why.  
 Takeda  dropped 1.4 percent to close at 3,965 yen in Tokyo
trading, and Japan’s benchmark Topix index lost 1.6 percent. The
stock had gained 3.3 percent in the last seven trading sessions
until yesterday.  
 Selling Takeda  
 “Some investors are selling Takeda as they had bought the
shares on an expectation that sales of Avandia may be
discontinued,”  Yasuhiro Nakazawa , an equities analyst at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., said by telephone
today.  
 Seventeen members of the FDA advisory panel voted to allow
the drug to remain on the market with new restrictions and three
backed the medicine with no new warnings. Twelve voted to recall
the treatment and one panel member abstained.  
 Regulators “will come to a decision as soon as possible,”
 Janet Woodcock , director of the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation
and Research, told the panel after the meeting. European
regulators have said they also are reviewing the drug’s risks
and benefits.  
 “Avandia is still not out of the woods yet,” said  Timothy Anderson , an analyst at Sanford Bernstein & Co. in New York, in
a note to clients yesterday. “It is possible that Avandia could
still face withdrawal in certain ex-U.S. markets, but the odds
seem better now with the U.S. recommendation to stay on the
market in hand.”  
 Lost Market Share  
 Since 2007, Avandia has lost market share to newer diabetes
drugs including  Merck & Co. ’s Januvia,  Amylin Pharmaceuticals
Inc.  and  Eli Lilly & Co. ’s Byetta, and  Novo Nordisk A/S ’s
Victoza. Studies released in recent weeks, including an analysis
by  David Graham , a drug safety reviewer at FDA, suggested
Avandia may be linked to more deaths, heart attacks and strokes.  
 “I can’t imagine that Glaxo is happy with this vote,”
Graham, associate director for science and medicine in the FDA’s
Office of Surveillance and Epidemiology, said in an interview.
“The sentiment of the committee was that Avandia should not be
widely available for use in the United States.”  
 During the course of two days, the panel heard reports from
Glaxo researchers, FDA staff and outside scientists about the
safety of Avandia, approved in 1999. A series of votes
considered whether Avandia’s risks were greater than rival
diabetes drugs. They determined the heart attack risks from
Avandia were worse than for patients on  Takeda ’s Actos, a
treatment that works the same way.  
 2007 Vote  
 A similar advisory panel voted 22-1 to allow Avandia to
stay on the market in 2007 after saying the data suggested heart
risks.  
 “They moved a long way from 2007 and they gave the
leadership of the FDA enough ammunition to withdraw if they want
to withdraw,” Nissen said yesterday. If the agency adopts
recommendations to certify doctors who prescribe Avandia and
restrict patient use, “it would mean that essentially the drug
would be used almost not at all,” he said.  
 “Following today’s recommendations, we will, of course,
continue to work with the FDA in the best interest of diabetes
patients who face this chronic and serious disease,” said  Ellen Strahlman , Glaxo’s chief medical officer, in a statement.
“Patients taking Avandia should speak with their physician
about their treatment and any questions they may have regarding
the safety of the medicine.”  
 FDA Appointees  
 President  Barack Obama  last year appointed FDA Commissioner
 Margaret Hamburg  and Principal Deputy Commissioner  Joshua Sharfstein  to run the agency, citing their expertise in public
health. Lawmakers have urged them to use the Avandia decision to
show their commitment to protecting consumers.  
 “If the FDA is to be a force for change and for returning
to the gold standard for safety for which it was once known,
then its upcoming decision on whether to pull Avandia from the
market will be the defining moment for the agency under the
Obama administration,” said Representative  Rosa DeLauro , a
Connecticut Democrat, in a statement yesterday. DeLauro chairs
the House subcommittee in charge of the FDA’s budget.  
 Two members of the current FDA advisory panel, who also
were part of the group that examined Avandia in 2007, took
opposing views on the new research.  
 “The additional evidence since 2007 is weak from a
clinical and scientific point of view, and there was nothing
that convinced me it required a major change,” said  Arthur Moss , one of three panelists who voted to keep Avandia on the
market with no labeling changes. Moss is director of the
University of Rochester Medical Center’s Heart Research Follow-
up Program.  
 ‘Totality of Evidence’  
 Clifford Rosen, director of Clinical and Translational
Research at Maine Medical Center, said, “the totality of
evidence is now stronger” that Avandia poses significant heart
risks. “Clearly there is a signal.”  
 The panel recommended in a 19-11 vote that Glaxo continue
its ‘Tide’ study comparing Avandia and Actos. Two panel members
abstained and one left the meeting before the vote.  
 “I find there to be very little clarity in the two days of
analysis that we’ve been subjected to,” said Rebecca Killion,
the panel’s patient representative. “This drug is not for
everybody, but that may not mean that it’s not for anybody.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     GlaxoSmithKline Plc's Avandia diabetes drug at a pharmacy in New York. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Michael Obuchowski, managing director at First Empire Asset Management Inc., talks about a U.S. panel's recommendation that GlaxoSmithKline Plc keep selling its diabetes pill Avandia.
     Seventeen of 32 advisers to the Food and Drug Administration recommended new warnings or restrictions for the drug after evaluating its heart risks. Obuchowski speaks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Abraham Thomas, a member of a U.S. Food and Drug Administration advisory panel, talks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about the panel's vote today to recommend GlaxoSmithKline Plc be allowed to continue selling its diabetes pill Avandia.
     Thomas was one of 12 FDA advisers who recommended Avandia be recalled because of heart risks. Seventeen of 32 advisers recommended new warnings or restrictions for Avandia. Three panel members said no changes were needed to the drug’s prescribing information. Thomas speaks on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
