-- GM's Whitacre Pushes Banks to Sell Cars, Not Just IPO Shares
-- David Welch
-- 2010-07-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/gm-s-whitacre-pushes-banks-to-sell-cars-not-just-shares-in-initial-offer.html

          
          
             General Motors Co. Chief Executive
Officer  Ed Whitacre  never misses the chance for a sales pitch.  
 When GM sought proposals in May to manage its initial
public offering, it didn’t want advice only on selling shares.
The automaker wanted help selling Cadillacs and Corvettes. Banks
were asked to consider using some of the underwriting fees to
subsidize the purchase of GM cars by their employees, according
to a two-page document obtained by Bloomberg.  
 Whitacre, 68, is squeezing concessions from banks vying for
a role in what may be the second-biggest IPO in U.S. history.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Morgan Stanley  won the lead mandate in
June and agreed to fees of 0.75 percent of the sale, a quarter
of the usual rate for large stock sales, people with knowledge
of the matter said last month.  
 “That’s hardball,” said  Joe Phillippi , principal of
AutoTrends, a consulting firm in Short Hills, New Jersey.
“After beating them down on fees they want another pound of
flesh. It does sound a little unusual.”  
 Kristin Lemkau , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment. Mark Lake, a Morgan Stanley spokesman, didn’t have an
immediate comment.  Randy Arickx , a GM spokesman, said he wasn’t
familiar with the request in the document and declined to
comment.  
 Banks were asked to discuss “ideas as to how we can use
the IPO to reposition GM and its vehicles within the investment
community including your firm’s willingness to reinvest any
portion of any underwriting fees into the purchase of GM
vehicles for your employees and/or company use.”  
 Bank Fees  
 GM sent the request for proposal before it agreed to fees
with its lead banks. GM and the U.S. Treasury, which owns 61
percent of the automaker, want to keep fees for the IPO low
because GM still is recovering and needs to conserve cash,
according to analysts and professors. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration also was wary of paying Wall Street banks large
fees after bailing some of them out with government funds, two
people familiar with the situation have said.  
 GM was to choose the lead bankers, while the Treasury
retained veto power over the selection and determined the fees,
according to a statement the government issued last month.  
 JPMorgan had offered to accept payment in equity instead of
cash, and that idea was rejected by GM and the Treasury, two
people said. If the banks agreed to reinvest fees in buying GM
vehicles, their take would be even less, Phillippi said.  
 Companies don’t usually ask investment banks to buy
products or services as part of the relationship, said  Roni Michaely , a finance professor at Cornell University’s Johnson
Graduate School of Management in Ithaca, New York. With banks
doing fewer deals, companies can make more requests, he said.  
 ‘GM Has Leverage’  
 “Wall Street always had the upper hand and charged
extremely high fees,” Michaely said. “Now there are many
investment banks who want to do this deal. GM has leverage in
this market.”  
 GM, based in Detroit, also requested in the document that
the banks discuss their interest in providing GM with a multi-
year revolving credit line.  
 The automaker asked the banks to submit views on the size
of the transaction, a schedule for the IPO and how they would
market the stock sale.  
 GM plans to file a prospectus next month and sell the
shares in November if market conditions permit, two people
familiar with the situation have said. The company plans to sell
20 percent of Treasury’s stake, which would reduce the
government’s ownership to less than 50 percent, said two people
familiar with the plan.  
 The sale will probably raise $10 billion to $15 billion,
depending on the company’s performance, the strength of the
economy and the health of the IPO market, people familiar with
the plan said in June.  
 Since 1999, four U.S. IPOs have exceeded $5 billion -- Visa
Inc.’s $19.7 billion deal in 2008, AT&T Wireless Group’s
$10.6 billion offering in 2000, Kraft Foods Inc.’s $8.68 billion
deal in 2001 and United Parcel Service Inc.’s $5.47 billion sale
in 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ed Whitacre, chairman and chief executive officer of General Motors Co.. Photographer: Ed Lallo/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
