-- GM to Offer 8-Year Warranty on Chevrolet Volt's Battery to Reassure Buyers
-- David Welch
-- 2010-07-14T20:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/gm-to-offer-8-year-warranty-on-chevrolet-volt-s-battery-to-reassure-buyers.html

          
          
             General Motors Co. is moving to
boost the confidence of car buyers in the durability of its new
Chevrolet Volt electric car with an eight-year warranty on its
battery.  
 The Detroit automaker made the announcement at the factory
in Brownstown Township, Michigan, where the batteries will be
built. Next year, GM will build 10,000 of the cars, which run on
all-electric drive for 40 miles before a gasoline engine
recharges the battery. The Volt will initially be sold this year
in parts of Texas, New York, California and Washington, D.C.  
 GM is seeking to use the Volt to challenge the high-tech
image  Toyota Motor Corp.  won with the success of the Prius
hybrid, said  Jim Hall , principal of consulting firm 2953
Analytics in Birmingham, Michigan. Doing so will require GM to
ensure the car performs and to stand behind it with a strong
warranty, he said.  
 “Toyota defined what a hybrid was with Prius,” Hall said.
“GM can define an extended-range electric vehicle, but if the
car doesn’t perform well, you have a fiasco.”  
 While GM hasn’t given a price on the Volt yet, executives
have said they want to keep it below $40,000.  
 Tom Stephens , GM’s vice chairman of global product
operations, said the car’s battery can last longer than the
warranty. Even after eight years, the unit should have 70
percent of its capability, Stephens said. The vehicle would
still drive fine, though with less all-electric range, he said.  
 “We wouldn’t put out a warranty like this if we didn’t
think we had capability beyond it,” he said.  
 The Volt’s official mileage rating may be different than
the 230 mpg the company promoted a year ago, Stephens said. The
Environmental Protection Agency may give different ratings for
long drives that rely more on the gasoline engine and for short
trips that use little or no gas, Stephens said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        