-- Goldman's Matsui Cuts Topix Forecast on Political Uncertainty, Strong Yen
-- Akiko Ikeda
-- 2010-07-14T06:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/goldman-s-matsui-cuts-topix-forecast-on-political-uncertainty-strong-yen.html

          
          
             Kathy Matsui , an investment
strategist in Japan for Goldman Sachs Group Inc., cut her three-
month estimate for the Topix index by 5.3 percent, citing
political uncertainties and the yen’s appreciation.  
 Matsui lowered the target to 900 from 950, according to a
report dated yesterday, when the  gauge  closed at 854.39. The
strategist cut her six-month estimate to 950 from 1,000 and the
12-month prediction to 1,020 from 1,150, the report said.  
 The Topix fell 0.8 percent in the previous two days after
the ruling Democratic Party of Japan lost control of the upper
house in a weekend election. The yen climbed a week ago to near
its highest level in seven months as concerns over the health of
the global economy caused some investors to seek refuge in
Japan’s currency. A stronger yen hurts the value of export
revenue that is repatriated.  
 “In the short term, political uncertainties will likely
mount and the policymaking processes may become more
cumbersome,” Matsui wrote in the Japanese-language report.
“The most powerful driver for an increase in investment in
Japanese stocks is the yen’s depreciation.”  
 The strategist raised her rating on communication and
transportation companies to “overweight” from “neutral,”
citing large cash flows and the possibility of China relaxing
tightening policies. She also recommends retail and real-estate
companies that should be supported by economic measures such as
child-care allowances and tax breaks for home buyers.  
 Matsui lowered her call on the precision-machinery and
consumer-electronics industries to “neutral” from
“overweight,” because a slowdown in the U.S. economy may hurt
profits of companies that rely on overseas sales.  
 To contact the reporters on the story:
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        