-- Goldman Cuts Dollar Forecasts Against the Euro, Yen on Weaker U.S. Growth
-- Candice Zachariahs
-- 2010-07-15T09:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/goldman-raises-euro-forecast-to-1-35-in-6-months-versus-1-15-previously.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the
dollar will weaken against the euro by January as U.S. growth
slows, marking the bank’s second reversal in two months after it
forecast in June the greenback would surge to a seven-year high.  
 Europe’s single currency will fall to $1.22 in three months
before gaining to $1.35 in six months and $1.38 in a year,
according to an e-mailed research note dated July 14. The bank
raised its outlook for the yen, forecasting it to reach the
highest level since 1995 versus the dollar, citing lower
expectations for interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve
or currency intervention by Japanese officials.  
 “Weaker U.S. growth, reasonably solid euro-zone macro data
and less political/fiscal disruptions than feared have been a
feature of the past few weeks,” wrote analysts including  Thomas Stolper , an economist in London for Goldman. “This weakening in
U.S. activity is the beginning of a period of sub-trend growth,
spanning about four quarters until the second half of 2011.”  
 The euro traded at $1.2794 as of 10:20 a.m. in London from
$1.2743 yesterday in New York. It traded at 1.3404 Swiss francs
from 1.3414. The dollar was at 88.03 yen from 88.41 yesterday.  
 Minutes of the Federal Reserve’s June 23 meeting showed
policy makers were concerned about  unemployment  and deflation in
the world’s largest economy. If the outlook worsened, the
Federal Open Market Committee would need to consider whether
additional stimulus was appropriate, according to the minutes,
which were released yesterday.  
 ‘Notably Lower’  
 Goldman analysts said the euro may weaken this quarter as
popularity falters in some European governments and markets
await the impact of stress tests on 91 of the region’s banks due
July 23. The euro will move “notably lower” to 1.27 Swiss
francs over three months on safe-haven flows out of the euro
zone, according to the note.  
 “We may need a few more months with strong activity data
before we are willing to sound the all clear on European fiscal
issues,” the analysts wrote.  
 The bank’s six-month outlook takes it back to the position
it held before June 9, when it predicted the common currency
would drop to a seven-year low of $1.15 over three and six
months from a $1.35 forecast earlier.  
 The bank expects the euro will recover to 1.30 francs and
then 1.33 francs over six months and a year.  
 Yen Strength  
 Goldman expects the dollar will breach this year’s low
versus Japan’s currency, sliding to as weak as 83 yen in six
months from an earlier call for it to trade at 94 yen. The
greenback will buy 85 yen in three months and 90 yen in 12
months, compared to earlier predictions for 92 and 98
respectively.  
 “The market is still pricing in too much for U.S. rates
through end-2011 and as this is re-priced lower, it will likely
push dollar-yen lower as well,” the analysts wrote. “The
Japanese economy has been able to recover much more quickly than
expected, helped by strong exports to the rest of Asia.”  
 Bank of Japan policy makers today kept interest rates
unchanged at 0.1 percent and raised their growth forecast for
the year ending March 2011 to 2.6 percent from 1.8 percent
estimated in April. They pared next year’s expected growth rate
to 1.9 percent from 2 percent previously.  
 Fed Rates  
 The Fed won’t raise its target rate until the second
quarter of 2011, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists. Both central banks have held rates
near zero since December 2008.  
 Concern among policy makers that a strong yen will hurt
exporters and dent the nation’s economic recovery is unlikely to
result in intervention in the currency markets, Goldman said.
Moves to sell the yen to limit gains may cause “frictions”
with a U.S. administration focused on promoting currency
flexibility in Asia, particularly China, the analysts wrote.  
 “Any sharp move in dollar-yen would generate verbal
intervention,” the analysts said. “We don’t expect the
administration to actively prevent yen appreciation for the time
being.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Lakshman Achuthan, managing director of the Economic Cycle Research Institute, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about Federal Reserve monetary policy and the outlook for the U.S. economy. 
     Fed officials, in their minutes released today, saw no need to boost stimulus to the economy while trimming their forecasts for growth and noting that risks to the recovery had increased, minutes of the June Federal Open Market Committee meeting showed. Bloomberg's Michael McKee and Richard Yamarone also speak. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
