-- Goldman Sachs Can Show SEC Clients Get Best Returns on Its IPOs
-- Michael Tsang
-- 2010-07-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/goldman-sachs-can-show-sec-investors-and-companies-get-most-from-its-ipos.html

          
          
               Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., accused by
the U.S. government of defrauding investors, is generating
better returns for companies and buyers of initial public
offerings than any other Wall Street firm.  
 American companies that used New York-based Goldman Sachs
as the lead underwriter for initial sales got the highest prices
for their shares in the first half of 2010, selling at an
average 1.4 percent discount to their offering range, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Buyers were rewarded with an average
first-day advance of 9.6 percent, the biggest this year.  
 The U.S. IPO market is proving why Goldman Sachs, the most
profitable securities firm in Wall Street’s history, is still
the bank of choice for companies looking to raise capital and
buyers seeking the biggest returns, finance professors at the
University of Chicago and the University of  Notre Dame  said.
Offerings led by  Credit Suisse Group AG  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
were discounted the most and produced the smallest gains,
Bloomberg data show.  
 “The issuer and investor care about the opposite things,
and the investment bank is in the middle,” said Steven Kaplan,
professor of finance at the University of Chicago’s Booth School
of Business. “There’s conflict. Goldman appears to have done
very well.”  
 SEC Charges  
 Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein’s firm is beating
competitors in an area that generates some of Wall Street’s
biggest fees. Bankers charged 6.4 percent for underwriting U.S.
IPOs this year, more than 10 times that for mergers and
acquisitions and corporate bonds, Bloomberg data show.  
 Goldman Sachs won the largest share of the $580 million in
fees from initial offerings in the first half, even after the
Securities and Exchange Commission sued the firm in April for
allegedly selling mortgage-related securities that were designed
to fail. The bank has called the SEC’s lawsuit “completely
unfounded.”  
 SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment.  
 Goldman Sachs was the so-called lead-left underwriter for
11 U.S. IPOs in the first half, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
More than half of those were priced above the middle of the
offering range, while Goldman Sachs-led deals accounted for four
of this year’s five biggest premiums, the data indicate.  
 Companies that didn’t hire the 141-year old firm to lead
their IPOs took an average discount of 14 percent for their
shares.  
 First-Day Gains  
 Buying initial sales from Goldman Sachs has produced first-
day gains that are more than double the average 3.6 percent for
offerings arranged by other banks, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. In the first month of trading, IPOs led by  Morgan Stanley 
produced the largest returns, rising 7.8 percent on average.  
   Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman at Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment.  
   Financial Engines Inc ., the investment adviser co-founded
by Nobel laureate William Sharpe, garnered the largest premium
of any U.S. IPO this year in a March deal led by Goldman Sachs.  
 The provider of portfolio-management services to people
with employer-sponsored retirement plans jumped 44 percent in
its first day, the biggest surge this year, after selling shares
at $12 each. The price was 20 percent higher than the  Palo Alto ,
California-based company had originally asked buyers to pay.  
 “Goldman is clearly the king investment banker,” said Tim Loughran, a finance professor at the University of Notre Dame’s
Mendoza College of Business in Notre Dame, Indiana. “They’ve
come under fire, but it doesn’t matter. If you’re an issuing
firm, that’s the first firm you would go to.”  
 Tesla Motors  
 While the first-day performance of initial sales led by
Goldman Sachs helped buyers reap immediate profits, investors
that held onto the shares have seen the gains diminish. The
advance for the 11 IPOs shrank to 2.5 percent on average over
the first month of trading, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
   Tesla Motors Inc ., the Palo Alto-based maker of the
electric Roadster, erased almost all its 41 percent first-day
surge in the next nine days after the first IPO by an American
car company since 1956.  
 The automaker run by Elon Musk raised $260 million selling
shares for $17 each, 13 percent higher than the midpoint of its
forecast price range and the third-largest premium for a U.S.
company this year. Tesla’s stock ended at $18.14 yesterday, 24
percent below its first-day close of $23.89.  
 ‘The Credibility’  
 “For the underwriter, first-day success is a very
important measure in terms of certifying the power and the
credibility of the franchise,” said Josef Schuster, the
Chicago-based founder of IPOX Capital Management LLC, which
oversees $3 billion. “A good first-day pop certifies the
quality job the underwriter has done with investors and the
company in order to further deals.”  
 Schuster, who purchased Tesla shares for his Direxion
Long/Short Global IPO Fund, sold 30 percent of his stake on the
second day of trading as the stock rose as much as 79 percent
from its offering price.  
 Some deals arranged by Goldman Sachs have helped private
equity sellers while leaving IPO buyers with losses.  
 The initial offering of  Metals USA Holdings Corp ., a Fort
Lauderdale, Florida-based metals processor, almost quadrupled
the value for Leon Black’s New York-based leveraged-buyout firm
Apollo Global Management LLC’s investment. The shares lost 8.6
percent on the first day and 28 percent after one month.  
 Besides Financial Engines and Tesla, four other IPOs led by
Goldman Sachs --  Calix Inc . of Petaluma,  California , Chicago-
based  Accretive Health Inc . and  CBOE Holdings Inc ., and  Higher
One Holdings Inc . in New Haven, Connecticut -- climbed at least
12 percent in their first day of trading.  
 Morgan Stanley  
 Morgan Stanley, which led IPOs that had an average 7.5
percent first-day gain, completed every deal that it
participated in after marketing began, according to Paul Donahue, the firm’s co-head of U.S. equity capital markets.  
 Every other bank had at least one deal that was scuttled,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Americold Realty Trust, the
Atlanta-based warehouse operator owned by Ron Burkle’s Yucaipa
Cos., postponed what would have been the largest IPO of 2010 in
May after cutting its midpoint price by 33 percent. Goldman
Sachs was hired to lead the IPO.  
 “It’s fair to say that everyone entered 2010 with great
expectations and the market has proven to be trickier than
people would have thought entering the year,” said Morgan
Stanley’s Donahue. “It’s exactly these types of markets where
we think Morgan Stanley as a franchise has differentiated
itself.”  
 Credit Suisse, JPMorgan  
 All five U.S. companies that listed Credit Suisse as the
first underwriter took price cuts. The average 21 percent
discount from the original midpoint offer price was the biggest
for any firm’s deals.  
 Sales arranged by Zurich-based Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s
second-biggest bank, also left investors with the smallest
first-day returns as four of the five companies rose less than 1
percent. The gains then turned into declines that averaged 7.8
percent in the first month, making it the only bank whose deals
lost money for IPO buyers in the period, Bloomberg data show.  
   Alimera Sciences Inc ., the Alpharetta, Georgia-based
developer of treatments for diseases of the retina, sold its
shares for $11 each after cutting the range from $15 to $17 in
an offering led by Credit Suisse. The stock closed unchanged in
its first day of trading before falling 27 percent in the next
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
   Duncan King , a Credit Suisse spokesman, declined to
comment.  
 Winning Deals  
 “Pricing above or below the range generally reflects
strong or weak demand relative to what was originally
expected,” said Jay Ritter, a finance professor at the
University of Florida in Gainesville who has studied IPOs for
three decades. “If an underwriter is consistently pricing below
the range, however, it might mean that it had been aggressive in
suggesting a high valuation in order to win deals.”  
 Six of the eight companies that hired New York-based
JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S. bank, to lead their IPOs sold
shares at a discount. The average price reduction equaled 20.9
percent, the data show.  
   AVEO Pharmaceuticals Inc ., which is developing a kidney-
cancer treatment, took the biggest cut, reducing its price by 36
percent. The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company sold shares
at $9 each after offering them at $13 to $15.  
 The initial sales by JPMorgan produced first-day gains of
3.5 percent, less than every bank except for Credit Suisse.
JPMorgan spokeswoman Tasha Pelio declined to comment.  
 “It’s a balancing act,” said Lisa Jacobs, a New York-
based partner in the capital markets group at law firm Shearman
& Sterling LLP. “Lead underwriters are looking for that price
at which both the companies and investors get the benefit of the
bargain and feel they’ve gotten a good deal. It’s a fair amount
of science but it’s also a little bit of art.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael Tsang  in  New York  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein. Photographer: Chris Kleponis/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Goldman Sachs Group Inc., accused by the U.S. government of defrauding investors, is generating better returns for companies and buyers of initial public offerings than any other Wall Street firm, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Bloomberg's Jon Erlichman reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
