-- Grace Jones in Lovebox, Gorilla Art, Domingo: London Weekend
-- Farah Nayeri
-- 2010-07-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/grace-jones-in-lovebox-gorilla-art-domingo-london-weekend.html

          
          
             Dizzee Rascal opens the Lovebox
Weekender festival, which has now grown to a three-day rock
event in east London’s Victoria Park.  
 The rapper’s Friday night show has the Noisettes in
support. Saturday’s lineup is led by 1970s rockers  Roxy Music 
and Mark Ronson, the producer of  Amy Winehouse . Scary diva  Grace Jones  brings the show to a close on Sunday after a set from
electropop band Hot Chip.  
 Information:  http://www.lovebox.net/   
 Saturday  
 Art’s answer to MySpace has taken over the  Royal Academy .  
 Since 1768, any artist can make a submission to the RA’s
annual Summer Exhibition. This year, some 1,200 works crowd the
main galleries, and most are for sale (you’ll find the prices in
the handy little booklet).  
 It’s an uneven lineup, and your eyes may be drawn to the
older masters dotting the show ( Anselm Kiefer ,  Georg Baselitz ,
 David Hockney ,  Anthony Caro ). Still, there’s something for all
tastes and budgets in this apercu of the U.K. visual-arts scene.  
 A highlight: the hulking gorilla made of wire coat hangers
by David Mach, which turned heads at the Abu Dhabi Art Fair in
November. See also Mach’s collage “Babel Towers.”  
 Information:  http://www.royalacademy.org.uk/  or call
+44-844-209-1919.  
 Saturday Night  
 The play that convinced  Arthur Miller  to carry on writing
for theater is now at the Apollo Shaftesbury Avenue.  
 “All My Sons” is based on a true story spotted in the
Ohio press by Miller’s then mother-in-law. It’s about a family
man whose sale of faulty plane parts to the U.S. military causes
World War II deaths that come back to haunt him. The staging by
Howard Davies stars  David Suchet  and  Zoe Wanamaker .  
 Information:  http://www.apollo-theatre.co.uk  or call
+44-845-505-8500.  
 Those who prefer an evening of high-caliber Brazilian
vocals can hear Maria Bethania at the Royal Festival Hall.
Information:  http://www.southbankcentre.co.uk  or call
+44-844-875-0073.  
 Gauthier serves exquisite small plates of seasonal French
cuisine in a Regency-style Soho townhouse. The lunch and pre-
theater menu is 18 pounds for two courses, 25 pounds for three.
Information:  http://www.gauthiersoho.co.uk/  or call
+44-20-7494-311.  
 Sunday  
 Few were lucky enough over the last month to hear star
tenor  Placido Domingo  in a baritone role: Verdi’s “Simon
Boccanegra” at the  Royal Opera . Sunday is a chance to watch him
do it all over again, for a costumed and semi-staged version in
the gigantic  Royal Albert Hall .  
 The  Proms , that much-loved British concert series started
115 years ago, open Friday with a staggering 500-member chorus
performing Mahler’s Symphony No. 8. Saturday comes Welsh singer
 Bryn Terfel  in Wagner’s “The Mastersingers of Nuremberg.”  
 Also performing between now and Sept. 11 are soprano  Renee Fleming , conductor  Simon Rattle , and two musicians making Prom
debuts: violinist Nicola Benedetti and jazzman Jamie Cullum.  
 Information:  http://www.bbc.co.uk/proms  or
+44-845-401-5040.  
 ( Farah Nayeri  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Violinist Nicola Benedetti. Benedetti makes her debut at the annual BBC3 Proms concert series this year in London. Source: BBC Proms via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Royal Albert Hall during the BBC3 Proms concert series. This year's programs runs from July 16 through Sept. 11. Source: BBC Proms via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Placido Domingo as Simon Boccanegra in the 1881 Verdi opera, at the Royal Opera House. Famed for his career as a tenor, Domingo turns baritone to sing this role. Photographer: Catherine Ashmore/Royal Opera via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Placido Domingo and Marina Poplavskaya in the Verdi opera "Simon Boccanegra" at the Royal Opera House. The Elijah Moshkinsky production keeps the action in the fourteenth century, the era of the real-life Simon Boccanegra. Photographer: Catherine Ashmore/Royal Opera via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Ferruccio Furlanetto, left, and Placido Domingo in the Verdi opera "Simon Boccanegra" at the Royal Opera House. It is only when Boccanegra (Domingo) is suffering from the effects of poison that his old enemy Fiesco (Furlanetto) can make peace with him. Photographer: Catherine Ashmore/Royal Opera via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Zoe Wanamaker and David Suchet in Arthur Miller's ''All My Sons." The play, directed by Howard Davies, is at London's Apollo Theatre on Shaftesbury Avenue, through Oct. 2. Photographer: Nobby Clark/Jo Allan PR via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Silver Streak"  
                       
                         
                           Ruder Finn Inc. via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Silver Streak,'' a three-meter high gorilla by David Mach. The piece is made of wire coat hangers and took a central position at the first annual Abu Dhabi art fair. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Silver Streak,'' a three-meter high gorilla by David Mach. The piece is made of wire coat hangers and took a central position at the first annual Abu Dhabi art fair. Source: Ruder Finn Inc. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Memories of Rain"  
                       
                         
                           John Bodkin/Royal Academy via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Memories of Rain" by John Hoyland. The work is on show at the Royal Academy summer exhibition through August 22. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Memories of Rain" by John Hoyland. The work is on show at the Royal Academy summer exhibition through August 22. Photographer: John Bodkin/Royal Academy via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "High Summer" by Gillian Ayres. The work is displayed at the Royal Academy summer exhibition through August 22. Source: Royal Academy  via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "Crash Willy" by Yinka Shonibare. The work is featured at the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition through August 22. Source: Royal Academy via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Large Left-Handed Drummer  
                       
                         
                           John Bodkin/Royal Academy via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Large Left-Handed Drummer" by Barry Flanagan. The work is on show at the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition through August 22. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Large Left-Handed Drummer" by Barry Flanagan. The work is on show at the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition through August 22. Photographer: John Bodkin/Royal Academy via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An undated handout photo, provided to the media on Wednesday, Nov. 5, 2008 shows singer Grace Jones. Source: Lawrence Watson/The Outside Organisation via Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
