-- Greece Confident It Will Get Second EU-IMF Loan; Rail, Health Changes Next
-- Maria Petrakis
-- 2010-07-14T15:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/greece-confident-it-will-get-second-eu-imf-loan-rail-health-changes-next.html

          
          
             Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  told parliament the government had met targets
set by the European Union and International Monetary Fund that
would secure a second installment of aid.  
 Progress to date shows there will be no obstacle to the
release of the second tranche, Papaconstantinou said, according
to an e-mailed transcript of his presentation to a committee in
Athens today. The budget is within targets and the 29 measures
outlined by the EU and IMF for the second quarter of the year
have been passed into law or implemented, he said.  
 Papaconstantinou said yesterday the government may resume
bond sales next year and welcomed an auction of Treasury bills.
Greece sold 1.625 billion euros ($2.1 billion) of 26-week bills
at a yield of 4.65 percent, less than the 5 percent rate tied to
110 billion euros of three-year emergency loans that euro-area
nations approved in May to prevent a default.  
 EU and IMF officials are due in Athens at the end of the
month for the next assessment of progress to allow the second
aid disbursement of 9 billion euros by September. Of that
amount, 6.5 billion euros will come from the EU.  
 The finance minister said key measures to be completed by
the end of the year include opening up closed professions, such
as lawyers, pharmacists and engineers, an overhaul of the health
system and the implementation of a restructuring plan for
unprofitable Hellenic Railways Organization SA.  
 The Greek government’s goal is to reduce its deficit from
13.6 percent of gross domestic product last year to within the
EU’s 3 percent limit in 2014, and it faces quarterly EU and IMF
reviews. The Finance Ministry reported this week that the
deficit shrank 46 percent in the first half of the year, as the
government cut spending and raised taxes.  
 A second increase in value-added tax and higher duties on
fuel, tobacco and alcohol will help boost budget revenue by
about 2 billion euros, or 0.8 percent of GDP, in the second half
of the year, according to the presentation.  
 Changes to the state-run pension system, passed last week,
are among other conditions laid down by the EU and IMF for
disbursement of the aid.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        