-- Egypt to Allow Libya's Gaza Aid Ship to Dock
-- Gwen Ackerman
-- 2010-07-14T20:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/libya-s-gaza-aid-ship-heads-for-egyptian-port-after-warning-from-israelis.html

          
          
             A Libyan aid ship carrying supplies
for the Gaza Strip has docked in the Egyptian port of El Arish,
state-run Nile News television reported.  
 The vessel sailed to Egypt after Israel warned it not to
try to breach a naval blockade of the Hamas-controlled coastal
territory.  
 Egypt’s Red Crescent “will unload all aid and food, and
with the help of security authorities we will make sure that all
the aid will reach our brothers in the Gaza Strip,” North Sinai
Governor Mourad Mowafi told Nile News.  
 The Libyan ship is carrying 2,000 tons of food and
medicine, the  Gaddafi International Charity and Development
Foundation , which sponsored the shipment, said.  
 Nine pro-Palestinian activists from Turkey were killed on
May 31 after Israeli commandos raided one of six aid ships in a
flotilla trying to breach the embargo. Israel and Egypt loosened
restrictions on Gaza following international criticism of the
operation.  
 Israel and Egypt have restricted shipments to Gaza since
Hamas seized full control there in 2007 after winning
Palestinian parliamentary elections the previous year. The
Islamist militant group is considered a terrorist organization
by the U.S., the European Union and Israel.  
 Israeli Vessels  
 Youssef Sawani, head of the Gaddafi foundation, said in a
phone interview late yesterday that the ship planned to defy
Israeli warnings and proceed to Gaza. The Libyan ship was
flanked by eight Israeli navy vessels before entering Egyptian
waters, the foundation said in a statement on its website.  
 The owner of the ship, which departed from Greece on July
10, has said he didn’t want the vessel involved in any
confrontation, according to the website of the Gaddafi
organization, headed by  Saif Al-Islam Qaddafi , the Libyan
leader’s son.  
 “There is certainly no reason to try and break the
blockade since humanitarian aid flows unimpeded into Gaza,”
said Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman  Yigal Palmor . “There
are appropriate ways to send aid, either through Ashdod or
Egypt.” Ashdod is a port in southwestern Israel.  
 The U.S. State Department has urged the Libyan government
to “avoid unnecessary confrontations,” and called for the aid
vessel to deliver its goods “through established channels.”  
 Strained Ties  
 The May incident strained ties with Turkey, once Israel’s
closest ally in the Middle East. Israel rejected calls for an
international investigation into the incident, including demands
from Turkey, and set up its own inquiries.  
 A civilian panel will hear testimony from Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu , Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  and Chief of
Staff Lieutenant General  Gabi Ashkenazi  next month.  
 Palestinians, backed by the United Nations and human-rights
groups, say the restrictions on food imports and construction
materials have created a humanitarian crisis.  
 Israel’s Cabinet agreed on June 20 to allow in all foods
and lift some restrictions on construction materials. Israel has
said building supplies could be used to build rockets, bunkers
or bombs.  
 Israel began a three-week military offensive in Gaza in
December 2008 that it said was meant to stop the firing of
rockets by Hamas and other Palestinian militants into its
territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict.  
 More than 400 rockets and mortars have been fired from Gaza
into Israel since the end of the war, killing a foreign worker,
the Israeli army said.  
 Israeli bombing and ground operations during the offensive
destroyed more than 3,000 homes, and Israel’s restrictions on
construction materials have prevented Palestinians from being
able to rebuild, the UN said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        