-- Iceland Faces Second Wave of Bank Failures as Loan Ruling Depletes Assets
-- Omar R. Valdimarsson
-- 2010-07-14T14:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/iceland-faces-second-wave-of-bank-failures-as-loan-ruling-depletes-assets.html

          
          
             Iceland’s  creditor-controlled banks
face a second round of failures as a court ruling depletes their
capital while the government and pension funds balk at providing
additional financing, according to regulators and investors.  
 Lenders, including the successors to failed  Kaupthing Bank
hf ,  Glitnir Bank hf  and  Landsbanki Islands hf , may lose as much
as $4.3 billion, equal to a third of Iceland’s economy, after a
June 16 Supreme Court decision banned loans indexed to foreign
currencies, according to the Finance Ministry. That would push
the capital of some banks below the legal minimum, said  Gunnar Andersen , head of the  Financial Supervisory Authority .  
 “We’d give them a deadline to make adjustments, about one
or two months,” Andersen said in a July 9 interview in
Reykjavik. “That time could be used to sell assets or raise new
capital. Failing that, they’d risk losing their licenses.”  
 New bank closures would stall efforts to rebuild relations
with investors almost two years after Iceland’s financial system
collapsed. The government, which is relying on a $4.6 billion
 International Monetary Fund -led loan, says a second bank bailout
would be a “severe blow” to its finances. Creditors, including
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and Credit Agricole Vita SpA,
became shareholders in the banks after a state takeover in 2008.  
 “It goes without saying that Glitnir creditors are looking
into their legal position and whether they can sue the Icelandic
government,” said  Arni Tomasson , head of Glitnir’s resolution
committee, which represents the creditors.  
 Krona Plunge  
 Iceland’s financial crisis was exacerbated by banks that
borrowed in currencies such as Japanese yen and Swiss francs to
take advantage of lower interest rates, then repackaged them as
kronur loans for clients. The krona has lost 39 percent against
the yen and 31 percent against the franc since Sept. 15, 2008.
The ruling limited borrowers’ liabilities to the principal,
while lenders were left to foot the bill for currency losses.  
 Icelandic banks have as much as 900 billion kronur ($7.2
billion) of foreign currency loans and may have to write down
their value by 40 percent to 60 percent, Finance Minister
Steingrimur J. Sigfusson said July 7.  
 By comparison, the three biggest bank have combined equity
of 340 billion kronur, said  Gunnar Bjarni Vidarsson , an
economist at  IFS Consulting  in Reykjavik, which provides
research for financial companies and investors.  
 “If the banks have to write off 40 to 60 percent” of
their foreign currency loans “they are bankrupt,” he said.  
 Space to Respond  
 Islandsbanki hf, the successor to Glitnir, has a capital
adequacy ratio of 21 percent, compared with the 16 percent
required by the FSA, and has accounted for writedowns on some of
the assets transferred from Glitnir, the lender said.  
 “Altogether, this gives the bank some space to deal with
the now altered position,” Glitnir said in an e-mailed response
to questions. “Otherwise, the bank can’t comment on possible
reactions to further court rulings.”  
 Opposition lawmakers today sought a meeting with
parliament’s economy and trade committees to discuss the fallout
of the ruling, radio broadcaster RUV said, citing lawmaker Eyglo
Hardardottir. Askar Capital, a bank whose primary asset was a
car loan unit, yesterday became the first company to declare
itself insolvent because of the court’s decision.  
 The ruling coalition says its debt burden makes a bailout
of the banks problematic. The government’s gross debt will peak
at 110 percent of gross domestic product this year, the  central
bank  estimates. That compares with an average of 80 percent for
the European Union, which Iceland seeks to join.  
 ‘Severe Blow’  
 “Nothing has been ruled out in regard to the government
assisting the banks,” Economy Minister  Gylfi Magnusson  said in
an interview today. “Although it’s neither easy nor desirable
for the government to inject new equity into the banks, it’s by
no means out of the question.”  
 Still, rescuing the banks would represent a “severe blow
for the Treasury; it’s simply very unfortunate for the state to
further indebt itself,” he said.  
 That leaves Iceland’s pension funds and international
investors as the most likely sources of new capital.  
 While pension funds are the “only body that has the
money” to recapitalize the banks, “it’s questionable whether
the Icelandic banks can be considered to be a good investment,”
said  Hrafn Magnusson , managing director of the  Icelandic Pension
Fund Association .  
 ‘Limits’  
 Pension funds also may be unwilling to help the state bail
out the banks. “There are limits on the amounts the pension
funds can lend to the government,” Magnusson said.  
 Iceland’s currency controls present obstacles to attracting
money from overseas, said Vidarsson of  IFS Consulting .  
 “Getting international investors to put money into
Icelandic banks is highly unlikely,” he said. “Foreigners
don’t seem interested in investing in Iceland.”  
 The banks are waiting for a separate ruling on the interest
rates that apply to loans affected by the June decision. The
 central bank  and FSA have recommended lenders be allowed to
charge higher Icelandic rates instead of the contractual rates
linked to the Swiss franc and Japanese yen.  
 NBI hf, the successor to Landsbanki, can meet minimum
capital ratios if the June decision -- based on one corporate
and two retail loans -- applies only to mortgage debt and if the
bank is allowed to charge higher interest rates, said Chief
Executive Officer Steinthor Palsson. NBI is considering how to
respond if the ruling has a broader scope.  
 ‘Uncertainty Factors’  
 “We’re always looking into selling assets,” Palsson said
in an interview. “We’ll just have to sit down and discuss it
with the FSA and the owners.”  
 Kaupthing’s resolution committee said July 6 it isn’t clear
how the ruling will affect the bank’s successor, Arion hf.  
 “There are still a lot of uncertainty factors,” said
Arion spokeswoman Berghildur Ebba Bernhardsdottir. “Therefore
we are wary about speculating at this point in time.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Local properties are reflected in windows at the Kaupthing Bank in Reykjavik, Iceland, on Tuesday, Oct. 7, 2008. Photographer: Arnaldur Halldorsson/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian enters the Landsbanki Islands hf headquarters in Reykjavik, Iceland on Tuesday, Oct. 7, 2008. Photographer: Arnaldur Halldorsson/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
