-- Microsoft Says 12th Alleged Russian Spy Was Employee
-- Anastasia Ustinova
-- 2010-07-14T09:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/microsoft-says-12th-alleged-russian-spy-worked-at-its-redmond-headquarters.html

          
          
             Microsoft Corp.  said the 12th
alleged member of a Russian spy ring operating in the U.S. was
an employee at the company’s Redmond, Washington, headquarters.  
 The man, a Russian citizen in his early 20s named Alexey
Karetnikov, worked for Microsoft as a software tester for about
nine months, a spokeswoman for Microsoft in Moscow, who declined
to be identified in line with company rules, said by e-mail
today.  
 Russia’s Foreign Ministry declined to comment on the news
when contacted by Bloomberg.  
 Ten members of the spy ring pleaded guilty to conspiring to
serve as unregistered foreign agents on June 8 in a U.S. federal
court in Manhattan. They admitted to carrying money or coded
messages, secretly communicating with Russian officials and
instructing others on how to find information useful to Russia.
Their objective was to infiltrate U.S. policy-making circles
after constructing false American identities, prosecutors said.  
 Karetnikov was deported on charges of violating U.S.
immigration laws, Itar-Tass  reported , citing Matt Chandler, a
spokesman for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
Karetnikov admitted to the violation and agreed to deportation
to avoid court proceedings, the state-run news service said.  
 Software Company  
 The  Facebook page  of a person identified as Alexey
Karetnikov shows that he is married and graduated from St.
Petersburg State Polytechnic University in 2009. He worked for a
company called “Neobit” in addition to Microsoft, according to
the Facebook page.  
 A St. Petersburg-based software developer called OOO NeoBIT
lists Katernikov’s university among its partners and the Federal
Security Service, the main successor to the Soviet-era KGB,
among its clients, according to the company’s  website .  
 No one at NeoBIT’s offices answered repeated calls from
Bloomberg News.  
 Strategic Forecasting Inc. said yesterday another member of
the ring tried to get the risk advisory group to install
software he said his company had developed.  
 Assumed Names  
 A man calling himself Donald Heathfield held five meetings
with an employee of Austin, Texas-based Stratfor in an effort to
get the firm to use his program, Chief Executive Officer  George Friedman  said in an e-mailed report. Heathfield, who later
identified himself as Andrey Bezrukov, was one of 10 people U.S.
authorities traded for four Russians on July 9 in Vienna.  
 “We suspect that had this been done, our servers would be
outputting to Moscow,” Friedman said. “We did not know at the
time who he was. We have since reported the incident to the
FBI.”  
 Bezrukov and his partner in the network were sentenced to
time served and deported after agreeing to give up their home on
Trowbridge Street in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and all the funds
in four bank accounts. Bezrukov’s partner, who was identified as
Tracey Foley at the time of her arrest, told the court her real
name was Elena Vavilova.  
 Bezrukov, Vavilova and the other members of the spy ring
are being debriefed at the Foreign Intelligence Service’s
compound in southern Moscow, Moskovsky Komsomolets, Russia’s
second-biggest newspaper by circulation, reported yesterday,
citing unidentified Russian security officials. That process may
last weeks, the Moscow-based daily said.  
 Some of the 10 agents may continue to work with the
security service, while others will be free to pursue new
careers, Moskovsky Komsomolets said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        