-- Microsoft Pays Mobile App Developers to Help It Catch Apple
-- Adam Satariano
-- 2010-07-14T20:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/microsoft-pays-developers-to-build-mobile-apps-to-help-catch-up-with-apple.html

          
          
             Microsoft Corp.  is paying developers
to build mobile applications for its Windows Phone 7 system to
help it narrow a lead by rival products from  Apple Inc.  and
 Google Inc.   
 The company is providing financial incentives ranging from
free tools and test handsets to funds for software development
and marketing, said Todd Brix, a senior director at Microsoft
who works with app developers. In some cases, Microsoft is
providing revenue guarantees, and will make up the difference if
apps don’t sell as well as expected, he said.  
 Microsoft revamped its flagship mobile operating system to
recoup market share lost to Google and Apple. To win consumers,
the world’s largest software maker needs an  ample  supply of
games, music and navigation apps when handsets with Windows
Phone 7 reach stores later this year. Some developers may be
reluctant to sign up before they know Windows Phone will lure
enough customers, said  Kevin Burden , an analyst at ABI Research.  
 “In no way do they want to say, ‘Trust us, there will be
apps at some point,’” said Burden, who is based in Hopkinton,
Massachusetts. “If that means paying developers, so be it. It’s
a good strategy for them.”  
 While Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, has used
similar compensation programs for previous versions of its
mobile operating system, it’s devoting a larger sum this time,
Brix said. He declined to say how much Microsoft will spend.  
 ‘Open for Business’  
 “We are investing a lot to attract developers big and small
to Windows Phone 7 to let them understand what the opportunity
is and provide as many resources as we can to help them be
successful on our platform,” Brix said. “We’re open for business
and we want to work with them.”  
 Microsoft needs a hit to turn around its mobile business,
which Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  said this week
“missed a generation.”  
 Windows accounted for 6.9 percent of the worldwide
smartphone-software market in the first quarter, from 10.8
percent a year earlier, according ABI. Shipments of the iPhone
rose to 15.8 percent, while Android handsets had 9.9 percent.  
 At least four app makers have been approached by Microsoft
and offered financial incentives in cash, assistance with
development costs or revenue guarantees in exchange for having
apps ready at or near the release of Windows Phone 7, said five
people with knowledge of the matter. The people declined to be
named because the incentive terms are confidential.  
 Fewer Apps Than Apple  
 Other mobile software makers use different approaches to
entice programmers. Apple shares a portion of the revenue
generated when consumers buy apps from its online store. With
more than 51 million iPhones sold since its 2007 debut,
Cupertino, California-based Apple hasn’t offered payments like
Microsoft’s incentives to gain programs, the people said.  
 Apple spokeswoman  Trudy Muller  declined to comment.  
 Apple  has about 225,000 apps available for the iPhone,
while devices that run on Google’s  Android  operating system have
access to some 65,000.  
 Microsoft is starting from scratch in amassing apps for
Windows Phone 7. Its overhaul of the operating system was so
complete that programs developed for older Windows-based phones
won’t work on the new one. At the end of last year, Microsoft
had only 246 apps, according to ABI.  
 Microsoft  rose 31 cents to $25.44 at 4 p.m. New York time
on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have declined 17 percent
this year.  
 The company’s  deep pockets  and the likelihood it will keep
investing in Windows Phone 7 mean Microsoft may have an easier
time luring developers than a smaller company, Burden said.  
 ‘Unproven Prospect’  
 Developers expect Windows Phone 7 to be successful, three
of the people said. Yet it’s difficult to get companies to build
software for an operating system that doesn’t exist yet.  
 “There’s absolutely less enthusiasm today for Windows Phone
7 -- developers develop for the platform with largest number of
users because that’s where they can make the most money,” said
 Matt Rosoff , an analyst at Directions on Microsoft in Kirkland,
Washington. “Windows Phone 7 is an unproven prospect. It
definitely makes sense for Microsoft to prime the pump a little
bit.”  
 Last month, Microsoft scrapped an effort to sell its own
phone, less than two months after the device debuted. Sales of
the Kin social-networking phones fell short of the company’s
expectations, a person familiar with the matter said then.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.netdbass 2@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Microsoft Corp. CEO Steve Ballmer, speaks at the Microsoft Worldwide Partner Conference in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
