-- Triple-Digit Temperatures Blast Central U.S., Will Move to East Next Week
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-07-14T18:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/high-heat-baking-central-u-s-states-forecast-to-move-into-east-next-week.html

          
          
             Temperatures in Kansas and Oklahoma
may feel as hot as 115 degrees Fahrenheit (46 Celsius) as parts
of the central U.S. struggle with “dangerously” high readings,
according to the National Weather Service.  
 The heat will move east into the mid-Atlantic and Northeast
next week, said  Jim Rouiller , a senior energy meteorologist at
 Planalytics Inc.  in Berwyn, Pennsylvania. Utilities that were
pushed to record usage in a heat wave last week will be tested
again, Rouiller said by telephone.  
 “I worry about the grid systems because they are very
old,” Rouiller said. “This heat is going to be with us well
into August, punctuated by three- to four-day periods of intense
heat.”  
 An excessive heat warning, meaning “dangerously hot
temperatures” for at least several hours, was issued today for
most of Oklahoma as well as parts of Kansas, Texas and Arkansas,
according to the  weather service .  
 In addition, a heat advisory, warning that temperatures
when combined with humidity levels may feel as warm as 110
degrees, stretches from Louisiana to Minnesota, the weather
service said.  
 “Hot temperatures and high humidity will combine to create
a dangerous situation in which heat illnesses are likely,”
according to a weather service bulletin. “Drink plenty of
fluids, stay in an air-conditioned room, stay out of the sun and
check up on relatives and neighbors.”  
 Heat Wave  
 Temperature records were set across the U.S. last week, as
readings in New York’s Central Park hit 103 and passed 100 in
Newark for four days in a row. The heat wave forced utilities to
ask customers to cut back on usage and delayed rail traffic on
 Amtrak’s  Northeast corridor.  
 Global temperatures are on track to be the highest on
record, David Easterling, a climatologist with the  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration , said last week.  
 Temperatures in Tulsa, Oklahoma, are forecast to reach 97
today, which will feel like 114 when combined with humidity,
according to the weather service. St. Louis may reach 97 with a
heat index of 108; Wichita, Kansas, may hit 98 with an index
value of 110; and Oklahoma City may have 96 with an index of
110.  
 Corn Yields  
 The heat may keep corn harvests from reaching the records
that some analysts forecast at the beginning of the season, said
 Joel Widenor , vice president and director of agricultural
services at Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  
 Widenor said the heat will bring warm nights, which “the
corn doesn’t like.”  
 “There was a lot of expectation that we had to get a
record yield out of the crop, and we don’t see how that is going
to happen,” Widenor said by telephone. “It is not that there
is anything catastrophic, but there are issues here and there
that are going to eat away at that yield potential somewhat.”  
 Rouiller said there may be widespread health problems from
heat illnesses and air quality issues.  
 “People aren’t used to it and they are going to feel it,
and this is why when we get into those intense heat wave
conditions the emergency rooms get swamped,” Rouiller said.  
 Degree Days  
 Since June 1, the  cooling degree days  value has been 516 in
New York, or 154 above normal, and 617 in Philadelphia, or 227
above normal, according to weather service records.  
 Cooling degree days, calculated by subtracting a base of 65
degrees from the average daily temperature, is a value designed
to show energy demand, according to the weather service. The
higher the value, the warmer the weather, and thus the more
energy is probably consumed to cool homes and businesses.  
 In Atlanta, the value since June 1 has been 706, or 159
above normal; at Washington Reagan National Airport, 692 or 202
above normal; and in Houston, 841 or 122 above normal.  
 When cooling degree days are weighted for population, June
was the hottest on record, according to  Travis Hartman , a
meteorologist at MDA Federal Inc.’s EarthSat Energy Weather,
based in Rockville, Maryland.  
 “If temperatures continue in July, July will be near the
top if not the top one,” Hartman said. “For August, we have a
warm forecast, so we could have the warmest summer since 1950.”  
 Temperatures are expected to reach the 90s tomorrow in New
York, Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington, according to the
weather service. Readings of 90 are forecast for Providence,
Rhode Island, and Hartford, Connecticut, by the day after
tomorrow.  
 An excessive heat watch was issued for the Philadelphia
area from tomorrow afternoon through July 16.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        