-- Highest Premium Since '08 Won't Keep Thornburg From Brazil Consumer Stocks
-- Alexander Cuadros
-- 2010-07-14T21:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/highest-premium-since-08-won-t-keep-thornburg-from-brazil-consumer-stocks.html

          
          
             Natura Cosmeticos SA , Brazil’s
biggest cosmetics maker, trades at the highest premium to the
Bovespa index since 2008. Thornburg Investment Management’s
 Lewis Kaufman  says he’s been buying as economic growth picks up.  
 “Is there still value in consumer stocks?” said  Kaufman ,
who helps oversee about $55 billion at Thornburg in Santa Fe,
New Mexico. “I think there is. The consumer story in Brazil is
compelling. Natura is an excellent vehicle for that.”  
 Companies that stand to benefit most from rising wages and
lending in Latin America’s largest economy are climbing this
year even as the 65-stock Bovespa falls.  Lojas Renner SA  of
Porto Alegre, the nation’s biggest publicly traded clothing
retailer, has rallied 31 percent, the measure’s largest
increase.  Souza Cruz SA , based in Rio de Janeiro and Brazil’s
No. 1 tobacco company, has risen 21 percent while Natura has
advanced 16 percent. The Bovespa is down 7.5 percent this year.  
 The International Monetary Fund raised its forecast last
week for Brazil’s growth in 2010 to 7.1 percent from 5.5 percent
in April after the economy expanded 9 percent in the first
quarter, the most since 1995. Lending by Brazilian banks has
 doubled  in the past three years to 1.5 trillion reais ($849.8
billion). Consumers may boost spending as loans expand by an
estimated 20 percent this year,  Altamir Lopes , the central
bank’s head of economic research, said June 23.  
 Natura and Renner both rose to a record today in Sao Paulo
trading. Natura jumped 4.7 percent, the most since February, to
42.10 reais while Renner advanced the most in nearly two months,
gaining 4.5 percent to 51.40 reais. Souza Cruz fell 0.4 percent
to 70.13 reais as the Bovespa lost 0.3 percent.  
 Strong Economy  
 Carlos Andre , who oversees the equivalent of $185 billion
as chief investment officer of  Banco do Brasil SA ’s asset
management unit in Rio de Janeiro, said he’s been buying
consumer-related stocks after Europe’s debt crisis and China’s
steps to cool its economy made commodities producers less
attractive.  
 “I see the fundamentals in the Brazilian economy as solid,
which indicates a better environment for companies that get
their earnings in the domestic market,” Andre said. While
commodities exporters still have potential, “companies with a
more domestic flavor might have a better performance,” he said.  
 Natura, a Sao Paulo-based maker of lipsticks, rouges and
perfumes, has increased net income year-over-year for eight
quarters and said on April 28 that first-quarter sales rose 22
percent to 1.01 billion reais. The company  trades  at 26.4 times
reported earnings, compared with an average ratio of 13.6 for
Bovespa stocks. The difference is the widest since December
2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Higher Retail Sales  
 Officials for Natura declined to comment for this story,
said an outside spokesman, who declined to be identified in
accordance with company policy. Natura is scheduled to report
second-quarter earnings on July 21.  
 Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, and state
oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , both based in Rio, are
leading declines in the Bovespa this year on falling metals and
oil prices.  
 While  retail sales  climbed 15.7 percent in March from a
year earlier, the most since at least 2001, they failed to meet
economists’ forecasts in the two following months, a sign higher
borrowing costs may curb spending. In May, sales expanded 10.2
percent from a year earlier, the national statistics agency said
yesterday. The central bank has lifted the benchmark interest
rate to 10.25 percent this year from a record low 8.75 percent
to slow inflation.  
 Too Expensive?  
 Consumer companies aren’t attractive at current levels
because the rally already reflects their  earnings  potential,
said  Eduardo Favrin , who helps oversee $2.5 billion as head of
equity for HSBC Global Asset Management’s Brazil unit.  
 “I’d rather buy a stock that looks cheap,” Favrin said by
phone from Sao Paulo. “Banks are a sector where you can buy
into the domestic consumer story.”  
 Favrin has been buying financial stocks including  Itau
Unibanco Holding SA , which trades at 15.2 times earnings, near
the lowest level in a year, and traded at a discount to the
Bovespa as recently as May.  
 Surging consumer credit and rising incomes will outweigh
higher valuations, said  Ed Kuczma , an emerging markets analyst
at Van Eck Associates. The New York-based firm, which manages
$21 billion, bought shares of Blumenau-based apparel maker Cia.
Hering as it rose to the biggest premium compared with the
Bovespa in almost two years.  
 ‘Crisis Never Happened’  
 “In terms of domestic consumption, it’s almost like the
crisis never happened in Brazil,” Kuczma said. “There are
probably more attractive companies and sectors at a  valuation 
level. We’re still comfortable.”  
 President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva, who leaves office in
January, has helped lift 19 million people out of poverty and
more than doubled the monthly minimum wage since his presidency
began in 2003. In the same period, Brazilians’ average monthly
 pay  has risen 35 percent to about 1,400 reais, according to the
national statistics agency.  
 The growth in Brazilians’ disposable income is unlikely to
slow, according to Thornburg’s Kaufman.  
 “You’ve got a much healthier and more robust consumer
story in Brazil than you have in other parts of the world,” he
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Brazil consumer company premium won't dissuade investors  
                       
                         
                           Paulo Fridman/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A woman exits the Renner clothing store at a shopping mall in Sao Paulo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A woman exits the Renner clothing store at a shopping mall in Sao Paulo. Photographer: Paulo Fridman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
