-- Illinois `Fiscal Malpractice' Widens Yield Gap in $900 Million Bond Offer
-- Darrell Preston
-- 2010-07-14T13:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/illinois-fiscal-malpractice-widens-yield-gap-in-900-million-bond-offer.html

          
          
             Illinois , whose comptroller said the
state is in the worst financial position in its history, may
face a risk premium that is about 11 percent above what it paid
last month when it sells $900 million of Build America Bonds
today.  
 The state, selling the federally subsidized taxable debt to
pay for transportation and various capital projects, borrowed
$8.7 billion in the fiscal year ended June 30, the most since it
sold $10 billion to fund its pension plan contribution in fiscal
2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Illinois is authorized to borrow $3.9 billion in the fiscal
year that began July 1, including the Build Americas and $1.3
billion of short-term debt to cover revenue shortfalls forecast
later this month. The state plans to sell $1.4 billion of debt
backed by payments under a legal settlement with tobacco
companies and will seek approval from state lawmakers to borrow
$3.7 billion to cover its pension contribution.  
 “It’s like the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico because the
money just keeps spilling,” said  Miles White,  chairman of
Abbott Park, Illinois-based  Abbott Laboratories , who is pushing
the state to balance its budget as chairman of  Civic Committee 
of the Commercial Club of Chicago. “We have to stop it.”  
 The state’s budget deficit combined with a glut of bonds
may drive up its borrowing cost, said  Gary Pollack , who helps
oversee $12 billion as managing director of fixed income for
Deutsche Bank AG’s Private Wealth Management unit in New York.  
 Risk Premium  
 Today’s taxable sale may price at about 330 basis points
above 30-year Treasury bonds, about 10 basis points narrower
than indications yesterday, according to a person familiar with
the preliminary pricing. The latest spread would be an 11
percent widening over Build America Bonds the state sold last
month at 297 basis points above Treasuries. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point. Citigroup Inc. is managing the offering.  
 The average yield on Build America debt was about  199 basis
points  above 30-year Treasuries yesterday, according to a Wells
Fargo index.  
 “Illinois has replaced California as the new example of
fiscal malpractice for the muni market,” said Pollack. “They
passed their budget, but there are still questions about the
state’s pension funding.”  
 Illinois ended fiscal 2010 on June 30 “in the worst fiscal
position in its history,” Comptroller  Daniel Hynes  said in a
 report . The state’s backlog of unpaid bills rose to $4.7 billion
from $2.8 billion a year earlier, Hynes said. The state’s
general fund balance fell to negative $4.7 billion, the lowest
level in the state’s history. Hynes declined to comment through
spokeswoman Carol Knowles.  
 ‘Strategic Borrowing’  
 Without the borrowing, the state would have to cut services
too deeply, said  David Vaught , Governor  Pat Quinn’ s budget
director.                    
 “You can’t afford to decimate the social safety net or
fire all the two-year teachers,” meaning the most recent
recruits, said Vaught in a phone interview. “You have to use
strategic borrowing until times get better.”  
 The causes of the state’s deficit have been building for
more than a decade as the state increased spending on Medicaid
and other services and ignored its pension liabilities, said
Vaught, who took over last year when Quinn came into office.
Since 2006, total state spending has risen to $81 billion from
$55 billion, according to comptroller records.  
 Unpaid Bills  
 As revenue started to decline, deficits and the backlog of
unpaid bills began rising as state officials failed to cut
spending fast enough to balance the budget, said Jim Nowlan, a
senior fellow at the  Institute of Government and Public Affairs 
in Urbana, Illinois. At the same time the state has failed to
keep up with funding its pension plan.  
 Corporate income-tax revenue fell 20.5 percent last fiscal
year, while sales tax collections dropped 6.9 percent and
personal income taxes declined 7.7 percent, Hynes said in the
report.  
 “There’s no political will to do the right thing,” said
Pat Brady, chairman of the Illinois Republican Party, which is
the minority party. “It’s all about doing what is politically
expedient.”  
 To address its  budget crisis , state officials need to cut
spending, especially by finding ways to reduce their commitment
to employee pensions, said White, the Abbott chairman. Even if a
commitment to cutting spending is demonstrated, they may still
need to raise taxes to help eliminate the deficit, he said.  
 “The state’s budget has been mismanaged for years,” White
said. “We’ve been spending more than we’ve been taking in and
we’re borrowing to cover current costs, which is silly.”  
 Illinois will take the steps to cut and reallocate
spending, Quinn said in an interview at the  National Governors
Association  meeting July 10.  
 “I will navigate the state through the toughest budget
it’s had in years,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “It’s like the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico because the money just keeps spilling,” said Miles White, chairman of Abbott Park, Illinois-based Abbott Laboratories. Photographer: Frank Polich/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
