-- Time Warner Cable, Verizon Push to End TV Blackout Threats
-- Kelly Riddell
-- 2010-07-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/time-warner-cable-verizon-push-to-end-tv-blackout-threats.html

          
          
             Time Warner Cable Inc.  and  Verizon
Communications Inc. , competitors for pay-television services,
joined forces today in a group urging federal regulators to
change the rules allowing broadcasters to cut their signals
during contract disputes.  
 The new American Television Alliance was created as New
York-based  Time Warner Cable  attempts to reach a new agreement
with  Walt Disney Co. , which owns the ABC television network.
Other members include Dallas-based  AT&T Inc. , the largest U.S.
telephone company,  DirecTV , the largest U.S. satellite-TV
provider, as well as cable networks and public interest groups.  
 “We’re not saying programmers shouldn’t get fair
compensation for their content, it’s just the way the rules are
written today hold the consumer hostage,” said  Alex Dudley , a
spokesman for Time Warner Cable. “If a diverse group of
competitors can come together to form a coalition like this, it
means that something is clearly broken.”  
 Absent from the coalition is  Comcast Corp. , the largest
U.S. cable-TV company. The Philadelphia-based company is seeking
government approval for its proposed takeover of  General
Electric Co. ’s NBC Universal.  
 Dennis Wharton , a spokesman for the National Association of
Broadcasters, the Washington-based trade group, said broadcast-
network programs are popular with viewers, and disputes with
pay-television services are rare.  
 “Pay TV providers built their businesses on the backs of
local broadcast signals, and broadcasters deserve fair
compensation for the most-watched TV programming,” Wharton
said.  
 FCC Request  
 Several members of the pay-TV group, including Time Warner
Cable,  Cablevision Systems Corp. , El Segundo, California-based
DirecTV, and New York-based Verizon, whose Fios system competes
with cable and satellite companies, had asked the  Federal
Communications Commission  in March to consider requiring
broadcasters to maintain their signals during disputes and to
require arbitration when the two sides can’t agree on the fees
for what is known as retransmission consent.  
 “Many of the broadcasters are demanding excessive
increases in fees,” said  Tom Cullen , executive vice president
of  Dish Network Corp. , an Englewood, Colorado-based satellite-TV
provider and another member of the group. “We just have to
fight this battle to keep consumer prices reasonable.”  
 The alliance, which is launching a  website  and advertising
campaign, also plans to ask members of Congress to urge the FCC
to examine the need to change the rules.  
 ‘War’ of Attrition  
 The broadcasters’ association, whose members include Disney
and the Fox network, has urged the FCC to reject the petition.
Such proposals would give pay-TV providers “a financial
incentive to eschew meaningful negotiations and engage in a war
of economic attrition with local stations,” the broadcasters’
group said  June 4 .  
 Bethpage, New York-based Cablevision faces negotiations
later this year with New York-based  News Corp. , which owns Fox.
Burbank, California-based Disney pulled ABC programming from
Cablevision on March 7, blacking out the first 13 minutes of the
Oscars telecast for more than 3 million customers in New York,
Connecticut and New Jersey, until the two companies reached a
preliminary agreement.  
 Zenia Mucha , a Disney spokeswoman, and  David Fish , a
spokesman for Verizon, didn’t return calls seeking comment.  
 Broadcasters have said they should be compensated for
supplying their programs, which are the most watched on
television. In the past, the networks traded those rights to
gain distribution for new cable channels, such as Disney’s
ESPN2, or higher fees for existing cable networks. Pay-TV
companies have balked at paying for broadcast programs because
viewers can watch those shows free on over-the-air networks.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ivan Seidenberg, chief executive officer of Verizon Communications Inc.. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
