-- Times Square Would-Be Bomber Vowed Revenge in Video, Al-Arabiya Reports
-- Chris Dolmetsch
-- 2010-07-14T16:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/times-square-bomber-shazhad-vowed-revenge-in-video-al-arabiya-reports.html

          
          
             Faisal Shahzad, who pleaded guilty
last month to trying to explode a car bomb in New York’s Times
Square, says in a video that he planned the attack as revenge
for the U.S. war in Afghanistan, Al-Arabiya television reported.  
 Shahzad is dressed in traditional tribal clothes and sits
with an assault rifle in the video, which was made before the
attempted May 1 attack, the Dubai-based Arabic-language
television  network  reported on its website. The network
broadcast the tape today.  
 In the video, Shahzad praises Baitullah Mehsud, the
Pakistani Taliban leader killed in a U.S. drone strike in August
of last year, and Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the founder of al-Qaeda
in Iraq who died at the hands of U.S. led-troops in 2006, as
martyrs, Al-Arabiya said.  
 “The attack on the United States will be a revenge for all
the mujahedeen and oppressed Muslims,” Shahzad said in the
tape, according to Al-Arabiya. “Eight years have passed since
the Afghanistan war and you shall see how the Muslim war has
just begun and how Islam will spread across the world.”  
 Shahzad pleaded guilty on June 21 to 10 terrorism-related
charges for the attack, including attempted use of a weapon of
mass destruction. He faces a mandatory life term at his
sentencing, scheduled for Oct. 5.  
 Shahzad told U.S. District Judge  Miriam Cedarbaum  on June
21 that he wanted to plead guilty “a hundred times over,”
according to a transcript, “because until the hour the U.S.
pulls its forces from Iraq and Afghanistan and stops the drone
strikes in Somalia and Yemen and in Pakistan and stops the
occupation of Muslim lands and stops killing the Muslims and
stops reporting the Muslims to its government, we will be
attacking U.S.”  
 The case is U.S. v. Shahzad, 10-00928, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        