-- IMF Says Japanese Fiscal Plans Need Specifics to Be Credible
-- Sandrine Rastello
-- 2010-07-14T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/imf-says-japan-s-fiscal-plan-would-be-more-credible-if-details-provided.html

          
          
             The International Monetary Fund said
Japan’s plan to balance its budget in 10 years would be more
credible if the government gave specifics on how it will boost
revenue, including details on a sales tax increase.  
 Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s fiscal strategy outlined last
month “will only become fully credible once details of the
necessary revenue measures are agreed on including the timing
and scale of a consumption tax increase,” the IMF staff wrote
in a supplement to its annual review of Japan’s economy.  
 Kan, who took office five weeks ago, stoked voter
resentment by calling for a debate on whether to raise the 5
percent sales tax and lost control of parliament’s upper house
in July 11 elections. The IMF report recommended a “modest”
increase of the sales levy as part of fiscal adjustments.  
 While welcoming the strategy announced by Kan as “an
important step forward,” the IMF staff said a plan to stabilize
the world’s largest debt by 2020 leaves the country vulnerable
to shocks for a longer time than if the country adopted measures
recommended by the Washington-based lender.  
 The government’s fiscal strategy released June 22 plans to
restrict bond sales. Under the plan, ministries must follow a
so-called “pay-as-you-go” principle when compiling their
budgets. The IMF praised the move, adding it still “sees a need
for a cap on public debt to anchor expectations.”  
 Japan’s gross debt is 215 percent of its gross domestic
product, according to the IMF, which forecasts growth of 2.4
percent this year and 1.8 percent next year in the world’s
second-largest economy.  
 Yen Value  
 The fund said its assessment of the fiscal plan, which was
announced by the government after the IMF prepared its report,
“doesn’t alter the thrust of the staff appraisal” of Japan’s
economy.  
 The report mentions that the current value of the yen is
“consistent with medium-term fundamentals,” and that the
effective exchange rate was “estimated close to its medium-term
equilibrium value” as of March.  
 In a note following an internal debate on the report, the
IMF executive board warned that “carry trade activities and
their impact on the exchange rate would need to be monitored
closely.”  
 The board’s report also says that the Bank of Japan could
help support the recovery and reduce deflation pressures,
including through purchasing a wider range of assets and by
extending the size and maturity of its operations to supply
funds to the economy.  
 As part of the central bank’s “proposal to support growth,
consideration could be given to improving access to credit for
small and medium-sized enterprises,” the IMF staff said.  
 Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and his board will
keep the main interest rate at 0.1 percent and forgo fresh
liquidity injections tomorrow, according to all 16 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Shirakawa said last week that the
economy is “likely to stay on a recovery trend” and domestic
demand is poised to rise.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Naoto Kan, Japan's prime minister and president of the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ), speaks during a news conference. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Martin Schulz, senior economist at Fujitsu Research Institute in Tokyo, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about Japan's politics and implications for the economy.
     Japan’s Prime Minister Naoto Kan lost control of parliament’s upper house, undermining legislative efforts to cut the world’s largest public debt and creating the possibility of a third leadership change in a year. The ruling Democratic Party of Japan won 44 seats, compared with 51 for the opposition Liberal Democratic Party, according to results compiled by public broadcaster NHK. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
