-- U.S. Import Prices Fell in June by Most Since January 2009 on Oil's Slide
-- Bob Willis
-- 2010-07-14T13:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/import-prices-fell-in-june-by-the-most-since-january-2009-on-oil-s-slide.html

          
          
             Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. fell in June by the most since January 2009, led by
declines in costs of oil, business equipment and consumer goods.  
 The 1.3 percent decline in the  import price index  was more
than projected and followed a revised 0.5 percent drop in May,
Labor Department figures showed today in Washington. Economists
forecast a 0.4 percent decrease, according to the Bloomberg News
survey median. Prices  excluding petroleum  fell 0.5 percent, the
biggest decline since March 2009.  
 Commodity prices  have fallen on concerns that European
deficit-cutting measures and Chinese efforts to slow growth will
temper the global expansion. Limited wage pressures in the U.S.
have enabled companies to keep a lid on prices, which may allow
the Federal Reserve to keep its benchmark interest rate close to
zero into 2011 to help fuel economic growth.  
 “Core inflation is more likely to slow than accelerate in
the next six months, given how much slack there is in the
economy and now the strength of the dollar is only putting more
downward pressure through import prices,” said  Jim O’Sullivan ,
global chief economist at MF Global Ltd. in New York.  
 Economists forecast the drop would follow a previously
reported 0.6 percent decline for May, according to the Bloomberg
survey. Estimates of the 48 economists surveyed ranged from a
gain of 0.5 percent to a decline of 1 percent.  
 Retail Sales Fall  
 A separate report from the Commerce Department showed
retail sales in June fell 0.5 percent in June. Stock-index
futures declined after the reports. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fell 0.1 percent to 1,088.80 at 9 a.m. in New York.  
 Compared with a year earlier, import prices rose 4.5
percent, less than the median forecast of a 5.3 percent gain in
the Bloomberg survey. Year-over-year gains in costs of imports
have slowed since a recent peak of 11.4 percent in January.  
 The cost of imported  petroleum  fell 4.4 percent in June
from a month earlier. Prices were up 11.7 percent compared with
a year earlier. Excluding oil, import prices rose 3.1 percent
from June 2009.  
 Excluding all fuels , import prices decreased 0.6 percent
last month. They were up 2.8 percent compared with a year
earlier.  
 The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. The department is scheduled to
release the producer price index tomorrow and the consumer price
gauge on the following day. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast a 0.1 percent decline in consumer prices, the third
consecutive drop.  
 Rate Forecast  
 Economists surveyed by Bloomberg in the first week of July
forecast the Fed won’t begin raising its benchmark rate until
the second quarter of 2011. That compares to last month’s
forecast for a quarter-point increase in the first quarter of
next year.  
 Prices of imported food decreased 1.7 percent last month,
compared with a 1.3 percent rise in May. They were up 6.2
percent from a year earlier.  
 Prices of  imported automobiles , parts and engines fell 0.2
percent from May and increased 0.3 percent over the past 12
months.  
 Costs for imported consumer goods excluding autos dropped
0.4 percent last month, the most since March 2009, while prices
of capital goods decreased 0.3 percent.  
 Industrial Supplies  
 Imported industrial supply costs excluding fuel fell 1.5
percent.  
 Alcoa Inc ., the largest U.S. aluminum producer, this week
reported second-quarter sales and profit that beat analysts’
estimates and forecast higher global demand for the metal, which
may signal broader economic growth.  
 Aluminum for delivery in three months  increased 39 percent
on average in the second quarter from a year earlier on the
London Metal Exchange. The price was still down 15 percent since
March 31 and more than 40 percent from the July 2008 high,
before the global recession cut demand.  
 “Undoubtedly we are not seeing the environment we’ve seen
in the past, but we see the environment getting better and
continuously moving in the right direction,” Chief Executive
Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  said on a conference call.  
 Cheaper Chinese Goods  
 The cost of goods from China decreased 0.3 percent, while
those from Japan rose 0.1 percent. Goods from Latin America
dropped 1.7 percent and those from the European Union fell 0.9
percent. Both were the biggest declines since December 2008.
Prices of Canadian imports dropped 1.6 percent while imports
from Mexico were down 0.8 percent.  
 The dollar has risen 12 percent against the euro this year
as concern emerged that Greece and possibly other countries in
the European Union may default on their debt. A stronger U.S.
currency will help hold down the price of imports from the
region in coming months.  
 U.S. export prices decreased 0.2 percent after rising 0.6
percent in May. Prices of farm exports fell 0.1 percent, while
those of non-farm goods decreased 0.2 percent.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        