-- India's Inflation Accelerated to 10.55% in June, Increasing Rate Pressure
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-07-14T12:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/india-s-inflation-accelerates-to-10-55-in-june-adding-to-rate-pressure.html

          
          
             India’s inflation accelerated in
June, increasing pressure on the central bank to raise interest
rates for a second time this month.  
 The benchmark wholesale-price  index  jumped 10.55 percent
from a year earlier, after a 10.16 percent gain in May, the
commerce ministry said in a statement in New Delhi today. The
inflation reading for April was raised to 11.23 percent, a 19-
month high, according to the statement.  
 Reserve Bank of India Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  is facing
Asia’s fastest pace of inflation, which he says is a tax on the
poor in a nation where almost three-quarters of the people live
on less than $2 a day. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s top
economic advisers yesterday signaled Subbarao may have to act at
the bank’s July 27 policy meeting.  
 “Today’s data shows they still have more work to do,”
Brian Jackson, an emerging-markets strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada in Hong Kong, said in e-mailed comments. “Indian
inflation has been bouncing around 10 to 11 percent for five
months now and there is a real risk that this will impact
inflation expectations.”  
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond rose one
basis point to 7.63 percent at the 5:30 p.m. close in Mumbai.
The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  fell 0.3 percent and
the rupee gained 0.2 percent to 46.69 against the dollar.  
 Asia’s Fastest  
 Consumer prices paid by industrial and farm workers in
India are increasing at almost 14 percent, the most among 17
countries tracked by Bloomberg in the Asia Pacific, including
China and South Korea, on growing consumer demand and as a
drought last year reduced farm production.  
 If inflation persists at more than 10 percent, “some
action” by the Reserve Bank is required, Chakravarthy
Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory
Council, said in New Delhi yesterday.  
 Montek Singh Ahluwalia, deputy chairman of the Planning
Commission, said the central bank should make “whatever
adjustments it feels necessary” as inflation above 10 percent
is “not acceptable.”  
 Subbarao, in an unscheduled decision on July 2, boosted the
central bank’s benchmark reverse repurchase and the  repurchase
rates  by a quarter-point for a third time since mid-March. The
reverse repurchase rate is 4 percent the repurchase rate is 5.5
percent.  
 Political Pressure  
 Prime Minister Singh’s government is facing criticism from
the opposition for failing to check prices. On July 5, the
political parties organized a nationwide strike to highlight the
issue. Flights were canceled, companies shut offices and taxis
stayed off the roads in major Indian cities that day.  
 Inflation may accelerate after Singh on June 25 allowed
state-run refiners including Indian Oil Corp. to raise prices of
gasoline and diesel in a bid to cut fuel subsidies and narrow
the budget deficit from a 16-year high.  
 The fuel-price increase will add about a percentage point
to the wholesale-price inflation rate, the Reserve Bank
estimates.  
 The Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation, a dairy
products maker, raised milk prices by as much as 2 rupees (4.3
cents) a liter in New Delhi last week.  
 “We were left with no choice but to hike prices as
transportation costs have jumped,” R.S. Sodhi, chairman of
Gujarat Cooperative, said in a telephone interview yesterday
from Anand in the western state of Gujarat.  
 Singh’s government is relying on lower food prices this
year to cool inflation. The meteorological department forecasts
the June-September monsoon rains, the main source of irrigation
in India, will be sufficient for farming.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        