-- Indian Oil, State-Run Refiners to Review Gasoline Prices Once a Month
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-07-14T14:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/indian-oil-state-run-refiners-to-review-gasoline-prices-once-a-month.html

          
          
             Indian Oil Corp.  and other state-run
refiners will review gasoline prices once a month after the
government freed rates of the auto fuel to reduce subsidies.  
 The refiners, including  Bharat Petroleum Corp.  and
 Hindustan Petroleum Corp. , will revise prices in “mutual
consultation,”  Serangulam V. Narasimhan , finance director at
Indian Oil, said in New Delhi today. “Every month we will
review the need to revise prices.”  
 Gasoline prices were freed from state control in June,
boosting profitability of refiners that sell fuels below cost to
help curb inflation. The government, which partly compensates
the refiners, will lower its subsidy bill, helping Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  reduce the fiscal deficit to 5.5 percent
of gross domestic product this financial year from an estimated
6.9 percent last year.  
 Indian Oil  shares  fell 1.1 percent to 389.25 rupees at
close in Mumbai. The stock has gained 27 percent this year
compared with a 2.7 percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive
Index . Bharat Petroleum was little changed and Hindustan
Petroleum declined 1.7 percent.  
 The state-run refiners will change gasoline prices together
for an initial three months, Narasimhan said. The mechanism will
be reviewed after three months depending on competition, he said,
without giving details.  
 Oil for August delivery fell as much as 70 cents to $76.45
a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange and traded for $76.55 as of 1:29 p.m. London time. The
contract closed at $78.86 on June 25, when India freed gasoline
prices.  
 No Immediate Change  
 “Current retail prices are based on crude at about $74 a
barrel and so we don’t need to revise petrol prices
immediately,” Narasimhan said.  
 A panel led by Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  increased
diesel prices and said the fuel will eventually be freed from
state control. The group of ministers also raised prices of
cooking gas and kerosene, which remain under government control.  
 A government-appointed panel headed by Kirit Parikh, a
former member of the nation’s Planning Commission, recommended
in February that India free gasoline and diesel prices from
state control and increase kerosene and cooking gas rates.  
 Fuel subsidies given by the government to state refiners
declined to 260 billion rupees ($5.5 billion) in the year ended
March 31 as oil dropped from a record in July 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        