-- Inhaled Insulin May Preserve Memory in Alzheimer Patients, Study Shows
-- Elizabeth Lopatto
-- 2010-07-14T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/inhaled-insulin-may-preserve-memory-in-alzheimer-s-patients-study-finds.html

          
          
             Daily doses of inhaled insulin
preserved the memory of some patients suffering from mild
dementia or  Alzheimer’s disease  and helped them better manage
the daily tasks of living, researchers reported.  
 People with early-stage Alzheimer’s who inhaled  insulin 
twice a day for four months showed improved ability in tasks
such as dressing or balancing their checkbooks. There was no
improvement on two other measures of mental function for
Alzheimer’s, according to the research. Patients getting
placebos had a decline in memory and ability to function.  
 The study of 104 patients, the largest yet to test
insulin’s effect on mental abilities of people with dementia,
was presented today at the  International  Conference on
Alzheimer’s Disease in Honolulu. Patients used a device called
ViaNase, made by privately held  Kurve Technology Inc.  Impaired
ability to make or use insulin has been linked to risk of
Alzheimer’s in several studies, said  Suzanne Craft , a professor
of psychiatry at the University of Washington in Seattle.  
 “Insulin plays an important role in several aspects of
brain function,” Craft, who also serves as director of the
 geriatric research center  of the VA Puget Sound Health Care
System, said in a July 9 telephone interview. “If insulin can’t
play these roles, the stage is set for the development of
Alzheimer’s.”  
 ViaNase is the only device proven to reach the olfactory
region in the brain, said Kurve’s chief executive officer  Marc Giroux .  
 No Low-Blood Sugar  
 The inhaler allows insulin to make its way to the brain and
not to the lungs or limbs, Craft said. For this reason, none of
the patients had episodes of low-blood sugar, which happens to
some diabetic patients who take too much insulin.  
 Kurve, maker of the device used in the trial, is seeking a
partner to test insulin plus ViaNase for commercial use, Giroux
said. Other tests, besides those done by Craft, aren’t ongoing,
he said. Kurve, based in Lynnwood, Washington, is in discussions
with pharmaceutical companies. Giroux declined to identify them.  
 Population studies have shown an association between
diabetes, a disease that limits people’s ability to make or use
insulin, and Alzheimer’s, Craft said. Insulin is known to help
maintain the health of the brain’s synapses, which are the
points of connection between its cells.  
 “The idea of using insulin is based on much work in type 2
diabetics that shows that excess insulin in the blood in midlife
is associated with later-life Alzheimer’s,”  David Knopman , a
professor of neurology at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester,
Minnesota, said in an e-mail.  
 Amyloid-Beta  
 The same enzyme that breaks down insulin is involved in the
degradation of a protein called  amyloid-beta peptide  that is
thought to be a central player in the development of Alzheimer’s
disease, Knopman said.  
 For these reasons, “the rationale for intranasal insulin
is a very reasonable one,” he said. While praising Craft’s work
and her current study, he said the four-month duration and
relatively small number of subjects made it “too short and too
underpowered to draw any strong conclusions.”  
 In the current study, patients were given inhaled insulin
after breakfast and dinner at a total dose of 20 or 40
milligrams a day. Patients in the control group took two sniffs
of a placebo each day. The patients and their caregivers, as
well as their doctors, were unaware of what each person was
given.  
 Tests  
 The patients were administered tests measuring their
memory, use of language and attention. Those who took placebos
scored 10 percent lower at the end of the four months than they
did at the beginning while the patients taking insulin showed no
change.  
 Caregivers asked to rate the patients’ ability to carry out
everyday tasks reported a 10 percent improvement among those who
sniffed insulin and a 10 percent decline in those who didn’t.
Insulin inhalers didn’t show any improvement on two other
measures of Alzheimer’s severity reflecting memory, learning and
daily living activity.  
 Some of the patients also had brain scans and spinal taps
so biomarkers in their spinal fluid could be measured. Patients
on insulin and in the control group showed differences in the
amount of glucose metabolism in the brain and levels of some
markers linked to Alzheimer’s.  
 Craft said her team is now planning a larger, longer study.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Waters in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        