-- Intel Cash Machine May Print $12 Billion on PC Demand
-- Katie Hoffmann
-- 2010-07-14T20:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/intel-s-forecast-beats-estimates-adding-to-evidence-economy-is-rebounding.html

          
          
             Intel Corp.  increased its cash pile
by $2 billion last quarter selling the fingernail-sized chips
that run the world’s personal computers, underscoring the
technology industry’s ability to wring profit at an
unprecedented pace.  
 The biggest chipmaker boosted its earnings forecast for the
year to a record yesterday, calling for the gross margin to
widen to 66 percent. That means Intel’s free cash flow may reach
$12 billion in 2010 and $13.5 billion next year, according to
 Patrick Wang  at Wedbush Securities in New York.  
 “Intel’s a cash machine,” Wang said in an interview.
“Not only are they a nice defensive name in the market today,
but it’s amazing how they generate cash.”  
 Intel shares rose 35 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $21.36 at 4
p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, fueling gains in
technology stocks. Microsoft Corp., the world’s largest software
maker, and computer maker Dell Inc. also advanced.  ASML Holding
NV , which posted profit that beat analysts’ predictions,
increased 3 percent in Amsterdam.  
 Gains at Santa Clara, California-based Intel stem from its
ability to run factories more efficiently, so as demand from
companies buying new computers picked up,  Intel  got bigger
benefits. Gross margin, or the percentage of sales remaining
after deducting production costs, widened to 67 percent from 51
percent a year earlier.  
 Profitability  
 Other technology companies are boosting profit or cash to
records, helping them build war chests that make it easier to
expand operations, make acquisitions and begin hiring workers
after reductions in recent years.  
 In the first three months of the year,  Google Inc. ’s cash
and short-term investments increased by $2 billion to $26.5
billion, its highest ever.  Oracle Corp. , the world’s second-
biggest software maker, reported record fourth-quarter  operating
income  in June.  
 Planned job cuts in the technology industry fell 70 percent
in the first half of 2010, with companies announcing the
elimination of 35,375 workers, down from 118,108 a year earlier,
according to Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc.  
 The cash Intel generates will allow it to make acquisitions
and expand in faster-growth areas, Wang said. The company may
also reward shareholders with a higher  dividend , he said.  
 Intel Plans  
 Intel’s executives have said they’re considering using some
of the cash on deals that would help get them into new markets,
such mobile-phone chips.  
 Chief Financial Officer  Stacy Smith  said he’s opposed to
buying companies for their revenue alone. The purchase of Wind
River Systems Inc. for $884 million last year is a template for
the size and type of deal Intel wants to make, he said.  
 In the latest quarter, the company boosted  cash and short-
term investments  by about $2 billion to $18.3 billion. Wang, who
 rates  the stock “outperform” and owns it himself, estimated
2009 free cash flow at about $11 billion.  
 Intel raised its forecast for 2010 gross margin from a
previous prediction of 64 percent. For the current period, Intel
projected a margin of 67 percent.  
 The company also is predicting wider  profit margins  for the
longer run. Intel’s Smith has said he expects the gross margin
to range between 55 percent and 65 percent in coming years. That
compares with 50 percent to 60 percent over the past decade.  
 IBM, Google  
 Intel kicked off three weeks of earnings reports by the
largest U.S. technology companies, including International
Business Machines Corp.,  Google Inc.  and Microsoft. Intel’s
dominance of the market for microprocessors, the main component
in computers, makes it a barometer of industry demand.  
 While consumers led the initial recovery from the
recession, businesses are now spending more too, Intel Chief
Executive Officer  Paul Otellini  said yesterday. That may allay
the risk of renewed slowdown.  
 “All of a sudden, you start questioning the double-dip,”
said  Pat Becker Jr. , a fund manager at Becker Capital in
Portland, Oregon, which owns 1.5 million Intel shares as part of
$2.2 billion under management. “It clearly makes some of the
doubts that had crept into the tech sector vanish.”  
 Intel predicted that third-quarter  sales  will rise to $11.6
billion, plus or minus $400 million. Analysts had estimated
$10.9 billion on average, according to a  Bloomberg survey .  
 Inventory Concerns Ebb  
 Before Intel’s earnings report, investors were concerned
that the industry had built up excess stockpiles of computer
chips. Otellini said yesterday that demand is strong enough to
ward off a glut.  
 “We are very comfortable with the level of inventory,” he
said.  
 Corporate customers are replacing their old desktop and
notebook machines, spurring demand for chips, Intel said. At the
same time, Internet businesses, such as  Google  and Facebook
Inc., are ordering more servers for their data centers.  
 That bodes well for other technology companies, said
 Michael Shinnick , who helps manage $7.5 billion at Wasatch
Advisors Inc. in South Bend, Indiana.  
 “There is a powerful upgrade cycle that is going on within
the PC and server space, and we’d expect to hear similar things
from Microsoft and PC manufacturers,” said Shinnick, whose firm
owns 1.7 million Intel shares. “Technology demand is stronger
than the overall pace of the recovery.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Intel Chief Executive Officer Paul Otellini. Photographer: Jay Mallin/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Doug Freedman, an analyst at Gleacher & Co. Inc., discusses the outlook for Intel Corp. and the semiconductor industry.
     Freedman talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Intel Corp. Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li from Santa Clara, California, about the outlook for sales.
     Intel, the world's biggest chipmaker, reported record second-quarter sales and topped analysts' estimates with its forecast for this period, allaying concern that a rebound in technology spending is losing steam. Smith also discusses the company's investments in China. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
