-- Intel, ASML Spur Rally in Tech Stocks on Revenue Outlook
-- Ian King
-- 2010-07-14T15:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/intel-asml-spur-rally-in-technology-stocks-on-forecast-for-revenue-gains.html

          
          
             Intel Corp. , the world’s biggest
semiconductor maker, and ASML Holding NV, Europe’s largest
manufacturer of chip machinery, triggered a rally in technology
stocks after forecasting increased sales.  
 A gauge of technology shares was the biggest gainer among
the 19 industry groups in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  today,
increasing 1.2 percent. ASML rose 3.1 percent in Amsterdam.
STMicroelectronics NV and Infineon Technologies AG, Europe’s
biggest chipmakers, climbed more than 2 percent.  
 Intel and  ASML  are benefitting from increased demand as
consumers and businesses resume spending after the recession.
Companies including Samsung Electronics Co. are expanding
factory lines to meet rising demand for personal-computer memory
and chips used to store data in portable devices such as Apple
Inc.’s iPhone.  
 “At 16 percent of global semiconductor sales,” Intel is a
“bellwether” for the sector, London-based analysts  Jonathan Crossfield  and  Andrew Griffin  at BofA Merrill Lynch Global
Research wrote in a report today.  
 Infineon gained 2.4 percent to 5.31 euros in Frankfurt.
 STMicro , Europe’s biggest chipmaker, added 2.3 percent to
6.92 euros in Paris. ARM Holdings Plc, the U.K. designer of
semiconductors used in Apple’s iPhone, rose 3.1 percent to
318.5 pence in London. ASML climbed 74.5 cents to 25.15 euros.  
 Rising Sales  
 Intel , whose processors run more than 80 percent of the
world’s personal computers, yesterday reported second-quarter
sales of $10.8 billion, topping an average analyst estimate of
$10.3 billion in a Bloomberg survey. Intel’s second-quarter
earnings and sales forecast for the current period also topped
estimates.  
 Intel said its gross-profit margin will reach 66 percent
this year and forecast third-quarter sales of about $11.6
billion, beating analysts’ estimates of $10.9 billion.  
 “Intel’s third-quarter sales guidance provides comfort
with regard to end markets,” Amsterdam-based analyst  Peter Olofsen  at Kepler Capital Markets said today. “After that,
Applied Materials Inc. and ASML showed that recovery in the
equipment market is continuing as well, and that order intake is
continuing to increase.”  
 ASML today reported second-quarter profit that beat
 analysts’ predictions  and forecast 2010 sales to rise to a
record level as chip companies boost spending. The company
expects sales for the year to be 10 to 15 percent higher than
the peak level of 3.8 billion euros ($4.8 billion) in 2007.  
 Good Outlook  
 “When we look at the total picture, 2011 bodes very well
for ASML,” Chief Financial Officer  Peter Wennink  said in a
video interview on the company’s website. “Because it’s not a
little hump that we’re currently seeing. We are seeing some
structural drivers for growth in this industry.”  
 Intel kicked off three weeks of earnings reports by the
largest U.S. technology companies, including International
Business Machines Corp., Google Inc. and Microsoft Corp. Intel’s
dominance of the market for microprocessors, the main component
in computers, makes it a barometer of industry demand.  
 Before Intel’s earnings report, investors were concerned
that the industry had built up excess stockpiles of computer
chips. Intel Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini  said
yesterday that demand is strong enough to ward off a glut.  
 “We are very comfortable with the level of inventory,” he
said.  
 Corporate customers are replacing their old desktop and
notebook machines, spurring demand for chips, Intel said. At the
same time, Internet businesses, such as Google Inc. and Facebook
Inc., are ordering more servers for their data centers.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “When we look at the total picture, 2011 bodes very well for ASML,” Chief Financial Officer Peter Wennink said. Photographer: Paul O'Driscoll/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Intel Corp. Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li from Santa Clara, California, about the outlook for sales.
     Intel, the world's biggest chipmaker, reported record second-quarter sales and topped analysts' estimates with its forecast for this period, allaying concern that a rebound in technology spending is losing steam. Smith also discusses the company's investments in China. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
