-- Canada Pension Plan Offers $3.1 Billion for Macquarie-Backed Intoll Group
-- Angus Whitley
-- 2010-07-15T06:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/intoll-group-gets-a-1-535-a-share-takeover-offer-from-canada-pension-plan.html

          
          
             Canada Pension Plan Investment Board
offered A$3.47 billion ($3.1 billion) for Macquarie Group Ltd.-
backed  Intoll Group  in its second attempt to buy an Australian
toll-road operator in eight months. Intoll shares surged.  
 Canada’s second-biggest public pension manager bid A$1.535
for each Intoll share, 42 cents more than the closing price
yesterday, Sydney-based Intoll said in a statement today. Intoll,
whose shares jumped 30 percent to close at A$1.45 in Sydney,
gave the bidder three weeks to carry out due diligence.  
 “The price looks good relative to Intoll’s recent share
price, but it still undervalues the stock,” said  Will Seddon ,
who helps oversee A$350 million at White Funds Management in
Sydney. “If another bid doesn’t come in, and we think there’s a
decent chance it will, then it’s going to come back to Intoll’s
investors and what their perception of value is.”  
 Canada Pension Plan’s joint A$6.6 billion offer for toll-
road operator  Transurban Group  in November and a revised bid in
May collapsed after the approach was rejected and co-bidder
Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan sold out. Canada Pension Plan is
seeking to match long-term liabilities with assets set to
deliver steady returns in economies that weathered the global
recession.  
 “We believe Intoll’s toll road assets are a good fit with
CPPIB’s portfolio and long-term investment mandate and are well-
situated strategically to benefit from future urban growth in
Toronto and Sydney,”  Andre Bourbonnais , senior vice president
of private investments at the pension fund, said in an emailed
statement.  
 Bigger Premium  
 Intoll’s directors “have not formed a view as to the
adequacy of the proposal and accordingly recommend that Intoll
security holders take no action at this time,” Intoll said in
the statement. There’s no guarantee that the talks will lead to
a binding offer, said Intoll, which was formed from the
restructure in January of Macquarie Infrastructure Group.  
 Canada Pension Plan’s offer for Intoll is 38 percent higher
than yesterday’s closing price, almost double the 20 percent
premium it offered to shareholders of Transurban on Nov. 5.  
 Intoll assets, including a 30 percent stake in the 407 ETR
near Toronto and 25 percent of the Westlink M7 in Sydney, could
offer as much as 8 percent revenue growth for the next 50 years
for the Canadian Pension Plan,  Ian Myles , a Sydney-based analyst
at Macquarie Group Ltd., who has an “outperform” rating on the
stock, said in a telephone interview today.  
 Canada Pension Plan doesn’t plan to sell its 12.9 percent
stake in Transurban to pay for the acquisition of Intoll if its
bid is successful, the Australian Financial Review reported,
citing comments from Bourbonnais.  
 Intoll  posted  A$185 million in profit for the six months
ended Dec. 31 on revenue of A$284 million.  Macquarie Group ,
Australia’s largest investment bank, owns 18 percent of Intoll,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        