-- Inventories in U.S. Climb at Slowest Pace of Year on Weaker Sales Outlook
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-07-14T14:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/inventories-in-u-s-climb-at-slowest-pace-of-year-on-weaker-sales-outlook.html

          
          
             Inventories in the U.S. rose 0.1
percent in May, the smallest gain this year, signaling companies
are preparing for weaker sales in coming months.  
 The increase in the value of  stockpiles  was smaller than
the median forecast of economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News and
followed a 0.4 percent advance the prior month, data from the
Commerce Department showed today. Sales fell 0.9 percent, the
biggest drop since March 2009.  
 Companies had enough goods on hand to  supply  1.24 months’
worth of sales at May’s pace, up from a record-low 1.23 months
in April. The need to replenish depleted stockpiles, which
propelled the U.S. out of its worst recession since the 1930s,
is likely to moderate as demand cools, contributing less to
growth.  
 “Inventory restocking is showing signs of fatigue,”  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Economy.com in West
Chester, Pennsylvania, said before the report. “The recovery
has lost some steam over the past month, and the reluctance of
small businesses to invest and hire will contribute to a weak
second half of this year.”  
 Sales at retailers fell in June for a second month,
indicating the pace of economic recovery moderated heading into
the second half of 2010, other figures from the Commerce
Department showed today.  Purchases  decreased a more-than-
projected 0.5 percent following a 1.1 percent May drop.
 Excluding auto dealers , demand fell 0.1 percent, matching the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Stocks Fall  
 Stocks fell after the reports. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index declined 0.4 percent to 1,090.86 at 10:11 a.m. in New
York. Treasury securities rose, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note down to 3.07 percent from 3.12 percent
late yesterday.  
 Economists forecast inventories would rise 0.2 percent,
according to the median of 53 projections in a Bloomberg News
survey.  
 Retailers’ inventories, the only part of today’s report not
previously released, increased 0.3 percent in May after rising
0.2 percent the previous month. Sales, excluding food, decreased
1.2 percent.  
 Factory inventories fell 0.4 percent and wholesale
stockpiles increased 0.5 percent.  
 First Quarter  
 Stockpile replenishment added 1.88 percentage points to
gross domestic product in the first quarter, down from 3.79
percentage points in the last three months of 2009, according to
Commerce Department estimates released June 25. While the
 contribution  to GDP may diminish, efforts to meet demand and to
restock shelves will still support economic growth.  
 Inventory restocking is among reasons manufacturing has
remained resilient amid a slowdown in consumer spending, the
biggest part of the economy. The Institute for Supply Management
said this month that its factory index totaled 56.2 in June.
Fifty is the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  
 The  ISM  manufacturing gauge for customer inventories
climbed to 38 in June after matching the lowest level on record
the previous month.  
 Sales and inventories “are very much in sync,” Samuel
Allen, chief executive officer of Deere & Co., said in an
interview June 23 in a reference to the manufacturer’s
agricultural business. The Moline, Illinois-based company also
has started adding stockpiles on the construction side in recent
months, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        