-- Lions Gate Said to Woo MGM Studio Creditors; Seeks Terms Icahn Would Back
-- Michael White
-- 2010-07-14T20:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/lions-gate-said-to-woo-mgm-studio-creditors-seeks-terms-icahn-would-back.html

          
          
             Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. , the
independent film and TV producer, has approached creditors of
ailing  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.  to help shape a plan to acquire
the studio, two people with knowledge of the situation said.  
 Lions Gate Vice Chairman  Michael Burns  has been meeting in
New York with investors who hold some of MGM’s $3.7 billion
debt, according to the people, who requested anonymity because
the discussions are private.  
 Any agreement to buy Los Angeles-based MGM, which won
another loan reprieve from creditors today, would have to be
approved by  Carl Icahn , Lions Gate’s largest shareholder. He
took a 10-day break from efforts to gain control of Vancouver-
based Lions Gate’s board so the company could make a case for
certain acquisitions. That standstill agreement expires on July
19. Debt-hobbled MGM is co-owner of the James Bond franchise.  
 Icahn, 74, who holds almost 38 percent of Lions Gate
 shares , isn’t a party to the talks, one person with knowledge of
Burns’s efforts said yesterday. The billionaire investor
threatened a proxy fight to elect his own  board  at Lions Gate,
distributor of the “Saw” movies, after failing to gain a
majority of the stock with a $7-a-share takeover bid.  
 Icahn, who said in March he opposes the purchase of film
libraries such as MGM’s, couldn’t be reached. Burns didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  
 Michael Utley , spokesman for Houlihan Lokey, the investment
bank advising MGM’s creditor committee, declined to comment, as
did  Susie Arons , an outside spokeswoman for MGM.  
 The creditors, who formed a committee that represents MGM’s
100 or so debt holders, haven’t agreed on a unified position,
the people said.  
 Balance Sheet  
 The creditors’ lack of unity underscores the difficulty
Burns faces as he tries to craft a deal that will satisfy MGM’s
debt holders and Icahn, who has said he won’t approve a large
equity-for-debt swap that dilutes his holdings.  
 Peter Wilkes , a Lions Gate spokesman, said on July 9 the
studio “wouldn’t do a highly leveraged deal that added
significant debt to our balance sheet.”  
 Lions Gate said in February that it hired Morgan Stanley as
its financial adviser after receiving a tender offer from Icahn.  
 Shares of the company, also producer of the Emmy winning
“Mad Men” TV series, gained 8 cents to $6.61 at 4:03 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . Lions Gate, run from
Santa Monica, California, has gained 14 percent this year.  
 MGM was put up for sale last year after falling behind on
its debts. Creditors have granted the studio several waivers on
its payments. The studio’s newest forbearance agreement, which
was announced in a statement today, expires on Sept. 15, almost
one year after the first reprieve was announced.  
 The studio was taken private for $5 billion in 2005 by
buyers including Providence Equity Partners.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
