-- Iranian Scientist Amiri Lands in Qatar, Maintains Americans Kidnapped Him
-- Robert Tuttle
-- 2010-07-14T19:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/iranian-scientist-amiri-lands-in-qatar-maintains-americans-kidnapped-him.html

          
          
             Iranian scientist Shahram Amiri,
speaking after leaving the U.S., accused American officials of
kidnapping and holding him for 14 months against his will.  
 “I explained that I was kidnapped, that they kept me in
bad situation for 14 months,” he said in an interview at the
Doha, Qatar, airport. “I was under transport with armed person.
Twenty-four hours they didn’t let me talk to my family.
Sometimes they let me go outside. They followed me, I really
think for 14 months I was not free.”  
 Amiri spoke after arriving on a flight from Washington. He
left the U.S. en route to Iran via a third country, Iran’s
foreign ministry spokesman,  Ramin Mehmanparast , was quoted as
saying early today by the state-run Islamic Republic News
Agency.  
 Amiri had taken refuge early yesterday in the Iranian
interests section at Pakistan’s embassy in Washington, Iran’s
state television reported.  
 A month earlier, the scientist, who taught at a military-
run university in Tehran, said in a video message aired on state
television that he had been abducted by the U.S. last year in
Medina, Saudi Arabia.  
 ABC News reported on March 31 that Amiri was a nuclear
scientist who defected to the U.S. in an operation planned by
the Central Intelligence Agency, citing people who were briefed
by intelligence officials. The U.S. and many of its allies say
Iran may be trying to develop nuclear weapons, while the Persian
Gulf country insists its atomic program is peaceful.  
 Amiri said he was held in different locations while in the
U.S.  
 “Long story I can’t explain in short time,” he said at
the Doha airport. “I didn’t do anything against my country.”  
 U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday that
Amiri was “free to go, he was free to come.”  
 The United Nations Security Council on June 9 approved a
fourth round of sanctions against Iran over its nuclear program.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heidi Couch  in Dubai at 
 hcouch@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        