-- Israeli Plan to Get Ultra-Orthodox Community Working May Add 7.5% to GDP
-- Calev Ben David
-- 2010-07-14T12:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/israeli-plan-to-get-ultra-orthodox-community-working-may-add-7-5-to-gdp.html

          
          
             A plan to boost labor force
participation among Israel’s ultra-orthodox Jews may lift
economic output by as much as 7.5 percent over the next 15
years, Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s top economic adviser
said.  
 The government’s goal is to raise the group’s workforce
participation rate to about 63 percent, the same as ultra-
orthodox communities outside of Israel,  Eugene Kandel , head of
the National Economic Council, said in an interview in his
Jerusalem office on July 12. At present, only about 40 percent
of ultra-orthodox men are in the workforce, he said.  
 “These are very problematic numbers, but at the same time
they provide us with a huge growth engine, if we can correct
that,” Kandel said. “This group has a lot of potential in it
because they know how to learn, they are trained to learn. So we
are losing a huge amount of growth potential in knowledge-based
industries because they are not there.”  
 The ultra-orthodox say they live according to strict Jewish
religious laws and practice. They often live in segregated
communities, dress in a distinctive garb, and observe strict
separation of men and women in public. Many of their men engage
in religious studies full-time instead of working, supported
through charities, state grants or by their wives.  
 While the ultra-orthodox currently make up about 8.5
percent of Israel’s 7.5 million population, they are expected to
grow to 17.5 percent within two decades, due to their relatively
high birth rate.  
 The government has set a goal of bringing Israel’s standard
of living up to the average among members of the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development within 10 to 15 years,
from the current level of about 84 percent of the average. If
the ultra-orthodox plan succeeds, that alone could provide about
half of the boost needed, Kandel said.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  at   aodenheimer@bloomberg.net 
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        