-- Lithuania to Overhaul $6.6 Billion of State Assets to Trim Budget Deficit
-- Agnes Lovasz
-- 2010-07-14T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/lithuania-to-overhaul-6-6-billion-of-state-assets-to-trim-budget-deficit.html

          
          
             Lithuania will overhaul its 300
state-owned companies and prepare them for sale to narrow the
budget deficit as the Baltic nation looks for ways to rebound
from the European Union’s second-deepest recession.  
 The government values the assets, mainly in the energy,
transport and forestry industries, at 18 billion litas ($6.6
billion). The overhaul, presented in Vilnius today, aims to
increase the 45 million litas in dividends earned from the
enterprises last year and sell stakes later, Finance Minister
 Ingrida Simonyte  said in a telephone interview yesterday.  
 “The biggest benefit is the fiscal effects that this may
bring,” said Simonyte. The revenue may amount to 1 percentage
point of  gross domestic product  and “this is especially
important when we have a substantial consolidation to do and the
economic upturn is still very fragile.”  
 Prime Minister  Andrius Kubilius ’ government pushed through
one of the EU’s toughest austerity packages last year, with
budget cuts equal to 12 percent of GDP as the economy shrank
14.8 percent. The International Monetary Fund expects GDP to
grow 2 percent this year, it said on May 24. The government sees
a 1.6 percent expansion.  
 Kubilius aims to narrow the deficit to 3 percent of  GDP  in
two years from 8.9 percent last year.  
 That will require further spending cuts of about 5 percent
of output, Kubilius said last month. The European Commission on
May 5 forecast a shortfall of 8.4 percent of GDP this year.  
 Feasible  
 The 1 percentage-point goal may be “feasible” in 2012
through the efficiency program introduced today, Simonyte said.
The companies may become net contributors to the budget within a
year, she said.  
 The government would also offer shares in the companies,
including state railway operator Lietuvos Gelezinkeliali AB, LEO
LT AB, the energy holding company, and Lietuvos Pastas AB, the
postal service.  
 Since joining the EU in 2004, Lithuania’s biggest asset
disposal was the sale of oil refinery AB Mazeikiu Nafta to
Poland’s PKN Orlen SA.  
 Investors are looking more favorably on Lithuania. The
yield on Lithuania’s bond due 2020 fell 0.05 percentage point to
6.55 percent today froma week earlier. That compares with a 7.6
percent yield in February. The  Vilnius NASDAQ OMX  stock index is
up 18 percent this year. The cost of protecting Lithuanian debt
with credit-default swaps fell 10 basis points to 257.57
yesterday according to CMA DataVision.  
 Piecemeal  
 The country has secured investment this year from Barclays
PLC, Western Union Co.,  IBM Corp ., Moog Medical Devices and
Systemair AB. The government seeks to double the level of
foreign direct investment in the next five years, Economy
Minister  Dainius Kreivys  said in an interview on June 22, aiming
at luring 20 billion euros after attracting half that much in
the 20 years of independence from the Soviet Union.  
 In the other Baltic states, Estonia and Latvia, asset sales
have been piecemeal. Baltic Rail Services OU, a group of local
and international investors, in 2001 paid 1 billion krooni ($80
million) for 66 percent of AS Eesti Raudtee and pledged to
invest another 4.7 billion kroon by 2010. The stake was bought
back by the Estonian state for 2.35 billion krooni in 2006.  
 Stockholm-based  Swedbank  AB bought the 40 percent of
Tallinn-based Hansapank AS, the largest Baltic bank, that it
didn’t already own for 1.7 billion euros ($2.2 billion) in 2005.  
 Latvia last sold an asset when it auctioned off its 38.6
percent stake in refinery  Ventspils Nafta  AS to the Vitol Group
in October 2006 for 74.2 million lati ($133.2 million).  
 Right Time  
 The government is breaking up Parex Banka AS, the lender it
took over in 2008, to prepare it for a sale. Prime Minister
 Valdis Dombrovskis  said on July 2 the government was carrying
out an inventory of all state-owned enterprises and assets.  
 Lithuanian asset sales would attract private capital and
increase accountability, though initially the state would hold
on to a majority of the shares for a year or two, said Simonyte.  
 “Nobody can preclude privatization when the time is right
or when it’s the best option, but we see that, at least in the
beginning, there is a need to improve the return on the
assets,” she said.  
 The government plans to introduce more professional
management, set clearer goals, maximize the value of the
enterprises and make their operations more transparent,
according to the review.  
 The book value of the assets is equivalent to about 25
percent of the economy, making the government the biggest owner
of commercial assets in the country and the biggest single
employer, according to today’s review.  
 The state companies had revenue of 8.46 billion litas last
year, compared with 9.46 billion in 2008, the review shows.
Return on equity was a negative 6.1 percent last year, compared
with 0.1 percent in 2008, according to the review document.  
 If Lithuanian state assets were run as efficiently as in
Sweden or Finland, the government could generate revenue
equivalent to 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent of GDP, Kubilius wrote
in the review.  
 The government’s fiscal measures prompted Moody’s Investor
Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings to raise the
outlook on Lithuania’s credit ratings this year to stable from
negative.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on Lithuania: NI LITHUANIA BN <GO>
Lithuania’s economic indicator calendar: ECO LN <GO>
Eastern Europe: EEUT <GO>
Credit crunch page: WWCC <GO>  
          
          


  


        