-- Japan's Bond Futures Advance Most This Year on Signs China, U.S. Slowing
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-07-15T06:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/japan-s-bonds-may-snap-two-day-drop-on-u-s-retail-sales-data-fed-warning.html

          
          
             Japanese bond futures rose the most
this year as Asian stocks fell on signs growth in the U.S. and
China is slowing, boosting demand for the relative safety of
government debt.  
 Ten-year  bonds  gained the most in two weeks after a Chinese
report showed economic growth eased last quarter and economists
said U.S. data today will show industrial output and producer
prices fell last month. Bonds also advanced after the Bank of
Japan kept its benchmark interest rate near zero and predicted
economic growth would slow next year as fiscal stimulus
evaporates worldwide and overseas demand loses steam.  
 “Central banks in Japan, Europe and the U.S. are not going
to change their policies toward normalization anytime soon,”
said  Akito Fukunaga , chief rates strategist in Tokyo at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc., Britain’s biggest government-owned
bank. “Investors are likely to keep buying bonds on dips.”  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery advanced 0.51
to 141.73 at the 3 p.m. close at the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the
biggest gain for a benchmark contract since Dec. 1.  
 The  yield  on the 10-year bond dropped 5.5 basis points to
1.08 percent as of 3:45 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co.
the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.1 percent
security due June 2020 rose 0.492 yen to 100.179 yen. The drop
in yield was the most since June 29.  
 The  Nikkei 225  Stock Average slipped 1.1 percent.  
 China Growth Slows  
 China’s economic growth slowed to 10.3 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, down from 11.9 percent the prior three
months, the statistics bureau said in Beijing. U.S. industrial
output fell 0.1 percent in June from May, the first drop in a
year, based on a Bloomberg survey before the Fed report. The
Labor Department will say prices paid to producers slid for a
third month, another Bloomberg survey showed.  
 Minutes of the Federal Reserve’s June meeting released
yesterday showed policy makers said “the economic outlook had
softened somewhat” and that some officials saw “some risk of
deflation.” Deflation enhances the value of the fixed payments
from bonds.  
 Japan’s central bank kept its benchmark rate at 0.1 percent
as predicted by economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Policy makers
raised their growth forecast for the year ending March 2011 to
2.6 percent from 1.8 percent estimated in April, while cutting
next year’s to 1.9 percent from 2 percent.  
 “The BOJ is taking into account the negative impact from
Europe’s fiscal crisis and austerity,” said  Makoto Noji , a
senior market analyst in Tokyo at Mizuho Securities Co., a unit
of Japan’s second-largest bank. “Japan’s yields should go down
further if the Fed moves toward further easing before the BOJ
does, bringing down the dollar-yen.”  
 Poised to Rally  
 Government bonds are poised to rally around the world as
optimism company earnings will accelerate in the U.S. tapers off,
according to Sumitomo Life Insurance Co.  
 Ten-year Japanese yields may drop toward 1 percent and
similar-maturity Treasury  yields  may decline to 2.75 percent by
year-end as concern over the global economic slowdown resurfaces,
said  Mitsuo Masuda , manager of fixed-income investment in Tokyo
at Japan’s third-largest life insurer by policy holders.  
 “The latest round of rising bond yields, driven by
encouraging profit reports from companies like Alcoa, will not
last long,” Masuda said in an interview. As governments around
the globe withdraw stimulus measures, “concern over the
deceleration of economic growth will strengthen,” he said.  
 Japan’s 10-year yields have risen from a seven-year low of
1.055 percent on July 1 as speculation U.S. corporate earnings
will quicken this quarter damped demand for government debt.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        