-- JPMorgan Names Urwin, Willsey Co-Heads of U.S., Canada Investment Banking
-- Zachary Mider
-- 2010-07-14T20:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/jpmorgan-names-urwin-willsey-co-heads-of-u-s-canada-investment-banking.html

          
          
             JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender by assets, named  Jeff Urwin  and  Kevin Willsey  as co-heads of investment banking for the U.S. and
Canada.  
 The pair succeed  Doug Braunstein , who was named chief
financial officer of the bank in June, according to an internal
memo dated today from  Jes Staley , chief executive officer of the
investment-banking unit at New York-based JPMorgan Chase.  
 Staley said investment bank co-chair  Jimmy Lee  will
“continue to serve as our senior dealmaker and manage many of
our top client relationships.” He’ll also be an adviser to
Urwin and Willsey, Staley said.  
 Urwin, 54, joined the firm when it acquired Bear Stearns
Cos. in 2008 and Willsey, 47, was previously JPMorgan’s chairman
of global equity capital and derivative markets. Willsey, who
started at JPMorgan in 1989, rejoined the bank in 2002 after a
two-year stint at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.   
 “Both Jeff and Kevin are outstanding individuals with
impeccable character and a drive to serve clients,” Staley told
employees in the memo, which was confirmed by spokeswoman  Tasha Pelio . Staley said the two will manage the business jointly,
focusing on their own areas of expertise.  
 Urwin was JPMorgan’s head of investment banking coverage of
the Americas. He previously was co-head of investment banking at
Bear Stearns, which he joined in 1996, and head of global
emerging markets at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in New York.  
 Visa, Wells Fargo Deals  
 Willsey has raised capital for clients in the U.S., Europe,
Asia and Latin America, according to JPMorgan. He has managed
major financing deals, including  Visa Inc. ’s $19.7 billion
initial public offering,  Wells Fargo & Co. ’s $12.6 billion
equity offering used to acquire Wachovia Corp. and JPMorgan’s
own $11.5 billion equity deal to acquire assets of Washington
Mutual Inc., the company said.  
 Lee, 57, advised UAL Corp.’s United Airlines on its $3.1
billion merger with Continental Airlines Inc. earlier this year.
He also helped  General Electric Co.  sell a majority stake in NBC
Universal to Comcast Corp. last year and led negotiations with
the U.S. Treasury Department on behalf of Chrysler LLC bank-debt
holders.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dawn Kopecki  in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com ;
 Zachary Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        