-- Dubai's Nakheel Presents New Terms on $10.5 Billion of Debt to Creditors
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-07-14T15:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/nakheel-presents-loan-amendment-plan-to-creditor-banks-owed-10-5-billion.html

          
          
             Nakheel PJSC, the Dubai World-owned
property developer hurt by a slump in home prices, said a group
of its creditors “unanimously supported” a proposal on
altering the terms on $10.5 billion of loans and unpaid bills.  
 Nakheel “has negotiated the terms of the restructuring
with the coordinating committee of its creditor banks with the
support of Dubai World and the Government of Dubai,” the
company said in an e-mailed statement today. The terms are
supported “in principle” by the committee and Nakheel expects
to complete the restricting over the “coming months,” it said.  
 The company, which is building palm tree-shaped islands off
Dubai’s coast, plans to offer creditor banks interest of 4
percentage points more than benchmark rates on new loans as part
of the debt restructuring, two bankers with knowledge of the
plan said yesterday. In return, lenders would agree to extend
the life of the loans by five years, said the people.  
 On March 25, Nakheel said that its secured bank creditors
will receive 100 percent of their principal and accrued interest
under an agreement to extend loan maturities. The developer has
one dollar loan outstanding, a $1.85 billion facility that was
signed in August 2007 and is due to expire in 2012 as well as
five smaller dirham loans with different maturities totaling 2.4
billion dirhams ($657 million), according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It also has several other bilateral loans.  
 Nakheel Bond  
 Nakheel’s 2.75 percent $750 million fixed-rate Islamic note
due in January 2011 rose 0.11 cent to 108.11 on the dollar as of
6:45 p.m. in Dubai. The yield has fallen to 15.2 percent from
140 percent on Dec. 9, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Presentations were made by Nakheel and its advisers at
today’s meeting, as well as by accounting firm KPMG and law firm
Allen & Overy, advisers to the bank coordination committee, a
Nakheel spokesman said. Banks were asked to respond by August
31, said the spokesman, who declined to give further details.  
 Nakheel’s coordination committee includes Dubai Islamic
Bank PJSC, National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC and Barclays Plc.  
 Nakheel and Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main
state-owned holding companies, are seeking to renegotiate terms
on their debt after the deepest financial crisis since the 1930s
roiled the emirate’s real-estate market and left companies
unable to raise new funding. Property prices have fallen more
than 50 percent in the city state as banks cut mortgage lending.  
 Wider Spreads  
 The loans make up part of the overall liabilities that
Nakheel is seeking to reorganize, which also include outstanding
payments to suppliers and contractors. The spreads on the new
loans will be wider than the Emirates interbank offered rate or
the London interbank offered rate, the bankers said.  
 Dubai World said on May 20 it had reached an agreement with
its seven biggest lenders, among them  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  and  HSBC Holdings Plc , and the Dubai government on
restructuring $23.5 billion of liabilities. Dubai World offered
creditors 1 percent interest on loans and additional interest on
maturity ranging from 1 percent to as much as 2.5 percent.  
 Nakheel’s supplier and contractors are being paid 100
percent of their claims, 40 percent through a cash payment and
60 percent in the form of a publicly traded Islamic bond, or
sukuk, paying a 10 percent annual return, the company has said.  
 Nakheel said on June 30 it had begun settling bills from
its biggest trade creditors, involving a payout of 4 billion
dirhams ($1.09 billion). More than 60 percent of its trade
creditors had agreed to new payment terms, it said that day.  
 United Arab Emirates banks may need to set aside between 10
percent and 20 percent of their loans to state-owned Dubai World
to cover losses after it announced a $23.5 billion debt
restructuring, Moody’s Investors Service said on June 29.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at   asharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        