-- National Aviation Extends Date for Bank Bids to Recast $1.15 Billion Debt
-- Subramaniam Sharma
-- 2010-07-14T13:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/national-aviation-extends-date-for-bank-bids-to-recast-1-15-billion-debt.html

          
          
             National Aviation Co. of India Ltd.,
the parent of Air India, has extended the deadline for bank bids
to refinance $1.15 billion of debt to Aug. 31, said  Arvind Jadhav , chairman and managing director.  
 State-owned National Aviation is seeking to recast the loans
to pare interest costs, Jadhav said. The money was used to
purchase 21 Airbus SAS planes, according to National Aviation’s
 website . The earlier deadline to submit bids was July 16.  
 The company aims to slash expenses and restructure
operations after losses prompted it to seek government funds.
The government infused 8 billion rupees last fiscal year as
 equity  into the company. It set aside 12 billion rupees ($257
million) for the airline operator in its budget for the current
year, according to the ministry of civil aviation.  
 National Aviation, formed in 2007 by combining Air India
and its domestic counterpart Indian Airlines, has cut
overlapping flights to reduce costs. The government  estimates 
Air India may have narrowed losses in the year that ended in
March to 54 billion rupees from 55.5 billion rupees a year
earlier.  
 Air India aims to reduce its losses by about 75 percent in
the financial year that began April 1, Jadhav said.  
 Air India will seek to develop the Delhi airport, which
opened a new terminal on July 3, as a hub. The airline plans to
start direct non-stop flights to Melbourne, Chicago and Toronto
and add more flights to local destinations.  
 “We want to be the leader of the Indian aviation market
and the best way to do that is with our own hub,” Jadhav said.
“This is part of our turnaround plan.”  
 National Aviation is the third-biggest operator of domestic
air passenger services with a 17.7 percent share behind  Jet
Airways (India) Ltd.  and  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. , according to
the ministry of civil aviation.  
 Air India had a debt of 152 billion rupees as of June last
year, according to the government.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        