-- National League Ends 13-Year Winless Streak in Baseball's All-Star Game
-- Rob Gloster
-- 2010-07-14T04:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/national-league-ends-13-year-winless-streak-in-baseball-s-all-star-game.html

          
          
             The National League ended its 13-
year winless streak in the All-Star Game, defeating the American
League 3-1 in a microcosm of what has become the “year of the
pitcher.”  
 Brian McCann  of the Atlanta Braves hit a three-run double
in the seventh inning last night for the NL, which hadn’t won
Major League Baseball’s midseason exhibition game since 1996.  
 The AL had 12 wins and a tie in the 13 previous All-Star
Games. The NL now leads the all-time series 41-38-2.  
 “To be able to come through in a big spot is something
I’ll never forget,” McCann, who pumped his fist in the air
after reaching second base, said in a postgame news conference.
“As a kid this is what you dream about. Tonight I was just
lucky enough to be in the situation to come through.”  
 The NL was shut out until the seventh inning.  Scott Rolen 
of the Cincinnati Reds and  Matt Holliday  of the St. Louis
Cardinals singled off  Phil Hughes  of the New York Yankees.  Matt Thornton  of the Chicago White Sox came in to pitch and walked
 Marlon Byrd  of the Chicago Cubs before allowing McCann’s bases-
clearing double into the right-field corner.  
 The winning league in the All-Star Game earns home field in
the World Series, and NL manager  Charlie Manuel  of the
Philadelphia Phillies said that was just as crucial as ending
the losing streak.  
 “All good things have to come to an end,” Manuel said in
a postgame news conference. “I talked to our guys before the
game and told them how important home field was.”  
 Combined 18 Strikeouts  
 Baseball’s best hitters had a combined 13 hits and 18
strikeouts. The AL’s only run came on a walk, an error and a
sacrifice fly by  Robinson Cano  of the Yankees in the fifth
inning. The AL had six hits, its lowest number since also having
six in 1999.  
 As of the end of June, pitchers’ earned run averages and
batters’ home-run totals were at their lowest in almost two
decades, and strikeouts were on a record pace.  
 “You can see the quality of the arms out there,” said
McCann, who was selected as the game’s Most Valuable Player.
“It’s the year of the pitcher. Every single guy you’re facing
is a quality pitcher.”  
 Hitters couldn’t complain about needing time to warm up --
the temperature was a sultry 85 degrees Fahrenheit (29 Celsius)
at game time.  
 The death of Yankees owner  George Steinbrenner  earlier in
the day in Tampa, Florida, cast a somber shadow over the usually
joyous atmosphere at the game. The game was preceded by a moment
of silence for the man known as “The Boss,” who helped lead
the Yankees to seven World Series titles.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  in Anaheim, California, at
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        