-- Natural Gas Falls on Concern Economy Too Weak to Absorb Increasing Output
-- Moming Zhou
-- 2010-07-14T18:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/natural-gas-falls-on-concern-economy-too-weak-to-absorb-increasing-output.html

          
          
             Natural gas futures fell for the
seventh time in eight days on concern the U.S. economic recovery
won’t be strong enough to absorb rising production of the
factory and power-plant fuel.  
 U.S. retail sales fell by a more-than-projected 0.5 percent
in June following a 1.1 percent May drop, Commerce Department
data showed today, indicating the pace of economic recovery
moderated. The Energy Department last week said U.S. gas output
this year will be up 2.1 percent from 2009.  
 “Production is going to be higher and the market is having
a hard time finding anything to get excited about,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in Chicago. “The
retail number took away more momentum in the market.”  
 Natural gas for August delivery fell 4.8 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $4.306 per million British thermal units on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement price since June
1. Gas has dropped 14 percent from a month ago.  
 An Energy Department report tomorrow may show that U.S. gas
stockpiles gained 81 billion cubic feet last week, based on the
median of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of analysts. The
five-year average increase is 89 billion.  
 “Hot weather had an impact on gas-fired power generation
and raised gas demand,” said  Cameron Horwitz , an analyst at
SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc. in Houston. Still, “the storage
level is very high.”  
 Supply Report  
 Gas stockpiles gained 78 billion cubic feet to 2.762
trillion in the week ended July 2, the department said last
week. Supplies were 12 percent higher than the five-year
average.  
 Gas may fall below $4 per million Btu if the August
contract breaks below its all-time low of $4.07, according to a
technical analysis by  Chris Kostas , a senior analyst at Energy
Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield, Massachusetts.  
 A break below that level, reached on May 6, will send the
August contract below $4 before it expires on July 28, and gas
futures will approach $3 by September, according to Kostas.  
 “You had one of the hottest starts to summer on record and
yet you are sitting on these kinds of price levels,” Horwitz
said. “I think it’s pretty telling” that storage is ample.  
 New York saw 103 degrees Fahrenheit on July 6, a record for
the date, according to the National Weather Service.  
 Temperatures in the U.S. Midwest and Northeast will be
above normal through July 23, according to MAD Federal Inc.’s
Earth Sat Energy Weather, based in Rockville, Maryland.  
 Hotter Weather  
 New York will have a high of 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32
Celsius) on July 17, 5 degrees above average, according to
AccuWeather Inc. Boston’s temperature is forecast to hit 92.  
 About 22 percent of electricity is generated using natural
gas, according to the Energy Department.  
 U.S. gas production will average 61.26 billion cubic feet a
day this year, up 2.1 percent from 59.98 billion in 2009,
according to the Energy Department.  
 The government “projects a continuing decline in Gulf of
Mexico production, which is offset by gains in onshore
production,” the department said in the monthly Short Term
Energy Outlook.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Moming Zhou  in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        