-- NYC Teachers Fund Said to Pick Hamilton Lane as Private Equity Consultant
-- Martin Z. Braun
-- 2010-07-14T20:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/new-york-city-teachers-pension-is-said-to-pick-hamilton-lane-as-consultant.html

          
          
             New York City’s $37 billion pension
fund for schoolteachers plans to hire Hamilton Lane Advisors as
a consultant as it reevaluates its private-equity investments,
according to a person briefed on the decision.  
 Teachers’ Retirement System of the City of New York, which
oversaw $2.5 billion in alternative investments as of April 30,
selected the Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania-based firm over two other
contenders, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the decision isn’t public.  
 Lawrence Schloss , the founder of private-equity firm
Diamond Castle Holdings LLC who was hired in January to help
oversee about $100 billion for the city’s five public pension
funds, said he would review the funds’ investments including
private equity. Schloss worked with Hamilton Lane Chairman
 Hartley Rogers  at Credit Suisse Group AG’s private-equity unit
before founding his own firm.  
 “I know hundreds of professionals in the private-equity
business so I’d like to think I can utilize them for due
diligence,” Schloss said at a June 23 investment conference in
Manhattan.  
 Diamond Castle Holdings and Hamilton Lane were among five
firms that invested $2 billion in Tygris Commercial Finance
Group Inc., a lender formed in 2008, according to Diamond
Castle’s website.  
 PCG’s Role  
 The city’s pension funds are all currently advised by La
Jolla, California-based PCG Asset Management LLC, according to
the person. PCG will continue to advise the other four systems.
Cliffwater LLC in Newport Beach, California, was among firms
vying for the consulting job after the teachers’ fund solicited
proposals, according to the person.  
 Sharon Lee, a spokeswoman for the city comptroller’s
office, declined to comment.  Meghan Houlihan , spokeswoman for
PCG, and  Stephen Nesbitt , chief executive officer of Cliffwater,
didn’t respond to requests for comment. A Hamilton Lane
spokesman couldn’t be reached.  
 Schloss, 55, was hired by city Comptroller  John Liu  in
January. Before forming Diamond Castle in 2004, Schloss headed
DLJ Merchant Banking, an alternative-asset investment business
whose parent was acquired by Zurich-based Credit Suisse in 2000.  
 New York “got very aggressive with private equity” in
2007 and 2008, Schloss said at last month’s conference. The five
systems have allocated $6.8 billion to 166 managers, according
to Schloss.  
 “We seem to have more than our share of relationships,”
he said. “We can probably use some trimming of our
relationships over time.”  
 The teachers’ fund has more than 182,000 members, retirees
and beneficiaries, according to its  website .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        