-- New Jersey Towns May Exceed Christie Property-Tax Cap as Health Fees Surge
-- Dunstan McNichol
-- 2010-07-14T20:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/new-jersey-towns-may-exceed-christie-s-tax-cap-as-health-care-fees-surge.html

          
          
             New Jersey  towns and schools are
likely to use an exemption to Governor  Chris Christie’s VAN4NYJ5IHLI"></a>The rise in medical premiums for 2011 was presented to the
State Health Benefits Commission today. An increase in such
costs of more than 2 percent are exempt from New Jersey’s new
limit on the highest U.S. property taxes, under a  compromise 
between Christie and Democrats who run the Legislature. The
governor, a first-term Republican, had originally opposed
exemptions for anything except debt payments. Municipal health
costs are forecast to jump 12 percent.  
 “This is something the compromise included,” Christie’s
spokesman,  Michael Drewniak , said of the premium increases in an
interview before Aon Employee Benefits Consulting appeared at
the benefits commission in Trenton. “That’s not to say in the
future we’re not going to have changes.”  
 Property taxes in New Jersey, the second-wealthiest U.S.
state by income, rose 72 percent from 1999 to 2009 to an average
of $7,281, according to  data  from the state Department of
Community Affairs. Towns, schools and counties raised a total of
$24 billion through the levy last year.  
 The law signed yesterday by Christie, 47, reduces the
current 4 percent limit on real-estate tax increases, the prime
funding source for schools and local governments, and cuts the
number of exemptions to four from 14. Local governments are
eligible for exceptions to cover bond payments, higher health
insurance or pension costs and natural disasters. The new cap
takes effect in 2011.  
 Waivers Granted  
 As Christie’s law aims to control local tax growth, eight
communities received approval today from the state’s Local
Finance Board for waivers from the current limit.  
 The cap waivers are permanent in most cases, and include a
9.4 percent local-tax increase to enable Burlington City to
offset a $408,000 cut in state aid and Fairfield Township, a
community of about 6,000 residents in Cumberland County, to
raise property taxes by 23 percent after officials said
mismanagement left it short.  
 Newark , New Jersey’s largest city, won approval from the
same board to pursue a plan to stay within the cap partly by
converting its water system into a municipal authority. The
agency would sell $600 million of bonds, of which $100 million
would be paid to the city during two years and $500 million
would be used to make upgrades, according to Mayor  Cory Booker .  
 Water Deal  
 Booker, a Democrat who has endorsed Christie’s tax limit,
told reporters in Newark today that without the water deal,
property taxes would rise as much as 35 percent and police and
firefighters may be fired.  
 “If we don’t act now we are in danger of causing massive,
monumental tax increases which would have painful
consequences,” Booker said.  
 Councilman  Ronald Rice  of Newark said the city council
will introduce a utilities plan tomorrow and hold a hearing.  
 Waiver petitions such as the eight presented today will
cease after this year, when the new cap law abolishes the Local
Finance Board system, Drewniak said. Instead, towns hoping to
exceed the 2 percent cap for reasons other than the listed
exemptions would have to win voter approval in a local election.  
 The 360 of New Jersey’s 566 communities enrolled in the
state health-insurance program paid $856 million into the system
this year, according to Aon’s 2009  report  to the Health Benefits
Commission, and school boards paid $1.1 billion.  
 Paid Benefits  
 The program paid out $686 million in benefits to local
government employees and $1.6 billion to school district workers
in the year that ended June 30, 2009, according to the latest
 audit  of the system.  
 The new rates will cost local governments a total of $869
million next year, Aon said in today’s report, which projected
an overall increase in the premium rate of 11.6 percent. The
benefits program covers 374,000 employees and retirees, and
437,000 of their family members, according to the state’s
Division of Pensions and Benefits 2009 annual report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        