-- New York's W Union Square to Be Sold to Host Venture Including Istithmar
-- David M. Levitt
-- 2010-07-14T23:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/new-york-s-w-union-square-to-be-sold-to-host-venture-including-istithmar.html

          
          
             The W New York Union Square will be
sold to a partnership led by  Host Hotels & Resorts Inc.  as part
of the settlement to bankruptcy proceedings, the property’s
owner said in a statement.  
 The venture also includes Istithmar World PJSC as a
minority partner, according to the statement from LEM, an
affiliate of Lubert-Adler Real Estate Funds. Istithmar World is
a unit of Dubai World, the sovereign wealth fund that defaulted
last year on debt incurred buying the hotel in 2006.  
 LEM controls an entity that held junior debt on the luxury
hotel overlooking Manhattan’s Union Square. Terms of the deal
announced today weren’t disclosed in the statement. The parties
filed a joint liquidation plan today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Delaware.  
 Gregory Larson , vice president for investor relations of
Bethesda, Maryland-based Host Hotels, didn’t immediately return
a call for comment, nor did Dean Adler, chief executive officer
and co-founder of Philadelphia-based Lubert-Adler. A call to
Istithmar’s New York office wasn’t returned.  
 The transaction may complete a process started in December,
when LEM gained control of the property by paying $2 million for
a piece of the debt at a foreclosure auction.  
 Dubai World, a holding company for the Middle Eastern
emirate, paid $285 million for the 270-room hotel near the peak
of the U.S.  commercial property market .  
 The New York hotel, which features Rande Gerber’s Underbar,
is operated by a unit of White Plains, New York-based Starwood
Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc., the third-largest U.S. lodging
company. W Hotel Management Inc. will continue to manage the
hotel under its existing agreement.  
 Hotels Union Square Mezz 1, a junior debt holder, was put
into bankruptcy in March by LEM.  
 The deal should close by Sept. 15, LEM said in the
statement.  
 The case is Hotels Union Square Mezz 1 LLC, 10-10971, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        