-- New Zealand's Manufacturing Industry Expanded at a Faster Pace in June
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-07-14T23:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/new-zealand-s-manufacturing-industry-expanded-at-a-faster-pace-in-june.html

          
          
             New Zealand’s manufacturing industry
expanded at a faster pace in June, adding to evidence exports
are buoying growth as consumer spending and housing slacken.  
 The  manufacturing index  rose to 56.2 from a revised 54.4 in
May, Bank of New Zealand Ltd. and Business New Zealand, a
Wellington-based employer group, said on the group’s website. A
reading above 50 indicates an expansion.  
 Manufacturing has expanded for 10 straight months as demand
from Australia, China and other Asian nations spurs exports. In
contrast, reports this week showed  house sales  declined for a
third month in June and retail sales excluding vehicles and fuel
fell for a second month in May.  
 “An improving manufacturing sector is welcome news as some
other economic growth indicators have recently softened,” said
 Doug Steel , market economist at Bank of New Zealand in
Wellington. “There is a sense of growth reorientation going on
within the economy toward manufacturing and the primary
sectors.”  
 Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor  Alan Bollard  on June
10 raised the official  cash rate  a quarter-point to 2.75 percent,
the first increase in three years. He will raise the benchmark
to 3 percent on July 29, according to all 15 economists surveyed
last week by Bloomberg News.  
 The governor projects annual average growth of 3.1 percent
this year after the economy contracted 1.6 percent in 2009.  
 “The rebound in manufacturing production has been a major
thrust behind the economic recovery to date,” said Steel,
adding that output is up 4.3 percent on year-earlier levels.  
 Manufacturers are more confident because of an improving
world economy, he said. China’s economy grew 11.9 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier. Australia, the nation’s
largest export market, will expand 3 percent in 2010-11,
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said yesterday.  
 The manufacturing index is based on gauges of production,
employment, new orders, finished stocks and deliveries.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        