-- Nigerian Bank Wins U.K. Order Freezing Assets of Former Chief Akingbola
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-07-14T15:43:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/nigerian-bank-wins-u-k-order-freezing-assets-of-former-chief-akingbola.html

          
          
             Intercontinental Bank Plc , a
Nigerian lender bailed out by the country’s central bank, won a
U.K. court order freezing 83 million pounds ($127 million) in
assets held by its former chief executive officer.  
 The bank won the global-freeze order in January in a
lawsuit accusing  Erastus Akingbola  of using the bank’s money to
help buy apartments in London and enrich entities he controlled.
The bank yesterday won permission from a judge to add new claims
to the case, alleging that Akingbola wrongfully directed the
lender to buy its own shares, resulting in a loss.  
 The money was “misappropriated by the defendant and is due
to the claimant,” the bank said in court papers. Akingbola used
the money in “breach of fiduciary duty.”  
 The Central Bank of Nigeria said the country had asked the
U.K. to extradite Akingbola so he can face charges, which
include mismanagement of Intercontinental. Companies outside
Britain frequently use London courts to secure global freezes,
including Glitnir Bank hf’s freeze this year on assets of former
Baugur Group hf Chairman  Jon Asgeir Johannesson .  
 Akingbola’s lawyer, Ed Crosse of Osborne Clarke in London,
declined to comment. Akingbola’s defense papers filed March 19
say the alleged transactions were either valid or were
mischaracterized in the lawsuit.  
 ‘False’ Allegations  
 “Those claims are false, and have been made by the bank
without any sincere belief that they are true,” Akingbola said
in the filing.  
 Akingbola has only been able to pay half of his legal fees
of about 1 million pounds. The judge gave Akingbola permission
to sell an $850,000 home in Ghana or two apartments in London
worth a total of about 1 million pounds to begin paying the
remaining costs.  
 Under the freeze order, Akingbola was supposed to be able
to pay for his defense using an HSBC Holdings Plc trustee
account on the island of Guernsey in the English Channel. The
bank declined to release the funds after it was approached by
Nigeria, possibly triggering another legal dispute, Akingbola’s
lawyer said in court.  
 The Nigerian bank’s lawyer,  Segun Osuntokun  of Berwin
Leighton Paisner LLP in London, declined to comment.  
 Akingbola served as the bank’s managing director from 1989
until August, when he was fired. He was among leaders of
Nigeria’s commercial banks that were forced out by the central
bank after the lenders gave out non-performing loans totaling
700 billion naira ($4.65 billion).  
 The  U.K. Home Office  didn’t immediately have a comment
today on Nigeria’s extradition request. Akingbola has been
living in the U.K. since last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        