-- Nomura, Hogarth Davies Settle U.K. Lawsuit Over Fees for Lehman Bank Hires
-- James Lumley
-- 2010-07-14T16:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/nomura-hogarth-davies-settle-u-k-lawsuit-over-fees-for-lehman-bank-hires.html

          
          
             Nomura Holdings Inc.  settled a U.K.
lawsuit brought by an executive-search firm that had claimed the
bank owed it millions of pounds for helping to recruit hundreds
of bankers from  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.   
 The case filed by  Hogarth Davies Lloyd , which was in the
second week of trial in London, was settled today, Nomura
spokeswoman Beth Brophy said in a telephone interview. She
declined to give further details.  
 Nomura acquired Lehman’s operations in Asia and Europe,
including about 8,000  former Lehman workers , after the New York
investment bank filed for bankruptcy in 2008. While Hogarth
Davies asked Justice David Steel to assess damages, the firm
sought as much as 35.1 million pounds ($53.6 million) in a court
filing earlier this year.  
 Hogarth Davies didn’t immediately respond to a phone
message seeking comment.  James Hogarth , one of the firm’s
founders, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail.  
 In court papers, Tokyo-based Nomura said the fee should be
around 2 million pounds and called the sum sought by Hogarth
Davies “commercially absurd.”  
 Hogarth testified last week that the job was “one of the
biggest headhunting exercises the market has ever known.”  
 Executive Search Fee  
 Under a 2007 contract signed by Nomura, the headhunters’
fee for “executive search” was 30 percent of each hired
employee’s “compensation package” for their first year of work
to a maximum of 175,000 pounds, Hogarth Davies lawyer  Justin Fenwick  said during the trial. The fee drops for team members
that a hire brings with them, he said.  
 The firm had helped hire more than 400 Lehman employees, he
said. The fee for many of the hires would reach the 175,000
pounds cap, he said.  
 Nomura’s lawyers said in court documents that Hogarth
Davies didn’t provide “executive search” services. Instead, it
had helped Nomura with its acquisition of Lehman.  
 The case is: Hogarth Davies and Lloyd Ltd. v. Nomura
International Plc, 09-519, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division Commercial Court.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        