-- Northrop Climbs After Saying It's Considering Ship-Unit Sale
-- Gopal Ratnam
-- 2010-07-14T20:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/northrop-studies-sale-of-ship-unit-after-rising-to-navy-s-biggest-builder.html

          
          
             Northrop Grumman Corp. , the largest
maker of U.S. Navy vessels, rose the most in two months in New
York  trading  after saying it’s considering a sale or spinoff of
its shipbuilding unit.  
 Northrop told analysts today it has interested parties and
may take several quarters to decide on the unit’s future. The
plan to consider options, after nine years of expansion, is part
of a strategic review of the company’s businesses, which also
include military aircraft, missile technology and defense
electronics.  
 The ship division may be worth as much as $4.6 billion in a
sale at an average industry multiple, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg. Analysts said dwindling naval orders and a poor fit
for surface ships and submarines with Northrop’s aviation and
electronics products may be driving the move.  
 “It doesn’t take a rocket scientist to look at the Navy’s
shipbuilding plan and see we are not going to make as many
ships” in the future, said  Jon Kutler , chief executive officer
at Admiralty Partners, a Los Angeles-based private-equity firm
specializing in aerospace and defense.  
 Northrop is exploring “a range of alternatives, with a
spinoff being the primary focus,” CEO  Wes Bush  said today on a
webcast with analysts. If the unit is sold, it will be as a
package that includes shipyards in Pascagoula, Mississippi, and
Newport News, Virginia, Bush said.  
 If the company’s decision leads to “more affordable ships,
then it’s a good thing and we’ll support it,” Pentagon
spokesman  Geoff Morrell  said today at a news conference.  
 Northrop rose $1.73, or 3 percent, to $56.99 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading , the most since May
10. The shares have gained 2 percent this year.  
 Litton, Newport News  
 Credit Suisse Group AG will be Northrop’s lead financial
adviser, assisted by  Perella Weinberg Partners LP .  
 Los Angeles-based Northrop, the third-largest U.S. defense
contractor,  acquired  the shipbuilding business of Litton
Industries Inc. in 2001, and bought Newport News Shipbuilding
Inc. a year later after the Justice Department blocked General
Dynamics Corp.’s bid.  
 Besides the Newport News facility, the unit runs yards in
Avondale, Louisiana, and Pascagoula. Avondale will close after
work on LPD-17 class Navy transport ships finishes in 2013, and
operations will be moved to Pascagoula to cut costs and improve
efficiency, Bush said.  
 The company also plans to shut two smaller Louisiana yards
in Tallulah and Waggaman, Bush said.  
 Profit Margin  
 The consolidation of the yards will increase the cost to
finish the two LPD-17 transports now in production at Avondale
by $210 million, Northrop Chief Financial Officer  Jim Palmer 
said. Northrop said it will report $113 million of that amount
as a pretax charge in the second quarter. For the full year the
effect will be $135 million, Palmer said.  
 Shipbuilding profit margin for the year will decline to 4
percent to 4.5 percent from a range of 5 percent to 6 percent
forecast earlier this year, Palmer said.  
 The ship unit generated $6.2 billion of revenue in 2009, or
17 percent of the company’s $33.8 billion total. Bush, who took
over as CEO in January, said in a statement yesterday that he
saw “little synergy between shipbuilding and our other
businesses,” which include Global Hawk unmanned planes, radar
and cyber-security programs. Bush today forecast 2010 ship sales
of about $6.5 billion.  
 General Dynamics is the Navy’s second-largest shipbuilder
by sales.  Lockheed Martin Corp. , the world’s biggest defense
contractor, is leading a team vying for the Navy’s new Littoral
Combat Ships contract, though it wouldn’t build the vessels.  
 Navy Fleet  
 A shrinking naval budget means other defense companies are
unlikely to seek the Northrop unit, said  Peter Arment , a
Gleacher & Co. analyst in Greenwich, Connecticut. The Navy’s 30-
year plan calls for a 313-ship fleet, which isn’t supported by
long-term Pentagon spending projections, he said.  
 “The most likely path is a spinoff, unless private-equity
companies show some interest,” said Arment, who doesn’t rate
Northrop’s  shares .  
 The Navy also may exert control over bidders for the
Northrop yard in Newport News, which makes nuclear-powered
aircraft carriers and submarines, Kutler said. One option may be
for the Navy to run the facility as a government depot, because
companies would find it “hard to make sense of the huge capital
investment needed,” he said.  
 Shipyard Takeovers  
 In 16 shipbuilding takeovers over the past 10 years, the
average multiple was 9.5 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Northrop’s ship unit had $299 million of operating
income in 2009, and depreciation plus amortization of $186
million. The company paid 7.7 times Ebitda for Newport News
Shipbuilding, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Northrop , whose aviation legacy includes the B-2 stealth
bomber, has a ship lineup that includes the LPD-17 class Navy
transports and DDG-51 Arleigh Burke-class destroyers. It
alternates destroyer production with General Dynamics.  
 The shipyard consolidation may help the company improve
profit at the shipbuilding unit, where the 4.8 percent operating
 margin  in 2009 trailed General Dynamics’ 10 percent. Northrop’s
earnings also have been damped by $431 million in charges since
2008 for delays, poor-quality work and damage from Hurricane
Katrina at Avondale and Pascagoula.  
 Northrop was unable to get the “maximum potential of the
shipbuilding within a large defense electronics business,” said
Arment, the Gleacher analyst.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        