-- Novartis to Settle Worker Gender-Discrmination Case for $152.5 Million
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-07-14T23:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/novartis-reaches-152-5-million-sex-bias-settlement-with-female-workers.html

          
          
             Novartis AG ’s U.S. unit agreed to
pay as much as $152.5 million to settle a gender-discrimination
class action brought by female workers.  
 As part of the settlement, Novartis will distribute money
to eligible class members and spend an additional $22.5 million
over three years to improve its personnel policies, the Basel,
Switzerland-based drugmaker said today in a statement.  
 The settlement, which was filed in federal court in
Manhattan today, follows a May 19 jury verdict in the case
awarding $250 million in punitive damages to a group of 5,600
employees. The settlement must be approved by the judge
overseeing the case before it can take effect.  
 “The terms of this agreement allow for full compensation
of both former and current female field force employees,
ensuring that every woman who worked at Novartis over the past
eight years has been compensated fairly,”  David Sanford , lead
counsel for the plaintiffs, said in the statement.  
 The settlement wipes out the May verdict, which was subject
to challenge in post-trial motions or on appeal.  
 “While we believe that there was not systemic
discrimination at NPC, the trial revealed that some of our
associates had experiences influenced by managerial behavior
inconsistent with our values,”  Joe Jimenez , Novartis AG’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  
 Attorneys’ Fees  
 As part of the settlement, Novartis won’t oppose a request
by the class attorneys for $40.1 million in fees and expenses,
which must be approved by the judge.  
 The settlement money will go to the class, which is made up
of current and former women employees who held sales positions
at Novartis from July 15, 2002, until today.  
 Of the settlement amount, $60 million is allocated for back
pay and an estimated $40 million for compensatory damages.
Additional payments will go to named plaintiffs and class
members who testified in the case.  
 The settlement provides that any unclaimed settlement
payments will go back to Novartis. And the company has the right
to revoke the settlement if 10 percent of the class members opt
out of the settlement.  
 The settlement must be approved by U.S. District Judge
 Colleen McMahon  after a fairness hearing set for Nov. 19.  
 Pay, Promotion  
 The suit was filed in 2004 by Amy Velez and four other
women who claimed they faced discrimination over pay and
promotion and for pregnancy. A jury found Novartis liable for
discrimination May 17 and awarded $3.4 million in damages to 12
of the women. Two days later, the same jury awarded $250 million
in punitive damages against Novartis.  
 In addition to paying the women in the class, Novartis said
it has agreed to revise its sexual harassment policies and
training, strengthen its employee complaint process, hire an
outside specialist to help it identify gender pay disparities in
the company and revise its performance management process.  
 The case is Velez v. Novartis Corp., 04-cv-09194, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        