-- Nova Scotia Sells First U.S. Denominated Debt in 3 Years: Canada Credit
-- Christopher Donville
-- 2010-07-14T04:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/nova-scotia-sells-first-u-s-denominated-debt-in-3-years-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Nova Scotia sold bonds denominated
in U.S. dollars for the first time in three years as Canada’s
second-smallest province seeks to diversify sources of funding
for its budget deficit.  
 The $750 million of five-year notes were priced yesterday
to yield 34 basis points above the mid-swap rate or 60.25 basis
points over U.S. government benchmarks, according to a statement
from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The 2.375 percent bonds
mature in July 2015. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 “This is the first time in a long time that we saw an
opportunity to swap back to a cost equivalent to our domestic
cost of funding,”  Peter Urbanc , Nova Scotia’s executive
director of liability management and treasury services, said in
a telephone interview. “U.S. investors are looking for all the
diversification they can find in the high-grade market.”  
 Ontario paid 40 basis points over the mid-swap rate in June
when it sold $2.5 billion of 2.7 percent U.S. dollar  bonds 
maturing in five years. Bank of America was joint lead manager
along with Bank of Nova Scotia and Toronto-Dominion Bank of
yesterday’s Nova Scotia sale.  
 Relative yields on provincial bonds over federal benchmarks
have narrowed as supply dwindles, economic data confirms
Canada’s recovery and reduced concern over Europe’s debt crisis
eases demand for the safety of sovereign debt. The extra yield
investors demand to own provincial debt narrowed yesterday to 60
basis points, the least since May 17, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data.  
 Quebec, TransForce  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canadian corporations rather than the
federal government narrowed to 144 basis points yesterday, from
149 a week before, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index. Overall yields rose to 4.078 percent, from 4.043 percent
on July 12.  
 Quebec sold C$500 million ($485 million) of debt yesterday
in a reoffering of its 4.5 percent bonds due in December 2020,
bringing the total outstanding to C$2 billion. The bonds priced
to yield 98 basis points over federal benchmarks.  
 TransForce Inc.  reached an agreement in principle yesterday
with a 15-lender syndicate for a C$650 million credit facility,
comprising a C$200 million five-year term loan and a C$450
million revolving line of credit, the Montreal-based trucking
company said in a statement.  
 Nova Scotia, the second smallest by area of Canada’s 10
provinces after Prince Edward Island, lies about 900 miles
northeast of New York on the Atlantic coast. Known for its
lobster, it is also the birthplace of hockey player  Sidney Crosby  of the National Hockey League’s Pittsburgh Penguins.
Halifax, the capital, was the site of a 1917 World War I
accidental explosion that killed more than 2,000 people.  
 ‘Halo Effect’  
 The five-year domestic debt of Nova Scotia yields 53 basis
points over federal benchmarks, the fourth-highest borrowing
costs among the nation’s 10 provinces, according to indicative
new-issue spreads compiled by  Jean-Francois Godin  at Desjardins
Securities Inc. in Montreal. Ontario, Quebec and Prince Edward
Island pay more, at 54 basis points, 54 and 56, respectively.  
 Provincial Finance Minister  Graham Steele  on April 7
forecast a C$222 million deficit this fiscal year for Nova
Scotia, compared with a C$488 million gap last year. The
province aims to issue C$2 billion in bonds, budget papers
showed.  
 “Today’s U.S. deal was very good economically for Nova
Scotia,” Desjardins’  Godin  said by e-mail yesterday.  
 Nova Scotia had offers of C$1.3 billion from 74 buyers, for
an oversubscription ratio of 58 percent. Most of the buyers were
from the U.S., with about 10 percent in Europe and the Middle
East, including “a few European central banks,” Urbanc said.  
 “I was really surprised by how strong and how quickly and
deeply the book built,” he said. “We benefited from the halo
effect of Canada.”  
 The U.S. dollar deal was swapped back into Canadian dollars
to eliminate foreign-exchange risk, Urbanc said. Today’s issue
marks only the third time Nova Scotia has tapped the U.S. dollar
global markets, with issues in 2007 and in 2002, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Donville  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        