-- NTPC Seeks to Buy Overseas Coal Mines to Supply 10 Million Tons of Fuel
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-07-14T11:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/ntpc-seeks-to-buy-overseas-coal-mines-to-supply-10-million-tons-of-fuel.html

          
          
             NTPC Ltd. , Asia’s second-biggest
electricity generator by market value, is seeking to buy coal
mines overseas that may help source as much as 67 percent of the
company’s current imports of the fuel.  
 The utility based in New Delhi will use part of its $3
billion in  cash reserves  and also raise debt to fund the
purchase of mines in Australia, Indonesia and Mozambique that
can supply as much as 10 million metric tons of coal a year,
Chairman  R.S. Sharma  said by telephone today.  
 “Having your own mines, above all, ensures consistency of
supplies,”  Novonil Guha , a Mumbai-based analyst with Brics
Securities who has an “outperform” rating on the stock, said
by telephone. “Having their own mines shields them from being
exposed to the volatility of international coal prices.”  
 Indian energy companies are seeking to acquire assets
across the world as demand from its 1.2 billion people rises and
companies build more factories. State-owned  Coal India Ltd. , the
world’s largest producer, may buy mines abroad to supply the
equivalent of 8 percent of domestic output, according to Alok
Perti, additional secretary to the coal ministry.  
 NTPC shares have  declined  15 percent this year compared
with a 3 percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive Index . The
stock fell 0.2 percent to 199.15 rupees in Mumbai trading today.  
 “Imports are rising at 10 percent every year and it makes
sense to have our own mines overseas from where we can bring
good quality coal,” Sharma said. “We shouldn’t have any
problems funding these acquisitions.” NTPC imports about 15
million tons of coal every year, he said.  
 Coal Demand  
 Power-station coal prices at Australia’s Newcastle port, an
Asian benchmark, fell 1.3 percent to $97.06 a metric ton in the
week ended July 9. That’s a 15 percent increase from $84.75 in
the week ended Jan. 1.  
 Coal demand in India, Asia’s third-largest energy consumer,
may double from 2008 to 2015 to exceed 1 billion tons, Wood
Mackenzie said on July 1.  
 India’s annual coal output of 535 million tons will fall
short of demand from power generators by as much as 80 million
tons by next year, Perti said in an interview July 7. Coal is
used to fire more than half of India’s current installed
generation capacity, according to the  Central Electricity
Authority .  
 India proposes to add 78,000 megawatts of electricity-
generating capacity in the five years to March 2012 and 100,000
megawatts in the following five years.  
 NTPC plans to issue tenders for boilers and turbines for
nine units of 800 megawatts each in August or September, Sharma
said. This tender, along with one for 11 units of 660 megawatts
each, is likely to be awarded in the year ending March, he said.  
 The utility will send a team of executives to Australia to
look at possible coal mining investments, Sharma said last month.
NTPC was set to acquire a controlling interest in a coal field
near Perth, the Economic Times reported on June 3.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        