-- Obama Aides Fire Back After Chamber Says He `Vilifies' Business
-- Mark Drajem
-- 2010-07-15T18:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/obama-has-vilified-business-as-economy-suffers-chamber-of-commerce-says.html

          
          
             The U.S. Chamber of Commerce said
President  Barack Obama ’s administration has “vilified”
businesses, and the president’s aides fought back with a vow not
to settle for lax regulation of banks and oil companies.  
 The exchanges waged across Lafayette Square in Washington
yesterday reflect renewed confrontation between the Chamber, the
largest U.S. business lobbying group, and an administration that
has sought to defuse corporate opposition to its regulatory
policies.  
 The Chamber held a “Jobs Summit” to promote its views and
sent Obama a letter saying the cooperative efforts that produced
stimulus legislation early in 2009 have given way to
confrontation over tax and regulatory policies that risk pushing
the economy into a double-dip recession.  
 “Instead of continuing their partnership with the business
community and embracing proven ideas for job creation, they
vilified industries while embarking on an ill-advised course of
government expansion, major tax increases, massive deficits, and
job-destroying regulations,” the Chamber said in the letter.  
 White House Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel  and Senior Adviser
 Valerie Jarrett  responded hours later with their own letter,
saying weak regulation during President  George W. Bush ’s
administration led to the financial crisis that threw the
economy into the worst decline since the 1930s.  
 Emanuel and Jarrett wrote the Chamber that they were
“surprised and disappointed” by the group’s rhetoric. The
administration has focused “every single day” on creating jobs
and wants to work with business to do so, the aides said.  
 Economic, Environment Crises  
 “We will not, however, accept the lax regulation of the
financial industry that led to the greatest economic crisis
since the Great Depression,” they said in the letter. “And we
will not stand by while oil and gas companies continue to fight
needed changes to outdated regulations that are partially
responsible for one of the worst environmental crises in
American history.”  
 Obama hosted his own meetings with business leaders at the
White House yesterday. He discussed the economy with Berkshire
Hathaway Inc.’s  Warren Buffett , who was an adviser to Obama’s
presidential campaign.  
 Obama, Vice President  Joe Biden  and former President  Bill Clinton  also conferred separately with Bank of America Corp.
Chief Executive Officer  Brian Moynihan  and Honeywell
International Inc. Chairman  David Cote , according to White House
spokesman  Robert Gibbs .  
 ‘Eye Off the Ball’  
 The Chamber, which spent more than $30 million lobbying
this year, believes the prospect of pending health, financial,
environmental and other regulations is stifling business
spending and curtailing the economic recovery,  Tom Donohue , the
organization’s president, said at its conference.  
 Congress and “the administration took their eye off the
ball,” Donohue said. “They embarked on a course of rapid
government expansion, major tax increases and suffocating
regulations -- going well beyond what had to be done to keep the
economy out of a depression.”  
 Efforts by the administration to overhaul health care, Wall
Street and oil regulations has led to companies being
“demonized,” Donohue said.  
 ‘Volatile Rhetoric’  
 Another business group, the Financial Services Roundtable,
expressed similar concerns today about Obama’s approach.  
 “The administration and others went way too far in their
highly negative and volatile rhetoric against the financial
industry,”  Steve Bartlett , president of the group, told
reporters in Washington. “It doesn’t help the economy.”  
 Stan Anderson , managing director of the Chamber’s Campaign
for Free Enterprise, said the group wants the government to
raise revenue without increasing individual taxes, such as
reinstituting a tax holiday on corporations’ overseas income. A
2004 tax holiday let companies that stockpiled dollars overseas
bring the money into the U.S. at a rate of 5.25 percent instead
of the 35 percent they otherwise would owe.  
 The Chamber also is urging sales of minerals and timber on
government land, which it says could raise more than $1
trillion.  
 The organization wants Obama to support continuing the tax
cuts enacted under Bush in 2001 and 2003.  
 The cost of extending the cuts for the most prosperous
Americans would be about $55 billion for a year. Obama
campaigned for the presidency saying he would preserve middle-
class tax cuts while letting taxes on the rich rise to previous
levels.  
 One of the best things Obama could do for the economic
outlook would be to declare today that those taxes will not be
raised until the economy is back at full health, Donohue said.  
 “In one bold move, this would substantially boost
investor, business, and consumer confidence and infuse our
economy with fresh momentum,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Congress and “the administration took their eye off the ball,” Tom Donohue, the Chamber of Commerce president, said at a “Jobs Summit” it held in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Chamber of Commerce President Thomas Donohue talks about the "uncertainty" over pending regulations and its impact on the U.S. economy.
     Donohue, speaking on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop With Betty Liu," also discusses labor market policies and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's relationship with the White House. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan talks with Judy Woodruff about what Congress should do about tax cuts enacted under President George W. Bush that are set to expire at the end of the year and the budget deficit. (This is an excerpt of the full interview to air this weekend on "Conversations With Judy Woodruff." Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    


 
     
         Attachment:  Letter From Emanuel and Jarrett 
     
 



 
     
         Attachment:  Chamber Letter to Obama 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
