-- Obama Must Define Afghan War Goals, Senators Tell Holbrooke
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-07-14T23:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/obama-needs-to-define-afghan-war-objectives-u-s-senators-tell-holbrooke.html

          
          
             Senators concerned about the
direction of American efforts in Afghanistan said President
 Barack Obama  and his officials need to define U.S. objectives
there before a planned 2011 drawdown of troops.  
 Republican and Democratic senators told Obama’s special
envoy to Afghanistan and Pakistan,  Richard Holbrooke , at a
hearing yesterday that they don’t understand how progress on
civilian projects is being measured or how they would back
military aims.  
 “We need a better definition of exactly what success is in
Afghanistan,” said the Senate Foreign Relations Committee’s
chairman, Senator  John Kerry , a Democrat from Massachusetts.
“We absolutely need to understand what the political situation
is and how we get there.”  
 The committee’s hearing, which focused on the civilian
development plan in Afghanistan, comes before Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  travels to the July 20 Kabul Conference. At that
gathering, Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  is expected to present
plans for strengthening governance and accountability, the rule
of law, and social and economic development.  
 U.S., Afghan and allied forces are trying to degrade the
Taliban militia in its southern Afghanistan stronghold while
building up the Karzai government’s ability to secure the
country.  
 Yesterday Karzai and his National Security Council
announced their endorsement of a U.S.-backed plan to set up
local police forces, according to a statement from Karzai’s
office. The police would report to the Interior Ministry and
work in remote areas where villagers aren’t able to defend
themselves.  
 Rule of Law  
 To help improve the rule of law, all militias operating
outside the Interior Ministry will be gradually disbanded and
incorporated into the Local Police Forces when and where
necessary, the statement said.  
 As senators pushed Holbrooke on a date for the end of U.S.
involvement, the veteran diplomat said Afghanistan will need
support even after troops leave as the impoverished nation
builds its economy and security apparatus.  
 Holbrooke cautioned against a rush for the exits. “There’s
a direct correlation between Afghanistan, Pakistan and our
homeland security,” Holbrooke said. “I’m very leery of setting
an endpoint.”  
 The envoy pointed to projects on agricultural production
and the reduction of opium poppy production. He also noted a
major effort to wire areas such as Kandahar for electricity.  
 Seeking Benchmarks  
 Senators from both parties pushed Holbrooke to give them
benchmarks for the civilian efforts in Afghanistan and to say
how and when the U.S. could leave.  
 “I just don’t hear any clarity,” said Senator  Bob Corker 
of Tennessee, a Republican. “I have no earthly idea what our
objectives are on the civilian front.”  
 Indiana Republican Senator  Richard Lugar  said he had little
confidence about progress before July 2011. “Absent a major
realignment on the ground, it’s unrealistic to expect that a
significant downsizing of U.S. forces could occur at that time
without security consequences,” he said.  
 Holbrooke told senators that the July 2011 date wasn’t a
deadline for troop withdrawals and instead marked the beginning
of departures. “And they will begin,” Holbrooke said,
depending on what Obama hears from his generals about security
conditions.  
 “If we walk away from Afghanistan as we did 20 years ago,
the consequences will be catastrophic,” Holbrooke said,
referring to the end of U.S. support for Afghanistan during its
battle to end Soviet occupation.  
 “I hope when we talk about end-state, we talk about a
sustainable end-state which includes continued American economic
and development assistance,” Holbrooke said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     General David Petraeus speaks during a Senate Armed Services Committee in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
