-- Obama Meets With Warren Buffett to Discuss Economic Growth, Job Creation
-- Kate Andersen Brower
-- 2010-07-14T22:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/obama-meets-with-warren-buffett-to-discuss-economic-growth-job-creation.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  met today
with Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s  Warren Buffett  to discuss the
economy and conferred separately with business leaders including
 Bank of America  Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Brian Moynihan  and
 Honeywell International Inc . Chairman  David Cote , a White House
official said.  
 Obama and Buffett  discussed how to work with the private
sector to stimulate growth and create jobs, White House
spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said. Buffett, 79, was an adviser to
Obama’s presidential campaign.  
 The two men “spoke about the economy in a fairly lengthy
meeting,” Gibbs said. “He wanted to come in and see the
president and we don’t turn down the opportunity to talk to
Warren Buffett.” Obama also gave Buffett one of his ties
because Buffett’s was frayed, another White House aide said.  
 In the later meeting, Obama, with Vice President  Joe Biden 
and former President  Bill Clinton , met for an hour with business
leaders about how to create jobs, how the government can work
with private industry to encourage clean energy, and agreed that
making buildings more energy efficient should be a top priority,
one of the officials said.  
 Obama has been trying to bolster relations with corporate
leaders, recruiting executives for presidential committees and
inviting business leaders to lunch at the White House as some
business organizations have battled the administration on issues
such as financial regulation and the overhaul of the health-care
system.  
 Chamber Summit  
 The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the biggest lobbying group for
U.S. business, held a summit on job creation today and is urging
the president to curb regulations and continue the Bush
administration’s tax cuts to avert a double-dip recession.  
 Chamber President  Tom Donohue  said the uncertainty of
pending regulations on health care, the environment and
financial services is weighing on businesses, dampening the
economic outlook.  
 White House Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel  and White House
senior adviser  Valerie Jarrett  said today they were “surprised
and disappointed” at rhetoric from some in the business
community.  
 ‘Very Different Place’  
 “It is clear that we are in a very different place than we
were 18 months ago,” Emanuel and Jarrett said in a letter to
the chamber. The two officials said the administration is
working with Congress to cut taxes and increase credit for small
businesses.  
 “We are all working toward the same goal of putting
Americans back to work and getting our economy back on track,”
the letter said. “The stakes are far too high for us to be
working against one another.”  
 Obama’s afternoon meeting also included  Mark Gallogly ,
founder and managing partner of Centerbridge Partners LP;  David Myers , a vice president and president of building efficiency,
 Johnson Controls Inc .;  Jeffrey Eckel , chief executive of Hannon
Armstrong, and David Anderson, executive vice president of
business development, Ameresco Inc., a renewable energy company
in Melville, New York, according to a White House statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Buffett and Obama discuss the economy in the Oval Office of the White House. Photographer: Pete Souza/White House via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
