-- Oil Imports Dropping From Record as China Curbs Refining: Energy Markets
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-14T08:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/oil-imports-dropping-from-record-as-china-curbs-refining-energy-markets.html

          
          
             Chinese oil imports may decline from
this month’s record high as waning energy demand reduces
refining profits.  
 Monthly imports may decline at least 19 percent to 18
million metric tons in the second half, from a record 22.3
million tons in June, according to  Wang Aochao , a former Exxon
Mobil Corp. marketing official who heads China energy research
at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. in Shanghai. Refining profits at state-
owned  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. , or Sinopec, sank almost
90 percent from May to June, a company official said.  
 Shipments of oil to China, the world’s second-biggest
energy consumer after the U.S., are poised to slow as Premier
 Wen Jiabao  damps growth to curb inflation. The economy may
expand 10.1 percent this year, according to the median of 27
economists’ forecasts compiled by a Bloomberg. Consumer prices
rose 3.1 percent in the year to May.  
 “Slowing demand from China would put a lot of downward
pressure on crude and reinforce concerns among traders,” said
 Victor Shum , a senior principal at energy consultants Purvin &
Gertz Inc. in Singapore. “It’s going to raise alarm bells.”  
 Crude futures have dropped 2.7 percent in New York this
year partly on concern that Europe’s debt crisis will curb
demand for commodities as the world recovers from its deepest
recession since World War II. Oil for August delivery rose 2.9
percent to $77.15 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange
yesterday.  
 Sinopec Profit  
 Sinopec may cut processing volumes by more than 100,000
tons to 17.5 million tons in July, or 4 million barrels a day,
according to a company official, who declined to be identified
because of internal rules. The Beijing-based company supplies
about 60 percent of China’s fuels.  
 Huang Wensheng , a Sinopec spokesman, wasn’t able to comment
on the figures when reached by phone.  Mao Zefeng , a spokesman
for PetroChina Co., the country’s second-biggest refiner, also
declined to comment on processing rates.  
 Sinopec shares in Hong Kong fell 0.3 percent to close at
HK$6.16, while the benchmark Hang Seng Index climbed 0.6 percent.  
 China’s net imports of crude climbed to a record last month
after refiners and state-owned companies took advantage of
declining costs to increase stockpiles. Refining volumes rose to
an all-time high of 35.8 million tons in May as imports fell to
17.84 million, a four-month low, according to customs data.  
 “We see refineries’ utilization rate falling from May’s
record as economic expansion drops faster than market
expectations,” said UOB-Kay Hian’s Wang. “Right now we don’t
see any turning point for the oil-processing rate to pick up.”  
 Vehicle Sales  
 Passenger-car sales in China rose at the slowest pace in 15
months in June, official data showed. In June, power consumption
rose at the slowest pace since February because of weakening
demand from heavy industries, government data shows. Demand rose
14 percent from a year earlier to 352 billion-kilowatt hours.  
 China, which controls fuel costs to curb inflation, cut
gasoline and diesel prices by 3 percent on June 1. The
government typically reduces oil-product prices when crude drops
by more than 4 percent over a 22 working-day period.  
 The average price of the Dubai, Brent and Cinta benchmark
grades monitored by the government declined 3.7 percent in the
22 days to July 12, according to Shanghai-based commodity
researcher CBI China Co.  
 “There is definitely an oversupply of fuel in the
wholesale and retail markets,” said Jay Chi, chief analyst at
Guangzhou Twinace Petroleum & Chemical Corp. “Inventories are
high and so is the pressure to sell.”  
 -- Winnie Zhu ,  Baizhen Chua . Editors:  Ang Bee Lin ,  Jane Lee .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net ;
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        