-- Omnia Says It's Interested in Buying Fertilizer Blending Plants From Sasol
-- Carli Lourens
-- 2010-07-14T16:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/omnia-says-it-s-interested-in-buying-fertilizer-blending-plants-from-sasol.html

          
          
             Omnia Holdings Ltd. , southern
Africa’s largest fertilizer supplier, said it expressed an
interest in buying some of the fertilizer blending plants that
Sasol Ltd. may sell to settle antitrust concerns.  
 It’s too early to say which of the five South African
plants Omnia is interested in,  Trevor Grant , managing director
of Omnia Fertilizer, said in an interview in Pretoria today.  
 Sasol  said on July 5 it offered to dispose of the plants as
part of a settlement agreement to ease antitrust concerns that
it may have abused its dominance. The agreement, reached with
the Competition Commission will be upheld or dismissed by the
Competition Tribunal, a higher antitrust authority, “in due
course,” Sasol said in a statement today.  
 The company has received queries from 15 parties interested
in buying the plants, spokeswoman  Jacqui O’Sullivan  said in a
text message today, declining to name the parties. The proposed
disposals could cut Sasol’s annual sales by as much as 300
million rand ($40 million), it said on July 5.  
 Omnia rose  14 cents, or 0.2 percent, to 60.19 rand in
Johannesburg, while Sasol rose 2.85 rand, or 1 percent, to
286.35 rand.  
 Omnia objected to the settlement agreement in its current
form at a hearing by the Competition Tribunal today, while
 African Explosives Ltd.  requested minor changes.  
 While  Omnia  is “generally quite happy” with the terms of
the proposed settlement, it objects to the current form of the
agreement because it doesn’t allow companies or individuals to
claim damages from Sasol for contravening competition laws,
Omnia’s legal representative, Jerome Wilson, said at the
hearing.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        