-- London Stock Exchange First-Quarter Revenue Rises 0.8% on Technology Sales
-- Nandini Sukumar
-- 2010-07-14T15:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/london-stock-exchange-first-quarter-revenue-rises-0-8-on-technology-sales.html

          
          
             London Stock Exchange Group Plc 
reported fiscal first-quarter sales rose 0.8 percent, as
Europe’s largest bourse by value of listed companies made more
money from technology.  
 Revenue for the three months ended June 30 advanced to
158.2 million pounds ($241 million), from 157 million pounds in
the same period a year earlier, LSE said in a Regulatory News
Service statement today. Revenue from technology rose to 12.7
million pounds from 6.6 million pounds last year. Sales from
capital markets, where LSE makes money from company listings and
trading, dropped six percent to 74.2 million pounds.  
 “Looking ahead, we are planning on the basis of market
conditions remaining mixed,” LSE said today. “Management
actions continue to improve business efficiency and competitive
position, with immediate focus on introduction of the new
trading system and development of new services across the group
to grow the business.”  
 Since starting in May last year, LSE Chief Executive
Officer  Xavier Rolet  has been trying to diversify LSE’s business
and stem its loss of market share to multilateral trading
facilities such as Bats Europe and Chi-X Europe Ltd.  Rolet 
bought Colombo, Sri Lanka-based MillenniumIT last year to
overhaul LSE’s technology. Millennium will replace LSE’s current
TradElect system.  
 Fees, Executives  
 Rolet has also changed fees, taken a majority stake in
Turquoise, an MTF backed by investment banks, and hired
executives including  Pinar Emirdag , a former Turquoise board
member and Citigroup Inc. executive, and  Antoine Shagoury ,
former chief information officer of the American Stock Exchange.  
 LSE today said its share of trading of U.K. stocks rose in
the first quarter, with an average 62.4 percent of total cash
equities trading compared with 60 percent in April. Turquoise
had a 5.4 percent market share in June compared with 4.3 percent
in April, LSE said.  
 LSE shares rose 22 pence, or 3.6 percent, to 626.5 pence in
London trading today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        