-- Mother Robbing Bank Shows Why Italy Leads EU Thefts
-- Flavia Rotondi
-- 2010-07-15T04:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/mother-robbing-bank-with-infant-in-tow-shows-why-italy-leads-eu-in-thefts.html

          
          
             Italy’s biggest banks rank no higher
than ninth in Europe by market value. They come in first by
another yardstick: robberies.  
 Heists at Italian banks accounted for almost half of all
thefts in the European Union last year, according to a  June 30
report  by banking union FIBA. The report concluded that Italian
banks have too much cash on hand at too many branches.  
 Italy recorded 1,744 bank robberies last year, more than
six times the number in Germany and 20 times the U.K. figure,
FIBA reported. Italian banks lost 36.8 million euros ($46.8
million) to thieves last year, according to data compiled by
Italian banking association ABI.  
 “The less that cash circulates in branches, the fewer
robberies we’ll have,” said  Pierfrancesco Gaggi , the Rome-based
head of infrastructure at ABI, in an interview.  
 The abundance of branches in neighborhoods with minimal
police presence makes Italian banks easy picking for thieves,
said Alessandro Spaggiari, FIBA’s national secretary in Rome.  
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA , Italy’s biggest bank by branches, has
5,921 outlets in its home market, more than twice as many as
France’s BNP Paribas SA and about 1,000 more than  Banco
Santander SA  has in its Spanish network.  
 Santander is Europe’s second-largest bank by market value
after London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc  and Paris-based BNP Paribas
is third, while Milan-based Intesa places 14th, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  UniCredit SpA  is Italy’s biggest bank with a
market value of 39.9 billion euros, ranking ninth in the region
after Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group AG.  
 Surveillance Breakdown  
 Italian banks spend more than 700 million euros a year on
anti-theft equipment such as closed-circuit cameras and alarms,
Spaggiari said. Little of the funds go to smaller branches,
since those locations have relatively limited amounts of cash,
he said.  
 That suits crooks, as most Italian bank robberies are
small-time jobs, with two out of three heists bringing in less
than 15,000 euros, according to a June 10 report from the  ABI .
Many of the perpetrators are amateurs, often armed with little
more than knives.  
 A 41-year-old mother robbed three banks in the Turin area
in one day in May, while her seven-month-old infant waited in
the car.  
 “I haven’t got a steady job,” the Turin thief told police
when she was arrested after her fourth attempted holdup of the
day. “I didn’t know how to get by with a small child.” Police
have declined to disclose her identity.  
 Poor and Homeless  
 With  unemployment  approaching 9 percent and the economy
only now emerging from its worst recession since World War II,
robberies by “desperate people” are on the increase, said
Mario Furlan, founder of Milan-based  CityAngel , a non-profit
organization that helps the poor and homeless. In many
underprivileged neighborhoods, robbing a bank isn’t even
considered a crime, Furlan said.  
 The ABI is trying to get Italians, who like using cash, to
switch to credit cards and other non-cash instruments to improve
security and bring Italy in line with the rest of Europe.
Italians make an average  66 non-cash transactions  per person
every year, about one third of the euro-zone average and four
times less than in the U.K, according to a  Bank of Italy report .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Rotondi  in Rome at 
 frotondi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        