-- Owner of London's Regent Street May Revive Sale of Stake in Shopping Strip
-- Simon Packard
-- 2010-07-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/owner-of-london-s-regent-street-may-revive-sale-of-stake-in-shopping-strip.html

          
          
             The British monarchy’s property
manager may revive a plan to sell a stake in  Regent Street ,
in the heart of London’s West End shopping district.  
 The Crown Estate, which oversees real estate that the
monarchy handed over in 1760 in exchange for annual payments, is
sounding out investors including sovereign wealth funds and
pension funds to gauge demand, Chief Executive Officer  Roger Bright  said. It may present a proposal to its board “in a
matter of months,” he said.  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc.  is
advising on the possible sale.  
 This is the second attempt in a year by  Crown Estate  to
raise money for a redevelopment of Regent Street costing an
estimated 750 million pounds ($1.1 billion). Its board  blocked
proposals  in September to establish a fund that would sell units
to investors, citing its complexity, Bright said.  
 “We are looking at more straightforward ways to include
third-party capital,” Bright said in an interview at Crown
Estate’s headquarters behind Regent Street. “We are at the
stage of expressions of interest; we haven’t yet got to the
decision stage.”  
 Regent Street, between Piccadilly Circus and Oxford Street,
is Crown Estate’s biggest asset. While the trust has
partnerships with developers for individual sites, it’s
considering bringing in long-term investors that would share its
vision for Regent Street as a whole, Bright said.  
 The street, with more than 350,000 square meters (3.77
million square feet) of mostly retail and office space, was
valued at 1.6 billion pounds in Crown Estate’s accounts for the
financial year ended March 31, published today. It appreciated
by 240 million pounds from the previous financial year and now
represents 24 percent of Crown Estate’s assets.  
 Royal Estates  
 The value of the entire portfolio, including royal estates
first registered in the  Domesday Book  in 1086, climbed by more
than 10 percent in fiscal 2010 to 6.6 billion pounds. The
previous year, the properties lost value for the first time
since 1993.  
 Crown Estate owns the freehold of Regent Street, which was
finished in 1825 in one of the biggest projects in central
London’s history as a dedicated shopping strip separating the
neighborhoods of Mayfair and Soho. Apple Inc., Hamleys Plc and
Burberry Group Plc all have stores there.  
 As the freeholder, Crown Estate may sell a site for a
specific period of time, known as a leasehold, and receives
regular income in the form of ground rent. Once a leasehold
lapses, the site and the buildings on it revert to the
freeholder unless a renewal is granted at an additional cost. A
leaseholder collects rent from the tenants occupying buildings
on the site.  
 ‘Keep Control’  
 “We are anxious not to lose control of Regent Street,”
Bright said. Crown Estate will probably seek to retain control
of the freehold of the street, according to the CEO.  
 What may appeal to investors is the resilience of prime
retail properties during the  U.K. recession  that ended in the
last quarter of 2009. The West End has London’s biggest
concentration of theaters, luxury stores and restaurants. The
 pound’s weakness  has also helped draw tourists.  
 In May, retail sales on Bond Street, Oxford Street and
Regent Street rose 6.2 percent from a year earlier, according to
the latest index compiled for the  New West End Co . group by
market researcher Springboard.  
 Average rents for retailers that lease prime buildings on
Regent Street were 475 pounds a square foot at the end of June,
or 5.6 percent more than a year earlier, CB Richard Ellis
estimates. Regent Street is the ninth most expensive shopping
street in London in rental terms.  
 Quadrant Project  
 The proceeds of any sale would help finance the  Quadrant
project , the redevelopment of Regent Street that will include
the construction of a five-star hotel on the site of the former
Cafe Royal, along with new office and retail space.  
 Crown Estate also needs money to purchase assets outside
London to become less dependent on the U.K. capital. In December
and May, the organization acquired stakes in shopping centers in
the cities of Oxford and Exeter for a total of almost 160
million pounds.  
 The 1956 and 1961 Crown Estates Acts prohibit the
corporation from borrowing or investing in anything other than
U.K. property and government bonds. Any profit from asset sales
is reinvested and net rental income generated by the properties
passes directly to the U.K. Treasury.  
 Crown Estate today reported a 7 percent decline in net
rental income to 210.7 million pounds as a result of lower
interest income. The profit, which isn’t taxed, passes to the
government under the arrangement from 1760, when the monarchy
exchanged its real estate for the yearly payment known as the
civil list.  
 The occupied palaces -- Buckingham Palace and Windsor
Castle -- are managed by the royal household. The Historic Royal
Palaces is a charity that runs the Tower of London, Hampton
Court Palace, Kew Palace, Kensington Palace and the Banqueting
Hall. The private estates of Sandringham and Balmoral are
managed by the Queen’s administrators.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians pass a Burberry outlet in Regent Street, central London. Photographer: Graham Barclay/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Crown Estate Chief Executive Officer Roger Bright. Source: The Crown Estate via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
