-- Oxford Resource Partners Raises $162 Million in Coal Initial Public Offer
-- Kristen Scholer
-- 2010-07-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/oxford-resource-partners-raises-162-million-in-coal-initial-public-offer.html

          
          
             Oxford Resource Partners LP , the
largest producer of surface-mined coal in Ohio, raised $162
million after selling shares near the low end of the price range
in its initial public offering.  
 Oxford Resource priced 8.75 million shares at $18.50 each
after offering them for $18 to $20, according to Bloomberg data
and a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
Columbus, Ohio-based company, which cut the price range of its
offering on July 2 from $19 to $21, will use the proceeds to 
repay debt , make payouts to limited partners and buy equipment,
according to the prospectus.  
 The initial sale was the first after a quarter in which
U.S. companies filed for the most IPOs since 2007 even as deals
worldwide got canceled at the fastest pace since the collapse of
New York-based Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Smart Technologies
Inc., which makes interactive whiteboards for classrooms, will
seek to raise $635 million today, while 3-D film projector maker 
RealD Inc.  will follow tomorrow with a $161 million offering.  
 “They are coming in at sort of a mediocre market,” said
 Timothy Cunningham , who helps oversee about $58 billion at
Thornburg Investment Management in Santa Fe, New Mexico. “It’s
not a market where you can just buy all the IPOs and you’re
going to make money.”  
 Barclays Plc  of London and New York-based Citigroup Inc.
managed the sale for Oxford Resource. The company will start
trading today on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker
OXF.  
 Smart Technologies, Oasis  
 Smart Technologies , the Calgary-based company backed by
Intel Corp. of Santa Clara, California, is planning to sell 35.3
million shares at $16 to $18 each. That would be the third-
biggest IPO in the U.S. this year, Bloomberg data show.  
 Oasis Petroleum Inc.  of Houston raised $676 million in
June, while Almelo, Netherlands-based  Sensata Technologies
Holding NV  sold $654 million of shares in March.  
 Smart Technologies,  RealD  and 88 other companies filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission last quarter to sell
about $23 billion of shares, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The last time more companies announced such plans was in 2007.  
 RealD, the Beverly Hills, California-based company whose 3-
D film projectors and glasses were used to show  James Cameron’s 
“Avatar,” will sell 10.75 million shares for $13 to $15
tomorrow, according to SEC filings and Bloomberg data.  
 Shares of KKR & Co., the New York-based leveraged-buyout
firm founded by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , will start
trading on the New York Stock Exchange tomorrow, and  KKR
Guernsey  will end trading in Amsterdam today. KKR said on July 6
that it may sell additional shares following the New York
listing “subject to market conditions.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristen Scholer  in New York at 
 kscholer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        