-- Palm Oil Advances for Fifth Day on Malaysian Export Data, Indian Outlook
-- Claire Leow
-- 2010-07-14T10:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/palm-oil-advances-for-fifth-day-on-malaysian-export-data-indian-outlook.html

          
          
             Palm oil advanced for a fifth day,
extending gains after shipments from Malaysia climbed more than
estimated in June and an India trader indicated that country’s
imports may rise to meet festival demand.  
 The September-delivery contract increased 1.2 percent to
2,381 ringgit ($744) a metric ton, the highest level in more
than two weeks, on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange. The price
touched an eight-month low on July 7.  
 “Sentiment has changed after the Malaysian Palm Oil Board
released their rather bullish report,” said  Ryan Long , a palm
oil futures dealer at OSK Investment Bank Sdn., referring to the
board’s July 12 release. The figures “caused some panic among
shorts,” said Long, referring to those betting prices will fall.  
 The five days of gains is the best winning run for the
commodity since an eight-day rally that ended Feb. 11.  
 Stockpiles  in Malaysia, the second-largest producer,
dropped in June to a 10-month low of 1.45 million tons, the Palm
Oil Board said in the report. Exports rose 5.5 percent to 1.44
million tons, beating estimates by surveyors Intertek and
Societe Generale de Surveillance.  
 This week, “2,400 ringgit is achievable but I don’t think
we will go” higher than that, Long said. “Demand is there with
China and India, especially China, which has not been buying
from Argentina for some time,” he said, referring to the
country’s ban on buying soybean oil from the South American
producer, the largest exporter of the rival oil, since April.  
 Indian Demand  
 India’s imports of palm and soybean oils in the quarter to
Oct. 31 may total 2.6 million tons, 24 percent more than a year
ago, Govindlal G. Patel, director of Dipak Enterprise, a trader
of vegetable oils, said yesterday. Palm oil may climb to as much
as 2,800 ringgit a ton by November, he said.  
 The combination of an increase in Malaysian shipments and
prospects for higher Indian imports are lifting prices, the
China National Grain and Oils Information Center said today.
India overtook China in 2009 as the biggest buyer of palm oil.  
 Palm oil was also aided by gains in soybeans on the Chicago
Board of Trade. November-delivery soybeans rose for a second day,
gaining 0.3 percent to $9.575 a bushel at 4:34 p.m. in Singapore.  
 CME Group Inc.’s September-delivery palm oil contract,
which is pegged to the Malaysian benchmark price, surged 3
percent to $729.75 a ton yesterday, the best gain since the
contract started trading in May.  
 On the Dalian Commodity Exchange, January-delivery palm oil
climbed 0.9 percent to 6,406 yuan ($945) a ton in Shanghai,
while soybean oil gained 0.5 percent to 7,478 yuan a ton.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claire Leow  in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        