-- Pay Philippine Swaps as Interest Rates, Deficit to Rise, Banco de Oro Says
-- David Yong
-- 2010-07-14T02:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/pay-philippine-swaps-as-interest-rates-deficit-to-rise-banco-de-oro-says.html

          
          
             Investors should pay five-year
Philippine interest-rate swaps before the central bank raises
its benchmark rate and the state budget deficit widens,
according to Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. and Security Bank Corp.  
 Investors can fix peso interest payments at 5.413 percent
for five years in the onshore swap market in anticipation  Bangko
Sentral  ng Pilipinas will start boosting its overnight rate in
the first quarter of next year, said  Dalmacio Martin , an
investment manager at Banco de Oro Unibank Inc., the nation’s
biggest lender by assets. Swap rates may track bond yields
higher on concern the government will sell more debt as the
shortfall in its finances grows, he added.  
 “Given the potential deficit widening, I would be biased
to pay on interest-rate swaps,” Martin said. Banco, controlled
by the Philippines’ richest man, Henry Sy, had previously
projected a 75-basis point increase in the central bank’s key
rate this year.  
 The five-year swap rate reached this year’s low of 5.39
percent after the government on July 6 reported the slowest
inflation in seven months, prompting central bank Governor
Amando Tetangco to say “there does not seem to be an urgency to
move” on borrowing costs. The rate was 5.40 percent as of 10:16
a.m. in Manila and Martin forecast it may climb to 6 percent by
the end of this year.  
 All but one of 14 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
predict the central bank will buck a regional trend by keeping
its overnight rate at 4 percent for a ninth straight policy
meeting tomorrow.  Malaysia , India, South Korea and Taiwan all
raised their benchmarks in the past month and 13 of 19
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg predict the Bank of Thailand
will follow suit today with its first increase since May 2008.  
 Debt Sales  
 Philippine President Benigno Aquino took office on June 30
and his administration last week raised the 2010 budget-deficit
estimate to 325 billion pesos ($7 billion), from the 293.2
billion pesos forecast by his predecessor’s team. The  shortfall 
reached a record 298.5 billion pesos in 2009.  
 The nation may step up sales of local-currency debt this
year as the budget deficit widens, Treasurer  Roberto Tan  said
July 9. The government has announced plans to sell such notes to
overseas investors and aims to sell bonds targeted at
individuals this quarter.  
 The yield on the 6.25 percent bond due January 2014 fell
three basis points to 5.40 percent today, the lowest level since
the note was first sold in January 2009, according to Tradition
Financial Services. It’s dropped 66 basis points, or 0.66
percentage point, this year.  
 Near Bottom  
 “The five-year swap rate is near the bottom and I don’t
see any scope as to how much lower it can go,” said  Rafael Algarra , treasurer at Manila-based Security Bank Corp. “I’m
more inclined to pay swap rates as they are deemed very low,
similar to government bond yields.”  
 The three- and five-year swap may climb by 25 to 50 basis
points by year-end, Algarra forecast. In swap contracts, two
parties exchange a fixed rate for a floating payment that varies
in accordance with a benchmark interest rate.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clarissa Batino  in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        