-- China Stocks Fall Most in 2 Weeks as Growth Slows; Agricultural Bank Gains
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-15T08:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/petrochina-henan-yuguang-china-coal-energy-china-stock-market-preview.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  dropped, with the
benchmark index falling the most in two weeks, after the
nation’s economic growth moderated. Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd. rose on the first day of trading.  
 Jiangxi Copper Co. and  Anhui Conch Cement Co.  declined at
least 1.4 percent after second-quarter growth slowed to 10.3
percent and industrial output rose less than expected.  Zijin
Mining Group Co.  slid 4.2 percent after saying regulators are
investigating the company’s disclosure of an acid leak.
 Agricultural Bank , the country’s largest by customers, gained
0.8 percent, the smallest debut gain among the nine lenders that
have sold shares Shanghai in the past four years.  
 “The risk of a sharper slowdown is inevitable unless the
government reverses tightening measures,” said  Zheng Tuo ,
president of Shanghai Good Hope Equity Investment Management Co.
“The valuation of Agricultural Bank isn’t that attractive.”  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, fell 46.14, or 1.9 percent, to close at
2,424.30, the most since June 29. The gauge has slumped 26
percent in 2010, Asia’s worst performer, as the government
stepped up measures to curb inflation and property speculation.
The  CSI 300 Index  slipped 1.7 percent to 2,608.52, with all 10
industry groups retreating.  
 The Shanghai Composite initially  erased declines  to gain 1
percent after the data was released at 10 a.m. local time,
before losing ground.  
 Economic growth of 10.3 percent was less than the median
10.5 percent estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 28
economists and eased from an 11.9 percent gain in January-March,
statistics bureau data showed.  
 Industrial Output  
 Industrial output rose 13.7 percent, compared with
analysts’ forecasts of 15.1 percent. That was the weakest since
September excluding January and February numbers distorted by a
Lunar New Year holiday.  
 Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal, lost
1.4 percent to 24.93 yuan. Anhui Conch, the nation’s biggest
cement maker, slid 1.6 percent to 16.72 yuan.  China First Heavy
Industries Co. , a maker of equipment used in the mining and
energy industries, retreated 3.2 percent to 5.10 yuan.  
 China’s economy is slowing faster than anticipated, with
retail sales, industrial production and fixed-asset investment
growth weaker than forecast, according to  Mark Williams , senior
China economist at Capital Economics.  
 “Concerns about overheating - which we never thought
justified - have rapidly given way to worries that the economy
is headed for a hard landing,” London-based Williams said in a
report today.  
 Investment, Retail  
 Urban fixed-asset investment  gained 25.5 percent in the
first six months of 2010 from a year earlier, the statistics
bureau said in today’s statement. The pace compares with a 33.6
percent increase in the first half of 2009, when a 4 trillion
yuan fiscal stimulus program was kicking in. Retail sales rose
18.3 percent in June from a year earlier, the bureau said.  
 Agricultural Bank’s first-day gain contrasted with losses
for other lenders. The bank sold shares in China at 2.68 yuan
each as part of an initial public offering that valued the
company at $126 billion. The stock rose 0.8 percent to 2.70.  
 Bank of China Ltd. slid 2.3 percent to 3.45 yuan.
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. retreated 1.7 percent
to 4.18 yuan.  
 Chinese bank lending in the first half was 28 percent
higher than official numbers suggest as more loans were
repackaged into investment products, “distorting” credit data,
Fitch Ratings said yesterday.  
 Sinopec, PetroChina  
 Refiners fell after domestic crude-oil processing increased
the least in eight months.  
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., Asia’s biggest oil
refiner that’s also known as Sinopec, dropped 2.1 percent to
7.95 yuan.  PetroChina Co. , the nation’s biggest oil company,
lost 1.3 percent to 10.28 yuan.  
 Crude processing climbed 11 percent from a year earlier,
according to China Mainland Marketing Research Co. That’s the
slowest pace of growth since the 10 percent increase in October
last year, according to the research company, which compiles
data for the government.  
 A slowdown in China’s economy will test the government’s
resolve to deflate a real-estate bubble, according to Stone &
McCarthy Research Associates’  Tom Orlik . China is unlikely to
raise interest rates this year and the government may consider
“less rigid” application of loan quotas in the second half if
there is a rapid slowdown in growth, he said in an e-mail.  
 Inflation cooled to 2.9 percent in June, reported in
Beijing today. Analysts’ forecasts indicated June inflation of
3.3 percent. In May, consumer prices rose 3.1 percent, the
fastest pace in 19 months.  
 Bull Market  
 Anthony Bolton , Fidelity International’s president for
investment, said conditions are in place for the resumption of a
bull market in Chinese A shares.  
 “We’ve had a bear market for a year,” Bolton said at a
press briefing in Hong Kong. “Valuations are now very
attractive on certain companies. We’ve got all the background
for a new phase of bull market.”  
 Zijin Mining, China’s largest gold producer, lost 4.2
percent to 5.52 yuan. The company said the China Securities
Regulatory Commission will investigate its release of
information about a leak of waste water from a mine in Fujian
province that polluted a local river.  
 Citic Guoan Information Industry Co.  slumped 7.7 percent to
10.40 yuan, the biggest drop since June 29. The company said
first-half net income probably dropped and it may not post a
profit for the period.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Richard Frost ,  Linus Chua   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        