-- PetroChina Unit, BP Assessing `Huge' Coal-Bed Methane Deposit in Xinjiang
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-14T04:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/petrochina-unit-bp-assessing-huge-coal-bed-methane-deposit-in-xinjiang.html

          
          
             PetroChina Co. , the nation’s largest
oil producer, is working with BP Plc to assess a “huge” coal-
bed methane deposit in the northwestern province of Xinjiang, as
companies intensify search for unconventional energy.  
 Tuha Oilfield Co., a unit of PetroChina, and BP’s technical
experts have carried out initial studies of the geological
conditions at the Shaerhu block and completed preparatory work
to evaluate the resource, PetroChina’s parent, China National
Petroleum Corp., said in a  statement  on its website today.  
 PetroChina will accelerate production of gas found on the
surface of coal in the next decade to meet domestic demand for
cleaner-burning fuels, Jie Mingxun, president of the Beijing-
based company’s coal-seam gas unit, said in May. Annual output
may exceed 10 billion cubic meters by 2020 compared with a
projected 4 billion cubic meters by 2015, according to Jie.  
 Coal-bed methane, gas in shale and tight gas held between
rocks are collectively known as unconventional gas resources.
The methane can be extracted from coal when pressure on the
seams is reduced, usually by removing water.  
 The work on the coal-seam gas deposit in the Tuha area is
part of a “new stage of cooperation” between the companies on
coal-bed methane, CNPC said today.  
 PetroChina would welcome cooperation with BP and has
contacted the company to see if there was anything they could
help with following the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, the
Financial Times reported this week, citing the Chinese company’s
spokesman  Mao Zefeng .  
 -- Wang Ying . Editors:  Amit Prakash ,  Ryan Woo .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        