-- Philip Morris Kazakh Suppliers Used Forced Labor, Human Rights Group Says
-- Tom Mulier
-- 2010-07-14T07:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/philip-morris-kazakh-suppliers-used-forced-labor-human-rights-group-says.html

          
          
             Philip Morris International Inc., 
the world’s largest publicly traded tobacco maker, bought
tobacco from farms in Kazakhstan that trapped workers into
forced labor, Human Rights Watch said.  
 Employers at the farms confiscated migrant workers’
passports, didn’t pay regular wages and used child labor, the
non-governmental organization said in a  report  on its website
today. The report was based on interviews with 68 farm workers
in 2009. Philip Morris said it has strengthened its child labor
policies and is stepping up training of employees about migrant-
worker rights.  
 “We found six families who were trapped in situations
amounting to forced labor,” Jane Buchanan, author of the
report, said on the group’s website.  
 Human Rights Watch said it presented its findings to Philip
Morris, which then told the group it would require employers to
provide written contracts and establish regular wages and forbid
them from confiscating passports. The maker of Marlboro
cigarettes said today that it’s “grateful” to Human Rights
Watch for informing the company of the situation in Kazakhstan.  
 “No one should work in unsafe or unlawful conditions and
we are committed to working to prevent child labor, forced labor
and other labor abuses in the tobacco supply chain,” the
company said in a statement.  
 One farm worker, identified as Almira A., said her family
was treated “like slaves,” according to Human Rights Watch.
Her employer, who took her passport, forced the family to do
laundry and paint his house without pay, the report said.  
 “It’s great Philip Morris Kazakhstan and Philip Morris
International want to improve the situation, but that’s going to
require regular independent monitoring and a sustained effort,”
Human Rights Watch’s Buchanan said.  
 Philip Morris said it’s implementing a “third-party
monitoring system” to help track conditions in Kazakhstan.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        