-- Pickens Says BP Is a `Good Buy' on Prospects for Gulf Oil Well's Plugging
-- Kathleen Hays
-- 2010-07-14T20:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/pickens-says-bp-is-a-good-buy-on-prospects-for-gulf-oil-well-s-plugging.html

          
          
             T. Boone Pickens , the billionaire
energy investor, said that  BP Plc  is a good investment as the
shares rebound after losing more than half their value in the
aftermath of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  
 “You’re going to have to stand a little more heat, but I
think they’ll kill the well by mid-August,” Pickens, chairman
of Dallas-based BP Capital LLC, said in a Bloomberg Radio
interview today. “They will further damage their image when
they start the investigation, but today BP is good buy.”  
 BP has lost 48 billion pounds ($73 billion) of its market
value since the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig exploded in the
Gulf of Mexico on April 20, causing the biggest oil spill in
U.S. history. The company agreed last month to set aside $20
billion for cleanup and litigation costs, and said it will sell
assets, reduce spending and cancel its dividend for three
quarters to raise cash.  
 The  shares  fell 9.35 pence, or 2.3 percent, to 401 pence in
London today after BP suspended tests to determine if it can
halt the leak before efforts to permanently plug it are
completed next month. BP, based in London, reached a five-week
high yesterday of 410.4 pence.  
 The company’s  American depositary receipts  fell 70 cents,
or 1.9 percent, to $36.18 at 4 p.m. in composite trading on the
New York Stock Exchange. One receipt represents six ordinary BP
shares.  
 Pickens’s fund held no shares in BP as of the end of March,
according to a regulatory filing. The fund held shares of
 Transocean Ltd. , which leased the Deepwater Horizon rig to BP.
It also owned shares of  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , a partner in
the well, and Halliburton Co., which was contracted to do work
on it.  
 Adding Transocean  
 “We still have the Transocean, I think we added to them,”
Pickens said of the shares today.  
 BP said this week that it may be able to stop the leak with
a newly fitted cap while relief wells are completed that will
permanently kill the well. The company said today it delayed
pressure testing of the cap to give scientists more time to
study the process.  
 Abu Dhabi’s crown prince said yesterday that the emirate is
considering an investment in BP.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Kathleen Hays  in New York 
 Khays4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        