-- Playboy, Founder Hefner Sued by Investor Challenging Stock-Purchase Plan
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-07-14T21:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/playboy-founder-hefner-sued-by-investor-challenging-stock-purchase-plan.html

          
          
             A  Playboy Enterprises Inc .
shareholder sued the magazine publisher and founder  Hugh Hefner ,
claiming Hefner’s plan to purchase the company’s outstanding
shares is “inadequate.”  
 Stockholder Steven Braun’s lawsuit was filed today in an
Illinois state court at Chicago. His is the second suit filed
after Hefner’s July 12  announcement  that he plans to take the
company private by buying all of its outstanding Class A and
Class B stock for $5.50 per share.  
 “The Hefner offer is unfair and inadequate because, among
other things, the intrinsic value of Playboy common stock is
materially in excess of the amount offered,” according to
Braun’s complaint.  
 Shares of Chicago-based Playboy, publisher of the eponymous
magazine known for its centerfold photos of nude women, have
climbed almost 40 percent from its $3.94 July 9 close to $5.51
today in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 Hefner owns 69.5 percent of the company’s Class A shares,
and 27.7 percent of its B shares, according to the July 12
statement issued by Playboy announcing his offer.  
 Hefner, 84, intends to team with Rizvi Traverse Management
LLC on the purchase, the company said.  
 “Hefner is not interested in any sale or merger of PEI,”
it said.  
 Martha Lindeman , a company spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the complaint.  
 FriendFinder Networks Inc., owner of the rival Penthouse
magazine, will make a competing bid for Playboy, said its chief
executive officer,  Mark Bell .  
 An “offer is forthcoming,” Bell told Bloomberg News
yesterday.  
 Braun’s complaint, which names Hefner and eight directors
as defendants, accuses them of breaching their fiduciary duty to
shareholders. He seeks class action, or group, status together
with a court order blocking any sale until the company sets up a
procedure designed to yield the highest purchase price.  
 Robert Weiser , a lawyer for Braun, declined to comment.  
 The earlier suit, making similar allegations, was filed
yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  
 The Chicago case is Braun v. Playboy Enterprises Inc.,
10CH30121, in the Chancery Division of the Cook County,
Illinois, Circuit Court (Chicago). The Wilmington case is
Germershausen v. Hefner, 5632, Court of Chancery, State of
Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        