-- Polanski Celebrates Own Bastille Day in Rape Case: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-07-14T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/polanski-celebrates-own-bastille-day-in-rape-case-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             As France celebrates  Bastille Day 
today, one of its best-known citizens,  Roman Polanski  of Paris,
has a special reason to honor the storming of a prison.  
 Thirty three years after he raped a 13-year-old girl in Los
Angeles, Polanski has been freed from his Swiss chalet. There,
at his part-time home, he had been held captive to an ankle
bracelet while awaiting word on whether he would be sent to
California to answer for his crime.  
 This week Switzerland announced it was shielding the
admitted child molester from extradition.  
 This wasn’t an easy conclusion for Switzerland. To reach
it, authorities had to ignore certain facts of the case, as well
as the terms of a treaty with the U.S.  
 That they did so speaks to their reverence for the
filmmaker’s enormous talent and his status among European
intellectuals.  
 That wasn’t the reason given when the Swiss justice
ministry  announced  the decision. It said the U.S. had refused to
hand over recent, sealed testimony by one of his original
prosecutors because judges in California had twice ordered it
remain sealed.  
 But without the deposition, Switzerland couldn’t be
sufficiently certain whether Roman Polanski had already served
his sentence, the ministry said in its press release.  
 Sentence? What sentence? Polanski fled the country on the
eve of sentencing with the clear purpose of avoiding it. That is
a matter of public record.  
 Seeking Testimony  
 But the Swiss wanted to know what the judge told lawyers he
planned to do at sentencing and whether he had promised to let
him go, as the defense claims. The testimony would have helped
with that.  
 Were there problems with the original prosecution? There
were. Are any allegations of mishandling hefty enough to wipe
out Polanski’s admitted guilt? Not a chance.  
 Besides, it isn’t up to the Swiss to make that call. They
did, anyway, questioning why California spent years at a time
not seeking Polanski’s extradition, as if that were relevant.  
 In effect, Switzerland decided that its view of justice in
the case should prevail. That isn’t the way extradition is
supposed to work.  
 Except for political crimes, extradition is normally a
routine matter. The hosting country makes sure they have the
right guy and that the case fits within the terms of the treaty.
There is little discretion.  
 The Swiss focused on Polanski’s punishment because its
 agreement  with the U.S. says people with no more than six months
left on their prison sentences can’t be extradited.  
 Extradition Eligibility  
 By claiming he had already been sentenced, and to a term
measured in days not months, the defense tried to make it appear
that Polanski wasn’t eligible for extradition.  
 At the time, Judge Laurence Rittenband said Polanski should
be jailed for up to 90 days for a psychological evaluation. He
reportedly told lawyers that if the assessment was favorable,
which it was, Polanski would be free.  
 But between then and formal sentencing, Rittenband had
second thoughts, according to multiple reports. The evaluation
had taken only 42 days, after which Polanski was let go. The
question was whether Polanski would be jailed for the full 90
when he returned for sentencing.  
 Let’s take a break here to note the facts of the case.  
 His 13-year-old victim  told  the grand jury that Polanski,
then 43, took her for a photo shoot at  Jack Nicholson ’s house,
gave her champagne and a Quaalude, told her to take off her
clothes, sodomized her and raped her twice against her
admittedly weak protests.  
 Equated With Rape  
 What did Polanski think of it? “I couldn’t equate what
happened that day with rape in any form,” he wrote in his
autobiography eight years later.  
 No wonder. By then he had spent years in Switzerland
bringing “fresh-faced, nubile young girls” from exclusive
finishing schools to his alpine chalet, according to a 
2009 New Yorker  account  of his case.  
 And then there was actress Nastassja Kinski, 15 or 16 when
she and Polanski began their romance, depending on whether you
go by  her  version or his. British actress Charlotte Lewis  told 
reporters and prosecutors she was 16 when Polanski sexually
abused her in 1981.  
 It is true that his California victim, Samantha Geimer,
says she wants the prosecution to drop the case. But the
district attorney represents the state, not a single victim, and
that means prosecuting sexual predators.  
 A California grand jury indicted Polanski on six charges,
enough to send him away for decades. But, spooked by the
publicity, his young victim declared she wanted no trial. So, a
deal was struck.  
 Up to 50 Years  
 The single charge he admitted, unlawful sex with a minor,
carried a prison term of zero to 50 years. The defense says it
was common in 1977 for defendants to spend little or no time in
jail for it, shocking as that seems now.  
 The defense also says the judge intended to jail him for
the 42 days and makes it sound like that was the final sentence.
It wasn’t. But the claim gave the Swiss the fig leaf they were
looking for to excuse their bogus rejection of extradition.  
 In fact, Los Angeles District Attorney  Steve Cooley   says 
that Polanski voided his plea agreement when he fled. That means
he can still be prosecuted on all the other charges, too.  
 Now Cooley or his successor would have to make that
argument some other time, in some other venue, and only if
Polanski ventures into a country more amenable to extradition.
Forget about France, which doesn’t extradite its citizens.  
 I don’t know where the 76-year-old Polanski is now. I would
look for him on Les Champs-Elysees, hoisting champagne and
celebrating his very own Bastille Day, as if his freedom were a
victory for the common man or the common woman over the
powerful.  
 It was anything but that.  
 ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        