-- Polish Crash Transcript Shows Pilot Under Pressure
-- Dorota Bartyzel
-- 2010-07-14T16:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/polish-crash-transcript-shows-pilot-was-under-pressure-to-land-tvn24-says.html

          
          
             The pilot of the Polish plane that
crashed in April, killing President  Lech Kaczynski  and 95
others, was under pressure to land in foggy conditions, TVN24
reported, citing transcripts from cockpit voice recorders.  
 “If I don’t land, he’ll kill me,” senior pilot Arkadiusz
Protasiuk said less than 20 seconds before the crash, TVN24
reported, citing the unreleased transcripts. Even after
enhancement, the recordings are unclear and “I” and “he” in
the transcript could have been “we” or “they,” TVN24 said.  
 The report may fuel speculation Kaczynski ordered the pilot
to land in bad weather following reports that he criticized a
pilot for being “timid” when he refused to land in the
Georgian capital, Tblisi, during the 2008 war with Russia.  
 A 40-page transcript released by the government on June 1
showed the pilots were warned about “horrible” weather and
poor visibility about 30 minutes before they tried to land. The
document was incomplete because Russian experts weren’t able to
decipher all of the recordings. Since then, the Institute of
Forensic Research in Krakow and police laboratories have been
continuing to fill in gaps.  
 “I’m glad Polish specialists have managed to decipher more
of the cockpit recordings,” Justice Minister  Krzysztof Kwiatkowski  said today in a televised briefing. “Officially, I
don’t know the content of the deciphered recordings, so I cannot
comment on the matter.”  
 Interior Minister  Jerzy Miller , who brought the recordings
from Moscow, plans no statement on the issue, ministry
spokeswoman Malgorzata Wozniak said by phone. She also had no
comment on the transcripts.  
 Officials at the Institute of Forensic Research couldn’t be
reached for comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        