-- Portuguese Government Bond Auction Raises More Than Indicated Before Sale
-- Matthew Brown
-- 2010-07-14T13:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/portuguese-government-bond-auction-raises-more-than-indicated-before-sale.html

          
          
             Portugal sold 1.68 billion euros
($2.1 billion) of debt, above its previous target, signaling
sustained appetite for securities from Europe’s so-called
peripheral nations as sovereign-credit concern eases.  
 The southern European nation said it auctioned 877 million
euros of 2012 notes and 803 million euros of 2019 bonds at
average yields below prevailing market rates. The country’s
debt-management agency said on July 8 that today’s offering
would raise as much as 1.5 billion euros.  
 Portuguese bonds  fell  after the sale, and borrowing costs
were still higher than the previous sale of similar debt as
yields had climbed in the interim. Moody’s Investors Service
yesterday cut Portugal’s credit rating two levels, citing
prospects for weak economic growth and growing debt. Moody’s
subsequently said it wasn’t planning more action and was
“very confident” the nation would meet deficit targets.  
 “They weathered the storm very well and can be happy to
have this auction off the table and be happy with the result,”
said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG
in London. “They have shown they can have sufficient access in
a very challenging market environment. It was encouraging.”  
 The auction marked a second straight day where demand for a
peripheral country’s debt exceeded some forecasts. Greece
yesterday sold Treasury bills at an interest rate below the 5
percent charged by the European Union for its bailout package,
easing concern that borrowing costs will prove an impediment to
deficit reduction.  
 Auction Appetite  
 The Portuguese bonds due June 2019 were issued at an
average yield of 5.304 percent. That compares with an average
yield of 4.129 percent at the auction of same-maturity debt on
July 28, 2009, and the securities’ 5.4 percent before today’s
sale. Today’s auction attracted bids for 1.5 times the amount
offered, compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of 1.6 in the July
2009 sale.  
 “The auction went well and sent a reassuring message about
investors’ appetite for Portuguese paper” after Moody’s
downgrade, said  Chiara Cremonesi , fixed income strategist at
UniCredit Research in London.  
 Moody’s had already signaled on May 5 that it was
considering cutting Portugal’s rating for the first time.
Portugal had held the third-highest Moody’s investment grade
since 1998.  
 Yields on Portuguese 10-year bonds rose eight basis points
to 5.62 percent at 1:40 p.m. in London. The yield started the
year at 4.1 percent and reached 6.33 percent on May 7, before
the European Union’s emergency package worth almost $1 trillion
to fend off speculators betting on a break-up of the euro.  
 Budget Cuts  
 The yield  premium  investors demand to hold Portuguese 10-
year government bonds over comparable German debt widened six
basis points to 291 basis points.  
 The Portuguese government has raised taxes and cut spending
in an attempt to rein in the euro region’s fourth-largest budget
deficit after Ireland, Greece and Spain. The Finance Ministry on
July 2 said that it aims to narrow its budget deficit faster
than forecast previously and meet the 3 percent limit in 2012, a
year earlier than in a previous plan.  
 The European Union announced a 750 billion-euro financial
backstop in May after Greece’s debt crisis led to a surge in the
borrowing costs of other high-deficit nations such as Portugal
and Spain. Portugal had a budget gap of 9.3 percent of gross
domestic product last year, more than three times the EU’s 3
percent limit.  
 The 2012 notes were issued today at an average yield of
3.159 percent, the country’s debt management agency said. That
compares with an average yield of 1.715 percent at a previous
auction of the same-maturity debt on April 14, and a yield of
3.37 percent on benchmark two-year Portuguese notes before the
sale. The auction attracted bids for 2.3 times the amount
offered, compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.5 in April.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        