-- Rajaratnam, Chiesi to Get Some Details of Charges, Federal Judge Rules
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-07-14T19:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/rajaratnam-chiesi-entitled-to-details-of-insider-trading-case-judge-says.html

          
          
             Raj Rajaratnam  and  Danielle S. Chiesi , co-defendants in the biggest hedge-fund insider-trading
prosecution, are entitled to learn more about the government’s
case against them, a federal judge ruled.  
 Rajaratnam, 53, and Chiesi, 44, are among more than 20
people accused since October in overlapping criminal and civil
insider-trading cases. U.S. District Judge  Richard J. Holwell  in
Manhattan said prosecutors must give the co-defendants more
details about the nature of the inside information they are
alleged to have exchanged.  
 Holwell, who is presiding over the criminal case, said in a
ruling dated yesterday and made public today that the government
has amassed a substantial amount of evidence. The charges span
six years, involve “dozens of stocks, dozens of co-
conspirators, and a total of seven conspiracies as charged in
the indictment,” he said.  
 “The merits of such a charge depend heavily on the facts
and context,” Holwell said. “A defendant might argue that the
information he sought to obtain was not material, or that it was
already public at the time he tried to get it. But he can only
do that if he knows what the information is and when it was
conveyed.”  
 Prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  had opposed further disclosures, saying the government
already provided “sufficient information” about the nature of
the charges.  
 Yusill Scribner , a spokeswoman for Bharara’s office, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message left at her office
seeking comment about the ruling.  
 A spokesman for Rajaratnam, Jim McCarthy, declined to
comment.  
 Itemize Trades  
 Holwell said the government doesn’t need to itemize trades
that are charged in the conspiracy counts against Rajaratnam and
Chiesi. And prosecutors don’t have to give details about stocks
where the evidence is taken solely from wiretaps, all of which
have been turned over to the defendants, he said.  
 The judge said he had to balance forcing the government to
divulge too much information against “protecting the defendant
from surprise.”  
 “It matters when the information was conveyed,” Holwell
said. “Information about an upcoming acquisition may be
material and nonpublic on one day, and public the next day.”  
 Provide Specifics  
 The judge also directed prosecutors to provide specifics on
many of the alleged illegal tips charged in the complaint. He
said Rajaratnam and Chiesi can only prepare their defense if
they know more about the nature of the information and the
prosecution’s case.  
 For example, Rajaratnam is charged with conspiracy to
commit securities fraud in connection with Cisco Systems Inc.’s
potential acquisition of another company between July and
September 2008. Holwell ruled that prosecutors must name the
target company, the substance of the information provided, the
date on which the communication occurred and who allegedly
tipped Rajaratnam.  
 “We’re certainly delighted that we are getting further
particularization from the government,” Alan Kaufman, a lawyer
for Chiesi, said. “The court realizes this case is complex
enough and that further particularization is necessary. We’re
just gratified that the judge ruled that way.”  
 Rajaratnam, co-founder of New York-based Galleon Group, is
accused of using secret tips from corporate officials and hedge-
fund executives including Chiesi to earn millions of dollars in
illegal stock trades. The allegations involve trading shares in
12 companies, including  Intel Corp. ,  International Business
Machines Corp. ,  Akamai Technologies Inc. ,  Google Inc.  and
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc.   
 Lawyers for Rajaratnam and Chiesi have asked Judge
Holwell to postpone the Oct. 25 trial date and for separate
trials. He hasn’t ruled on those requests.  
 The criminal case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-1184; the
civil case is SEC v. Galleon Management LP, 09-cv-08811, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan or
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        