-- Treasury Auction Direct-Bid Surge Probably Won't Persist, Citigroup Says
-- Liz Capo McCormick
-- 2010-07-14T16:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/treasury-auction-direct-bid-surge-probably-won-t-persist-citigroup-says.html

          
          
             The more-than-fourfold increase in
direct bids by investors at Treasury auctions in the past year
that may have helped contain government borrowing costs probably
won’t persist, according to Citigroup Inc.  
 “The change in bidding behavior should increase the
volatility around auctions,”  Joe Leary  and  Brett Rose , New
York-based strategists at Citigroup, wrote in a report today.
“A counter effect that comes along with an increased number of
direct bidders is increased competition. This recent change in
auction behavior may not be completely adverse for Treasury
borrowing costs.”  
 Bids made directly by firms that include investment funds
and banks rather than through the Federal Reserve’s 18  primary
dealers  climbed to 21 percent on average from less than 5
percent a year earlier, according to the Citigroup analysis of
Treasury auction data. Primary dealers act as counterparties
with the central bank on the implementation of monetary policy
and are required to be at Treasury debt sales.  
 Securities firms aspiring to become primary dealers have
the highest percentage of their direct bids at two- and five-
year notes sales, the analysts wrote. An increase purchases by
bank and investors looking to “disguise” their buying may also
be responsible for the shift, Citigroup said.  
 The Treasury sold $21 billion in  10-year notes  yesterday,
and $13 billion in 30-year bonds today. In the 10-year offering,
direct bidders bought 9.8 percent, compared with a 12.4 percent
percent average for the past 10 sales.  
 Bidding Concentrations  
 “We do not rule out the possibility of even lower primary
dealer participation in the short term,” Leary and Rose wrote.
“As uncertainty in the market begins to dissipate, we expect
that primary dealers will regain most of this lost control.”  
 The rise in direct bidding by investment funds has been
most concentrated in the two- to five-year maturity range,
Citigroup said. Depositary institutions’ direct bids appear to
be more focused on Treasuries due in seven to 30 years.  
 Several primary dealers told U.S. officials in February
that the increase in direct bids from investors at auctions
risked distorting prices in the $7 trillion market for U.S.
government debt, according to people involved in the discussions
at the time. The firms said the rise in direct bids may raise
borrowing costs for the Treasury and taxpayers if dealers bid
less aggressively because of higher volatility at the sales.  
 The rise in direct bids contributed to dealers winning a
smaller percentage of auctions last year than in 2008 even with
government debt sales doubling.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        