-- Treasuries Advance After Fed Minutes Show Officials Saw Risks to Recovery
-- Cordell Eddings
-- 2010-07-14T20:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/treasuries-advance-after-u-s-sells-30-year-securities-retail-sales-drop.html

          
          
             Treasuries gained, pushing two-year
note yields to almost a record low, after minutes of the Federal
Reserve’s June meeting showed policy makers noted that risks to
the recovery increased.  
 Ten-year yields fell for the first time in six days as the
minutes showed some Fed officials saw “some risk of
deflation.” Treasuries also rose after the U.S. sold $13
billion of bonds at a lower-than-forecast yield and data showed
 retail sales  dropped in June more than forecast.  
 “The Fed is on record talking about deflation, which they
haven’t in some time,” said  Thomas Tucci , head of U.S.
government bond trading in New York at Royal Bank of Canada, one
of the 18 primary dealers required to bid in U.S. debt auctions.
“When the Fed starts to identify things by name, that means it
is seriously on their minds -- and this is helping the market.”  
 The  yield  on the 30-year bond dropped 7 basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 4.04 percent at 4:30 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The two-year  yield  touched
0.5928 percent, nearing the all-time low of 0.5856 percent set
on June 30. The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note tumbled 8
basis points to 3.05 percent.  
 Fed officials at their June 22-23 policy meeting saw no
need to boost stimulus to the economy, while trimming their
forecasts for growth, meeting minutes released today showed.  
 ‘Relatively Modest’  
 “The economic outlook had softened somewhat and a number of
members saw the risks to the outlook as having shifted to the
downside,” the minutes said. “A few participants cited some
risk of deflation,” they said.  
 Shifts in the outlook were seen as “relatively modest”
and didn’t warrant new efforts to spur the economy, according to
the minutes.  
 The Fed lowered its central tendency forecast for 2010
growth to a range of 3 percent to 3.5 percent versus 3.2 percent
to 3.7 percent in April, the minutes show. It trimmed its
outlook for inflation this year to a range of 1 percent to 1.1
percent, down from 1.2 percent to 1.5 percent in April.  
 “The Fed is on hold longer than the market expects, but
the market is now coming to that realization,” said  William Cunningham , head of fixed-income and credit research at State
Street Corp. in Boston. “After the backup in rates, higher
rates are bringing in some buyers to the Treasury market.”  
 The 30-year bond sale drew a yield of 4.08 percent, the
lowest since October, compared with an average forecast of 4.108
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 8 primary dealers. The
last sale of long bonds, on June 10, drew a yield of 4.182
percent, also below the 4.009 percent at the October auction.  
 Demand Gauge  
 The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount offered, was 2.89, versus 2.87 at the
previous sale and an average for the past 10 offerings of 2.61.
Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 37.4 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 36.4 percent for the past 10 sales.  
 Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors who place
their bids directly with the Treasury, bought 16.1 percent,
versus an average of 15.6 percent for the past 10 sales.  
 The more-than-fourfold increase in direct bids by investors
at Treasury auctions in the past year probably won’t persist,
according to Citigroup Inc. Direct bids rose to 21 percent from
less than 5 percent, it said.  
 “The change in bidding behavior should increase the
volatility around auctions,”  Joe Leary  and  Brett Rose , New
York-based strategists at the firm, wrote in a report today. “A
counter effect that comes along with an increased number of
direct bidders is increased competition. This recent change in
auction behavior may not be completely adverse for Treasury
borrowing costs.”  
 Retail Sales  
 U.S. retail sales decreased 0.5 percent last month after a
revised 1.1 percent drop in May, Commerce Department data
showed. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists was for a decline of 0.3 percent.  
 The U.S. consumer-price index fell 0.1 percent in June, a
third monthly decline, according to a Bloomberg survey before
the Labor Department reports the figure on July 16. Excluding
food and energy, prices probably increased 0.9 percent from a
year earlier, matching the smallest year-over-year gain since
1966, a separate Bloomberg survey showed.  
 Yields on 10-year notes will advance to 3.35 percent by
year-end, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and
securities companies with the most recent forecasts given the
heaviest weightings. They touched 2.8793 percent on July 1, the
lowest level since April 2009, amid concern European efforts to
cut government spending would hurt the recovery.  
 Ten-year notes  fell for a fifth day yesterday, the longest
since August, as the U.S. sold $21 billion of the securities and
stocks rallied around the world, damping demand for the safest
assets. The auction drew a 3.119 percent yield, compared with a
forecast of 3.109 percent in a Bloomberg survey. The Treasury
sold $35 billion in three-year debt on July 12.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        