-- Three-Month Euro Libor Declines for First Time in Almost a Month, BBA Says
-- Matthew Brown
-- 2010-07-14T12:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/three-month-euro-libor-declines-for-first-time-in-almost-a-month-bba-says.html

          
          
             The interest rate banks say they pay
for three-month loans in euros in London fell for the first time
in a month, data from the British Bankers’ Association showed.  
 The London interbank offered rate, or  Libor , for such loans
was at 0.774 percent, the BBA said today. The rate was 0.775
percent yesterday, the highest since Sept. 3, 2009.  
 The drop, the first since June 11, breaks a streak of 23
working days. Borrowing costs had been rising after banks tapped
the European Central Bank for less funding than some analysts
had expected before paying back a 442 billion-euro ($562
billion) ECB 12-month loan on July 1. That reduced excess
liquidity in money markets.  
 “The lower fixing is marginal after a long run of
increases,” said  Christoph Rieger , co-head of interest-rate
strategy at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “I wouldn’t read too
much into it. The trajectory should stay towards higher
fixings.”  
 Three-month  Euribor  rose to 0.84 percent today, the most
since Aug. 24, 2009, from 0.835 percent yesterday, according to
data from the European Banking Federation. The rate may continue
to “move closer to the ECB’s refinancing rate at 1 percent,”
Commerzbank’s Rieger said.  
 “There’s a change in liquidity conditions, and more banks
are looking to fund their inventory in the market instead of at
the ECB, and that’s pulling rates up,” Rieger said.  
 ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said July 8 that the
rising cost of money doesn’t reflect any intention by the
central bank to tighten policy.  
 “It would be a complete mistake to interpret what we
observe in the market as a monetary policy signal,” Trichet
said at a press conference in Frankfurt after the ECB left the
main refinancing rate at a record low 1 percent. Higher
borrowing costs are “the consequence of the decision of the
banks themselves at the moment of renewal of their previous
financing to ask for less than they could have done.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        