-- RenCap's BJM Signs Up Mining Analyst Woodley, Plans Investment Bank Hires
-- Vernon Wessels
-- 2010-07-14T12:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/rencap-s-bjm-signs-up-mining-analyst-woodley-plans-investment-bank-hires.html

          
          
             Renaissance Capital’s Barnard Jacobs
Mellet Securities Ltd., the South African stock brokerage,
appointed  Ian Woodley  to research mining companies and said it
plans to hire more people at its investment banking unit.  
 Woodley, 44, a former fund manager at Stanlib Ltd. who
joined financial services company Bex Asset Management in 2008,
will start in August, RenCap South Africa Chief Executive
Officer  Clifford Sacks  said in an interview in Johannesburg
yesterday. The broker also plans to hire three more investment
bankers to work with  Toby Mannock  and its equity capital markets
business, he said.  
 “We’re largely done with our equities business now and
we’re in the process of building our investment banking and
equity capital markets businesses,” Sacks said. “Our near-term
objective is to integrate BJM into the Renaissance Capital
family.”  
 RenCap , based in Moscow, yesterday completed its 207
million rand ($27 million) purchase of BJM Securities, voted the
top research company in South Africa in the  Financial Mail’s  
2010 survey of fund managers. The acquisition comes as Russia’s
largest investment bank expands in Africa, where it has operated
since 2007 and now has units in countries including Kenya,
Nigeria and South Africa.  
 Since taking the post in March, Sacks has hired staff from
Bank of America Merrill Lynch South Africa, where he was a
former joint CEO, including the brokerage’s chief trader,  Tony Marcia , and equity sales traders  Sarah Maja  and  Aleksandar Andjelopolj .  
 Last month, BJM also hired  Rey Wium , voted South Africa’s
top luxury goods and tobacco analyst by the Financial Mail, from
 Nedbank Group Ltd.  to cover companies such as  Cie Financiere
Richemont SA  and  British American Tobacco Plc .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vernon Wessels  in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        