-- Rhine Freight Rates for Refined Oil Products Rise as Water Levels Recede
-- Rachel Graham
-- 2010-07-14T11:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/rhine-rates-for-fuels-advance-as-water-levels-drop-forcing-lighter-barges.html

          
          
             The cost of shipping  oil products  on
the Rhine River advanced after water levels fell in the last
three weeks, reducing the amount of fuel that can be carried on
barges.  
 The cost of shipping  gasoil to Duisburg  in Germany from
Rotterdam or Amsterdam rose to 3.50 euros ($4.45) a metric ton
yesterday from 3.25 euros the previous day, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Prices had been unchanged since June 9.  
 “We are not loading to full capacity anymore,” Joachim
Hessler, operations manager at barge operator Maintank
Schiffahrtsgesellschaft mbH, said by phone from Woerth in
Germany. “Compensation for lack of loading capacity comes on
the money side.”  
 The Rhine is Germany’s main waterway, handling up to 80
percent of the country’s waterborne cargoes, according to
Germany’s inland shipping association. The river, which goes to
the port of Rotterdam, is used by companies including chemicals
maker  BASF SE .  
 The  current dry spell  in Germany may continue for the next
7 to 10 days, according to the country’s national weather
service. “June was a very dry month and this has continued into
July,” spokesman Gerhard Lux said by phone from Frankfurt.  
 The barge clearance level in  Dusseldorf  fell to 194
centimeters (76 inches) yesterday, down 50 percent from 385
centimeters on June 23, according to German government data on
Bloomberg. The clearance level is the depth at which a barge can
travel safely without the risk of running aground.  
 The cost for  gasoline deliveries to Duisburg  rose to 3.75
euros a ton yesterday, compared with 3.50 euros the previous
day, the data show. Costs of shipping the motor fuel to  Cologne 
also rose. Gasoil is the European equivalent of heating oil.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachel Graham  in London at 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        