-- Tribune Seeks to Limit Buyout Debate in August Bankruptcy Exit Hearing
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-07-14T20:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/tribune-seeks-to-limit-buyout-debate-in-august-bankruptcy-exit-hearing.html

          
          
             Tribune Co.  is seeking to limit
debate over the legality of its 2007 buyout when it goes to
court next month to try to win approval to exit bankruptcy.  
 Lawyers for Tribune and its lenders today asked the judge
overseeing the bankruptcy to keep discussion about the buyout to
a minimum. Lower-ranking creditors claim the buyout violated
bankruptcy law and are preparing to present evidence in support
of their allegations during the confirmation hearing. The
proceeding is scheduled to start Aug. 30 in Wilmington,
Delaware.  
 “We’re trying to prevent a mess,” company attorney  James Conlan  said in court today. If the confirmation hearing turns
into a trial about the buyout, then the company’s reorganization
plan “doesn’t work,” Conlan said.  
 Tribune’s reorganization plan is built on a settlement of
the buyout claims among some lower ranking creditors, lenders,
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , and Tribune managers. At least
two groups of creditors oppose the settlement and have said they
will make it the centerpiece of their opposition to the plan.  
 Tribune filed bankruptcy in December, 2008, one year after
real-estate billionaire  Sam Zell  led the  buyout .  Some lower-
ranking creditors alleged the buyout was a fraudulent transfer
because it added more than $8 billion in debt to the Chicago-
based company while benefiting only Zell and the shareholders.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin J. Carey  said he wouldn’t
decide how much weight to give the allegations until he hears
the buyout critics present their evidence.  
 The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        