-- RIM Tells Investors BlackBerry Maker Will `Perform' Again as Stock Slides
-- Hugo Miller
-- 2010-07-14T14:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/rim-tells-investors-blackberry-maker-will-perform-again-as-stock-slides.html

          
          
             Research In Motion Ltd. , the maker
of the BlackBerry smartphone, set out to reassure investors that
its new Web browser and operating system will impress consumers
as its stock has fallen 18 percent in 2010.  
 The  shares  have declined because some investors think RIM
can’t match its past performance, co-Chief Executive Officer  Jim Balsillie  said at the company’s annual shareholder meeting
yesterday in Waterloo, Ontario.  
 “My answer to that is to perform, and that is our
intent,” he said.  
 RIM, best known for handsets with a full keyboard, has
struggled to create a touch-screen device that can compete with
Apple Inc.’s iPhone partly because of an older Web browser that
makes surfing the Internet harder. While the company said last
month the new software will appear on BlackBerrys before the end
of September, the stock tumbled after sales rose less than
analysts expected last quarter.  
 “We’re uneasy about whether RIM is falling behind the
crowd, especially Mr. Mac,” said Franklin Kains, who attended
the meeting. Kains, a 62-year-old agricultural engineer, said he
has held the stock for three years. “The last year has given us
some concerns, the doubts are starting.”  
 Since peaking this year at $75.94 on March 11, RIM has
dropped 27 percent in Nasdaq Stock Market trading through
yesterday. The shares today  fell  $1.06 to $56.51 at 10:01 a.m.
New York time.  
 Growth Overseas  
 Rim’s  share  of the smartphone market fell to 19.4 percent
of global shipments in the first quarter from 20.9 percent a
year earlier, according to researcher IDC, based in Framingham,
Massachusetts. Apple claimed 16.1 percent of the smartphone
market, up from 10.9 percent a year earlier.  
 “Once you use it, you will see how unique and compelling
it is,” co-CEO  Mike Lazaridis  told investors yesterday after
giving a demonstration of BlackBerry 6.  
 Bob Campbell, 69, a retired shareholder, said while RIM is
“not doing that badly,” the company needs to look abroad as
growth slows in the U.S. “What RIM has to have is less exposure
to the U.S.,” he said.  
 RIM has 41 percent of the North American market, compared
with 22 percent for Apple, according to researcher Gartner Inc.
Two-fifths of BlackBerry’s 46 million users reside outside of
North America, up from a third two years ago.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        