-- Rio Tinto's Quarterly Iron-Ore Output Falls 2% on Scheduled Mine Closures
-- Rebecca Keenan
-- 2010-07-14T16:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/rio-tinto-says-second-quarter-iron-ore-output-falls-to-43-61-million-tons.html

          
          
             Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-
largest mining company, said second-quarter iron ore production
fell 2 percent on scheduled shutdowns during the period.  
 Output dropped to 43.6 million metric tons from 44.6
million tons a year earlier, the London-based company said today
in a statement. That compares with an estimate of 44.8 million
tons by UBS AG analysts. The decline followed “a couple of
minor, planned” closures, Rio spokesman  Gervase Greene  said
today by telephone from Perth.  
 Rio plans to increase output of iron ore, its biggest
earner last year with sales of $12.6 billion, as demand from
Chinese steelmakers buoys prices. The company today approved an
initial $200 million investment in an Australian iron ore
expansion project that may increase output at its Pilbara
development by 50 percent.  
 “They are trying to capitalize on the strong growth out of
China over the years to come,”  Simon Bonouvrie , who helps
manage about $1.6 billion at Platypus Asset Management including
Rio shares, said by phone from Sydney. “They want to expand
their production capabilities and supply of iron ore to meet the
corresponding increase in demand.”  
 Sales  of the ore contributed 28 percent of total revenue
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Prices  will
be on average 93.5 percent higher this year than in 2009, Morgan
Stanley said last month.  
 China Deliveries  
 Rio, the world’s second-biggest iron ore exporter, said
today it maintained shipments to China at or near capacity at
more than 220 million tons over the past 12 months.  
 “Markets for most of our products are strong and the
overall long-term demand outlook is positive,” Chief Executive
Officer  Tom Albanese  said in the statement. Recent fears of a
double-dip recession among Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development countries and “a slight slowdown” in Chinese
growth have led to “some weakening in sentiment.”  
 Volatility in the global economy is set to continue, he
said.  
 Rio  was little changed at 3,134.5 pence in London trading.
The stock rose 1.3 percent to A$67.38 in Sydney.  
 The company is scheduled to report first-half  earnings  on
Aug. 5. UBS forecast net income of $4.9 billion for the period,
compared with the $5.6 billion average of four  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 ‘Competing For Capital’  
 Second-half earnings will be affected by higher power costs
for aluminum production in Quebec, cutting earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization by $100 million,
Rio said.  
 Rio is studying an expansion of its mines in Western
Australia’s Pilbara region that may ultimately cost A$12 billion
($10.4 billion), according to a Citigroup Inc. estimate last
year. That would raise capacity there to 330 million tons from
220 million tons.  
 “Iron ore is the overwhelming earnings driver this year
and next, with an approximate 65 percent earnings
contribution,”  Paul McTaggart , a Sydney-based analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, said in a July 13 report.  
 Production of coking coal rose 26 percent in the quarter
because of increased investment at operations in Australia’s
Queensland state, Rio said. Output of diamonds from its Argyle
project in Western Australia surged more than sixfold to 2.6
million carats, reflecting improved market conditions, it said.  
 “Growth is firmly back on our agenda,” Albanese said.
“We have a large range of options for expansion and investment
competing for capital.”  
 Mined copper output fell 19 percent because of lower grades
of ore at Kennecott Utah Copper and Grasberg, the company said.
Rio raised its annual forecast for its share of mined copper
production to 690,000 tons from 680,000 tons. Its full-year
forecast for iron ore production was maintained.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        