-- Romer Says U.S. Stimulus Programs Spur $280 Billion Additional Investment
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-07-14T21:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/romer-says-u-s-stimulus-programs-spur-280-billion-additional-investment.html

          
          
             The economic stimulus legislation
pushed into law by U.S. President  Barack Obama  last year will
help encourage $280 billion of investment by private industry
and local governments that in turn creates jobs, according to an
administration report released today.  
 “This isn’t big government spending, this is about getting
the economy growing through seed money,” Vice President  Joe Biden  said as he issued the report at the White House for the
second quarter of 2010, which ended June 30.  
 The analysis, by the White House Council of Economic
Advisers, estimates that about $100 billion in government
grants, loan guarantees, interest subsidies and tax breaks will
be matched almost three-to-one by other spending on clean energy
projects, economic development and building construction.  
 “The Recovery Act appears to be stimulating private
investment and job creation at a time when the economy needs it
most,”  Christina Romer , chairwoman of the White House’s Council
of Economic Advisers, said in testimony to a hearing of
Congress’s Joint Economic Committee later today.  
 According to the administration, about 72 percent of the
program’s funds have been spent or obligated. The effect of the
program has raised the nation’s gross domestic product by
between 2.7 percent and 3.2 percent from “what it otherwise
would have been,” the report said.  
 ‘Strong Headwinds’  
 Romer said in her testimony that the U.S. economy
“continues to face some strong headwinds,” including cuts in
state and local government spending and tight credit
availability for small businesses.  
 In response to a question from Representative  Carolyn Maloney , a New York Democrat, Romer said the U.S. economy
remains at risk of deflation.  
 ““As the unemployment rate stays high, that puts
continued pressure on inflation. So, yes, it is a risk,” Romer
said.  
 She said she does “not foresee a double-dip” recession.  
 Obama has touted the $862 billion stimulus package in
travels throughout the country, declaring that such spending was
necessary to revive the U.S. economy and that taking no action
would have been worse.  
 The president will make a similar pitch tomorrow when he
travels to Holland, Michigan, for groundbreaking of a plant that
makes compact batteries for electric cars.  
 Selling Program  
 The stimulus report covering the second quarter follows a
Bloomberg Poll released today showing that the White House has
made little progress in selling its program.  
 Of those surveyed, 35 percent said they were “more
supportive” of the jobs-creating effort, while 31 percent were
“less supportive” and 33 percent they hadn’t changed their
opinion. The poll 1,004 of adults taken July 9-12 has an error
margin of plus-or-minus 3.1 percentage points.  
 Republicans have opposed the stimulus, saying that it’s
wasteful and has added to the record  deficit .  
 “The fastest-growing parts of this Democrat economy aren’t
jobs, they’re the crushing burden of the  national debt  and the
size of the federal government,” Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky said in a statement.  
 Bond Program  
 Romer cited the Build America Bond program, which has
subsidized interest costs for about $118 billion of local
government securities sold to finance public-works projects, and
tax credits for companies that invest in plants to build solar
panels and wind turbines.  
 The report said the stimulus has saved or created about 3
million jobs and is moving toward a goal of 3.5 million jobs by
the end of the year.  
 The Obama administration has been stepping up its efforts
to defend the stimulus measure, passed by Congress soon after
Obama took office, as the U.S. economy struggles to recover from
the worst recession since the 1930s.  
 The economy lost 125,000 workers in June while adding
83,000 private-sector jobs, fewer than forecast. The
 unemployment rate  fell to 9.5 percent and has exceeded 9 percent
since May 2009.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers Christina Romer. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
