-- Roubini Says Obama Should Address Nation as Adults
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-07-14T18:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/roubini-says-obama-should-address-nation-as-adults-on-economy-tom-keene.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  needs to be
upfront with the nation about what must be done to increase the
pace of U.S. economic growth, according to  Nouriel Roubini , the
New York University economist credited with predicting the
global financial crisis.  
 “We have to recognize that Americans are adults,” Roubini
said during a radio interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg
Surveillance. “Then we have to speak to them straightforward
about the risks and challenges that we have, rather than kicking
the can down the road.”  
 The government must maintain fiscal stimulus in the near
term before gradually reducing spending and raising revenue to
rebound from the longest U.S. economic slump since the Great
Depression, said Roubini, 52. A value-added sales tax is
probably “the best idea on the table” to contain the  federal
deficit  once the recovery gains momentum, according to Roubini.  
 Making a commitment to a fiscal plan will prevent markets
from “getting spooked,” said Roubini, who in August 2006
predicted a “painful” U.S. recession that came to fruition in
December 2007.  
 “Markets are not going to punish countries for doing
fiscal stimulus in the short run when there is light at the end
of the tunnel,” he said.  
 The Obama administration has increased U.S. marketable debt
to a record $7.96 trillion as it tries to sustain the economic
expansion.  
 Labor Market  
 Private employers added fewer workers to payrolls in June
than forecast, the Labor Department reported on July 2,
reinforcing concern the recovery will weaken as Americans
curtail spending. Including government, payrolls fell for the
first time this year because of a drop in census workers.  
 Gross domestic product grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in
the first quarter, less than the Commerce Department previously
calculated, reflecting a smaller gain in consumer spending and a
bigger trade deficit.  
 In the short run, Roubini said, the economy needs to
maintain federal fiscal stimulus to rescue indebted households
and state and local governments from bankruptcy. Failure to
provide debt relief will reduce consumption and force essential
cuts on spending in areas such as education and public safety,
according to Roubini.  
 When the domestic economy gains footing from federal
spending, Roubini said, the government will have to reverse
course, reducing the debt through fiscal austerity for the next
three to seven years.  
 “At the same time, it’s not enough to do it on the
spending side,” said Roubini, favoring a value-added sales tax.
“The deficit cap is so large in the U.S. that eventually we
need to have raises in revenues, and we have to do that in non-
distortionary ways.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “Markets are not going to punish countries for doing fiscal stimulus in the short run when there is light at the end of the tunnel,”  Economist Nouriel Roubini said recently in an interview.  Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
