-- Rubber Advances From One-Month Low as Global Equities Rally, Yen Weakens
-- Aya Takada
-- 2010-07-14T07:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/rubber-recovers-from-one-month-low-as-global-equities-rally-yen-declines.html

          
          
             Rubber recovered from a one-month
low as a rally in global stocks boosted investor confidence in
the economic recovery and a weaker Japanese currency raised the
appeal of yen-based contracts.  
 Futures in Tokyo gained as much as 2.9 percent after
reaching the lowest level since June 9. The price advanced for
the first time in four days.  
 Asian stocks  rose, pushing the region’s benchmark index to
a three-week high, after Intel Corp. reported record second-
quarter sales and Singapore raised its 2010 economic growth
forecast. The yen declined against the dollar on signs of growth
in U.S. companies.  
 “Market sentiment improved as stocks rallied on good
corporate earnings,” boosting investor appetite for riskier
assets,  Shuji Sugata , research manager at Mitsubishi Corp.
Futures Ltd. in Tokyo, said today by phone.  
 December-delivery rubber rose as much as 7.5 yen to 267.6
yen per kilogram ($3,008 a metric ton) before settling at 264.2
yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange.  
 The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index  gained 1.3 percent to 117.52 as
of 3:15 p.m. in Tokyo, reaching the highest level since June 22.
Singapore said its economy will grow between 13 percent and 15
percent this year, adding to confidence in the economic recovery
after Greece sold bonds at a rate below what the country pays
for European aid.  
 Gains Limited  
 Gains in rubber futures were limited amid concern that
demand in China, the world’s largest consumer, may weaken after
car sales growth slowed, Sugata said.  
 November-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
fell as much as 1 percent to 20,985 yuan ($3,098) a ton before
trading at 21,200 yuan at 3:00 p.m. local time.  
 The price may extend declines if Vietnam, the fifth-biggest
producer, resumes full border trade with China after a halt last
month to combat smuggling, analysts said.  
 Anti-smuggling efforts by the Chinese and Vietnamese
governments have cut off supplies for several weeks,  Li Shiqiang ,
general manager at Sri Trang (Shanghai) Ltd., a unit of
Thailand’s largest publicly traded  rubber exporter , said in a
phone interview.  
 “For the past few months, the border gates to China have
been sometimes open, sometimes closed. Prices were unstable,
causing a lot of difficulty for Vietnam’s rubber companies,”
Dinh Thi Thanh Tam, deputy director at Hoa Thuan Co., a natural
rubber producer and exporter, said from Ho Chi Minh City.  
 Sales of cars, sport-utility vehicles and multipurpose
vehicles in China, the largest auto market, grew 19 percent from
a year earlier to 1.04 million last month, the  China Association
of Automobile Manufacturers  said July 9. It was the slowest pace
since March 2009 as dealers’ inventories increased.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        