-- Trump Entertainment's New Owners Tell Panel of Plan to Sell Marina Casino
-- Beth Jinks
-- 2010-07-14T19:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/trump-entertainment-s-new-owners-tell-panel-of-plan-to-sell-marina-casino.html

          
          
             Trump Entertainment Resorts Inc. ,
the bankrupt Atlantic City casino company, is in talks to sell
the Trump Marina Hotel Casino, according to the leading
bondholder taking over the company.  
 Discussions are under way with interested buyers,  Marc Lasry , chief executive officer of New York-based  Avenue Capital
Group , told the New Jersey Casino Control Commission today in
Atlantic City. Lasry and Avenue Capital, which will own 22
percent of Trump Entertainment once it exits bankruptcy, gained
interim licensing approval from the panel.  
 Billionaire Lasry, along with other bondholders and company
founder  Donald J. Trump , won control of Trump Entertainment in
April when a bankruptcy judge ruled their bid was better for
creditors than a competing offer by investor  Carl Icahn . Today’s
licensing and plan approvals will pave the way for Trump
Entertainment’s three Atlantic City casinos to exit bankruptcy
for a third time.  
 “The Marina needs, how do I say this nicely, it needs
updating,” Lasry said. “It’s in a phenomenal location, but
it’s a bit old, and it’s a bit dated.”  
 Trump Entertainment, which last emerged from bankruptcy in
May 2005, owns the Trump Taj Mahal Resort, Trump Plaza Hotel &
Casino and Trump Marina. The three properties also went through
bankruptcy in the 1990s.  
 Gambling Slump  
 Coastal Marina LLC, controlled by  Richard T. Fields , had
agreed in 2008 to buy Trump Marina and turn it into a
Margaritaville casino resort. Last year, Fields renegotiated the
deal, which included settlement of an unrelated lawsuit, and
then reached yet another plan with bondholders to buy the Marina
before Trump switched sides and aligned with them.  
 Atlantic City gambling revenue fell 8.4 percent this year
through June from a year ago, extending a record three-year
decline for the New Jersey seaside resort, hit by the economic
slowdown and competition from nearby states including
Pennsylvania, New York and Delaware. Six of the city’s casinos
wound up in bankruptcy or are restructuring debt, and
development has stalled.  
 Trump Entertainment’s new owners plan to spend money
updating Trump Plaza, and want to attract more families to
Atlantic City in order to compete with new casinos closer to
their homes in nearby states, Lasry said today during commission
questioning.  
 Icahn’s Plan  
 “I believe over the course of the next five years a lot of
value is going to be created,” Lasry said. He said he was
“more positive about the economy six months ago” and now
believes Atlantic City casinos will turn around in two to three
years, longer than the one to two years he had earlier
projected.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Judith H. Wizmur  on April 12 sided
with a group of bondholders owed $1.2 billion. Their proposal
reduces Trump Entertainment’s debt by $1.4 billion, gives Trump
as much as 10 percent of the company he once ran and allows
continued use of his name. The bondholders also offered to
invest $225 million in Trump Entertainment.  
 Under Icahn’s losing plan, $480 million in bank debt that
he bought from Texas banker  Andy Beal  would have been fully
repaid by converting it to equity, wiping out the bondholders.
Under the bondholders’ winning proposal, their notes will be
canceled and the bank loans will be reduced by at least $100
million after selling a stake in the company. The remainder will
be converted to a new loan to be repaid by 2015.  
 Icahn Objection  
 Icahn and Beal filed a last-minute objection to Trump
Entertainment’s plan to exit bankruptcy, claiming that the
company has not yet negotiated a brand licensing agreement with
Donald and  Ivanka Trump . The company has also failed to give
Icahn and Beal copies of a new credit agreement, the pair said
in court papers filed July 12.  
 Judge Wizmur scheduled a July 15 hearing on the objection,
the day Trump Entertainment expects to exit bankruptcy,
according to court papers.  
 When the bondholder-sponsored reorganization plan was
approved, the judge required that copies of the licensing and
credit agreements be given to Icahn and Beal so they could have
a chance to challenge them before Trump Entertainment exited
bankruptcy.  
 The bankruptcy case is In re TCI 2 Holdings LLC, 09-13654,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of New Jersey (Camden).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in Atlantic City at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        