-- Rupee Advances on Speculation India Will Raise Interest Rates This Month
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-07-14T12:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/rupee-advances-on-speculation-india-will-raise-interest-rates-this-month.html

          
          
             India’s rupee gained for the first
time this week as a report showed June’s  inflation  rate was near
the highest since 2008, adding pressure on the central bank to
raise borrowing costs for a fourth time in 2010.  
 The commerce ministry said today that wholesale prices rose
10.55 percent in June, after a 10.16 percent increase in May.
The  Reserve Bank of India , which lifted its benchmark rates for
a third time this year on July 2, may take further policy steps
“if inflation persists at double-digit levels,”  Chakravarthy Rangarajan , chairman of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory
Council, said yesterday.  
 The “outlook for higher rates will support the rupee in
the near term,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , Hong Kong-based senior
economist and strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “The
government is also quite open to RBI hiking rates further given
its recent comments.”  
 The rupee strengthened 0.2 percent to 46.695 per dollar as
of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It is the worst performer this month among Asian
currencies, with a 0.5 percent decline.  
 Offshore forward contracts indicated the rupee will trade
at 47.29 to the dollar in three months, compared with
expectations for a rate of 47.41 yesterday. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  
 Inflation  
 Montek Singh Ahluwalia , deputy chairman of India’s Planning
Commission, said yesterday the central bank should make
“whatever adjustments it feels necessary” as inflation above
10 percent is “not acceptable.”  
 Consumer prices paid by industrial and farm workers in
India are increasing at almost 14 percent, the most among 17
countries in the Asia Pacific region tracked by Bloomberg,
including China and South Korea, on growing consumer demand and
as a drought last year reduced farm production.  
 The rupee also appreciated after exchange data showed
foreigners raised  holdings  of Indian equities to an all-time
high $80.8 billion on July 12.  
 The Indian currency’s gains were curbed by concern the
nation’s  current-account  deficit will widen from a record. The
shortfall in the measure of goods and services payments was $13
billion or the equivalent of 3 percent of the gross domestic
product in the three months ended March 31, the worst proportion
among Asia’s 10 largest economies.  
 “The rupee will continue to underperform,” said  Rahul Bajoria , a Singapore-based economist at Barclays, the world’s
third-largest currency trader. “The risks of a weaker rupee in
the medium term are high because the current-account balance
looks set to deteriorate further.”  
 Barclays predicts India’s annual current-account  deficit 
will widen 15 percent, to $44 billion, in the financial year
that began April 1.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        