-- Russian Banks Cut Bond Holdings for First Time Since 2008 to Fund Lending
-- Denis Maternovsky
-- 2010-07-15T11:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/russian-banks-cut-bond-holdings-for-first-time-since-2008-to-fund-lending.html

          
          
             Russian banks, the largest owners of
domestic corporate bonds, are reducing holdings for the first
time since 2008 to finance increased lending.  
 Banks, which hold about 40 percent of domestic company debt,
trimmed government and corporate securities by 1.4 percent to
5.1 trillion rubles ($167 billion), a change from the past 19
months when investments more than doubled, according to the most
recent  data  published by the central bank for May. MDM Bank,
Russia’s second-largest private lender, cut bonds to 7 percent
of total lending, Chief Financial Officer  Vadim Sorokin  said.  
 While lending in the second quarter rose at the fastest pace
since 2008 as the economy rebounded from the biggest slump since
the collapse of the Soviet Union, Bank Rossii Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  said banks still preferred to “purchase securities and
build up liquidity.” Now, bond yields may climb as loans
increase an estimated 13 percent this year, said  Clemens Grafe ,
chief economist at UBS AG in Moscow.  
 “As demand for loans revives, some resources will be
redistributed away from high-yielding liquid instruments and
into loans to the corporate sector -- small and medium
businesses and also retail consumers,” said  Alexandra Volchenko ,
head of risk management and finance at  OAO Promzvyazbank  in
Moscow.  
 Russia’s third-largest private lender reduced securities
holdings by 1.7 percent in June to help boost loans by at least
15 percent this year, Volchenko said in an e-mail response to
questions. MDM, which completed a merger with Novosibirsk-based
Ursa Bank last August, trimmed securities to 7 percent of its
loan portfolio as lending expanded, Sorokin said.  
 ‘Better Off’  
 The Finance Ministry expects the credit expansion to
continue through the end of this year, Deputy Finance Minister
 Alexei Savatyugin  said in an interview in Moscow yesterday.
Banks are “better off” today than a year ago, he said.  
 Lending growth helped cut the annual cost for companies to
borrow in rubles by 240 basis points, or 2.4 percentage points,
between January and May to an average  11.4 percent , the  lowest 
level since July 2008, according to the central bank.  
 The decline compared with the 70 basis-point drop in yields
to 7.02 percent on Russia’s sovereign OFZ bonds due December
2014 for the same period. The yield on 2012 ruble bonds of
Moscow-based OAO Gazprom declined 140 basis points to 6.9
percent between January and May, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Russian banks are charging 2.74 percent to lend to each
other overnight, a decrease of 321 basis points from Jan. 25.
The so-called MosPrime rate peaked at 25.17 percent in January
2009 as lenders sought rubles after global credit markets seized
up.  
 ‘Less Risky’  
 Buying securities during the credit crisis “was a less
risky strategy because demand for loans was low and securities
with fixed yields carried a lot less risk than loans,”  Rustam Botashev , the deputy head of research at UniCredit SpA in Moscow,
said in an interview.  
 “Bank lending will expand this year, albeit at a weak
pace,” Botashev said. “Banks’ holdings of securities will
decline as a share of total lending.”  
 Bank Rossii cut interest rates 14 times between April 2009
and May this year to spur lending and help the economic recovery.
The central bank is likely to keep rates unchanged in coming
months, the regulator said in a June 30 statement. The
government predicts the economy will grow 4 percent this year as
oil, the country’s biggest export earner, rallies from a record
decline in the second half of 2008.  
 ‘Quality Borrowers’  
 Retail sales  growth accelerated for a fifth month in May to
an annual 5.1 percent while real wages rose 7 percent and
disposable incomes climbed 2.8 percent.  Investment in production
capacity  increased 5.5 percent for a third monthly gain,
according to data compiled by the Federal Service of State
Statistics in Moscow and Bloomberg.  
 The second quarter saw a “clear trend” toward reviving
demand from “quality borrowers,” said  Andrey Shalimov , the
head of treasury at Moscow-based lender  Bank Vozrozhdenie . “The
most recent decrease in the refinancing rate and the central
bank’s statement that further decreases are unlikely spurred
many borrowers to seek new bank financing. Lower rates have made
credit more accessible for a broader range of borrowers.”  
 The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 and sold in
April fell for a fourth day, dropping by 2 basis points to 5.210
percent yesterday. The cost of protecting Russian debt against
non-payment for five years with credit-default swaps declined 11
basis points to 169 on July 13, the lowest since May 18. The
contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses on debt
or speculate on creditworthiness, pay the buyer face value if a
borrower reneges on its obligations.  
 Russia Vs Turkey  
 Credit-default swaps on Russian debt, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, cost the same as contracts for Turkey, which
is rated four levels lower at Ba2. That  difference  has narrowed
since April 20, when Turkey’s CDS were 40 basis points higher.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries today rose 1 basis point to 246,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ indexes. The spread
compares with 176 for debt of similarly rated Mexican debt and
221 for Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by
Moody’s.  
 The  yield  difference on Russian bonds is 60 basis points
below the average for emerging markets, according to JPMorgan
indexes.  
 Banks held 1.2 trillion rubles in corporate debt at the end
of April and a further 594.8 billion rubles of bonds issued by
non-residents, according to the most recent central bank  data .
The total amount of outstanding corporate debt is about 2.6
trillion rubles, according to UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow.  
 ‘Peculiar Market’  
 Yields on corporate bonds may climb as banks free up funds
for lending, said Grafe at UBS, which forecasts a 13 percent
jump in overall lending this year.  
 “The question is who’s ultimately going to be the owner of
ruble securities,” said Grafe. “The outlook for that market is
not such that I would really want to hold ruble securities. It’s
a very peculiar market because the only buyer of corporate ruble
bonds is essentially Russian banks.”  
 VTB Group, Russia’s second biggest bank, will “maintain a
relatively stable securities portfolio,” Chief Financial
Officer  Herbert Moos  said in an e-mail response to questions.  
 ZAO Raiffeisenbank , the Russian unit of Raiffeisen
International Bank Holding AG, said demand is still rising for
corporate bonds even after the bank reduced holdings of
securities to 15.2 percent of total lending at the end of May.  
 “We see increased demand for loans,” Chief Executive
Officer  Pavel Gurin  said in an e-mail. “We still see a large
demand for corporate bonds both from corporates to place and
banks to purchase.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev. Photographer:Dmitry Beliakov/Bloomberg News.  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
