-- Rwanda's Economy to Growth Between 7% and 8% This Year, Central Bank Says
-- Sarah McGregor
-- 2010-07-14T10:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/rwanda-s-economy-to-growth-between-7-and-8-this-year-central-bank-says.html

          
          
             Rwanda’s economy will expand between
7 percent and 8 percent this year as the global recovery
stimulates demand for exports from the coffee-producing nation,
central bank Governor  Francois Kanimba  said  
 “As the world economy is getting out of recession, there’s
a positive impact for our exports,” Kanimba said in an
interview in Kenya’s capital, Nairobi, today. “The minimum we
see growth at is 7 percent and maybe as high as 8 percent.”  
 The economy grew at least 6 percent last year, more than
the government’s original projection of 5.3 percent, he said.
Gross domestic product will probably expand 7 percent in 2010,
Finance Minister  John Rwangombwa  said on May 28.  
 Government subsidies to farmers to buy fertilizers and
seeds have boosted agricultural output and pushed up growth over
the past few years, Joseph Nzabonikuza, director of research and
policy at the National Bank of Rwanda, said in a separate
interview today in Nairobi.  
 Rwanda, a landlocked central African nation, is rebuilding
its economy after about 800,000 people, or more than a 10th of
its population, were killed in a 1994 genocide when ethnic Hutu
militias slaughtered minority Tutsis and moderate Hutus over a
100-day period.  
 Interest Rates  
 The central bank will probably keep its key interest rate
on hold at 7 percent on July 16, Kanimba said. Rwanda cut the
benchmark rate by half a percentage point at its last meeting in
March to help spur borrowing by businesses and households. The
decision this week to keep the key rate at 7 percent would be
supported by low inflation, Kanimba said.  
 Rwanda’s annual inflation rate climbed to 4.21 percent in
May from 2.74 percent a month earlier, the National Institute of
Statistics of Rwanda said on June 17.  
 “My current assessment is that we’re probably going to
keep the rate for the current quarter because it’s achieving the
goal of stimulating lending,” Kanimba said. “We think 7
percent is still appropriate.”  
 There may be more scope to change the rate when the
monetary policy committee, which gathers four times a year,
meets next in September, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        