-- MTS's `Unfair' Comstar Offer Should Be Rejected, Prosperity Capital Says
-- Jason Corcoran
-- 2010-07-14T15:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/mts-s-unfair-comstar-offer-should-be-rejected-prosperity-capital-says.html

          
          
             OAO Mobile TeleSystems ’ offer for
 OAO Comstar United TeleSystems  is “unfair” and should be
rejected, Prosperity Capital and East Capital, the two largest
managers of Russia-focused funds, said.  
 Prosperity and East, which together own 3 percent of
Comstar, said an offer by eastern Europe’s largest mobile-phone
company for a 9 percent stake at a price of 220 rubles per share
undervalues the telephony and internet company. The deal may see
MTS pay about $1 billion in cash and stock, the companies said
last month.  
 “We are demanding an improved offer and we will be going
to the board of Comstar and its independent directors to reject
the current terms,” said  Alexander Branis , chief investment
officer at Prosperity, which manages about $4.5 billion of
assets, in a phone interview this week. “Comstar deserves a
premium given its superior growth outlook, scope to improve
profitability and lower leverage.”  
 Moscow-based MTS, which owns about 62 percent of Comstar,
is seeking full control to cut costs and tap growing demand for
Internet services in eastern Europe. The boards of MTS and
Comstar both recommended the deal, the companies said last
month.  
 Jacob Grapengiesser , a partner at East Capital, which
oversees more than $6 billion in Russia and central and eastern
Europe, said he was against the offer. “It is unfair,”
Grapengiesser said in an e-mailed comment today.  
 Under the merger, Comstar will be folded into MTS and cease
to exist as a separate entity. The companies expect to complete
the deal, which requires approval from 75 percent of
shareholders, in the second quarter of 2011.  
 Maria Yeliseyeva , head of investor relations at Comstar,
said the company won’t comment until the board makes a
recommendation on the offer. Comstar fell 2.7 percent to 188.99
rubles at the close in Moscow trading. Its global depositary
receipts in London fell 1.3 percent to $6.04.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        