-- Sales at U.S. Retailers Fell for a Second Month in June
-- Shobhana Chandra
-- 2010-07-14T20:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/sales-at-u-s-retailers-fell-for-a-second-month-in-june.html

          
          
             Sales at U.S. retailers dropped in
June for a second month, indicating the economic recovery
dissipated heading into the second half of 2010.  
 Purchases  decreased 0.5 percent, more than projected, after
declining 1.1 percent in May, Commerce Department figures showed
today in Washington.  Excluding auto dealers , demand fell 0.1
percent, matching the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  
 Shares of retailers from  Target Corp.  to  Amazon.com Inc. 
fell on concern a lack of jobs and a loss of wealth will
restrain consumers, whose spending accounts for 70 percent of
the economy. Other reports showed the cost of imported goods
fell more than forecast and companies boosted inventories at the
slowest pace of the year in preparation for slackening demand.  
 “The consumer is losing some momentum,” said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist at UniCredit Group in New York.
“Job gains are not enough to bring the unemployment rate down.
It means the recovery goes on, just at a slower pace.”  
 The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Retailing Index , which
includes Target and Amazon.com fell 0.7 percent to close at
401.17. The broader  S&P 500  was little changed at 1,095.17, and
Treasury securities climbed, sending the yield on the benchmark
10-year note down to 3.05 percent at 4:48 p.m. in New York from
3.12 percent late yesterday.  
 Falling Prices  
 Prices of goods imported into the U.S. fell in June by the
most since January 2009, led by declines in costs of oil,
business equipment and consumer goods, a report from the Labor
Department also showed today. The 1.3 percent drop in the  import
price index  was more than projected and followed a revised 0.5
percent decline in May.  
 A lack of inflation and the financial turmoil caused by the
European debt crisis led the Federal Reserve last month to renew
a pledge to keep interest rates near zero. Minutes of the
meeting released today showed policy makers’ noted downside
risks had increased, lowered growth forecasts for this year and
reduced price estimates for 2010 though 2012.  
 Companies started bracing for slower growth when sales
began retreating in May. Inventories rose 0.1 percent that month
from April, the smallest gain this year, another Commerce
Department report showed today. The increase in the value of
 stockpiles  was smaller than the median forecast of economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News and followed a 0.4 percent advance
the prior month.  
 Gain in Inventories  
 “Inventory restocking is showing signs of fatigue,”  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Economy.com in West
Chester, Pennsylvania. “The recovery has lost some steam over
the past month, and the reluctance of small businesses to invest
and hire will contribute to a weak second half of this year.”  
 Retail sales were projected to fall 0.3 percent after a 1.2
percent drop previously reported for May, according to the
 median  estimate of 75 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Forecasts ranged from a decline of 0.8 percent to a 0.5 percent
gain.  
 Six of 13 major retail categories showed decreased demand
last month, led by a 2.3 percent fall at auto dealers. Vehicles
sold at an 11.1 million annual pace in June, the fewest in four
months,  industry data  showed. General Motors Co. and  Ford Motor
Co. , the two largest U.S. automakers, reported lower-than-
projected demand.  
 Furniture, building-material, sporting goods and grocery
stores were among the other areas seeing a pullback in
purchases.  
 Influence on Growth  
 Excluding autos, gasoline and building materials, which are
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, sales rose
0.2 percent after a 0.2 percent decrease the prior month.  
 Economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York trimmed
their tracking estimate of second-quarter growth to 2.2 percent
at an annual rate from 2.5 percent before the retail sales
report.  
 “The consumer slowed quite a bit in the second quarter,”
said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase.
“The recovery has shifted down to a weaker pace. It mirrors the
slowdown in the labor market.”  
 Companies boosted payrolls by 83,000 workers in June, a
Labor Department report showed this month. The gain was smaller
than the median forecast of economists surveyed. The jobless
rate dropped to 9.5 percent as discouraged jobseekers left the
workforce.  
 Europe’s debt crisis also poses a risk to the U.S. recovery
as sliding share prices hurt household wealth and shake consumer
and business confidence.  
 Minneapolis-based Target, the second-largest U.S. discount
retailer, reported a June same-store sales gain that included
strong demand for food and clothing and “particularly soft”
purchases of electronics and music.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Gap Chief Financial Officer Sabrina Simmons said “June was a difficult month with lighter traffic than we anticipated.” Photographer: Kim White/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Chamber of Commerce President Thomas Donohue talks about the "uncertainty" over pending regulations and its impact on the U.S. economy.
     Donohue, speaking on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop With Betty Liu," also discusses labor market policies and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's relationship with the White House. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Sales at U.S. retailers fell 0.5 percent in June, more than expected and for a second straight month, indicating the pace of economic recovery moderated heading into the second half of 2010. Bloomberg's Michael McKee and Betty Liu report. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A customer looks through Gap jeans at a store in New York. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
