-- Sales at U.S. Retailers Fell for a Second Month in June
-- Shobhana Chandra
-- 2010-07-14T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/sales-at-u-s-retailers-fall-more-than-forecast-as-pace-of-recovery-slows.html

          
          
             Sales at U.S. retailers fell in June
for a second month, indicating the pace of economic recovery 
moderated heading into the second half of 2010.  
 Purchases  decreased a more-than-projected 0.5 percent
following a 1.1 percent May drop, Commerce Department figures
showed today in Washington.  Excluding auto dealers , demand fell
0.1 percent, matching the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  
 Target Corp.  and  Gap Inc.  were among retailers whose sales
trailed forecasts, signaling a lack of jobs and a loss of wealth
are restraining spending, the biggest part of the economy. The
financial turmoil caused by the European debt crisis and cooling
inflation led the Federal Reserve last month to renew a pledge to
hold interest rates near zero.  
 “It is very difficult to see a sturdy consumer without
strong job growth, and we don’t have that yet,” Sal Guatieri, a
senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, said before
the report. “It’ll constrain the speed of the recovery.”  
 Retail sales were projected to fall 0.3 percent after a 1.2
percent drop previously reported for May, according to the  median 
estimate of 75 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Forecasts
ranged from a decline of 0.8 percent to a 0.5 percent gain.  
 Six of 13 major retail categories showed decreased demand
last month, led by a 2.3 percent fall at auto dealers. Vehicle
sold at an 11.1 million annual pace in June, the fewest in four
months,  industry data  showed. General Motors Co. and  Ford Motor
Co. , the two largest U.S. automakers, reported lower-than-
projected demand.  
 Declining Sales  
 Furniture, building-material, sporting goods and grocery
stores were among the other areas seeing a pullback in purchases.  
 Filling station sales fell 2 percent, today’s report showed.
The data aren’t adjusted for inflation so a drop in prices may
have trimmed receipts. The average cost of a gallon of the fuel
at the pump was $2.73 last month, down 11 cents from May,
according to figures from AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring
organization.  
 Excluding autos, gasoline and building materials, which are
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, sales rose
0.2 percent after a 0.2 percent decrease the prior month.  
 Europe’s debt crisis poses a risk to the U.S. recovery as
sliding share prices hurt household wealth and shake consumer and
business confidence.  
 Europe’s Influence  
 “Less supportive” financial conditions were cited by Fed
officials on June 23, when they reaffirmed forecasts for a
“moderate” pace of growth and kept interest rates unchanged. At
2 p.m., policy makers will release minutes of the meeting along
with their updated economic projections.  
 While an industrywide measure of sales at stores open at
least a year rose in June for the 10th consecutive month, results
trailed analysts’ estimates. Sales at 30 chains rose 3.1 percent
after a 2.7 percent gain in May, Retail Metrics Inc. said on July
8. Analysts estimated a 3.5 percent increase.  
 Minneapolis-based Target, the second-largest U.S. discount
retailer, reported a gain that included strong demand for food
and clothing and “particularly soft” purchases of electronics
and music.  
 Teen clothing chain American Eagle Outfitters Inc. posted a
drop from a year earlier compared with forecasts for an increase,
and said weak sales necessitated deeper promotions. Same-store
sales were unchanged at Gap, the San Francisco-based owner of
Gap, Banana Republic and Old Navy stores.  
 “June was a difficult month with lighter traffic than we
anticipated,” Gap’s Chief Financial Officer Sabrina Simmons said
in a July 8 statement.  
 Cooler Malls  
 Department stores fared better last month as price cuts and
record-high temperatures on the East Coast pushed more shoppers
into air-conditioned malls. Nordstrom Inc., J.C. Penney Co. and
Macy’s Inc. topped analysts’ average estimates.  
 Economists trimmed projections for consumer spending this
year to an average of 2.4 percent from 2.5 percent a month ago,
according to this month’s Bloomberg survey taken July 1 to July
8. They also marked down the 2010 growth estimate and said the
jobless rate, which reached a 26-year high of 10.1 percent in
October 2009, will average 9.6 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        