-- Hayek, Franco, Jumex Help Nomadic Art Upstart Raise $250,000
-- Katya Kazakina
-- 2010-07-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/salma-hayek-james-franco-jumex-help-nomadic-art-upstart-raise-250-000.html

          
          
             Salma Hayek ,  James Franco  and  John Baldessari  will help  Los Angeles Nomadic Division , a 9-month-old
nonprofit, raise $250,000 for public art exhibitions.  
 The two-part fundraiser starts today with a dinner at the
Beverly Hills residence of Eugenio Lopez Alonso, president of
the  Jumex Foundation  and heir to the fruit-juice fortune of
Mexico’s Jumex Group.  
 The 150 guests, each paying $1,000, will confront baby
beets and shavings of ham and parmesan. Actor Joaquin Phoenix
will attend. Sister Rain Phoenix will perform with the music
collective  Gift Horse Project .  
 Tomorrow there’ll be a cocktail reception and more music at
the Sunset Tower Hotel in West Hollywood, with tickets ranging
from $250 to $500.  
 LAND’S support by the Hollywood and art-world elite has a
lot to do with the group’s founder, Shamim Momin, 36, the
dynamic former curator of the Whitney Museum of American Art in
New York.  
 Momin spent 12 years at the museum, rising from a gallery
assistant to director of its Altria branch, which closed in
2008. She co-curated the Whitney Biennial in 2004 and 2008 and
organized the museum’s exhibitions by young artists  Terence Koh ,
Banks Violette and Mark Grotjahn.  
 Clout  
 “She carries a lot of clout because of her former position
at the Whitney,” said Danielle Amato-Milligan, president of
 Amato Milligan & Associates , a consultant for cultural
organizations.  
 Momin’s board members include Lauren Taschen, wife of
German book publisher and art collector  Benedikt Taschen , and
Lisa Anastos, an art patron also on the board of the New York-
based public-art organization Creative Time. Hayek, Franco and
Baldessari are co-chairmen for the nonprofit’s first benefit.  
 “It’s a small group but they are very hard-working and
dedicated, with a lot of connections,” said Momin in a
telephone interview. “They want to do something new and
different.”  
 LAND commissions new works for specific sites mainly in Los
Angeles. Its past venues included moving-image billboards on
Sunset Boulevard and a landmark modernist house designed by R.M.
Schindler.  
 The group’s first show was an October 2009 outdoor
screening of  Doug Aitken ’s dreamy video “Migration,” with an
improvised score performed by five bands. Nine other projects
have followed, including four by Mexican artists and a
commission for 57 artists from New York, L.A. and Europe to
create poster-inspired artworks for an exhibition coinciding
with the South by Southwest music and film festival in Austin.  
 Heavy-Hitter  
 “LAND is a museum without walls,” Momin said. “ Los
Angeles is a city built for a nomadic, fragmented existence. Why
not take advantage of that and make the whole city your
exhibition space?”  
 Unlike the Whitney, LAND has to operate on a shoestring
budget with four full-time employees aided by part-timers.  
 “You have lots of infrastructure at the Whitney that I no
longer have,” said Momin. “That said, it’s important for us to
maintain the same level of institutional rigor.”  
 That’s where big-name board members can make a difference.  
 “If you are a small organization with heavy-hitter names
attached, you are starting out at an advantage,” said Amato-
Milligan. “And that’s where she is.”  
 To contact the reporter of this story:
 Katya Kazakina  in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Shamim Momin  
                       
                         
                           LA Nomadic Division (LAND) via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Shamim  Momin, founder of the LA Nomadic Division. Momin spent 12 years at the Whitney Museum of American Art, rising from a gallery assistant to curator. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Shamim  Momin, founder of the LA Nomadic Division. Momin spent 12 years at the Whitney Museum of American Art, rising from a gallery assistant to curator. Source: LA Nomadic Division (LAND) via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Salma Hayek  
                       
                         
                           Francis Specker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Actress Salma Hayek arrives for the 66th Annual Golden Globe Awards in Beverly Hills. Hayek is among the boldface names helping Los Angeles Nomadic Division, a 9-month-old nonprofit, raise $250,000 for public art exhibitions. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Actress Salma Hayek arrives for the 66th Annual Golden Globe Awards in Beverly Hills. Hayek is among the boldface names helping Los Angeles Nomadic Division, a 9-month-old nonprofit, raise $250,000 for public art exhibitions. Photographer: Francis Specker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
