-- Schwarzenegger Has Lowest Approval for a California Governor in 50 Years
-- Michael B. Marois
-- 2010-07-14T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/schwarzenegger-has-lowest-approval-rate-in-50-years-california-poll-shows.html

          
          
             Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , the
movie star who swept to power in 2003 to replace  California’s 
unpopular chief executive, is now tied with the lowest approval
rating of any sitting governor in the state in 50 years, a
public opinion poll shows.  
 Schwarzenegger’s approval fell to 22 percent in the survey
by  Field Poll , the lowest since the 62-year-old Republican took
the post and tied with the trough Democrat  Gray Davis  saw before
he was tossed out in an unprecedented election recall.
Schwarzenegger enjoyed a 65 percent high through most of 2005.  
 A seven-time Mr. Olympia bodybuilding champion who played a
homicidal robot in the “Terminator” movies, Schwarzenegger’s
approval has declined as he’s been unable to fix some problems
he vowed to address when he first ran for office, such as the
state’s chronic budget deficits and a fractious Legislature.  
 “He promised to come in and blow up the boxes and the
boxes turned out to be pretty darn sturdy,” said  Jack Pitney ,
who teaches politics at Claremont McKenna College in Claremont,
California. “For a variety of reasons he simply didn’t live up
to his early promises. Some of this reflects the structure of
the state’s government and some of it reflects his own
shortcomings, mainly that he tends to overpromise and under-
deliver.”  
 Worst Showing  
 The 22 percent for Schwarzenegger and Davis is the worst
showing for a governor since the Field Poll began taking the
survey in 1959. Schwarzenegger, a political novice before his
electoral victory, cast himself as an outsider who wouldn’t be
beholden to donors and could end partisan rancor.  
 Schwarzenegger presided over the longest budget impasse in
state history in 2008, and last year California was forced to
pay bills with IOUs for only the second time since the Great
Depression. He and lawmakers are again locked in a stalemate
over a $19 billion deficit. He has vowed to thwart any tax
increases and has proposed $12 billion of spending cuts opposed
by Democrats who control the Legislature. Just 16 percent of
those surveyed approve of the lawmakers’ job performance.  
 “People have a right to be upset with their elected
officials, which is why the governor is fighting to reform our
broken budget, pension, and tax systems and get people back to
work,” Schwarzenegger’s spokesman,  Aaron McLear , said in an e-
mail.  
 Schwarzenegger must leave office in January because of term
limits.  Meg Whitman , the former EBay Inc. chief executive
officer, and former governor and current state Attorney General
 Jerry Brown  are vying to replace him. They were tied in a Field
Poll survey released July 7. Brown’s lowest approval rating,
while he was governor from 1975 through 1983, was 38 percent in
1980, according to the Field poll today. His highest was 69
percent in 1976.  
 The survey by San Francisco-based Field Research Corp. of
1,390 registered voters was conducted June 22 through July 5 and
has a sampling error of plus or minus 2.8 percentage points.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento, California, at   mmarois@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        