-- SEC Seeking Comment on Proposed New Rules for Corporate Election Ballots
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-07-14T15:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/sec-reviewing-whether-new-rules-are-needed-for-corporate-election-ballots.html

          
          
             The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is seeking comment on whether to stiffen rules for
corporate elections to ensure investors properly vote shares and
firms giving ballot advice don’t have conflicts of interest.  
 SEC commissioners voted 5-0 to solicit comment on topics
such as over-voting, in which too many shares are cast, and
empty voting, where investors with limited economic interest in
a firm get to weigh in on corporate policies. The so-called
concept release approved today at a meeting in Washington may
guide rules the agency proposes in the months and years ahead.  
 “The proxy is often the principal means for shareholders
and public companies to communicate with one another, and for
shareholders to weigh in on issues of importance,” SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  said at the meeting. “The transmission of this
communication must be -- and must be perceived to be -- timely,
accurate, unbiased, and fair.”  
 The SEC is examining corporate-governance reforms after
shareholders and companies complained that regulations haven’t
kept pace with changes in the market. More investors are using
derivatives to bet on companies, and big investors such as
public pension funds increasingly rely on outside firms to tell
them how to vote in corporate elections.  
 Stake Disclosure  
 The SEC, in a news release today, said it’s seeking input
on whether it should require investors to disclose economic
stakes in companies that aren’t tied to stock. For instance,
when a shareholder buys a put option to sell shares, they retain
voting rights for the stock even though they have hedged away
much of their economic interest in the company.  
 The agency’s concept release also asks about the role of
proxy-advisory firms.  
 The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s biggest business
lobby, has questioned whether advisory companies such as the
governance unit of Riskmetrics Group Inc. are conflicted. These
firms advise pension funds, including the California Public
Retirement System, how to vote while selling consulting services
to companies that want shareholders to back their board of
director candidates and policies.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        