-- Serbia Needs to Borrow an Additional $254 Million This Year, Toncic Says
-- Gordana Filipovic
-- 2010-07-14T13:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/serbia-to-borrow-an-additional-200-million-euros-this-year-toncic-says.html

          
          
             Serbia needs to borrow an additional
200 million euros ($254 million) this year to make up for the
lack of demand for Treasury bills at auctions in May and June,
the head of Serbia’s Debt Management Agency said.  
 The government is considering a bond that will be linked
either to the euro or  inflation  to limit risk perception in
future Treasury bill auctions, Branislav Toncic, the Agency’s
chief, said in a telephone interview in Belgrade today.  
 “By the end of the year we will have to make up for the
weaker demand in May and June,” Toncic said. “It will be best
to borrow via Treasury bills in the fourth quarter of the year,
but we also are considering borrowing from banks and issuing
bonds linked to the euro or inflation.”  
 Treasury bills, with maturities of three, six, 18 and 24
months, represent the key source of liquidity financing for the
Balkan nation’s 2010 budget. An 8 percent decline in the dinar
this year, along with a sluggish economic recovery and investor
concerns over fiscal turbulence in some euro-region countries,
have kept investors away from Serbian debt.  
 Auctions first sputtered in late May as the dinar slid
against the euro after the central bank cut two-week repurchase
rate to an all-time low of 8 percent on May 11. Since then, many
sales of longer-dated bills ended with a bid-to-cover ratio well
below 1. The dinar traded at 104.46 to the euro at 3:18 p.m. in
Belgrade.  
 The government reported today its six-month budget deficit
at 54.6 billion dinars ($660.4 million), more than half of the
102.25 billion-dinar deficit planned for the year, putting in
jeopardy a target agreed with the  International Monetary Fund .  
 ‘Sufficient Room’  
 The extra borrowing to make up for weaker investor demand
will amount to around 200 million euros, Toncic said.  
 “That is not too much and following an unchanged” debt
issuance “plan, we have sufficient room for new borrowing,”
Toncic said. Longer maturities, successfully sold between
January and April, mean there is no pressure on the government
to seek refinancing by the end of 2010, he said.  
 With financing pressures weak in July and August and not so
large maturities to be serviced, the government will be looking
for no new liquidity for its budget financing. The outstanding
Treasury-bill stock “is around 140 billion dinars” from 102
billion dinars or 103 billion dinars at the start of the year,
and by the end of August the government will have a clear idea
of its financing needs for the last four months of the year, he
said.  
 Sales Re-Launched  
 The government re-launched the sale of three-month Treasury
bills this week to ensure a steady flow of funds, offering the
market shorter maturities amid the currency volatility, though
Toncic said he expects some stabilization of the dinar “in the
coming weeks.”  
 Longer maturities are riskier for buyers because of the
exchange-rate and  interest-rate  risks, along with general market
instability, Toncic said.  
 “We have reduced planned issues of longer maturities,
expanded the six-month maturities and introduced again three-
month maturities,” Toncic said. “And the yield has already
fallen by the entire percentage point. But over the next month,
I expect the market to stabilize.”  
 The auction of three-month Treasury bills this week, with a
bid-to-cover ratio of 2.56, resulted in a borrowing cost for the
government of 10.3 percent. A week ago, six-month debt was sold
at 11.2 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        