-- Shougang to Take Over Tonghua Steel After Worker Riots Ended Earlier Sale
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-14T07:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/shougang-to-take-over-tonghua-steel-after-worker-riots-ended-earlier-sale.html

          
          
             Shougang Corp.  is near agreement to
buy Tonghua Iron & Steel Group and form China’s sixth-largest
steelmaker, a year after the local government scrapped a
previous deal following a fatal riot.  
 “The deal will be reached within a few days,”  Wu Jianxin ,
a Shougang spokesman, said today by phone, without giving
details. The combination of the two state-owned companies may
create a steelmaker with a combined production of 22.5 million
metric tons, based on last year’s figures.  
 Jianlong Steel Holding Co., a closely held mill, scrapped
its Tonghua takeover last year after workers worried about
layoffs following the deal killed an executive. Workers unrest
at car and electronic factories, including those run by Honda
Motor Co., have forced firms to offer higher wages this year.  
 “Shougang must have made commitments such as not planning
big layoffs to convince the Jilin government and the workers,”
 Ma Haitian , Beijing-based analyst at Beijing Antaike Information
Development Co., said. “Selling to Shougang would help the
loss-making Tonghua secure raw material supplies and a wider
market for its products.”  
 Beijing Shougang Co. , the listed unit of Shougang Corp.,
gained 0.9 percent to close at 3.22 yuan in Shenzhen trading.
The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index advanced 0.7 percent.  
 The Chinese government has vowed to speed up mergers
between steelmakers to cut overcapacity and help boost
bargaining power for raw materials including iron ore.  
 Production Targets  
 Shougang, owned by the Beijing city government, is seeking
to produce 25 million metric tons of crude steel this year, the
company said on its website. Last year, China’s seventh-largest
mill made 17.3 million tons of steel. State-owned Tonghua Steel
made 5.19 million tons last year, according to Antaike.  
 Anshan Iron & Steel Group , part of China’s fourth-biggest
steelmaker, pulled out of bidding for Tonghua as it is
progressing with a plan to merge with Pangang Group Co., Ma said.  
 Tianjin Bohai Iron & Steel Group was formed yesterday from
a combination of four state-owned producers in Tianjin city, the
local government said today on its  website .  
 The four companies are Tianjin Pipe Group Corp., Tianjin
Tiantie Metallurgical Group Co., Tianjin Iron & Steel Group Co.
and Tianjin Metallurgy Group Co., the government said.  
 They will have a combined capacity of almost 20 million
tons a year, according to Beijing Antaike Information
Development Co.  
 -- Helen Yuan . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Keith Gosman .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        