-- Singapore May Need to `Tighten Screws' With Currency After Record Growth
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-07-15T06:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/singapore-may-need-to-tighten-screws-with-currency-after-record-growth.html

          
          
             Singapore may be forced to consider
allowing further gains in its currency after a record first-half
expansion put the economy in contention for the world’s fastest-
growing this year.  
 The government yesterday reported an 18.1 percent surge in
 gross domestic product  in the first half, unprecedented in data
going back to 1975. Record tourist arrivals are benefitting
companies from Singapore Airlines Ltd. to casino operator Las
Vegas Sands Corp., while a two-year-low jobless rate has helped
spur a 38 percent jump in house prices in the past 12 months.  
 The  Monetary Authority of Singapore , which revalued the
currency in April, may need to repeat the move at the next
meeting in October without a cooling in growth, according to
HSBC Holdings Plc. The boom is a reflection of a strengthening
across Asia that’s prompted policy makers from Thailand to
Taiwan, Malaysia and South Korea to boost interest rates in
recent weeks.  
 “With numbers like these, there is a growing chance that
the MAS will have to tighten the screws again in October,” said
 Frederic Neumann , co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC in
Hong Kong and a former consultant to the World Bank. Slack in
Singapore’s economy “appears to have already vanished over the
course of the first half of the year. Domestic demand continues
to expand briskly, which should help to offset some of the
emerging weakness in export markets.”  
 Overheating Risk  
 Singapore’s economy will overheat if the country doesn’t
let in more foreign workers to counter a “tight” labor market,
Prime Minister  Lee Hsien Loong  was cited as saying by the
Business Times today. The government will introduce more
measures to cool rising property prices if necessary, he was
cited as saying in Houston, Texas, at the end of a visit.  
 Singapore’s central bank has for three decades used the
exchange rate, rather than a benchmark interest rate, as its
main tool for achieving price stability. The currency rose as
much as 1.2 percent versus its U.S. counterpart the day of the
April announcement, before slipping the following month as
Europe’s crisis threatened to slow the global expansion.  
 The Singapore dollar advanced 0.5 percent to S$1.3747 per
U.S. dollar at yesterday’s close. The  benchmark Straits Times
Index  of stocks posted its highest close since April, at
2,952.81. Both were little changed at 2:02 p.m. today.  
 Growth Forecast  
 The government raised its full-year GDP growth prediction
to as fast as 15 percent after yesterday’s figures. Private
economists also rushed to revise their projections after the
numbers, with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . now expecting a 16.5
percent expansion this year, and Citigroup Inc. predicting 15.5
percent.  
 Among the 183 economies for which the  International
Monetary Fund  has forecasts, only Qatar is calculated to expand
faster than the government’s forecast for Singapore. The IMF
expects Qatar, where the GDP was less than half of Singapore’s
$177 billion last year, to grow 18.5 percent in 2010. China said
today its economy grew 11.1 percent in the first half, while the
expansion in the second quarter was less than economists had
predicted.  
 Singapore’s retail sales excluding vehicles rose 7.8
percent in May after a 7.7 percent gain in April, the Statistics
Department said today. Inflation held at a 14-month high of 3.2
percent in May and the central bank forecasts the rate may
average as much as 3.5 percent this year.  
 Policy Moves  
 Asian economies are leading a global recovery that’s been
restrained by subdued expansions in Europe and the U.S., where
the jobless rate remains above 9 percent. Policy makers in the
region have moved to withdraw monetary stimulus, with Thailand
the latest to join in raising rates yesterday.  
 The MAS in April said it will “re-center the exchange rate
policy band at the prevailing level” of the Singapore dollar,
shifting to a stronger range for the currency to trade in. The
central bank guides the Singapore dollar against a basket of
currencies within an undisclosed band.  
 Citigroup analysts said yesterday a further tightening
“cannot be ruled out” for October, an assessment echoed by
 Standard Chartered Plc  economists. The analysts, as well as
HSBC’s Neumann, expect the central bank to at least maintain its
stance for a “modest and gradual appreciation” of the
Singapore dollar.  
 Singapore’s growth may slow in the second half as the
outlook for global trade is clouded by European budget cuts and
a slower-than-forecast American expansion.  
 Record Arrivals  
 “I wouldn’t expect an immediate reaction to the strong
growth data because the outlook remains clouded and there is
likely to be some weakening in the second half,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , a Hong Kong-based senior economist and strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB. He forecasts the currency will end the year
at S$1.38 per dollar.  
 Visitor arrivals reached record levels in the six months
through May and tourism is likely to continue to increase as
millions throng Singapore’s two casinos that opened this year.
The island will play host to the inaugural Youth Olympic Games
next month, and the  Singapore leg of Formula One , the world’s
most-watched motor sport, will take place in September.  
 “The continued improvement in the economy has certainly
boosted demand for travel on our flights,” said Singapore
Airlines spokesman  Nicholas Ionides . “Advance bookings are
encouraging, especially in business class.”  
 Singapore’s private home prices surpassed the previous all-
time peak achieved in 1996, after they rose 5.2 percent in the
second quarter following a 5.6 percent gain in the first three
months of the year, according to data released this month from
the Urban Redevelopment Authority.  
 “Jobs are being created, companies are expanding, and
there’ll be more demand for real estate, whether it’s for homes
or offices,” said  Christopher Fossick , managing director for
Singapore and Southeast Asia at Jones Lang LaSalle.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The Singapore dollar advanced 0.5 percent  
                       
                         
                           Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Singapore's prime minister Lee Hsien Loong. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Singapore's prime minister Lee Hsien Loong. Photographer: Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Ben McLannahan of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team discusses Singapore's economic growth.
     Singapore's growth accelerated to a record 18.1 percent pace in the first half of 2010, spurring the currency and putting the island on course to overtake China as Asia's fastest-growing economy this year. McLannahan speaks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
