-- Singapore Economy Expands 26% on Tourism, Services Jump
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-07-14T05:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/singapore-raises-growth-forecast-a-third-time-as-asia-rebounds.html

          
          
             Singapore’s growth accelerated to a
record 18.1 percent pace in the first half of 2010, spurring the
currency and putting the island on course to overtake China as
Asia’s fastest-growing economy this year.  
 Gross domestic product expanded  at a 26 percent annualized
pace in the second quarter from the previous three months, after
a revised 45.9 percent gain in January to March, the trade
ministry said today. Growth in the first half was the fastest
since records began in 1975, prompting the government to predict
 GDP  will rise 13 percent to 15 percent in 2010.  
 A year after Singapore exited its worst recession since
independence in 1965, tourists are arriving in record numbers
and companies including Standard Chartered Plc are boosting
hiring. The expansion is part of a rebound across Asia that has
prompted South Korea, Malaysia, Taiwan and India to raise
interest rates in recent weeks, even amid concern Europe’s debt
crisis may impair global growth.  
 “Singapore will be among the fastest-growing countries not
just in Asia, but the world, this year,” said  Song Seng-Wun , a
regional economist at CIMB Research Pte in Singapore. “Price
pressures are already evident and we expect the central bank to
be watching if inflation expectations are raised because of
these numbers.”  
 The nation’s growth has already prompted the  central bank 
to allow the currency to strengthen to temper inflationary
pressures. The Singapore dollar is used instead of interest
rates to conduct monetary policy in Southeast Asia’s fourth-
largest economy.  
 Currency Gains  
 The island’s currency added 0.4 percent to S$1.3766 per
U.S. dollar as of 12:51 p.m. local time, bringing this quarter’s
gain to 1.3 percent. The  benchmark Straits Times Index  rose for
a fifth day, climbing 0.6 percent, and is set for the highest
close since April 30.  
 The cost of insuring  Temasek Holdings Pte ’s bonds from non-
payment using credit-default swaps fell 4 basis points to 43
basis points as of 10:15 a.m. in Singapore, the lowest level
since June 21, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
CMA prices. Temasek, a state investment company, is often used
as a proxy for Singapore sovereign credit risk.  
 Estimates by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., BNP Paribas,
Macquarie Group Ltd. and China International Capital Corp. for
China’s 2010 growth range from 9.5 percent to 10.1 percent,
compared with Singapore’s estimate for an expansion of at least
13 percent this year.  
 Significant Momentum  
 Singapore’s  full-year growth  has not exceeded 13 percent
since 1972, when the economy was about a twelfth of last year’s
size, according to the statistics department.  
 Singapore’s performance suggests “that the regional
recovery retained significant momentum in recent months,”  Brian Jackson , a Hong Kong-based senior emerging markets strategist at
Royal Bank of Canada, said in an e-mail. “We continue to
forecast further gradual policy normalization across the region
over the rest of the year, including moderate appreciation in
the Singapore dollar.”  
 Policy makers in neighboring Malaysia have raised interest
rates three times this year, matching the number of increases by
India’s central bank. In Taiwan, Governor  Perng Fai-nan  moved
the key rate 12.5 basis points higher last month and the Bank of
Korea unexpectedly increased its benchmark last week.  
 “With growth likely to remain above trend for the rest of
the year, the Monetary Authority of Singapore may be inclined to
maintain the policy of gradual appreciation at its October
policy meeting,”  Wai Ho Leong , a regional economist at Barclays
Plc in Singapore, said in a note after the report. He raised
Singapore’s 2010 growth forecast to 14.5 percent and predicted
the currency may climb to S$1.35 per U.S. dollar in one year.  
 Slot Machines  
 The two casinos run by  Genting Singapore Plc  and Las Vegas
Sands Corp. opened in February and April this year after Prime
Minister  Lee Hsien Loong ’s government scrapped a four-decade ban
to help double tourism revenue by 2015. The resorts have
attracted millions of visitors to their slot machines and
baccarat and roulette tables.  
 The  economy  grew 19.3 percent in the second quarter from a
year earlier, compared with the median estimate for a 17.3
percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 “Growth in the trade-related sectors was bolstered by
healthy global trade flows, while the openings of the integrated
resorts and higher  visitor arrival numbers  contributed to the
growth in the tourism-related sectors,” the trade ministry said
in a statement. “The financial services sector also grew
strongly, supported by increased foreign-exchange trading and
domestic bank-lending activities.”  
 Austerity Programs  
 Still, Singapore’s dependence on global trade may mean it’s
unlikely to escape the impact of any renewed slowdown.
Governments in Europe are embarking on austerity programs to cut
budget deficits and households in some of the world’s largest
economies are holding back spending, clouding the outlook for
the rebound.  
 “In the European Union, domestic demand remains depressed
as concerns over the sovereign-debt crisis persist,” the trade
ministry said. “The implementation of fiscal austerity measures
in some of the economies may further weaken their domestic
demand. The weakening of the euro against key trading partners
will also dampen import demand in the European Union.”  
 Signs of a “slowdown in the labor market” in the U.S.
have affected consumer confidence, and “sluggish final demand”
from the world’s largest economy as well as Europe has led to a
moderation in manufacturing in Asia, the ministry said.  
 Singapore’s non-oil domestic exports  will probably gain
between 17 percent and 19 percent in 2010, from a previous
projection of as much as 17 percent, the trade promotion agency
said today. Overseas shipments rose 28.7 percent in June from a
year earlier, after increasing a revised 24.3 percent the month
before, the government said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “Singapore will be among the fastest-growing countries not just in Asia, but the world, this year,” said Song Seng-Wun. an Photographer: Charles Pertwee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Ben McLannahan of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team discusses Singapore's economic growth.
     Singapore's growth accelerated to a record 18.1 percent pace in the first half of 2010, spurring the currency and putting the island on course to overtake China as Asia's fastest-growing economy this year. McLannahan speaks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
