-- Singapore Dollar Rises to Three-Week High on Growth Data, Outlook Revision
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-07-14T01:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/singapore-dollar-rises-to-three-week-high-on-growth-data-outlook-revision.html

          
          
             The Singapore dollar rose to the
strongest level in three weeks after the government raised its
2010 economic growth forecast, fueling speculation the central
bank will keep an appreciation policy to curb inflation.  
 The city-state’s currency advanced the most this month
after Singapore announced gross domestic product expanded at a
26 percent annual pace in the second quarter following the
biggest surge in the previous three months since at least 1975.
Intel Corp., the world’s biggest chip maker, yesterday reported
record sales for last quarter, supporting gains in regional
stocks and currencies.  
 “The Singapore and Intel numbers suggest that global
growth is recovering and is far more stable than what the market
is pricing in,” said  Wai Ho Leong , a regional economist at
Barclays Plc in the island republic. “The Monetary Authority of
Singapore may at the very least maintain a modest and gradual
appreciation stance for the currency at the next policy
meeting.”  
 The Singapore dollar rose 0.5 percent to S$1.3751 against
the greenback as of 9:47 a.m. local time, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It reached S$1.3733, the highest level
since June 21. The currency has climbed 2 percent this year, the
fourth-best performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies
outside of Japan.  
 The economy will expand between 13 percent and 15 percent
in 2010, up from an earlier forecast for growth of as much as 9
percent, the trade ministry said in a statement today. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 14 economists is
for 10.7 percent growth.  
 Further Appreciation  
 Singapore on April 14 unexpectedly revalued its currency
and said it will seek further strength to contain inflation. The
local dollar will likely trade between S$1.3720 and S$1.3800 for
the rest of this week, Leong said.  
 The  Monetary Authority of Singapore , which uses the
exchange rate rather than interest rates to conduct monetary
policy, said in April that it will seek a “modest and gradual
appreciation” in the local dollar after shifting to a stronger
range for currency fluctuations. It will announce its next
biannual review in October.  
 There is a possibility that the central bank could tighten
its monetary stance in October by seeking further gains if
 inflation  gathers momentum, Leong said.  
 The central bank currently targets inflation for this year
at 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent. Consumer prices rose 3.2 percent
in May from a year earlier, matching a 14-month high, official
data on June 23 showed.  
 Singapore’s first-quarter GDP was revised higher to a
record 45.9 percent growth rate, the trade ministry said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  in Singapore at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        