-- Slovakia Agrees to Back European Union's Rescue Package, Ending Dispute
-- Radoslav Tomek
-- 2010-07-15T13:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/slovak-cabinet-delays-debate-on-whether-to-support-euro-area-rescue-fund.html

          
          
             Slovakia’s government agreed to back
the European Union’s rescue package, ending a dispute that
threatened to break the bloc’s unity over the mechanism aimed at
preventing the sovereign debt crisis from spreading.  
 Cabinet ministers approved the creation of the European
Financial Stability Facility, government spokesman Rado Bato
told reporters in Bratislava today. Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova ’s SDKU party and its partners, who took power last
week, opposed the mechanism before June 12 elections.  
 The decision by ends a month of uncertainty after the
previous administration of  Robert Fico  refused to sign the
agreement, saying it no longer had a mandate after losing the
vote. Radicova’s government, which controls 79 of parliament’s
150 seats, backed the facility, which would sell debt backed by
440 billion euros ($559 billion) in national guarantees and use
the proceeds to lend to euro-area nations in need.  
 “To have a total unity for the package is very important
for EU leaders,” said  Lars Christensen , chief emerging-markets
analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “If Slovakia pushed
the issue too hard, then it would essentially be saying ‘we are
not in this club.’ And other eurozone countries would make
Slovakia’s life hard for not cooperating.”  
 Guarantees  
 Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the group of euro-area
finance ministers, met with Radicova on July 13 to press for a
signature on the facility. The guarantees become operational as
soon as lawmakers in nations representing 90 percent of the
shareholding give their approval, Juncker said on June 7.
Slovakia’s share is about 1 percent, or 4.4 billion euros.  
 The Slovak approval is “positive,” European Commission
spokeswoman  Pia Ahrenkilde-Hansen  told a press conference in
Brussels.  
 The fund is part of a 750 billion-euro aid package that
European Union finance ministers hammered out to combat the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis. An additional 60 billion euros
will come from the European Commission -- the EU’s executive arm
-- and 250 billion euros from the International Monetary Fund.  
 The Slovak government in a statement said that it will
grant guarantees to an individual country only after a
“significant” strengthening of the Growth and Stability Pact,
which should include also provisions of managed bankruptcy.  
 The recipient will also need to show that it isn’t able to
get funds on financial markets and will have to adhere to
policies dictated by the IMF, the statement said.  
 Even as the government decided to support the plan, it
recommended that lawmakers reject Slovakia’s participation in a
loan pool to Greece, Bato said. Slovakia is supposed to disburse
816 million euros as its share in the euro region’s 80 billion-
euro loan to the country.  
 The case of Greece “is about irresponsible government
policies, irresponsible behavior of the banking sector, rating
agencies and also Eurostat,” Radicova said at a press
conference after the Cabinet meeting.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Radoslav Tomek  in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        