-- Small U.S. Banks May Struggle Under TARP Payments, Oversight Panel Says
-- Rebecca Christie
-- 2010-07-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/small-u-s-banks-may-struggle-with-burden-of-tarp-obligations-report-says.html

          
          
             Small U.S. banks that took money
from the Troubled Asset Relief Program may struggle under the
weight of their repayment obligations, said a watchdog group led
by Harvard University law professor  Elizabeth Warren .  
 The Treasury Department may be stuck for some time with
stakes in banks that can’t raise replacement capital, the
Congressional Oversight Panel said. Banks that can’t repay their
TARP capital by 2013 will see their dividend payment grow to 9
percent from the current 5 percent rate.  
 “If they are unable to access new capital by the time the
dividend rate increases, more small banks may become trapped,”
the report said. “A growing number could default on their
obligations to taxpayers, be forced to consolidate, or collapse
completely.”  
 Warren said the Treasury needs to work “aggressively” to
help small banks and encourage lending to small businesses. She
said small banks have not benefited as much from TARP as larger
counterparts that received the bulk of the funds and were able
to exit sooner. Among the larger banks to receive funds were
Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp.  
 The panel recommended that the Treasury clarify its exit
strategy and also develop a policy for how to handle banks that
miss six or more dividend payments and trigger a provision that
lets the government replace board members. The Treasury
Department injected about $205 billion in capital into 707
banks, including 690 with assets of less than $100 billion, the
report said.  
 Late Payments  
 So far, about 10 percent of the participating smaller banks
have repaid taxpayers, and another 15 percent are late on at
least one dividend payment, the report said. One small bank has
missed six dividend payments, and another eight have missed five
consecutive quarterly payments.  
 Treasury Department spokesman  Mark Paustenbach  said TARP is
“still providing relief” to participating small banks. He said
there have been four failures of small banks that accepted
capital injections, or 0.6 percent of banks that took TARP
funds. Out of all U.S. banks, 2.9 percent have failed since the
end of 2007, he said.  
 Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said last month that
the capital injections for small banks were designed to help
them weather the economic crisis. The Treasury will work with
the banks to give them alternatives to slashing lending in a way
that would harm the recovery, he told Warren’s panel in a June
22 hearing.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Elizabeth Warren, chairwoman of the Congressional Oversight Panel for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, talks about the effectiveness of TARP and the viability of a consumer protection bureau, which would be created under the financial overhaul bill.  
     Warren talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop."
 (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Rodgin Cohen, senior chairman of Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, discusses proposed legislation to overhaul the U.S. financial regulatory system.
     Cohen talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
