-- Smart Money Has `Train Wreck' at Top of BRIC League: Eric Kraus
-- Eric Kraus
-- 2010-07-14T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/smart-money-puts-train-wreck-at-top-of-brics-commentary-by-eric-kraus.html

          
          
             Time and again, we hear dire
warnings about Russia and its place among the BRIC nations.
That’s great news for investors.  
 Most of us aren’t smart enough to reliably outperform a
rational, fully arbitraged market, so we avoid the crowded
trades and seek to profit from mispricing by trading against
misinformation, bias and sheer pigheadedness, none of which is
in short supply when it comes to Russia.  
 While the casual reader could be excused for imagining
Russian markets as an ongoing train wreck, the data may
surprise. Although Russia was widely written off as a failed
state in 1998, the country’s long-dated Eurobonds returned 20
times your investment over the ensuing decade. That almost
matched the returns on the equity market, which gained 2,500
percent, and handily outperformed any peer group you choose.  
 Since then, it has been a wild ride, but once again, after
a nasty sell-off during the global credit crunch, Russia has
bounced back. The benchmark  Russian Trading System Index  has
risen 63 percent over the past year, trouncing the remaining
members of the BRIC quartet:  Brazil  (up 30 percent),  India  (up
29 percent) and  China  (down 21 percent).  
 The story is only half played out, and much like the
beginning of the last decade, Russia is again one of the
cheapest emerging markets. The smart money is betting it won’t
stay that way; this year the inflows into Russia funds have
topped the BRICs league.  
 Magic Wand  
 Clearly, there are serious problems such as corruption,
property rights and governance, but Russia doesn’t exactly have
a monopoly here. Take property rights: Yes, BP Plc had a spot of
bother getting into an ill-advised fight with its Russian
partners, but a light touch of the Kremlin’s magic wand, and hey
presto, everyone was friends again. The oil company continues to
enjoy bounteous cash-flows from its investment in TNK-BP Ltd.,
its deal of the century.  
 It wasn’t quite so lucky in the Gulf of Mexico, although BP
assumed itself to be protected by legal limitations capping its
liability at $75 million. When an oil well it had commissioned
blew out, the U.S. government retroactively tore up the rulebook
with nary a hint of judicial process or recourse. The oil giant
was crippled with potentially unlimited liability, a $20 billion
down payment was extracted, along with a freeze on asset sales.
Worst of all, terrified of Washington, BP rolled over without a
fight. Just imagine the press coverage had it been Russia.  
 So, why is the RTS trading with a forward price/earnings
ratio of about six? Besides the negative coverage in the Western
press, the discount is attributable to three main things:  
 First, there is still a hangover from the sell-off during
the global 2008 credit crisis, which triggered a major liquidity
squeeze for Russian businesses, which were dangerously dependent
on international bank finance. Russia sacrificed $200 billion in
reserves to provide liquidity to its domestic market. Unlike its
peers in the Group of Eight nations, it used savings, not
borrowed money, to do so. Two years later, the corporate sector
is a net foreign creditor to the tune of $40 billion; given
gross sovereign indebtedness of less than 10 percent of  gross
domestic product , many European finance ministers must wish they
had Russia’s problems.  
 Second, the RTS is  largely comprised  of large oil
companies, plus a couple of major state-owned enterprises. Like
every major oil exporter from Norway to Venezuela, Russia has
decided that subsoil resources belong to the nation. The Finance
Ministry captures the lion’s share of export revenue, leaving
the companies to function by a “utilities” model -- modestly
profitable whatever the oil price, but with limited upside.  
 Worthy Undertakings  
 Buying state-owned behemoths such as  OAO Gazprom  or the
oil-transport monopoly OAO Transneft is akin to acquiring shares
in the Education Ministry: worthy undertakings, but don’t
imagine investor returns to be their main priority.  
 Oddly enough -- this makes asset allocation fairly easy --
anyone owning a diversified Russian portfolio, minus the oil
blue chips and state-controlled companies, has done very well
this year.  
 Finally, trading on global risk tolerance, European debt
concerns, Chinese growth scares -- everything but its own
fundamentals -- the Russian equity market gives a whole new
meaning to the term “high-beta.” For as long as global markets
live in terror of a generalized G-7 sovereign-debt crisis,
Russian shares will remain something of a gamble.  
 Fortunately, debt markets are a bit less hysterical than
equities. Russian sovereign credit-default swaps are performing
better than those of several European Union member countries, as
well as a half-dozen U.S. states. The bonds of the top Russian
banks are doing better than some of their European peers.  
 Decoupling Markets  
 Russian markets aren’t for the fainthearted, nor for the
impatient. Financial markets eventually converge with the
underlying economics, and the “decoupling” between the G-7 and
the emerging markets is for real. But so far it has involved the
economies, not the financial markets. Russia is no exception,
with GDP growth of about 5 percent, less than such paradigms of
free-market orthodoxy as China and Argentina but great by
Western standards. With low debt levels, it is a rerating just
waiting to happen.  
 Russian markets are fashion victims, and are currently both
unfashionable and cheap. You can own them now, or wait and buy
the next time they surge back into vogue. And I will be selling
out just about then.  
 ( Eric Kraus  is a special adviser on global strategy for
Moscow-based Otkritie Financial Co. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Eric Kraus at  krausmoscow@yahoo.com   
          
          


  


        