-- Sony Financial Seeks Asia Expansion as Japan's Population Ages, Ihara Says
-- Komaki Ito
-- 2010-07-14T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/sony-financial-seeks-asia-expansion-as-japan-s-population-ages-ihara-says.html

          
          
             Sony Financial Holdings Inc. , the
insurance and banking unit of Sony Corp., plans to expand its
business in Asia, possibly through mergers and acquisitions, as
an aging population constrains growth at home.  
 “When you look at the long-term growth prospects of our
business, overseas expansion is inevitable given the demographic
problems Japan faces,” said  Katsumi Ihara , 59, who became the
chief executive officer last month after more than two decades
of working for the parent firm, in an interview in Tokyo. “Asia
is where we see the biggest growth potential, both economically
and population-wise.”  
 Sony Financial,  60 percent-owned  by the maker of Bravia
televisions and PlayStation 3 consoles, has already opened
offices in Taipei and Beijing, Ihara said. Alliances and merger
and acquisitions will be “very possible means” for expansion,
he said, declining to elaborate.  
 Sony Financial, which  derives  almost 90 percent of revenue
from its life insurance unit, has built its business by coming
up with new strategies such as selling auto insurance online.  
 While the Tokyo-based company has grown its market share
domestically through its own business strategy, it is now
confronted with a declining population and an aging society,
forcing it and peers to seek growth abroad.  
 Ihara said he aims to get Sony Financial’s three main
businesses -- life insurance, casualty insurance and banking --
to work more closely together as part of efforts to boost
profitability.  
 Sony Brand  
 Sony Financial estimates  profit  will decline 17 percent to
40 billion yen ($450 million) in the year through March 2011, it
said in May. Losses on investments and an increase in policy
payments may weigh on earnings, it said.  
 In March, the insurer said it will change its asset
allocation policy for some products to make “stable
investments” in bonds from April 1, 2010, replacing equity and
risky assets. The change will let Sony Financial boost
policyholder  returns  and raise embedded value, a life insurer’s
worth based on net assets and current sales.  
 Sony Financial  shares  have gained 31 percent this year,
 compared  with a 4.1 percent decline by the benchmark Topix index.
The stock closed down 0.2 percent at 316,500 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange yesterday.  
 Ihara said he hopes his experience at Sony, where he headed
the firm’s consumer electronics business, will be useful in
expanding the business overseas.  
 “Sony has a very strong  brand  image abroad, and I’m hoping
that will be our strength in expanding,” he said. “We started
with this Sony spirit to change something that’s already become
a norm by offering new products such as internet sales of
insurance, so we must continue to cherish that spirit to grow
further.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Katsumi Ihara, chief executive officer of Sony Financial Holdings Inc.. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
