-- South African Retail Sales Climb for Fifth Straight Month on Interest Rate
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-07-14T10:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/south-african-retail-sales-rise-for-fifth-straight-month-on-interest-rate.html

          
          
             South African retail sales rose for
the fifth consecutive month in May as interest rates near a 30-
year low helped to spur consumer spending.  
 Sales  climbed an annual 4.6 percent after gaining a revised
2.9 percent in April, Pretoria-based  Statistics South Africa 
said on its website today. The  median estimate  of nine
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for an increase of 3.7
percent. Sales rose a seasonally adjusted 1.3 percent in the
month.  
 Consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of the
economy, has been slow to rebound from last year’s recession,
prompting the Reserve Bank to cut its benchmark interest  rate  by
half a percentage point to 6.5 percent in May. The economy has
continued to shed jobs, offsetting the impact of lower rates and
curbing  consumer confidence  in the second quarter.  
 “The numbers were stronger than expected,” said Rian le
Roux, chief economist at Old Mutual Investment Group in Cape
Town. Consumers “are looking a bit healthier. Wage settlements
have been pretty high and interest rates are much lower than
where they were.”  
 Central bank Governor  Gill Marcus , who will make her next
interest rate decision on July 22, said on July 7 that the
economic recovery is “hesitant, fragile and uneven.”  
 ‘Broad Weakness’  
 The economy shed 171,000 jobs in the first quarter, pushing
the  jobless rate  to 25.2 percent, the highest of 62 countries
tracked by Bloomberg. The FNB/BER consumer confidence index
dropped by 1 point to 14 in the second quarter, First National
Bank said on June 14.  
 “The data we’ve been gathering on credit card
transactions, trade confidence, even employment growth over this
period, suggests that the picture is still one of broad
weakness, even though consumption is on a recovery path,”  Razia Khan , chief economist for Africa at Standard Chartered Plc in
London, said in e-mailed comments. There is still room “for
further rate easing to help South Africa’s highly indebted
consumers and the  inflation  outlook is sufficiently benign to
support this.”  
 The rand traded at 7.5592 as of 12:10 a.m. in Johannesburg,
from 7.5451 before the release of the retail data.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        