-- Spain to Sell $3.8 Billion of Debt in Last Auction Before July Redemptions
-- Emma Ross-Thomas
-- 2010-07-14T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/spain-to-sell-15-year-bonds-in-debt-auction-as-deficit-pressures-increase.html

          
          
             Spain aims to sell as much as 3
billion euros ($3.8 billion) of debt today in its final bond
auction before facing its biggest debt maturities for the rest
of the year, marking the latest test of demand for securities of
Europe’s high-deficit nations.  
 Spain probably will pay more than at the last auction. The
yield on equivalent 15-year Spanish bonds in secondary markets
reached 5.21 percent yesterday, compared with the 4.434 percent
Spain paid at the previous auction on April 22. At that sale,
demand was 1.79 times the amount sold, the Treasury said.  
 “The markets make their concession going into it and the
auction process itself goes smoothly,” said  Sean Maloney , a
fixed-income strategist at Nomura International Plc in London.  
 Spain, which has 24.7 billion euros of debt maturing this
month, is trying to convince investors it can cut the third-
largest deficit in the euro region while strengthening its
financial system. The government is hoping the publication of
stress tests next week will improve lenders’ access to capital
markets and reduce their dependence on the European Central
Bank, while reassuring investors about the cost of any bailout.  
 Spanish lenders borrowed a record 126.3 billion euros from
the ECB in June, up 48 percent from the previous month,
according to data compiled by the Bank of Spain. That compares
with a drop of 4 percent to 496.6 billion euros for euro-area
lenders in the whole euro area.  
 Greek, Portuguese Sales  
 Spain’s bond auction comes after Greece sold Treasury bills
on July 13 for the first time since accepting a three-year
bailout plan from the EU in May after its borrowing costs
surged. It secured an interest rate at the July 13 sale below
the 5 percent charged on the emergency European loans. Portugal
sold more debt than targeted in an auction yesterday, a day
after Moody’s Investors Service cut the country’s credit rating,
and Italy also sold 6.8 billion euros of bonds yesterday.  
 “The biggest threat to the auction would be a kind of
saturation,” Maloney said.  
 The government has said it will have no trouble paying the
July redemptions, as repayment coincides with a period of brisk
tax revenue.  
 “The markets know perfectly well that we have been
executing our funding strategy beyond our needs with no
particular concern,” Deputy Finance Minister Jose Manuel Campa
said in an interview June 22. As an example of the Treasury’s
strategy, he said Spain didn’t have to go to the market to raise
its portion of the emergency loan extended to Greece in May.  
 Financing Costs  
 Still, financing costs are rising, with the yield premium
investors demand to hold Spain’s 10-year debt over comparable
German bonds at 206.4 basis points, more than twice the average
of the past 12 months.  
 Fitch Ratings cut Spain’s credit rating to AA+ on May 28,
citing concerns about the economy’s ability to grow. Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services ranks Spain AA, while Moody’s Investors
Service put the country’s rating on review for a possible
downgrade on June 30, citing deteriorating growth prospects and
the risk the government won’t meet its fiscal targets.  
 As a result of austerity measures including public wage
cuts, a reduction in investment and a pension freeze, the
government revised its growth forecast for next year to 1.3
percent from 1.8 percent. That’s still more than double the
International Monetary Fund’s 0.6 percent forecast.  
 Even with Spain’s budget deficit at 11.2 percent of gross
domestic product, more than three times the EU limit, its debt
amounted to 53 percent of GDP last year, lower than in Germany
and less than the euro-region average of 79 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Spain probably will pay more than at the last auction  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Spain's deputy finance minister Jose Manuel Campa. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Spain's deputy finance minister Jose Manuel Campa. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
