-- Spanish Banks Increase ECB Borrowing by 48% in June to Record $161 Billion
-- Esteban Duarte
-- 2010-07-14T12:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/spanish-banks-boost-ecb-borrowing-48-to-record-126-billion-euros-in-june.html

          
          
             Spanish banks borrowed a record
126.3 billion euros ($161 billion) from the European Central
Bank in June as investors shun the debt-ridden nation’s lenders.  
 Spanish banks increased borrowing 48 percent from 85.6
billion euros in May, according to daily averages compiled by
the  Bank of Spain . That compares with a drop of 4 percent to
496.6 billion euros provided to lenders by the ECB in the whole
euro area.  
 The southern European country’s banks haven’t sold any
bonds publicly in the past two months amid investor concerns
about the country’s ability to cut its deficit without hurting
the economy. The yield on 10-year  Spanish government debt 
relative to benchmark German bonds has more than tripled to 200
basis points since the start of the year. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  
 “The pressure for Spanish banks will keep rising as they
can’t raise cash in the bond markets at reasonable prices,”
said  Thomas Nyegaard,  a London-based analyst at F&C Investments,
where he helps manage 4 billion euros of assets including
Spanish bank debt. “The lenders can hardly provide any new
lending under these conditions.”  
 The cost of insuring against losses on Spanish sovereign
debt rose five basis points to 213 basis points in the credit-
default swap market, according to data provider CMA. The
contracts rose as high as 274 basis points in May.  
 Budget Crisis  
 The country’s lenders are increasing their dependence on
the ECB as the European Union starts to examine banks’
resilience to losses after the debt crisis pummeled the bonds of
Spain, Greece and Portugal. Europe’s deficit woes sparked
concern about banks’ losses from sovereign debt holdings on top
of the 438 billion euros already written down since the start of
the global credit crisis in 2007.  
 Spanish Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  said in
parliament today that doubts over the health of Spanish banks
are “unfounded” and stress tests will prove the resilience of
the country’s lenders.  
 Spain, saddled with the third-highest deficit in the euro
region, pledged to provide as much as 99 billion euros through
its Fund for Ordered Bank Restructuring, known as FROB, to help
banks replenish capital. The fund has raised 9 billion euros
from the government and sold 3 billion euros of bonds so far,
according to Bank of America Corp. data.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        