-- Sudan Risks Civil War Without Free Referendum, Oil Deal, Rights Groups Say
-- Alan Boswell
-- 2010-07-14T08:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/sudan-risks-civil-war-without-free-referendum-oil-deal-rights-groups-say.html

          
          
             Northern and  Southern Sudan  risk a
return to civil war unless a plebiscite on the south’s
independence is free and the two sides agree on sharing oil
revenue, 26 aid and human rights organizations said today.  
 Southern Sudan is scheduled to hold its referendum on
independence in January, at the same time a parallel vote will
be carried out in the disputed central region of Abyei to decide
whether it will join north or south Sudan.  
 “Alarmingly, the current level of preparation is poor and
the possibility of holding two free, fair and peaceful referenda
in January 2011 is becoming more difficult as each day passes,”
according to an  e-mailed report  that was signed by groups such
as  Global Witness ,  Refugees International , and the  Cairo
Institute for Human Rights Studies .  
 North and south Sudan fought a 21-year conflict, in which
as many as two million people died, that ended with a  peace
agreement  in 2005. The accord was backed by organizations such
as the African Union, the European Union, and the Arab League
and countries including the U.S., the U.K. and Norway.  
 “It is imperative that the guarantors urgently redouble
their efforts to ensure adequate preparations for the referenda,
and help secure agreements on sensitive issues such as border
demarcation and oil sharing,” according to the report.  
 Oil fields in Southern Sudan account for most of the
nation’s output, which, at 490,000 barrels a day, is the third-
biggest in sub-Saharan Africa, according to the  BP Statistical
Review of World Energy .  
 Under the peace agreement, the two sides currently split
revenue from oil produced in the south, which is exported north
through a pipeline ending in Port Sudan on the Red Sea.  
 “An agreement needs to be reached before the referenda on
how Northern and Southern Sudan will cooperate to export oil
when current arrangements end,” said the report. “Whether an
equitable agreement can be reached is arguably the single
biggest factor that affects the prospects for peace.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alan Boswell  in Juba at  aboswell2@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        