-- Billionaire Singhs' Super Religare to Acquire Piramal's Diagnostics Unit
-- Adi Narayan
-- 2010-07-14T11:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/super-religare-agrees-to-buy-piramal-s-diagnostics-unit-for-129-million.html

          
          
             Super Religare Laboratories Ltd. ,
controlled by billionaire brothers Malvinder and Shivinder
Singh, agreed to buy  Piramal Healthcare Ltd. ’s diagnostics unit
for 6 billion rupees ($129 million) to become India’s largest
provider of laboratory services.  
 The combined entity will have about 170 laboratories
serving more than 12 million customers annually, Piramal said in
a statement today. Mumbai-based Piramal is also in talks to buy
10 percent of Super Religare and the companies expect to decide
on the purchase by tomorrow,  Gopal Vaidyanathan , director of
strategy at Super Religare, said in a telephone interview today.  
 The purchase will help increase medical-imaging services
including X-rays and ultrasounds at New Delhi-based Super
Religare, which has focused on pathology services such as blood
tests, Vaidyanathan said. India’s diagnostic services market may
expand as much as 24 percent annually from 120 billion rupees
this year, he said.  
 “This combination will go a long way in changing the
diagnostic services landscape of not just India but also the
Asia region,”  Ajay Piramal , chairman of Piramal group, said in
the statement.  
 Piramal Healthcare  fell  1.5 percent to close at 503.85
rupees in Mumbai trading. India’s benchmark Sensitive index
dropped 0.3 percent.  
 Non-Compete Clause  
 Super Religare will pay 3 billion rupees initially and the
remainder over three years, Piramal said in the statement.
Vaidyanathan said the purchase will be made in cash and
completed in about six weeks. The agreement includes a clause
that Piramal won’t enter the diagnostic-test services market for
three years, he said.  
 The unit, Piramal Diagnostic  Services Pvt ., posted a net
loss of 53.3 million rupees in the year ended March 31,
according to the company’s  annual report .  
 Piramal Diagnostic runs laboratories at some hospitals of
 Fortis Healthcare Ltd.  New Delhi-based Fortis, India’s second-
biggest hospital operator, is also controlled by the Singh
brothers.  
 The transaction announced today leaves Piramal Healthcare
with contract-manufacturing and over-the-counter drugs
businesses. In May, the company agreed to sell its generic-
medicine unit to Abbott Laboratories for $3.72 billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adi Narayan  in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        