-- Swiss Stocks Gain for Seventh Day; SGS and Lonza Lead Increase in Zurich
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-07-14T16:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/swiss-stocks-gain-for-seventh-day-sgs-and-lonza-lead-increase-in-zurich.html

          
          
             Swiss stocks rose for a seventh day,
their longest winning streak in almost five months, as gains in
 SGS SA  and  Lonza Group AG  offset a decline in  Credit Suisse
Group AG  and luxury-goods maker Cie. Financiere Richemont SA  
 SGS, the world’s biggest goods inspector, advanced 2.3
percent, while  Lonza Group AG , the world’s largest maker of drug
ingredients, gained 1.8 percent.  Novartis AG  increased 1.5
percent as BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research reiterated a
“buy” rating ahead of the company’s quarterly results. Credit
Suisse followed banking stocks lower in Europe. Richemont
declined 1.2 percent.  
 The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  gained 33.69, or 0.5
percent, to 6,332.28 in Zurich. The gauge has retreated 9.1
percent from this year’s high on April 15 amid speculation that
Europe’s debt crisis may derail the economic recovery and
concern that Chinese authorities are cooling their nation’s rate
of growth. The broader  Swiss Performance Index  rose 0.4 percent
today.  
 “Although Intel Corp. gave positive signs and spurred
optimism this morning thanks to its outlook, there is still some
caution in the market,” said  Thomas Buri , head of Swiss
equities at Vontobel Asset Management, which manages 75 billion
francs ($71 billion) in Zurich. He said he expects the Swiss
reporting season to be positive, above all for industrial
companies.  
 Topped Estimates  
 Intel , the world’s biggest chipmaker, reported record
second-quarter sales and topped analysts’ estimates with its
forecast for this period.  
 Third-quarter sales will be $11.6 billion, plus or minus
$400 million, the Santa Clara, California-based company said
late yesterday. Analysts had estimated sales of $10.9 billion on
average, according to a Bloomberg survey.  
 Intel lifted its forecast for gross margin -- the
percentage of sales remaining after deducting production costs -
- to 66 percent for the year, from a previous prediction of 64
percent. For the current period, the company will generate a
margin of 67 percent, the company said.  
 SGS advanced 2.3 percent to 1,585 francs. The company will
release its results tomorrow.  
 Novartis gained 1.5 percent to 53.75 francs. BofA Merrill
Lynch reiterated a “buy” recommendation on the pharmaceutical
company “due to Novartis’s strong pipeline, attractive
diversified revenue streams and undemanding valuation.”
Novartis is also scheduled to publish results tomorrow.  
 Lonza rose 1.8 percent to 73.2 francs.  Adecco SA , the
world’s biggest supplier of temporary workers, gained 1.8
percent to 54.05 francs.  
 Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, retreated
0.6 percent to 45.42 euros. The Stoxx 600 Banks index ended a
six-day gain.  
 Richemont  declined 1.2 percent to 39.81 francs. The world’s
biggest jewelry maker said its first-quarter sales continued the
“trend” seen in the period before Christmas, without
elaborating. The company commented today in its annual report,
repeating a statement it made with its full-year results.  
 Kuoni Reisen Holding AG  climbed 5.3 percent to 331.5 francs
as Chief Executive Officer  Peter Rothwell  told Handelszeitung
that the largest Swiss travel company is having a “much
stronger” July after the first half was “more demanding” than
the company expected.  
 Separately, UBS AG lifted its recommendation on the company
to “buy” from “neutral.”  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        