-- U.K. Unemployment Falls as Economy Starts to Pick Up Following Recession
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-07-14T08:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/u-k-unemployment-falls-as-jobless-claims-reach-least-in-a-year.html

          
          
             U.K.  unemployment  fell and the
number of jobless benefit claimants dropped to the lowest in a
year, a sign the economy is picking up in the aftermath of the
recession.  
 Unemployment measured by International Labour Organization
methods was 2.47 million in the quarter through May, declining
for the first time since January, the Office for National
Statistics said today in London. The number of people claiming
 jobless benefits  in June fell by 20,800. The median forecast of
22 economists was for a drop of 20,000.  
 Bank of England surveys show the labor market has
stabilized and demand in the private sector may be picking up,
policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said yesterday. His vote last month
for an interest-rate increase to curb  inflation  was blocked by
the majority of officials, who are trying to aid the economy
during the deepest public spending cuts in half a century.  
 “The deterioration in the labor market for now seems to
have come to an end,” said  David Tinsley , an economist at
National Australia Bank in London and a former central bank
official. “It may pick up again next year. It’s hard to see how
a steady pace of improvement will be maintained as public-sector
job losses start to bite.”  
 The pound rose 0.2 percent against the dollar after the
report and traded at $1.5254 as of 9:38 a.m. in London. The
yield on the benchmark two-year government bond rose 3 basis
points today to 0.783 percent.  
 Benefit Claims  
 The number of people claiming jobless benefits dropped last
month to 1.46 million, the statistics office said. The ILO
unemployment rate of 7.8 percent in the quarter through May was
lower than the median forecast of 7.9 percent in a Bloomberg
News survey of 20 economists.  
 The U.K.’s unemployment rate compares with 10 percent in
the euro region, 9.5 percent in the U.S. and 5.2 percent in
Japan, the report showed.  
 Michael Page International Plc , the U.K.’s second largest
recruitment company, said on July 9 that second-quarter profit
rose 33 percent as business confidence levels improved. “In the
U.K., continental Europe and North America we have experienced
job flow improvements in virtually all markets,”  Steve Ingham ,
the company’s chief executive officer, said in a statement.  
 The proportion of the working population in part-time
employment rose to 27 percent in the quarter through May, the
highest since records began in 1992, the statistics office said.  
 Budget Cuts  
 The U.K. has not been hit “that badly” by unemployment,
according to  Diageo Plc , the maker of Smirnoff vodka and
Guinness Stout. “I’m afraid it will as the measures that the
government has recently committed to in terms of reducing the
deficit start to take effect,”  Andrew Morgan , president of
European operations, said July 9 at a conference in Portugal.  
 The Office for Budget Responsibility predicts Britain will
lose 490,000 public-sector jobs by April 2015, 160,000 of them
as a result of cuts announced in Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne ’s June 22 budget, according to new data released
by the office yesterday. Payroll-cost restrictions spared the
loss of a further 100,000 jobs, the forecast showed.  
 The prospect of a budget squeeze helped push Nationwide
Building Society’s measure of consumer confidence down in June
to the lowest in a year, according to the customer-owned
lender’s report today. More than half of respondents said there
will be not many or few jobs available in six months’ time, the
survey of 1,000 people from May 24 to June 20 showed.  
 Sentance’s View  
 Sentance was more positive on the prospects for the labor
market. “Business surveys and the labor market data have been
suggesting a return to growth since the second half of last
year,” he said in a speech yesterday. “Evidence from the Bank
of England’s agents and recent employment surveys is that the
labor market in the U.K. has stabilized and that labor demand in
the private sector may have already started to pick up.”  
 Bank of England officials have split on the dangers of
inflation, which stayed above the government’s 3 percent limit
in June. Sentance made the first push to raise interest rates in
almost two years last month to control consumer prices, while
his colleagues opted to keep up emergency stimulus to aid the
economic recovery.  
 Policy makers noted last month that pay growth had picked
up, though much of that reflected a temporary effect from
bonuses. Average earnings in the three months through May,
including bonuses, rose 2.7 percent from a year earlier,
compared with a 4.1 percent gain in the quarter through April,
the statistics office said. Excluding bonuses, it increased an
annual 1.8 percent.  
 In a separate report, the statistics office said that its
measure of public sector pay might keep showing increases even
as the government freezes wages to curb the budget deficit.  
 “The pay freeze in the public sector will not necessarily
lead to a sharp and early fall in the public sector” pay growth
rate, statistics official Derek Bird wrote in an article. “On
the contrary, there are a number of factors that could lead to
the growth rate increasing.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A job seeker searches for job vacancies using an automated monitor at a job centre in Hertford, U.K. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
