-- U.K. Plan to Return $45.7 Million to Bribery Victims May Fuel Corruption
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-07-15T14:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/u-k-plan-to-return-cash-to-tanzania-bribery-victims-may-fuel-corruption.html

          
          
             U.K. prosecutors plan to send as
much as 30 million pounds ($45.7 million) from a  BAE Systems Plc 
bribery-probe settlement to Tanzania, the country where
officials took the payoffs, in an approach their U.S.
counterparts reject.  
 Europe’s biggest defense contractor reached a deal this
year with the U.K. Serious Fraud Office to end a five-year probe
into whether it enticed Tanzanian officials to buy a radar
system with payments. Under the proposed settlement, which needs
a court’s approval, the SFO will ask that most of the 30 million
pounds BAE is paying go to Tanzania as the agency’s director,
 Richard Alderman , pushes to return money to corruption victims.  
 The Tanzanian payouts would be the highest reparations
sought by the SFO in three corporate-bribery cases it has
pursued. The payments have been met with skepticism from lawyers
and bribery watchdogs who say there is no way to ensure how the
money will be used, or determine who the victims are.  
 “There is a grave danger that you’re returning money to
the very people that took bribes in the first place,” said  Mark Mendelsohn , the former chief of the fraud division at the U.S.
Department of Justice. “The last thing one wants to do is fuel
corruption in the name of fighting it.”  
 Indentifying victims in corruption cases can be
challenging, he said.  
 Governments, Shareholders  
 “Is it the people of the country whose government took
payments? Often it is,” said Mendelsohn, now a partner at  Paul
Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP  in Washington. “Are the
victims the shareholders of the bribe-paying company? Maybe,
maybe not.”  
 The SFO, which prosecutes complex fraud and corruption,
will become part of the U.K. coalition government’s planned
economic crime agency in two years. Alderman, who may retire
after the transfer is complete, has said compensating victims is
a priority for the agency, which is scheduled to publish its
annual report next week.  
 “Some of our cases involve British companies and
artificially overpriced contracts for business overseas,”
Alderman said. Such contracts “in a developing country could
have a negative impact on infrastructure development, education
or humanitarian projects” hurting “ ordinary people .”  
 Since he joined the SFO as director in April 2008, Alderman
has encouraged companies to self-report bribery in exchange for
reduced penalties, which is how similar cases under the U.S.
 Foreign Corrupt Practices Act  are handled.  
 Charitable Donation  
 In FCPA cases, the criminal penalties assessed are returned
to the U.S. Treasury by law.  
 “Under the agreement with the Serious Fraud Office, the
company will plead guilty to one charge of breach of duty to
keep accounting records in relation to payments made to a former
marketing adviser in Tanzania,” BAE spokeswoman  Lindsay Walls 
said in an e-mailed statement.  
 BAE Chairman  Dick Olver  has said the final fine assessed by
a U.K. court is likely to be lower than the 30 million pounds
agreed on, and the company will make up the difference in the
form of a charitable donation to Tanzania. The investigation
surrounding the Tanzania case dates back to a contract
originally won in 1997.  
 Salva Rweyemamu , spokesman for Tanzanian President  Jakaya Kikwete , declined to comment.  
 Former Attorney General  
 Tanzania said in 2008 that  Andrew Chenge , attorney general
at the time the radar contract was negotiated with BAE, was
under investigation over his role in the deal and would step
down as infrastructure development minister.  
 The agreement reached in February will be presented to a
London court this fall. A U.K. court rejected efforts by anti-
arms groups Corner House and the Campaign Against Arms Trade to
block the deal. The groups said the penalty was too small.  
 “These entities are very good at deterring and punishing
crime, I suspect they are much less good at determining the
sensitivities around large payments,” said  Alexandra Wrage ,
president of nonprofit anti-bribery group Trace International,
referring to the SFO and the Justice Department.  
 The U.S., the world’s top prosecutor of bribery, has been
criticized for making hundreds of millions of dollars from
criminal penalties in such cases. BAE is paying $400 million in
fines to the U.S. Treasury to resolve bribery allegations and
pleaded guilty in federal court in March to making false
statements and breaching U.S. laws on weapons exporting.  
 The SFO is seeking to set itself apart from the U.S. by
returning money, Wrage said.  
 Shipping Money Back  
 “There’s a question over whether anti-bribery should be a
profit center,” Wrage said. “But the alternative -- shipping
money back to the bribe-takers -- is worse.”  
 There are more victims than just the citizens of the
country involved, such as shareholders who lost value after a
corruption scandal and competitors who lost contracts to bribe-
paying companies, she said.  
 Alderman said in cases where reparations can be paid,
making sure the money reaches victims “will need to be arranged
on a case-by-case basis.”  
 Returning the money has proven difficult for the SFO as two
countries have refused to accept it in another case.  
 In the first overseas corruption case the SFO prosecuted,
closely held U.K. bridge builder Mabey & Johnson Ltd. agreed in
2009 to offer reparations of 658,000 pounds to Ghana and 139,000
pounds to Jamaica. Neither has taken the funds.  
 “They may not want to acknowledge that their officials
were bribed,” Mendelsohn said of the countries’ refusal to
collect. “Accepting the money may be seen as an admission of
guilt, and there may be concern that it puts further pressure on
the country to investigate and prosecute their own officials.”  
 If the escrowed money isn’t accepted within six years, it
will be transferred to the SFO, said  Stephen Flaherty , a lawyer
at  Herbert Smith LLP , who advised Mabey & Johnson.  
 In a case this year, a judge denied the SFO’s request that
chemicals maker  Innospec Inc.  pay $5 million to the United
Nations Development Fund for Iraq.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Richard Alderman, director of the Serious Fraud Office. Photographer: Alex Griffiths via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
