-- Most U.S. Stocks Decline on Fed's Reduced Forecast for Growth
-- Elizabeth Stanton
-- 2010-07-14T21:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-after-intel-tops-forecasts-nvidia-gains.html

          
          
             Most U.S. stocks fell, halting a
six-day rally, as a drop in retail sales and the Federal
Reserve’s assessment that the economic outlook has “softened”
overshadowed Intel Corp.’s forecast for record profit.  
 Home Depot Inc.,  American Express Co.  and Alcoa Inc.
declined the most in the Dow Jones Industrial Average as minutes
from the Fed’s last meeting showed policy makers saw no need to
boost economic stimulus even as they trimmed growth forecasts.
Intel, the largest chipmaker, rose 1.7 percent after reporting
record second-quarter sales. Stocks pared losses in the final
minutes of trading.  
 About four stocks declined for every three that advanced on
U.S. exchanges. The  S&P 500 , which had rallied 7 percent over
the previous six sessions, slipped less than 0.1 percent to
1,095.17 as of 4 p.m. in New York. The Dow rose 3.7 points, or
less than 0.1 percent, to 10,366.72. Aided by Intel, the Nasdaq
Composite Index rose 0.4 percent to 2,249.84.  
 “It corroborates what we’ve been seeing in the economic
data points over the past month,”  John Massey , a money manager
at SunAmerica Asset Management Corp. in Jersey City, New Jersey,
said of the Fed minutes. “The market’s gone up six days in a
row and is looking for an excuse to give up some of the gains.”
SunAmerica manages $38 billion.  
 The S&P 500 has rebounded 7.1 percent from a 10-month low
on July 2, paring its drop for the year to 1.8 percent, amid
optimism that second-quarter earnings will overshadow
disappointing home sales, manufacturing and jobs data. Analysts
predict earnings in the S&P 500 grew 34 percent last quarter,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 S&P 500 Performance  
 The  S&P 500  plunged 16 percent between April 23 and July 2,
reaching its lowest valuation relative to earnings in a year, on
concern a sovereign-debt crisis in Europe is spreading and
economic growth in China and the U.S. is slowing. The benchmark
gauge closed up 1.5 percent yesterday, a sixth day of gains and
the longest winning streak since April 15. It hasn’t advanced
for seven straight days since October 2006.  
 Slowing inflation, constrained household spending and
contracting credit prompted Fed policy makers last month to
restate a pledge to keep the benchmark lending rate at around
zero for “an extended period,” the Fed’s statement showed.  
 “The economic outlook had softened somewhat and a number of
members saw the risks to the outlook as having shifted to the
downside,” minutes released today in Washington said. “The
changes to the outlook were viewed as relatively modest and as
not warranting policy accommodation beyond that already in
place.”  
 AmEx, Home Depot  
 Home Depot, the largest U.S. home-improvement retailer,
declined 1.3 percent to $28.28. American Express, the biggest
U.S. credit-card issuer by purchases, fell 1.1 percent to
$43.70. Aluminum producer Alcoa Inc. dropped 0.8 percent to
$10.91. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is scheduled to report second-
quarter results tomorrow before the market opens.  
 Financial stocks were the biggest drag on the S&P 500 of 10
industry groups, led by banks.  Zions Bancorporation , Regions
Financial Corp. and SunTrust Banks Inc. fell more than 2.7
percent.  Whitney Holding Corp.  said provisions for second-
quarter credit losses will be as high as $62 million because of
weakness in the Florida real estate market. Whitney Holding slid
18 percent to $8.18.  
 Retail Sales  
 Futures dropped after the retail sales report. Purchases
decreased 0.5 percent, more than expected, following a 1.1
percent May drop, the Commerce Department said. Excluding auto
dealers, demand fell 0.1 percent, matching the median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Walt Disney Co., the world’s largest media company,
declined 0.6 percent to $34.24. Target, the second-biggest U.S.
discount retailer, fell 0.5 percent to $49.65.
     Intel  gained 1.7 percent to $21.36. The company, whose
processors run more than 80 percent of the world’s personal
computers, reported record second-quarter sales and topped
analysts’ estimates with its forecast for the current period,
allaying concern that a rebound in technology spending is losing
steam.  
 “Intel has reach over both consumer and investment
spending, and also has reach throughout the world,” said
 William Greiner , president and chief investment officer of Scout
Investment Advisors in Kansas City, which manages $7.5 billion.
Its results show that “businesses in general are making the
leap toward investment spending.”  
 Nvidia Rises  
 Nvidia , the second-largest maker of graphics chips, rose 1
percent to $11.03.  
 Expeditors International of Washington Inc.  rose 6.7
percent to $39.64 for the biggest gain in the S&P 500. The
manager of cargo ships said second-quarter profit was at least
38 cents a share, topping the 31-cent average analyst estimate.  
 Lincoln National Corp. fell the most in the S&P 500,
dropping 5.7 percent to $24.04. The insurer that paid back a
$950 million U.S. rescue was downgraded at Credit Suisse Group
AG on the risk of impairment charges.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Retail sales dropped. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Michael Vogelzang, chief investment officer at Boston Advisors LLC, talks about second-quarter U.S. corporate earnings and the outlook for stocks.
     Vogelzang also discusses the U.S. economy and his investment strategy with Carol Massar, Julie Hyman, and Adam Johnson on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." Nicholas Bloom, an economics professor at Stanford University, also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Vikas Pershad, chief executive officer at Chicago-based hedge fund Veda Investments LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his investment strategy for Chinese and Indian stocks.
     Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. may overtake local rival Bank of China Ltd. on its trading debut today to become the world’s seventh-largest lender by market value, according to analysts and investors. Pershad also discusses the outlook for U.S. and European stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Nicholas Bloom, a professor of economics at Stanford University, talks with Bloomberg’s Julie Hyman about the outlook for U.S. stocks and the global economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Sales at U.S. retailers fell 0.5 percent in June, more than expected and for a second straight month, indicating the pace of economic recovery moderated heading into the second half of 2010. Bloomberg's Michael McKee and Betty Liu report. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Intel Corp. Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li from Santa Clara, California, about the outlook for sales.
     Intel, the world's biggest chipmaker, reported record second-quarter sales and topped analysts' estimates with its forecast for this period, allaying concern that a rebound in technology spending is losing steam. Smith also discusses the company's investments in China. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Peter Andersen, portfolio manager at Congress Asset Management Co., talks about his investment strategy.
     Andersen also discusses prospects for Motorola Inc. He speaks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
