-- U.S. Insurers Can Endure More Commercial-Property Declines, Barclays Says
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-07-14T20:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/u-s-insurers-can-endure-more-commercial-property-declines-barclays-says.html

          
          
             U.S. life insurers, a group led by
 MetLife Inc. , are able to withstand further commercial-property
price declines because of the collateral cushions on mortgages
written by most of the industry, Barclays Plc said.  
 Barclays projects real estate price declines of an
additional 25 percent and “has actually reached an upbeat
conclusion as far as the major life insurers are concerned,”
analyst  Eric Berg  said in a research note today. U.S. commercial
property values in April were  down 41 percent  from their October
2007 peak, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  
 Life insurers lend to owners of apartment buildings, office
towers and shopping malls as part of their investment strategy.
New York-based MetLife had about $35 billion in commercial
mortgages at the end of the first quarter. For the same period,
 Prudential Financial Inc. , the second-biggest U.S. life insurer,
said it had about $30 billion of commercial mortgages and other
loans. The two insurers said this year that property price
declines may have ended.  
 If conditions in the “mortgage-lending market will worsen
from here, the impact on all of the life insurers just won’t be
that substantial,” said Berg, who’s based in New York.  
 Mortgage portfolios at  Genworth Financial Inc. , Lincoln
National Corp. and  Ameriprise Financial Inc.  were the best
positioned in the industry, according to the Barclays study.
 Principal Financial Inc.  and  StanCorp Financial Group Inc.  had
the greatest risk of losses and would suffer “material hits”
to their shareholders equity if commercial property prices fall
by a quarter, Barclays said.  
 Real Estate Losses  
 U.S. life insurers are facing an increase in losses on
commercial mortgage loans after posting $1.5 billion of losses
last year, Fitch Ratings said in a June 21 report. The firms may
take an additional $4 billion to $5 billion of losses this year
and next, Fitch said.  
 Principal, led by Chief Executive Officer  Larry Zimpleman ,
had its credit rating  downgraded  by Standard & Poor’s in May on
the prospect of mortgage losses. The “risk profile” of the
loan portfolio at the Des Moines, Iowa-based insurer is higher
than its peers, S&P said in a statement.  
 Principal braced for an increase in commercial-property
defaults by more than doubling its provision against mortgage
losses last year. Zimpleman said in an April interview that
commercial property prices were starting to rise after the two-
and-a-half year slide attracted investors.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        