-- Ugandan Authorities Probe Suspected Al-Shabaab Member Over Links to Blasts
-- Fred Ojambo
-- 2010-07-14T16:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/ugandan-authorities-probe-suspected-al-shabaab-member-over-links-to-blasts.html

          
          
             Ugandan officials are investigating
whether a suspected member of an Islamist militia arrested in
neighboring Kenya last week had anything to do with the July 11
bomb blasts in Uganda in which 74 people died.  
 The suspect was handed over to Ugandan authorities
yesterday, Fred Opolot, a government spokesman, told reporters
today in the capital, Kampala. The man is being questioned about
the attack after Somalia’s rebel al-Shabaab movement claimed
responsibility for the explosions.  
 “Investigators want to get information about happened and
the general activities of al-Shabaab,” Opolot said.  
 Two explosions ripped through separate venues in Kampala as
patrons watched the soccer World Cup final. Al-Shabaab said it
targeted Uganda because the nation contributed troops to an
African Union-led peacekeeping force in Somalia. The rebel
group, which the U.S. has  designated  as a terrorist organization
with links to al-Qaeda, has been trying to oust Somalia’s
Western-backed government since 2007.  
 Ugandan police have arrested an unspecified number of
unidentified suspects in connection with the attacks, Kale
Kayihura, the inspector general of police, told reporters
yesterday. He didn’t provide further information.  
 ‘Fundamentalist’ Links  
 Uganda’s security agencies are also probing possible links
between al-Shabaab and the rebel Allied Democratic Forces,
Opolot said.  
 The ADF is made up of Ugandan opposition forces and
supported by the government of Sudan, according to the website
of  GlobalSecurity.org , an Alexandria, Virginia-based research
company. The group, whose members include “fundamentalist”
Tabliq Muslim rebels and parts of the renegade National Army for
the Liberation of Uganda, is based in the Ruwenzori Mountains of
western Uganda, it said.  
 The ADF began an insurgency in Uganda in 1996 and was
responsible for bomb blasts in Kampala in 1997 and 1998,
according to the Ugandan national army.  
 Ugandan police today revised down the number of people
killed in this week’s attack from 76 people after it found some
victims had been counted twice, Moses Byaruhanga, a police
doctor, told reporters today. Dozens of people were injured in
the explosions.  
 The East African nation’s Tourism Board is “frantically”
trying to calm the fears of potential visitors to Uganda about
their safety after some people canceled visits, Edwin Muzahura,
the board’s spokesman, said today.  
 “We are trying to assure people that Uganda is safe,” he
said. “There is panic, but we want to arrest the situation very
fast and assure tourists that they are safe.”  
 The blasts are unlikely to slow economic growth in the
country,  Bank of Uganda  Deputy Governor  Louis Kasekende  said in
an interview today.  
 Uganda, a country about the size of Oregon with a
population of more than 30 million people and an economy of
$16.4 billion, is Africa’s biggest exporter of robusta coffee.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fred Ojambo  in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        