-- Uganda Bomb Attacks Raise Concern of Increasing Terror Links With al-Qaeda
-- Bill Varner
-- 2010-07-14T01:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/uganda-bomb-attacks-raise-concern-of-increasing-terror-links-with-al-qaeda.html

          
          
             Bombings in Uganda by the Somali
militia al-Shabaab that killed at least 74 people have raised
U.S. government concerns about the group’s growing ties with al-
Qaeda, an Obama administration official said today.  
 Al-Shabaab, which the U.S. has  designated  as a terrorist
organization, claimed responsibility for the July 11 attacks in
Uganda’s capital, Kampala. Al-Shabaab said it targeted Uganda
because the nation contributed troops to an African Union-led
peacekeeping force in Somalia, and the group threatened a
similar attack on Burundi unless its troops are withdrawn.  
 The Obama administration has expressed support to
governments throughout the region and is sending a Federal
Bureau of Investigation team to Uganda to aid the probe of the
attack, according to the official, who spoke on condition of not
being identified. The New York City Police Department also is
sending investigators.  
 In an interview with the South African Broadcasting
Company, President  Barack Obama  called the attacks “tragic”
events, proving that the terrorist groups involved “do not
regard African life as valuable in and of itself.”  
 “We need to make sure that we are doing everything we can
to support those who want to build, as opposed to want to
destroy,” Obama said in the interview.  
 Terrorist Overlap  
 The Obama administration is concerned about an overlap
among leaders of al-Shabaab and al-Qaeda branches in East Africa
and the Arabian Peninsula, the official said. Al-Qaeda is
recruiting young Somalis and coordinating activities with al-
Shabaab that include movement of contraband and fundraising,
according to the official.  
 Islamist militias including al-Shabaab and Hisb-ul-Islam
have been battling Somalia’s government since 2007 and now
control most of southern and central Somalia, as well as parts
of Mogadishu.  
 Both groups have said they want to impose Islamic sharia
law on the Horn of Africa nation, which hasn’t had a functioning
central administration since the ouster of former dictator
 Mohamed Siad Barre  in 1991.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        