-- Ukraine to Issue $2 Billion in VAT Bonds Next Month, Expects IMF Financing
-- Halia Pavliva
-- 2010-07-15T09:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/ukraine-to-issue-2-billion-in-vat-bonds-next-month-expects-imf-financing.html

          
          
             Ukraine will issue at least $2
billion in so-called value-added tax bonds in one installment
next month to meet a requirement for an  International Monetary
Fund  loan, said Deputy Prime Minister  Serhiy Tigipko .  
 “We will restructure the debt accumulated in 2009 and,
possibly, in the first quarter of 2010, by issuing VAT bonds,”
Tigipko said in an interview at his Kiev office yesterday. “The
bonds will be out practically next week after the IMF board’s
decision and there will be one tranche” of the securities
issued, he said.  
 The government is issuing the bonds to exporters instead of
VAT payments that Ukraine owes them. Exporters may then sell the
bonds to investors. The IMF has said the government needs to
reimburse exporters before it will release funds to the country.  
 The IMF, based in Washington, agreed with Ukraine on a new
$14.9 billion loan on July 3 after a mission from the lender
approved economic policies aimed at narrowing the deficit. The
IMF will decide whether to give final approval to the loan at
its July 28 board meeting, Tigipko said.  
 The government has agreed to use VAT bonds to repay 16.7
billion hryvnia ($2.2 billion) owed to exporters for value-added
taxes that were not repaid to them in 2009. It’s considering
repaying value-added taxes owed to exporters from the first
quarter of this year in the same way, Tigipko said. The rest of
the taxes owed would be repaid in cash, he said.  
 Ukraine’s budget deficit is forecast to drop to 3.5 percent
of gross domestic product next year from 4.9 percent this year,
Tigipko said. Annual inflation will probably slow to less than 9
percent in December, he said.  
 Budget Deficit  
 To cover the budget deficit, forecast to be about 50
billion hryvnia this year, the government expects to use about
$800 million in loans from the World Bank and about 610 million
euros ($777 million) from the European Union, as well as the IMF
loan, which would mainly go to replenish the central bank’s
reserves, Tigipko said.  
 Ukraine has agreed to intensify selling state companies to
private investors and expects to generate about $1 billion in
budget revenue this year from selling some of its biggest state-
owned companies, including VAT Ukrtelecom, the country’s major
land line telephone services provider, Tigipko said.  
 The country seeks to sell regional energy distributors from
early 2011 with participation of international advisers, Tigipko
said adding that thermal generators will also be offered for
sale.  
 The nation plans to pay in full and on time all of its
sovereign debts in 2010 and 2011, and the government prefers to
borrow abroad rather than locally, he said.  
 “Once the IMF loan is approved, we will be looking at
markets, and whether we’ll borrow will depend on market
conditions,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Halia Pavliva  in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        