-- Ukraine Races to Prepare for Euro 2012 Tournament as World Cup Concludes
-- Kateryna Choursina
-- 2010-07-14T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/ukraine-races-to-prepare-for-euro-2012-tournament-as-world-cup-concludes.html

          
          
             Ukraine, co-host to the Euro 2012
soccer championship, is struggling to avoid the pitfalls that
plagued South Africa when the World Cup host battled ballooning
costs and tight deadlines.  
 The former Soviet state has less than two years to finish
stadiums in Lviv and Kiev, renovate airports and railway
stations, and build hotels that were promised when it won the
joint  bid  with Poland. The $3.3 billion project corresponds with
a recession that has drained the state budget.  
 “We need to work, work and work non-stop,” said  Hryhoriy 
 Surkis , president of Ukraine’s Football Federation, in a July 5
interview in Kiev. “The biggest problem for us is personnel.
Building a facility is not a problem, the question is who will
manage it?”  
 The Euro championship is the second-biggest football event
after the World Cup, drawing as many as 1.2 million fans from
across the continent and as many as 150 million television
viewers per game, according to the Union of European Football
Associations, or UEFA. The final game will be played in Kiev,
Ukraine’s capital, on July 1, 2012, after 16 nations  compete 
over more than three weeks.  
 Ukraine’s government was criticized as recently as March by
UEFA President  Michel Platini  for failing to make substantial
progress on the stadium in Lviv. UEFA now says the country,
along with Poland, will probably be  ready .  
 ‘Generally Satisfied’  
 “UEFA is generally satisfied with the status of
preparations in the host countries, even though a few delays
have been experienced in the development of some infrastructure,
notably due to the past political instability in Ukraine and the
very harsh climatic conditions during the last winter,” UEFA
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  
 Preparing for an event of this scale is unprecedented in
Ukraine, a country where living standards are less than half the
level of Switzerland and Austria, according to a January 2010
study  published  by International Living. Switzerland and Austria
hosted the Euro 2008 championship.  
 South Africa estimated it would need 2.3 billion rand
($303.7 million) in 2004 to build five stadiums and renovate
five others for the World Cup. The price tag ballooned to more
than 16 billion rand by the time the tournament was staged.
Human rights organizations said the money and expertise could
have been put to better use providing homes to the 12 million
South Africans that lack proper shelter.  
 The World Bank has estimated the cup, which has been held
every four years since 1960, will help boost economic growth in
Poland and Ukraine because of jobs created for construction of
facilities and investment by the government. Euro 2008 generated
about 1.3 billion euros ($1.6 billion) from broadcasting,
ticketing and corporate hospitality, according to UEFA.  
 ‘Zero’ Doubts  
 Ukrainian authorities have “zero” doubts the facilities
will be prepared in time, said Deputy Prime Minister  Borys Kolesnikov  in a July 8 interview at his office in Kiev. UEFA
officials also denied a media report on July 12 that UEFA could
move the entire cup to Poland if Ukraine isn’t ready.  
 “There is no reason for UEFA to look into alternatives,
the so-called ‘Plan B,’ if this plan is respected and
delivered,” UEFA said. “Should the plan not be respected, then
UEFA would of course have to look into alternatives for the
staging of Euro 2012. Alternatives that could be considered in
the first place are a reduction in the number of host cities.”  
 Ukraine has “wasted time,” said  Martin Raiser , the World
Bank’s director for Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova, on July 1. The
government should use the tournament to generate and attract
investment, he said.  
 Money Woes  
 Completing construction in Ukraine has been hurt by a lack
of money. The state budget deficit swelled to 11.5 percent of
gross domestic product in 2009 from 1.32 percent the previous
year. The economy contracted 15.1 percent last year, the
steepest drop since 1994.  
 Kolesnykov said the country will find funds for Euro 2012.
Spending for new stadiums in Ukraine will cost “no more” than
$700 million, he said. Airport runways in Donetsk, Lviv and
Kharkiv will cost about $500 million, and new terminals in
Donetsk, Kiev and Lviv airports will be another $450 million to
$500 million, Kolesnikov said. Terminal ramps will cost $200
million to $250 million.  
 Ukraine may issue a Eurobond later this year or sell other
debt to cover the costs, Kolesnikov said.  
 “We are worried solely about the servicing and management
of the facilities,” Kolesnikov said. “We need people who have
technical education and at the same time they need to know
languages. South Africa, like us, had never hosted a top
championship.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net 
 Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Workers at the construction site of a football stadium for the Euro 2012 in the western Ukrainian city of Lviv. Photographer: Yuriy Dyachyshyn/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
