-- Ukraine Sets Higher Gas Price for Households to Avert Losses at Naftogaz
-- Kateryna Choursina
-- 2010-07-14T14:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/ukraine-sets-higher-gas-price-for-households-to-avert-losses-at-naftogaz.html

          
          
             Ukraine’s government raised the
prices utilities and households pay for natural gas to qualify
for an  International Monetary Fund  loan and to reduce losses at
state-run energy company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy.  
 The country “cannot make it without increases in the
rates” households pay, Deputy Prime Minister  Serhiy Tigipko 
told reporters today before the weekly government meeting in
Kiev. The poor will be compensated for the increases, he said.  
 Naftogaz will have a deficit of 10 billion hryvnia ($1.27
billion) this year, compared with 30 billion hryvnia in 2009,
Tigipko said. “We cannot leave Naftogaz loss making,” he said.  
 Ukraine promised to raise its utility tariffs and prices
paid by households to unblock for a new $14.9 billion loan
program with the IMF. The nation’s National Commission for
Energy Regulation decided yesterday to double from Aug. 1 the
price households pay for gas, according to its  website . Utility
companies will pay 1,309.2 hryvnia per 1,000 cubic meters
compared with 873 hryvnia as set in late 2008.  
 Ukraine reached an agreement with the fund on July 3 for
the loan after an IMF mission approved economic policies aimed
at narrowing the budget deficit. The lender’s Executive Board
will make a final decision by late July following “approval of
legislative changes relating to the budget and financial
sector,” the IMF said then.  
 Loan Decision  
 Ukraine’s lawmakers also adopted laws including
strengthening central bank independence last week to meet the
lender’s requirements.  
 The IMF’s Executive Board will decide on the loan on July
28, Tigipko said today in remarks broadcast by Ukrainian TV.
There is no official announcement yet on the IMF’s  website .  
 “Social protection” will follow the gas rate increase,
which will “gradually bring prices close to the real cost,”
Azarov said.  
 The government will compensate families if their utility
bills are in excess of 15 percent of family income, if there is
a working family member, and 10 percent for families without
working members, Azarov said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        