-- Lula Real Policy Makes Brazil Borrow Local Even as Dollar-Debt Yields Fall
-- Ye Xie
-- 2010-07-14T22:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/lula-real-policy-makes-brazil-borrow-local-even-as-dollar-debt-yields-fall.html

          
          
             Brazil’s policy of limiting gains in
the real is preventing the government from taking advantage of
the cheapest international  borrowing costs  relative to domestic
rates in 16 months.  
 While  Brazilian companies  have sold a record $16 billion of
bonds in overseas markets this year, the government has held one
international issue, raising $788 million in an April offering
of notes due 2021 that now yield 4.61 percent. Its real-
denominated bonds due 2021 yield 12.26 percent today, or 765
basis points more than the dollar securities.  
 Policy makers are avoiding international bonds because
 foreign reserves  have risen 26 percent since March 2009 to a
record $255 billion as the central bank purchased dollars every
day to prevent the real’s gains from disrupting exports,
according to RBS Securities Inc. The real, down 1 percent this
year, has appreciated 6.9 percent since May 20 and has
strengthened more than any other currency against the dollar
over the past six years.  
 “Brazil constantly intervenes to stem the pace of the
currency appreciation,”  Siobhan Morden , a debt strategist with
RBS, said in a telephone interview from Stamford, Connecticut.
“There are so many inflows. Why would the Treasury want to add
to the problem and bring in more dollars?”  
 The  difference  between the government’s average dollar bond
yield and the Brazilian  overnight interbank target , the
benchmark for 34 percent of local Treasury debt, climbed to 476
basis points, or 4.76 percentage points,  the biggest  since March
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and JPMorgan Chase
& Co.  
 Two Benchmarks  
 “Tactically when rates are at this level, it would make
more sense for them to borrow abroad, but they have other long-
term objectives,” said  Pablo Cisilino , who helps manage $14
billion in emerging-market debt, including Brazilian bonds, at
Stone Harbor Investment Partners in New York.  
 In addition to stemming dollar inflows, the government
wants to hold down its foreign debt and develop the local bond
market, Cisilino said. The government, which is rated the lowest
investment-grade ranking at Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s
Investors Service, had less than $60 billion of dollar debt as
of April, down from about $75 billion in 2001, according to the
Treasury.  
 Jose Franco Morais , public debt operations coordinator at
the Treasury, said the government’s international bond strategy
is to maintain liquid  10- and 30-year bonds  that serve as
benchmarks for corporate debt sales.  
 “The Treasury’s external financing needs are a lot smaller
than in the past,” Morais said in a telephone interview from
Brasilia yesterday.  
 Gol Sale  
 Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA , Brazil’s largest
airline, sold $300 million of 10-year bonds to yield 9.5 percent
yesterday, the third corporate international offering in the
past three days.  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA , Brazil’s third-
biggest steelmaker, sold $1 billion of 10-year bonds today.  
 The gap between the average  Brazilian corporate  dollar bond
yield and the local overnight rate reached a 16-month high of
388 basis points on June 21, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and JPMorgan. It was at 383 basis points today.  
 The government may sell debt abroad in coming weeks,
Treasury Secretary  Arno Augustin  told reporters in Brasilia on
June 29.  Paulo Valle , the deputy treasury secretary, said in a
June 21 interview that the government is considering issuing
more of its dollar bonds due in 2021 and 2041.  
 The difference in Brazilian corporate and government bond
issuance this year is the biggest since Bloomberg began tracking
the data in 1999.  
 Default Swaps  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. securities rose 9 basis points to 221,
according to JPMorgan. The so-called spread has tumbled 27 basis
points this month.  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose three basis points
to 124, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Yields on Brazil’s overnight interest-rate futures contract
due in January fell five basis points to 11.21 percent. The
central bank has raised the benchmark overnight rate to 10.25
percent from a record low of 8.75 percent in April to cool the
fastest economic expansion in 15 years.  
 The real weakened 0.3 percent to 1.7625 per dollar by 5:22
p.m. in New York.  
 ‘Sporadic Issuer’  
 Foreign reserves have jumped more than six-fold from $38
billion when President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  took office in
2003, bolstered by a rally in the country’s commodity exports.  
 When the government sells bonds abroad, the central bank
 buys the dollars  raised, adding to its reserves. The increase
prompts the bank to sell real bonds in the local market to
prevent a surge in the money supply, adding to the country’s
financing costs, Valle said.  
 “We need to coordinate the stretch of this debt with the
international reserves,” Valle said in a June 21 interview at
Bloomberg Headquarters in New York. “If I sell this in the
market, the central bank will have to sterilize it and to pay
the interest rate.”  
 JPMorgan forecasts Brazil may issue $1.2 billion more bonds
in overseas markets this year.  
 “They are a sporadic issuer,” Morden said. “All
governments have multiple policy objectives -- funding costs,
foreign exchange flows. Right now, the primary focus is the
domestic market and that does come with a cost.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net 
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The government may sell debt abroad in coming weeks, Treasury Secretary Arno Augustin told reporters in Brasilia. Photographer: Adriano Machado/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
