-- Hungary Defies ECB Warning, Commits to Cutting Central Bank Chief's Pay
-- Zoltan Simon
-- 2010-07-14T16:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/hungary-remains-committed-to-capping-public-pay-after-ecb-warning-on-simor.html

          
          
             Hungary’s government is disputing
objections from the European Central Bank over a plan to cut the
salary of  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  President  Andras Simor , who earns
more than twice as much as  Ben S. Bernanke .  
 “The government discussed the ECB’s opinion, several
experts have studied the ECB’s stance and they dispute it on
several points,” government spokeswoman Anna Nagy said in
Budapest after today’s Cabinet meeting. She declined to identify
the contended points.  
 The ECB this week told Hungary to drop plans to cut  Simor ’s $458,000 annual salary by 75 percent, saying the move
threatened central bank independence. The Frankfurt-based
institution also reproached Hungary for not allowing an
“appropriate” consultation timeframe.  
 The government discussed the letter today and found that
introducing a salary cap on public wages was the “right
decision,”  Peter Szijjarto , spokesman for the prime minister,
said according to MTI news service. The consultation process
with the central bank and the ECB went “according to laws and
regulations,” Szijjarto said, MTI reported. Lawmakers will vote
on the plan next week.  
 Pressure on Simor  
 The government proposal tightens pressure on the bank after
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  called on Simor to quit for being
slow to reduce interest rates and for having kept investments in
Cyprus instead of Hungary. Simor has said he will serve out his
term, which ends in 2013.  
 The wage cut would be part of a wider push by the new
government to cap state salaries at 2 million forint ($8,993),
or 10 times the  average  monthly gross salary, as a symbolic
measure contributing to the government’s effort to reduce the
 budget deficit  and meet terms of an  International Monetary Fund -
led loan. The bulk of the revenue needed to meet this year’s 3.8
percent deficit target of gross domestic product would come from
a 187 billion forint extra levy on financial institutions,
mostly banks.  
 The government says Simor’s salary is disproportionately
high at 40 times the average wage. His salary is on a par with
ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet ’s and is more than double U.S.
Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke’s $199,700. Polish central
bank Governor  Marek Belka  earns $123,936 annually.  
 Central Bank Independence  
 Any wage cuts at the Hungarian central bank should only
apply to Simor’s successors, to allay concerns that the measure
would be intended to pressure the current leadership of the
bank, Trichet said in a July 12 statement.  
 “The draft law should be amended to comply with the
principle of central bank independence,” Trichet said. “The
draft law should specifically provide that such an amendment may
apply only to future appointments.”  
 Orban, whose Fidesz party swept to power in April elections
after eight years in the opposition, has been wresting control
of institutions including independent ones in the first months
since taking office. The head of the independent financial
regulator,  Adam Farkas , quit last month citing a lack of
confidence from the new cabinet. Orban appointed a ruling party
member to head the independent State Audit Office.  
 Simor, who was appointed by the previous Socialist-led
government in 2007, has been criticized by Fidesz since early
this year and attacks escalated after the elections, with
several cabinet members urging him to quit. The party has
charged the bank was slow to reduce the  benchmark interest rate 
from an EU-high and didn’t do enough to stem the spread of
foreign-currency loans, which triggered a wave of defaults.  
 ‘Prone to Fail’  
 The cabinet should give up its “attacks” on the bank,
which are “dangerous” and “prone to fail,” Simor said on
June 21.  
 Two central bank chiefs were forced out before their term
expired since the end of communism two decades ago.  
 Gyorgy Suranyi  lost his job after a year in 1991, when the
country’s first freely elected government changed the central
bank law to give the prime minister the power to replace him. He
served a full term from 1995 to 2001. Orban, who became premier
in 1998, clashed with Suranyi over the relaxation of currency
controls and losses at the central bank’s Austrian unit.  
 Peter Akos Bod , central bank head between 1991 and 1994,
resigned midway through his term, citing “political conflicts”
over the bank’s independence with the Socialist government that
had ousted the administration which installed him.  
 For Related News and Information:
Hungarian economy statistics: ECST HU <GO>
About Hungarian politics: TNI HUNGARY POL <GO>
Top east European stories: EEUT <GO>
Emerging market view: EMMV <GO>
Hungarian elections: TNI HUNGARY ELECT <GO>  
          
          


  


        