-- EBay, Louis Vuitton, Foxconn: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-14T13:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/uspto-ebay-louis-vuitton-wwe-blige-foxconn-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             The  U.S. Patent and Trademark Office 
should get as much as $279 million to help the agency deal with
a backlog of patent applications, President  Barack Obama  said in
a request for supplemental funding from Congress.  
 The patent office, which experienced a drop in fees last
year because of the recession, is seeing a rebound in
applications and wants to keep more of the money it collects.
Otherwise, any money above its $1.89 billion fiscal 2010 budget
would enter the general treasury to be spent by Congress on
other programs.  
 Improving the patent office has been a key goal of the
Obama administration, which has said that better protection for
intellectual property will be a driver of economic growth. The
patent office has said technology innovation is linked to three-
quarters of U.S. growth since the end of World War II.  
 The additional funds would go toward salaries and expenses
directed at improving efficiency at the agency. The patent
office is struggling to reduce a  backlog  of more than 700,000
applications in the last fiscal year. On average, it takes 34.6
months to  complete  a patent application and the office is
seeking to reduce that to 20 months by fiscal 2014.  
 The proposal would “support efforts to reduce backlogs in
processing patent applications -- by spurring innovation and
reforming U.S. Patent and Trademark Office operations to make
them more effective,” Obama said in a letter yesterday to House
Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat.  
 Under Obama’s proposal, which must be approved by Congress,
the agency would get $129 million that had been budgeted for the
Census Bureau and be allowed to keep as much as $150 million
above that if it collects more in fees, for a total budget of
$2.17 billion in fiscal 2010.  
 Obama has  proposed  a $2.32 billion budget for the year
beginning in October. The agency plans to hire 1,000 patent
examiners in each of the next two fiscal years to reach its goal
of reducing the application pendency rate.  
 The agency has developed a program to cut 12 months off the
application process for technology that promotes renewable
energy and environmental improvements and has told inventors the
agency will expedite one application if another pending
application is dropped, as a way of prioritizing inventions.  
 It has also proposed a  three-track  program that lets
inventors have their applications reviewed more quickly if they
pay higher fees. A public hearing on the proposal is scheduled
for July 20 at the agency’s headquarters in Alexandria,
Virginia.  
 Without increased funding and improvements, the patent
office projects a backlog of more than 1 million applications
and an average pendency of 40 months by fiscal 2015.  
 EBay Sued for $3.8 Billion Over XPRT Payment Patents  
 EBay Inc. , the most-visited U.S. e-commerce site, and units
including PayPal Inc. were sued by XPRT Ventures LLC for $3.8
billion over claims the online retailer infringed patents
related to e-commerce payment systems.  
 EBay infringed six patents for online payments and stole
trade secrets by sharing information in a patent application
despite a confidentiality agreement, Greenwich, Connecticut-
based XPRT said yesterday in a complaint in U.S. District Court
in Wilmington, Delaware.  
 “XPRT asserts EBay unfairly stole the idea and method of
payment used in EBay’s PayPal and similar electronic payment
systems,” XPRT said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  
 “We are reviewing the complaint filed today. We believe it
is without merit, and intend to defend ourselves vigorously,”
 John Pluhowski , a spokesman for San Jose, California-based EBay,
said in an e-mail.  
 The case is 10-cv-595, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 LVMH Says Court to Examine Google Keyword-Use in Fight Over Ads  
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA  said a French appeal
court will examine  Google Inc. ’s possible liability in a dispute
over sales of trademarked terms as keywords that link searches
to advertisements.  
 The Cour de Cassation, France’s highest court, has asked
the Paris appeals court to look at potential “wrongdoings” by
Google “to the detriment of Louis Vuitton,” Paris-based LVMH
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  
 The European Union’s highest court on March 23 ruled that
while Google, owner of the world’s most-used search engine,
doesn’t breach companies’ trademark rights by selling keywords,
it may be liable for trademark breaches in adverts if it knew
of, or had control over, ad data. The top French court had in
2008 sought the EU tribunal’s guidance in the case.  
 Google’s storage of ad content on its systems may make it
liable for trademark breaches if national judges find it plays
an “active role” in creating the promotions, the EU court
said.  
 The Cour de Cassation “considers that Google can be held
liable on the grounds of civil liability,” LVMH said in today’s
statement. The decision “opens the possibility for the appeals
court to decide on the civil liability of Google over the use of
trademarks without the owner’s authorization.”  
 The French court “confirmed that Google has not infringed
trademark law by allowing advertisers to select keywords
corresponding to third party trademarks,” Benjamin Amaudric Du
Chaffaut, a lawyer for Google, said in an e-mailed statement.
“User interest is best served by maximizing the choice of
keywords.”  
 WWE Hall of Famer Sues Political Candidate Over Trademark  
 Jerry “The King” Lawler , a member of  World Wrestling
Entertainment Inc. ’s Hall of Fame, sued the Democratic candidate
for clerk of Shelby County, Tennessee, for trademark and
copyright infringement, the Memphis-based Commercial Appeal
 reported .  
 Lawler claims Corey Maclin’s actions have infringed the
wrestler’s trademark and copyright interests in “Memphis
Wrestling,” a Memphis-based wrestling promotion organization,
according to the newspaper.  
 Maclin, a former wrestling promoter, told the Commercial
Appeal that although he once employed Lawler, he no longer has
any connection to the wrestling program.  
 The ex-promoter claims the infringement suit is politically
motivated because Lawler is supporting the Republican candidate
for county clerk, according to the newspaper.  
 Mike Love ’s Trademark Claims Can’t Reach U.K. Beach Boy Promo  
 A founding member of the Beach Boys band was unsuccessful
in his suit over promotional CDs and advertisements distributed
in the U.K.  
 The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said a trial court
had properly tossed out all of  Mike Love ’s claims involving a
promotional campaign for a band’s tour in the U.K. The band,
with Beach Boys founder  Brian Wilson , made a recording that was
distributed along with a British newspaper.  
 Love claimed the distribution of 2.6 million copies of the
CD infringed his right to use “ The Beach Boys ” trademark for
live performances. He presented a declaration by a customer who
bought one of the distributed CDs on eBay Inc.’s auction website
because he thought it was an official Beach Boys product.  
 The trial court found that the eBay purchaser was a close
associate of Love’s counsel, rejected the declaration and
sanctioned Love’s lawyer. The court also rejected all other
claims made by Love.  
 In his appeal, Love claimed he was harmed by actions in the
U.K., that his trademark protections extended to that country,
and that he should also be able to make a claim under California
unfair-business statutes.  
 The appeals court disagreed, saying U.S. trademark law
didn’t have a far enough reach to extend to the U.K., and
neither did California’s unfair-business laws.  
 Paraphrasing a Beach Boy’s hit song, Judge  Sidney Thomas 
wrote that while Love wanted to assert California claims on
actions that occurred in the U.K., “Love wishes they could all
could be California torts.”  
 In another reference to rock-and-roll history, Thomas also
noted that Love “was concerned that a second British invasion
and fearful return to touring might dampen enthusiasm for his
own performances.”  
 The case is Love v. Sanctuary Records, 07-56568, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the 9th Circuit (San Francisco).  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 Foxconn Asks Court to Toss Out Claims in BYD Countersuit  
 Foxconn International Holdings Ltd.  urged a Hong Kong judge
to throw out claims made by a Warren Buffett-backed company in a
countersuit that accuses Foxconn of gathering false evidence.  
 The claims should be struck because  BYD Co.  failed to
provide any “material” facts or allegations to back its case
filed Oct. 2, 2009,  Winston Poon , Foxconn’s lawyer, said at a
hearing yesterday in the Court of First Instance in Hong Kong.  
 “Not only are the matters immaterial, they are also
vexatious,” Poon said. “They will waste the court’s time and
money.” Judge Louis Chan didn’t specify at the end of the
hearing when he would rule on Foxconn’s request.  
 BYD, backed by billionaire Buffett, countersued after two
Foxconn units filed a suit in 2007 that claimed BYD recruited
Foxconn employees and stole the companies’ trade secrets. BYD,
China’s largest maker of rechargeable batteries, doubled its
revenue from its handset business in 2005, 2006 and 2007 as a
result, Foxconn said in court documents.  
 In its countersuit, BYD accuses its rival of unlawful
interference with its business, defamation and conspiracy to
injure. Foxconn was involved in planting documents and coercing
a former employee to confess he had stolen secrets, according to
BYD’s filings.  
 “The Foxconn parties embarked upon a course of conduct of
procuring and using false or fabricated evidence,” BYD said in
its suit. Foxconn’s “ultimate objective” was to damage the
business relationship between BYD and its investors and
customers, BYD said.  
 In 2008, BYD failed to persuade a Hong Kong judge to order
the case to be tried in Shenzhen, China, where BYD is based.
Judge Thomas Au in Hong Kong ruled he wasn’t convinced Shenzhen
was a preferable venue.  
 Liu Xiang Jun, former chief operating officer of one of the
Foxconn units, joined BYD in 2005. In a separate proceeding, he
was convicted in Shenzhen of infringing Foxconn’s business
secrets, according to court documents. Si Shao Qing and Zhang
Jian, who had worked for the same unit, were also convicted of
infringing Foxconn’s business secrets.  
 Foxconn, the world’s largest contract-manufacturer of
mobile phones, faces competition from BYD for orders of handset
components from customers including  Nokia Oyj .  
 The case is HCA2114/2007, BYD Co. and Shenzhen Futaihong
Precision Industry Co. in the Hong Kong Court of First Instance.  
 Copyright  
 Mary Blige Accused of Infringing “Take Me as I Am’ Copyright  
 Pop singer  Mary J. Blige  was sued for copyright
infringement related to her hit song “Take Me as I Am.”  
 According to a complaint filed July 8 in federal court in
Los Angeles, Utah-based songwriters Jay Brian Ballard and Kim
Jones wrote “Take Me as I Am” in 1995, and registered the
copyright. They claim Blige’s version is “substantially
similar” to theirs and the two songs “coincide melodically,
rhythmically and harmonically.”  
 The songwriters allege that Blige and her songwriters knew
they infringed and never made any effort to get permission to
use their work.  
 They asked the court to rule that their work was infringed,
and for an award of money damages and profits flowing from the
alleged infringement. Additionally, they seek orders for seizure
of all infringing copies of their song and barring future
infringement. They’ve always requested attorney fees and
litigation costs.  
 The two songwriters are unrepresented by counsel.  
 The case is Jay Ballard v. Mary J. Blige, 2:10-cv-05015-
CBM-RC, U.S. District Court, Central District of California (Los
Angeles).  
 Scholastic Corp. Sued by Author for Harry Potter Similarities  
 The estate of U.K. author  Adrian Jacobs  sued Scholastic
Corp. in New York alleging that the best-selling “Harry
Potter” books are “substantially similar” to his 1987 book
“ Adventures of Willy the Wizard: Livid Land No. 1 .”  
 The copyright infringement lawsuit filed in U.S. District
Court in New York yesterday claims that J.K. Rowling, the author
of the Potter books, which have sold more than 375 million
copies worldwide, shared the same literary agent as Jacobs.  
 The estate sued Rowling’s British publisher,  Bloomsbury
Publishing Plc  in June 2009 with similar allegations. At the
time that suit was filed, Rowling said in a statement she’d
“never heard of the author or the book” before the first
accusations of plagiarism were made in 2004. “I have certainly
never read the book,” she said.  
 Jacobs, an accountant and lawyer, died in 1997, ten years
after a stroke left him unable to manage his affairs, according
to his biography. Before he became ill, he wrote an unpublished
sequel to “Willy the Wizard.”  
 The U.K. case is Paul Gregory Allen v. Bloomsbury
Publishing Plc, HC091979, High Court of Justice, Chancery
Division.  
 The new case is Paul Gregory Allen v. Scholastic Inc.,
1:10-cv-05445, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        