-- Bailouts Failed to Aid Small U.S. Banks, Warren Says
-- Betty Liu
-- 2010-07-14T17:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/warren-says-bailouts-didn-t-help-small-u-s-banks-while-aiding-wall-street.html

          
          
             Elizabeth Warren , who leads the
congressional panel overseeing the Troubled Asset Relief
Program, said U.S. taxpayer bailouts helped Wall Street and not
small banks.  
 TARP “worked really well for the Wall Street banks, but it
didn’t work well for the rest of the banks in the system,”
Warren said today on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop with
 Betty Liu .”  
 Warren said small banks are burdened by soured loans
extended to commercial property developers during the real-
estate boom. Her comments underscore concerns by policy makers
including Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  that a lack
of bank lending is impeding the economic recovery.  
 “The commercial real estate problem for small banks is
huge,” Warren said. “The overall economy obviously is a
problem for them.”  
 Last month, Bernanke and fellow Fed policy makers
reiterated a pledge to keep the main interest rate close to zero
for an “extended period” and said “tight credit” is
restraining spending. Banks’ loans to small businesses fell to
$670 billion from $710 billion over the past two years, Bernanke
said this week, citing government data.  
 “So long as small banks remain weak, their lending to
customers -- especially to small businesses -- will remain
constricted and will have a dampening effect on any economic
recovery,” Warren’s Congressional Oversight Panel said in a
report released today.  
 Repayment Obligations  
 Small banks that took money from TARP may struggle under
the weight of their repayment obligations, the report said. As a
result, the Treasury Department may be stuck with stakes in
banks that can’t raise replacement capital, the panel said.  
 Also, there’s little evidence that TARP helped the small
banks, the panel said. Unless the banking sector and the economy
recovers, the Treasury may not have any options other than
“wait and see” for managing its investment in these banks, the
report said.  
 Banks that don’t repay TARP capital by 2013 will have their
dividend payment grow to 9 percent from the current 5 percent.
About 10 percent of the participating smaller banks have repaid
taxpayers, and another 15 percent are late on at least one
dividend payment, according to the report.  
 Congress authorized TARP in October 2008 to prevent a
collapse of the U.S. financial system. Large companies including
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp. that took
funds have since repaid the government.  
 Consumer Protection Agency  
 Warren declined to comment on whether she’s interested in
heading a consumer protection agency that’s part of the overhaul
of financial-services regulations the Senate may approve this
week. The proposed agency “is strong, it has a lot of teeth,”
Warren said.  
 The oversight panel recommended that the Treasury clarify
its exit strategy and also develop a policy for how to handle
banks that miss six or more dividend payments and trigger a
provision that lets the government replace board members. The
Treasury injected about $205 billion in capital into 707 banks,
including 690 with assets of less than $100 billion, the report
said.  
 Treasury spokesman  Mark Paustenbach  said TARP is “still
providing relief” to participating small banks. He said there
have been four failures of small banks that accepted capital
injections, or 0.6 percent of banks that took TARP funds. Out of
all U.S. banks, 2.9 percent have failed since the end of 2007,
he said.  
 Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said last month that
the capital injections for small banks were designed to help
them weather the economic crisis. The Treasury will work with
the banks to give them alternatives to slashing lending in a way
that would harm the recovery, he told Warren’s panel in a June
22 hearing.  
 The oversight panel has five members, three appointed by
Democrats and two by Republicans. Four Republicans have left the
panel since it was created in October 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Elizabeth Warren, chairman of the congressional oversight panel for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Elizabeth Warren, chairwoman of the Congressional Oversight Panel for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, talks about the effectiveness of TARP and the viability of a consumer protection bureau, which would be created under the financial overhaul bill.  
     Warren talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop."
 (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
