-- West Virginia Probe Into Deadly Mine Blast Slowed by Debris, McAteer Says
-- Chris Stratton
-- 2010-07-14T23:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/west-virginia-probe-into-deadly-mine-blast-slowed-by-debris-mcateer-says.html

          
          
             West Virginia’s special investigator
for the coal mine explosion that killed 29 people in April said
dust, water, debris and roof-falls are hampering his probe at
the mine.  
 J. Davitt McAteer , named by West Virginia’s governor to
assess the causes of the blast at  Massey Energy Co. ’s Upper Big
Branch unit, said underground conditions at the mine also are
slowing separate probes by federal authorities and Massey.
McAteer wouldn’t discuss interim findings of his effort.  
 “Things we’re seeing are things that systemically need to
be corrected,” McAteer said today at a news conference in
Charleston, West Virginia. He said the issues were “industry-
wide problems,” then declined to elaborate.  
 The April 5 explosion at Massey’s Performance Coal
operation in Montcoal, West Virginia, was the worst U.S. mine
disaster in 40 years.  
 McAteer said his team has conducted 126 interviews and
expects to question 100 more people. The evidence suggests that
whatever caused the explosion, the miners who died in it were
killed instantly, he said.  
 McAteer, who served as assistant secretary for mine safety
and health at the U.S. Labor Department during President  Bill Clinton’s  administration, was appointed by Governor  Joe Manchin 
a week after the explosion to head the independent investigative
committee.  
 He previously headed independent probes of fatal incidents
in 2006 at the  Sago  and  Aracoma  mines in West Virginia.  
 ‘Collection of Evidence’  
 “Massey appreciates Mr. McAteer’s willingness to conduct
today’s briefing and emphasize how important of a role the
collection of evidence will be in the Upper Big Branch (UBB)
investigation,”  Shane Harvey , the company’s general counsel,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 “However, Massey continues to have strong reservations and
concerns with the inadequate evidence collection methods being
employed by the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA),”
he said. “The fact that MSHA is travelling through areas of the
UBB mine without collaboratively and comprehensively documenting
what is potentially key evidence raises serious questions about
the agency’s ability to conduct a fair and accurate
investigation.”  
 Massey rose 14 cents to $29.52 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. Shares have fallen 46 percent since the April
5 explosion.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Stratton  in Logan, West Virginia, at 
 chrisstratton2010@yahoo.com .  
          
          


  


        