-- Wheat Drops in Chicago as Global Stockpiles May Make Up for Russian Losses
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-07-14T10:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/wheat-drops-as-stockpile-estimate-outweighs-concerns-over-russia-drought.html

          
          
             Wheat futures fell in Chicago on
speculation that global supply will be sufficient to make up for
potential losses in Russia. Milling wheat climbed in Paris.  
 Global wheat stockpiles at the beginning of the 2010-2011
marketing year are 193 million metric tons, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture said July 9. That’s more than three times the 53
million-ton forecast harvest for Russia, according to U.S.
Department of Agriculture data.  
 “At the end of the day, we still do have ample carry-over
supplies,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at Commonwealth
Bank of Australia, said by phone from Sydney today.  
 Wheat for September-delivery fell as much as 0.7 percent
and was down 0.4 percent at $5.47 a bushel on the Chicago Board
of Trade at 10:58 a.m. London time. Prices climbed 2.5 percent
yesterday on speculation of more demand for livestock feed as
hot weather curbed crop prospects in Russia.  
 Drought in Russia will reduce its wheat production by about
20 percent from last year,  Alexander Bos , an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. in London, said on Bloomberg Television
today. The U.S. may boost exports to make up for reduced output
in Russia, he said.  
 Hot, dry weather will persist in parts of Russia through
July 17, with rains coming to the Urals and Siberia, the Federal
Hydrometeorological Service said on its website yesterday.  
 The government declared emergencies in two more Russian
crop-producing regions this week, bringing the total to 16, as
the worst drought in at least a decade damages grains. November
futures for milling wheat, used to make bread, climbed 0.9
percent to 163.25 euros ($207) a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in
Paris.  
 ‘Significant Interest’  
 “The continued focus on dryness in Russia and Kazakhstan
is of significant interest,” Mathews said. “It is likely the
reductions that we’ve seen in yield potentials will flow through
to the next round of the USDA report.”  
 The USDA is scheduled to release its next estimate of
global agricultural supply and demand on Aug. 12.  
 Wheat futures may decline 5 percent to 10 percent from
today’s prices by the end of September as “the market probably
got a little bit ahead of itself in terms of issues in Russia,”
Mathews said. Futures jumped 14 percent this month to yesterday.  
 Ukraine, the second-biggest producer in the former Soviet
Union, harvested wheat from 321,000 hectares (792,870 acres) as
of July 8, with an average yield of 2.7 tons a hectare compared
with 2.55 tons last year, UkrAgroConsult, a Kiev-based
researcher, said July 12.  
 France, the largest wheat producer in the European Union,
will export 9.85 million tons of soft wheat outside the European
Union, 3.6 percent more than forecast last month, as the euro’s
decline makes the grain cheaper overseas, national crops office
FranceAgriMer said.  
 Corn for December delivery climbed 0.3 percent to $3.88 a
bushel and soybeans for November delivery increased 0.2 percent
to $9.5675 a bushel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Ryan Chilcote reports from the Lipetsk region of Russia on investment in the country's agricultural industry and wheat exports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Alexander Bos, a commodity analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., talks about the effect of a drought on Russian wheat exports and the ability of the U.S. to benefit from any slump.
     Bos also discusses the outlook for livestock, soybean and corn prices. He speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
