-- Whitney Drops as BP Oil Spill Sparks Concern on Gulf Coast Loan Payments
-- Laura Keeley
-- 2010-07-14T21:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/whitney-holding-drops-most-in-18-years-on-loan-losses-after-gulf-oil-spill.html

          
          
             Whitney Holding Corp. , the New
Orleans-based lender to the oil and gas industry, fell the most
in 18 years of New York trading after saying it may set aside
$62 million for bad loans in the wake of BP Plc.’s oil spill.  
 Whitney slid $1.79, or 18 percent, to $8.18 as of 4 p.m. on
the Nasdaq Stock Market, posting the biggest drop in the  Russell
2000 Index . That’s Whitney’s biggest plunge since the company
began trading on the Nasdaq in October 2001, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  
 The bank has dropped 44 percent since the April 20
explosion that destroyed  Transocean Ltd. ’s Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig, which was run by BP Plc. Shares of Gulf Coast
 lenders  have been under pressure on concern that borrowers won’t
be able to pay on time, and a Florida banking trade group asked
U.S. regulators this week to relax rules on capital and lending.  
 “The lack of predictability as to the timing of an
economic recovery, coupled with the uncertainty as to the impact
of the oil spill on our markets, has tempered our optimism for
the second half of 2010,” Chief Executive Officer  John C. Hope III  in a statement after yesterday’s trading ended.  
 Real Estate Loans  
 Whitney expects to set aside at least $57 million for
credit losses in the second quarter, mostly to cover  real estate 
loans in Florida, the statement said. The bank earmarked a
$5 million reserve for the impact of the oil spill on tourism.  
 Trisha Voltz Carlson, Whitney’s investor-relations manager,
didn’t return calls seeking comment. Whitney operates over 150
branches across Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and
Florida. The bank posted  losses  for the first quarter of 2010
and the full year in 2009, and is scheduled to report second-
quarter results on July 27. The consensus of 10  analysts 
surveyed by Bloomberg calls for a loss of $12.8 million.  
 Among other lenders operating in the Gulf region, shares of
Atlanta-based  SunTrust Banks Inc . fell 16 percent since the BP
spill, Birmingham, Alabama-based  Regions Financial Corp. 
declined 19 percent and Columbus, Georgia-based  Synovus
Financial Corp.  slid 29 percent.  
 BP  has committed $20 billion to pay damage claims linked to
the largest U.S. oil spill in history. The Federal Reserve today
urged financial institutions to help customers hurt by the spill
by expediting lending decisions, restructuring debt and easing
credit terms and fees.  
 The Fed, joined by five other regulators including the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., also said examiners “will
consider the unusual circumstances” when they’re looking at the
safety and soundness of lenders in affected areas.  Barbara Hagenbaugh  of the FDIC declined to comment.  
 The president of the Florida Bankers Association, Alex
Sanchez, asked regulators July 12 to lower capital requirements
for the state’s banks, suspend the use of appraisals for loans
and help banks participate in the BP claims process.  
 “This oil-spill crisis is decimating our economy in the
state of Florida,” Sanchez said in an interview today, citing
the impact of diminished crowds on the $65 billion tourism
industry. “We hope and pray the oil does not hit the west coast
of Florida around the Keys.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Keeley  in New York at 
 lkeeley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        