-- Woods's Dominance at `Home of Golf' Makes Him 6-1 Favorite at British Open
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-07-15T07:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/woods-s-dominance-at-home-of-golf-makes-him-6-1-favorite-at-british-open.html

          
          
             Tiger Woods  will tee off today at
St. Andrews chasing his third straight British Open win at the
“Home of Golf.”  
 Woods won the oldest major championship, in its 150th
year, in 2000 and 2005 at St. Andrews and is the 6-1 favorite
at U.K. bookmaker  William Hill Plc  to make it a hat-trick at
the Old Course. He also triumphed at Royal Liverpool in 2006.  
 “I understand how to play this golf course,” 14-time
major winner Woods said at a news conference two days ago.
“I’ve done well two out of the three times I’ve played here so
that’s kind of how I look at it.”  
 Woods won by a combined 13 shots in 2000 and 2005 and has
called St. Andrews his favorite course. The 34-year-old was 11-
under par for the first two rounds in both his victories at the
venue, which is located north-east of the Scottish capital,
Edinburgh. He went on to win by eight shots in 2000 and posted
a five-stroke victory in 2005.  
 Woods, who last won a major at the 2008 U.S. Open, tees
off at 9:09 a.m. local time with England’s  Justin Rose , a two-
time winner on the U.S. PGA Tour this year, and Colombia’s
 Camilo Villegas .  
 Play began at 6:30 a.m. under gray clouds with little
wind. Rain is forecast for late morning before skies clear in
the afternoon, according to the U.K. Met Office.  
 Rose is one of seven players ranked in the top 20 in the
world who are looking to become the first British winner of the
tournament since  Paul Lawrie  of Scotland at Carnoustie in 1999.  
 Six Tournaments  
 Rory McIlroy  of Northern Ireland is second favorite to win
at 16-1, Rose is 21-1, world No. 3  Lee Westwood  is 22-1,  Ian Poulter  is 28-1, U.S. Open champion  Graeme McDowell  and  Luke Donald  are 35-1, and  Paul Casey  is 46-1.  
 Woods has failed to win any of the six tournaments he’s
played in this year, his worst performance since 1998, when he
won in his ninth event.  
 Woods tied for fourth in this season’s first two majors --
at last month’s U.S. Open and at the Masters Tournament in
April in his return to competitive golf after a five-month
absence. He comes to St. Andrews after failing to break par in
any round at the AT&T National two weeks ago, the first time
he’s done that outside the majors in 11 years. He also missed a
cut this season and withdrew from an event with a neck injury.  
 None of that matters when you put Woods and the Old Course
together, said 2002 British Open champion  Ernie Els , the fourth
favorite to win at 18-1.  
 “He’ll be a factor because of the width you have here,”
Els, 40, told reporters. “You’ve got room to play with. He
knows how to play the course.”  
 Double Greens, Fairways  
 A quirk of the Old Course is that some fairways and greens
are shared between two holes. That doesn’t mean players have a
green light to blast the ball from the tees, Woods said.  
 “This golf course requires placement,” he said. “Just
because it’s wide off the tees doesn’t mean you can blow it all
over the place. You have to hit the ball in the correct spots.
And the two years that I’ve played well here, I’ve done that.
I’ve managed my game really well.”  
 Woods, who was eliminated after two rounds at Turnberry
last year, is switching putters for the first time in 11 years
to combat the slower greens at St. Andrews.  
 He’s changing to a  Nike Method  model from the Titleist
Scotty Cameron putter he used to win 13 majors since 1999. As a
result, all of the clubs in his bag will now be Nike.  
 In addition to a 15th major title and fourth British Open
win, Woods’s 226-week stay atop the  Official World Golf Ranking 
is at stake.  
 Mickelson’s Quest  
 Masters champion  Phil Mickelson , the 17-1 second favorite
at William Hill, can become No. 1 for the first time with a win
or by finishing as low as fourth, depending on the performance
of Woods, who has been the top-ranked player for 608 weeks over
his career.  
 While 40-year-old left-hander Mickelson has never won the
British Open, he tied for sixth place in 2005 and 11th in 2000
at St. Andrews.  
 “I expect to play well here, I really do,” the four-time
major winner said at a news conference. “It would be great to
get that ranking, but what I care more about right now is
trying to win the Open Championship.”  
 Mickelson tees off at 2:20 p.m. with  Colin Montgomerie ,
the Scot who finished second behind Woods in 2005, and two-time
U.S. Open champion  Retief Goosen  of South Africa.  
 Mickelson expects Woods to be among the leaders on the
final day.  
 “He will be in contention on Sunday, I don’t know how
anybody can question that,” he said. “He’s gutted out two
fourth-place finishes in majors, being in contention when he
probably didn’t have his best stuff, and this course sets up
well for him.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  at St. Andrews through the London sports desk at
   bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        