-- World's Biggest Coal Harbor Shipped Record Volumes From Australia in June
-- Ben Sharples
-- 2010-07-14T03:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/world-s-biggest-coal-harbor-shipped-record-volumes-from-australia-in-june.html

          
          
             Coal shipments from Australia’s Hay
Point port, the world’s biggest export harbor for the commodity,
climbed to a record in June as the coordination of rail
deliveries improved.  
 Coal exports reached 10.1 million metric tons from the
harbor’s Dalrymple Bay and Hay Point terminals, according to
figures on the North Queensland Bulk Ports Corp.’s  website . Both
facilities shipped a monthly record, Port authority spokeswoman
Rachel Campbell said today in an e-mailed response to questions.  
 “The rate was achieved by reducing the number of train
cancelations” and increasing the volume of coal railed to
the port, Dalrymple Bay General Manager of operations  Greg Smith 
said in e-mailed response to questions. Fewer trains need to be
canceled because planning between the terminal owners, rail
operators and track owner QR National has improved, he said.  
 Hay Point port, about 1,000 kilometers (620 miles) north of
Brisbane in Queensland state, has the capacity to export 129
million metric tons a year. Brazil and India should drive long-
term demand for steelmaking coal because of a lack of domestic
supply, according to Deutsche Bank AG. Rio Tinto Group,  Xstrata
Plc , BHP Billiton Ltd. and Peabody Energy Corp are among mining
companies that ship the commodity from the harbor.  
 Exports from Dalrymple Bay, which ships 80 percent of its
coal to steelmakers, reached 6.1 million tons in June. The
terminal, which has the capacity to export 85 million tons,
 shipped  63.1 million tons in the 12 months ended June 30.  
 Berths Closed  
 The volume exported from the Hay Point terminal, operated
by the BHP Billiton-Mitsubishi Alliance, was 4.05 million tons.
The facility, which has a capacity of 44 million tons, shipped
36.3 million tons in the 12 months ended June 30.  
 BHP Billiton-Mitsubishi Alliance and Prime Infrastructure
Group, which owns the lease and development rights for Dalrymple
Bay, this month closed berths at Hay Point port for planned
maintenance. QR National will also shut down the rail system
servicing the harbor starting today for scheduled maintenance.  
 Shutting one of four berths at Dalrymple Bay is unlikely to
have a “material impediment” on exports, Smith said July 8.
Any impact from the berth closure at Hay Point terminal will  be
reflected in BHP’s production report on July 21, Melbourne-based
spokeswoman  Fiona Martin  said the same day.  
 Coal shipments from Abbot Point, north of Hay Point port,
reached 1.67 million tons in June, the highest volume since
December, the North Queensland Bulk Ports website shows.  
 Newcastle Shipments  
 The terminal exported 16.9 million tons in the 12 months to
June 30. The harbor is being enlarged to 50 million tons in 2011
from 21 million tons now.  
 Shipments from Australia’s Newcastle, the world’s biggest
export port for coal burned by power stations, rose 1.2 percent
last week, Newcastle Port Corp. said on its website yesterday.
The volume exported in the week ended 7 a.m. local time July 12
climbed to 1.86 million metric tons from 1.84 million tons in
the preceding period.  
 Rising power demand in China and India is expected to
underpin a “positive thermal coal outlook,” Deutsche analysts
led by Sydney-based  Brendan Fitzpatrick  said in a June 30 client
note.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        