-- Yamaha's European Motorcycle Sales Plummet on Debt Crisis, Stronger Yen
-- Yuki Hagiwara
-- 2010-07-15T08:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/yamaha-s-european-motorcycle-sales-plummet-on-debt-crisis-stronger-yen.html

          
          
             Yamaha Motor Co. , the world’s
second-largest motorcycle maker, said sales in North America and
Europe may fall twice as much as forecast as a spreading debt
crisis damps demand. The shares fell the most in three months.  
 “From May, there has been a sudden impact from the Greek
crisis,” Chief Executive Officer  Hiroyuki Yanagi  said in an
interview in Tokyo yesterday. Combined sales in North America
and Europe may decline as much as 20 percent this year, compared
with an earlier estimate for a drop of about 10 percent, he said.  
 Slumping demand for motorcycles in developed countries is
forcing Yamaha to slash jobs and close plants. The company will
shut five factories in Japan and one making boats in the U.S. by
2012, adding to the closure of a motorcycle plant in Italy last
year. Yamaha will cut as many as 1,000 jobs this year after
eliminating 1,100  positions  in 2009.  
 The company last year posted its first  loss  since the year
ended April 1984 as sales tumbled 45 percent in North America
and 25 percent in Europe. Yamaha’s motorcycle sales in the two
markets made up 25 percent of its global two-wheeler revenue in
2009, down from 31 percent a year earlier. Declining demand for
large leisure-oriented models in the U.S., such as the 1.3-liter
$19,690 Royal Star Venture, contrasts with a recovery in car
sales.  
 Sales in Asia excluding Japan this year may exceed a 14
percent growth forecast made in February, Yanagi said. Yamaha
expects to  break even  this year, and Yanagi declined to comment
on whether it would revise its forecast before the company’s
second-quarter earnings announcement on Aug. 4.  
 Significant Decline  
 After the company posted 7.5 billion yen ($85 million) in
first-quarter net income on May 12, “there has been expectation
in the market that the company will raise its forecast,” said
 Kohei Takahashi , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co in Tokyo. A
reiterated forecast “would be a negative surprise,” he said.  
 Honda Motor Co. , the world’s largest motorcycle maker, said
in an April presentation it expects its two-wheeler sales in
North America and Europe to drop less than 1 percent to 385,000
units in the fiscal year ending March 31.  
 Harley-Davidson Inc. , the largest U.S. motorcycle maker,
may report sales in the quarter ended June 30 fell to $1.13
billion from $1.28 billion a year earlier, according to the
average of eight analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Weak Euro  
 Yamaha  fell  4.9 percent, the most in more than three months,
to close at 1,146 yen in Tokyo trading, compared with a 1.1
percent drop in the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  
 The euro has weakened beyond Yamaha’s currency hedging
position and may crimp earnings in the second half of the year,
Yanagi said.  
 Yamaha based its earnings forecast on an exchange rate of
128 yen per euro. So far this year, the Japanese currency has
averaged about 121 to the euro, gaining 18 percent. A stronger
yen cuts the value of repatriated earnings from exports.  
 The company is investing proceeds from a  share sale  in
April to develop lower-priced motorcycles to boost sales in
emerging markets. The company’s biggest such market is Indonesia,
and growth will come mostly in China and Vietnam, Yanagi said.  
 Yamaha, which helped develop the V10 engine for  Toyota
Motor Corp. ’s Lexus LFA supercar, aims to cut costs by 60
billion yen between this year and December 2012, according to
its mid-term plan.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Hiroyuki Yanagi, president of Yamaha Motor Co.  
                       
                         
                           Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Hiroyuki Yanagi, president of Yamaha Motor Co., poses with company's EC-03 electric motorcycle. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Hiroyuki Yanagi, president of Yamaha Motor Co., poses with company's EC-03 electric motorcycle. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
