-- Euro Rises as Spain Sale Attracts Greater Demand; Yen Gains, Aussie Falls
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-07-15T10:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/yen-advances-as-fed-s-minutes-discourage-demand-for-higher-yielding-assets.html

          
          
             The euro rose against most of its
major peers as Spain attracted greater demand at a sale of
government bonds, assuaging concerns that so-called peripheral
euro-region nations won’t be able to fund their deficits.  
 The yen also advanced as signs of slower growth in the U.S.
and China curbed demand for higher-yielding assets. Spain sold 3
billion euros ($3.8 billion) of 15-year bonds, attracting bids
worth 2.57 times the securities offered, compared with 1.79 the
last time they were sold in April. The Australian and New
Zealand dollars declined along with Asian stocks.  
 “There’s been a lack of bad news for the euro and
softening growth in the U.S.,” said  Peter Frank , a strategist
at Societe Generale SA in London. In Europe, “there’s very
little in the way of bond supply until September, so not much to
rock the boat.”  
 The euro strengthened 0.4 percent to $1.2790 at 11 a.m. in
London. The yen strengthened to 88.02 per dollar from 88.41 in
New York yesterday. The Japanese currency was at 112.61 versus
the euro from 112.66.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered forecasts for the dollar
against the euro and yen amid slowing U.S. growth and
“reasonably solid” European economic data. Europe’s single
currency will reach $1.35 in six months from a previous call for
$1.15, Goldman said in a report dated yesterday. The dollar will
trade at 83 yen in six months from an earlier target for 94 yen,
it said.  
 Chinese Growth  
 Spain, which has to repay 24.7 billion euros of debt this
Month and is cutting spending, has the third-largest deficit in
the euro region and its banks are dependent on the European
Central Bank for funds.  
 China’s  economic expansion  eased to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter and industrial production cooled more than
forecast in June, signaling a deeper second-half slowdown that
may add to risks for the global economy.  
 Minutes of the Federal Reserve’s meeting last month showed
policy makers were concerned about unemployment and decelerating
inflation. The outlook had “softened somewhat” and risks to
the recovery had risen, the minutes said.  
 If the economic outlook worsened, policy makers would need
to consider whether additional stimulus was appropriate,
according to the minutes.  
 “Slowing U.S. growth and lower-for-longer interest rates
plays positively for the yen against the dollar,” said  Paul Robson , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. “We’re going to get a squeeze in
those risk-positive currencies.”  
 Dollar, Output Outlook  
 Output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities fell 0.1
percent in June following a 1.3 percent rise in the previous
month, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists ahead
of the Fed’s report today. Manufacturing in the New York region
expanded at a slower pace this month, according to a separate
survey before the Federal Reserve Bank of New York releases its
general economic index.  
 “There are renewed worries over the durability of the U.S.
economic rebound,” said  Yuji Saito , director of the foreign-
exchange department at Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment
Bank in Tokyo. “This is leading to selling of the dollar.”  
 U.S.  retail sales  decreased 0.5 percent in June after
falling a revised 1.1 percent in the previous month, the
Commerce Department said yesterday.  
 Australian Currency  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange showed yesterday a
13.7 percent chance the Fed will raise its  benchmark rate  from a
range of zero to 0.25 percent by its December 2010 meeting,
compared with 27 percent odds a month earlier.  
 Australia’s currency dropped the most in two weeks against
the dollar on speculation China, the biggest buyer of iron ore,
will cut annual imports for the first time since 1998 amid
government measures to curb asset prices. Australia is the
world’s biggest exporter of the raw material and China is its
largest trading partner.  
 “Because of its heavy reliance on Chinese economy, any bad
news that come out of that country hurts sentiment toward
Australia and the Aussie,” said  Toshiya Yamauchi , a senior
foreign-exchange analyst in Tokyo at Ueda Harlow Ltd.  
 Australia’s dollar fell to 88.02 U.S. cents from 88.51
cents in New York yesterday, when it climbed to 88.71 cents, the
highest since May 14.  
 Given current market conditions and first-half demand, it’s
almost certain China will import less iron ore this year than
last year’s record 628 million tons,  Xu Xiangchun , chief analyst
at Mysteel Research Institute, a metals research firm, said in a
telephone interview from Beijing.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional shares fell 0.9
percent and the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  lost 0.2 percent, while
futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 were little changed.  

 

To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
mbrown42@bloomberg.net;
Yasuhiko Seki in Tokyo at 
yseki5@bloomberg.net


 
          
          


  


        