-- Zapatero Says Spain `Can't Close Eyes' Over Pension System Overhaul Need
-- Emma Ross-Thomas
-- 2010-07-14T12:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/zapatero-says-spain-can-t-close-eyes-to-need-to-overhaul-pension-system.html

          
          
             Spain must overhaul its pension
system, raising the retirement age and changing the way payments
are calculated, Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero 
said, as the country tries to put its public finances in order.  
 The  government  wants to raise the retirement age to 67 from
65 and may increase the number of years of contributions that
are used to calculate pensions. That step might lead to lower
average payouts. Any changes must go through a cross-party
parliamentary commission and Zapatero said he wanted to seek
“consensus” on the revamp.  
 “We can’t close our eyes; we have to adapt our pension
system to demographic changes,” Zapatero told lawmakers in
Madrid today in his annual state-of-the-nation address. “We
want to clear up as soon as possible the uncertainties about the
sustainability of the system” and “strengthen the credibility
of our public finances,” he said.  
 Spain’s Socialist government is trying to cut the euro
region’s third-largest budget deficit while bolstering its
savings banks and returning the economy to growth after a two-
year  recession . Zapatero, who lacks a parliamentary majority,
has riled former allies in the unions and smaller political
parties with a policy U-turn aimed at cutting the deficit by
half in two years and taming a surge in  borrowing  costs.  
 Elsewhere in Europe  
 The Spanish plans coincide with steps by other European
countries to shore up their pension systems. The French Cabinet
approved an overhaul yesterday that raises the retirement age to
62 from 60. The parliament in Greece, which avoided default with
a European bailout, pushed back retirement ages and cut pension
payments last week.  
 Zapatero’s government, which had previously defended the
sustainability of the pension system, said in January it aimed
to increase the retirement age, in a move that angered unions
and some in his party.  Antonio Gutierrez , a senior Socialist
lawmaker, attacked the proposals in a March opinion piece in  El
Pais  newspaper, and unions are planning a general strike on
Sept. 29.  
 The next hurdle for Zapatero, who is seven seats short of a
majority, is to gather sufficient support in parliament to get
the 2011  budget  approved. The first stage of the budget process,
which establishes the overall spending limit, will be put to a
vote next week in the legislature.  
 The budget bill will be presented to parliament in
September, and the Catalan CiU party has warned Zapatero its 10
members won’t support it. The Basque Nationalist Party may offer
support, though at a price, because backing the budget would
mean “giving Zapatero political life,” Pedro Aspiazu, the
party’s economic spokesman, said in an interview last month.  
 Both parties criticized his address today, with CiU
spokesman  Josep Duran  saying Zapatero was in “another galaxy.”  
 Support for Zapatero is also waning among voters. A poll by
ABC newspaper published on June 14 showed the opposition
People’s Party, which has started billing itself as the party of
“workers,” opened up an 11.8 percentage-point lead over the
Socialists.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Spain's prime minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, gestures while addressing the Spanish parliament at the state of the nation debate in Madrid. Photographer: Denis Doyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
