-- Stocks Regulator to Probe China's Zijin Mining on Disclosure of Acid Leak
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-15T09:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/zijin-says-stocks-regulator-to-investigate-its-disclosure-of-mine-leakage.html

          
          
             Zijin Mining Group Co. , China’s
largest gold producer, said the nation’s securities regulator
will investigate its disclosure of an acid leak at a plant in
Fujian province that poisoned 1,890 metric tons of fish.  
 The company will cooperate with the China Securities
Regulatory Commission, spokesman  Zhao Jugang  said by phone today.  
 Zijin, which had initially blamed rains for the July 3 leak
at its copper smelter near Shanghang county where about half a
million people live, delayed disclosure of the incident for nine
days. Listed companies should disclose complete, accurate
information on a timely basis, China’s environmental protection
ministry said in statement  dated July 8 .  
 “Zijin may be fined 400 million yuan ($59 million) to 500
million yuan for the pollution,” said  Wu Kan , a Shanghai-based
fund manager at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285
million. “CSRC’s investigation will probably focus on whether
Zijin has delayed disclosure of the incident. A punishment on
this won’t cause a large fine.”  
 Zijin, based in Fujian province, dropped 12 percent on July
13 after the announcement to the lowest level in more than 15
months in Hong Kong trading. It declined 3.4 percent to close at
HK$4.82.  In Shanghai trading , the stock fell 4.2 percent to 5.52
yuan.  
 Environmental Issues  
 “We’re giving the local regulatory authorities the rundown
on what happened from July 3 to now,” Zhao said.  
 Zijin plans to spend 200 million yuan on environmental and
risks measures within a year as part of its restructuring plan
after the incident, Zhao said.  
 The Chinese government may make an example of Zijin as it
seeks to highlight a more serious stance toward environmental
issues, Bank of America Corp’s Merrill Lynch said July 12.  
 Waste water  containing acidic copper seeped into the Ting
River on July 3 from its plant, the company said in a filing to
the Hong Kong exchange on July 12. Copper production at
Zijinshan mine accounts for about 15 percent of Zijin’s annual
output of the metal, according to Guotai Junan Securities Co.  
 Copper Production  
 The plant produces 12,800 metric tons of copper a year, and
will only reopen after checks by environmental authorities. A
restart may not take place for at least six months, the South
China Morning Post reported today, citing company secretary
 Zheng Yuqiang . Zheng today denied making those comments.  
 The company can’t determine when it can reopen the plant
because that’s dependent on the conclusion of various government
investigations, Zhao said today.  
 About 1.89 million kilograms of fish in the Mianhuatan
reservoir were found dead or poisoned, Xinhua News Agency said
July 12.  
 -- Xiao Yu ,  Helen Yuan  and  Huang Zhe . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann , Andrew Hobbs   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Zhe Huang  in Beijing at 
 zhuang37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        