-- Zijin Mining Extends Probe After Admitting Leakage Explanation Incomplete
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-14T08:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/zijin-mining-to-probe-management-flaws-after-copper-waste-leak-kills-fish.html

          
          
             Zijin Mining Group Co. , China’s
largest gold producer, said its explanation for an acid spill
that polluted a river and poisoned 1,890 metric tons of fish in
Fujian was incomplete, and it will extend an investigation.  
 “The accident reflects some deeper issues about the
company,”  Zhao Jugang , a spokesman, said by phone from
Shanghang today. “We earlier said that the accident was a
result of heavy rains, but it’s not just that. We think closure
of the plant and an investigation are very necessary.”  
 Zijin, which had initially blamed rains for the leakage
near Shanghang county where about half a million people live,
delayed disclosure of the incident for nine days. Listed
companies should disclose complete, accurate information on a
timely basis, China’s environmental protection ministry said in
statement  dated July 8 .  
 “The company is under huge pressure from the media and
investors for the disclosure delay, and luckily for them, there
is no death or poisoning of human beings,” said  Owen Liang , a
Shenzhen-based analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co. “Some
small investors complained via the internet that Zijin’s
disclosure delay has caused them to lose a lot of money, and
they wanted compensation.”  
 Zijin, based in Fujian province, dropped 12 percent
yesterday to the lowest level in more than 15 months in Hong
Kong trading. The shares rose 2 percent to close at HK$5.00.
 In Shanghai trading , the stock was unchanged at 5.76 yuan.  
 Environmental Issues  
 The Chinese government may make an example of Zijin as it
seeks to highlight a more serious stance toward environmental
issues, Timothy Bush from Bank of America Corp’s Merrill Lynch
said July 12.  
 Waste water  containing acidic copper seeped into the Ting
River on July 3, the company said in a filing to the Hong Kong
exchange on July 12. Copper production at Zijinshan mine
accounts for about 15 percent of its annual output of the metal,
according to Guotai.  
 “The board of directors decided not to make the accident
public on July 3 on the consideration that we didn’t want to
cause a panic to local residents without a clear understanding
of the leakage impact,” Zhao said. “We discovered the reason
with the assistance of local authorities on July 6 and after the
weekend, we made the announcement.”  
 The company, which closed its copper smelter at Zijinshan
after the accident, will improve emergency and contingency plans
to prevent future pollution, the Ministry of Environmental
Protection cited President  Luo Yingnan  as saying on its  website .  
 Resolve Problems  
 Local environmental agencies should improve follow-up
efforts to ensure problems are “timely resolved,” the ministry
said. Listed companies should publish an annual report on their
environmental impact, it also said.  
 The plant produces 12,800 metric tons of copper a year, and
will only reopen after checks by environmental authorities, Zhao
said. Products are normally sold on the spot market, he said.  
 About 1.89 million kilograms of fish in the Mianhuatan
reservoir were found dead or poisoned, Xinhua News Agency said
July 12. Zijin will likely have to pay a penalty, and
compensation for local fisheries may reach about 5 million yuan
($738,000), Zhao said yesterday.  
 The Shanghang county government couldn’t immediately
comment when reached by Bloomberg.  
 The government has issued new environmental standards for
commodity producers including steelmakers and lead plants in the
past year, threatening closures if they weren’t met. Thousands
of children were poisoned by lead, zinc and manganese plants in
Yunnan, Henan, Shaanxi and Hunan provinces last year.  
 -- Xiao Yu , with assistance by  Huang Zhe  in Beijing. Editor:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Matthew Oakley .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        