-- Zimbabwean Government Expects Kimberley Process to Approve Diamond Exports
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2010-07-14T07:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-14/zimbabwean-government-expects-kimberley-process-to-approve-diamond-exports.html

          
          
             Zimbabwe  expects the Kimberley
Process to certify diamonds produced at the disputed Marange
diamond fields, enabling the country to resume exports of the
gems, Mines Minister  Obert Mpofu  said.  
 Officials from the  Kimberley Process , created to end the
trade in diamonds mined that are used to fund conflict and war,
will meet members of the World Diamond Council in St. Petersburg
today and tomorrow to discuss Zimbabwe’s efforts to comply with
conditions set out by the Jerusalem-based Kimberley Process.  
 “We are always expecting the best out of such meetings,”
Mpofu said in an interview yesterday in Moscow. “We are hopeful
that the process that has been followed to achieve full
compliance is known by the members and the majority of the
members are keen that we resume our exports.”  
 The certification of diamonds from Marange would enable
Zimbabwe to resume sales of diamonds that were halted in May
because Kimberley Process rules prohibit the trade of diamonds
that it hasn’t certified. Zimbabwe currently has 6 million
carats of diamond stockpiles that are “waiting to get into the
market,” Mpofu said.  
 That compares with the 18 million carats produced annually
by Botswana, the world’s biggest producer.  
 The southern African country is accused of abuses at
Marange by New York-based  Human Rights Watch , which says the
military may have killed as many as 200 informal miners working
at the site. The campaign group called for a ban on Marange
diamonds unless Zimbabwe adheres to the Kimberley Process’s
standards.  
 The Kimberley Process, an initiative by governments,
industry and civil-society groups, runs a program to certify
diamonds as “conflict-free,” according to its website. Conflict
diamonds are the rough gems that have been traded by rebel
movements to finance wars against governments, including those
in Angola, Ivory Coast, the Democratic Republic of Congo and
Sierra Leone, it said.  
 The Zimbabwean government seized the Marange mine from
U.K.-based  African Consolidated Resources Plc  in 2006, without
giving reasons. African Consolidated is challenging the seizure
in Zimbabwe’s courts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 molesnikova@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        