-- El-Erian Says `Noisy' U.S. Economic Data Indicate Uncertainty: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-07-27T13:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/-noisy-economic-data-indicate-uncertain-outlook-for-growth-el-erian-says.html

          
          
             “Noisy” economic reports
underscore the “unusually uncertain” outlook cited by Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , according to Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s  Mohamed El-Erian .  
 Corporate earnings are backward-looking, and the key
economic issue is the U.S. labor market, El-Erian, Pimco’s chief
executive and co-chief investment officer, said in a radio
interview today with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Surveillance.  
 “The minute someone puts out a green light, and earnings
constituted a green light, you’ll see people rushing back into
risk markets,” El-Erian said. “The indicators that we look at
suggest that the economy continues to lose momentum. The key is
going to be ultimately is the economy creating enough jobs to
make people comfortable, to allow companies to invest?”  
 Bernanke said on July 21 in testimony to the Senate Banking
Committee that “the economic outlook remains unusually
uncertain.”  
 Average increases of 100,000 private-sector jobs a month
this year has been “insufficient to reduce the unemployment
rate materially,” Bernanke said. The Fed cut its growth outlook
as Europe’s fiscal crisis has led to “a broad-based withdrawal
from risk-taking in global financial markets,” he said.  
 U.S. stocks rose today as earnings at companies from DuPont
Co. to Lexmark International Inc. topped analyst estimates and
home prices increased more than  forecast .  
 Global Growth View  
 Global growth will be below average during the next three
to five years as developed economies struggle with mounting
deficits and increased regulation in the wake of the 2008
collapse of credit markets in what Pimco calls the “new
normal,” El-Erian has said.  
 The firm is advising investing more in emerging-market
nations such as Brazil and China, which should continue to
thrive because of stable levels of government debt and expanding
middle classes.  
 Brazil is in a “developmental breakout phase,” El-Erian
said in today’s interview.  
 Pimco, which has been synonymous with bonds for almost four
decades, in the past year has created an equity mutual fund and
a unit to invest in hedge, real estate and buyout funds. Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco has also started 10 exchange-
traded funds.  
 The $234 billion  Total Return Fund  managed by Pimco co-
founder  Bill Gross  returned 12.83 percent in the past year,
beating 64 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The one-month return of the world’s biggest mutual
fund is 1.32 percent, outpacing 72 percent of competitors. Pimco
is a unit of Munich-based insurer Allianz SE.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co. (PIMCO), speaks during the 2010 Milken Institute Global Conference in Los Angeles. Photographer: Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., discusses the outlook for the global economy and financial markets.
     El-Erian talks with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt on Bloomberg Radio's "Surveillance." (This report is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
