-- L'Oreal Heiress Tapes May Save Judicial Investigator
-- Heather Smith
-- 2010-07-28T15:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/l-oreal-heiress-tapes-may-rescue-french-independent-investigator-post.html

          
          
             The family feud involving Europe’s
richest woman and an unexpected French political scandal her
case triggered could save a centuries-old independent
investigator role from being axed by President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  
 Lawyers, judges and the public have questioned prosecutor
 Philippe Courroye ’s decision to open several preliminary
inquiries after hearing secret recordings of  L’Oreal SA  heiress
 Liliane Bettencourt  talking to advisers and friends, rather than
naming what is known as an investigating judge to handle it. The
move may indicate political pressure to stall the resulting
probes into alleged tax evasion and campaign-finance violations.  
 “The prosecutor is not independent because he gets his
orders from the Justice Minister, and his career is in the
minister’s hands,” said Matthieu Bonduelle, secretary general
of the Paris-based  Magistrates’ Union . “Everything leads to the
view that the government wants to control this affair. If not,
we would have an investigating judge.”  
 What began as a dispute between Bettencourt and her only
child, has spawned Courroye’s inquiries into tax evasion,
invasion of privacy and possible campaign-finance law breaches
tied to Sarkozy’s 2007 campaign. Because of the complexities,
critics say the case is one that needs an investigating judge.
Sarkozy wants to abolish that independent investigator position
in a broad overhaul of the justice system.  
 Authority, Independence  
 Only an investigating judge would have the authority and
independence necessary to deal with such a complex web of claims
about foreign bank accounts, political influence and ownership
of one of the Seychelles islands, said  Laurent Dubois , a
professor at the Paris’s Institute of Political Studies.  
 If one isn’t named, which may limit the scope of the
Bettencourt probes, it could make it harder for the President to
cut the long-standing post. Police plan to question Sarkozy’s
Labor Minister  Eric Woerth  this week as part of the
investigation, according to a spokeswoman for Courroye.  
 Justice Minister  Michele Alliot-Marie  “calls for calm”
regarding the handling of the Bettencourt investigations,
 Guillaume Didier , a spokesman for the Justice Ministry, said in
a telephone interview yesterday. Critics should “let justice do
its work,” he said.  
 ‘Scandalous’  
 “The Bettencourt affair is unfolding as if the
investigating judge was already eliminated,” said Alain
Mikowski, a Paris defense lawyer not involved in the case.
Courroye “can do absolutely anything he wants, no one knows
what is going on. Everything you read in the papers is leaked,
all that is illegal. It’s a secret process, there are no defense
rights. It’s scandalous.”  
 Investigating judges handle only 4 percent to 5 percent of
cases, usually involving finance or corruption. Unlike
prosecutors, investigating judges have the power to order
wiretaps, detentions and international warrants and don’t report
to anyone directly.  
 Prosecutors are bound to the  Justice Ministry  and have to
seek judge’s approvals to order searches or other investigation
steps.  
 “Most judges are shocked by the way in which things have
gone,” Bonduelle said. “And I’m not even talking about
citizens, who seem to be at the least surprised, but the judges
who know how these things work from the inside.”  
 Private Prosecution  
 Bettencourt’s daughter has pursued a private prosecution of
Francois-Marie Banier, the photographer who got over 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) in gifts from her mother, saying he
manipulated the 87-year-old heiress. The secret recordings of
Bettencourt’s conversations, made by a former butler, have
stalled the trial over her claims.  
 The home of Bettencourt’s daughter,  Francoise Bettencourt Meyers , in Neuilly-sur-Seine, on the outskirts of Paris, was
searched today by police, according to a spokeswoman for
Courroye’s office who declined to be identified.  
 Bettencourt Meyers’s lawyer,  Olivier Metzner , said the
police didn’t find anything “because there wasn’t anything to
find.”  
 Without an impartial person at the helm, it appears “those
in power don’t want to put light on this case,” Dubois said.  
 Following their summer recess, the French Parliament is
expected to take up Sarkozy’s proposed changes to the judicial
system, including eliminating investigating judges. Given the
heavy legislative calendar and scale of the proposed changes to
the legal code and system, the package may not be voted on
before the 2012 presidential election, Didier said.  
 Bettencourt Affair  
 “The Bettencourt affair is not going to change Nicolas
Sarkozy’s agenda,” Dubois said, though he may have a more
difficult time getting the package passed as judges and
political rivals “use the Bettencourt affair to show plainly
that French justice is not clear, is not independent.”  
 Bettencourt lives in a Paris suburb in the Hauts-de-Seine
region where Sarkozy began his political career. In the
recordings, Bettencourt’s financial adviser Patrice de Maistre
is heard assuring her a Sarkozy adviser told him Courroye would
close his inquiry into her daughter’s complaint over the gifts
without pressing charges. The prosecutor later did just that,
and the daughter instead pursued her private prosecution.  
 Courroye was named public prosecutor in Nanterre by Sarkozy
in 2007, against an oversight board’s advice.  
 “It’s very rare, and puts Mr. Courroye in a difficult
position, because now everyone thinks he was named there to
render service,” said Bonduelle. “So even if he is very
honest, one must note he was named, against the  Conseil
Superieur de la Magistrature’s  advice, to the area that is the
President’s fief.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Nicolas Sarkozy  
                       
                         
                           Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         France's president Nicolas Sarkozy. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     France's president Nicolas Sarkozy. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     France's labor minister Eric Woerth. Photographer: Fabrice Dimier/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
