-- Abu Dhabi Sorouh Reports 79% Drop in Second-Quarter Net, Missing Estimates
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-07-27T08:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/abu-dhabi-sorouh-reports-79-drop-in-second-quarter-net-missing-estimates.html

          
          
             Sorouh Real Estate PJSC , the builder
of Abu Dhabi’s Sun and Sky towers, said second-quarter profit
fell 79 percent, missing estimates, after land sales evaporated.  
 Net income declined to 30.8 million dirhams ($8.4 million)
from 148.3 million dirhams a year earlier, the company said in a
statement today. Analysts predicted a  profit  of 68 million
dirhams, according to three estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
 Revenue  dropped to 81 percent to 190 million dirhams.  
 Property prices in Abu Dhabi slid by more than 30 percent
from their peak in mid-2008, according to Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc. estimates. High mortgage rates remain the biggest obstacle
to a housing recovery in the emirate, Sorouh Managing Director
 Abubaker Seddiq Al Khouri  said in April.  
 “This a disappointing set of results based on what they
have done in the past,” said  Chet Riley , a Dubai-based analyst
at Nomura Holdings Inc. “Sorouh is in a better position than
some of their competitors since they have deliveries coming off
right now and you will see revenue being booked and cash flows
coming in the third and fourth quarter.”  
 Sorouh, Abu Dhabi’s second-biggest developer by market
value, will hand over keys to 400 to 500 homes in the next three
quarters and more than 1,000 units in the Sky and Sun towers
will be delivered by the second quarter of next year, Chief
Operating Officer Gurjit Singh said today on a conference call.  
 The developer is holding off on land sales until prices
rise, Chief Financial Officer  Richard Amos  said on the call. The
outlook for values is unlikely to change this year, so land
sales may be curbed “for the foreseeable future,” Riley said.  
 Homes, Offices  
 Sorouh and Aldar Properties PJSC, the emirates biggest
developer, are leading a construction drive in the United Arab
Emirates’ capital. Sorouh is building thousands of homes,
offices and retail spaces around canals and parks on Abu Dhabi’s
Al Reem and Lulu islands.  
 A 2.35 billion-dirham four-year loan facility will be used
to finance the construction of Shams Gate and other developments
in Abu Dhabi, the company said. Sorouh has 1.64 billion dirhams
of cash and won’t need any more funding for at least a year,
Amos said.  
 A key issue for Sorouh during the second half of 2010 will
be how much money it generates from completing apartments at the
Sun and Sky Towers, Riley said. Deliveries at the towers should
generate 600 million to 700 million dirhams, assuming a
relatively low default rate, he said.  
 Sorouh won government contracts valued at more than 2
billion dirhams to build 1,000 homes for United Arab Emirates
nationals, it said July 1.  
 Sorouh fell 2.2 percent to 1.77 dirhams in Abu Dhabi at
12:04 p.m. local time, giving the company a market value of 4.64
billion dirhams. The shares have declined 28 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net 
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        