-- African Union Asks United Nations to Suspend Arrest Warrants for al-Bashir
-- Fred Ojambo
-- 2010-07-27T17:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/african-union-asks-united-nations-to-suspend-arrest-warrants-for-al-bashir.html

          
          
             The African Union called for the
International Criminal Court’s arrest warrants against Sudanese
President  Umar al-Bashir  to be suspended while the continental
body carries out a probe into alleged genocide in Darfur.  
 The Hague-based court earlier this month charged al-Bashir
with three counts of genocide against the Fur, Masalit and
Zaghawa ethnic groups in the western Sudanese region of Darfur.
The court had issued a warrant against al-Bashir in March for
war crimes and crimes against humanity.  
 “We have decided to establish our own mechanism,”  AU 
President  Bingu wa Mutharika  told reporters today in Kampala at
the end of a three-day summit of African leaders. “We are asking
the United Nations to suspend for the period of 12 months” the
arrest warrants against al-Bashir, he said.  
 Al-Bashir has ruled Sudan since coming to power in a
military coup in 1989 and won election in April in the country’s
first multiparty vote in 24 years. As many as 300,000 people
have died, mainly through illness and starvation, and more than
2.7 million have been displaced in Darfur since February 2003,
according to the United Nations. Sudan says that the death toll
is about 10,000.  
 Militias  
 The violence began when rebels seeking a larger role in
Sudan’s political life and a bigger slice of the country’s
expanding oil wealth attacked the government. The authorities in
Khartoum, the capital, responded by deploying army units and
state-backed Arab militias known as the Janjaweed.  
 The AU questioned whether the United Nations-backed court
has the authority to prosecute al-Bashir. Sudan is not a
signatory to the 1998  Rome Statute  under which the court was
established.  
 “Let us look at the position of the ICC,” Mutharika said.
“Do they have a right to try Sudan which is not a member of the
ICC? I think it is something we have to look at.”  
 Although African countries don’t “condone impunity,” they
should carry out their own investigations other than relying on
reports by a body which is based outside the continent, he said.  
 Sudan is sub-Saharan Africa’s third-largest producer of
crude oil, pumping about 490,000 barrels a day, according to the
 BP Statistical Review of World Energy . Most of the fields are in
Southern Sudan, which is scheduled to vote in January in a
referendum to decide whether to become an independent nation.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fred Ojambo  in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        