-- Agency Mortgage-Bond Prices Climb to Record Highs, Defying Treasury Slump
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-07-27T22:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/agency-mortgage-bond-prices-climb-to-record-highs-defying-treasury-slump.html

          
          
             Mortgage securities with U.S.-backed
guarantees climbed to a record for a second day even as prices
of benchmark Treasuries fell, pushing yields on 10-year
government notes to the highest since July 15.  
 The average price of bonds guaranteed by government-
supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or federal agency Ginnie
Mae rose to 106.69 cents on the dollar, up from 106.21 cents on
June 30, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Mortgage
Master Index. Yields on Fannie Mae’s  current-coupon  securities
that guide loan rates rose, though less than Treasury rates.  
 Average prices have gained from 104.19 cents on March 31,
when the  Federal Reserve  ended its unprecedented purchases of
$1.25 trillion of the debt. The “stars are aligned” for the
$5.2 trillion of agency mortgage bonds because of the Fed’s
ownership, “exceptionally slow” prepayment speeds, the
market’s shrinkage and a “flight to safety” as a result of
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis,  Kevin Cavin , a strategist in
Chicago at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., said today in a report.  
 “Prices continue to defy gravity,” Cavin wrote. An
increase in 10-year Treasury yields above 3 percent “was a
significant technical threshold for many investors waiting for
an entry point to increase exposure to mortgages.”  
 Treasury yields rose 0.06 percentage point to 3.05 percent
today as the government conducted the first of three note
auctions this week totaling $104 billion.  
 The difference between yields on Fannie Mae’s current-coupon
securities, or those trading closest to face value, and 10-year
Treasuries narrowed about 0.01 percentage point to less than 0.6
percentage point, Bloomberg data show.  
 The spread reached about 0.59 percentage point on July 16,
matching a record low also touched on March 29, two days before
the Fed stopped buying the mortgage securities.  
 Investors should be careful in the mortgage-bond  market 
because if one of the forces supporting values “start to
recede,” the debt would probably underperform Treasuries, and
there’s “limited upside,” Cavin said in a telephone interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        