-- Thai Earnings Growth to Help Stocks Withstand Turmoil, Aberdeen Asset Says
-- Lilian Karunungan
-- 2010-07-27T09:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/thai-earnings-growth-to-help-stocks-withstand-turmoil-aberdeen-asset-says.html

          
          
             Thailand’s earnings growth may help
 stocks  withstand a renewal of political turmoil after a bomb
attack in the capital over the weekend, said Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc, which runs the best-performing Thai equity fund.  
 Bangkok Bank Pcl  and Kasikornbank Pcl, the nation’s biggest
and third-largest lenders, this month posted earnings that beat
analyst forecasts, while Siam Cement Pcl said June 30 the start
up of a new $1.2 billion petrochemical plant will help it
maintain profit growth this year.  
 “Company earnings have been good,”  Hugh Young , Singapore-
based managing director of Aberdeen Asset Management Asia, which
oversees $25 billion in the region and has been running a
dedicated Thai fund for more than two decades, said in an
interview in Singapore. “We ignore the noise and look into the
underlying businesses and sit with them.”  
 The benchmark  SET Index  climbed 1.6 percent to 853.68 at
the close in Bangkok, the biggest advance in Asia today. The
increase extended this year’s gain to 16 percent, the most among
the region’s 10 biggest stock markets after Indonesia, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The baht has risen 3.4 percent in 2010, the third-best
performer among Asia’s 10 most actively traded currencies, while
local-currency bonds advanced 5.5 percent this year, the second-
best among 10 local-currency debt indexes compiled by HSBC
Holdings Plc.  
 Earnings of companies on the SET are forecast to rise 52
percent next year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. They
slumped 24 percent in 2009, the data showed.  
 Explosion  
 Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  yesterday tightened
security in Bangkok, a city already under emergency rule, after
a bomb killed one person hours after polls closed in the first
by-election since anti-government protests. The blast occurred
late July 25 at a bus stop outside a supermarket in a district
occupied by demonstrators for 47 days in April and May. Ten
people were injured, the  Bangkok Emergency Medical Service  said.  
 The explosion marked the first violence since May 19, when
a military assault to end the protests sparked rioting and arson
attacks in the capital. At least 89 people were killed as
demonstrators urged Abhisit to step down.  
 Some companies may be more affected by the latest attack,
including those in the tourism-related industries, Young said.
The SET has climbed 12 percent since he said April 15 there’s
“upside” in Thai stocks amid the protests, while the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index lost 7.7 percent.  
 Thai Airways  
 Thai Airways International Pcl , the nation’s biggest
airline, may record a narrower loss from operations in the
second quarter, compared with the same period last year,
President  Piyasvasti Amranand  said on July 21, while Tourism
Minister  Chumpol Silapa-Archa  said July 6 that visitors are
returning after arrivals fell 12 percent in May.  
 Thailand’s financial markets were closed yesterday for a
holiday. The baht is also expected to be shielded from the
latest explosion, according to  Penn Nee Chow , an economist at
United Overseas Bank Ltd., Singapore’s second-biggest lender.  
 “There might be some nervousness, but generally the
fundamentals of Thailand are still strong given that the Bank of
Thailand recently upgraded its economic forecast,” said Chow,
who expects the currency to rise 1 percent to 31.90 by the end
of the year from yesterday’s close. “I don’t think there will
be much impact on the Thai baht.”  
 Economic Growth  
 Since the protests ended May 19, Thailand’s  SET Index  has
rallied 12 percent, and the baht climbed 0.5 percent.  
 The central bank said July 23 it expects the economy to
expand the most in at least seven years in 2010 as an export
rebound limited the impact from deadly political protests.  Gross
domestic product  may expand 6.5 percent to 7.5 percent, compared
with an April forecast for growth of 4.3 percent to 5.8 percent.  
 Exports climbed to a  record $18.04 billion  in June, helped
by the end of the riots and a recovery in the global economy.
Automakers  Ford Motor Co. , General Motors Co. and Mitsubishi
Motors Corp. all announced plans to build factories in Thailand
in the past month.  
 “Tourism companies have understandably been badly
affected, but manufacturing companies have been okay,” Young
said. “We’re very comfortable with the long-term prospects of
individual companies and we’re fully invested.”  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Kristine Aquino  in Singapore at 
 kaquino@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunugan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Abhisit Vejjajiva, Thailand's prime minister  
                       
                         
                           Dario Pignatelli/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Abhisit Vejjajiva, Thailand's prime minister, speaks at the Foreign Correspondents' Club of Thailand in Bangkok. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Abhisit Vejjajiva, Thailand's prime minister, speaks at the Foreign Correspondents' Club of Thailand in Bangkok. Photographer: Dario Pignatelli/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
