-- Air France Says Recovery in Business Travel, Freight Drove Earnings Boost
-- Laurence Frost
-- 2010-07-27T23:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/air-france-says-recovery-in-business-travel-freight-drove-earnings-boost.html

          
          
             Air France-KLM Group , Europe’s
biggest airline, said resurgent business travel and freight
traffic helped it return to operating profit in the fiscal first
quarter, excluding the effect of a volcanic eruption in Iceland.  
 Operating profit in the three months ended June 30 was 26
million euros ($34 million) before the 158 million-euro cost of
the eruption, versus a 496 million-euro year earlier loss, the
company said. Sales rose 11 percent to 5.72 billion euros.  
 Air France said a recovery in demand accelerated in the
period, with bookings also strong for the current quarter. The
Paris-based carrier cited its fuel bill and concern over the
economy for setting a “prudent” full-year goal of breaking
even at operating level, excluding costs from the volcano.  
 “I think their guidance is too pessimistic,” said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at Oddo Securities in Paris who predicts a
90 million-euro operating profit before the ash cloud’s impact,
driven by “strong” growth in sales and ticket prices.
“Forward bookings also seem pretty well oriented from now to
October, the major part of the season for cash generation,” he
said.  
 Air France-KLM closed down 0.1 percent at 10.96 euros in
Paris yesterday before the results were released and is little
changed this year, giving a market value of 3.29 billion euros.
 Shares  trading in the U.S. gained as much as 5.6 percent and
were up 1.7 percent as of 1:46 p.m. in New York.  
 Amadeus Gain  
 Air France-KLM posted quarterly  net income  of 736 million
euros, positive for the first time in almost two years, after a
1.03 billion-euro gain from its stake in the  Amadeus IT Holding
SA  flight-booking system. Analysts had  predicted  a figure of 403
million euros, the average of 11 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, following a year-earlier loss of 426 million euros.  
 Operating losses at the passenger business narrowed to 142
million euros from 338 million euros on an 8.8 percent gain in
revenue, and the division would have had a 3 million-euro profit
without the Eyjafjallajökull volcano’s April 14 eruption, which
grounded thousands of Air France flights, the company said.  
 The cargo unit, less affected by the disruption, posted
operating income of 11 million euros, compared with a year-
earlier loss of 197 million euros, as sales surged 42 percent.  
 While air traffic has rebounded since the economic crisis,
advancing 12 percent globally in May to climb above pre-
recession levels, the recovery is slowest in Europe, the
 International Air Transport Association  said on June 29.  
 Air France-KLM is the first of Europe’s major airlines to
report earnings this quarter.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG , the
region’s No. 2, is scheduled to announce results tomorrow,
followed by  British Airways Plc  on July 30.  
 European airlines suffered the most from a loss of revenue
after the Icelandic eruption, which closed most of the region’s
airspace for six days in April, halting 100,000 flights.  
 Madrid-based Amadeus raised 1.32 billion euros in April in
western Europe’s biggest initial public offering since 2008. Air
France and Lufthansa lowered their stakes as part of the
transaction, which also resulted in a one-time gain for the
French carrier as it wrote up the value of its holding.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        