-- Al-Qaeda Threatens All of Mideast, Central Asia, U.S. General Mattis Says
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2010-07-27T19:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/al-qaeda-threatens-all-of-mideast-central-asia-u-s-general-mattis-says.html

          
          
             Al-Qaeda and its affiliates pose a
threat throughout the Middle East and Central Asia and have
helped destabilize Yemen to the point where its government is
losing control, the Marine Corps general picked to head U.S.
forces in the region said today.  
 Countering “the enemy network” requires “an integrated
response that applies constant pressure,” General  James Mattis 
told the Senate Armed Services Committee at his nomination
hearing.  
 Mattis, who in 38 years has commanded every type of unit
from platoon to division, is head of the U.S. Joint Forces
Command that crafts doctrine and joint-service training for the
military and overseas readiness. He would succeed Army General
 David Petraeus , who assumed command earlier this month of U.S.
and NATO forces in Afghanistan.  
 Mattis, in written testimony, said the greatest threats
from al-Qaeda and associated terrorist groups “emanate from
Pakistan, Afghanistan and Yemen.”  
 Pakistan’s tribal areas “remain the greatest danger as
these are strategic footholds for al-Qaeda and its senior
leaders  Osama bin Laden  and  Ayman al-Zawahiri ,” he said.  
 “From Islamabad to New York, from east Africa to Europe,
this area hatched al-Qaeda’s murderous design,” Mattis said.
“Although al-Qaeda senior leaders are under considerably more
pressure in Pakistan than in previous years, the tribal areas of
Pakistan remain key to extremists efforts to rally Muslim
resistance worldwide.”  
 Mattis praised Pakistan for continuing “to endure great
sacrifices,” adding: “I am heartened by their efforts.”  
 Leaked Documents  
 President  Barack Obama ’s Afghanistan war strategy is under
new scrutiny after military documents published yesterday  on the
Wikileaks website  suggested Pakistan’s main intelligence agency,
the  Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate  (ISI), secretly
aided the Taliban and other militant groups the U.S. is trying
to defeat.  
 The documents, which date from 2004-2009, renewed questions
about Pakistan’s commitment to destroying the Taliban and al-
Qaeda, who take sanctuary in Pakistan’s ungoverned Northwest
territories along Afghanistan’s eastern border.  
 Public support is waning for the nine-year-old Afghan war,
the longest in U.S. history. Almost six in 10 respondents in a
Bloomberg National Poll conducted July 9-12 said Afghanistan is
a lost cause.  
 Also, 60 percent of Americans surveyed thought the
withdrawal of forces should start in July 2011 even if
Afghanistan remains unstable. The poll of 1,004 adults had a
margin of error of 3.1 percentage points.  
 Taliban ‘Resilient’  
 Mattis said the Taliban-dominated insurgency in Afghanistan
“has proven to be resilient” and “has shown an ability to
adapt and remains a threat in many populated areas.”  
 The relationship between the Taliban and al-Qaeda “isn’t
as close as it once was,” he said. “They still share similar
ideologies and they both want the expulsion of all foreign
forces from Afghanistan but for different reasons.”  
 Petraeus took over the Afghan command from General  Stanley McChrystal , who was removed by Obama last month for disparaging
comments about the administration made in a Rolling Stone
magazine interview.  
 Mattis commanded the 1st Marine Division during the 2003
invasion of Iraq. Mattis’s command would include oversight of
Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran and other Persian Gulf states
such as Oman and the United Arab Emirates. The Central Command
in the last year has increased its military assistance to the
Yemeni government in battling an offshoot of al-Qaeda.  
 Yemen at ‘Breaking Point’  
 Mattis, in answers to questions the committee submitted in
advance of today’s hearing, warned that challenges from this
group, al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, as well as local
insurgents and a deteriorating economy have stretched Yemen’s
government and its military “to the breaking point.”  
 To date, President  Ali Abdallah Saleh  “has managed these
crises through negotiation and by co-opting his opponents, but
there are signs his ability to exert control is waning,” Mattis
stated.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        