-- Reliance Delays Increasing Output at India Gas Field
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-07-27T11:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/ambani-s-reliance-delays-boosting-production-at-india-s-biggest-gas-field.html

          
          
               Reliance Industries Ltd .,  India ’s
biggest company by market value, expects to reach peak output at
the nation’s largest gas field as late as 2012, two people with
knowledge of the plan said, at least two years behind schedule.  
 Additional inspections lasting six months are needed at the
development before raising output by 33 percent to 80 million
cubic meters a day, the two people said, declining to be named
because they aren’t authorized to speak to the media. Supplies
from the Bay of Bengal area may peak by the end of 2011 or early
2012, they said.  
 “There are concerns about the reservoir and that is a
cause for worry as it could affect profitability,” said K.K.
Mital, a New Delhi-based fund manager with Globe Capital Market
Ltd. “Gas is the driving force for Reliance.”  
 Net income probably increased 33 percent last quarter after
Reliance doubled gas production as economic growth spurred
demand, according to a Bloomberg survey of 20 analysts. The
delay in increasing output may curb earnings growth needed to
fund billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani ’s plans to make overseas
acquisitions and to build  power plants  in India.  
 The head of Reliance’s oil and gas business, P.M.S. Prasad,
said in March 2009 that the field would reach maximum output by
the end of that year. Manoj Warrier, a Mumbai-based spokesman,
didn’t respond to an e-mail sent today requesting comment.  
 Reliance, which reports today, swung between gains and
losses and closed little changed at 1,053.50 rupees in Mumbai
while the benchmark Sensitive Index gained 0.3 percent. The
stock rose as much 0.8 percent earlier.  
 Earnings Estimate  
 The mean estimate of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News
was for net income to rise to 48.4 billion rupees ($1 billion)
in the three months ended June 30 from 36.4 billion rupees a
year earlier.  
 Energy explorers typically inspect reservoir levels to
determine output, check pressure and plan the type of wells
needed to extract the fuel, said Tony Regan, a Singapore-based
consultant with Tri-Zen International Ltd. who formerly worked
in the gas industry with Royal Dutch Shell Plc. Prices in India
are below international levels and Reliance could benefit from
the delay if prices are increased, Regan said.  
 Increasing gas output to the peak level would add $1.1
billion in revenue each year, based on the government-set price
of $4.20 per million British thermal units for selling the fuel
from the field operated by Reliance.  
   Gas Prices   
 U.K. natural gas for next-month delivery slipped 0.2 pence,
or 0.5 percent, to 39.65 pence a therm at 9 a.m. in  London ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s equal to $6.14 a
million British thermal units. A therm is 100,000 Btus.  
 At full capacity, the Reliance field would almost double
India’s gas production, which was 89.98 million cubic meters a
day in the year ended March 2009, according to the Ministry of
Petroleum. India,  Asia ’s third largest economy, is turning
increasingly to gas as it seeks to reduce dependence on higher-
polluting fossil fuels.  
 Reliance said in December it found more gas in the Krishna-
Godavari basin and is evaluating its commercial potential.  
 Chairman Ambani has stepped up acquisitions after ending a
family dispute with his estranged brother,  Anil Ambani , about
gas supply from the field. Reliance bought shale gas assets in
the U.S. from  Atlas Energy Inc . and Pioneer Natural Resources Co.
this year and plans to build power plants.  
 Reliance Industries bought $1.7 billion of shale-gas assets
in  Pennsylvania  in April from Atlas Energy and in June agreed to
pay $1.3 billion for a stake in a shale venture led by Pioneer
Natural Resources.  
 The brothers pledged to cooperate and work harmoniously
after India’s top court ordered them to rework a gas-supply
agreement that Anil Ambani said entitled his Reliance Natural
Resources Ltd. to buy the fuel from the field operated by
Reliance Industries at 44 percent below the government-set price.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        