-- Mantega Foresees Weaker Brazilian Currency on Large Current Account Gap
-- Arnaldo Galvao
-- 2010-07-27T19:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/mantega-foresees-weaker-brazilian-currency-on-large-current-account-gap.html

          
          
             Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the country’s real will weaken at some point
because of the current account deficit, comments that heightened
expectations that the government will limit the currency’s
appreciation.  
 “The current account gap should lead to a devaluation of
the real,” Mantega told reporters today in Brasilia. “The
current account is an important parameter, and we can’t ignore
that there is a deficit.”  
 The real’s two-month rally is spurring speculation that the
central bank will start buying dollars in the futures market for
the first time in 14 months in a bid to curb the currency’s
gain. Mantega said the central bank at any moment could start
selling contracts known as reverse currency swaps or could
decide to limit banks’ risk levels in trading foreign
currencies. While saying he favored buying dollars in the
futures market, he said it was up to the central bank.  
 Mantega’s comments were an “implicit threat” that the
government plans to limit the real’s gains,  Win Thin , senior
currency strategist at New York-based Brown Brothers Harriman,
said in an e-mailed note to clients.  
 ‘Daring the Market’  
 The real has gained 5 percent in the last six months, the
best performance against the dollar among the 16 most-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. In trading today, the real
weakened 0.4 percent to 1.7691 per dollar at 2:57 p.m. New York
time from 1.7624 yesterday. Earlier, the real rose as much as
0.5 percent to 1.7536.  
 “Brazil Finance Minister Mantega is pretty much daring the
market to take the real higher,” Thin said. “The 1.75 area is
likely to remain a formidable barrier.”  
 The central bank yesterday reported that Brazil’s  current
account  gap widened to $5.18 billion in June, the highest on
record for the month, on steeper profit remittances by
multinationals and increased spending by Brazilians abroad.  
 Mantega said the current account gap as a percentage of
gross domestic product should end 2010 at 2.3 percent. The
country in the past had higher current account deficits as a
percentage of GDP, the finance minister said. A weaker real
would boost exports and slow the pace of profit remittances, he
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net 
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at o
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        