-- Apartment Rentals Surge in U.S. on Home Foreclosures, Job Gains
-- Prashant Gopal
-- 2010-07-27T16:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/apartment-rentals-surge-in-u-s-as-foreclosures-rise-job-growth-resumes.html

          
          
             U.S.  apartment  landlords are seeing
a surge in rentals as mounting foreclosures reduce homeownership
and an improving job market for young adults encourages them to
find their own places to live.  
 The number of occupied apartments increased by 215,000 in
the 64 largest U.S. markets in the first half, according to MPF
Research. That’s almost double the units added in all of 2009
and the most since the firm began tracking the data in 1992. The
vacancy rate declined to 6.6 percent last month from 8.2 percent
in December.  
 “Demand is pretty stunningly strong in the first half,”
 Greg Willett , a vice president at the Carrollton, Texas-based
apartment-industry research firm, said in an interview.  
 Investors are betting the expanding ranks of renters will
lead to earnings increases next year of about 5 percent to 10
percent or more for apartment real estate investment trusts such
as  Equity Residential  and AvalonBay Communities Inc. UBS AG this
month raised its rating on  AvalonBay , Essex Property Trust Inc.
and Post Properties Inc. to “neutral” from “sell.”  
 The change signifies a “less bearish” view on apartments,
while acknowledging that “headwinds will remain,” according to
the July 7 report by New York-based analysts  Dustin Pizzo ,  Ross T. Nussbaum  and Derek Bower.  
 “The apartment REITs have priced in the most growth within
the broader REIT group and as such are most vulnerable if the
economy slows and job growth does not begin to come through in a
meaningful way,” they wrote.  
 The  Bloomberg REIT Apartment Index  has gained 28 percent
this year, double the 14 percent advance in the broader
Bloomberg REIT Index. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Homebuilding Index has fallen 3.1 percent.  
 Job Growth  
 The economy’s recovery from the worst recession since the
1930s has revived hiring enough to stimulate demand for
apartments. The growth hasn’t been enough to prevent more home
foreclosures, which lift rental demand, or to lead to a
sustained rebound in homebuying.  
 New jobs are the biggest driver of apartment occupancy.
Employers began hiring again in January, adding an average of
147,000 jobs a month through June, according to the Labor
Department. Employment for people 20 to 29 years old -- a key
group for landlords -- rose in May and June on a year-over-year
basis for the first time since the end of 2007.  
 While payroll growth has been modest compared with pre-
recession levels, it may be enough to have persuaded some
families sharing housing with relatives to get their own places,
according to  Mark Zandi , chief economist of Moody’s Analytics
Inc. in West Chester, Pennsylvania.  
 Bunking With Brother  
 “Given how hard it is for families to live together for
very long, they moved out as soon as they got a job or even
thought they could find one,” he said in an e-mail.  
 Mike Odenthal moved to the New York area in January from
San Diego in search of a communications job, sleeping on his
younger brother’s couch in the Heights neighborhood of Jersey
City, New Jersey. He moved out four months later after the
condominium went up for sale, eager to live on his own and not
wanting the sight of his possessions in the living room to
discourage potential buyers.  
 “I was tired of depending on my family for housing,” said
Odenthal, 27, who also stayed with his parents in Jersey City.
“I can’t imagine doing that forever, and all retiring to
Florida together.”  
 Odenthal found a roommate and moved July 1 to Manhattan’s
Upper East Side, paying $700 a month for his share of the rent.
The next morning he got an offer to work at a New York public
relations firm.  
 Foreclosures Persist  
 Finances for homeowners didn’t improve fast enough to
prevent more than 1.65 million foreclosure filings in the first
half, an increase of 8 percent from the same period in 2009,
RealtyTrac Inc., a data company in Irvine, California, said July
15. A record 269,962 U.S. homes were seized from delinquent
owners in the second quarter as lenders set a pace to claim more
than 1 million properties by the end of 2010.  
 The U.S. homeownership rate fell to 66.9 percent in the
second quarter, the lowest since 1999, the U.S. Census Bureau
said today. The rate peaked at 69.2 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2004.  
 “As homeownership continues to decline, people need to
live somewhere,” said  Henry Cisneros , who was President Bill
Clinton’s housing secretary from 1993 to 1997 and is executive
chairman of CityView, a real estate investment firm in Los
Angeles that focuses on urban projects including apartments.  
 Sales Decline  
 The rate of  new-home sales  last month was the second-lowest
on record, behind May, following the expiration of a government
tax credit for homebuyers, the Commerce Department reported
yesterday. Sales of previously owned homes fell 5.1 percent in
June, the National Association of Realtors said last week.  
 “The rental market will be robust for the next few
years,” Cisneros said.  
 Effective rents, or what tenants pay after concessions or
breaks from landlords, increased 1.4 percent in the biggest
markets in the first half, according to MPF Research. Rents may
rise 4 percent to 6 percent in both 2011 and 2012, compared with
a gain of about 2 percent this year, Willett said.  
 AvalonBay, which took a nine-month hiatus from construction
in 2009, said in April it had seven communities under
development and would increase rents for tenants renewing in the
second quarter. It raised its forecast last month for second-
quarter and 2010 earnings based on “improved operating
trends.”  
 The Arlington, Virginia-based company’s funds from
operations, a widely used measure of earnings, will rise 8
percent in 2011, according to the medial  estimate  of 20 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Equity Residential  
 Equity Residential, based in Chicago, has pushed rents up
by “high single digits” in all of its markets since January,
Chief Executive Officer  David Neithercut  said in a June 11
interview. Funds from operations in 2011 also will rise 8
percent, according to a survey of 22 analysts.  
 Landlords won’t be able to raise rents too aggressively
because unemployment remains high at 9.5 percent and declines in
home prices have made it no more expensive to buy than rent in
about half of larger markets around the nation, Willett said.  
 Buy Versus Rent  
 In Atlanta, the median home price has fallen 37 percent to
$110,100 from the peak in the third quarter of 2006, according
to the National Association of Realtors. Assuming a 10 percent
down payment and a 30-year mortgage at 5 percent, the monthly
principal and interest cost is $532. That compares with average
monthly rents of $774 in the city, Willett said.  
 Riverstone Residential Group  of Dallas, which manages
175,000 units in 30 markets around the country, reduced average
concessions to about a half-month’s rent from about two months a
year ago, CEO  Walt Smith  said. Vacancies have fallen below 5.9
percent in buildings that aren’t newly constructed, from 8.25
percent last year. Smith said he expects significant rent growth
by 2012 as supply tightens with so few new units being built.  
 “Landlords are cautiously testing the strength of the
submarket their property is in to see if the market will
withstand small rent increases,” Smith said. “In most markets,
they’ve been successful.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Prashant Gopal  in New York at 
 Pgopal2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An apartment building stands on Lexington Avenue in New York.  Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. apartment landlords are seeing a surge in rentals as mounting foreclosures reduce homeownership and an improving job market for young adults encourages them to find their own places to live. Bloomberg's Gigi Stone reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Karl Case, an economics professor at Wellesley College and co-creator of the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index, discusses the U.S. housing market.
     The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values increased 4.6 percent in May from the same month a year ago, marking the biggest year-over-year gain since August 2006, the group said today in New York. Case talks with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt on Bloomberg Radio's "Bloomberg Surveillance" (This report is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
