-- Diego Maradona's Reign as Argentina Coach Ends on Grondona Rift
-- Eliana Raszewski
-- 2010-07-28T22:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/maradona-s-contract-won-t-be-renewed-as-coach-for-argentina-national-team.html

          
          
             Diego Maradona  said he was lied to
by Argentine Football Association President  Julio Grondona  and
betrayed by the national team’s manager  Carlos Bilardo  before
his sacking yesterday as the side’s coach.  
 “Grondona lied to me, Bilardo betrayed me,” Maradona said
to reporters today on the outskirts of Buenos Aires. “All my
team and I were ready to continue.”  
 The association’s executive committee “unanimously
resolved” not to extend Maradona’s contract because he wasn’t
prepared to accept changes to his aides, committee member Rafael
Savino said last night.  
 Maradona, 49, said on Argentine television this week that
he wouldn’t continue in the post he took in late 2008 if the
association insisted on staff moves.  
 “I stand by all my people, from the masseuse to the
equipment man,” Maradona said today, reading from a prepared
statement. His staff included two doctors, two assistant coaches,
two physical trainers, a press officer and an equipment man.  
 Association spokesman Ernesto Cherquis Bialo didn’t return
a phone call from Bloomberg seeking comment.  
 Maradona, who led his country to its last World Cup title
in 1986 and the final four years later, took over the national
team in November 2008. He used more than 100 players, winning 18
and losing six of his  24 international games  in charge.  
 Quarterfinal Exit  
 Argentina lost six matches in 2009, the first time since
1919 that it had so many defeats in a calendar year. Maradona
didn’t oversee that year’s loss to Catalonia because he was
banned for a profanity-laced tirade toward journalists following
a World Cup qualifying game.  
 In South Africa last month, Maradona’s team exited at the
quarterfinal stage in a 4-0 defeat to Germany. It was
Argentina’s most lopsided World Cup loss in 36 years.  
 Argentina finished fifth at the tournament, according to
soccer governing body FIFA, its best result since losing in the
1990 final.  
 Sergio Batista , the coach of Argentina’s under-20 team,
will lead the senior squad in its next match, an Aug. 11
exhibition against Ireland. Batista played with Maradona at the
1986 World Cup and coached Argentina to the gold medal at the
2008 Beijing Olympics.  
 Bilardo , who coached Argentina in the 1986 and 1990 World
Cups, will continue in his position, Cherquis Bialo said
yesterday. Bilardo took the position when Maradona was named
coach in 2008. Last year, Bilardo told reporters he would quit
if Maradona left the national team.  
 Argentina is scheduled to host next year’s Copa America as
it seeks a first major trophy at the senior level since 1993.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Argentina's coach Diego Maradona reacts at the end of the 2010 World Cup quarter-final match Argentina vs. Germany on July 3, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Garcia/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
