-- Areva Will Hold Share Sale by Year-End, Sign Strategic Accord With EDF
-- Alan Katz
-- 2010-07-27T18:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/areva-will-hold-share-sale-by-year-end-sign-strategic-accord-with-edf.html

          
          
             Areva SA , the world’s largest maker
of nuclear reactors, will carry out a maximum 15 percent capital
increase this year and sign a strategic partnership with
 Electricite de France SA , the French government said.  
 The agreement with EDF won’t prevent either company from
working with other partners and may include EDF increasing its
stake in Areva, the government said in an e-mailed statement
today. The state, Areva’s main shareholder, will also examine
possible mining partnerships for the company.  
 Areva has held talks on the capital increase with
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. and the sovereign wealth funds
of Kuwait and Qatar as Chief Executive Officer  Anne Lauvergeon 
seeks funds for a 6.5 billion-euro ($8.4 billion) investment
plan.  
 The shares will be sold to the industrial and financial
investors with whom Areva has been holding discussions, the
French government said. The potential mining partnerships could
include exchanges of capital, the government said.  
 Standard & Poor’s cut Areva’s debt rating on June 28,
saying that its finances were being strained by construction
delays and cost overruns at a nuclear plant in Finland and that
profit could be hurt by a dispute with EDF over a nuclear fuel
enrichment plant.  
 Lost Tender  
 Tensions flared within the French nuclear industry after
Areva, Electricite de France SA, GDF Suez SA and Total SA lost a
tender in December to build four nuclear reactors in the United
Arab Emirates. Korea Electric Power Corp. emerged as the winning
bidder, prompting French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to commission
a  report  on the future of the industry from Francois Roussely,
former CEO of EDF.  
 That report, submitted last month, lists 15 recommendations
including setting EDF as the lead for “team France” and
creating a nuclear power government ministry. It also said that
Areva needed to complete the construction of a reactor it is
building in Finland.  
 The French company has had to make provisions of about 2.7
billion euros to cover delays at the first-of-its-kind reactor
after the project fell three years behind schedule. Customer
Teollisuuden Voima Oyj said it doubts the plant can be completed
by the most recent June 2012 deadline. Areva faces 1.4 billion
euros in claims from TVO for the construction delay, while Areva
is suing its Finnish customer for 1 billion euros.  
 Areva pledged in 2005 to build the so-called EPR reactor
for 3 billion euros and complete in 2009.  
 “The move to optimize the conception and construction will
be continued,” the government said of the EPR reactor, which is
also being built in Flamanville, France.  
 EDF already owns a 2.5 percent stake in Areva. About 4
percent of Areva trades on the Paris stock exchange as non-
voting investment certificates. They rose 2.15 euros, or 0.6
percent, to 340 euros today, giving the company a market value
of 12.1 billion euros.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Katz  in Paris at 
 akatz5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        