-- Argentina's Record Reserves Get Companies an Invite to Weekly Debt Sales
-- Drew Benson
-- 2010-07-27T22:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/argentina-s-record-reserves-get-companies-an-invite-to-weekly-debt-sales.html

          
          
             Argentina’s central bank sold debt
to companies for the first time in three years in a bid to curb
growth in the nation’s  money supply .  
 Companies were eligible to buy 150 million pesos ($38
million) in central bank notes, known as Lebacs, due in as long
as three months at an 800 million peso auction today after they
were given permission for the first time on July 16 to take part
in the auctions and bid alongside banks and brokerages.  
 Central bank President  Mercedes Marco  del Pont is seeking
to step up debt auctions to drain cash from the financial system
and curb inflation after dollar purchases pushed international
 reserves  to a record $51 billion, said  Carola Sandy , an
economist with Credit Suisse Group AG in New York.  
 “With all of the dollar buying to build reserves, the
monetary base is expanding quite quickly,” Sandy said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “They need more agents, other
than the banks, to buy the Lebacs.”  
 Foreign reserves  climbed 3.5 percent since June 30, heading
for the biggest monthly increase since November 2007, as the
central bank bought dollars after a record 55 million-ton
soybean harvest swelled exports. Argentina is the world’s
biggest exporter of soybean oil.  
 The dollar purchases helped spark a 25 percent jump in M1
 money supply , which excludes longer-term deposits and money
market funds, in the past 12 months to 168.3 billion pesos,
according to the central bank.  
 Inflation  
 Credit Suisse’s Sandy estimates annual inflation is running
at about 20 percent, almost double the government’s 11 percent
figure. Argentina’s  inflation data  have been questioned by
economists and politicians including Vice President  Julio Cobos 
since January 2007, when President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s  predecessor and husband,  Nestor Kirchner , began
changing personnel at the statistics institute. Economy Minister
 Amado Boudou  said in an April 14 interview that the government
inflation data is accurate.  
 Companies refrained from buying debt at the first auction
they were allowed to participate in last week, said a central
bank official who declined to be identified in accordance with
bank policy. Policy makers expect companies to step up their
participation in the auctions gradually, the official said.  
 The central bank sold a total of $2.2 billion pesos in
notes in this week’s auction, down from $3.1 billion pesos last
week, the institution said in an e-mailed statement. Lebacs due
in 91 days yielded 12.25 percent, the same as two weeks ago.  
 Yields on Argentina’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2015
slid eight basis points to 10.71 percent today, according to
Deutsche Bank AG prices. Warrants linked to economic growth rose
0.3 cent to 9.7 cents.  
 Default Swap  
 The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps dropped 19 basis points
yesterday to 826, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold  Argentine  dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries today fell 43 basis points to
664, according to JPMorgan. The gap is down from 846 on July 1.  
 The peso was little changed at 3.9323 per dollar. The
currency has dropped 28 percent since Kirchner took office in
May 2003, the worst performance among major emerging-market
currencies after Iceland’s Krona. Economists predict it will
weaken to 4.2 per dollar by year-end, according to the median of
14 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Badlar Rate  
 Reserves accumulated since Nestor Kirchner took office
seven years ago allowed the country to maintain a weaker peso
that bolsters growth, Marco del Pont said in a July 15
statement.  
 Argentine companies may seek to buy Lebacs because the
yields are above the benchmark  Badlar  lending rate, said  Noelia Lucini , a portfolio manager with Capital Markets Argentina in
Buenos Aires. The Badlar rate on deposits of over 1 million
pesos was 8.625 percent on July 23, the central bank said in a
report yesterday.  
 The weekly auctions will help the central bank limit
inflation, Sandy said. Consumer prices may rise 26 percent this
year -- the second fastest in the world after Venezuela -- from
15.3 percent in 2009, Buenos Aires-based company Ecolatina said
last month.  
 “If they want to slow inflation, they should use
contractionary monetary policy, but they don’t want to,” Sandy
said. “Less expansive policy is better than more expansive.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mercedes Marco del Pont, president of Argentina's Central Bank. Photographer: Juan Mabromata /AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
