-- Stocks Halt Rally, Oil, Copper Retreat; Dollar Strengthens
-- Rita Nazareth
-- 2010-07-27T20:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/asia-stocks-rise-yen-weakens-as-global-growth-outlook-improves-oil-gains.html

          
          
             Treasury two-year note yields rose
the most in more than a month after a $38 billion sale of the
securities, while most U.S. stocks fell as a drop in consumer
confidence overshadowed better-than-estimated earnings.  
 Two-year yields, which reached a  record low  last week,
jumped as much as six basis points to 0.64 percent. The  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index  slipped 0.1 percent to 1,113.84 at the 4 p.m.
close in New York as three stocks fell for every two that rose
on U.S. exchanges. Oil dropped from an 11-week high, while
copper slipped for the first day in seven.  
 Treasuries fell even as the sale drew a record low yield of
0.665 percent, below the 0.675 percent forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of seven of the Federal Reserve’s 18 primary
dealers.  Gains  in banks helped limit losses in U.S. equities
after UBS AG and Deutsche Bank AG posted better-than-estimated
earnings and regulators eased some proposed capital rules.  
 “People were waiting to see if asset allocations would
cause some to sell out of stocks and jump into bonds, but we
haven’t seen that yet,” said  Michael Franzese , managing
director and head of Treasury trading at Wunderlich Securities
in New York.  
 The two-year Treasury sale’s bid-to-cover ratio, which
gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 3.33, compared with an average of 3.18
at the past 10 auctions.  
 The 10-year Treasury yield rose five basis points to 3.05
percent and the 30-year yield jumped seven basis points to 4.09
percent.  
 Consumer Confidence  
 The S&P 500 erased an early advance after the Conference
Board’s confidence index fell to 50.4 from a revised 54.3 in
June, a sign that the lack of jobs may limit the economy’s
recovery. Retailers fell 1.9 percent as a group, the most among
24 industries, with Target Corp. and Home Depot Inc. slumping
1.4 percent each.  
 The S&P 500 has rebounded about 8.9 percent from a 10-month
low on July 2 amid optimism that second-quarter earnings reports
will bolster confidence in the economy. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  yesterday erased its decline for 2010 and today extended
its year-to-date advance to 1.1 percent, rising 12.26 points to
10,537.69 as DuPont Co. led gains following better-than-
estimated earnings.  
 About 82 percent of the 179 companies in the S&P 500 that
have reported second-quarter results since July 12 topped
average analyst estimates and earnings per share have climbed 60
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 ‘Mixed Bag’  
 “It’s a mixed bag,” said  Kevin Caron , a market strategist
at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Florham Park, New Jersey, which has
about $90 billion in client assets. “Consumer confidence
disappointed. It tells us that there are lots of challenges in
this recovery. On the other hand, you’ve got good corporate
numbers. However, when companies are this profitable it makes it
harder to envision them becoming more profitable.”  
 U.S. Steel Corp. retreated 6.5 percent following an
unexpected second-quarter loss after revaluing a $1.4 billion
loan made to a European unit.  
 The drop in the S&P 500 came even after home prices in 20
U.S. cities rose more than forecast in May from a year earlier
as a government tax credit temporarily underpinned sales. The
S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values increased 4.6 percent
from May 2009, the biggest year-over-year gain since August
2006, the group said today in New York.  
 ‘Green Light’  
 “Noisy” economic reports underscore the “unusually
uncertain” outlook cited by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , according to Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Mohamed El-Erian . Corporate earnings are backward-looking, and
the key economic issue is the U.S. labor market, Pimco’s chief
executive and co-chief investment officer, said in a radio
interview today with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Surveillance.  
 “The minute someone puts out a green light, and earnings
constituted a green light, you’ll see people rushing back into
risk markets,” El-Erian said. “The indicators that we look at
suggest that the economy continues to lose momentum. The key is
going to be ultimately: is the economy creating enough jobs to
make people comfortable, to allow companies to invest?”  
 The  MSCI World Index  of stocks in 24 developed markets rose
0.1 percent, trimming an earlier rally of as much as 0.7
percent.  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.4 percent, led by a 4.7
percent rally in banks. The  VStoxx Index , which gauges the cost
of protecting against declines in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, slid
1.5 percent to 26.4, the lowest level in three months. Deutsche
Bank, Germany’s largest lender, rallied 4.5 percent in Frankfurt
and UBS surged 11 percent in Zurich.  
 Default Swaps  
 The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of default swaps for
banks and insurers slipped 6.5 basis points to 111, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Default swaps decline as the perception of
credit quality improves.  
 The Basel Committee, which represents central banks and
regulators in 27 nations and sets capital standards for banks
worldwide, buoyed investors’ confidence after saying lenders can
count deferred tax assets and minority stakes in financial firms
as capital. The committee’s new proposals came three days after
all except for seven of Europe’s 91 biggest banks passed stress
tests.  
 BP Plc slipped 2.6 percent in London as the company
replaced Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  and pledged to
speed asset sales to as much as $30 billion after the Gulf of
Mexico oil spill led to a record loss.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed for a sixth day,
gaining 0.5 percent. Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index increased
1.4 percent to a record high after the central bank reduced its
year-end inflation forecast and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  urged European Union nations to drop their objections to
Turkey’s admission to the 27-nation bloc.  
 Forint Rallies  
 Hungary’s forint strengthened 1.3 percent against the euro
after the government sold 50 billion forint ($228 million) of
three-month Treasury bills, 5 billion forint more than planned.
India’s rupee strengthened 0.8 percent against the dollar after
policy makers raised the key interest rate more than economists
estimated.  
 The Swiss franc depreciated 1.2 percent to 1.3784 per euro,
the weakest level since June 21, and dropped 1.1 percent against
the dollar to 1.0602. The yen declined against all of its most
actively traded peers, losing more than 1.2 percent against the
euro and dollar.  
 Crude oil for September delivery slumped 1.9 percent, the
most in more than three weeks, to $77.50 a barrel as the drop in
consumer confidence signaled the slowing economic recovery may
limit energy demand. Copper lost 0.5 percent to $3.2065 a pound
in New York after rallying 10 percent over the previous six
sessions.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Most stocks fell, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declining for the first time in four days, as retailers slid after consumer confidence retreated to a five-month low. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., discusses the outlook for the global economy and financial markets.
     El-Erian talks with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt on Bloomberg Radio's "Surveillance." (This report is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his investment strategy for Chinese banks. 
     Chinese banks may struggle to recoup about 23 percent of the 7.7 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) they’ve lent to finance local government infrastructure projects, according to a person with knowledge of data collected by the nation’s regulator. About half of all loans need to be serviced by secondary sources including guarantors because the ventures can’t generate sufficient revenue, the person said, declining to be identified because the information is confidential. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
