-- Asian Currencies Gain on Global Recovery Signs; Rupee Climbs on Rate Rise
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-07-27T09:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/asian-currencies-gain-on-global-recovery-signs-rupee-climbs-on-rate-rise.html

          
          
             Asian currencies rose, led by the
South Korean won and the Indian rupee, on signs the global
economic recovery remains intact and investment flows into the
region are increasing.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index  climbed after
consumer confidence in South Korea this month stayed at the
highest level since January and Indonesia’s government forecast
economic growth will pick up in the second half of the year.
India’s rupee climbed the most in five weeks as the central bank
raised a benchmark interest rate more than economists forecast.  
 “The overall sentiment has again shifted to taking on more
risk,” said  Joey Cuyegkeng , an economist in Manila at ING Groep
NV, the Netherland’s largest financial services company.
“Concern over a significant slowdown in global growth was
overdone.”  
 The won strengthened 0.8 percent to close at 1,181.43 per
dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
India’s rupee appreciated 0.7 percent to 46.73 per dollar as of
2:35 p.m. in Mumbai, while the Philippine peso gained 0.3
percent to 45.97.  
 The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
active currencies excluding the yen, and the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index of shares both rose to one-month highs. Overseas investors
have this month pumped about $6 billion into stocks in India,
South Korea and Taiwan, exchange data show.  
 Intervention Risk  
 The won reached a one-month high after the Bank of Korea
said that this month’s Consumer Confidence Index was at 112,
unchanged from June and the highest level since January. A
number exceeding 100 indicates optimists outnumber pessimists.
Foreigners bought more South Korean shares than they sold for a
fifth day, according to stock-exchange data.  
 “Demand for higher-yielding currencies is strengthening,”
said Ha Jun Woo, a foreign-exchange trader at Daegu Bank in
Seoul. “Still, intervention fears are pressuring the won, and
it looks like the authorities will try to limit appreciation.”  
 South Korea’s economy expanded 1.5 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three months, faster than the 1.3
percent growth forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists,
data yesterday showed. Strengthening demand prompted the central
bank to lift its benchmark  interest rate  this month to 2.25
percent, from a record-low 2 percent, to keep inflation in check.  
 Rate Decision  
 India’s rupee advanced after the central bank boosted the
reverse repurchase rate by 0.5 percentage point to 4.5 percent,
more than the 0.25 point increase forecast by all 20 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 The nation’s wholesale-price inflation rate has stayed
above 10 percent since February, and the opposition plans to
raise the issue in parliament. “Policy actions become a
necessity” to anchor inflation expectations, the central bank
said in a statement yesterday.  
 “Inflation has become the dominant political and economic
issue in India,” said  Jay Shankar , chief economist at Religare
Capital Markets Ltd. in Mumbai. “The RBI needs to continue to
be aggressive with rate hikes to slow inflation.”  
 Indonesia’s rupiah strengthened for a fourth day, its
longest winning streak in more than a month. Southeast Asia’s
biggest economy likely grew 5.8 percent in the six months ended
June and may expand 6 percent in the second half, the Finance
Ministry said in a statement yesterday. The government also
forecast its budget deficit will narrow to 1.5 percent of gross
domestic product this year from 1.6 percent in 2009.  
 “Investor appetite for Indonesian assets is increasing as
sentiment is positive” on the domestic economy, said  Muhammad Fauzi Halim , a foreign-exchange trader at PT Bank Resona
Perdania in Jakarta.  
 The Jakarta Composite Index of shares has climbed almost 20
percent so far this year as overseas investors pumped $1.2
billion into the nation’s stocks as of yesterday. The rupiah
appreciated 0.2 percent to 9,014 per dollar.  
 Aquino’s Address  
 Malaysia’s ringgit gained as the FTSE  Bursa Malaysia KLCI 
advanced to a two-year high. Foreign direct investment in the
first three months of the year totaled 5.06 billion ringgit
($1.6 billion), compared with 5.66 billion in the whole of 2009,
Minister of International Trade and Industry Mustapa Mohamed
said late yesterday.  
 “Malaysia’s growth story is well recognized, and the
broader ringgit sentiment continues to move along those lines,”
said  Thio Chin Loo , a senior currency analyst at BNP Paribas SA
in Singapore.  
 The currency advanced 0.4 percent to 3.1865 per dollar.  
 Philippine Deficit  
 The peso rose to a one-month high after President Benigno
Aquino said in his State of the Nation address yesterday he
would tap private investors to build infrastructure, easing
concern that the nation’s budget deficit will widen further.  
 The  deficit  in the first six months of the year was 196.7
billion pesos ($4.3 billion), exceeding the previous
government’s estimate for a gap of 178.5 billion pesos.  
 “People remain optimistic that the Aquino administration
will be able to resolve some of the fiscal problems it has
inherited,” said Cuyegkeng at ING.  
 Elsewhere, Singapore’s dollar rose 0.2 percent to S$1.3619,
Taiwan’s dollar advanced 0.1 percent to NT$32.090 and the Thai
baht appreciated 0.1 percent to 32.19.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        