-- AstraZeneca's Brilinta May Be Cleared By U.S. FDA
-- Trista Kelley
-- 2010-07-27T17:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/astrazeneca-gains-after-fda-panel-says-brilinta-may-be-cleared-for-sale.html

          
          
             AstraZeneca Plc  gained in London
trading after U.S. regulatory staff said the blood-thinner
Brilinta is approvable if the drugmaker undertakes a study on
its effectiveness in Americans once it’s marketed.  
 The shares rose 63 pence, or 2 percent, to close at 3,189
pence at 4:30 p.m. That gives the U.K.’s second-largest
drugmaker a market value of 45.9 billion pounds ($71.4 billion).  
 AstraZeneca needs to replenish revenue over the next four
years as patents expire on top-sellers Nexium for heartburn and
the antipsychotic Seroquel, medicines that  generated  a combined
$9.83 billion in 2009. The new study, recommended yesterday by
U.S. Food and Drug Administration advisers, would seek to
establish the treatment’s long-term benefit after results from
testing in North America fell short of those seen elsewhere.
Brilinta  sales  could reach $1.47 billion by 2016, according to
the average estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 “The documents read more favorably in support of approval
than we had expected, including around the key issue of U.S.
patients,”  Brian Bourdot , a Barclays Capital analyst in London,
said in a report to investors today.  
 The drug would compete with  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  and
Sanofi-Aventis SA’s Plavix, the world’s second-biggest drug, and
Effient, sold by  Eli Lilly & Co.  All three are pills designed to
prevent platelets in the blood from clumping together to form
clots, which can cause heart attacks and strokes.  
 Panel Meeting  
 FDA  advisers  meet tomorrow to weigh whether to support
Brilinta’s approval and the regulator is scheduled to decide by
Sept. 19. The agency usually follows the recommendations of its
advisory committees, though it isn’t required to do so.  
 If approved, Brilinta will “take substantial market
share” because of its superior efficacy and health-care
economics compared with Plavix, Bourdot said. That could push
Brilinta’s yearly sales to more than $4 billion after the U.S.
patent on Plavix expires in 2011, he said.  
 Results from AstraZeneca’s key company-funded study called
Plato indicated that Brilinta, while generally more effective
than Plavix, seemed to be worse than the other drug for study
participants in the U.S. and Canada. AstraZeneca has suggested
that higher  aspirin  use in the U.S., compared with other regions
where Brilinta was tested, may have contributed to the
unexpected outcome.  
 Delayed Onset  
 FDA reviewers examined this issue and determined that the
timing of dosing in the U.S. and a potential delayed onset of
Brilinta, which is also known as ticagrelor, may explain the
discrepancy better than use of aspirin.  
 “The Office of Clinical Pharmacology has reviewed the
submission and cannot resolve the differential effectiveness of
ticagrelor in U.S. and non-U.S. sites,” FDA staff said in their
report. “Given the overall results, the Office recommends
approval of ticagrelor with a study post-approval aimed to
reconcile the findings from the U.S. region.”  
 In Plato, 18,624 patients got Brilinta or Plavix for a year
after being treated for a heart attack or worsening chest pain.
With Brilinta, 9.8 percent of patients had a heart attack,
stroke or died from cardiovascular disease. That compared with
11.7 percent for those on Plavix, according to data published in
August 2009. Death from all causes was 4.5 percent with Brilinta
and 5.9 percent with Plavix.  
 Bleeding Risk  
 Life-threatening bleeding occurred in 11.6 percent of
Brilinta patients and 11.2 percent on Plavix, though the
difference wasn’t statistically significant.  
 Plavix and Effient are both taken daily and remain
effective for one week after treatment is halted. Brilinta,
taken twice daily, wears off more quickly. All three pills
increase bleeding risk with surgery.  
 “In all these drugs there’s a tradeoff in effectiveness
and bleeding,” said  David Pearle , a cardiologist at Georgetown
University Hospital in Washington, D.C., in a July 21 telephone
interview. “Brilinta it turns out may be a little bit closer to
the sweet spot than either Plavix or Effient. In other words, we
want just enough platelet blockage to be effective but no more
bleeding than is absolutely necessary.”  
 The Plato trial also pitted Brilinta primarily against a
300-milligram dose of  Plavix , half the  standard dose  used in the
U.S. since 2007, said  Amit Roy , an analyst with Nomura
International Plc in London, in a July 15 research report.  
 No Major Impact  
 “We do not expect a major impact of Brilinta on current
medical practice,” Roy said. Brilinta may struggle to gain
market share, as occurred with Effient, also tested against a
300-milligram Plavix dose, Roy said.  
 Plavix, chemically known as clopidogrel, had $9.8 billion
in sales last year for New York-based Bristol-Myers and its
marketing partner, Sanofi of Paris. Effient, approved in July
2009, had sales of $27 million last year for Lilly, based in
Indianapolis, and its marketing partner  Daiichi Sankyo Co.  of
Tokyo. The pill, also called prasugrel, was cleared with a
warning of bleeding risk.  
 Lipitor, made by New York-based Pfizer Inc., is the world’s
best-selling drug with 2009  revenue  of $11.4 billion.
 GlaxoSmithKline  Plc is the biggest U.K. drugmaker and, like
AstraZeneca, is based in London.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .
 Trista Kelley  in London at 
 Tkelley2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       AstraZeneca Research and Development Lab  
                       
                         
                           AstraZeneca 
                         
                         Medicine chemistry at AstraZeneca's Research and Development Lab Charnwood, UK. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Medicine chemistry at AstraZeneca's Research and Development Lab Charnwood, UK. Source: AstraZeneca  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
