-- Latvia's Personal Bankruptcy Law Won't Impact Nordic Lenders, Nordea Says
-- Aaron Eglitis
-- 2010-07-27T10:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/latvia-s-personal-bankruptcy-law-won-t-impact-nordic-lenders-nordea-says.html

          
          
             A Latvian personal bankruptcy law
passed by parliament yesterday won’t hurt Nordic lenders because
provisions set aside for bad loans will cover the impact of the
bill, according to Nordea Bank AB.  
 Latvia’s 100-seat legislature voted yesterday to pass the
law, which will require lenders to forgive debt for private
borrowers declared bankrupt after a maximum of three and a half
years.  
 Loans late by more than 90 days in Latvia reached 19
percent of the total in May, according to the country’s banking
regulator. Borrowers have struggled to service their debt after
a real estate-fueled economic boom turned to bust and the
country’s  economy  contracted 18 percent last year.  
 “We do not expect the law to have any significant impact
on the Nordic Banks” because they have already taken large
provisions in the Baltics,  Maths Liljedahl  and  Pawel Wyszynski ,
Sweden-based analysts at Nordea, said in an e-mailed note.
“Also, the banks themselves have taken part in establishing new
rules.”  
 The Baltic state’s government was forced to turn to a group
led by the  International Monetary Fund  and the European
Commission for a 7.5 billion-euro ($9.7 billion) loan in 2008
after Latvia’s second-biggest bank collapsed.  Unemployment  rose
to 20.4 percent in the first quarter, the highest in at least
eight years, a labor-force survey released on May 14 showed.  
 Latvia’s banking sector is dominated by Nordic lenders led
by  Swedbank AB ,  SEB AB ,  Nordea AB  and DnB Nord AS, which
accounted for about 64 percent of total lending in the first
quarter, according to the  Association of Latvian Commercial
Banks .  
 ‘Obviously Bad News’  
 Still, the legislation is “obviously bad news and quite
negative for the Latvian banking sector,” said  Lars Christensen ,
chief emerging markets analyst at Danske Bank A/S, in an e-
mailed note today. “It should be noted that overdue loans in
Latvia by the end of June rose to 28.6 percent of all loans. The
credit crisis is hence far from over in Latvia.”  
 The law allows borrowers declared bankrupt to write off
their debt after two years if they repay 35 percent of what they
owe. A debtor who can repay 50 percent of what he owes is
entitled to have his debt written off after one year.  
 The bill is due to take effect on Nov. 1. The legislation
previously adopted by parliament, which was returned by
President  Valdis Zatlers , would have allowed debt to be forgiven
by paying 30 percent of the debtor’s income for two years.
Zatlers has yet to sign the law.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        