-- Australia's Wheat Production May Expand on La Nina, AgResource Says
-- Wendy Pugh
-- 2010-07-27T03:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/australian-wheat-output-may-expand-as-la-nina-boosts-crop-agresource-says.html

          
          
             Wheat production in Australia, the
fourth-largest shipper, may expand as crops benefit from
rainfall in the country’s west and the development of the La
Nina weather pattern, according to AgResource Co.  
 Production from the next harvest may climb as high as 24.5
million metric tons, from a current forecast of 23.1 million, if
there’s favorable weather for the rest of the season,  Dan Basse ,
president of the Chicago-based agricultural researcher, told a
conference in Melbourne, Australia today.  
 Wheat prices on the Chicago Board of Trade may range
between lows of $5.25 to $5.50 a bushel and highs of $6.25 to
$6.50 for the remainder of the year, assuming there are no
significant problems with crops in Australia and Argentina,
Basse said. The contract for September delivery traded at $5.835
a bushel at 11:20 a.m. in Singapore.  
 “We are quite optimistic with the recent rains in Western
Australia that this wheat crop could be rather special,” Basse
said in an interview. Exports from the nation could be 15.5
million to 16 million tons, he said. The USDA forecast 2009-2010
exports at 14.5 million tons.  
 Output for the 2009-2010 season was 22.5 million tons,
according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, while the
Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Research Economics
estimated the harvest at 21.7 million tons.  
 Australia’s eastern states may benefit from the development
of La Nina, Basse said. The weather pattern, which typically
brings more rainfall to the region, was “highly likely” to be
in its early stages, the Bureau of Meteorology said on its
 website  last week.  
 “With La Nina building, there is a strong correlation
between large Australian wheat crops and good rainfall, at least
during the months of August and September,” Basse said.  
 La Nina  
 La Nina is a cooling of the equatorial Pacific Ocean that
occurs on average every three to five years and lasts nine to 12
months, according to the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration.  
 National Australia Bank Ltd. today forecast Australia’s
wheat crop at 22.3 million tons because of favorable soil
moisture conditions in the country’s east.  
 The biggest wheat shippers in the 2009-2010 year were the
U.S., Canada, Russia, Australia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan, U.S.
Department of Agriculture  data  show.  
 Wheat production from former Soviet Union countries had
declined to 92 million tons, about 9 million tons lower than
current USDA estimates, Basse said. Exports from the region may
be 27 million tons, he said.  
 “There still may be opportunities for some strength in the
wheat market going forward,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        