-- Australian Dollar Drops After Second-Quarter Inflation Unexpectedly Slowed
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-07-28T15:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/australian-dollar-ends-four-day-gain-versus-yen-before-inflation-figures.html

          
          
             The Australian dollar fell against
all of its most-traded counterparts as consumer prices increased
at a slower pace than economists forecast, raising speculation
that the central bank will keep borrowing costs unchanged.  
 New Zealand’s currency dropped from a six-month high as a
private report before tomorrow’s decision on borrowing costs
showed business confidence declined in July. The Aussie slid the
most in more than a week against the greenback as swaps traders
cut to zero the likelihood Australia’s central bank will
increase its target lending rate when policy makers meet Aug. 3.  
 “There’s very little pressure now on the Reserve Bank of
Australia to raise next week, though rate rises are still
possible later in the year,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency
strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney.  
 The Aussie slid 1 percent to 89.32 U.S. cents at 11:37 a.m.
in New York, from 90.24 cents yesterday, when it reached 90.69
cents, the highest level since May 10. It earlier dropped 1.3
percent to 89.10 cents, the most on an intraday basis since July
16. New Zealand’s dollar declined 0.9 percent to 72.68 U.S.
cents, from 73.33 cents yesterday, when it reached 73.97, the
highest since Jan. 19.  
 Australia’s  consumer price index  rose 0.6 percent in the
second quarter, after increasing 0.9 percent in the previous
three months, the Bureau of Statistics said today. The median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a gain
of 1 percent. Prices rose 3.1 percent from a year earlier.  
 Aussie Inflation  
 Policy makers in Australia have signaled they are
monitoring  inflation  as they consider whether to raise borrowing
costs for the first time in three months.  
 Swaps traders erased bets for an increase in the central
bank’s 4.5 percent target lending rate, down from 27 percent
odds yesterday, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG  index .  
 New Zealand will probably raise its benchmark interest rate
for a second month to control inflation in an economy driven by
international demand.  
 Central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  will increase the
official cash rate by a quarter-point to 3 percent at 9 a.m. in
Wellington tomorrow, according to all 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  
 A net 32.4 percent of New Zealand companies surveyed expect
sales and profits will increase over the next 12 months, down
from 38.5 percent in June, according to a survey by ANZ National
Bank Ltd. released in Wellington today. The net figure subtracts
the number of pessimists from the number of optimists.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        