-- Australia's ANZ, MBK Are Said to Hold Off on Bids for Korea Exchange Bank
-- Seonjin Cha
-- 2010-07-27T05:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/australia-s-anz-mbk-are-said-to-hold-off-on-bids-for-korea-exchange-bank.html

          
          
             Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd.  and  MBK Partners Ltd.  didn’t submit bids for Korea
Exchange Bank ahead of yesterday’s deadline, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  
 Korea Exchange Bank  had sought binding offers by July 26,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the sale
process is private. The Seoul-based bank, controlled by Lone
Star Funds, will consider extending the deadline, one of the
people said. ANZ and buyout firm MBK are the main contenders to
acquire Lone Star’s 51 percent stake, they said.  
 ANZ and Seoul-based MBK are still trying to value Korea
Exchange and are concerned about making binding bids amid
intense competition in the Korean banking industry and other
potential takeover targets, including  Woori Finance Holdings Co. ,
said the people. ANZ said in April it was mulling a bid for the
stake, worth $3.4 billion based on today’s price.  
 “Given Korea Exchange isn’t a leading bank on measures
including assets and market share, it doesn’t provide much of an
advantage to foreign banks unless they’re desperate to secure a
foothold in the Korean market,” said  Hwang Seok Kyu , an analyst
at Kyobo Securities Co. in Seoul.  
 Lone Star, the Dallas, Texas-based buyout fund controlled
by  John Grayken , has tried for four years to sell its holding in
Korea Exchange as regulators examined the circumstances of its
investment in the lender.  
 Paul Edwards , a spokesman for Melbourne-based ANZ, declined
to comment, as did  Kim Sun Gyu  at Korea Exchange Bank.  Michael Kim , who runs MBK, which manages about $3.7 billion in assets,
declined to comment.  
 Premium Price  
 Melbourne-based ANZ hasn’t yet decided whether they will
proceed with a bid, while MBK, based in Seoul, is likely to make
an offer this month, the people said.  
 “Looking at its current price-to-book value ratio, it’s a
bit higher than its Korean peers,” Kyobo’s Hwang said of Korea
Exchange. “I’m not sure who’d pay a premium for KEB.”  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its 12-month stock price estimate
on Korea Exchange’s to 13,500 won from 18,500 won and cut
rating to “neutral” from “overweight” in a report dated
yesterday. Analysts  Scott YH Seo  and  Jaehee Kim  said the sale of
Korea Exchange is “unlikely to be completed at least in the
short term.”  
 The South Korean government will announce a plan for
privatizing Woori Finance on July 30, which may lure potential
bidders away from Korea Exchange, the JPMorgan analysts said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        