-- Hayward's Resignation Inevitable After BP Spill Undermined Safety Pledge
-- Brian Swint
-- 2010-07-27T07:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/hayward-s-resignation-inevitable-after-bp-spill-undermined-safety-pledge.html

          
          
             Tony Hayward ’s resignation became
inevitable after the worst oil spill in U.S. history jeopardized
 BP Plc’s  independence and wiped 45 billion pounds ($70 billion)
off the company’s value.  
 A geologist who joined BP in 1982, Hayward will be replaced
as chief executive officer by U.S.-born  Robert Dudley , the
company said today. Dudley, the former head of BP’s Russian unit
and in charge of the Gulf of Mexico cleanup, will take the helm
on Oct. 1.  
 Hayward, 53, had faced rising public anger and attacks from
lawmakers over his handling of the leak, triggered by the April
20 explosion on the Deepwater Horizon rig, which killed 11
workers. A series of public relations blunders in which he
played down the impact of the spill as “relatively tiny” and
said he wanted his “life back” did little to restore his
reputation.  
 “This is a good oil man who’s fallen on the PR hurdle,
rather than a bad oil man who’s being paid for failure,” said
 Nick McGregor , an investment manager at Redmayne-Bentley
Stockbrokers in London.  
 After taking over from  John Browne  in 2007, Hayward pledged
a “laser like focus” on safety in the wake of a number of
accidents, including a deadly 2005 explosion at a Texas City
refinery. Before the leak, he oversaw a 16 percent  gain  in BP’s
shares and new projects that saw the company overtake  Exxon
Mobil Corp.  in terms of output for the same time.  
 At the height of the crisis in June, investors drove BP’s
share price down to a 14-year low and bondholders priced in more
than 40 percent odds of bankruptcy as the company’s image
deteriorated and costs mounted. The company’s plunge prompted
speculation that it may become a takeover target.  
 ‘Hated and Clueless’  
 The New York Daily News said Hayward was “the most hated
-- and clueless -- man in America.” U.S. President Barack Obama
said he would have fired Hayward, while White House Chief of
Staff  Rahm Emanuel  said on ABC in June that “Tony Hayward isn’t
going to have a second career in PR consulting.”  
 Under pressure from the U.S., the company set up a $20
billion fund to pay for the cleanup and provide money for people
hurt by the disaster. BP also canceled three quarters of
dividend and pledged to sell $10 billion in assets to ensure it
has enough cash.  
 BP announced a record quarterly loss of $17.2 billion today
after writing off the projected costs of paying for the spill.  
 Hayward will get a  pension fund, worth 10.8 million pounds
($16.8 million) at the end of last year, as well as a year’s
salary of about 1 million pounds.  
 Hayward isn’t the first CEO of BP to quit under a cloud.
Browne resigned after losing a battle to stop a newspaper from
publishing details about his private life in 2007, while Robert
Horton stepped aside in 1992 after poor financial results.  
 Runaway Well  
 With the runaway well now sealed using a temporary cap and
BP on schedule to permanently plug it with cement next month,
analysts said it was good time for Hayward to go.  
 “Hayward’s doing a great job but the board needs to get
BP’s reputation back,” said  Peter Hitchens , an analysts at
London-based Panmure Gordon & Co. “Having an American should
lessen some of the xenophobia that’s out there and Dudley’s a
perfectly capable manager.”  
 The eldest of seven children, Hayward was born in Slough,
25 miles west of London. He studied in Birmingham and then in
Edinburgh, earning a Ph.D. in geology in 1982.  
 That same year he joined BP after an invitation from then-
Chief Geologist  David Jenkins . Hayward worked in Aberdeen,
Scotland, as a rig geologist and was part of the team that
discovered the Miller field in the North Sea. He joined Browne’s
office in 1990 after they met at a conference in Arizona, and
the two worked on BP’s  takeover  of Amoco Corp. and Atlantic
Richfield Co.  
 On the Board  
 After assignments in France, China, Colombia and Venezuela,
he returned to London in 1997 as a director of BP Exploration,
the biggest unit. Two years later, he was named group vice
president and was elected to the board in 2003.  
 On getting the top job, Hayward’s task was to improve
safety after the Texas refinery accident and an oil spill in
Alaska the following year. The refinery blast, which killed 15
people, led to a legal battle between victims’ families and BP.  
 The Deepwater Horizon disaster means his successor will
have to start from scratch in rebuilding the company’s
reputation.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Swint  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        