-- BAE Said to Win $773 Million Indian Order for BAE Hawk Trainers
-- James Rupert
-- 2010-07-28T11:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/bae-said-to-gain-775-million-indian-order-for-57-hawk-trainer-aircraft.html

          
          
             BAE Systems Plc  and Rolls-Royce
Group Plc signed an agreement valued at about 700 million pounds
($1.1 billion) to supply Hawk pilot-trainer aircraft to India,
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s office said.  
 The deal for 57 aircraft was signed with Hindustan
Aeronautics Ltd. at the company’s headquarters in Bangalore,
southern India, which Cameron visited today. The order is valued
at more than 500 million pounds for BAE and as much as 200
million pounds for  Rolls-Royce , Cameron’s office said in an e-
mailed statement.  
 BAE, Europe’s biggest defense company, made India its
seventh “home market” in January, meaning that it is building
up a manufacturing presence there and not just seeking to export
equipment built elsewhere. India has tripled defense spending in
a decade as it competes with a Chinese military expansion that
includes an almost fourfold budget increase over the same period.  
 India’s arms buildup has been hampered by a series of deals
delayed or canceled, with an earlier order for 66 BAE trainers
taking two decades to negotiate and hampered by a lack of parts.
BAE is part of the Eurofighter GmbH group that’s competing with
five manufacturers including  Boeing Co.  and Lockheed Martin Corp.
for a contract to supply 126 combat aircraft.  
 BAE’s hopes of winning that order “might have been a
motivating thing for the British in resolving” issues with the
initial Hawk sale, said  Kapil Kak , a director at the  Center for
Air Power Studies  in New Delhi. “The robustness of the India-
U.K. relations” facilitated today’s agreement, Kak said.  
 Halted Plan  
 The Indian government last year halted a plan to buy
further Hawks and opened new bidding after state-owned Hindustan
Aeronautics (HAL) complained of delays in BAE’s transfer of
technology to build the planes in India.  
 “All the problems with HAL have been resolved and we are
thinking of a global relationship,” Andrew Gallagher, managing
director and chief executive of BAE Systems India (Pvt)., said
in Bangalore today.  
 Cameron said last week he wants increasing trade to be the
central goal of British foreign policy. Indian imports from the
U.K. rose 19 percent to $5.9 billion in the 12 months ending
March 2009, the last fiscal year for which full figures are
available, according to India’s  Commerce Department .  
 “This is an outstanding example of India-U.K. defense and
industrial partnership, and this agreement will bring
significant economic benefits to both our countries,” Cameron
said in the statement. “It is evidence of our new, commercial
foreign policy in action.”  
 Jet Fighters  
 The Hawk will allow pilots to train for the Indian Air
Force’s fleet of mainly Russian jet fighters, together with the
batch of 126 planes that the country is planning to buy from
either Boeing, Lockheed Martin, Eurofighter, Saab AB, Dassault
Aviation SA or RSK-MiG. BAE says the Hawk is the world’s most
successful advanced jet trainer, with more than 900 in service
and 18 global customers.  
 “BAE Systems is extremely pleased to have secured this
follow-on order for Hawk,” BAE Chairman  Dick Olver , one of 39
business leaders who accompanied Cameron to India, said in the
statement. “It reflects the long-standing successful
relationship between BAE Systems and HAL and the importance of
solid government support.”  
 Export Hub  
 India may also become BAE’s focus for the manufacture of
artillery pieces. The Asian country would be a logical choice as
an export hub because of the big market potential, skilled
workforce and relatively low cost base,  Guy Griffiths , managing
director at BAE’s International division, said July 21.  
 India aims to raise the proportion of defense equipment
produced at home from about 30 percent to 70 percent in the next
10 years. BAE struck an agreement with local company Mahindra &
Mahindra Ltd. in November to establish an armored-vehicles and
artillery venture in which it will hold a 26 percent stake.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in Bangalore, India, at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     David Cameron, U.K. prime minister, speaks during a news conference, in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
