-- Bank of America Offers Mutual Funds Algorithm for Exchange Traded Funds
-- Nina Mehta
-- 2010-07-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/bank-of-america-gives-mutual-funds-brokerages-algorithm-for-trading-etfs.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp. , the largest
U.S. lender by assets, is offering clients an electronic trading
strategy that can automatically create shares of exchange-traded
funds by buying and selling stocks and hedging with futures.  
 The Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank estimates that
more than a third of its electronic clients will adopt the
algorithm, which seeks liquidity in ETF shares and related
securities at the best price, said  Charlie Whitlock , a director
in the bank’s execution services team. The ETF-aX product is
aimed at mutual and hedge fund managers and broker-dealers.  
 “This is part of the changeover from institutions sending
orders to brokers to doing more self-execution,” said  Paul Zubulake , a senior analyst at research firm Aite Group in
Boston. “More customers are taking execution into their own
hands and brokers want to provide tools directly to them.”
Commission costs also shrink “when you take a human being out
of the equation,” he said.  
 U.S. ETFs had $783 billion of assets in May, up from $582
billion a year earlier,  according  to the Investment Company
Institute in Washington. The number of ETFs rose to 860 from 712
over the same period, the trade group said. ETFs accounted for
about 17 percent of U.S. equities volume in the first half of
this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 “The overall ETF market has grown and clients who
historically weren’t investing in these types of derivatives are
expanding the types of products they trade for hedging purposes
or to get exposure to a particular sector,” Whitlock said.  
 Automated Strategy  
 Bank of America is giving clients access to an automated
strategy it uses on its own ETF desk to handle customer orders,
Whitlock said. The strategy can buy or sell the ETF, shares of
companies tracked by the product, and futures, depending on the
best tactic at the time. It returns ETF shares to the client.  
 “As we build out our electronic offering, there’s been
demand from our client base for more sophisticated tools to
trade these asset classes,” Whitlock said. Bank of America,
like other brokers, gives customers algorithms tailored to
particular types of trading or stocks to meet their execution
goals. Customers often use strategies that sweep liquidity
across markets to trade ETFs, he said.  
 They can now employ the algorithm instead of going to a
human sales trader at a broker-dealer, Whitlock said. Such
intermediaries make decisions about how to transact blocks for
institutions, including when to commit the firm’s capital to
facilitate a customer trade that would move the market or
couldn’t be executed rapidly enough.  
 Anonymity Concern  
 “Customers have more concerns about anonymity and they
want more control over their order flow,” he said. “This is a
product customers can use to trade ETFs themselves.” He said
clients would still use sales traders for difficult or large
transactions that couldn’t readily be executed.  
 ETF-aX is the first product Bank of America is offering
clients that was specifically designed to trade across asset
classes, Whitlock said. It does so because shares in some ETFs
don’t have enough daily volume to meet institutional demand even
though companies in the index may be actively traded.  
 Beyond some of the most popular ETFs including the  SPDR S&P
500 ETF Trust  and  PowerShares QQQ , “many names don’t trade as
well as the underlying stocks do,” said  Justin Davda , a
director at Bank of America’s ETF desk. “So there may not be
enough liquidity for institutions.” Broker-dealer trading desks
can hedge in related futures contracts or the underlying
securities and turn those trades into an ETF for the customer.
“With this algo, we’ve wrapped that process into a tool and put
it on the electronic trading platform, expanding the universe of
algorithmically tradable ETFs for clients,” he said.  
 Electronic Strategies  
 The ETF algorithm is considered a premium product and will
cost more per share for customers to use than some of the Bank
of America’s other trading strategies, Whitlock said.  
 Brokers such as Chicago-based Fox River Execution, which
SunGard Data Systems Inc. said on July 22 that it acquired,
offer customers electronic strategies to buy and sell ETFs.
 Credit Suisse Group AG  handled the most U.S. stock trading based
on commissions paid by asset managers and hedge funds, according
to a June report by research firm Greenwich Associates. Bank of
America was tied for third with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. while
JPMorgan Chase & Co. was second.  
 “Electronic trading has become an increasingly important
part of the market, but up until now people traded ETFs with
algorithms designed for individual stocks,” Davda said. “Now
they can do it themselves with a product designed specifically
for ETFs,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        