-- Banks Charge States Millions in Debt Binge to Fix Subprime Bust
-- Dunstan McNichol
-- 2010-07-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/banks-charge-taxpayers-millions-as-u-s-states-raise-cash-to-cure-deficits.html

          
          
             Bank of America  Corp., owner of the
most-active subprime lender, Countrywide Financial Corp., earned
$2.9 million in interest and fees for a line of credit  Arizona 
used through June to balance a budget undermined by the housing-
market collapse.  
 Morgan Stanley , fined $102 million by  Massachusetts  last
month for allegedly breaking home-lending laws, shared in
$579,000 of fees from helping run a $120 million bond sale for
the state last week that pushed debt payments from this fiscal
year into future budgets. Wachovia Bank NA and Bank of America
managed $400 million of Chicago transportation note sales in
2009 and 2010 to cover delayed state funds even though
Wachovia’s parent Wells Fargo & Co. and Countrywide have been
sued by Illinois for steering minority borrowers to subprime
loans.  
 New Jersey , New Hampshire and other U.S. states also needed
budget-balancing help that enriched the same Wall Street firms
that touched off the longest economic slump since the 1930s by
packaging loans to unqualified borrowers. States issued $92
billion of long-term debt since Jan. 1, 2009, generating about
$488 million for banks based on the average underwriting fee of
$5.30 per $1,000 of bonds, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 “You’re basically rewarding those who got you into the
mess,” Arizona’s Treasurer  Dean Martin  said in an interview.  
 Martin’s state, with the nation’s second-highest home-
foreclosure rate after Nevada, paid Wells Fargo, Morgan Stanley,
 Goldman Sachs Group  Inc. and other firms involved in subprime-
mortgage trading more than $5 million to help raise $1.4 billion
to balance its budget by selling state offices, prisons and
future state lottery revenue, bond-sale documents show.  
 How to ‘Stick It’  
 “Everyone’s saying they want to stick it to Wall Street,”
Martin, 35, said from Phoenix. “If you want to stick it to  Wall
Street , balance your budget.”  
 Banks helped states add $43 billion of debt last year, the
most since 2004, Moody’s Investors Service said in May, as they
coped with what the U.S. Census Bureau says was a $95 billion
decline in  tax collections  from September 2008 to the end of
2009. Cost cuts are needed, too: budget deficits will reach $140
billion in fiscal 2011, which began July 1 for most states, the
Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington-based
researcher,  said in June .  
 States have little choice but to use prominent Wall Street
firms to market their debt because only the biggest banks have
the resources to support such large deals, said  John Sinsheimer ,
Illinois’s capital-markets director.  
 Services Rendered  
 “To put together a group of small banks would be an
unmanageable task,” Sinsheimer said by telephone from Chicago.
Illinois paid Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch & Co. $754,000
when it sold $1.3 billion of short-term notes July 20 to make up
for a decline in tax revenue. “We pay for services rendered and
we’re getting services rendered,” he said.  
 Underwriting debt isn’t the only way banks profit from
states battered by a decline in tax revenue last year that was
the steepest on record, according to the Nelson A. Rockefeller
Institute of Government in Albany. At least 12, including New
Jersey, New Hampshire and Ohio, are hiring investment banks to
devise ways to use borrowing to finance or put off millions of
dollars of interest payments they can’t afford in their 2010 or
2011 budgets.  
 New Jersey paid Morgan Stanley $143,000 to sell $94 million
of four-month notes July 12 to cover bond payments due July 15
and Aug. 1, according to testimony from the Office of Public
Finance meeting at which the deal was approved. The notes will
be refinanced in September in a $268 million deal that will
defer for about a decade $202 million of payments due this year.
The maneuvers will generate $1.2 million in fees, said a June 29
transaction summary Morgan Stanley prepared for lawmakers.  
 Shifting Payments  
 New Jersey earlier this year paid Merrill Lynch and others
more than $3.5 million in a refinancing of $703 million of bonds
that shifted $679 million of debt payments due through 2014 into
the future. New Hampshire paid $119,000 to UBS Financial
Services Inc., a unit of Zurich-based  UBS AG , for a $45 million
deal that saved $48 million for this year’s state budget by
pushing current interest payments into the next nine years,
according to bond documents.  
 “Debt restructuring, in the form of issuing bonds to defer
debt service, became a common solution” to budget gaps in 2009,
Moody’s said in its report on state borrowing.  
 Budget-survival tactics that benefit banks extend beyond
the state level.  
 In New Jersey, 56 school districts issued $183 million in
short-term notes after the state withheld aid payments due June
8 and June 22, said Richard Vespucci, a spokesman for the state
Department of Education.  
 University Borrowing  
 Illinois public universities were given authority by the
Legislature to issue debt to make up for missed state payments
and Chicago’s Regional Transportation Authority, the second-
largest U.S. public transport system, has borrowed $400 million
since last year to cover delayed aid. New Hampshire this month
used a $25 million advance from its state university, which will
be repaid with  borrowed funds , to help plug a budget gap.  
 Suggesting that New Hampshire’s deals will reward firms
that caused the state’s budget problems is “simplistic,” New
Hampshire Treasurer  Catherine Provencher  said by telephone from
Concord. “The issues are much more complicated and interwoven
to make a direct connection,” she said on July 12.  
 New Jersey Treasurer  Andrew Eristoff  said the Wall Street
bankers states work with are distinct from the banking segments
that were involved in mortgage finance.  
 “It’s a huge company we’re talking about,” he said July
12 after the $94 million Morgan Stanley-led debt restructuring
was approved.  
 Millions in Settlements  
 Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  fined
investment banks including Morgan Stanley and  Goldman Sachs  for
funding brokers lending to homeowners who couldn’t afford their
mortgages, a violation of state law. Since 2008, she’s won more
than $440 million of settlements, according to  news releases 
from her office.  
 Morgan Stanley was among four co-senior managers of a $120
million Massachusetts debt-restructuring last week and Goldman
was part of the 21-firm selling group, bond records show. Both
firms admitted no wrongdoing in their settlements with Coakley.  
 Coakley wouldn’t discuss the state’s continued use of the
firms, according to her spokeswoman, Amie Breton.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman in New York, and  Jennifer Sala  of Morgan Stanley declined to comment.  
 Illinois Suits  
 In Illinois, Attorney General  Lisa Madigan  has sued  Wells
Fargo  and Countrywide, the two largest U.S. mortgage lenders
before the  housing market  collapsed in 2007, for improperly
steering minority homeowners into subprime loans. The banks’
actions led to a surge in foreclosures projected to reduce
Illinois property values by $126 billion by 2012, Madigan’s
complaint against Wells Fargo says.  
 “Plummeting property values mean a shrinking tax base for
funds to support governmental services,” the July 31, 2009,
complaint against San Francisco-based Wells Fargo says.  
 Wachovia Bank, which Wells Fargo acquired in January 2009,
was senior manager of a $260 million short-term bond sale in
June 2009 by the Chicago Regional Transportation Authority. The
agency was seeking to cover state payments delayed as part of a
budget-balancing strategy. Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch
served as lead underwriter on a new $140 million deal on July 19
to help the same agency manage delays in state aid.  
 Bank Comments  
 Through a spokeswoman,  Robyn Ziegler , Madigan declined to
comment. So did Ferris Morrison, a spokeswoman for Wachovia, in
a July 19 telephone interview.  Bill Halldin , a Bank of America
spokesman in San Francisco, said his firm gives states good
value.  
 “Our credit solutions are all priced competitively based
on current market dynamics,” he said in a telephone interview
July 21.  
 Arizona’s Martin, a Republican who ended his run for
governor July 10, said as long as states don’t cut spending to
match reduced tax revenue, Wall Street will be waiting to help
them borrow.  
 “The state is doing exactly the same thing a lot of
subprime homeowners did,” he said. “You’ve got a crisis that
was caused by too much debt, and states are resorting to exactly
the same thing.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        