-- Banks Laud Basel Compromise on Capital Rules as Stocks Surge
-- Yalman Onaran
-- 2010-07-28T09:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/banks-applaud-basel-compromise-on-capital-rules-as-financial-stocks-surge.html

          
          
             Banks worldwide applauded changes to
proposed capital and liquidity standards that relaxed aspects of
the rules and gave lenders as much as eight years to comply.  
 Lobbying groups in Europe and the U.S. praised the changes
announced July 26 by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
as steps in the right direction, while firms including  Deutsche
Bank AG  and  UBS AG  welcomed the softening of rules proposed by
the committee in December. European and Japanese bank stocks
surged.  
 “To a large extent, the committee has taken into account
the concerns of the industry,” said  Charles Dallara , managing
director of the Washington-based  Institute of International
Finance , which represents more than 375 companies around the
world. “It’s too early to reach a firm conclusion because they
still haven’t finalized many issues, but the announcement
included a series of important clarifications.”  
 The Basel committee agreed to continue allowing some
assets, including banks’ minority stakes in other financial
firms, to count in part as capital, reversing its initial stance
to ban their use all together. It also expanded the definition
of what counts as liquid assets and gave banks until 2018 to
comply with a new  leverage ratio  designed to rein in risk-
taking. A long-term liquidity ratio that analysts estimated
would have forced banks to sell more than $4 trillion of debt
also won’t be imposed for eight years.  
 ‘Generally Positive’  
 “Most of the concessions that have been made would be
generally positive for us,” said  John Cryan , chief financial
officer of Zurich-based UBS, in a conference call with analysts
yesterday after the bank announced second-quarter  earnings 
exceeding analysts’ estimates.  
 That view was echoed by  Stefan Krause , CFO of Frankfurt-
based Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest lender.  
 “We welcome the changes announced,” Krause said in a
conference call. “And obviously there are some further changes
we hope we still get where we have some different view.”  
 French banks and UBS are among the biggest beneficiaries of
the changes, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts said in a note.
Credit Agricole SA now has enough time to replenish capital
through earnings retention to meet tougher liquidity and capital
requirements, Morgan Stanley analysts said.  
 “Whilst we have been assuming delay and dilute in our base
case, this confirmation helps provide a more helpful backdrop
for European banks, which were in our view most challenged by
the opening bid by Basel,” Morgan Stanley’s  Huw van Steenis 
said in a report.  
 Bank Stocks Higher  
 European bank stocks rose for a second day, with Portugal’s
Banco Espirito Santo and Dankse Bank A/S leading the Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services  Index  higher today. The 54-
member index was up 1.2 percent at 122.53 at 10:15 a.m. in
London. The benchmark jumped 4.5 percent yesterday, the biggest
gain since European leaders crafted a 750 billion-euro ($973
billion) rescue package on May 10.  
 “A substantial Basel u-turn greatly reduces future capital
and funding needs,” London-based analysts at Evolution
Securities Ltd. including  Arturo De Frias Marques  wrote in a
report today. “This could be the turning point for many fund
managers to finally consider rebuilding their banks positions.”  
 U.S. bank stocks hardly budged. The  KBW Bank Index  rose 0.4
percent to 49.39 in New York yesterday. U.S. banks have been
forced by their regulators to raise capital since the 2008
credit crisis brought many to the brink of collapse and wouldn’t
be impacted as much as European lenders.  
 Bank Lobbying  
 The Basel committee, which represents central banks and
regulators in 27 nations and sets capital standards for banks
worldwide, was asked by Group of 20 leaders to draft rules after
the worst financial crisis in 70 years.  
 France and Germany led efforts to weaken regulations
proposed by the committee last year, concerned that their banks
and economies wouldn’t be able to bear the burden of tougher
capital requirements until a recovery takes hold, according to
bankers, regulators and lobbyists involved in the talks.  
 European banks lobbied against the proposed exclusion of
minority interests that banks hold in other financial
institutions.  Japan  fought the hardest against the elimination
of deferred-tax assets, past losses that lenders use to offset
tax charges in future years. The U.S. opposed removing mortgage-
servicing rights, contracts to collect payments, which are
unique to U.S. banks.  
 ‘Need for Pragmatism’  
 The compromise, announced after a  meeting  of the group of
governors and heads of supervision that oversees the committee’s
work, would allow a bank to count part of a stake it owns in
another financial firm in relation to the risk the capital is
supposed to cover at the entity in which it invested. Deferred-
tax assets and mortgage-servicing rights would be included in
capital up to a limit. The total for all three could not exceed
15 percent of a lender’s common equity.  
 “All the virtuous effects sought by regulators and
governments seem to be working out,” said  Pierre Flabbee , a
Paris-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets. Basel’s softened
proposals are “the acknowledgment of the need for pragmatism
compared to an ideal rule.”  
 Germany was a lone holdout, even after softening the rules.
The definitions of capital and the leverage ratio are still not
satisfactory, the German central bank said.  
 “Even after all the compromises, the banks aren’t off the
hook from tighter capital and liquidity rules,” said  Frederick Cannon , chief equity strategist at New York-based Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods.  
 ‘Still in Play’  
 While the announcement resolved several issues, many areas
of contention, such as the actual minimum capital ratios that
will be set, remain outstanding. The committee is planning to
present a final package of reforms to the G-20 leaders meeting
in  Seoul  in November.  
 Banks currently need to hold capital equal to a minimum of
8 percent of risk-weighted assets. Half of that must be Tier 1,
and half of the Tier 1 needs to be common stock. Both Tier 1 and
common-equity ratios will be increased, and the committee is
revising how the risk weighting will be done.  
 “We’re still waiting for the numbers on capital,” said
 Mary Frances Monroe , a vice president of the American Bankers
Association, a lobbying group based in Washington. “It’s still
in play.”  
 ‘Right Direction’  
 The changes are “definitely in the right direction,”
Monroe said. The British Bankers’ Association, the British
counterpart to Monroe’s group, said the nation’s banks
“welcomed” the Basel announcement. “The committee has taken
on board industry’s concerns about the capital proposals,” the
BBA said in a statement.  
 The Basel committee said some of its  proposals  might not be
completed by the end of this year, the deadline set by the G-20.
Liquidity requirements for how much cash and easily cashable
securities banks need to hold against their longer-term
liabilities will take more time to work out, the board said. The
same applies to counter-cyclical buffers, which would raise
minimum capital requirements in times of faster economic growth.  
 While the capital ratios allow banks to assign weights to
assets based on their risks, the new leverage figure considers
all assets without a risk assessment. The committee initially
set it at 3 percent -- meaning a bank’s total assets cannot be
more than 33 times its Tier 1 capital, which includes securities
that could help a lender cover unexpected losses.  
 Economic Growth  
 The new rule also defines how assets are tallied, so as to
level the playing field between different accounting standards
and bring off-balance-sheet items into the calculation. The
ratio will be tested from 2013 until 2017, and banks would be
required to start publishing their individual leverage figures
in 2015.  
 Bankers including  Deutsche Bank  Chief Executive Officer
 Josef Ackermann  and HSBC Holdings Plc Chairman  Stephen Green 
have said that the new rules may force banks to reduce lending,
potentially limiting economic growth  
 “The Basel committee is being very sensible in giving a
sufficiently long transition period so as not to derail any
economic recovery,”  Charles Goodhart , a former Bank of England
policy maker and professor at the London School of Economics,
said in an interview.  
 Liquidity Rules  
 Like the leverage ratio, the liquidity rules are new to the
Basel standards. The liquidity coverage ratio sets the amount of
cash that needs to be held by a lender against any payment
coming due within a month, while the net stable funding ratio
considers liabilities up to 12 months.  
 The committee announced several modifications to the
definition of liquid assets and of how to measure the safety of
different types of funding. Government deposits will now be
considered as stable as corporate cash put in a bank, instead of
being treated like money from other banks as originally
proposed. Bank deposits are seen as less secure.  
 The changes should please banks, said KBW’s Cannon.  
 “They compromised more on the short-term ratio than we
were expecting,” Cannon said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yalman Onaran  in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Institute of International Finance managing director Charles Dallara. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
