-- Banks May Signal Trouble for U.S. Stocks: Technical Analysis
-- Lu Wang
-- 2010-07-27T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/banks-may-signal-trouble-for-u-s-stocks-concept-says-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             Banks and brokerages  have lagged
behind the U.S. stock market, spurring concern among technical
analysts that the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  may resume its
decline soon.  
 Concept Capital said the group’s relatively low proportion
of stocks hitting new highs is evidence of its failure to show
leadership in July’s rally. Bank of America Corp. said a
potential “double top” pattern in the  NYSE Arca Securities
Broker/Dealer Index  may call into question optimism that the
biggest slump since the bull market began is over.  
 The S&P 500 has dropped as much as 16 percent from this
year’s peak in April on concern growth in the U.S. and China is
slowing. Since then, better-than-expected earnings at companies
from Apple Inc. and Ford Motor Co. have helped stocks, lifting
the  benchmark  up 7.8 percent this month.  
 “What’s good for financials is usually good for the
broader market, but the relative performance trend for the
sector remains near a low,”  John Kolovos  and  Craig S. Peskin ,
co-heads of technical analysis at Concept Capital, wrote in a
note to clients yesterday. That “is problematic.”  
 Banks led the bull market during the S&P 500’s rebound from
a 12-year low in March 2009. The S&P 500 Financials Index surged
170 percent to April 23, more than double the benchmark’s gain.  
 The group is now losing momentum. On July 23, when the S&P
500 jumped to a one-month high, 24 percent of its financial
companies reached 20-day highs, the third-lowest proportion
among the 10 industry groups, according to Concept Capital. Only
energy and healthcare shares fared worse.  
 Mary Ann Bartels , who bases predictions on price and volume
charts at Bank of America, said the Broker/Dealer Index is in
the process of forming a double-top with highs on Oct. 14 and
April 15, a pattern usually considered bearish.  
 “Financials are still showing weakness, which concerns us
that the market may not have completed its correction,” Bartels
wrote in a note yesterday. “This has the potential to be a
headwind for the U.S. equity market.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story;
 Lu Wang  in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        