-- Bawag to Sell 10% Stake in Hungary's MKB, Cancels $520 Million Guarantee
-- Oliver Suess
-- 2010-07-27T09:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/bawag-to-sell-10-stake-in-hungary-s-mkb-cancels-520-million-guarantee.html

          
          
             Bawag PSK Bank, the Austrian bank
owned by Cerberus Capital Management LP, has agreed with the
European Union to sell its 10 percent stake in MKB Bank of
Hungary and canceled its 400 million-euro ($520 million)
guarantee from the Austrian state as of June 30.  
 The EU Commission, the EU’s competition authority i n Brussels, h as given the bank “suffi cient” time  to sell the
stake in Budapest-based MKB, Chief Executive Officer Byron Haynes  told reporters in Vienna yesterday, declining to comment
on the exact deadline.  
 Bayerische Landesbank, Germany’s second-biggest state-owned
lender that needed 10 billion eu ros in fresh capital from the
State of Bavaria, owns 89.8 percen t in MKB. A sa le of the stake
“is being discussed” with the European Commission, BayernLB
Chief Executive Officer Gerd Haeusler  said in April.   
 The EU Commission is investigating government bailouts on
concern the aid will give banks that had difficulties during the
financial crisis an unfair advantage in the future. The
commission may demand a sale of units as part of BayernLB’s
restructuring measures.   
 Bawag was “highly profitable” in the first half of this
year and will on Aug. 25 announce that net profit, net interest
income and net commission income increased, while loan loss
provisions declined, Haynes said.  
 The bank, which is cutting 500 jobs by 2013, is “close to
finalizing” the terms with a new chief financial officer and
will make an announcement by Aug. 25, Haynes said. Haynes has
been CFO in addition to heading the bank, since being appointed
chief executive officer in August of last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        