-- BBVA May Say Quarterly Profit Fell Amid Spain Slump, Higher Funding Costs
-- Charles Penty
-- 2010-07-27T07:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/bbva-may-say-quarterly-profit-fell-amid-spain-slump-higher-funding-costs.html

          
          
             Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA ,
Spain’s second-biggest bank, may report lower second-quarter
profit after Spain’s worst recession in 60 years dented credit
demand and drove up lenders’ funding costs.  
 Net income  probably fell to 1.23 billion euros ($1.6
billion) from 1.56 billion euros a year earlier, according to
the average estimate in a  Bloomberg survey  of eight analysts.
Bilbao, Spain-based BBVA will report results tomorrow before the
stock market opens.  
 The lender may benefit from an improved economic outlook
in Mexico, its second-biggest market, as the aftermath of the
recession hurts lending and revenue at home,  Carlos Berastain , a
Deutsche Bank AG analyst, said in a report.  
 BBVA, led by Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez , last week
passed a  stress test  of European banks with its Tier 1 capital
ratio, a measure of the ability to absorb losses, dropping to
9.3 percent in the most adverse scenario from 9.4 percent at
the end of 2009.  
 Investors are looking for signs BBVA, which allowed Spanish
 deposits  to shrink 6.9 percent in the first quarter, will take
steps to shore up its retail funding base amid concern over
financing costs, said  Daragh Quinn , an  analyst  at Nomura
International in Madrid.  
 The lender earlier this month sold 2 billion euros of
covered bonds to yield 195 basis points more than the swap rate.
That yield compared with a sale of covered bonds by La Caixa,
Spain’s biggest savings bank, in April priced to yield 72 basis
points more than swaps.  
 Balance Sheet  
 “Investors want to see balance-sheet strength,” Quinn,
who rates BBVA “neutral,” said in a phone interview. “They
need to show they have at least maintained their deposit base in
Spain or people are going to ask some questions.”  
 The 21 percent decline in the bank’s shares this year
values the company at about 38 billion euros and compares with a
2.3 percent drop in the 54-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index.  
 Profit  from Spain and Portugal may fall 9 percent to
532 million euros, according to an estimate from  Carlos Joaquim Peixoto , an analyst at Banco BPI SA.  
 Profit from Mexico and the U.S. may have gained 7.6 percent
to 468 million euros, while earnings from South America may have
dropped 12 percent to 190 million euros, according to Nomura’s
Quinn. Mexico’s gross domestic product will expand 4.4 percent
this year, according to a Banco de Mexico survey.  
 Earnings from wholesale banking may have declined 3.3
percent, Quinn said. Gross non-performing loans as a proportion
of total lending may rise to 4.5 percent from 4.2 percent in
March, he said. BBVA reclassified 1.8 billion euros of good
loans as doubtful in the fourth quarter as the bank anticipated
future losses.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        