-- BlackRock Avoids Today's U.K. Indexed Bond Sale Amid Pension `Confusion'
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-07-27T15:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/blackrock-avoids-today-s-u-k-indexed-bond-sale-amid-pension-confusion-.html

          
          
             BlackRock  Inc., the world’s biggest
asset manager, said it didn’t buy U.K. inflation-linked bonds at
today’s sale amid “confusion” about the government’s planned
changes to pension indexing.  
 The Debt Management Office raised 6 billion pounds ($9.3
billion) from selling a 30-year index-linked bond which banks
sold at the low end of the planned yield range. The sale was the
largest syndicated offering of an inflation-protected gilt, the
debt agency said. Two weeks ago, a sale of inflation-linked
notes garnered the lowest demand for that bond issue since 2008.  
 “I’m not involved in this deal,”  Brian Weinstein , a New
York-based fund manager at BlackRock, said after the sale. “But
it’s is encouraging to see it go well.”  
 All U.K. inflation-linked debt is based on the retail price
index, or RPI. The two-month-old Conservative-Liberal Democrat
coalition announced that it would align state pensions to
consumer price inflation, which has been lower than RPI on
average during the past 20 years, and may ask private pensions
to do the same. The U.K. has said it doesn’t have immediate
plans to issue CPI-linked bonds, which could help pension-fund
managers avoid a mismatch with their long-term liabilities.  
 Caution Before Clarity  
 “The market certainly doesn’t like uncertainty,”
 Weinstein  said in an interview on July 23. “Do I think we will
use this syndication to get more overweight? We don’t think so.
I would want to be cautious until we get clarity.”  
 Today’s 0.625 percent 2040 index-linked bond was priced to
yield 1.02 percent, or a yield spread of zero to the 1.125
percent index-linked gilt maturing in November 2037, according
to the Debt Management Office. Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc are managing the issue.  
 The debt agency said 99 percent of the demand at the
syndicated offering today was from domestic investors including
pension funds and insurance companies.  
 Weinstein, who last year described the U.K. inflation-
linked bond market as “bizarre,” said he doesn’t manage
liabilities for British pension funds, and trades index-linked
bonds for his funds.  
 ‘Confusing’ Issue  
 “The issue is still confusing because it’s not totally
clear how much pension-fund assets will be switched from RPI to
CPI,” Weinstein said. “Part of the reason why the U.K. is
really cheap in line with the rest of the market is because of
CPI and RPI confusion.”  
 The July 15 auction of an index-linked bond maturing in
2022 drew the lowest demand for the security since October 2008.
Unlike the consumer price index, the retail price index includes
such items as mortgage-interest payments and local taxes.  
 “I think the pension-fund community will still need RPI-”
based bonds, Weinstein said. “They might need a small amount of
CPI as well. But still, it’s good to have a nice, clean test.
Deep down, I think the U.K. market will be just fine.”  
 Pension Minister  Steve Webb  said July 8 that the government
intended to use the CPI as the key inflation measure for “the
purposes of regulating occupational pension schemes,” as
company pension plans are known in Britain. A spokeswoman for
his department declined to comment further.  
 ‘Overweight’  
 Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government may save money as
CPI has shown inflation to be an average 0.7 percentage point
lower than RPI over the past 20 years, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Consumer prices, which the Bank of England monitors,
rose 3.2 percent from a year earlier in June, while retail
prices advanced 5 percent during the same period, according to
Office for National Statistics data released on July 13.  
 BlackRock, which manages more than $3 trillion, still
maintains its so-called “overweight” position on U.K. index-
linked bonds, Weinstein said. This means his fund holds a
greater percentage of the bonds than in the benchmark indexes he
uses to measure performance.  
 Weinstein said he prefers British inflation-protected bonds
to those of the U.S. and the euro region because the Bank of
England is the central bank “most willing” to revive its
economy through bond purchases, known as quantitative easing.  
 “The U.K. is a place where inflation is stickier than
other places,” said Weinstein. “The Bank of England will
undertake the QE program again if things get worse. That will
boost inflation in the longer term. Inflation is not a near-term
issue, but my view is that people are underestimating the long-
term risk of inflation.”  
 U.K. inflation-linked bonds underperformed their U.S. and
European peers this quarter. They handed investors a 2.75
percent loss compared with a decline of 0.98 percent from U.S.
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities and a 1.31 loss from
German index-linked debt, according to indexes compiled by Bank
of America’s Merrill Lynch unit.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        