-- Botswana's Diamond Production May Jump by 36% This Year as Demand Recovers
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-07-27T14:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/botswana-says-it-expects-diamond-production-of-24-million-carats-this-year.html

          
          
             Botswana, the world’s biggest
diamond producer, may produce 24 million carats of gems in 2010,
36 percent more than last year, as demand recovers following a
global economic recession.  
 “The market is improving and we will increase output,”
said  Kgomotso Abi , director of mining at Botswana’s Department
of Mines, in an interview in Johannesburg today. “It all
depends on the market.”  
 Three of the southern African nation’s four diamond mines
are currently operating below capacity, while Damtshaa in the
northeast is temporarily closed, said Abi. Botswana would be
able to raise output further if necessary, he said.  
 Botswana’s diamonds are produced by Debswana Diamond Co., a
joint venture between  De Beers , the world’s largest gem
producer, and Botswana’s government. The venture shut its mines
during the first quarter of 2009 as the global recession slashed
diamond prices.  
 Botswana produced about 17.7 million carats in 2009, down
from 32.3 million carats a year earlier, De Beers spokesman  Tom Tweedy  said by phone from Johannesburg. It will take another two
years for gem production to recover to pre-recession levels,
Finance Minister  Kenneth Matambo  said on Feb. 11.  
 While rough diamond prices have risen in the past year,
returning to levels last seen in June 2008, the global economic
climate remains fragile, especially in the U.S., Japan and
Europe, De Beers said on July 23.  
 ‘Next Big Thing’  
 Retail sales in the U.S., which accounts for half of global
diamond consumption, are growing at the fastest pace in four
years, driven by an 8 percent jump at luxury chains this year,
the International Council of Shopping Centers said on July 7.  
 Botswana, which produces about a fifth of global diamond
output, wants to reduce its dependence on the stones. Coal could
be the “next big thing” for the country, Abi said.  
 Logistics are the main constraint stopping Botswana
developing its coal industry, and as a result the country is in
talks about building a rail line that would allow it to export
coal from ports in Namibia, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        