-- BP Drilling Is on Schedule to Permanently Plug U.S. Gulf Well Next Month
-- Mark Chediak
-- 2010-07-27T21:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/bp-drilling-is-on-schedule-to-permanently-plug-u-s-gulf-well-next-month.html

          
          
             BP Plc ’s attempt to pump mud and
possibly cement into the top of its Macondo well may begin late
Aug. 1 or early Aug. 2, Senior Vice President for Exploration
and Production  Kent Wells  said on a conference call.  
 The procedure, known as a “static kill,” will more fully
seal the well before a relief well reaches it in two weeks to
finish the job, Wells said today on the call with reporters.  
 Work has resumed at the well, site of the worst oil spill
in U.S. history, after an interruption from a storm passing
through the area during the weekend, National Incident Commander
 Thad Allen  said in a press conference earlier today.  
 The well has spilled 2.31 million to 4.1 million barrels of
oil, based on government estimates. It erupted April 20 with a
blast that destroyed the Deepwater Horizon rig, killing 11 crew.
On July 15, BP shut the flow after installing a 40-foot (12-
meter) cap atop a damaged valve assembly.  
 A rig drilling a relief well has been reconnected to the
site and is testing a stack of valves at the top of the well
designed to stop the flow of oil and gas in an emergency,  the
company said today  on its website. Pressure inside the well is
6,928 pounds per square inch, according to the website.  
 BP’s decision to replace Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  with  Robert Dudley , director of BP’s oil-spill response
unit, on Oct. 1 will not have an impact, Allen said during
today’s conference call with reporters.  
 No More Spilling  
 “The level of effort before and after the naming of Mr.
Dudley has been undiminished,” Allen said. “What we have
planned to do and tried to do all the way along has been kind of
independent of senior leadership assignments in  BP .”  
 BP doesn’t expect any more oil will spill from the well,
Dudley said today on ABC’s “Good Morning America.”  
 Lamar McKay, chairman and president of BP America, will
take over the spill-response effort from Dudley, BP said in a
 statement  today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Chediak  in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        