-- BP Spill Thwarts Shell, Statoil in Arctic Oil Delay
-- Kari Lundgren
-- 2010-07-28T14:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/bp-oil-spill-thwarts-shell-statoil-in-arctic-as-regulators-delay-drilling.html

          
          
             BP Plc’s disaster in the Gulf of
Mexico will keep the planet’s biggest pot of untapped oil and
gas under the Arctic ice for now as regulators toughen drilling
rules and demand better ways to handle spills.  
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc  has had plans to explore off Alaska
halted by both U.S. authorities and a federal court ruling last
week. Norway’s  Statoil ASA  faces government restrictions on
drilling in Arctic waters, while BP, responsible for the Gulf
spill that prompted scrutiny of offshore drilling, has put off
developing its  Liberty  prospect in the Beaufort Sea until 2011.  
 “There will be new regulations and requirements that we
need to take into account,” said  Hege Marie Norheim , head of
Arctic development at Statoil, Norway’s biggest energy producer.
“We all want to learn from the Gulf of Mexico, and if that
requires more time, we will take that time.”  
 The delays come as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries restricts access to reserves, energy demand rises and
easy-to-reach fields are depleted. Arctic waters, where
countries including Norway, Canada, Iceland, the U.S. and Russia
claim territorial rights, may hold 90 billion barrels of crude,
equivalent to about 13 percent of the world’s undiscovered
resources, according to a 2008 U.S. Geological Survey.  
 No one can afford to rule out Arctic oil, said  Patrice de Vivies , northern European exploration and production director
for  Total SA , Europe’s third-biggest oil company.  
 Governments “will draw lessons from what happened to BP
and they will check all the procedures,” de Vivies said.  
 Ice Flows  
 Tighter rules in the Arctic could add $2 to $3 to the cost
of producing a barrel of oil, according to  Manouchehr Takin , a
senior petroleum analyst at the  Center for Global Energy Studies 
in London. Crude traded at $77.60 a barrel in New York
yesterday.  
 “There will be a hiccup and delay in projects for a year
or so and then it will start again,” he said.  
 Offshore Arctic drilling is unacceptable for environmental
campaigners, who say the risks outweigh potential gains.  
 “We have just seen a dramatic demonstration that oil
companies can’t clean up a spill in calm waters and good weather
in the Gulf of Mexico, so compare that with broken sea ice in
the Arctic where you have freezing temperatures and darkness
throughout much of the year,” said  Richard Charter , a senior
policy advisor at Washington-based Defenders of Wildlife.  
 If a leak became trapped underneath the ice, it could be
driven miles from a spill site by Arctic currents, he said.  
 Colder Temperatures  
 Colder temperatures that congeal the crude are one reason
why oil from the 1989 Exxon Valdez disaster continues to
contaminate Alaskan beaches, according to the trustee council
set up to oversee the restoration of the region.  
 While Arctic oil and gas wells tend to be in shallow
waters, unlike BP’s deepwater disaster in the Gulf, the drilling
challenges include ice flows and temperatures that can drop
below freezing (32 Fahrenheit), even in summer.  
 “It’s not deepwater and we’re not dealing with extreme
pressures,” Statoil’s Norheim said in an interview in Svalbard,
Norway, 11 degrees south of the North Pole. “The difficulties
are darkness, ice, lack of infrastructure, remoteness and
cold.”  
 The Norwegian Petroleum Safety Authority is reviewing
procedures for handling blowouts, or unexpected pressure surge,
spokeswoman  Inger Anda  said by telephone from Stavanger.  
 The authority’s 2006  survey  following a blowout at
Statoil’s Snorre A field found that every fifth well had safety
issues. The investigation prompted nine operators, including
Statoil and BP, to establish the Well Integrity Forum to improve
well design and management.  
 Thin-Hole Exploration  
 Below the Arctic Circle, Statoil uses thin-hole exploration
wells, which limit the size of the borehole into the reservoir
and the amount of oil extracted to between 1,000 and 2,000
barrels a day. The practice may become more widespread as
regulators seek to reduce the risk of a spill, Norheim said.  
 London-based BP, which faces about $30 billion in costs for
the worst spill in U.S. history, delayed drilling its first well
at Liberty after federal and state agencies said they will
review its plans.  
 Shell said its applications to drill off Alaska faced
“unprecedented” examination from courts and regulators.  
 Federal Court  
 Last week, U.S. Federal Court Judge Ralph Beistline halted
all activities at Shell’s Lease 193 in the Chukchi Sea after
determining the Minerals Management Service had not completed an
adequate environmental review.  
 “We’re still analyzing the ruling and looking at how it
will impact planned operations in 2010, as well as our
aspirations in 2011,” Shell spokeswoman Kim Blomley said.  
 Italy’s Eni SpA submitted a contingency plan for a spill at
the Goliat oilfield in Norway’s Barents Sea, in which Statoil
holds a stake, and is reviewing all procedures, according to
spokeswoman Grethe Elise Foldnes. The plan includes the use of
infrared cameras that help identify the source of a leak during
winter darkness, Norheim said.  
 “Logistics are a challenge,” said Liv Nielsen, Eni’s
health and safety advisor at Goliat. “We’re keeping more
equipment in Hammerfest to be able to start an oil-spill
response action very rapidly,” she said, referring to the town
on the northern tip of Norway.  
 Cairn Energy Plc, the U.K. explorer that began its first
exploratory well off the west coast of Greenland in July, has
added more emergency-response equipment on board its two rigs.  
 Spill Response  
 “Greenland asked us to have more oil spill response
capability offshore and on standby,”  David Nisbet , Cairn’s head
of corporate affairs, said in an interview.  
 Cairn plans to cut short its drilling campaign by about 60
days to leave a window open for a relief well to be completed
before winter should the need arise, Nisbet said. A relief well
is used to pump cement or other fluids into a damaged well to
plug a leak.  
 With global oil demand set to rebound 2.1 percent this
year, according to the  International Energy Agency , the clamor
to tap new deposits isn’t about to ease.  
 “There is a need to produce energy for mankind,” said
Total’s de Vivies. “We can’t just forget about the Arctic.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Royal Dutch Shell Plc has had plans to explore off Alaska  
                       
                         
                           Jock Fistick/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Royal Dutch Shell Plc chief executive officer Peter Voser. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Royal Dutch Shell Plc chief executive officer Peter Voser. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Youngberg, an analyst at Edward Jones in St. Louis, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for BP Plc.
     BP appointed U.S.-born Robert Dudley as chief executive officer and pledged to accelerate asset sales to as much as $30 billion after the Gulf of Mexico oil spill led to a record loss. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
