-- BP Replaces Hayward, Quickens Asset Sales on Record Loss
-- Eduard Gismatullin
-- 2010-07-27T16:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/bp-reports-record-quarterly-loss-on-oil-spill-as-dudley-replaces-hayward.html

          
          
             BP Plc  appointed U.S.-born  Robert Dudley  as chief executive officer and pledged to accelerate
asset sales to as much as $30 billion after the Gulf of Mexico
oil spill led to a record loss.  
 The second-quarter net loss of $17.2 billion compared with
a  profit  of $4.39 billion in the year-earlier period. Dudley
will take over from  Tony Hayward  on Oct. 1, the London-based
company said in a statement today.  
 Dudley’s challenge will be to overcome cleanup costs and
liabilities after the company booked a pre-tax charge of $32.2
billion related to the leak. BP is selling assets over the next
18 months, reducing investment and cutting the  dividend  to pay
the bills after the spill wiped 45 billion pounds ($70 billion)
off the company’s market value.  
 “Dudley is seen as a safe pair of hands,” said  Colin McLean , who helps manage about $950 million at SVM Asset
Management Ltd. in Edinburgh and sold all of his BP shares
during the spill. “What I’ve been more reassured by is that
they’re selling into quite a good market. BP is looking more
attractive with that.”  
 Hayward faced public anger in the U.S. and criticism from
lawmakers over his handling of the leak that was triggered by an
April 20 explosion on the Deepwater Horizon rig, which killed 11
people. Dudley, 54, was born in New York and grew up in
Mississippi, part of the Gulf Coast region suffering
environmental and economic damage from the spill. BP on June 23
appointed him to manage its response to the leak.  
 Stock Performance  
 BP fell 2.6 percent to close at 406 pence in London. The
stock is down 38 percent since the spill started.  
 “For the good of BP, especially in the U.S., it’s the
right thing to step down,” Hayward said in a conference call
with reporters today. He said BP mounted the world’s largest
ever response to a spill and capping the well proved no small
engineering feat.  
 “Whether we dealt with the politics appropriately I’ll
leave others to judge,” he said.  
 BP returned to work on permanently plugging the well after
a storm threat eliminated an opportunity to seal the gusher more
securely by the end of this month. The so-called static kill
will pump mud from the top of the Macondo well next week,
National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said July 25. That will
be followed by mud and cement injections from the bottom using a
relief well.  
 Slimmed Down  
 The three-month long spill has cast a cloud over the oil
company’s future, with some analysts speculating  BP  could be
broken up or taken over. At the very least, it’s likely to
result in a slimmed down company following the asset sales.  
 The company is reducing its debt to as little as $10
billion in the next 18 months after cutting it by $5 billion to
$23.2 billion last quarter from a year earlier. BP’s capital
expenditure will be about $18 billion this year and next, it
said today, sticking to the lower target laid out last month.  
 Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  said that BP isn’t the sole
responsible party for the accident in an interview with
Bloomberg Television today. The company will “vigorously”
pursue its partners on the well for costs, Hayward said in a
conference call with journalists. The partners include Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. and Mitsui Oil Exploration Co.  
 Asset Sales  
 Svanberg agreed with President  Barack Obama  on June 16 to
set up a $20 billion fund to pay for cleanup and liabilities.  
 BP said last week that it sold $7 billion of assets in the
U.S., Canada and Egypt to Apache Corp. It also plans to sell
holdings in Pakistan and Vietnam. BP may revive the sale of
fields in Alaska after they failed to make it into the Apache
deal, two people with knowledge of the matter said last week.  
 “Asset sales of $30 billion won’t fundamentally change the
company,” said Svanberg. BP estimates the value of all its
assets at about $250 billion, and the sale of the assets may
“give us a chance to come back quickly to dividends,” he said.  
 Still, the company won’t be in a hurry to resume paying its
$10 billion annual dividend, which it suspended for the first
three quarters of this year.  
 “No one’s saying we’re going to rush back into the same
dividend philosophy or character of the company,” said Dudley
on a conference call with investors. “That’s what we’ll do over
time.”  
 New York oil futures averaged $78.05 a barrel in the second
quarter, an increase of 31 percent from a year earlier, boosting
revenue for oil producers.  
 Underlying Profit  
 In the first quarter, BP’s  profit  more than doubled from a
year earlier. In March, the company agreed to buy $7 billion of
assets from Devon Energy Corp. in the Gulf of Mexico, Brazil and
Azerbaijan.  
 Refining margins are also picking up after averaging $5.49
in the second quarter from $3.08 in the first three months of
the year, according to BP.  
 “The underlying performance should be quite okay in a
commodity price environment that’s been supportive in the
quarter and refining margins that held up well,”  Dirk Hoozemans , who helps manage the equivalent of $19.4 billion at
Rotterdam-based Robeco Group and doesn’t hold BP shares, said
before the report was released.  
 Even if most of BP’s global operations are profitable,
Dudley, who will be the first American head of the former U.K.
state oil company, will need to convince politicians BP should
be allowed to keep drilling in the U.S. The Gulf is home to
about 25 of the 40 production projects BP plans by 2015.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Robert Dudley, attends the Boao Forum for Asia. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Mark Kiesel, managing director and global head of corporate bond management at Pacific Investment Management Co., and Alex Morris, an energy analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc., discuss investment strategy for BP Plc's stock and bonds, and the outlook for the company.
     BP appointed U.S.-born Robert Dudley as chief executive officer and pledged to accelerate asset sales to as much as $30 billion after the Gulf of Mexico oil spill led to a record loss. Kiesel and Morris talk with Matt Miller and Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Sydney Finkelstein, a management professor at Dartmouth College's Tuck School of Business, discusses BP Plc’s selection of Robert Dudley to replace Tony Hayward as chief executive officer and the outlook for the company.
     Finkelstein talks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Colin McLean, managing director at SVM Asset Management Ltd., talks about BP Plc's appointment of Robert Dudley to replace Tony Hayward as chief executive officer and the expansion of the oil company's program of asset sales.
     He speaks from Edinburgh with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemaze on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- BP Plc Chairman Carl-Henric Svanberg and newly-named Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley talk with reporters about the company's outlook in the wake of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Outgoing CEO Tony Hayward appeared at the briefing today in London but did not speak. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Pavel Molchanov, analyst at Raymond James & Associates, talks about BP Plc's second-quarter net loss of $17.2 billion reported today.
     Molchanov, speaking with Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop,” also discusses the challenges facing newly-appointed chief executive Robert Dudley. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                           July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Bill Arnold, professor at Rice University's Jones Graduate School of Business, talks about BP Plc's replacement of Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward with Robert Dudley and the company's public image.  
      Arnold talks with Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Philip Weiss, an analyst at Argus Research in New York, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for BP Plc.
     BP’s board approved a plan to name Robert Dudley as chief executive officer, replacing Tony Hayward as the company looks to rebuild after battling the biggest oil spill in U.S. history, two people familiar with the situation said. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Barratt, managing director at Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Barton about BP Plc's decision to replace Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward with Robert Dudley, the director of the company's oil spill response unit.
     BP reported a record loss after taking a charge for the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, the worst in U.S. history. Dudley’s challenge will be to overcome cleanup costs and liabilities from the environmental disaster, which analysts expect will exceed $30 billion. (Barratt spoke before BP released a statement saying Dudley would take over from Hayward on Oct. 1. Interview excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
