-- BP's Dudley Says Appointment Won't Cause Issues for Russian TNK-BP Unit
-- Stephen Bierman
-- 2010-07-27T14:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/bp-s-dudley-says-appointment-won-t-cause-issues-for-russian-tnk-bp-unit.html

          
          
             BP Plc’s incoming Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Dudley  doesn’t expect his appointment to reignite
disputes in TNK-BP and the company’s billionaire shareholders in
the  venture  agree.  
 Dudley will succeed  Tony Hayward  at BP’s top post from Oct.
1, the London-based company said today in a statement. Two years
ago, Dudley, 54, was forced to leave Russia in a battle for
control of the 50-50 venture with the billionaire shareholders.  
 “I sent Bob my congratulations today,” TNK-BP shareholder
 German Khan  said.  
 Moscow-based TNK-BP accounts for about a quarter of BP’s
production, a fifth of reserves and about a tenth of earnings.
In 2008, TNK-BP’s partner AAR, a group of companies owned by
Khan,  Mikhail Fridman ,  Viktor Vekselberg  and  Len Blavatnik ,
called for Dudley’s ouster in a dispute over strategy at
Russia’s third-biggest oil company, alleging he ignored their
interests. Dudley denied the charge.  
 “I worked in Russia for five and a half years with TNK-BP
and was part of building the company with” the Russian owners,
Dudley said today on a conference call with reporters. “I left
with the governance dispute, I’ve remained in contact with them,
the relationships were very professional, I don’t expect that
that cause any issues for us.”  
 BP plans to nominate Hayward as a non-executive director of
TNK-BP, the U.K. producer said today. He will also remain on the
BP board until Nov. 30.  
 No Friction  
 “We also welcome the possibility that Tony Hayward will be
named to the board of TNK-BP,” Khan said. “We think he’s
highly qualified specialist and was the victim of a subjective
situation.”  
 In 2008, workers seconded by  BP  were barred from working in
Moscow, while the successor to the Soviet KGB raided its office
and an employee was charged with industrial espionage. In the
end, Dudley fled the country, citing “sustained harassment”
amid court battles and labor and tax inspections.  
 “Sure we had some friction, but that friction wasn’t of a
personal nature,” Khan said. “In those events that occurred
there isn’t and wasn’t anything personal.”  
 Dudley continued to run TNK-BP from an undisclosed
location, only stepping down as part of a settlement between the
factions reached in September 2008. Dudley had been viewed as a
possible contender to head BP before Hayward succeeded  John Browne  in 2007.  
 Russia Visit  
 Hayward and Dudley will travel to Russia to meet government
officials and business partners, given the country’s importance
to the company,  Vladimir Buyanov , a Moscow-based BP spokesman,
said by telephone. The dates for the visit will be announced
later, he said.  
 BP, which is accelerating as much as $30 billion of asset
sales after the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, isn’t in talks with
its partners on selling its stake in TNK-BP, Khan said. BP is
selling assets over the next 18 months, reducing investment and
cutting the  dividend  to pay the bills after the spill wiped 45
billion pounds ($70 billion) off the company’s market value.  
 BP reported a record  net loss  of $17.2 billion for the
second quarter, after booking a pre-tax charge of $32.2 billion
related to the spill, the worst in U.S. history leak.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Bierman  in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        