-- BP Spill Costs Rile Gulf Towns Shut Out of $20 Billion Fund
-- Jim Snyder
-- 2010-07-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/bp-spill-costs-rile-gulf-governments-shut-out-of-20-billion-feinberg-fund.html

          
          
             Steve Theriot  says he would like to
seek compensation from  Kenneth Feinberg  and the $20 billion
claims fund he oversees for victims of  BP Plc ’s oil spill.  
 If Theriot were a Gulf shrimper, a fisherman or a beach
hotel owner, he could. As president of  Jefferson Parish , a
community in coastal  Louisiana , Theriot has to get payment from
BP, which he says so far has given him “the runaround.”  
 “We’re exposed to losing revenues, and we’re subsidizing
the cleanup apparatus,” Theriot said in an interview. Local
services soon may be impaired by a budget crunch, he said.  
 The parish, with a budget of about $550 million, is
spending $1.5 million to $2 million in overtime for sheriff’s
deputies and public-safety employees in towns such as Grand Isle
and Lafitte to deal with out-of-town workers descending on the
region in response to the spill, Theriot said.  
 BP has paid $245 million in grants to  Louisiana ,
Mississippi, Alabama and Florida for cleanup costs or to promote
tourism, company spokesman Mark Proegler said in an e-mailed
statement. Jefferson Parish has received $1 million, less than
its extra spending.  
 Local officials along the Gulf Coast say the money is
insufficient and the reimbursement process is cumbersome,
leaving budgets pinched. The spill may cost the Gulf region
about $1.2 billion in economic growth by year-end even if the
flow is stopped permanently next month, Moody’s Analytics said
on July 19.  
 ‘Cash-Flow Issue’  
 Officials in  Orange Beach, Alabama , are awaiting word on
$1.7 million in claims, the bulk of it due to revenues lost as
sales and lodging taxes fall, said Clara Myers, the town’s
finance director. The town has received almost $129,000 from BP
to pay for administrative expenses, she said.  
 “It’s a significant cash-flow issue for us,” said Kenneth
Grimes, city administrator.  
 BP will pay all “legitimate” claims, Proegler, who is
based in New Orleans, said. In several cases, the company has
sought information from local officials about their requests, he
said.  
 Feinberg and the claims facility he will run will handle
all private claims. He said July 15 in a meeting with Louisiana
officials that he has pressed to be given responsibility for
public claims as well.  
 Theriot says Feinberg, a Washington lawyer who ran the fund
set up after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, should handle
government claims because of his experience in similar cases.  
 Out of frustration, officials from Dauphin Island, Alabama,
to Naples, Florida, are turning to lobbyists for help.  
 Beach ‘Assembly Line’  
 These communities are “getting lost in the process,” said
Matt Ward, a lobbyist at the  Ferguson Group  in Washington, which
is trying to organize a coalition of 50 Florida  local
governments  to press for more aid.  
 Marlowe & Co. , also based in Washington, helped create the
Northwest Florida Tourist Development Council Coalition, which
includes Walton,  Escambia , Santa Rosa,  Okaloosa , Bay,  Gulf  and
Franklin counties.  
 “Your beaches are your assembly line,” lobbyist Howard
Marlowe told tourism officials in Florida last month.  
 Marlowe said his firm wasn’t charging to lobby for the
spill coalition. Ward of the Ferguson Group said the firm was
seeking to raise money from a non-profit organization to
administer the Gulf spill group.  
 Rodney Grimm, a lobbyist at Springfield, Virginia-based
Monterey Consulting Associates who represents  Dauphin Island, 
said the town on June 8 filed a claim to fill a projected
$850,000 budget gap.  
 The community of 1,600 residents had budgeted revenue of
more than $1.4 million before the spill. Now receipts are
projected to be less than $615,000. BP has resisted paying
because the claim is based on estimated losses, Grimm said.  
 BP Praised  
 In Mississippi, Biloxi Mayor A.J. Holloway credits BP for
doing “what they said they were going to do.”  
 Biloxi has received money to purchase boat trailers and
four-wheel-drive trucks and to hire an engineer to help mitigate
the effects of the spill.  
 Eventually, the economic damage might exceed BP’s reserves,
Holloway said. “How long can BP sustain giving the money out
that they’ve given?” Holloway said in an interview.  
 Farther east in Florida,  Dawn Moliterno , director of the
Beaches of South Walton County, a tourism board, said the
community is waiting to recover $2 million it spent protecting
its white-sand beaches and coastal dune lakes.  
 The county withdrew an additional $3 million from a reserve
fund used after hurricanes to cover its spill response, she
said. The county’s annual budget is about $100 million.  
 Southwest Airlines Routes  
 Walton received $2.7 million from BP to advertise in nearby
Florida cities and outside the state in towns on routes flown by
 Southwest Airlines Co.  to showcase the county’s beaches,
Moliterno said.  
 BP officials have pledged to pay more attention to local
claims this month, after setting up the infrastructure to handle
private claims, she said.  
 As of July 26 the county had yet to be reimbursed for its
expenses, said Michael Willis, a lobbyist at Marlowe & Co.
working with Walton officials. BP’s Proegler said the company
was trying to set up a face-to-face meeting to discuss the
county’s claim.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Administrator of the Gulf Oil Claims Facility Kenneth Feinberg. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Philip Weiss, an analyst at Argus Research in New York, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for BP Plc.
     BP’s board approved a plan to name Robert Dudley as chief executive officer, replacing Tony Hayward as the company looks to rebuild after battling the biggest oil spill in U.S. history, two people familiar with the situation said. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Neal Dingmann, senior vice president at Wunderlich Securities, talks about BP Plc's plan to name Robert Dudley as the company's chief executive officer, replacing Tony Hayward.
     Dudley, 54, was born in New York and grew up in Mississippi, part of the Gulf Coast region suffering environmental and economic damage from the spill. BP on June 23 appointed him to manage its response to the leak. Dingmann speaks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Barratt, managing director at Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Barton about BP Plc's decision to replace Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward with Robert Dudley, the director of the company's oil spill response unit.
     BP reported a record loss after taking a charge for the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, the worst in U.S. history. Dudley’s challenge will be to overcome cleanup costs and liabilities from the environmental disaster, which analysts expect will exceed $30 billion. (Barratt spoke before BP released a statement saying Dudley would take over from Hayward on Oct. 1. Interview excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
