-- BP Unlikely to Sell Venezuelan Assets to Cover Costs for Strategic Reasons
-- Daniel Cancel
-- 2010-07-27T16:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/bp-unlikely-to-sell-venezuelan-assets-to-cover-costs-for-strategic-reasons.html

          
          
             BP Plc , battling to contain the
worst oil spill in U.S. history, is unlikely to sell stakes in
three Venezuelan joint ventures as it seeks to raise cash to pay
for the slick in the Gulf of Mexico, said Richard Obuchi, a
professor at the International Energy Center in Caracas.  
 London-based BP is more likely to keep a presence in South
America’s largest oil producer as a base for future expansion,
Obuchi said yesterday in a phone interview. The Energy Center is
part of the IESA business school.  
 “BP’s investment in Venezuela is very small,” he said in
an interview from Caracas. “They wouldn’t obtain significant
resources from leaving Venezuela and I don’t think their costs
are very elevated either.”  
 BP operates the Petroperija and Boqueron  ventures  as
minority partners with Venezuelan state oil company  Petroleos de
Venezuela SA  including the Petromonagas venture which produces
110,000 barrels a day. BP reported a second-quarter loss of
$17.2 billion today due to costs and liabilities from the leak
in the Gulf. It plans to accelerate asset sales to as much as
$30 billion from an initial $10 billion.  
 A BP spokeswoman in Caracas wasn’t immediately available to
comment on possible asset sales in the country.  
 BP  fell  2 percent to $37.88 today at 12 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock is down 37 percent
since the spill started.  
 “Venezuela isn’t a center of investment for BP, rather a
place they maintain some limited operations to keep a foot in
the door,” said Diego Gonzalez, former head of PDVSA’s natural-
gas division and a member of the Center of Energy Studies at the
Cedice think tank in Caracas. “I don’t think they’ll change
their strategy because when conditions shift, it will be easier
to boost their presence here if they already have operations.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        