-- Bovespa Gains for Seventh Straight Day on Interest-Rate Outlook, Lending
-- Alexander Cuadros
-- 2010-07-27T20:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/brazil-s-bovespa-stock-index-futures-advance-as-commodities-prices-gain.html

          
          
             Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index
advanced for a seventh day, the longest winning streak this
year, as investors speculated interest rates will rise more
slowly and bank lending expanded.  
 Retailer  Lojas Renner SA  and cosmetics maker  Natura
Cosmeticos SA  surged as Brazil’s traders reduced bets for higher
borrowing costs, boosting the outlook for credit demand.  Tele
Norte Leste Participacoes SA  rallied amid speculation Portugal
Telecom SGPS SA will buy a stake in the firm, known as Oi.
Advances were limited as steelmaker  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA 
and iron-ore miner  Vale SA  erased earlier gains after a report
showed U.S. consumers are losing confidence in the economy.  
 The  Bovespa  rose 0.4 percent to 66,674.44 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo at 4 p.m. New York time, after earlier
losing as much as 0.2 percent. Thirty-nine stocks gained on the
measure while 23 fell. The  BM&FBovespa Small Cap  index climbed
0.3 percent. The real weakened 0.4 percent to 1.7689 per dollar.  
 “We’ve been seeing flows into companies tied to the
internal market,” said  Julio Martins , a partner at Adinvest
Consultoria, a Rio de Janeiro-based equity advisory firm.
“People are projecting a somber outlook for commodities. We may
still see some volatility, but in the second half Brazil should
close in the black.”  
 Bank Lending  
 Brazilian bank lending rose for the 16th straight month in
June, expanding 19.7 percent from a year earlier to 1.53
trillion reais ($864.8 billion), according to the central bank.
Lending climbed 2 percent from May, the bank said in a statement
distributed today in Brasilia.  
 Confidence among consumers in the U.S., Brazil’s second-
biggest trading partner, declined in July to a five-month low, a
sign the lack of jobs will limit the economy’s recovery. The
Conference Board’s confidence index fell more than forecast to
50.4, from a revised 54.3 in June, figures from the New York-
based private research group showed today.  
 China’s central bank said today a slowdown in growth will
likely stabilize, helping the nation avoid a slump during the
second half of the year. The country is the biggest buyer of
Brazilian exports.  
 Oi  rose 2.9 percent to 30.60 reais, the highest price since
April 16, after Folha de S. Paulo reported that Brazil’s
government wants the phone company to partner with Portugal
Telecom SGPS SA on a national broadband Internet plan.  
 Portugal Telecom would have a minority stake in Oi,
Brazil’s biggest phone company, the Sao Paulo-based newspaper
reported, without saying where it got the information. Oi would
have a minority stake in the Portuguese company’s operations in
Europe and Africa, Folha said.  
 Luciano Coutinho , president of state-controlled development
bank BNDES, is in charge of the group studying how to carry out
an agreement between Oi and Portugal Telecom, Folha said.  
 ‘Pre-Agreement’  
 Portugal Telecom has no “pre-agreement or agreement” to
buy a stake in Oi, the Lisbon-based carrier said in a regulatory
filing last week. Oi also said in a separate filing it has no
agreement with Portugal Telecom. A spokeswoman for BNDES, who
asked not to be named in line with bank policy, declined to
comment today.  
 Lojas Renner advanced 2 percent to 52.05 reais while Natura
gained 3.4 percent to 42.85 reais, a record.  
 Vale , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, slid 0.4
percent to 41.95 reais while CSN, Brazil’s third-biggest
steelmaker, lost 1.7 percent to 29.14 reais, its first decline
in seven days.  
 The  Bovespa index  trades for 12.9 times analysts’ 2010
earnings estimates, compared with 12.2 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 16
times for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 15.6 times the reported
profits of its companies after fetching 25.5 times in November,
the most in almost six years, weekly data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        