-- California City in Pay Probe Has Higher Tax Than Beverly Hills
-- Christopher Palmeri
-- 2010-07-27T23:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/california-city-in-pay-probe-has-higher-property-taxes-than-beverly-hills.html

          
          
             California Controller  John Chiang 
said his office will conduct a six-week audit of the finances of
Bell, the Los Angeles suburb that paid its city manager almost
$800,000 a year until he resigned last week.  
 Chiang, a Democrat up for re-election in November, said at
a press conference in Bell today that the city’s salaries were
“unjustifiable,” according to his spokesman, Garin Casaleggio.
Chiang’s office will examine all federal and state funds the
city received to make sure the money was spent lawfully,
Casaleggio said.  
 The Los Angeles County District Attorney’s office said it
was looking into allegations first reported in the  Los Angeles
Times  today that Bell police officers collected absentee ballots
and told residents who to vote for in last year’s municipal
election.  
 “We’ve launched a multipronged investigation into several
aspects of the city including the elections,” Jane Robison, a
spokeswoman for the district attorney’s office, said in a
telephone interview.  
 State Attorney General  Jerry Brown  yesterday said he’s
subpoenaed hundreds of employment, salary and contract records
from the city of 38,000 about 10 miles (16 kilometers) southeast
of Los Angeles. The Los Angeles Times reported July 15 that
Chief Administrative Officer  Robert Rizzo  earned $787,637 and
that Bell’s part-time council members made almost $100,000.  
 ‘Citizens are Outraged’  
 “A lot of the citizens are outraged that most of their
taxes are going to pay the highest-paid officials in the
county,” Ali Saleh, a co-founder of the Bell Association to
Stop the Abuse, a newly formed citizens’ group, said in a
telephone interview. “They sold bonds. We have yet to see the
improvements.”  
 Bell has sold six debt issues since 2003, according to last
year’s annual report. The city’s $148 million in total debt
amounts to 10 percent of the total assessed property value and
$3,800 per resident, according to  David Hitchcock , the director
of state and municipal finance at the credit-rating firm
Standard & Poor’s. The per-resident figure is “moderately
high,” according to Hitchcock.  
 The city’s general obligation bonds are rated A-, S&P’s
fourth highest rating.  
 Bell Taxpayers  
 Taxpayers in Bell pay as much as 1.55 percent of their
home’s assessed value in taxes, according to  Wendy Watanabe , Los
Angeles County’s auditor-controller. The average for the county
is 1.16 percent. In  Beverly Hills , where the per-capita income
is nearly four times that of Bell, according to  City-Data.com ,
residents pay 1.19 percent, she said.  
 More than 1,000 people packed the plaza in the center of
town last night, waiting to get inside a 300-seat community
center to call for the resignations of Mayor  Oscar Hernandez  and
the City Council.  
 Police from surrounding cities, including some in riot
gear, stood by as citizens waited to speak at a meeting that
lasted almost six hours. Some residents wept as they talked
about how disappointed they were with their elected officials.  
 “You should be ashamed,” 9-year-old Ephraim Martinez said
from the microphone stand.  “You wrecked our community.”  
 Pay Cut  
 Earlier in the meeting, the council members agreed to cut
their pay to $673 a month. They had earned as much as $100,000
annually by serving on the council and other city boards, the
Los Angeles Times reported. Hernandez and Deputy Mayor  Teresa Jacobo  said they would finish their terms without pay. They said
several times they wouldn’t resign. Rizzo quit on July 23.  
 “Since my first day as mayor, my priority has been to make
Bell a city its residents can be proud to call home,” Hernandez
said in a statement yesterday. “I apologize that the council’s
past decisions with regard to the indefensible administrative
salaries have failed to meet that test.”  
 The Los Angeles Times, citing interviews and records
reviewed by the newspaper, reported today that at the same time
Bell officials were receiving some of the highest salaries in
the nation, the city was cutting spending on police, social
services and parks and recreation.  
 Bell has a largely Latino population with a per-capita
income of $24,800 in 2008, according to the city’s latest annual
report. More than a quarter of its residents live below the
poverty level, according to City-Data.com.  
 Rising Tax Bills  
 Hugo Herrera, a construction foreman and Bell resident,
said in a telephone interview that his  property tax bill  has
increased 70 percent to $3,500 annually over the past 10 years
while his home’s assessed value has risen 27 percent to
$174,000. Most of the increase, he said, is due to an almost
tripling of the share that the city collects to $650.  
 “Everyone’s crazy about that,” Herrera said.  
 Danny Harber, a Bell resident for more than two decades,
said homeowners were more inclined to vote for tax increases to
pay for added services and city improvements when their property
values were rising.  
 “When your house price is rising 20 percent a year, what’s
another $750?” Haber said. “Now it’s a different story.”  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     California  State Attorney General Jerry Brown said he’s subpoenaed hundreds of employment, salary and contract records from the city of Bell, 10 miles southeast of Los Angeles. Photographer: Noah Berger/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
