-- Cameron Urges India to Cut Trade Barriers, Boost Jobs
-- Kitty Donaldson
-- 2010-07-28T09:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/cameron-urges-india-to-lift-barriers-to-trade-to-create-thousands-of-jobs.html

          
          
             U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
urged India to remove barriers to free trade to create thousands
of jobs in both countries.  
 Cameron is visiting the southern city of Bangalore, India’s
technology hub, with a delegation that includes 39 business
leaders and four members of his Cabinet. The premier is seeking
to sell Britain as a place for Indian companies to do business
while asking India to create opportunities for U.K. investors.  
 “We want you to reduce the barriers to foreign investment
in banking, insurance, defense, manufacturing and legal services
-- and reap the benefits,” Cameron said in a speech at  Infosys
Technologies Ltd. , India’s No. 2 software-services provider.
“More investment in each others’ economies will be a vital
boost to both our countries.”  
 The threat to the British economy from the euro-region debt
crisis and the need to cut the  budget deficit  prompted Cameron
to focus foreign policy on trade and investment. India’s
government estimates this year’s growth will be the fastest in
three years. Global negotiators have been in talks since 2001 to
lift trade barriers in emerging economies such as India because
they’ve been unable to reach agreement on farm subsidies.  
 Cameron also visited the Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd.
headquarters in Bangalore, where  BAE Systems Plc  and Rolls-Royce
Group Plc signed an agreement valued at about 700 million pounds
($1.1 billion) to supply 57 Hawk pilot-trainer aircraft to
India.  
 ‘Generate Growth’  
 In his speech, Cameron said that Indian plans to invest
more than $750 million in infrastructure in the coming years are
“good for Indian business, but it is also a chance for British
companies to generate growth.”  
 Business Secretary  Vince Cable  said today he would allow
British companies to seek access to India’s civilian nuclear
industry, marking a change in government policy.  
 “There is already a declaration under which a certain
amount of modest research can take place -- we want to take this
to a higher level,” Cable told reporters in Bangalore. “There
are British companies like Rolls-Royce, Serco and others that
could do a large amount of business in India.”  
 Cameron cited the “deep and close connections” between
the two nations. India gained independence from Britain in 1947,
and almost 2 million people of Indian origin live in the U.K.  
 “I want this to be a relationship which drives economic
growth upwards, and drives our  unemployment  figures downwards,”
Cameron said. “I want to see more Indians setting up in Britain
and more Brits setting up over here.”  
 ‘Spirit of Humility’  
 In an article for the Chennai-based  Hindu  newspaper
published today, the prime minister said he’d come to India “in
a spirit of humility,” aware that “Britain cannot rely on
sentiment and shared history for a place in India’s future.”  
 Cameron said he’s traveling with “the biggest visiting
delegation of any British prime minister in recent memory” and
that he is “selling” Britain to the world again “with more
vigor than ever.”  
 Business leaders on the trip include BAE Systems Plc
Chairman  Richard Olver ;  Michael Queen , chairman of 3i Group Plc;
 John Varley , chief executive officer of Barclays Plc; Vodafone
Group Plc CEO  Vittorio Colao ; and  Stuart Popham , senior partner
at international law firm Clifford Chance LLP.  
 Foreign lawyers are lobbying the Indian government to be
able to give corporate advice to Indian clients. Barclays plans
to quadruple the amount of money it manages for rich clients in
South and Southeast Asia in the next five years, the London-
based bank said last month.  
 Immigration Curbs  
 While Cameron is calling on India to open up its markets,
his Conservative-led coalition government is planning a cap on
non-European Union immigrant labor at home. That has led to
criticism from the Indian government, with Commerce and Industry
Minister  Anand Sharma  warning the quota might hit Indian
doctors, nurses and engineers seeking employment in the U.K.  
 The proposal is also at odds with the views of Cameron’s
Liberal Democrat coalition partners. Cable told Indian
journalists before the trip that he wants a “liberal”
immigration policy.  
 Cable defended his position today, arguing that it is his
role in government to raise the concerns of business.  
 The issue has been “raised with me by Indian businesses
and not just Indian businesses,” Cable told reporters in
Bangalore. “The answer to them is we are trying to achieve a
balance.”  
 ‘Light Touch’  
 “We want flexibility, we want these regulations when they
come in to be administered with a light touch,” Cable said.  
 India is the second-largest foreign investor in Britain
after the U.S., with Indian-owned businesses generating more
than 14.4 billion pounds of sales in the year ending March 2010,
according to the Indian  Commerce Ministry . Mumbai-based Tata
Motors owns the Jaguar and Land Rover brands and Tata Steel Ltd.
owns U.K. steelmaker Corus Group Ltd.  
 While the U.K. ranks fourth among foreign investors in
India, its share of the total is just 5 percent in rupee terms.  
 Indian exports to the U.K. fell 0.8 percent to $6.6 billion
in the year ended March 31, ministry figures show. Imports from
Britain during the period rose 18.5 percent to $5.9 billion.  
 Cameron also called on India today to reach agreement on a
free-trade deal with the EU by the end of the year and to make
progress on a global trade accord. The so-called Doha Round of
talks collapsed in July 2008.  
 “It’s time to hammer out a global deal on trade,” Cameron
said. “Agree on Doha, and do you know how much we would add to
the world economy? $170 billion.”  
 Away from business, Cameron said he wants to broaden a
partnership with India on countering terrorism before the
Commonwealth Games in New Delhi this year and the 2012 London
Olympics.  
 After his visit to Bangalore, Cameron will travel on to New
Delhi for a meeting with Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
tomorrow.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in Bangalore, India, at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     British Prime Minister David Cameron listens during a meeting. Photographer: Christopher Furlong-WPA Pool/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
