-- Cameron Heads to India With BAE, Barclays, 3i to Strengthen Business Ties
-- Bibhudatta Pradhan
-- 2010-07-27T10:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/cameron-heads-to-india-with-bae-barclays-3i-to-strengthen-business-ties.html

          
          
             U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
arrives in India today after a stop in Turkey accompanied by 39
executives from companies such as  BAE Systems Plc  and  Vodafone
Group Plc  to spur trade with Asia’s third-largest economy.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  are also travelling with Cameron, who
will visit the Bangalore campus of Infosys Technologies Ltd.,
India’s No. 2 software-services provider tomorrow. He meets a
day later in New Delhi with Indian counterpart  Manmohan Singh .  
 A threat to British exports to Europe from the euro area’s
sovereign-debt crisis prompted Cameron to focus British foreign
policy to focus on trade and investment. Ernst & Young LLP’s
Item Club yesterday cut U.K.  growth  forecasts, while India’s
government is estimating this year’s economic expansion will be
the fastest in three years.  
 “Cameron’s visit provides a good opportunity to revitalize
the relationship and make it a little more meaningful,”  Lalit Mansingh , a former Indian foreign-ministry official and
ambassador to the U.S., said in New Delhi. “The U.K., in its
present state of economic crisis, is looking at India for
support and cooperation” and the expectations are mutual, he
said.  
 In a speech today in Ankara, Turkey, Cameron said he wanted
to double trade with Turkey, currently $9 billion a year, in the
next five years.  
 ‘Wealth Creator’  
 “We cannot let the protectionists win,” he said. “The truth
is that trade is the biggest wealth creator we’ve ever known,
and it’s the biggest stimulus we can give our economies right
now.”  
 India, which gained its independence from the U.K. in 1947,
is the second-largest foreign investor in Britain after the
U.S., with Indian-owned businesses generating more than 14.4
billion pounds ($23 billion) of sales in the year ending March
2010, according to the Indian Commerce Ministry. Mumbai-based
Tata Motors owns the Jaguar and Land Rover brands and Tata Steel
Ltd. owns U.K. steelmaker Corus Group Ltd.  
 While the U.K. ranks fourth among foreign investors in
India, its share of the total is just 5 percent in rupee terms.  
 Indian exports to the U.K. fell 0.8 percent to $6.6 billion
in the year ended March 31, 2010, according to the Indian
 Commerce Ministry . Imports from Britain during the period rose
18.5 percent to $5.9 billion. About 70 Indian companies trade on
the London stock exchange.  
 ‘Something Concrete’  
 “The Indians will want something concrete out of this,”
said  Gareth Price , head of the Asia Program at  Chatham House 
research institute in London. “If he and his Indian counterpart
just sign another piece of paper and shake hands, that will not
be a good result.”  
 The U.K.’s economy will expand 2.2 percent next year,
compared with an earlier 2.7 percent prediction, Ernst & Young
said yesterday. Revival from recession will be “slow” and
“patchy” as gross domestic product climbs 1 percent this year,
the firm said. India’s  growth  may accelerate to 8.5 percent in
the 12 months ending March 31, the finance ministry said.  
 Cameron, during a trip that follows a visit to Washington
last week, may also help BAE Systems clinch a deal to supply 57
more Hawk jet trainers for the Indian Air Force in a contract
valued at about 94 billion rupees ($2 billion), the Times of
India reported on July 25. The jets would be built at Hindustan
Aeronautics Ltd., a state-owned aircraft maker, which Cameron
will visit in Bangalore as well.  
 Visiting CEOs  
 Business leaders visiting India as part of Cameron’s
delegation include BAE Chairman  Richard Olver ,  Michael Queen ,
chief executive officer of 3i Group Plc,  John Varley , CEO of
Barclays Plc and Vodafone CEO  Vittorio Colao , and  Anshu Jain ,
U.K.-based head of corporate and investment banking at Deutsche
Bank AG.  
 Lawyers in the U.K. are lobbying the Indian government to
allow foreign nationals to practice in its courts. Barclays
plans to quadruple the amount of money it manages for rich
clients in South and Southeast Asia in the next five years, the
London-based bank said last month.  
 “Indian business leaders are keen to see a rapid rise in
trade and investment ties between the two countries,” said
 Rajan Bharti Mittal , president of the Federation of Indian
Chambers of Commerce and Industry in New Delhi. “The visit will
galvanize the prime minister’s call for ‘enhanced partnership’
with India.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The U.K.’s economy will expand 2.2 percent next year  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.K. prime minister David Cameron. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.K. prime minister David Cameron. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
