-- Campaign-Spending Bill Blocked in U.S. Senate by Republicans
-- Jonathan D. Salant
-- 2010-07-27T19:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/campaign-spending-disclosure-bill-is-blocked-in-u-s-senate-by-republicans.html

          
          
             Senate Republicans today blocked
legislation that would require corporations and unions to
disclose their spending on political advertising.  
 All 41 Republican senators voted to prevent the bill from
reaching the Senate floor. The vote was 57-41, with 60 votes
needed to advance the measure.  
 Senate Democrats proposed the bill in response to a U.S.
Supreme Court decision in January that overturned a decades-old
ban on companies using general-treasury money to run campaign
ads supporting or opposing candidates in federal elections.
Democrats argued that if such spending is to be allowed, it
should be disclosed.  
 “Neither the American voter at home nor the democratic
process at large benefits from campaigns funded by secret
sponsors who are hidden from public view,” Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada told reporters before the vote.
“Senate Republicans are now running away from transparency and
accountability in our elections.”  
 Among the senators voting to block the bill was Republican
 John McCain  of Arizona, whose landmark 2002 campaign finance law
was partially ruled unconstitutional by the Supreme Court
decision. McCain’s co-sponsor, Wisconsin Democrat  Russell Feingold , had urged people in an e-mail to call their senators
and ask them to support the legislation.  
 Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky said
the legislation was an attack on free-speech rights and would
silence those who disagreed with the Democratic majority. “The
one goal is to get people who would criticize them to stop
talking,” he said.  
 Issue Ads  
 Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat and the bill’s
chief sponsor, said no one’s ability to speak would be
diminished.  
 “All we are saying is, if you attack us, put your name on
the ad,” Schumer said. He told reporters that Democrats will
“go back at this bill again and again and again until we pass
it. It’s that vital.”  
 The bill would affect all political advertising, including
issue ads that are designed to elect particular candidates
without directly asking voters to support or oppose them. It
also would require companies to disclose donations to third-
party groups that air campaign ads.  
 Corporations and unions seeking to support candidates had
previously been required to spend through regulated political
action committees. Companies are still banned from contributing
directly to candidates.  
 President  Barack Obama  criticized the Supreme Court
decision in his State of the Union address, and yesterday he
urged Republicans to let the measure come to the floor. The vote
is “about how much influence special interests should have over
our democracy,” he said.  
 Chamber of Commerce  
 The bill would require trade associations like the  U.S.
Chamber of Commerce  to reveal for the first time which companies
are funding their political ads. The chamber led an effort to
defeat the legislation, sending a letter to the Senate yesterday
signed by 309 organizations.  
 Union-funded organizations running ads for or against
candidates also would have to disclose their donors.  
 Supporters of the legislation, which passed the House in
June, unsuccessfully sought support from moderate Republicans
including  Scott Brown  of Massachusetts and  Olympia Snowe  and
 Susan Collins  of Maine in an effort to bring the bill to the
Senate floor.  
 “The court’s decision has left no choice but to enact new
disclosure laws,” said Lisa Gilbert, who handles campaign
finance issues for the Boston-based  U.S. Public Interest
Research Group , which supports stronger campaign finance laws.
“This bill is necessary to protect the integrity of our
elections.”  
 The measure would bar political spending by companies with
more than $10 million in government contracts and institutions
that haven’t repaid money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program
passed in 2008.  
 Foreign-owned corporations also would be barred from
political spending, though the ban wouldn’t apply to their U.S.
subsidies’ political action committees.  
 The bill is S. 3628.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Democrat from Nevada. Photographer: Melissa Golden/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
