-- Canada Won't Alter National-Census Plans Despite Protests, Clement Says
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-07-27T15:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/canada-won-t-alter-national-census-plans-despite-protests-clement-says.html

          
          
             Canadian Industry Minister  Tony Clement , who’s responsible for Ottawa-based Statistics Canada,
said the government won’t alter its plans to change a national
census form after the chief statistician quit in protest.  
 “The government should not threaten people with
prosecution when collecting detailed private and personal
data,” Clement told a Parliamentary committee in Ottawa today.  
 The Parliament’s  Industry Committee  is also hearing from
groups including academics and minority groups who say keeping
the previous census procedure is needed to get accurate results.
The government has said Canada’s next census, to be taken in
May, won’t include a mandatory long-form questionnaire such as
the one that had previously been sent to a fifth of households.  
 Referring to census takers, Clement also said, “it is part
of their repertoire to threaten jail time and threaten fines.”  
 Munir Sheikh , the head of Statistics Canada, resigned last
week, saying that a voluntary survey can’t be a substitute for
the mandatory portion of the country’s census. Canada’s three
opposition parties are against the census changes, and have
 enough votes  to topple the Conservative administration, or
change laws if they join forces.  
 ‘Reputation Has Suffered’  
 “When doubts began to be expressed about the nature of the
advice that we gave, which to any statistician would come across
as not the work of a statistician, I came to the conclusion that
I cannot be the head of an agency whose reputation has
suffered,” Sheikh told the committee.  
 Sheikh, whose voice quavered with emotion during his
testimony, also said some groups like aboriginals, visible
minorities and immigrants have low response rates in voluntary
surveys.  
 While the agency can correct results it gets on its other
surveys by comparing with the census data, that won’t be
possible once the census itself becomes voluntary, he said.  
 Instead of the mandatory form, Statistics Canada  will  send
a  voluntary form  covering most of the same topics as the
previous form as part of a new National Household Survey.  
 The  long form  part of the 2006 census included questions on
ethnicity, employment, income, languages spoken at home,
education and other topics.  
 “I am willing to acknowledge here that institutions,
private-sector businesses, banks love to get this data,”
Clement said. “They would love to have the status quo,
absolutely. What we’re trying to do is find a way to balance
their desire for more and more information and more and more
data with those Canadians who have concerns.”  
 The opposition Liberal Party has said it would seek to
amend the  Statistics Act  when Parliament reconvenes in September
to make the questionnaire mandatory again.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        