-- Central Chile Power Outage Hits Santiago, Disrupts Some Copper Mines
-- Randy Woods
-- 2010-07-27T18:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/central-chile-power-outage-hits-santiago-disrupts-some-copper-mines.html

          
          
             Chile’s second electricity outage in
less than two weeks disrupted copper mines owned by Codelco and
 Antofagasta Plc  and left some neighborhoods in capital Santiago
without power.  
 A substation failure at 10:46 a.m. New York time led to
cuts on the central interconnected grid. Supply had been
restored to 90 percent of affected consumers as of 12:30 p.m.,
the grid’s supervisor said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The government will consider fines for the companies
responsible and may review maintenance procedures, Energy
Minister  Ricardo Raineri  told reporters today. A transmission
failure caused cuts in Santiago on July 19. The country
continues to replace power equipment after an earthquake in
February led to a blackout in March, Raineri said.  
 “Measuring the economic impact of an outage like this is
difficult,”  Matias Madrid , chief economist at Banco Penta, said
in a telephone interview from Santiago. “On a macro, aggregate
level--looking at industrial production--it’s not likely the
outage will have a major impact.”  
 State-owned Codelco said a 10-minute power cut temporarily
halted operations at its Salvador and Andina divisions.
Codelco’s other mines weren’t affected, it wrote in an e-mailed
statement, without commenting on production.  
 Los Pelambres  
 Antofagasta Plc’s  Los Pelambres  copper mine also lost
power, Oliver Winters, an external spokesman at London-based
public relations company Bankside, said. Operations will be back
to normal by the end of the day, he said by telephone.  
 Anglo American Plc, the third-largest producer of copper in
Chile, said by e-mail that its operations weren’t affected. Oil
refineries owned by Empresa Nacional del Petroleo were operating
normally, a company official briefed on the matter, who declined
to be named citing company policy, said by telephone.  
 Codelco’s largest copper operations and mines owned by BHP
Billiton Ltd. are in northern Chile, which is supplied by a
separate power grid.  
 A blackout on March 14 left 80 percent of the population in
a 2,000-kilometer (1,243-mile) stretch of the country with no
electricity, the result of grid damage from February’s 8.8-
magnitude earthquake.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Eduardo Thomson  at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Randy Woods  at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        