-- Chalco Shares Suspended as Parent Chinalco Hosts Signing Ceremony Tomorrow
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-28T17:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/chalco-s-shares-to-be-suspended-from-tomorrow-on-important-discussion-.html

          
          
             Aluminum Corporation of China Ltd. ,
the nation’s biggest producer of the metal, suspended its shares
from trading ahead of a signing ceremony also attended by Rio
Tinto Group in Beijing tomorrow.  
 The Chinese company’s parent Aluminum Corp. of China, known
as Chinalco, announced the event without giving details of the
agreement. Rio will attend the ceremony starting at 3:30 p.m.
local time, according to an invitation seen by Bloomberg News.  
 Chinalco in March signed a non-binding accord to pay $1.35
billion for a stake in Rio’s Simandou iron ore project in
Guinea. The state-owned company is “watching closely” for
opportunities to invest in other projects abroad, including Oyu
Tolgoi, a Mongolian copper venture between Rio and Ivanhoe Mines
Ltd.,  Xiong Weiping , chairman of both Chinalco and its unit,
known as Chalco, said on March 29.  
 Chinalco would fund its purchase of a 44.65 percent stake
in Simandou, described by Rio as the world’s “top” undeveloped
iron-ore deposit, by financing development over the next two to
three years, the U.K. company said March 19. Simandou has 2.25
billion metric tons of resources, Rio said on March 15.  
 Rio, based in London, stated in March it had already spent
$600 million on exploration and development work after saying in
2007 that it may invest at least $6 billion on Simandou.  
 Rio is working to repair relations with Chinalco, its
largest shareholder, which were soured last year when it
scrapped a $19.5 billion investment by the Chinese company and
four Rio employees were arrested in Shanghai.  
 Chalco’s shares are expected to resume trading in Hong Kong
and Shanghai on July 30, the Beijing-based company said in a
statement. Rio rose 1 percent to 3,387.5 pence at the 4:35 p.m.
close in London.  
 Tony Shaffer , a Rio spokesman based in London, declined to
comment. Yuan Li, head of communications with Chinalco, also
declined to comment on the signing ceremony.  
 Companies in China, the world’s biggest metals consumer,
spent more than $30 billion buying up mines and oil deposits
globally last year.  
 -- Rebecca Keenan ,  Jesse Riseborough  and  Helen Yuan . Editors:
 Tony Barrett ,  Dan Weeks   
 To contact the Bloomberg staff responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        