-- China Regulators, Officials Aim to Ease Local Finance Vehicle Loan Concern
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-27T09:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/china-regulators-officials-aim-to-ease-local-finance-vehicle-loan-concern.html

          
          
             China’s banking regulator tried to
ease concern over risks from bank lending to local government
financing vehicles, saying such loans won’t necessarily go bad.  
 The China Banking Regulatory Commission said in a statement
that risks can be contained through measures to secure repayment.
Such loans are typically backed by collateral and guarantees, it
said today. Separately, Finance  Minister   Xie Xuren  said local
governments should improve their financial management.  
 Chinese banks may struggle to recoup about 23 percent of
the 7.7 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) lent to finance local
infrastructure projects, according to a person with knowledge of
data collected by the CBRC. The estimate implies about $260
billion of debt may go sour, almost five times the amount the
nation’s five largest banks are raising to replenish capital.  
 “We should assume the real problem is worse than the
initial evaluation,” said  Michael Pettis , a finance professor
at Peking University in Beijing and former head of emerging
markets at Bear Stearns & Cos. in e-mailed comments today. “And
there is likely to be more to come.”  
 Local governments set up the financing vehicles to fund
projects such as highways and airports due to limits on their
ability to directly borrow money. The central government this
year restricted borrowing on concern money isn’t being used for
viable projects.  
 ‘Strong Impulse’  
 China has more than 1,000 county-level governments and
hundreds of city and municipal councils that receive revenue
from local taxes, land sales and central-government transfers.
Many tapped banks during China’s credit-fueled stimulus last
year.  
 “Local government at all levels need financing,”  Dagong
Global Credit Rating Co.  Chairman Guan Jianzhong said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday. “They have a very
strong impulse to borrow. As issuers, they will do everything
they can to hide the risks. In order to reveal those risks, we
need a good credit-ratings system.”  
 Credit ratings assigned to yuan-denominated bonds issued on
behalf of local government-backed companies in China don’t
reflect risks investors face, Guan said.  
 Finance Minister Xie said local governments should improve
their budgets with better planning and regulation, according to
a  statement  on the Ministry of Finance website.  
 “Right now China’s commercial banks have adequate
provisions and they have good capability to control risks,” the
banking regulator said in the statement.  
 ‘Serious Risks’  
 The regulator, led by Chairman  Liu Mingkang , said today
loans that have been described in media reports as having
“serious repayment risks” won’t necessarily become non-
performing. The watchdog didn’t name the media reports.  
 CBRC’s Liu said last week borrowing by local government
financing vehicles may threaten the banking industry.  
 Only 27 percent of loans to the financing vehicles can be
repaid in full by cash generated by the projects they funded,
the person with knowledge of data collected by the CBRC said.  
 -- Henry Sanderson , with assistance by  Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing.
Editors:  Joost Akkermans ,  Tom Kohn   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Sanderson  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       China has more than 1,000 county-level governments  
                       
                         
                           Simon Dawson/Pool/Bloomberg 
                         
                         China's finance minister Xie Xuren. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     China's finance minister Xie Xuren. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Pool/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
