-- China Central Bank Says Slowing Economy to Stabilize, Fundamentals `Good'
-- Sophie Leung
-- 2010-07-27T12:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/china-central-bank-says-slowing-economy-to-stabilize-fundamentals-good-.html

          
          
             China’s central bank said the
slowdown in growth in the world’s third-largest economy will
likely stabilize, helping the nation avoid a slump during the
second half of the year.  
 The economy’s fundamentals remain “good,” the  People’s
Bank of China  said on its website today. China’s decreasing
dependence on exports also means the European debt crisis is
unlikely to have a large impact, the central bank said in its
report for the second quarter.  
 President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged last
week to maintain policy stability in the second half after
measures to rein in property prices, inflation and bank lending
eased second-quarter growth to  10.3 percent  from 11.9 percent in
the first. The slowdown is consistent with a “soft-landing”
that leads the central bank to keep interest rates unchanged
until the second quarter of 2011, UBS AG said today.  
 “Fears about things like inflation, also the extent that
the European crisis will hurt China, have diminished,” said
 Mark Williams , senior China economist at Capital Economics Ltd.
in London. “China policy makers have to their advantage that
they have a lot of room to loosen policy if they need to, so I
think there’s concrete reason to be fairly confident about how
things are going to go over the next six to 12 months.”  
 The central bank is cautiously optimistic about the Chinese
economy, according to today’s  statement .  
 Inflation Risks  
 China needs to remain alert to inflation risks, it said.
Rising labor costs, a return to increases in food prices and
time-lags in the effects of monetary and credit expansions are
reasons to be cautious, according to the statement.  
 Inflation, after easing to 2.9 percent in June, may climb
above 3 percent in the next few months before falling at the end
of this year, UBS economist  Wang Tao  wrote in a report
distributed today. Economic growth in China may slow to between
8 percent and 8.5 percent in the fourth quarter, with a full-
year expansion of between 9.5 percent and 10 percent, cooling to
8.7 percent in 2011, she wrote.  
 The Chinese government aims to limit full-year inflation to
3 percent. It also targets a maximum of 7.5 trillion yuan ($1.1
trillion) of new loans this year, down from a record 9.59
billion yuan in 2009.  
 At the current pace of  lending , that goal will be met,
the central bank said.  
 The global economy is continuing to improve and demand from
recovering economies can compensate for a possible decline in
exports to Europe, the central bank said. The proportion of
Chinese exports going to the U.S., Japan and Europe has been
falling as trade becomes more diversified, it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 Sleung59@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        