-- China's Equities `Near the Bottom' as Policy Concerns Ease, Citigroup Says
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-07-27T02:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/china-s-equities-near-the-bottom-as-policy-concerns-ease-citigroup-says.html

          
          
             China’s  stock market , the worst
performer in Asia this year, is “near the bottom” and may
rally as much as 14 percent as policy tightening concerns ease
amid slowing economic growth, according to Citigroup Inc.  
 The Shanghai A-Share Stock Price Index, which rose 0.7
percent to 2,713.20 yesterday, will probably reach 2,800 to
3,100 before the end of the year, outperforming gains in Hong
Kong-traded Chinese stocks, analyst  Minggao Shen  wrote in a
report. Still, the market may be “mixed” in the near term
before being spurred by a “liquidity rally,” he said.  
 “Policy headwinds that had caused turbulence in the market
are finally settling, along with downward trending economic
growth,” wrote Shen. Citigroup was jointly ranked second in
Institutional Investor’s inaugural All China research team poll
this year.  
 The A-share index and the broader  Shanghai Composite Index 
have both slumped 22 percent in 2010 after the government
increased downpayment requirements on home sales and ordered
banks to set aside more deposits as reserves. Both gauges have
climbed almost 9 percent from this year’s low set on July 5 on
speculation property curbs will be eased as growth tapers off.  
 China’s  economic growth  slowed to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter from an 11.9 percent increase in the January to
March period. Data released this month also showed property
prices in 70 Chinese cities fell 0.1 percent in June from the
previous month and banking lending cooled last month.  
 ‘Subtle Shift’  
 China will maintain stability in its economic policies in
the second half of the year, Premier Wen Jiabao said in a speech
in Beijing July 16. UBS AG economist Tao Wang said in a report
the speech signaled a “subtle shift” in government policies and
that no additional tightening measures will be introduced.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said yesterday it’s still
“fundamentally positive” on A shares even after this month’s
surge, given their valuations and the emergence of several
catalysts. The Shanghai Composite, down 0.5 percent to 2,575 at
10:23 a.m., is headed for its best monthly gain in a year.  
 China’s economy may bottom in the fourth quarter of 2010 or
the first quarter of 2011, Citigroup’s Shen said. He recommends
investors to be “overweight” in consumer, insurance,
transportation, health-care, auto, technology and electrical
machinery and equipment shares.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his investment strategy for Chinese banks. 
     Chinese banks may struggle to recoup about 23 percent of the 7.7 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) they’ve lent to finance local government infrastructure projects, according to a person with knowledge of data collected by the nation’s regulator. About half of all loans need to be serviced by secondary sources including guarantors because the ventures can’t generate sufficient revenue, the person said, declining to be identified because the information is confidential. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
