-- China's Shares to Rally as Curbs Relaxed, JPMorgan Asset Management Says
-- Hanny Wan
-- 2010-07-27T10:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/china-s-a-shares-to-rally-as-rates-on-hold-jpmorgan-asset-management-says.html

          
          
             China’s yuan-denominated shares are
“due for a catch up” in the second half of this year as the
nation delays further measures to curb property prices, said
JPMorgan Asset Management’s  Emerson Yip .  
 Yip, a Hong Kong-based fund manager for JPMorgan Asset’s
Greater China team, said he’s considering buying more so-called
A shares as evidence mounts that the People’s Bank of China will
hold off from raising interest rates. He declined to say what
stocks he may buy or when he may do so.  
 “I’m not saying they will catch up right at this moment,
but anecdotally we get a feel that sentiment has stabilized,”
Yip, whose firm oversees almost $1.2 trillion of assets, told
reporters in Hong Kong today. “People are now contemplating how
to buy into the market and what to buy, whereas previously they
were thinking whether or not to sell.”  
 Speculation that measures to control property prices and
rising consumer prices will damp earnings has dragged down the
 Shanghai Composite Index  by 21 percent in 2010. The gauge, which
tracks the bigger of China’s stock exchanges, is the second-
worst performer this year among 93 global benchmark indexes
tracked by Bloomberg.  
 China’s economic growth slowed to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter from an 11.9 percent increase in the January to
March period. Property prices in 70 Chinese cities rose 11.4
percent in June from a year earlier, slower than May’s 12.4
percent, according to statistics bureau data.  
 Construction Bank, TSMC  
 “Sentiment was very negative,” Yip said. “Whether it was
individual investors or fund managers, they reacted quickly to
the slowdown in China’s economic growth, and hence we saw the
market decline.”  
 Yip’s  Greater China Fund  is down 4.8 percent this year
through July 21, less than the 5.2 percent drop in the  MSCI
China Index . China Construction Bank Corp., the nation’s second-
largest lender, and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the
world’s largest maker of customized chips, were his fund’s two
 largest holdings  as of May 31.  
 The earliest China will lift interest rates will be 2011,
and the country maintain its “supportive” monetary policy for
the rest of this year, Yip said.  
 “For the second half of the year, A shares are due for a
catch up phase,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        