-- CIT Group's Thain Posts Second Profitable Quarter, Plans to Refinance Debt
-- David Henry
-- 2010-07-27T20:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/cit-posts-second-profitable-quarter-after-bankruptcy-aided-by-asset-sales.html

          
          
             CIT Group Inc. , the commercial
lender run by Chief Executive Officer  John A. Thain , posted its
second straight quarterly profit since emerging from bankruptcy
and said the firm will repay or refinance $4 billion of debt.  
 Second-quarter net income was $142.1 million, or 71 cents a
diluted share, according to a statement today from New York-
based CIT. That beat the 36-cent  average  estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, adjusted for one-time items.
Results aren’t directly comparable with those before CIT’s
bankruptcy reorganization.  
 CIT’s  turnaround  may get a boost this week as the company
starts talks to refinance about $3 billion of high-cost debt
with lower rates and less-restrictive conditions. Some of CIT’s
obligations carried interest rates of 13 percent. The company
retired $3 billion of debt during the quarter and expects to
repay about $1 billion more before refinancing.  
 “There is an opportunity today to do it on attractive
terms,” said Thain, who disclosed the plan during an earnings
conference call today. Bank of America Corp., Deutsche Bank AG
and Morgan Stanley will hold a meeting July 29 in New York to
market the five-year loan, according to people familiar with the
transaction. CIT spokesman  Curt Ritter  declined to comment.  
 CIT’s book value, the difference between its liabilities
and its assets, increased 48 cents a share to $43.11, compared
with an increase of 64 cents in the first quarter.  
 Share Reaction  
 CIT fell 84 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $38.16 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares
advanced 38 percent this year. The firm sought  court protection 
in 2009 after clients defaulted and investors shunned its
commercial paper.  
 “The mantra is, beat earnings and pay down debt,” said
analyst  Henry J. Coffey Jr ., of Birmingham, Alabama-based
brokerage Stern Agee & Leach Inc., before today’s announcement.
In the first quarter, the lender reported a surprise profit,
aided by accounting gains tied to early repayments from
borrowers. Coffey  rates  CIT “buy.”  
 Second-quarter results were lifted by $407 million of
pretax benefits tied to the bankruptcy accounting, according to
the statement. Gains on sales of assets and recoveries of
charged-off receivables more than compensated for a higher
provision for credit losses and the cost of an employee-
retention program.  
 Shrinking the Company  
 Total assets declined $3.1 billion to $54.9 billion as the
company sold holdings and collected on loans.  
 “We improved our funding flexibility, repaid higher cost
debt, streamlined our  portfolio  and largely completed the build-
out of our senior management team,” Thain said in the
statement.  
 Thain, who was named CEO in February, has been shrinking
the company and wants to replace CIT’s reliance on capital
markets with less-expensive  sources  of funds, such as bank
deposits. He’s been asking regulators to lift curbs that prevent
CIT from tapping certain types of deposits.  
 One impediment to winning approval from agencies such as
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is the need for CIT to
upgrade its risk controls, Thain said.  
 “Many of the Fed’s issues with us have to do with risk-
management systems and information systems,” Thain said. “The
time-frame to get the systems in order is going to be at least
12 months.”  
 Earnings Impact  
 The deficiencies are also a drag on profits, he said. CIT
“will probably carry what will look like relatively high amounts
of cash” until executives are “comfortable” with the systems,
Thain said. The cost of the remedies is one reason CIT’s rising
ratio of expenses to assets “will be an issue for us for at
least a little while,” he said.  
 CIT previously disclosed at least four financing facilities
this year through which investors have provided more than
$2 billion for certain types of lending, such as equipment
loans. The trade finance unit’s loss narrowed and attrition of
customers eased, the statement said.  
 Small- and medium-size companies that are CIT’s core
customers remain reluctant to use their credit lines amid a weak
economy, Thain said. “They are being very cautious,” he said.
“They are not drawing on the lines. They are not hiring people.
They are not spending money on plant, property and equipment.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Henry  in New York at 
 dhenry19@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        