-- Thain's CIT Seeks $3 Billion Term Loan Led by Bank of America to Cut Costs
-- Emre Peker
-- 2010-07-27T20:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/cit-will-meet-lenders-on-july-29-to-arrange-3-billion-of-first-lien-debt.html

          
          
             CIT Group Inc. , the commercial
lender that emerged from bankruptcy in December, will meet with
lenders this week to arrange $3 billion of first-lien debt as
Chief Executive Officer  John A. Thain  seeks to reduce costs on
some of its loans by almost 50 percent.  
 Bank of America Corp., Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley
will hold a meeting July 29 in New York to market the five-year
loan, according to people familiar with the transaction.
Initial price guidance on the proposed debt is 5 percentage
points more than the London interbank offered rate, with a
1.75 percent Libor floor, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the terms are private.  
 CIT, which posted its second straight quarterly  profit 
since exiting Chapter 11 protection, needs to lower its cost of
funding after arranging the previous loan last year at rates as
high as 13 percent to avoid collapse. Thain, who was named chief
executive officer in February, has been shrinking the New York-
based lender and trying to raise less-expensive funds, such as
bank deposits.  
 “We are continuing to pay down our high-cost debt and
we’re also continuing to access the capital markets for lower
cost funding,” Thain said today in a conference call with
analysts and investors to discuss the New York-based bank’s
 second-quarter results .  
 CIT plans to repay $1 billion of the $4 billion first-lien
loan outstanding and then “begin the process of refinancing
with a new secured term loan,” Thain said.  
 Extension Fees  
 Lenders will have until Aug. 5 to submit responses to
banks, the people said, who declined to be identified as the
terms are private. The financing will consist of new lender
commitments, as well as investors that agree to amend and extend
existing portions of the company’s first-lien debt, the people
said.  
 CIT is offering to pay lenders willing to extend their
share of the $3 billion so-called tranche-1 loan a 2.25 percent
fee, the people said. Investors that agree to push out
maturities on a $4.5 billion tranche-2 loan would get a 2
percent fee, the people said.  
 The company’s tranche-1 loans have an interest rate 10
percentage points more than Libor, with a 3 percent floor on the
lending benchmark, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Libor is the rate banks charge each other for loans. CIT pays a
margin of 7.5 percentage points over Libor, which has a 2
percent floor, on the tranche-2 loan, Bloomberg data show.  
 Lower Interest Rate  
 The minimum interest rate on the new debt, including the
lending benchmark floor, would be 6.75 percent, compared with a
minimum rate of 13 percent on the tranche-1 loans and 9.5
percent on the tranche-2 loan.  
 CIT’s 7 percent notes due May 2017 rose 0.125 cent to
94.375 cents on the dollar as of 2:31 p.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The senior-secured
second-lien debt gained 16 percent since December 2009 to yield
8.09 percent.  
 Under the current pricing guidance, the new term loan would
yield about 7.4 percent.  
 CIT will offer to sell the debt at 98 cents on the dollar,
reducing proceeds for the company and boosting the yield for
investors, the people familiar with the talks said.  
 The proposed term loan would have a soft-call protection of
102 cents during the first year and CIT would have to pay a 1
cent premium over face value to refinance the debt during year
two, the people said.  
 Curt Ritter , a spokesman for CIT, declined to comment on
the terms of the refinancing.  
 Moody’s Investors Service rates CIT’s senior secured debt
B3, six levels below investment grade, and Standard & Poor’s has
the company’s  credit rating  at B+, four steps below investment
quality, according to Bloomberg data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     John Thain, CEO of CIT Group Inc. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
