-- Citigroup's Jeff Semenchuk Quits as Ventures Unit Moves to Silicon Valley
-- Bradley Keoun
-- 2010-07-27T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/citigroup-s-jeff-semenchuk-quits-as-ventures-unit-moves-to-silicon-valley.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc.  said  Jeff Semenchuk 
quit last month after four years heading a unit that formed
ventures with  Microsoft Corp.  and SK Telecom Co. as it tests
experimental online and mobile-phone banking technologies.  
 Semenchuk, who was in Chicago, left after his boss, Chief
Innovation Officer  Deborah Hopkins , consolidated leadership of
the 20-person unit in New York, Shanghai and Palo Alto,
California, said Chief Administrative Officer  Don Callahan . Palo
Alto made more sense as a base because it’s close to  Silicon
Valley  venture capitalists and technology startups, Callahan
said.  
 “The way Silicon Valley works, it’s an echo center, and
when you’re in the middle of it, you’re going to pick up a lot
more of the thinking,” Callahan said. “When we decided to move
it out to the Valley, that began a set of conversations between
Debby and Jeff that ended up with a departure.”  
 The Growth Ventures and Innovation group remains
“critical” to Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit’s  plan to
make Citigroup a leader in consumer-banking technology, similar
to the way the company pioneered  automated teller machines  in
the 1970s, Callahan said. Seeking to blunt  Bank of America
Corp.’s  five-to-one advantage in U.S. branches, Citigroup
executives last year began internal strategy sessions to morph
the consumer business into a “Bank of the Future” with online,
mobile and high-tech features.  
 iPhone Glitch  
 Mobile banking technology can have pitfalls. Citigroup said
yesterday that a banking application for the  Apple Inc.  iPhone
inadvertently saved customer information to users’ phones and
possibly to their computers. Citigroup said it has released an
update of the app that corrects the problem. The app was
developed by a Citigroup vendor unrelated to the Growth Ventures
unit, Citigroup spokesman  Steve Silverman  said.  
 Semenchuk’s duties were assumed by Chris Kay, 44, a former
senior real-estate manager at Minneapolis-based  Target Corp.  who
was hired in 2007. Kay, who is based in New York, will relocate
to Palo Alto, Silverman said.  
 “Semenchuk was a tremendous asset to Citi,” said  Thomas Noyes , who oversaw the company’s international online-banking
business in 2006 and 2007 and is now a  consultant  at Starpoint
Partners LLP in Davidson, North Carolina. “Lessons are learned
and relearned in each new appointment.”  
 Dion Lisle, 48, a deputy of Semenchuk’s, also quit,
Silverman said. Lisle lives in Mountain View, California, near
Palo Alto. Neither Semenchuk, 50, nor Lisle returned calls for
comment. The bank doesn’t disclose the unit’s revenue or detail
the size of its equity investments, Silverman said.  
 Tokyo ‘Smart Banking’  
 Hopkins, a former  Lucent Technologies Inc.  chief financial
officer who joined the bank in 2002 and was named by Callahan to
her current post in 2008, moved to Palo Alto from New York in
March.  
 Hopkins, 55, bolstered the Growth Ventures unit’s
management in April by hiring Sarita James as chief operating
officer, Silverman said. James, 33, reports directly to Hopkins
and is based in New York. She was previously a program manager
at Microsoft, a McKinsey & Co. consultant and a  White House
fellow , according to her  LinkedIn page .  
 Kay worked over the past year to develop two “Smart
Banking” branches in Tokyo, which were unveiled in April and
feature touchscreens and video conferencing, he wrote in an
 entry on Citigroup’s blog  under the headline, “Retail banking
restyled.”  
 “We’re viewing Japan as a lab for the whole world,” Kay
wrote.  
 SK Telecom, Obopay  
 Semenchuk joined Citigroup in 2006. Before that, he oversaw
innovation for consumer health care at  Pfizer Inc. , and during
the dot-com frenzy in the early 2000s he started a software
company to teach children how to manage their finances.  
 Investments under Semenchuk included the formation in 2008
of San Mateo, California-based Mobile Money Ventures, a $16
million venture with Seoul-based  SK Telecom  to develop mobile-
phone banking applications and systems.  
 In 2007, Citigroup started a project with Obopay Inc. to
test cell-phone “peer-to-peer payment service” in Boston and
Chicago. The bank terminated the trial in December, Silverman
said.  
 Last year, Semenchuk  oversaw a pilot project  in Bangalore,
India, where customers could pay for purchases by tapping mobile
phones on “contactless readers” configured to receive the
signal. His group also joined with  Microsoft  to form Bundle.com,
a personal-finance website designed to compete with Intuit
Inc.’s  Mint.com . Hopkins and Semenchuk served together as
Citigroup’s representatives on the boards of Mobile Money
Ventures and Bundle, Silverman said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Citigroup Inc. chief innovation officerDeborah Hopkins. Photographer: Rex Rystedt/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
