-- Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Said in Talks to Buy Harrington for $800 Million
-- Cristina Alesci
-- 2010-07-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/clayton-dubilier-rice-said-in-talks-to-buy-harrington-for-800-million.html

          
          
             Clayton, Dubilier & Rice LLC  and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s private-equity unit are in talks to
buy medical supply distribution company Harrington Holdings Inc.
for about $850 million including debt, said two people with
knowledge of the discussions.  
 The purchase from private-equity firm The Jordan Company LP
may be announced as early as today, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the talks are private. The
transaction would be financed with 48 percent equity and the
remainder in debt, said one of the people.  
 “Medical distribution companies are characterized by low
growth, high return on invested capital and strong cash flows,”
said  Steven Halper , an analyst at St. Louis, Missouri-based
Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. Inc. “They are ideal private-equity
acquisitions.”  
 Private-equity deals have increased six-fold in the past
year, to $22.7 billion in the second quarter, as firms race to
spend an estimated $500 billion in unused capital commitments
following a 2 1/2-year drought in buyouts. Goldman Sachs Capital
Partners is working on investing a $20 billion fund raised in
2007. Clayton, Dubilier & Rice has deployed 20 percent of its
current $5 billion buyout fund over the last 12 months in four
transactions.  
 Tom Franco , a spokesman for Clayton, Dubilier & Rice,
declined to comment. An outside spokesman for The Jordan Company
didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment. Goldman Sachs
spokeswoman  Andrea Raphael  declined to comment.  
 The Jordan Company bought Harrington, which operates
Edgepark Medical Supplies, in 2007.  
 Clayton, Dubilier & Rice has previously invested in
healthcare distribution. In 2004, it bought medical products
company VWR International LLC for $1.68 billion. It exited the
investment in 2007, selling it to Madison Dearborn Partners LLC
in a $3.6 billion deal.  
 In October, the firm said it would buy a 46 percent stake
in Diversey Inc. as part of a $2.6 billion recapitalization of
the Sturtevant, Wisconsin-based provider of commercial cleaning,
sanitation and hygiene products.  
 Jefferies Group Inc. is advising The Jordan Company on the
sale. Jefferies and GSO Capital Partners, a unit of Blackstone,
will provide some of the debt financing, said one of the people.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        