-- NYSE Liffe Exchange Plans to Consult Cocoa Clients Before Changing Market
-- Claudia Carpenter
-- 2010-07-27T13:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/cocoa-buyers-liffe-exchange-officials-meet-after-calls-for-transparency.html

          
          
             NYSE Liffe said it plans to talk to
more cocoa clients before deciding whether market rules need
changing, after meeting a group of buyers who complained that
speculation was distorting prices.  
 A group of 16 cocoa consumers wrote to the exchange on July
2 to complain about a lack of transparency, warning that they
may transfer trading to ICE Futures U.S., according to a copy of
the letter obtained by Bloomberg News. Liffe said it found no
evidence of “abusive behavior” or trading with the “specific
purpose of distorting” the price of its July cocoa contract,
according to a July 8 letter obtained by Bloomberg.  
 Representatives of the cocoa groups and Liffe officials met
today in London. The exchange will “consult further with its
broader customer base and its regulator before determining
whether any further changes are required,” Liffe said in an e-
mailed statement after the meeting.  
 Liffe’s July cocoa contract closed at 2,713 pounds ($4,224)
a metric ton at its July 15 expiry, 12 percent more than the
next available contract. Liffe said the next day that 240,100
tons of cocoa were delivered into the contract, the most since
1996. While the exchange identified the brokers taking delivery,
it didn’t name the ultimate owners. Warehouses monitored by
Liffe held 246,810 tons of cocoa with a valid grading result as
of July 12, with a further 51,460 tons under other categories.  
 “Trading on the bourse should be transparent, and we need
to know who is trading,” said  Eugen Weinberg , an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “This meeting could be a good step
for market participants to understand each other.”  
 Futures Trading  
 Liffe may introduce reporting on speculative commodity-
market positions this quarter, it said in its response to the
cocoa consuming groups. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission already produces such  reports  for speculator holdings
in cocoa traded on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  
 Armajaro Holdings Ltd., a London-based commodities trader
and hedge-fund group, took delivery of the cocoa from Liffe’s
July contract, the Financial Times reported July 16, citing
unidentified traders.  Anthony Ward , co-founder of the group,
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg.  
 Cocoa for September delivery, the Liffe contract closest to
delivery, was at 2,269 pounds a ton at 2:13 p.m. in London, 5.1
percent more than the next available contract. Cocoa for
September delivery on ICE Futures U.S. was at $2,967 a ton, a
discount of 0.7 percent to the next contract.  
 Tighter Supply  
 Cocoa supply is often tighter before harvests begin in
October in Ivory Coast and Ghana, the world’s two largest
growers, according to  Laurent Pipitone , chief statistician at
the International Cocoa Organization in London. Supplies have
been limited because production has lagged behind demand for
three of the past four years, he said.  
 The discussions at Liffe today took place “in good
spirits,” Andreas Christiansen, chairman of the German Cocoa
Trade Association, said by phone. No date for subsequent talks
was set, said Christiansen, who was at the meeting.  
 The ICCO plans to start a study next week into the
“transparency” of the New York cocoa market, Executive
Director  Jan Vingerhoets  said by phone today. The London cocoa
market cannot be studied because there isn’t enough information
available, he said.  
 “The cocoa industry cannot continue to trade on a futures
market that is not offering a minimum of hedge transparency,”
the 16 signatories wrote in the July 2 letter to Liffe. “We
will, therefore, be obliged to reconsider seriously our hedging
policy and with an eventual move towards using the ICE market.”  
 Sarah Stashak , a spokeswoman for ICE in Atlanta, declined
to comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claudia Carpenter  in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        