-- U.S. Congress Sends Obama War Bill Amid Afghan Policy Criticism
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-07-28T04:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/congress-appoves-60-billion-u-s-war-funds-amid-afghan-policy-complaints.html

          
          
             The U.S. Congress sent to President
 Barack Obama  a $60 billion war-funding bill amid attacks on his
Afghanistan policies newly provoked by leaked reports suggesting
that Pakistan secretly aided aiding Taliban forces.  
 The House voted 308-114 yesterday to forward the measure to
Obama for his signature. It cleared the Senate last week after
lawmakers in that chamber deleted $23 billion in unrelated
spending.  
 House Democratic leaders who had sought that additional
money said they wouldn’t delay the long-stalled war
funds any longer with the Pentagon warning of impending
personnel furloughs.  
 “The reality is that time has run out,” said Defense
Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman  Norm Dicks , a Washington
Democrat. “We’ve got to do it now.”  
 Representative  James McGovern , a Massachusetts Democrat
opposed to the war, said lawmakers should have held up the
funding “until we get some questions answered, until there is a
full airing of all the stuff” raised by the leaked documents.  
 “It is a mistake to give this administration yet another
blank check for this war,” McGovern said.  
 Republican Help  
 House Democratic leaders had to rely on Republicans to help
produce a majority behind the bill amid the growing opposition
within their own ranks to Obama’s war policies. The bill was
 supported  by 148 Democrats and 160 Republicans; 102 Democrats
and 12 Republicans voted against it.  
 The vote amounted to a surrender by House Democrats in
their bid for approval of the unrelated spending, including $10
billion in aid to state governments to prevent thousands of
teacher layoffs.  
 Senate Republicans insisted that those provisions be
dropped. The White House also  threatened to veto  the plan
because House Democrats wanted to finance it partly by cutting
money for the Department of Education, including funds for a
state grant program that is one of the agency’s priorities.  
 House Appropriations Committee Chairman  David Obey , a
Wisconsin Democrat, called the bill “true to form,” saying,
“virtually everything we’ve attempted to do this year to
address the economic crisis and emergencies on the domestic side
of the ledger have fallen by the wayside.”  
 Obey’s Opposition  
 Obey said he wouldn’t vote for the stripped-down bill
because he doesn’t support the administration’s war policies.
“I cannot look my constituents in the eye and say that this
operation will hurt our enemies more than us,” he said.  
 Obama said yesterday the leaked war documents “don’t
reveal any issues that haven’t already informed our public
debate on Afghanistan -- indeed, they point to the same
challenges that led me to conduct an extensive review of our
policy last fall.”  
 The measure sent to Obama, requested by the Pentagon in
February, includes $33 billion for the president’s plan
announced last year to send 30,000 additional troops to
Afghanistan.  
 Another $13 billion would pay for a Veterans Affairs
decision to expand the number of ailments presumed to be linked
to use of the defoliant Agent Orange during the Vietnam War.
Lawmakers said they expected more than 86,000 veterans or their
survivors to be eligible for compensation.  
 The measure also would provide $5 billion for disaster
assistance.  
 Republican Complaints  
 Republicans complained the bill was identical to one passed
by the Senate two months ago. “The delay in passing this
legislation was caused by one thing and only one thing -- the
House Democrat majority’s continuing and unwavering appetite for
spending,” said Representative  Jerry Lewis  of California, the
top Republican on the Appropriations Committee.  
 Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  had warned lawmakers he
might have to begin furloughing employees next month if the
money wasn’t approved.  
 A series of attempts by war critics to attach provisions to
the legislation targeting Obama’s Afghanistan policies failed
following his threat to veto any legislation that would
undermine his role as commander in chief.  
 The amendment that came closest to passing would have
required the administration to submit a report explaining how it
intends to end U.S. involvement in the Afghan conflict. The
administration has said it plans to begin bringing troops home
in July 2011, depending on conditions in Afghanistan. It hasn’t
specified when the withdrawal would be complete.  
 The amendment won the support of most House Democrats,
including Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  of California, though with 162
votes it fell well short of the majority in the 435-member
chamber needed for approval.  
 Afghan war costs will top those in Iraq this year for the
first time since the U.S. invaded Iraq in 2003. Costs this year
will total more than those in all but two years of former
President  George W. Bush ’s administration. The measure will
bring total war expenses to $1.1 trillion.  
 The bill is H.R. 4899.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       House Democratic leaders had to rely on Republicans  
                       
                         
                           U.S. House of Representatives via Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. Representative James McGovern, a Democrat from Massachusetts. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. Representative James McGovern, a Democrat from Massachusetts. Source: U.S. House of Representatives via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
