-- Congo Army Clashes With Uganda Rebels in East, Displacing 60,000 Civilians
-- Michael Kavanagh
-- 2010-07-27T15:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/congo-army-clashes-with-uganda-rebels-in-east-displacing-60-000-civilians.html

          
          
             More than 60,000 people fled clashes
between the Congolese army and Ugandan rebels this month,
hampering efforts by the United Nations and Congo to relocate
2.3 million displaced by conflict in the Central African nation.  
 The Congolese army is pursuing fighters from the Allied
Democratic Forces-National Army for the Liberation of Uganda in
the Beni area near the border with Uganda, the UN said today.  
 “We fear that the number of displaced might be much
higher,” Stefania Trassari, spokeswoman for the UN’s Office for
the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, or OCHA, said by phone
today from Kinshasa, Congo’s capital. “We are very concerned
because Beni has been relatively calm in recent years and we are
working to assess the needs of the displaced and then respond.”  
 War in Congo killed more than 3 million people between 1998
and 2007, according to International Rescue Committee estimates,
mainly due to preventable disease and starvation. Conflict
continues in the country’s mineral-rich east, where the army is
fighting several foreign and Congolese rebel groups.  
 The ADF-NALU is involved in the trafficking of diamonds and
gold from Congo’s North Kivu and Ituri provinces, according to a
2007 report by the World Bank. The group, which has roots in
extreme Islamic ideology, is on the U.S.’s  Terrorist Exclusion
List .  
 ‘Dramatic’ Situation  
 Congo faces a “dramatic” humanitarian situation even after
peace returned to some parts of the country, said  Antonio Guterres , the head of the United Nations refugee agency. The
integration of rebel groups from eastern Congo into the national
army during the past year has allowed more than 1.2 million
Congolese to return home since January 2009, according to OCHA.  
 “People want to consolidate peace, they want to recover
their economy and their society,” Guterres said outside a
displacement camp in Nyanzale in Congo’s eastern North Kivu
province on July 23. “Then you have zones where conflict is
still prevailing, where the humanitarian situation is still
dramatic and in those you still need to have strong support from
the international community.”  
 The  World Food Programme  will provide $400 million over the
next two years to fund programs including helping people return
to their homes and those who are still displaced, WFP Executive
Director  Josette Sheeran  said in Nyanzale on July 23.  
 Guterres said abuses by the newly integrated Congolese army
were a cause of continuing instability.  
 “If I would have to select a humanitarian priority in
relation to the action of the international community in the DRC
even if it looks strange, that humanitarian priority would be
the creation of a true national army,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa on 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        