-- Consumer Confidence in U.S. Fell in July to a Five-Month Low
-- Shobhana Chandra
-- 2010-07-27T20:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-declines-to-a-five-month-low-on-labor-outlook.html

          
          
             American consumers lost confidence
in July, shaken by mounting concern over jobs and wages that
threatens to constrain the economic recovery.  
 The Conference Board’s  sentiment  index fell to 50.4, below
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and
the lowest level in five months, figures from the New York-based
private research group showed today. Another report showed home
prices rose more than forecast in May as a government tax credit
temporarily underpinned sales.  
 A jobless rate that is projected to hover near 10 percent
for the rest of the year means household spending, which
accounts for 70 percent of the economy, will take time to
recover.  Ford Motor Co.  is among companies lowering industry
sales forecast for the year as concerned consumers focus on
saving more and paying down debt.  
 “Faith in the economic recovery is failing,” said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in Philadelphia, who had forecast the confidence index would
drop to 50.3. “It’ll be 2013 before we see any semblance of
normality in the labor market. It means weaker purchases.”  
 The confidence gauge was forecast to drop to 51, according
to median of 73 economists surveyed, with  estimates  ranging from
46 to 55.5. The Conference Board revised the June index up to
54.3 from a previously reported 52.9 reading. The measure
averaged 98 during the expansion that ended in December 2007.  
 Home Prices  
 Home prices  in 20 cities climbed 4.6 percent in May from
the same month last year, exceeding the median forecast of
economists surveyed and the biggest 12-month gain since August
2006, a report from S&P/Case-Shiller also showed. Home sales
plunged following the April 30 contract-signing expiration of a
government incentive worth up to $8,000, raising the risk that
property values will slacken in coming months.  
 “There may still be some residual impact from the
homebuyers’ tax credit,”  David Blitzer , chairman of the index
committee at S&P, said in a statement. “It still looks possible
that the housing market might bounce along the bottom for the
foreseeable future, before showing any real improvement that
will filter through to the rest of the economy.”  
 Most stocks fell, halting a three-day rally, as the
decrease in confidence overshadowed better-than-projected
earnings. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.1 percent to
close at 1,113.84 in New York. The yield on the 10-year Treasury
note increased to 3.05 percent from 2.99 percent late yesterday.  
 Less Income  
 A flagging outlook over the next six months led sentiment
lower, today’s report showed. The proportion of Americans who
expected their incomes to rise over the next six months fell to
10 percent, the lowest since April 2009.  
 “Concerns about business conditions and the labor market
are casting a dark cloud over consumers that is not likely to
lift until the job market improves,”  Lynn Franco , director of
the Conference Board’s consumer research center, said in a
statement.  
 Today’s report is in line with the  preliminary reading  of
the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan confidence index,
which declined in July to the lowest level since August 2009.  
 Americans are reducing debt as confidence wanes. The amount
of  consumer credit  outstanding dropped for 18 of the 20 months
to May, a record plunge.  
 Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, said U.S. vehicle
sales in 2010 will be 11.5 million to 12 million. That’s down
from the Dearborn, Michigan-based company’s prior forecast of
11.5 million to 12.5 million. Last year’s 10.4 million vehicles
was the lowest annual total since 1982.  
 Reducing Debt  
 “Consumers are worried about their personal balance
sheet,” Lewis Booth, Ford’s chief financial officer, said in an
interview on July 23. “While they’re paying back their debts,
they’re reluctant to take on more debt. And a car is a big
purchase.”  
 Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told lawmakers
last week that unemployment was “the most important” problem
facing the economy.  
 “An important drag on household spending is the slow
recovery in the labor market and the attendant uncertainty about
job prospects,” Bernanke said in testimony before Congress on
July 21. He repeated the central bank’s forecast for a
“moderate” economic rebound.  
 It’ll take a “significant” amount of time to restore the
almost 8.5 million jobs lost in 2008 and 2009, Bernanke said.  
 Retreating Sales  
 A lack of employment is contributing to a retreat in
housing since the tax credit ended. Sales of new homes in May
dropped to the lowest level in records dating back to 1963,
while June purchases were the second-lowest, according to
figures from the Commerce Department yesterday. Demand for
existing houses dropped over the past two months.  
 The drop in demand mean values may not increase much more.  
 “We just are going to muddle through for a while,” said
 Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
New York. “I’m not looking for big movement from here either up
or down.”  
 Thirteen of the 20 cities in the S&P/Case-Shiller index
showed a year-over-year increase in May, led by an 18 percent
gain in San Francisco and a 12 percent increase in San Diego.
Las Vegas was the worst performing city, showing a 6.5 percent
drop in property values.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Consumer confidence fell in July. Photographer: Tom Starkweather/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
