-- Continental Tests Subway-Style Boarding Scanners in Houston
-- Mary Jane Credeur
-- 2010-07-27T16:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/continental-tests-subway-style-boarding-scanners-in-houston-to-lower-costs.html

          
          
             Continental Airlines Inc.  is testing
subway-style gates at its hometown hub in Houston that let
travelers board planes without using an agent, in what a trade
group said is the first such trial at a U.S. airport.  
 Barriers on the machines open to let passengers onto the
jet bridge after they scan a pass, said Christen David, a
spokeswoman.  Continental  installed two of the devices at one
gate in June, in addition to a traditional boarding lane with an
agent, she said.  
 Self-boarding frees up agents for tasks such as processing
upgrade requests and reduces the number of employees required to
monitor the loading of planes, said  George Hamlin , president of
Hamlin Transportation Consulting in Fairfax, Virginia.  
 “It could save on costs if the  airlines  can eventually
have just one person per gate, or one person to monitor a few
gates,” said Hamlin, who previously worked as a gate agent and
at ticket counters for Trans World Airlines. “It could also
stop passengers from hopping to the front of the line when their
boarding zone hasn’t been called yet.”  
 Continental is the first airline in the U.S. to combine
self-scanning technology with automated gate barriers, said
 Steve Lott , a spokesman for the International Air Transport
Association trade group. He said there are 17 airlines worldwide
that use self-boarding, many of them in Europe.  
 ‘Responding Well’  
 Passengers at Houston’s George Bush Intercontinental
Airport are “really responding well” to the experiment, David
said today. Travelers still must show a pass and identification
to Transportation Security Administration officers at
checkpoints before reaching the airport’s departure area.  
 In the U.S., automated barriers are now common on urban
transit systems, such as New York’s subways.  
 Air France-KLM Group  has been using self-boarding since
2009, when it rolled out a  boarding pass program  using mobile-
phone technology, said  Cedric Leurquin , a spokesman. Air France-
KLM initially tested the system at hubs in Paris and Amsterdam
to get feedback from business travelers, he said.  
 Air France-KLM has expanded mobile-phone boarding passes
and self-boarding to many of its European destinations, he said.  
 Continental is the fourth-biggest  U.S. airline . It agreed
to merge with  UAL Corp. ’s United Airlines in May, a tie-up that
will form the world’s largest carrier. USA Today previously
reported Continental’s plans to test self-boarding.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Continental Tests Subway-Style Boarding Scanners in Houston  
                       
                         
                           International Air Transport Association via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Travelers pass through Continental Airlines Inc.'s new subway-style gates at George Bush Intercontinental Airport in Houston. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Travelers pass through Continental Airlines Inc.'s new subway-style gates at George Bush Intercontinental Airport in Houston. Source: International Air Transport Association via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
