-- Continental Aims to Win 13% of Car Turbocharger Market Within Five Years
-- Cornelius Rahn
-- 2010-07-27T16:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/continental-aims-to-win-13-of-car-turbocharger-market-within-five-years.html

          
          
             Continental AG , Europe’s second-
biggest car-parts maker, aims to capture as much as 13 percent
of the global market for car-engine turbochargers within five
years, according to the head of the project.  
 Demand for diesel and gasoline turbochargers for cars will
probably grow 50 percent to a range from 28 million and 30
million units by 2015, with a value of 4 billion euros ($5.2
billion) to 5 billion euros,  Udo Schwerdel  said in an interview.
Continental, which will begin production of its first
turbocharger late in 2011, targets sales of 4 million units by
2015, he said.  
 The market for turbochargers, a gas compressor driven by an
engine’s own exhaust gases to create more power and allow for
smaller engines, is dominated by U.S. suppliers  Honeywell
International Inc . and Borgwarner Inc., as well as Mitsubishi
Corp and IHI Corp. of Japan. Continental’s turbochargers are
designed for use in 4-, 3- and 2-cylinder engines with about 100
kilowatts of power, Schwerdel said.  
 “I think their forecast for future market size is fairly
conservative,” said  Aleksej Wunrau , an analyst at ING BHF-Bank
AG in Frankfurt with a “strong buy” rating on the stock.
“When you consider the introduction of new emission rules and
an increased focus on fuel savings we could see the turbocharger
market grow to more than 40 million by 2015.”  
 Schaeffler’s Plant  
 Hanover, Germany-based Continental’s turbocharger will be
produced at plants owned by Schaeffler Group, the company’s
controlling  shareholder . The device reduces fuel consumption and
CO2 emissions by about 20 percent when used together with new
direct fuel injection technology, Schwerdel said.  
 “This market is going to grow considerably especially when
it comes to gasoline engines, and that’s where we want to gain a
foothold,” Schwerdel said by telephone yesterday.  
 Continental  said in April its turbocharger technology would
be used in a European carmaker’s vehicle platform. He declined
to identify the automaker.  
 Carmakers are increasingly looking to suppliers to provide
entire systems instead of buying components from different
suppliers, Schwerdel said. Continental also offers parts such as
fuel-injection pumps, injectors and engine controls, he said.  
 Continental last year considered a venture with Magna
International Inc. to produce turbochargers, before Schaeffler
pushed to work on the project with Continental. Continental has
invested about 150 million euros in the technology, Schwerdel
said.  
 Continental  fell  1.05 euros, or 2.1 percent, to 39.31 euros
at the close of trading in Frankfurt at 5:30 p.m. The stock has
gained 35 percent this year, valuing the supplier at 9.9 billion
euros,  
 German supplier Robert Bosch GmbH is the world’s largest
auto-parts manufacturer.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        