-- Daimler Wins Dismissal of Chrysler Creditors' Lawsuit Over 2007 Buyout
-- Tiffany Kary
-- 2010-07-27T22:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/daimler-wins-dismissal-of-chrysler-creditors-lawsuit-over-2007-buyout.html

          
          
             Daimler AG  won dismissal of a lawsuit
brought by Chrysler LLC’s creditors that blames a buyout by
Cerberus Capital Management LP for the U.S. carmaker’s 2009
bankruptcy.  
 The creditors sued seeking to recover billions of dollars
in assets that they say Daimler stripped from Chrysler in 2007,
just before a sale to Cerberus. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Arthur Gonzalez  in Manhattan said in an order today that the suit can
be dismissed, giving the creditors 60 days to replead some of
their allegations.  
 “It is implausible to suggest that an investor, such as
Cerberus, would invest $7 billion to acquire a controlling
position in a finance company whose value depended upon the
performance of a company that was poised to fail,” Gonzalez
said in the order, referring to Chrysler’s finance arm, FinCo.  
 Chrysler filed for bankruptcy protection on April 30, 2009.
A group led by Italy’s Fiat SpA purchased most Chrysler assets,
forming the world’s sixth-largest carmaker. As part of that
deal, secured lenders got $2 billion in cash for their $6.9
billion in loans.  
 Daimler knew in 2006 that Chrysler was burdened with debt
and facing declining car sales, according to the original
complaint, filed Aug. 17 in bankruptcy court. The creditors
sought a jury trial to determine damages for the alleged fraud.
They said about $9 billion in assets were transferred to
Daimler, for which Chrysler got only $1.23 billion.  
 ‘Of a Piece’  
 Daimler said Chrysler received roughly equivalent value and
wasn’t made insolvent by the 2007 restructuring and sale.
Daimler, based in Stuttgart, Germany, said the creditors tried
to view some money transfers in isolation from the entire deal.  
 “The restructuring and the transaction with Cerberus were
all of a piece,” Daimler lawyer  Alan Goudiss  told Gonzalez on
May 13.  
 In court documents, Daimler said it “nurtured” Chrysler
for nine years before selling control to Cerberus at a “steep
loss” in a deal that injected $5 billion in fresh equity
capital into the U.S. automaker. The German company also
contributed to Chrysler’s pension plan and forgave its trade
debt in bankruptcy, Daimler’s lawyers said.  
 Chrysler’s board members, originally cited in the
complaint, were dismissed under an agreement made with the trust
and entered in court documents June 29, Gonzalez said.  
 Gonzalez allowed creditors to bring the lawsuit after being
told that law firm Susman Godfrey LLP would handle the case on a
contingency basis. The U.S. Treasury Department had contended
creditors couldn’t use the estate’s assets to fund a lawsuit
against Daimler. The Treasury, which let Auburn Hills, Michigan-
based Chrysler borrow $4.9 billion to reorganize, has argued
that its loan gives it authority to bar the use of estate funds
for lawsuits.  
 The case is In re Old CarCo LLC f/k/a Chrysler LLC, 09-
50002, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        