-- Daimler Raises 2010 Ebit Target to 6 Billion Euros
-- Cornelius Rahn
-- 2010-07-27T16:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/daimler-boosts-forecast-for-operating-profit-after-earnings-beat-estimates.html

          
          
             Daimler AG, the world’s second-
largest maker of luxury cars, raised its 2010 operating profit
forecast to 6 billion euros ($7.8 billion) after beating
quarterly estimates on higher sales in China and the U.S.  
 The manufacturer of  Mercedes-Benz  cars, which said July 16
it would increase its target today, previously aimed for full-
year earnings before interest and taxes of more than 4 billion
euros. Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler reported an operating
loss in 2009 of 1.51 billion euros.  
 Daimler and rivals  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and Audi AG
are benefitting from a jump in demand in China and the U.S., the
world’s two biggest car markets. Daimler, also the world’s top
maker of heavy trucks, has continually raised targets in 2010 on
the rebounding global economy.  
 “Investors are selling on good news,” said  Thomas Nagel ,
a trader at Equinet AG in Frankfurt. “Automobile shares had a
good run in the last few weeks and investors were expecting good
numbers from Daimler. Now that they have those numbers, they’re
selling on them to take profit.”  
 Daimler  fell  1.82 euros, or 4.2 percent, to 41.34 euros at
the close of trading at 5:30 p.m. in Frankfurt. That’s the stock
steepest decline in a month. Before today’s announcement,
 Daimler  had jumped 19 percent since April 19, the day the
company began raising forecasts.  
 Profit Advances  
 Second-quarter net income was 1.25 billion euros, compared
with a loss of 1.02 billion euros a year earlier,  Daimler  said
today. The  carmaker  was expected to report profit of 1.03
billion euros, according to the average estimate of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Daimler said July 16 that second-quarter Ebit reached 2.1
billion euros, while sales jumped 28 percent to 25.1 billion
euros. Daimler first lifted forecasts in April, raising targets
for the  Mercedes-Benz  division twice within two months, as the
global economic recovery feeds consumer demand.  
 “Fiscal 2010 is becoming so strong it’ll create a base
effect for the coming years,” said  Philippe Houchois , an
analyst at UBS AG in London with a “neutral” rating on the
shares. “The car companies need to generate constant earnings
momentum to further drive their share prices.”  
 Mercedes’ deliveries in the U.S., the world’s second-
biggest market, climbed 25 percent to 106,972 vehicles in the
first six months. Toyota Motor Co.’s Lexus brand added 19
percent to 107,430, while BMW sales rose to 100,632 cars.  
 ‘Best Profit’  
 “We’re not fighting for the highest volume, but for the
best reputation, customer satisfaction and the best profit,”
Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said in a Bloomberg TV
interview today. “We’re making good progress on that. Whether
we’ll end up slightly ahead or behind Lexus isn’t really
relevant.”  
 Mercedes’ sales growth in China, which more than doubled in
the first half to 59,600 vehicles, will be as strong in the
second half as in the first, the CEO said on a conference call
with analysts.  
 Third-quarter sales worldwide will depend on how quickly
Daimler can fill orders, the CEO said, adding the carmaker used
all available capacity in the first half.  
 Zetsche aims to push the operating margin at Mercedes to 10
percent in 2012 and said that figure shouldn’t fall below 8
percent in the near term. The carmaker is benefiting from higher
prices for the S- and E-class cars, the CEO said.  
 “Daimler came out of the crisis faster than just about any
other competitor, and their margins are already on an absolute
top-level, comparable with the boom years before the crisis,”
said  Tim Schuldt , an analyst with Equinet AG in Frankfurt with a
“buy” recommendation on the shares.  
 Raised Forecasts  
 BMW  two weeks ago raised its 2010 forecast, predicting
sales will rise about 10 percent to more than 1.4 million cars
and sport-utility vehicles, while the operating margin at the
automotive unit will exceed 5 percent.  
 BMW increased first-half group deliveries 13 percent while
Mercedes-Benz posted a 12 percent gain. Six-month deliveries at
Volkswagen AG’s  Audi , which aims to dethrone BMW by 2015,
advanced 19 percent.  
 Mercedes-Benz, BMW and Audi are adding workers and cutting
summer factory breaks to boost  production  as demand for luxury
cars returns quicker than they had planned.  
 Daimler has hired 1,800 temporary workers and added
Saturday shifts at German assembly plants making the SLS gull-
wing sports car, GLK sport-utility vehicle and E-Class
convertible. Audi is running extra shifts, while BMW has added
5,000 temporary workers.  
 Higher Truck Demand  
 Daimler and competitors  Volvo AB  and Scania AB are also
benefitting from increasing orders for commercial vehicles.
Volvo, the world’s second-largest truckmaker, reported second-
quarter net income that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  
 Daimler’s heavy truck unit posted a second-quarter
operating profit of 300 million euros compared with a loss of
604 million euros a year earlier. The unit will be profitable
this year in Japan, Europe and the U.S., where Daimler is
pushing through price increases,  Andreas Renschler , head of the
truck division, said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Daimler AG chief executive officer Dieter Zetsche. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Dieter Zetsche, chief executive officer of Daimler AG, discusses the outlook for the automaker and its competition with Toyota Motor Corp.’s Lexus unit and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG in the U.S. market.
     Daimler raised its 2010 operating profit forecast to 6 billion euros ($7.8 billion) after the company beat quarterly estimates on higher sales in China and the U.S. Zetsche speaks to Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
