-- Daiwa Posts Quarterly Loss on Slumping Underwriting Fees, Trading Profit
-- Takahiko Hyuga
-- 2010-07-27T08:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/daiwa-reports-second-straight-quarterly-loss-as-underwriting-fees-slump.html

          
          
             Daiwa Securities Group Inc. , Japan’s
second-largest brokerage, reported a second straight quarterly
loss as underwriting fees and trading profit slumped.  
 The first-quarter  loss  of 1.19 billion yen ($13.7 million)
compares with net income of 17.9 billion yen a year ago and a
loss of 2.8 billion yen in the three months through March,
Tokyo-based Daiwa said in a statement today. The loss was less
than the 4.7 billion yen average estimate of four analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Shigeharu Suzuki  is seeking more
overseas revenue amid a downturn in investment banking and a 63
percent slump in Japanese equity underwriting deals last quarter.
He’s also looking to fill a gap left by the breakup of a 10-
year-old investment banking venture with  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc.  in December.  
 “Recovery in Daiwa’s investment banking business has been
delayed since it dissolved the joint venture,” said  Tatsuo Majima , an analyst at  Tokai Tokyo Financial Group Inc.  in Tokyo.
“The loss can’t just be put down to market conditions.”  
 Daiwa  shares, which have fallen 33 percent in the past 12
months, rose 0.3 percent to close at 375 yen today, before
earnings were reported.  
 Larger rival Nomura Holdings Inc. may also report a loss
for the quarter on a slump in trading and investment banking.
The average of four analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg
News is for Nomura to post a loss of 334 million yen on July 30,
compared with a profit of 11.4 billion yen a year earlier.  
 Market Share Slide  
 Daiwa’s revenue fell 29 percent to 94.2 billion yen for the
quarter ended June 30 from a year ago, the company said.
Underwriting fees slid 81 percent to 4.7 billion yen, while
trading profit dropped 69 percent to 10.7 billion yen.  
 Daiwa’s domestic equity underwriting rank has fallen to
fifth this year, with transactions totaling 205.2 billion yen,
from No. 2 last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co., the firm’s investment
banking unit, posted a loss of 23.5 billion yen for the quarter.  
 “Even if we had the joint venture with Sumitomo Mitsui, I
think our earnings would still have been bad,” Daiwa Chief
Financial Officer  Nobuyuki Iwamoto  said in a press briefing in
Tokyo.  
 The value of Japanese equity- and equity-linked
underwriting last quarter slumped to 479 billion yen across 25
deals, from 1.3 trillion yen on seven deals a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 As part of its efforts to expand business abroad, Daiwa
plans to boost revenue from Asia-related business to 160 billion
yen next fiscal year, one third of which will come from its
capital markets business, Suzuki said on July 22.  
 Daiwa earlier this month agreed to buy KBC Groep NV’s
convertible bond and Asia equity derivatives units for about $1
billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        