-- Rangel Said to Seek Settlement to Avert Hearing in Ethics Case
-- Ryan Donmoyer
-- 2010-07-28T04:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/democrats-said-to-be-seeking-ethics-agreement-with-representative-rangel.html

          
          
             U.S. Representative  Charles Rangel 
said he is trying to settle a House ethics complaint against
him, a move that would avert the release of the details of the
case stemming from a two-year probe of his personal finances and
fundraising.  
 Rangel confirmed to reporters yesterday that his lawyers
were in discussions with staff lawyers for the House ethics
committee, which has scheduled a hearing tomorrow where the
specific of the allegations against the New York Democrat would
be revealed.  
 When asked if there were settlement discussions, he said
“of course.” The negotiations are similar to “legislative
conferences in that until everything is agreed upon, there is
nothing agreed upon,” Rangel said.  
 Two Democratic House leaders, Representatives
 James Clyburn  of South Carolina and  Chris Van Hollen  of
Maryland, have spoken with Rangel, 80, to encourage him to reach
a settlement with the House ethics panel, said two party aides.
The aides spoke on condition of anonymity because the
talks were continuing. Rangel’s resignation from his seat, to
which he was first elected in 1970, hasn’t been discussed,
according to one aide.  
 Rangel said he didn’t know whether progress toward a
settlement had been made because “I don’t know what they talked
about; I am not participating” in the discussions.  
 Release of Details  
 A bipartisan subcommittee of the Committee on Standards of
Official Conduct is scheduled to hold the hearing tomorrow. A
settlement ahead of the hearing would prevent the release of the
allegations against Rangel.  
 The House ethics committee has been investigating Rangel’s
travel, personal finances and fundraising for a college center
named for him. In March, he stepped aside as chairman of the
House tax-writing committee after the ethics panel admonished
him for breaking a House rule by accepting corporate-sponsored
travel.  
 The ethics committee announced new charges against Rangel
on July 23 without giving details.  
 Rangel referred his own case to the ethics committee two
years ago, saying he expected to be vindicated.  
 Before Rangel made his comments, House Majority Leader
 Steny Hoyer , a Maryland Democrat, told reporters yesterday he
didn’t know how far Rangel would pursue a hearing by the ethics
panel.  
 Asked whether it would be better for Democrats if Rangel
were to resign, Hoyer said, “Mr. Rangel has to do what Mr.
Rangel believes is appropriate and proper.”  
 ‘Go Away’  
 Hoyer said Democrats “would like to have it go away”
because “this is not a pleasant process.” Still, he said, “It
is important to make the public understand that whenever there
is an allegation of improper behavior, the ethics committee will
pursue it.”  
 Rangel has served in Congress since 1971. He won election
after successfully challenging Representative Adam Clayton
Powell Jr. in the 1970 Democratic primary. He is being
challenged this year by Adam Clayton Powell IV for the party’s
nomination.  
 Rangel has amended five years of his financial disclosure
statements to include more than $500,000 in investments he
previously omitted.  
 An investigating subcommittee has been looking into whether
Rangel failed to disclose income from a rental villa he owns in
the Dominican Republic and misused four rent-controlled
apartments in Manhattan.  
 The ethics panel has been investigating whether Rangel
preserved a tax loophole for oil driller Nabors Industries Ltd.
after its chief executive pledged $1 million to the Charles
Rangel Center, a school of public service at City College of New
York. He has also been investigated for using congressional
stationery to contact potential donors for the Rangel Center.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Representative Charles Rangel listens during a news conference with fellow members of the Congressional Black Caucus outside the White House in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Kevin Dietsch/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
