-- Deutsche Bank Profit Rises 6.4%, Helped by Consumer Banking
-- Jann Bettinga
-- 2010-07-27T07:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/deutsche-bank-second-quarter-net-rises-to-1-56-billion-beating-estimates.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s largest
bank, said second-quarter profit rose 6.4 percent, beating
analysts’ estimates, as gains in retail and transaction banking
helped offset a decline in sales and trading.  
 Deutsche Bank rose as much as 3.6 percent in Frankfurt
trading after saying  net income  increased to 1.16 billion euros
($1.51 billion), surpassing the 1.05 billion-euro median
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Sales and trading at the investment bank, run by  Anshu Jain , fell 15 percent from a year earlier and 42 percent from
the first quarter, tracking declines at competitors including
 Credit Suisse Group AG  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The so-
called stable businesses of global transaction banking, consumer
banking and asset and wealth management posted their highest
combined pretax profit in two years.  
 “The stable businesses made very pleasant progress in the
second quarter,” said  Manfred Jakob , an analyst at SEB AG in
Frankfurt. “The slump in trading is largely due to the euro
crisis.”  
 Deutsche Bank was up 1.9 percent to 51.34 euros by 9:18
a.m. in Frankfurt. UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank, rose as
much as 7.6 percent in Swiss trading after reporting a third
consecutive quarterly profit, beating analysts’ estimates on
higher-than-expected trading revenue.  
 Consumer, Transaction Banking  
 Earnings from Deutsche Bank’s retail unit rose more than
four-fold to 233 million euros, the most since the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, helped by mortgage
lending and a decline in loan defaults.  
 Pretax profit from transaction banking more than doubled to
478 million euros, boosted by the purchase of parts of ABN Amro
Bank NV’s commercial lending activities in the Netherlands and
trade finance. Asset and wealth management returned to a profit
of 45 million euros in the quarter.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  has been seeking to
reduce dependence on the investment bank by making  acquisitions ,
including the ABN Amro operations, private bank Sal. Oppenheim
Group, and a stake in  Deutsche Postbank AG . The investment-
banking unit generated more than 90 percent of overall earnings
in the first quarter.  
 Pretax profit at the division fell 5.3 percent to 779
million euros in the second quarter from a year earlier and 70
percent from the previous three months. Earnings missed the 1.12
billion-euro estimate of analysts.  
 Trading Slump  
 Credit Suisse of Zurich, New York-based Goldman, Citigroup
Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley, as well as Bank
of America Corp. of Charlotte, North Carolina, on average
reported a 34 percent drop in trading revenue in the second
quarter from the first, company reports show. Investment banking
revenue for the group declined 27 percent.  
 “In a quarter which was characterized by increased
investor uncertainty and higher market volatility, Deutsche
Bank’s investment banking business followed the industrywide
trend of weaker profitability,” Ackermann, 62, said in today’s
statement.  
 Sales and trading revenue from debt and other products fell
to 2.13 billion euros from 2.32 billion euros a year earlier,
the company said. Analysts had forecast 2.36 billion euros.
Equity trading revenue decreased to 642 million euros from 927
million euros, missing the estimate of 757 million euros.  
 Profit Goals  
 Deutsche Bank aims to double pretax profit at its operating
businesses to 10 billion euros by 2011 from 2009 levels, helped
by gains in investment banking and Asia. About two-thirds of the
target is slated to come from the corporate banking and
securities unit and the rest from transaction and retail banking
and asset and wealth management.  
 Deutsche Bank’s pretax profit in the second quarter rose 16
percent to 1.52 billion euros, compared with analysts’ estimate
of 1.53 billion euros.  
 Deutsche Bank set aside 243 million euros for loan
defaults, down from 1 billion euros in the year-earlier period,
helped by an economic recovery. German business confidence
unexpectedly surged to a three-year high in July after exports
boomed and economic growth accelerated, the  Ifo institute  said
last week.  
 Deutsche Bank booked gains of 309 million euros related to
ABN Amro and its own debt, which were outweighed by costs of 507
million euros from Ocala Funding LLC, a commercial paper
vehicle, and the Cosmopolitan Resort & Casino in Las Vegas,
markdowns from the credit crisis and the U.K. payroll tax, the
bank said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
 Jann Bettinga  in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Anshu Jain a member of Deutsche Bank's group executive committee. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Stubbs, head of European and U.K. equity strategy at Citigroup Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the results of the stress tests for European banks and his investment strategy.
     Stubbs, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for the global economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
