-- Deutsche Boerse Beats Earnings Estimates, Projects Lower Costs
-- Nandini Sukumar
-- 2010-07-28T16:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/deutsche-boerse-second-quarter-profit-declines-beats-analyst-estimates.html

          
          
             Deutsche Boerse AG , Europe’s largest
exchange operator by market value, beat earnings estimates
because of bigger price swings that spurred trading and said
costs in 2010 will be lower than it projected.  
 Second-quarter profit excluding some items was 1.20 euros
($1.56) a share,  compared  with the 91-cent average projection of
13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Net income  fell 2.5 percent
to 160.8 million euros, beating estimates. Expenses will be
lower than its prior 1.2 billion euro forecast, the Frankfurt-
based company said in a statement yesterday.  
 Deutsche Boerse and rivals such as NYSE Euronext and  London
Stock Exchange Group Plc  saw trading slow last year following
the financial crisis, and responded by cutting costs to shore up
earnings. Trading jumped during the second quarter amid concern
that less spending by indebted European nations will slow global
growth. The MSCI World Index of stocks in 24 developed nations
retreated 13 percent during the second quarter, the most since
the final three months of 2008.  
 “It’s positive that expenses are running below original
guidance,” said  Andrew Mitchell , an exchange analyst Macquarie
Group Ltd. in London who has an “outperform” rating on the
shares. “Profit looks to have been ahead of consensus. Trading
volumes benefited in the quarter from high volatility.”  
 Shares Gain  
 Deutsche Boerse owns the Frankfurt stock exchange;
Clearstream, the region’s No. 2 securities-settlement company;
Eurex Clearing; and is part-owner of Eurex, Europe’s largest
futures market. Eurex bought New York-based options exchange
 International Securities Exchange Holdings Inc.  in 2007. The
shares rose 4 percent to 54.06 euros in Germany.  
 “The business environment for Deutsche Boerse group
improved,” Chief Financial Officer  Gregor Pottmeyer  said on a
call with investors today. “With Xetra, our electronic trading
system, sales revenue improved against prior quarters and Eurex
had sequential growth. There was also increased volatility on
financial markets, particularly in May.”  
 During the second quarter, Deutsche Boerse spent 82 million
euros for previously announced job cuts. The company expects to
spend about 100 million euros on “growth initiatives” this
year, with Eurex getting about 50 percent of the budget.  
 “With project progress, the expenses for restructuring
measures have become more concrete,” the exchange said
yesterday. “They will amount to less than 200 million euros,
some 40 million euros below the original assumption.”  
 Sales, Costs  
 Sales revenue rose to 564.4 million euros in the second-
quarter from 515.6 million euros in the comparable period a year
ago, the exchange said. Total costs jumped to 356 million euros
from 311.7 million euros, the exchange said, adding it includes
the restructuring expenses. Earnings before interest and tax
rose three percent to 257.4 million euros from 248.8 million
euros in the second quarter of 2009.  
 “The real surprise came from the cost side,”  Dirk Becker ,
a Frankfurt-based banking analyst at Kepler Capital Markets,
said in a note to investors. “This underlines the group’s
traditional reputation of being a tight cost manager. With the
recovery of the capital markets Deutsche Boerse’s earnings
should return to the previous growth trend.”  
 Earnings before interest and taxes at the Xetra electronic
trading segment was little changed at 27.2 million euros
compared with 27.6 million euros a year ago.  
 For Eurex, Europe’s largest derivatives exchange, earnings
before interest and taxes jumped 31 percent to 132.8 million
euros in the quarter. The exchange on May 6 traded a new daily
record of 32 million contracts, Deutsche Boerse said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Deutsche Boerse AG chief executive officer Reto Francioni. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
