-- Dow Erasing `10 Loss as S&P 500 Tops Moving Average Fuels Bulls
-- Whitney Kisling
-- 2010-07-27T20:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/dow-erasing-2010-slump-as-s-p-500-index-tops-200-day-average-fuels-bulls.html

          
          
             The rally that erased the Dow Jones
Industrial Average’s 2010 loss yesterday and carried the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  above its 200-day average spurred
optimism among chart analysts and investors who track earnings.  
 The Dow advanced 1 percent to 10,525.43 yesterday to wipe
out an annual slump that reached 7.1 percent on July 2 after
U.S. companies beat analysts’ profit estimates at twice the rate
they trailed them in the second quarter. The S&P 500 rose above
its mean price in the past 200 days for the first time in more
than a month, after surging 8.2 percent since June 30.  
 Bullish signals are increasing in equities after the  S&P
500  lost 13 percent in May and June, its biggest retreat since
the bull market began in March 2009. Projections for the fastest
S&P 500 income growth since 1988 are helping investors overcome
concern that the economy will sink into its second recession in
three years.  
 “Everybody loves an up market and stocks are looking
better from a technical perspective,” said  Matt McCormick , a
money manager at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which has
$2.7 billion in assets. “If technicals start to turn, then
psychology can turn and investors can get interested.”  
 As for earnings, “the numbers look good,” McCormick
added.  
 The S&P 500 rallied 1.1 percent to a one-month high of
1,115.01 yesterday, topping its 200-day mean of 1,113.71, after
new U.S. home sales beat the median economist estimate and
package-delivery company  FedEx Corp.  boosted its profit forecast
because of greater demand for international express shipments.  
 Dow Gains  
 The U.S. benchmark fell 0.1 percent to 1,113.84 as of the 4
p.m. close in New York after climbing as much as 0.5 percent
earlier, as a decline in consumer confidence to a five-month low
overshadowed better-than-estimated earnings at companies from
DuPont Co. to Lexmark International Inc. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average climbed 0.1 percent to 10,537.69 for the
fourth straight day of gains.  
 DuPont Co.,  Caterpillar Inc.  and General Electric Co. have
surged more than 16 percent from July 2, leading gains in the
Dow since it retreated to a nine-month low. Out of 30 companies
in the measure, only one fell during that time: Johnson &
Johnson.  
 The S&P 500 failed to surpass the moving average on May 27
and June 3 after coming within 0.2 percent amid the biggest
equity losses since the bull market began in March 2009. The
index spent five days above the 200-day average in the middle of
June before sinking.  
 Moving Average  
 “It’s always a good thing when you reclaim an important
moving average because it gets rid of resistance,” said
 Christian Bendixen , director of technical research at New York-
based Bay Crest Partners LLP. “I’ve been bullish for the last
couple of weeks on a variety of signals that the sell side was
exhausted.”  
 Profits among S&P 500 companies will rise 35 percent in
2010, the fastest pace in 22 years, according to the average
analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  
 “There were some worries about the strength of the
economic recovery, but now we’re reaching that key level of the
200-day moving average,” said  Giri Cherukuri , a money manager
and head trader at Oakbrook Investments in Lisle, Illinois,
which manages $2.2 billion. “People are looking to see if we
can sustain it.”  
 Slowing Expansion  
 Bearish investors are counting on a slower economic
expansion than the pace seen before New York-based Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 collapse. Global growth may
average 3.25 percent to 3.5 percent in the next three to five
years, below the 4.7 percent pace of the five years leading up
to the 2008 slump, estimates  Stephen Roach , non-executive
chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia.  
 The S&P 500 has rallied this month as reports have signaled
the economic rebound may continue. Since July 12, 83 percent of
S&P 500 companies reporting quarterly results have topped
estimates. The International Monetary Fund boosted its forecast
for 2010 global growth to 4.6 percent from 4.2 percent on July 8
after a stronger-than-expected first half. That would be the
largest gain since 2007.  
 This month’s rally has trimmed the S&P 500’s second-quarter
retreat of 12 percent through yesterday, which was the  most  in a
year. The index is still down 8.4 percent from the 19-month high
it reached on April 23.  
 ‘Nasty’ Quarter  
 “It’s reassuring that we could bounce back from that nasty
second quarter,” said  Ralph Shive , the South Bend, Indiana-
based manager of the $1.5 billion Wasatch-1st Source Income
Equity Fund. “It shows the correction was probably overdone,
but we’re not back at the recovery high yet and we still need
better news on the economy for people to get really comfortable
about going back into equities.”  
 There have been 10 times that the Dow has fallen more than
5 percent and gone on to post a gain for the year, according to
data from Westport, Connecticut-based Birinyi Associates Inc.
going back to 1962. The index averages a 7.7 percent rally from
the date of the reversal through the end of the year, Birinyi
data show.  
 “Yesterday was big,” said  John Lynch , chief equity
strategist at the Wells Fargo Funds Management division of San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo & Co. that oversees $465 billion.
“The most recent pain is done. Yesterday really provides me
with confidence.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Caterpillar Inc. mining truck carries a load. Photographer: Jimmy Jeong/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., discusses the outlook for the global economy and financial markets.
     El-Erian talks with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt on Bloomberg Radio's "Surveillance." (This report is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Scott Wren, senior equity strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors and Matt Shapiro, trader at MWS Capital, talk about the outlook for stocks and the U.S. economy. 
     Wren and Shapiro speak with Carol Massar, Matt Miller, Julie Hyman, Dominic Chu and Adam Johnson on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Nicholas Sargen, chief investment officer at Fort Washington Investment Advisors, talks about the outlook for U.S. stocks and the economy.
     Sargen speaks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Most stocks fell, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declining for the first time in four days, as retailers slid after consumer confidence retreated to a five-month low. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Belski, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Co., talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about his investment strategy in U.S. stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
