-- DP World Handles 16% More Shipping Containers in First Half, Boosts Profit
-- Anthony DiPaola
-- 2010-07-27T08:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/dp-world-handles-16-more-shipping-containers-in-first-half-boosts-profit.html

          
          
             DP World Ltd. , the Middle East’s
biggest port operator, said it handled 16 percent more
cargo in the first half of the year at the 50 terminals the
company operates, boosting profit.  
 DP World handled 23.7 million TEU, or 20-foot-equivalent
container units, in the period from its broadest portfolio of
cargo shipping ports, it said today in a  statement . The Dubai
government-controlled company posted volume growth of 7 percent,
to 13.2 million TEU, at consolidated terminals.  
 “These first-half volumes, along with the continuation of
cost management, will lead to an improvement in first-half
profit after tax against the same period last year,” Chief
Executive Officer  Mohammed Sharaf  said in the statement.  
 Growth in container shipping will come primarily from Asia
this year, the company said. DP World, which manages ports from
the U.K. to China, aims to start operations at terminals in
India and Pakistan this year, it said.  
 “Whilst uncertainty remains over the sustainability of
trade volumes reported in the first half of the year, we
currently expect to deliver full-year results in line with
expectations,” Sharaf said. The company plans to announce
first-half results on Aug. 18.  
 Volume declined 8 percent last year, leading to a slide in
profit, as the global financial crisis cut demand for consumer
goods. The company handled 25.6 million TEUs at 28 consolidated
terminals in 2009, DP World said in January.  
 Dubai, the second-largest sheikhdom in the United Arab
Emirates, as well as some state-run companies, are being
buffeted by difficulties in repaying debt. Dubai World, the port
operator’s parent company, last week gave creditor banks a plan
to restructure borrowings.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        