-- Drinking Alcohol Regularly Reduces Risk of Rheumatoid Arthritis in Study
-- Iona Craig
-- 2010-07-27T23:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/drinking-alcohol-regularly-reduces-rheumatoid-arthritis-risk-study-finds.html

          
          
             Regular alcohol consumption provided
protection against rheumatoid arthritis and its painful effects,
U.K. researchers found in the first study to show the link in
humans.  
 Non-drinkers were four times more likely to develop
rheumatoid arthritis than people who drank alcohol on more than
10 days a month, according to the research published online
today by the U.K. journal  Rheumatology . Arthritis patients who
drank regularly had less severe symptoms than non-drinkers, the
study found.  
 There is no known cause or cure for rheumatoid arthritis,
known as RA, which affects more than 500,000 people in the U.K.,
according to the National Institute for Health and Clinical
Excellence. The disease occurs when the immune system attacks
the joints, causing pain and swelling and potentially leading to
severe disability and early death. Alcohol blunts the activity
of the immune system, and more research is needed to determine
how that process works, the researchers said.  
 “We know that alcohol reduces immune activity at least to
some extent, and suspect that this is the main reason that
alcohol consumption is associated with a reduction in severity
of RA,” said  James Maxwell , a rheumatologist at the Rotherham
Foundation NHS Trust and author of the study, in an e-mailed
statement. "Alcohol may also have a mild pain-killing effect."  
 Researchers compared 873 rheumatoid arthritis patients from
the Royal Hallamshire Hospital in Sheffield, England, to 1,004
people without the illness. The participants answered a
questionnaire, had X-rays and blood tests taken and had their
joints examined. Those taking part in the study were asked how
often they drank alcohol in the month before their inclusion in
the study.  
 Less Damage  
 “X-rays showed there was less damage to joints, blood
tests showed lower levels of inflammation and there was less
joint pain, swelling and disability” among drinkers, Maxwell
said.  
 His report cited  previous  research using ethanol and mice
which pointed to testosterone as a potential link to the
inflammation-fighting effects, as levels of the hormone rose in
line with increased ethanol consumption. Ethanol is the
intoxicating component of alcoholic beverages.  
 "The effects on the immune system may be influenced by
testosterone, but we didn’t investigate that specifically in our
patients, and we found similar effects in both men and women,"
Maxwell said.  
 Today’s findings supported  Scandinavian research  published
in June 2008 showing that alcohol consumption reduced the risk
of rheumatoid arthritis by 40 to 50 percent. Maxwell suggested a
further study should be done with a larger group, recording
alcohol intake over a prolonged period before any
recommendations could be made to doctors or patients about
alcohol consumption.  
 “This would also allow the possibility of investigating
whether certain types of drink -- wine, beer or spirits -- would
be more or less beneficial,” Maxwell said in an e-mail.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Iona Craig  in London at   icraig2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Arthritis patients who drank regularly had less severe symptoms of Arthritis than non-drinkers, a study says. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
