-- Duguay Says `Gradual,' `Weighed' Bank of Canada Rate View Is Consistent
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-07-27T19:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/duguay-says-gradual-weighed-bank-of-canada-rate-view-is-consistent.html

          
          
             Bank of Canada Deputy Governor
 Pierre Duguay  said there’s no inconsistency in the bank’s
projection for a “gradual” increase in interest rates and an
earlier statement that any decision will be “weighed
carefully” against the economic recovery.  
 The bank raised its  key interest rate  for a second month
July 20 and said further action will be “weighed carefully
against domestic and global economic developments.” Two days
later the bank’s quarterly economic forecast paper said: “this
projection includes a gradual reduction in monetary stimulus
consistent with achieving the inflation target” of 2 percent.  
 “There is no inconsistency between those two things,”
Duguay said in an interview today in Ottawa. “Clearly we will
have to look at how the global and the domestic economy are
evolving and make our decisions in light of that.”  
 The bank will raise its key rate at the next decision in
September and pause at either its October or December meeting,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The rate on the
 six-month  overnight index swap, a measure of what investors bet
the central bank’s rate will average over that period, rose to
0.987 percent today from 0.975 percent yesterday.  
 “Our policy will be conducted with every FAD, every six to
seven weeks, we reassess,” Duguay said, referring to the policy
decisions called fixed-announcement dates. The comment about a
gradual increase in borrowing costs “isn’t a policy statement,
it’s a description of what’s in the base case,” he said.  
 “In that base case, and there is a lot of risk on both
sides of that base case, on the upside and the downside, in that
base case we have interest rates rising gradually,” he said.  
 Complete Change  
 Duguay retires July 29 after joining the bank in 1973 and
serving as a deputy governor since 2000. He will be replaced by
 Agathe Cote , marking a complete change in the membership of the
interest rate-setting panel since Governor  Mark Carney  was
appointed in 2007.  
 Canada should keep a separate currency from the U.S.
because the country’s economies are even more different than in
Europe, Duguay said.  
 “Given that the U.S. and Canadian economies react
differently to shocks, particularly commodity price shocks,
having a flexible exchange rate and having this additional
possibility of conducting our own independent monetary policy is
serving us well,” he said.  
 Duguay didn’t say if he agreed with a July 14 paper by the
C.D. Howe Institute, which said there may be an inconsistency
between the bank’s economic model and policy makers’ view of the
economy. The paper said the bank’s internal modeling would show
the bank’s policy interest rate may only rise to 2 percent by
the end of 2012.  
 “The model is only one element that informs the monetary
policy decision,” Duguay said. “We look at everything.”  
 Group of 20 and other global policy makers are
“progressing very well” on drafting rules to strengthen the
financial system after the global credit crisis, Duguay said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        