-- DuPont Says Auto Components, Electronics Will Help Drive Second-Half Sales
-- Jack Kaskey
-- 2010-07-27T20:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/dupont-says-auto-components-electronics-will-help-drive-second-half-sales.html

          
          
             DuPont Co. , the third-biggest U.S.
chemical maker, said second-half sales will rise on better-than-
expected automobile production and continued demand for
materials used in electronics and paint.  
 Global auto output will increase 17 percent this year, more
than a previous forecast of 13 percent, Chief Executive Officer
 Ellen Kullman  said today on a conference call with analysts.
Improved vehicle production helps the coatings unit, the world’s
biggest maker of auto paint, and the performance-materials unit,
which makes plastic for car parts and packaging.  
 Company  sales  will increase more than 15 percent this year,
compared with a previous forecast of 10 percent and a second-
quarter gain of 26 percent, Kullman said.  
 “We expect the recovery that we’ve seen in our business to
continue, but in a more moderate pace than we’ve experienced in
the first half,” Chief Financial Officer  Nicholas Fanandakis 
said on the call. “We’re seeing that steady sequential
improvement in pretty much all of our businesses.”  
 DuPont , based in Wilmington, Delaware, rose $1.39, or 3.6
percent, to $40.38 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  The shares  have gained 20 percent this year.  
 Electronics, Coatings  
 Sales volumes will increase about 5 percent in the second
half amid improved demand for products used in electronics and
coatings, such as titanium dioxide pigment, Fanandakis said.
Strong second-quarter demand in the electronics and performance-
chemicals units, including products such as solar-cell materials
and refrigerants, has continued in the current period, he said.  
 Second-quarter sales of photovoltaic materials soared 150
percent, compared with the company’s 50 percent growth target,
Kullman said. DuPont has plans to reach more than $1 billion in
solar equipment sales by next year.  
 “The recovery has been stronger, especially in segments
like electronics and photovoltaics, than we anticipated as we
entered the year,” Kullman said.  
 Sales growth in Greater China, including Taiwan, will slow
to 15 percent in the second half after surging 70 percent in the
first half, she said. Full-year China sales will increase about
40 percent to $3 billion, the CEO said.  
 “You are seeing growth returning to a more sustainable
pace” in the region, Kullman said.  
 Full-Year Forecast  
 Full-year earnings excluding some items will rise to $2.90
to $3.05 a share, compared with $2.03 last year, DuPont said
today in a statement. That exceeds a previous  prediction  of
$2.50 to $2.70 and the $2.64 average estimate of 14 analysts in
the Bloomberg survey.  
 DuPont earned $2.41 a share in the  first half , so the
forecast implies second-half profit of 49 cents to 64 cents a
share, less than the 99 cents posted a year earlier.  
 Net income in the second half may drop because of lower
contributions from hypertension medicines Cozaar and Hyzaar,
which lost U.S. patent protection in April, Fanandakis said. The
drugs will add as much as $480 million to profit this year,
compared with $1.04 billion in 2009, the CFO said.  
 Currency exchange will reduce second-half profit by 8 cents
a share with the euro trading at $1.29 and by 12 cents if the
euro drops to $1.24, the CFO said. The euro currently trades at
$1.30.  
 The agriculture unit, which traditionally posts losses in
the second half after planting has concluded in the Northern
Hemisphere, will have a wider loss this year because of spending
on growth initiatives, Fanandakis said.  
 Corn-Market Share  
 DuPont grabbed 2 percentage points of market share in North
American corn seed and 4 points in domestic soybean seed this
year, the second straight year for such gains, Fanandakis said.  
 Monsanto Co. hasn’t gained share in U.S. corn or soybean
seed markets in two years.  
 Second-quarter  net income  more than doubled to $1.16
billion, or $1.26 a share, from $417 million, or 46 cents, a
year earlier. Profit excluding some items was $1.17 a share,
topping the 94-cent  average estimate  of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  
 Kullman unveiled in November a plan to increase earnings 20
percent a year through 2012. She said sales gains of at least 10
percent will more than make up for the loss of royalties from
Cozaar and Hyzaar.  
 DuPont,  founded  in 1802 to make gunpowder, produces
thousands of products, from Corian countertops and Teflon
coatings to Tyvek weather barrier and Kevlar bullet-proof
fibers.  
 Dow Chemical Co.  and Exxon Mobil Corp. are the two largest
U.S. chemical makers by sales.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        