-- Leaked Documents Underscore Lawmakers' Concerns on Afghan War
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-07-27T13:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/leaked-documents-underscore-u-s-lawmakers-concerns-on-war-in-afghanistan.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  faces renewed
concern about his Afghanistan war strategy after leaked military
documents suggested Pakistan’s main intelligence agency secretly
aided the Taliban and others the U.S. is trying to defeat.  
 Disclosure of the documents, as Congress this week
considers funding for the U.S. troop buildup in Afghanistan,
underscored questions about the war while many lawmakers prepare
to go home to campaign in August.  
 “Some of these documents reinforce a longstanding concern
of mine about the supporting role of some Pakistani officials in
the Afghan insurgency,” Senate Armed Services Committee
Chairman  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, said in a statement
yesterday.  
 The reports show “what’s been long known,” that the war
effort lacked personnel and resources, Levin said. “That’s why
President Obama ordered a new strategy” last year, he said.  
 Some of the 92,000 classified reports, disclosed July 25 by
the website Wikileaks, say that members of Pakistan’s Inter-
Services Intelligence Directorate helped the Taliban and other
Islamic rebels. The documents, covering 2004 through 2009, were
reported by the New York Times, the London-based  Guardian  and
the German magazine  Der Spiegel , which said Wikileaks provided
them the reports three weeks ago.  
 Pentagon Probe  
 The U.S. military has opened “a very robust
investigation” with a team working “round the clock” to find
“who’s responsible for breaking the law here and leaking this
classified information,” Pentagon spokesman  Geoff Morrell  said
today on the CBS “Early Morning” show.  
 The documents are “not particularly new or illuminating,”
Morrell said. The most recent “is at least six months old” and
doesn’t reflect the current U.S.-Pakistan “partnership that is
so vital to our success in Afghanistan.” This relationship
“has been trending in the right direction for months, if not a
couple of years now,” he said.  
 Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman  John Kerry  said
the leaked documents “raise serious questions about the reality
of America’s policy toward Pakistan and Afghanistan.” Those
policies “are at a critical stage,” and the documents “make
the calibrations needed to get the policy right more urgent,”
Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat, said.  
 ‘Not Pretty’  
 “I’ve been to a number of briefings and I’ve always been
provided a more upbeat picture than the one” depicted by the
documents, said Representative  James McGovern , a Massachusetts
Democrat who opposes Obama’s Afghan policy. “The picture that
is painted here is not pretty.”  
 White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said the relationship
between the Taliban and Pakistan’s intelligence service was
“publicly known for some time.” The documents don’t reflect
improvements Pakistan made after U.S. pressure, he said.  
 “Nobody is here to declare mission accomplished,” Gibbs
said.  
 Questions sparked by the documents likely will surface
today during the Senate Armed Services Committee’s hearing on
Marine Corps General  James Mattis ’s nomination to lead the U.S.
Central Command, which controls U.S. troops in Afghanistan.  
 30,000 Troops  
 Obama announced in December plans to send another 30,000
combat troops to Afghanistan, and Congress is under pressure to
pass legislation paying for the buildup before taking its
monthlong summer recess. Obama has said he will start to draw
down U.S. forces in July 2011 and give more security
responsibility to the Afghans, depending on conditions.  
 Polls show support for the war waning. Almost 6 in 10
respondents in a Bloomberg National Poll conducted July 9-12
said Afghanistan is a lost cause.  
 Also, 60 percent of Americans surveyed thought the
withdrawal of forces should start in July 2011 even if the
situation in Afghanistan remains unstable. The poll of 1,004
adults had a margin of error of 3.1 percentage points.  
 The document leak constitutes the “the largest single
unauthorized release of currently classified records -- multiple
times the volume of the Pentagon Papers” about the Vietnam war
leaked to newspapers in 1971, said  Steve Aftergood , director for
the Federation of American Scientists Project on Government
Secrecy.  
 Reveal Injustices  
 Julian Assange, founder of WikiLeaks.org, says his mission
is to reveal injustices. The site, which serves as an electronic
drop for confidential documents, promises that whistleblowers
are protected and given anonymity.  
 Representative  Nita Lowey , a New York Democrat who leads
the House appropriations subcommittee that controls foreign aid,
said the documents “contribute to concerns about our partners
in the Afghan government, military and police and the actions of
the Pakistani military and intelligence services.”  
 Some lawmakers give Obama credit for steering more
resources to the region and having a clearer strategy than
former President  George W. Bush .  
 “Under the new counterinsurgency strategy implemented
earlier this year, we now have the pieces in place to turn
things around,” said House Armed Services Committee Chairman
 Ike Skelton , a Missouri Democrat. He said the documents are too
dated to reflect Pakistan’s current relationship with Islamist
insurgents.  
 Arizona Senator  John McCain , ranking Republican on the
Armed Services Committee, said, “We are finally beginning to
address many of the problems highlighted within these leaked
documents.” McCain generally supports the war effort, though he
opposes setting a date to begin a withdrawal.  
 ‘Predates’ Obama’s Policy  
 House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, said she
doesn’t believe the leak will affect support for the war-funding
legislation because the group of reports “predates the
president’s new policy.”  
 The Senate last week approved $60 billion to fund the troop
buildup in Afghanistan and other needs. The House version,
passed earlier this month after Democratic leaders used
parliamentary tactics to push it through, included funds to help
states avoid having to fire teachers.  
 Congressional leaders are pushing for passage of a
compromise.  
 The House plans to debate a nonbinding resolution by
Representative  Dennis Kucinich , an Ohio Democrat, seeking
removal of U.S. troops from Pakistan.  
 The documents show it is “indisputable” that “our nation
has fallen into a trap of continued occupation and escalation
that can only lead to more tragedy,” Kucinich said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Carl Levin talks during CBS "Face The Nation. Photographer: Chris Usher/CBS via Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
