-- Earnings Growth in India Offer Investment Opportunities, UTI's Sinha Says
-- Haslinda Amin
-- 2010-07-27T05:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/earnings-growth-in-india-offer-investment-opportunities-uti-s-sinha-says.html

          
          
             India’s  corporate earnings  may grow
20 percent in the next two years, offering investors an
opportunity in a market where valuations currently appear “very
costly,” according to UTI Asset Management Co.  
 UTI favors infrastructure, banking, consumer durables and
technology stocks, Chairman and Managing Director  U.K. Sinha 
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. A climb to 19,200 for
the benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index would be
“reasonable,” he said, declining to give a time frame.  
 “If you look at the macro situation, an 8.5 percent GDP
growth or thereabouts is given,” Sinha said. “A 20 percent
increase in the bottom line of the corporates is something I
would say is going to happen in the next couple of years.”  
 The forecast represents the fastest earnings growth in
three years, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The
Sensitive Index, or  Sensex , rose less than 0.1 percent to
18,030.06 as of 11:10 a.m., extending the advance this year to
3.2 percent, the second-best performer among the world’s 10
largest markets after Germany’s DAX Index.  
 Reliance Industries Ltd. , India’s biggest company by market
value, is expected to report its results today. Net income in
the three months ended June 30 is expected to rise 33 percent to
48.4 billion rupees, the mean profit estimate of 20 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Companies from  Infosys Technologies Ltd. , India’s second-
largest software exporter, to  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. , the
nation’s biggest carmaker, have so far posted profits that
lagged behind analyst estimates for the quarter ended June 30.  
 Earnings Downgrades  
 Jyotivardhan Jaipuria , head of research at the local unit
of Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said on July 13 there may be
“a spell of earnings downgrades” and gains in stocks may be
capped as share prices exceed the outlook for earnings.  
 The  Sensex  is valued at 17 times estimated earnings,
compared with a multiple of 13 times for the MSCI AC World Index
that tracks both emerging and developed nations. The valuation
is the highest in Asia excluding Japan and among the BRIC
countries that also include China, India and Russia.  
 UTI’s Sinha also said the Reserve Bank of India, which is
forecast to raise its  reverse-repurchase  rate by a quarter-
percentage point today, should have increased borrowing costs
earlier amid a “big lag” in the nation’s investment cycle.  
 The central bank, which is set to release the rate decision
at about 11:30 a.m. in Mumbai today, said in a report yesterday
“anti-inflationary monetary policy actions” are a
“necessity” to contain inflation. The nation’s wholesale-price
inflation rate has stayed above 10 percent since February.  
 “In this round, the RBI has been behind the curve,” he
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Indranil Pan, chief economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Mark Barton about the outlook for Reserve Bank of India monetary policy.
     India needs tighter monetary policy to cool inflation, the central bank said, signaling the possibility of an interest-rate increase today. Pan, speaking from Mumbai, also discusses the government's decision to allow state-run refiners to raise gasoline and diesel costs in a bid to cut its subsidies bill. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
