-- Amgen, Genzyme Gain Time Under Medicare Billing For Oral Dialysis Drugs
-- Rob Waters
-- 2010-07-27T20:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/medicare-cut-in-dialysis-fees-may-slash-amgen-sales-of-anemia-drug-epogen.html

          
          
             Amgen Inc. , the world’s largest
biotechnology company, and Genzyme Corp. will be able to
separately bill Medicare for oral drugs used in dialysis until
2014, longer than first proposed. The shares rose.  
 Medicare, the U.S. health program for the elderly and
disabled, yesterday imposed rules that bundle, or combine into
one fee, payments for multiple services and drugs that dialysis
centers provide to patients with severe kidney disease. Oral
medications that have no intravenous equivalent won’t be
included until Jan. 1, 2014.  
 The oral drugs were part of the bundled fee when the rules
were proposed last September. The oral medicines used by
dialysis patients include Amgen’s Sensipar and two products from
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  Genzyme , Renagel and Renvela,
which cut phosphate levels.  
 “There do seem to be favorable elements for industry
within the rule,” said  Arthur Henderson , an analyst for
Jefferies & Co., in a telephone interview yesterday from his
office in Nashville. That’s because the fee paid to dialysis
centers led by Fresenius Medical Care AG of Bad Homburg,
Germany, and DaVita Inc. of El Segundo, California, will decline
only 2 percent to $250 to $260 per treatment and because of the
delay in including the oral drugs, he said.  
 Faraheme Hurt  
 The new rules may cut sales of Faraheme, an intravenous
iron-boosting drug from AMAG Pharmaceuticals Inc., as the
centers opt instead for cheaper products, said  Yaron Werber , an
analyst for Citi Investment Research in New York.  
 “Why would centers use an expensive intravenous iron
product instead of a fairly comparable and much cheaper IV iron
formulations?” Werber said in a telephone interview today.  
 Amgen, based in Thousand Oaks, California, rose 84 cents,
or 1.6 percent, to $54.51 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market
composite trading. The shares have declined 3.6 percent this
year. Genzyme gained 13 cents to $67.51, and has increased 38
percent this year.  
 Fresenius Medical Care rose 4.9 percent in Frankfurt
trading to 43.15 euros. DaVita fell 34 cents, less than 1
percent, to $60.52 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 The rules released yesterday follow three years of debate
over the cost and risks of drugs used in dialysis treatment. The
old reimbursement formula used by the  U.S. Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services  created an incentive for dialysis centers
to “overuse profitable, separately billable drugs,” the agency
said yesterday in a document  announcing  the rules.  
 Epogen Sales  
 Sales of Amgen’s intravenous Epogen, the world’s top-
selling anemia drug, is likely to fall under the new rules.
Epogen sales may decline 38 percent from last year’s $2.6
billion as the regulations are phased in over the next three
years, said  Michael Yee , an analyst with RBC Capital Markets in
San Francisco, in a telephone interview.  
 Anemia drugs “were a profit center, now they’ll be an
expense,” Yee said in a July 23 telephone interview. “Now
there will be some incentive to use the minimal amount.”  
 Kidney disease  depletes patients’ red-blood cell levels and
can worsen their fatigue and increase their need for
transfusions. Epogen is used to boost those blood cells, though
the ideal level is still debated. Pushing them too high with
greater doses of Epogen can add to the risk of heart disease and
stroke, studies found.  
 Concern for Undertreatment  
 Amgen had submitted comments to the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services opposing Sensipar’s inclusion in the
bundle. The company argued that making Sensipar and other oral
medications part of a single-fee package would cause dialysis
patients to be undertreated for  hyperparathyroidism  and would be
detrimental for patients who need these drugs, Amgen spokeswoman
 Emma Hurley  said in a July 23 telephone interview.  
 The delay in making the oral medications part of the bundle
gives Amgen and Genzyme a transitional period and allows them to
maintain current revenue from their drugs, said  Geoffrey Porges ,
an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  
 The delay “acknowledged the concerns expressed in the
dialysis community,” Hurley said in an e-mail today. “This
will help maintain access to important therapies for dialysis
patients.”  
 Sensipar is used to treat hyperparathyroidism, a
complication of kidney disease that leads to excess levels of a
hormone and too much calcium in the blood. It had sales of $651
million last year and analysts projected that to rise.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Amgen Inc. flag flies at their headquarters in Thousand Oaks, California. Source: Amgen via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
