-- Medtronic's Spine Device Faces Uncertain Approval After Close Panel Vote
-- Molly Peterson
-- 2010-07-28T20:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/medtronic-wins-u-s-fda-panel-s-backing-for-its-experimental-spinal-device.html

          
          
             Medtronic Inc .’s experimental spinal
device may face a battle for U.S. regulatory approval after a
narrow 6-5 vote from a federal advisory panel that the device’s
benefits outweigh its risks.  
 The device, Amplify, is used for spinal fusion surgery on
the lower back. It works well enough to overcome concerns raised
by studies that linked the product to a cancer risk, six
scientific advisers to the Food and Drug Administration said
yesterday. Five panelists disagreed, and three others abstained.
While the FDA usually follows panel recommendations, it isn’t
required to do so.  
 Medtronic, the world’s largest maker of heart devices, is
trying to revive growth in its $3.5-billion spinal products
business, which  accounted  for 22 percent of the Minneapolis-
based company’s $15.8 billion in revenue for the year ended
April 30. If approved, Amplify may add as much as $175 million,
or 8 cents a share, to earnings in its first year, Leerink Swann
analyst  Rick Wise  said in a research report yesterday.  
 “Given the close vote and concerns raised by the panel, we
would expect the FDA to take its time before issuing a final
decision,”  Michael Weinstein , a New York-based analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a note to investors today. An FDA
decision may not come until “well into 2011,” he wrote.  
 The FDA advisers held their meeting in Gaithersburg,
Maryland.  
 Shares Decline  
 Medtronic fell 94 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $36.45 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, after rising
1.1 percent yesterday.  
 In related balloting yesterday, the FDA panel voted 9-4
that the product was safe and 10-3 that it was effective for
spinal fusion surgery.  
 The advisers discussed whether studies showing the larger
number of cancer cases among patients who received Amplify may
have been caused by the genetically engineered bone-growth
protein that is part of the device.  
 “We can’t say one way or the other if there is an
increased incidence of cancer in this group, but I personally
think it’s something that needs to be followed through,” said
 Carmen Allegra , an oncologist at the University of Florida in
Gainesville.  
 Not Disturbed  
 “I’m not too disturbed by the findings” on cancer, said
panel member  Alfred Neugut , an oncologist at Columbia University
Medical Center in New York.  
 If Medtronic’s bone mineral protein were the cause of the
cancer, “one would have expected a preponderance of a specific
type or two of cancers, which is not the case,”  Larry Biegelsen , an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities in New York,
wrote in a note to investors yesterday.  
 Amplify combines the company’s bone growth protein product,
Infuse, and a ceramic device implanted in the spine for
posterior spinal fusion through the patient’s lower back. The
bone protein, which received U.S. approval in 2002, is
authorized for use in anterior fusion surgery, a lower back
operation performed through the front of the patient. It’s also
cleared for dental use and lower leg fractures.  
 About 660,000 back surgeries were performed in the U.S. in
2009, according to  Millennium Research Group , a medical market
research company in Toronto. In spinal fusion surgery, bone
grafts are used in the spine to lock together, or “fuse,” the
area between two or more vertebrae to treat back pain.  
 Success Rates  
 After two years, surgery for patients using Amplify was
successful 61 percent of the time compared with 56 percent for
those who had standard procedures using a bone graft from the
hip, according to the FDA report. Results after five years found
successful operations for 44 percent of Amplify patients
compared with 35 percent for standard care, the agency said.  
 In the two-year study of 463 patients that Medtronic used
to seek approval of Amplify, those treated with the device had
shorter surgical times, less blood loss, and needed fewer repeat
operations compared with those who had the standard procedure,
according to results published in July 2009 in the  Journal of
Bone & Joint Surgery.   
 Approval of Amplify will boost sales of Infuse, although
how much it helps will depend on whether private and government
insurers decide to reimburse doctors and hospitals for its use,
 Les Funtleyder , an analyst with Miller Tabak & Co. in New York,
said in an e-mail yesterday.  
 “Insurers will have to chime in and decide if they want to
pay for this,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net ;
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Medtronic Inc Spinal System  
                       
                         
                           Lance Murphey/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Medtronic Inc., engineer measures the mechanical properties of a spinal system in a Medtronic Inc. biomechanical testing laboratory. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Medtronic Inc., engineer measures the mechanical properties of a spinal system in a Medtronic Inc. biomechanical testing laboratory. Photographer: Lance Murphey/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
