-- Eisai May Start Skin-Patch Aricept U.S. Sales in 2011
-- Kanoko Matsuyama
-- 2010-07-27T07:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/eisai-may-start-selling-aricept-drug-in-skin-patch-form-in-u-s-next-year.html

          
          
             Eisai Co.  plans to introduce a skin-
patch version of the Aricept Alzheimer’s disease treatment in
the U.S. as early as the second quarter of next year to help
buffer an anticipated decline in sales of its biggest drug.  
 Teikoku Seiyaku Co., Eisai’s development partner, submitted
patient-trial data to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  on
June 30, Lynn Kramer, head of neuroscience product development
at the Tokyo-based company, said on a conference call today. The
regulator typically takes 10 months to complete a review.  
 Eisai is counting on new Aricept formulations including the
skin patch and a stronger dose tablet approved last week to
maintain U.S.  sales  at half of current levels after patent
protection expires in November. Aricept generated about $3.7
billion for Eisai last fiscal year, 60 percent of which came
from the U.S., the world’s largest pharmaceutical market.  
 The drugmaker said the patch would be applied once a week
and be as effective as the 10-milligram, once-daily tablet
currently sold. Eisai will have three years of exclusive sales
for the patch, which “would be very difficult to copy as
well,” Kramer said.  
 Eisai  rose 0.6 percent to close at 2,905 yen in Tokyo
trading. The shares gained 3.9 percent yesterday, the most in 14
months, after the U.S. FDA said July 23 that it approved a 23-
milligram, once-daily Aricept tablet for patients with moderate
to severe Alzheimer’s disease.  
 Existing Patients  
 The 23-milligram tablet is aimed at patients who have been
taking the current formulation for at least three months.  
 Eisai is considering developing a skin patch of the higher
dose Aricept, Kramer said. In February 2009, the company bought
rights from closely held Teikoku, based in Kagawa prefecture,
southwestern Japan, to sell the patch version in the U.S.  
 New York-based  Pfizer Inc.  and Eisai share promotion rights
for Aricept in the U.S. and parts of Europe.  
 Pfizer and Eisai have a combined sales force of 1,300 to
sell the higher-dose Aricept in the U.S., where it will have
three years of protection from copycat drugs,  Lonnel Coats , head
of Eisai’s U.S. unit, said on the call.  
 Sales  of the stronger-dose Aricept are estimated to reach
at least $600 million by 2012, Coats said.  
 Eisai is targeting 1 million in annual prescriptions of the
new Aricept tablet in three years,  Takeshi Shimizu , a company
spokesman, said by telephone.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kanoko Matsuyama  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        