-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise for Sixth Day on Outlook for Economic Growth
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-07-27T21:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/emerging-market-stocks-rise-for-sixth-day-on-outlook-for-economic-growth.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks climbed for a
sixth day and currencies strengthened as bank earnings topped
analysts’ estimates and a better-than-projected U.S. home sales
report bolstered confidence in the global economy.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced 0.6 percent to
991.04 at 5:26 p.m. in New York and traded as high as 995.33,
the highest intraday level since May 4. India’s rupee
appreciated 0.8 percent against the dollar after the central
bank raised its reverse repurchase rate more than economists
estimated.  
 Emerging market stocks reduced gains after confidence among
U.S. consumers declined in July to a five-month low, a sign the
lack of jobs will limit the economy’s recovery.  
 Asian stock markets rose after the U.S. Commerce Department
said yesterday that sales of new homes increased to an annual
pace of 330,000, topping the 310,000 median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey. East European banks including
Budapest-based OTP Bank Nyrt. advanced as second-quarter profits
at  UBS AG  and Deutsche Bank AG topped analysts’ projections.  
 “The emerging markets including the BRICs have a better
outlook,” said  Cynthia Steer , the chief research strategist at
Darien, Connecticut-based CRA Rogerscasey, referring to the
largest emerging markets of Brazil, Russia, India and China.  
 Developing-nation economies will expand 6.8 percent as a
group this year, more than double the 2.6 percent pace for
advanced countries, according to estimates from the Washington-
based International Monetary Fund. The MSCI emerging index has
climbed 0.2 percent this year, compared with a 3.2 percent drop
in the  MSCI World Index .  
 Bovespa Climbs for Seventh Day  
 Brazil’s Bovespa stock index advanced for a seventh day,
the longest winning streak this year, as investors speculated
interest rates will rise more slowly and bank lending expanded.  
 The Bovespa rose 0.4 percent to 66,674.44 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo at 4 p.m. New York time. Retailer Lojas
Renner SA and cosmetics maker Natura Cosmeticos SA surged as
Brazil’s traders reduced bets for higher borrowing costs,
boosting the outlook for credit demand. Tele Norte Leste
Participacoes SA rallied amid speculation Portugal Telecom SGPS
SA will buy a stake in the firm, known as Oi.  
 Rupee Rally  
 Russia’s Micex Index and India’s  Bombay Stock Exchange
Sensitive Index  increased 0.3 percent. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index slipped 0.5 percent amid concern banks may face
losses on loans to local governments.  
 The rupee strengthened the most since June 21. India’s
domestic economic recovery is firmly in place and is
strengthening, central bank Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said in a
statement after raising the key reverse repurchase rate to 4.5
percent from 4 percent. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a quarter-point increase.  
 The Hungarian forint led gains in emerging-market
currencies after the government sold 50 billion forint ($230
million) of three-month Treasury bills, 5 billion forint more
than planned. Investors submitted bids worth 133.3 billion
forint, according to auction results on the debt management
agency’s Bloomberg page.  
 Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index  increased 1.4 percent to a
record high after the nation’s central bank reduced its year-end
inflation forecast and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  called
on other European Union nations to drop their objections to
Turkey’s joining the 27-nation bloc.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        