-- Emerging Market Equities a `Buy' Compared to Other Assets, Old Mutual Says
-- Renee Bonorchis
-- 2010-07-27T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/emerging-market-equities-a-buy-compared-to-other-assets-old-mutual-says.html

          
          
             The Old Mutual Investment Group of
South Africa, the money manager owned by  Old Mutual Plc , said
emerging-market equities are a “buy” compared to the low
returns offered by other asset classes.  
 “When we look at current valuations we find that emerging
markets are still trading at a discount to developed markets,
even when you consider the risk,”  Peter Brooke , head of macro
strategy investments at  Omigsa , as it’s known, said in prepared
remarks for a conference in Johannesburg today. “I’ve been
increasing the emerging-market equity exposure in the funds I
manage where possible, and see this asset class as a ‘buy’.”  
 Fourteen of the 19 emerging-market bourses tracked by
Bloomberg have shown a positive return this year while developed
markets, including France, the U.S. and Japan, are showing a
decline. Stocks in developed markets have suffered in the past
two years amid the global financial crisis, European debt
problems and the subsequent bank stress tests.  
 Investors from developed countries searching for returns
are already looking at assets like South African  government 
bonds, ignoring the higher political risk, according to Brooke.
Foreign investors bought 5.03 billion rand ($684 million) of
bonds last week, JSE Ltd. data shows, with bond purchases double
those in 2009.  
 “When inflation becomes a more serious threat, history has
shown that it’s much better to be in equities than in bonds, and
dividend payouts provide more reliable protection over time than
cash,” Brooke said. “Investors who are comfortable with some
equity risk should consider including funds focusing on high
dividend-yielding shares in their portfolio.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        