-- Enbridge Michigan Line Stays Shut as Oil Spill Spreads to Kalamazoo River
-- Samantha Zee
-- 2010-07-27T23:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/enbridge-michigan-line-stays-shut-as-oil-spill-spreads-to-kalamazoo-river.html

          
          
             Enbridge Energy Partners LP , the
Houston-based pipeline company, has crews working to clean up an
oil spill from a pipeline in southern Michigan that spread from
a creek to the Kalamazoo River, affecting birds and fish.  
 The leak on line 6B, part of Enbridge’s Lakehead System,
was detected at about 9:30 a.m. yesterday when pressure on the
line dropped, the company said.  
 An estimated 19,500 barrels of crude oil spilled into a
creek near the company’s Marshall, Michigan, pump station before
valves on either side of the leak were shut down, Enbridge Chief
Executive Officer  Patrick Daniel  said on a conference call
today.  
 “Oil entered the Tallmadge Creek and found its way to the
Kalamazoo River,” Daniel said. “Teams have been working
through the night and day working on the containment and clean
up.”  
 Oil has already traveled about 16 miles (26 kilometers)
downstream from the spill site, he said. The Kalamazoo River
flows into Lake Michigan. The spill is “the second- or third-
largest for the company,” Daniel said.  
 Line 6B is a 30-inch pipeline that can transport 190,000
barrels a day of light synthetics and heavy and medium crude oil
to Sarnia, Ontario from Griffith, Indiana. The cause of the leak
is under investigation, Daniel said.  
 Skimmers, Vacuum Trucks  
 Enbridge has crews using a temporary dike, containment
booms, oil skimmers and vacuum trucks to gather oil and stop the
spill spreading, he said.  
 The pipeline serves refineries in areas including Toledo,
Ohio, Detroit and Sarnia, Daniel said. These include plants in
Toledo run by  BP Plc  and  Sunoco Inc.,  refineries in the Detroit
area including  Marathon Oil Corp.’s  plant and Sarnia facilities
run by  Imperial Oil Ltd .,  Suncor Energy Inc ., and Royal Dutch
Shell Plc.  
 “Line 6B is shut down and we can’t estimate when it will
restart,” Daniel said. The company previously forecast the line
would be repaired in time to be restarted tomorrow.  
 Enbridge’s Line 5 also serves the refineries and that
remains in service, Daniel said.  
 So far, refineries served by the line remain unaffected by
the supply disruption. Suncor’s spokesman Dany Laferriere said
there was no significant impact on its operations at the
company’s Sarnia plant.  
 “Marathon’s Detroit refinery does receive some supply from
the Enbridge line,” said  Robert Calmus , a company spokesman.
“Operations are normal.”  
 Kristina Zimmer , a spokeswoman for Shell’s refinery in
Sarnia, said the plant wasn’t expecting the pipeline disruption
to affect operations.  
 Air and water quality in the affected area is being
monitored and containment specialists trained to handle wildlife
coated in oily residue are on site, Enbridge said.  
 “Enbridge will do what it takes to clean this up and to
restore the natural beauty of this area,” Daniel said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Samantha Zee  in San Francisco at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        