-- Canadian Stocks Fall on Decline in U.S. Durable-Goods Orders; Teck Drops
-- Matt Walcoff
-- 2010-07-28T20:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/enbridge-husky-energy-iesi-bfc-canadian-equity-preview-for-july-28.html

          
          
             Canadian stocks  fell for a second
day, led by commodity producers, after U.S. durable-goods orders
dropped and crude oil inventories unexpectedly increased.  
 Enbridge Inc. , Canada’s biggest pipeline company, lost 2
percent as a Michigan pipeline owned by its U.S. affiliate
leaked into nearby rivers. Rogers Communications Inc. slid 3.4
percent after an analyst cut his rating on the wireless carrier.
Canadian Natural Resources Ltd., Canada’s second-biggest energy
company by market value, declined 2.3 percent as oil futures
failed to advance for a fourth day.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  fell 20.06
points, or 0.2 percent, to 11,696.63. The S&P/TSX has lost 0.4
percent this year as economic data indicating a slowing economic
recovery overshadows stronger-than-estimated corporate earnings.  
 “There have been a few negative numbers in a row,” said
 Ari Levy , who manages C$680 million ($656 million) at TD Asset
Management in Toronto. “Perhaps people are showing more
caution.”  
 Durable-goods orders in the U.S. decreased 1 percent in
June, the Commerce Department said today in Washington. All but
four of 76 economists in a  Bloomberg survey  had forecast an
increase or no change.  
 Enbridge, Teck  
 The U.S. Conference Board’s index of consumer confidence
dropped to a five-month low yesterday after initial jobless
claims in the country increased more than the median economist
estimate last week. Seventy-five percent of Canadian exports
went to the U.S. last year, according to  Statistics Canada .  
 Enbridge and Teck Resources Ltd. dropped as environmental
issues overshadowed  quarterly earnings  that topped their average
analyst estimate, excluding certain items.  
 Enbridge lost 2 percent to C$50.53 as more than 800,000
gallons of oil spilled from an Enbridge Energy Partners LP
pipeline into the Kalamazoo River, according to the Associated
Press. The cause of the leak won’t be known for weeks, Enbridge
Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Patrick D. Daniel  said on a
conference call. TransCanada Corp., owner of Canada’s largest
pipeline system, slipped 0.7 percent to C$36.26.  
 Teck declined 1.5 percent to C$35.38 after reporting that
efforts to protect fish from selenium, a potentially toxic
element present in coal, could lead to “material” costs and
delays in permits.  
 “This issue could weigh on the shares until the company
provides further clarity,” UBS AG analyst  Brian MacArthur  said
in a note to clients.  
 Missing Estimates  
 Husky Energy Inc., Canada’s third-biggest energy company,
slumped 3.8 percent, the most in nine months, to C$25.40 after
reporting  second-quarter profit  excluding certain items that
missed the average analyst estimate by 28 percent. The company
also reduced its 2010 production forecast.  
 Other oil producers fell as the U.S. Energy Department
reported the biggest weekly increase in  inventories  since
October 2008. Canadian Natural dropped 2.3 percent to C$36.
Suncor Energy Inc., the country’s largest oil and gas producer,
declined 1.3 percent to C$33.04.  
 Rogers, the country’s biggest wireless carrier, decreased
3.4 percent to C$35.59 after Royal Bank of Canada analyst
 Jonathan Allen  cut his rating on the company to “sector
perform” from “outperform.”  
 Price Pressure  
 New carriers and Rogers’ planned launch of an unlimited
talk and texting plan are likely to lead to more price pressure
in the Canadian wireless industry, Toronto-based Allen wrote in
a note to clients.  
 BCE Inc., the country’s biggest phone company, slipped 1.5
percent to C$31.46.  
 Research In Motion Ltd. climbed 4.4 percent to C$57.55
after tumbling 3.6 percent yesterday. Analysts at Morgan Keegan
& Co. and Avian Securities LLC said the BlackBerry maker may
unveil a smartphone with a slide-out keyboard on Aug. 3.  
 CGI Group Inc., Canada’s biggest computer-services
provider, added to its 4.7 percent loss from yesterday, when it
reported third-quarter revenue 3.7 percent below the average
analyst forecast. Royal Bank analyst  Mike Abramsky  lowered his
rating on the stock to “sector perform” after having rated
them “outperform” since January 2008. CGI slumped 3.8 percent
to C$14.87.  
 Westport Innovations Inc., a maker of biogas and natural
gas engines, plunged 11 percent, the most in 17 months, to
C$19.37 after U.S. Congressional leaders introduced energy
legislation. The bill directs less funding to natural gas-fueled
heavy trucks than Westport investors had hoped, National Bank of
Canada analyst  Rupert M. Merer  said in a telephone interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        