-- Esmerian, St. Vincent, Mesa Air, Petters, Chemtura, Madoff: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-07-27T13:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/esmerian-st-vincent-mesa-air-petters-chemtura-madoff-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             The examiner for newspaper publisher
 Tribune Co.  filed his heavily redacted report yesterday evening
and concluded it was “highly likely” that the completion of
the leveraged buyout in December 2007 made the parent company
“insolvent” and “reasonably likely” the subsidiaries were
rendered insolvent.  
 Kenneth N. Klee , the examiner, also concluded that the
solvency opinion given before completion of the leveraged buyout
was “implausible.” He said that the Tribune board and special
committee “failed appropriately to discharge their
responsibilities” in allowing the completion of the $13.8
billion buyout led by  Sam Zell .  
 Klee, a bankruptcy lawyer and law professor, was named to
be the examiner in late May. The bankruptcy judge charged him
with evaluating the strength of arguments about whether the 2007
leveraged buyout included fraudulent transfers that can be set
aside in bankruptcy. He also was to give his opinion about
remedies or damages creditors might be entitled to receive were
he to conclude there indeed were fraudulent transfers.  
 Klee gave his opinions yesterday on a scale of 1 to 7, from
“highly likely” to “highly unlikely.”  
 On the question of whether the December 2007 transaction
was a constructively fraudulent transfer, Klee found that the
companies didn’t receive “reasonably equivalent value” for the
debt incurred at the time. He said that the bank lenders were
acting in good faith at the time of the first part of the
transaction in May 2007 although not at the second step in
December.  
 Also on the question of a constructively fraudulent
transfer, Klee believes it is “highly likely” a court would
include the December transaction in evaluating capital adequacy
when planning the first transaction in May.  
 Klee sees it as “somewhat unlikely” that a judge would
collapse the May and Decembers transactions into one
transaction.  
 The report found that Tribune “did not act forthrightly”
in procuring the solvency opinion that was required before
completion of the buyout in December 2007. He said it was
“implausible” that accurate information was withheld from the
board “unintentionally.”  
 He said that “fiduciaries” charged with assisting
management “did not adequately discharge their duties.” He
noted that no third party adviser evaluated the reasonableness
of the solvency opinion.  
 The buyout fared better when Klee judged whether it was
another species of fraudulent transfer made with actual intent
to hinder or delay creditors. He concluded it was “reasonably
likely” the first step in the transaction in June was not made
to hinder or delay creditors. With regard to the second step in
December and its $3.6 billion in debt, he said it was “somewhat
likely” to be a fraudulent transfer with actual intent to
hinder creditors.  
 On the issue of whether directors and officers can be
liable, he said it was “somewhat likely” a court would find
them responsible for not carrying out their duties properly. He
believes it is “somewhat unlikely” that the lenders’ claims
would be “equitably subordinated.”  
 Klee concluded it was “reasonably likely” that Wilmington
Trust Co., as indenture trustee for some of the pre-LBO
creditors, didn’t violate the automatic stay by filing a lawsuit
in bankruptcy court objecting to the claims of some of the
lenders. On the other hand, Klee sees it as “reasonably
likely” that the lawyers for Wilmington Trust did violate a
confidentiality agreement by including information in a court
filing that should have been kept secret.  
 Klee filed most of his report under seal. While his
conclusion are filed publicly, the underlying facts supporting
his conclusions aren’t. The redactions in the publicly filed
version result from the insistence on confidentiality by people
and companies that supplied information to the examiner.  
 Tribune filed an emergency motion yesterday asking the
bankruptcy judge to give the parties in the case immediate
access to the entire report, while only the redacted version is
publicly available for the time being. Klee explained in a court
filing how he “strongly believes” the entire report should be
made public.  
 Tribune believes that keeping the report under seal will be
“highly disruptive,” given the confirmation hearing set for
Aug. 30 where the judge is to consider approving the
reorganization plan.  
 Unless the schedule is accelerated, the bankruptcy judge
will hold an Aug. 9 hearing on whether to unseal the report.  
 A transaction is a constructive fraudulent transfer if the
company making the transfer becomes insolvent and doesn’t
receive reasonably equivalent value in return for what is given
up.  
 Tribune’s Chapter 11 plan, if approved by the judge, would
resolve the fraudulent transfer claims through a settlement
opposed by some creditors. At the confirmation hearing, the
judge will address the merits of the claims. Klee didn’t give an
opinion on the merits of the settlement.  
 The plan, filed in April, is opposed by holders of $3.6
billion in pre-bankruptcy debt who announced their opposition
even before the settlement was formally disclosed. For details
on the plan, the proposed settlement, and the parties’
arguments, click here for the April 13 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  
 Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. It owns the Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times,
six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  
 The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Updates  
 Global Growth Files Terms of Plan and New Secured Loan  
 Capital Growth Systems Inc. , more commonly known as  Global
Capacity , sought Chapter 11 protection on July 23 and approval
of $10.25 million in secured financing.  
 The new loan will pay off the existing senior secured loan
of about $5.1 million owing to Pivotal Global Capacity LLC.
Another $3.2 million will be used for security deposits for
utility companies.  
 There will be a hearing today for interim approval of the
loan.  
 Terms of a proposed reorganization were spelled out in
documents attached to the loan agreement. The plan deals with
$52.1 million on several issues of secured subordinated
convertible debentures. The subordinated debenture holders along
with Downtown Capital are supplying the new loan.  
 When the Chapter 11 plan becomes effective, $3 million of
the new loan will be rolled over. The remainder of the loan and
the existing debentures will convert into the new equity.  
 General unsecured creditors are also to receive the new
equity, if law permits.  
 The loan agreement requires having approval to sell the
company to the debenture holders within 90 days. The plan itself
is supposed to be approved in a confirmation order within 125
days.  
 Global is a Chicago-based provider of systems to integrate
networks. Revenue in 2009 was $64.4 million. Revenue in the
first quarter of 2010 was of $14.7 million.  
 The case is In re Global Capacity Holdco LLC, 10-12302,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Leighton Creditors Want Suit against Ralph Esmerian  
 The creditors’ trustee for liquidated antique jewelry
retailer Fred Leighton LLC arranged a hearing on Aug. 26 to ask
permission from the bankruptcy judge to continue a lawsuit
against the company’s former owner, Ralph Esmerian, even though
Esmerian and his company are now themselves in Chapter 11.  
 Esmerian and his R. Esmerian Inc. were the target of
involuntary Chapter 7 petitions filed in May. Esmerian and the
company took advantage of a right given them in bankruptcy law
and switched the involuntary Chapter 7 cases to Chapter 11
reorganizations on June 23.  
 In view of the automatic halt on lawsuits resulting from
the new bankruptcy cases, the trustee for the creditors’ trust
from the Leighton case needs permission from the bankruptcy
court to continue three lawsuits previously brought against
Esmerian and the company that bears his name.  
 The three suits contend that Esmerian caused the Leighton
company to improperly transfer more than $66 million both before
and after the Leighton bankruptcy.  
 To fend off what likely would have been a push for a
trustee to take over the new cases, Esmerian and his company had
a motion on the court’s calendar last week for appointment of an
examiner with expanded powers who would “oversee financial
affairs generally” and be in charge of asset sales. The
bankruptcy judge is yet to decide if there should be an
examiner.  
 The creditors who filed the involuntary petition said they
were collectively owed $40 million.  
 Merrill Lynch Mortgage Capital Inc. precipitated the Fred
Leighton Chapter 11 in April 2008 by filing suit in state court
to hold a foreclosure auction. Eventually, Fred Leighton was
liquidated under a Chapter 11 plan proposed by Merrill. The
Leighton plan was confirmed in November.  
 The new cases are In re R. Esmerian Inc. and In re Ralph
Esmerian, 10-12719 and 10-12721, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 St. Vincent Has August Auction for Home Health Biz  
 St. Vincent Catholic Medical Centers, a shuttered 727-bed
acute-care hospital in Manhattan’s Greenwich Village, will hold
auctions on Aug. 10 and 11 for the certified home health-care
agency and the long-term health-care program. The hearing for
the approval of both sales is set for Aug. 19 under procedures
approved July 23 by the bankruptcy judge in New York.  
 For the home health-care agency, the first bid of $15
million will come from  North Shore University Hospital . For the
long-term health-care program,  Metropolitan Jewish Health Care
Inc.  will open the auction with an offer of $17.1 million.  
 For both, competing bids are initially due Aug. 5.  
 St. Vincent’s second trip into Chapter 11 is a liquidation.
The new petition in April listed assets of $348 million and debt
totaling $1.09 billion. The hospital ended the prior
reorganization in July 2007 with a Chapter 11 plan claimed at
the time to have a “a realistic chance” of paying all
creditors in full. The prior reorganization left the medical
center with more than $1 billion in debt. When the first
bankruptcy started in July 2005, St. Vincent had seven operating
hospitals. Five were sold.  
 The main facility has 941,000 square feet in 10 buildings.
The not-for-profit hospital is sponsored by the Catholic Diocese
of Brooklyn and the Sisters of Charity. It was founded in the
mid-19th century.  
 The new case is In re Saint Vincent Catholic Medical
Centers of New York, 10-11963, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The prior case was In re Saint
Vincent Catholic Medical Centers of New York, 05-14945, in the
same court.  
 Mesa Air Reports $13.7 Million June Operating Income  
 Regional airline  Mesa Air Group Inc.  reported $11.2 million
of income in June before taxes and reorganization items. Revenue
in the month was $74.4 million.  
 Operating income for the month was $13.7 million. The net
loss of $275.4 million resulted mostly from $449 million in
reorganization items resulting in large part from the
termination of aircraft leases.  
 Mesa ended June with $52.2 million in cash, down from $60.8
million from May.  
 Mesa filed under Chapter 11 in January with a fleet of 178
aircraft. At the time, 130 were operating to provide 700 daily
departures serving 127 cities in 41 states, Canada, and Mexico.
Since then, Mesa abandoned or rejected leases on 76 aircraft.  
 Phoenix-based Mesa listed assets of $976 million against
debt totaling $869 million. Liabilities include $393 million on
loans secured by 24 owned aircraft, $26 million on three note
issues, and $33.6 million secured by 20 other aircraft. In
addition, there is $1.62 billion in potential liability on
aircraft leases. Mesa operates regional aircraft under code-
sharing agreements with US Airways Group Inc., UAL Corp.’s
United Airlines, and Delta Air Lines Inc.  
 Mesa’s subsidiary in Hawaii, go! Mokulele, didn’t file.  
 The case is In re Mesa Air Group Inc., 10-10018, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Kaufman Rossin-Palm Beach Finance Settle on Petters  
 Kaufman Rossin & Co. , a Florida-based accounting firm,
agreed to pay almost $10 million in settlement of claims brought
by hedge funds that ended up in liquidation in the U.S. or
abroad as a consequence of the Ponzi scheme orchestrated by
 Thomas Petters .  
 The Kaufman firm was being sued by Palm Beach Finance
Partners LP and Palm Beach Finance II LP, two hedge funds that
invested in Petters’ companies. The Kaufman firm provided
auditing services for the hedge funds.  
 The two funds ended up in Chapter 11 bankruptcy in November
2009, following public disclosure of the Petters fraud in
September 2008. The two funds have about $143 million in claims
by limited partner investors and another $790 in claims by
unsecured creditors.  
 The two hedge funds filed a liquidating Chapter 11 plan
yesterday along with an explanatory disclosure statement.  
 The almost $10 million being paid by the Kaufman firm will
be split under a formula with offshore liquidations of
affiliates.  
 Convicted of operating a $3.5 billion fraud, Petters was
given a 50-year prison sentence.  
 The hedge funds’ Chapter 11 case is In re Palm Beach
Finance Partners LP, 09-36379, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District Florida (West Palm Beach).  
 Briefly Noted  
 Chemtura May Complete Sulfonates Sale To Sonneborn  
 Specialty-chemical maker  Chemtura Corp.  was given court
approval on July 23 to sell the remainder of the sodium
sulfonates and oxidized petrolatums businesses to Sonneborn Inc.
for $5 million plus adjustment. The bankruptcy judge approved
the sale without holding an auction to test if there was a
higher price.  
 Last week the judge said he would approve the disclosure
statement after changes are made. Supported by the creditors’
committee and an ad hoc bondholder group, the reorganization
plan would pay creditors in full while leaving the possibility
of saving some value for existing shareholders. The plan would
reduce debt for borrowed money from $1.3 billion to
approximately $750 million. For details, click here for the June
18 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The Chapter 11 petition in March 2009 by Middlebury,
Connecticut-based Chemtura listed assets of $3.06 billion
against debt totaling $2.6 billion, including $1.02 billion
owing on three issues of notes and debentures. Sales in 2008 of
$3.5 billion declined to $2.5 billion in 2009. The subsidiaries
outside of the U.S. didn’t file.  
 The case is Chemtura Corp., 09-11233, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Uno Chicago Grill Consummates Chapter 11 Reorganization Plan  
 Uno Restaurant Holdings Corp. , the operator of Uno Chicago
Grill casual-dining restaurants, implemented the reorganization
plan approved in a July 6 confirmation order. The plan gave
stock to noteholders while reducing debt from $176 million to
$40 million. For details on the plan, click here for the July 7
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Uno, based in West Roxbury, Massachusetts, listed assets of
$145 million against debt totaling $172 million.  
 The case is In re Uno Restaurant Holdings Corp., 10-10209,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Daily Podcast  
 Rangers, Almatis Plan, Tribune Secrecy, Siena Casino: Audio  
 Reporting by the Fort Worth newspaper on  Texas Rangers 
sale; the settlement and revised plan for Almatis BV; secrecy in
 Tribune Co.  and other bankruptcies, and a Nevada casino filing
in California are analyzed in the new bankruptcy podcast on the
Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  
 Advance Sheets  
 Fairfield Sentry, Madoff Feeder Fund, Approved in Chapter 15  
 Fairfield Sentry Ltd., which was the largest feeder fund
for Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities Inc., received
approval last week for the Chapter 15 petition filed in June.  
 Some investors in the fund objected to the Chapter 15
petition, saying the bankruptcy should be conducted in the U.S.,
not in the British Virgin Islands were the fund was
incorporated.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton R. Lifland  wrote a 10-page
opinion explaining why the fund was entitled to protection under
Chapter 15 on account of the liquidation being conducted in the
British Virgin Islands.  
 Lifland concluded that the nerve center for the fund was
offshore even though the fund had been managed in the U.S. by
Fairfield Greenwich Group. Lifland reached his conclusion
because the fund separated from the former manager months before
the commencement of the Chapter 15 case. The business operations
of the fund, according to Lifland, shifted to the British Virgin
Island when the liquidators were appointed.  
 Now that Lifland recognized the offshore bankruptcy as the
“foreign main proceeding,” all manner of creditor and investor
actions in the U.S. are halted. From the automatic stay, Lifland
excluded disputes with the Madoff trustee. Court papers say that
the Madoff trustee and the fund are near settlement.  
 The Chapter 15 case will enable Lifland to help the fund in
collecting assets in the U.S. Distribution of the assets will be
the responsibility of the High Court of Justice in the British
Virgin Islands.  
 The funds were created so non-U.S. citizens and certain tax
exempt entities could invest with Madoff.  
 The liquidators say the funds invested more than $7 billion
in the Madoff firm. The Madoff trustee has objected to allowance
of the firms’ claims in the U.S. liquidation. In May 2009 the
Madoff trustee sued Fairfield Greenwich for $3.54 billion,
aiming to take back $3.2 billion withdrawn within six years and
$1.2 billion taken out in 90 days before bankruptcy.  
 Bernard Madoff  is serving a 150-year prison sentence
following a guilty plea. The Madoff firm began liquidating in
December 2008 with the appointment of a trustee under the SIPA.
Bernard Madoff himself went into an involuntary Chapter 7
liquidation in April 2009. His bankruptcy case was consolidated
with the firm’s liquidation.  
 The Fairfield case is In re Fairfield Sentry Ltd., 10-
13164, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York
(Manhattan).  
 The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-cr-
00213, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Stub Rent Is Administrative Expense, Circuit Rules  
 The 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in St. Louis is the
latest federal circuit court to rule that so-called stub rent
must be paid in full as an expense of a Chapter 11 case. The
question has been dividing lower courts.  
 The issue arises when a company files for Chapter 11
reorganization before rent comes due and the rent covers periods
after bankruptcy. Some courts had ruled that the rent was
partially or wholly a pre-bankruptcy unsecured claim because the
rent came due before bankruptcy.  
 In the new case, the Bankruptcy Appellate Panel had
reversed the bankruptcy judge and ruled that the entire rent was
due. The bankruptcy judge had pro-rated the rent to cover the
period after bankruptcy.  
 The circuit court upheld the appellate panel on July 23.  
 The case in the 8th Circuit involved rent for crop land.
The company in Chapter 11 that rented the land argued that the
pertinent provision in the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, Section 365(d),
was intended to help shopping center landlords and shouldn’t be
applied to rental of farm land. The 8th Circuit disagreed.  
 The court found Section 365(d) to be unambiguous.  
 The case involved a lease of land for three years, with
rent paid in two installments. The second installment, for
$90,800, came due on Dec. 1. The company filed in Chapter 11 two
days before the rent was due. The lease was rejected the
following March.  
 The appeals court ruled that the entire installment was an
expense of the Chapter 11 case to be paid in full.  
 To read about the decision by the Bankruptcy Appellate
Panel in the case, click here for the June 9, 2009, Bloomberg
bankruptcy report. To read about a decision in June from the
U.S. Court of Appeals in Philadelphia that came down the same
way, click here for the June 8 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The opinion in the circuit court is Burival v. Creditor
Committee (In re Burival), 09-2483, 8th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals (St. Louis). The opinion by the Bankruptcy Appellate
Panel is Burival v. Creditor Committee (In re Burival), 08-6026,
Bankruptcy Appellate Panel for the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals (St. Louis).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        