-- Europe Stress Relieved With Swap Gap Vanishing: Credit Markets
-- Shannon D. Harrington
-- 2010-07-28T15:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/europe-stress-relieved-as-u-s-default-swap-gap-vanishing-credit-markets.html

          
          
             The bond market is saying that the
threat of a European banking crisis is ending.  
 The gap between European and U.S. benchmark credit-default
swap indexes, used to hedge against losses or speculate on
creditworthiness, narrowed to 0.7 basis point yesterday, the
lowest since June 4, prices from Markit Group Ltd. show. The
risk premium on European debt soared to a record 23 basis points
on May 7 on concern governments in the region would struggle to
cut spiraling budget deficits.  
 Bond investors are turning their attention to the
sustainability of the global economic recovery after European
banks and regulators provided a better view into balance sheets
of the region’s lenders and Spain sold 3.4 billion euros ($4.4
billion) of debt in an auction. Some of Europe’s biggest banks
rushed to sell bonds today after 84 of 91 lenders passed stress
test results on July 23.  
 “It takes one more worry off the map ahead,” said  Scott MacDonald , the head of credit and economic research at Aladdin
Capital Management LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, which oversees
about $12.5 billion. “This was something you could quantify and
you could qualify. It came, it went, and it was not as bad as
people thought it could be.”  
 Rabobank Nederland NV ,  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA 
and  Credit Suisse Group AG  came to the market with bond sales
today, people familiar with the deals said.  
 Before sovereign debt concerns flared in April, the
European swaps index hadn’t traded wider than its North American
counterpart, according to Markit Group data going back to at
least October 2005.  
 Snapping Rally  
 The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit swaps on 125
investment-grade companies rose 1.7 basis points to 105.3 as of
11:04 a.m. in New York, after falling for six straight days in
the longest rally this year, according to Markit Group. The
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index climbed 1.6
basis points to 104.1. The indexes typically fall as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Citigroup Inc. plan to sell $788.5 million of bonds backed by
commercial mortgages in the third deal to pool commercial
mortgages from multiple borrowers this year, according to a
person familiar with the offering.  
 The issue contains debt on 48 properties, said the person,
who declined to be identified because the terms aren’t public.
Before this sale, JPMorgan Chase & Co. was the most recent
issuer of such securities with a $716.3 million offering on June
11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 AT&T Bonds  
 AT&T Inc.  sold $2.25 billion of debt yesterday in its first
dollar-denominated offering in almost 18 months. The 2.5 percent
five-year notes from the largest U.S. phone company were priced
to yield 77 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a
spread of 300 basis points, or 3 percent, on the Dallas-based
company’s 4.85 percent, five-year debt sold in January 2009.  
 CIT Group Inc.  will meet with lenders this week to arrange
$3 billion of first-lien debt as Chief Executive Officer  John A. Thain  seeks to reduce costs on some loans by almost 50 percent.  
 CIT, the New York-based commercial lender that emerged from
bankruptcy in December, may pay 5 percentage points more than
the London interbank offered rate, with a 1.75 percent Libor
floor, on its loans, according to people familiar with the
matter. Bank of America Corp., Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan
Stanley will hold a meeting July 29 in New York to market the
five-year loan, said the people, who declined to be identified
because terms are private.  
 Morgan Stanley  
 Bonds from New York-based  Morgan Stanley , the sixth-largest
U.S. bank by assets, were the most-traded corporate securities
by dealers yesterday, with 191 trades of $1 million or more,
Bloomberg data show. Sydney-based Westpac Banking Corp. ranked
second with 133 trades. The most active in junk bonds was CIT,
with 86 trades. High-yield high-risk, or junk, debt is rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s.  
 Spreads on emerging-market bonds tightened 7 basis points
to 272 basis points, the lowest since May 3, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. index data, after ranging from as low as
229 on April 15 to as high as 359 on May 25.  
 Measures of European bank risk have been dropping since
June as investors speculated the stress tests would offer
clarity on lenders’ ability to survive another financial crisis
and as a committee of regulators rewriting capital rules eased
requirements that will force them to hold bigger cushions
against losses.  
 Stress Tests  
 The seven banks that failed the tests had a combined
capital shortfall of 3.5 billion euros, according to the
Committee of European Banking Supervisors, which coordinated the
initiative.  
 The risk  premium  on Spanish debt has declined since the
Bank of Spain published stress tests on the nation’s lenders,
showing a capital shortfall in the most extreme scenario of 1.8
billion euros. The government has already raised the funds that
the savings banks may need, Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said
on July 23. Three days earlier, Spain sold 6 billion euros of
treasury bills, the maximum target for the auction.  
 The difference between the cost of insuring European
corporate and financial debt is also shrinking, and the gap will
vanish as investor confidence in banks continues to improve,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. strategist  Alberto Gallo  said July 13.  
 Financial Index  
 The Markit iTraxx Financial index of swaps linked to the
senior debt of 25 European banks and insurers, which on June 8
soared to 61 basis points more than the broader iTraxx index of
125 companies, has fallen to within 8.5 basis points of the
corporate gauge, according to JPMorgan prices. The financial
index has plunged 86 basis points to 114 basis points since June
8, according to JPMorgan.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  
 Banks are taking advantage of the better sentiment toward
Europe’s financial industry to sell bonds before the summer
lull.  
 Rabobank  is adding 750 million euros to its existing 4.125
percent bonds due 2025, with the new notes priced to yield 90
basis points over swaps, according to two people with knowledge
of the sale.  
 BBVA Sale  
 BBVA , Spain’s second-biggest bank, is selling 1.25 billion
euros of five-year senior bonds that are priced to yield 170
basis points more than swaps, a person with knowledge of the
deal said. Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s No. 2 lender, is issuing
$1.5 billion of undated Tier 1 bonds in dollars that have a call
option in five years and a coupon of 7.875 percent, a person
familiar with the terms said.  
 Even as concern subsides about a sovereign crisis in
Europe, “there’s a plethora of issues that will be waiting for
everybody in September,” Aladdin’s MacDonald said, highlighting
the economy. “The signals are not definitive as to where you’re
going. They will leave room for ongoing doubt,” he said.  
 Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Mohamed El-Erian  said
“noisy” economic reports underscore the “unusually
uncertain” outlook cited by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . The key economic issue is the U.S. labor market, El-
Erian, Pimco’s chief executive and co-chief investment officer,
said yesterday in a Bloomberg radio interview.  
 “The indicators that we look at suggest that the economy
continues to lose momentum,” he said. “Ultimately, is the
economy creating enough jobs to make people comfortable, to
allow companies to invest?”  
 Losing Confidence  
 American consumers lost confidence in July, while home
prices rose more than forecast in May. Global growth may average
3.25 percent to 3.5 percent in the next three to five years,
below the 4.7 percent pace of the five years leading up to the
2008 slump, according to Morgan Stanley Asia’s  Stephen Roach .  
 “Focus has switched from the European situation to
economic data in the U.S. and globally,”  Jason Quinn , co-head
of high-grade and high-yield flow trading at Barclays Capital in
New York, said in an interview. “The information that came out
of the stress tests has helped to remove some of the uncertainty
that was hanging over the market.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     CIT Group Inc. CEO John Thain, speaks during a television interview in New York. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
