-- European Banks Gain Most Since May on Capital Rules
-- Julie Cruz
-- 2010-07-27T16:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/european-banks-gain-the-most-since-may-on-easing-of-proposed-capital-rules.html

          
          
             European banks led by  UBS AG  and
 Societe Generale SA  had their biggest gains since May as
regulators eased proposed rules on capital and two of the
region’s biggest lenders posted profit that beat estimates.  
 UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, surged 11 percent to 17.46
Swiss francs in Zurich trading, while Societe Generale, France’s
No. 2 lender, also gained 11 percent to 44.23 euros in Paris.  
 The Basel Committee, which represents central banks and
regulators in 27 nations and sets capital standards for banks
worldwide, buoyed investors’ confidence after saying lenders can
count deferred tax assets and minority stakes in financial firms
as capital. The committee’s new proposals came three days after
all but seven of Europe’s 91 biggest banks passed stress tests.  
 “We’ve gained more transparency with the stress tests,”
said  Raimund Saxinger , a Frankfurt-based fund manager at
Frankfurt Trust Investment GmbH, which oversees about $22
billion. “The good economic environment reduces risks and
writedowns for banks and could fuel hope that we will see a
pickup in investment-banking activity in the fall. Investors are
relieved that the Basel proposals have been a bit softened.”  
 The 54-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
 Index  rose 4.5 percent, the biggest gain since European leaders
crafted a 750 billion-euro ($973 billion) rescue package on May
10 in a bid to restore faith in the euro and prevent Greece’s
fiscal woes from unleashing a global crisis.  
 Profit Gains  
 UBS  today reported that second-quarter net income totalled
2.01 billion francs ($1.91 billion), after a net loss of 1.4
billion francs a year earlier. That beat the 1.12 billion-franc
median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s largest bank, said second-
quarter profit increased 6.4 percent to 1.16 billion euros as
gains in retail and transaction banking helped offset a decline
in sales and trading. That beat analysts’ estimate of 1.05
billion euros.  
 European governments aimed to use their first coordinated
stress tests to reassure investors about the health of financial
institutions after the debt crisis pummeled the bonds of Greece,
Spain and Portugal. Mounting budget deficits in those countries
raised concern that they won’t be able to pay their debts.  
 European Union stress tests found banks need to raise 3.5
billion euros of capital, about a 10th of the lowest analyst
estimate, leaving doubts whether regulators were tough enough.  
 The tests found that only Germany’s  Hypo Real Estate AG ,
Agricultural Bank of Greece SA and five Spanish savings banks
lacked adequate reserves to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of
at least 6 percent in the event of a recession and sovereign-
debt crisis, according to results published July 23.  
 The U.S. stress tests carried out last year were criticized
at the time for being too soft. Yet the evaluations on 19 banks
helped persuade investors that the financial system was sound,
contributing to a 36 percent rally in the Standard & Poor’s
Financials Index in the following seven months.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabio Benedetti-Valentini  in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        