-- Texas Appeals EPA's Ruling That Its Air-Pollution Permitting is Inadequate
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-07-27T01:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/texas-appeals-epa-s-ruling-that-its-air-pollution-permitting-is-inadequate.html

          
          
             Texas’s air pollution-permitting
laws meet federal emissions standards and shouldn’t be over-
ruled by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Texas
Attorney General  Greg Abbott  said in a court filing.  
 Abbott asked in a petition filed today that the U.S. Court
of Appeals in New Orleans overturn a July 15 EPA finding that
the state’s 16-year-old flexible permitting program was
inadequate for regulating industrial air pollution.  
 Environmental regulators said Texas’s air-pollution
permitting process violated the U.S. Clean Air Act by letting
plant owners obtain emissions permits covering entire facilities
instead of requiring individual permits for each processing
unit.  
 The EPA’s rejection of the state’s regulatory process
undermines a program that has achieved “a 22 percent reduction
in ozone and a 46 percent reduction in nitrous oxide, which
outpaces the 8 percent and 27 percent reductions that were
recorded nationally” since 2000, Abbott said in a statement.  
 “The net effect is greater regulatory efficiency, well-
controlled facilities, and significant reductions in air
emissions,” Abbott said in the court petition.  
 David Gray, an EPA spokesman, said the agency’s July 15
decision spurred Texas industries to begin meeting with air-
quality regulators.  
 “Since our disapproval, facilities have begun working with
EPA to obtain corrected permits,” Gray said in an e-mail. “We
are working with these permit holders to quickly transition
their flexible permits into an approved form.”  
 The case is State of Texas v. U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, 10-60614, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
(New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  


        