-- Mexico's Drug Cartel Violence Spreads to Central America, Threatens States
-- 
-- 2010-07-27T03:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/mexico-s-drug-cartel-violence-spreads-to-central-america-threatens-states.html

          
          
              
By Nick Miroff and William Booth
     July 27 (Washington Post) -- SAN SALVADOR -- Drug cartel
violence in Mexico is quickly spilling south into Central America
and is threatening to destabilize fragile countries already rife
with crime and corruption, according to the United Nations, U.S.
officials and regional law enforcement agents.
     The Northern Triangle of Central America -- Guatemala, El
Salvador and Honduras -- has long been a major smuggling corridor
for contraband heading to the United States. But as Mexican
President Felipe Calderón fights a U.S.-backed war against his
nation's drug lords, trafficking networks are burrowing deeper
into a region with the highest murder rates in the world.
     The Mexican cartels "are spreading their horizons to states
where they feel, quite frankly, more comfortable. These
governments in Central America face a very real challenge in
confronting these organizations," said David Gaddis, chief of
operations for the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration.
     U.S. attention has mostly focused on Mexico. But the
homicide rate there -- 14 for every 100,000 residents -- is
dwarfed by the murder statistics in the Northern Triangle, where
per-capita killings are four times higher and rising.
     In El Salvador, the region's most violent country, homicides
jumped 37 percent last year, to 71 murders per 100,000 residents,
as warring gangs vied for territory and trafficking routes.
Police and military officials in El Salvador said cartels are
increasingly paying local smugglers in product, rather than cash,
driving up cocaine use and the drug dealing and turf battles that
come with it.
     "The more pressure there is in Mexico, the more the drug
cartels will come to Central America looking for a safe haven,"
Gen. David Munguía Payés, El Salvador's defense minister, said in
an interview here.
     The amount of cocaine moving through the region has risen
sharply, although the overall volume entering the United States
is falling. Cocaine seizures in Central America nearly quadrupled
between 2004 and 2007, according to the most recent U.N. data.
     The United States has allocated $258 million in
anti-narcotics assistance for Central America since 2007 as part
of the three-year, $1.6 billion Merida Initiative. But a report
this month by the Government Accountability Office found that
only 9 percent of the money promised under the initiative has
been spent and that U.S. officials had no reliable way to
determine whether it was making a difference in the drug war.
     In remote, lawless regions of Guatemala, the Mexican
organized crime syndicate known as the Zetas is setting up
training camps and recruiting elite ex-soldiers to serve as
assassins, arming them with weapons diverted from the country's
military arsenals.
     Last month, four human heads were left near the Guatemalan
Congress and elsewhere in the capital. The national police
spokesman, Donald González, said the grisly display was the work
of the Zetas and other Mexican traffickers.
     "Guatemala has become a paradise for criminals, who have
little to fear from prosecutors owing to high levels of
impunity," the International Crisis Group, a conflict research
organization, said in a June report. "High-profile assassinations
and the government's inability to reduce murders have produced
paralyzing fear, a sense of helplessness and frustration."
     Over the past two years, Guatemala's top anti-narcotics
official, two national police chiefs and the former president
have been arrested on charges related to drug trafficking or
corruption. Two former interior ministers are fugitives. In May,
the Guatemalan president appointed, then removed after
international protests, an attorney general who U.N. prosecutors
say has ties to mobsters.
     In Honduras, where a military coup last year toppled the
president, Mexican cartels have established command-and-control
centers to orchestrate cocaine shipments by sea and air along the
still-wild Caribbean coast, often with the help of local
authorities, according to DEA and U.N. officials. Ten
anti-narcotics officers were caught smuggling 142 kilos of
cocaine last July. In December, Honduras's drug czar, Gen. Julián
Arístides González, was killed after trying to shut down
clandestine landing strips allegedly operated by Mexico's Sinaloa
cartel.
     Police in El Salvador say traffickers are cultivating ties
to street gangs such as MS-13 and 18th Street, building alliances
that could eventually help those groups mature into international
syndicates.
     "Organized crime has penetrated the government," said
Jeannette Aguilar, a crime expert at San Salvador's University of
Central America, citing recent arrests of police commanders and
prominent politicians. "We've made strides toward democracy, but
this threatens to reverse that progress."
     According to Steven S. Dudley, a consultant for the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars, the high homicide rates
signal the expanding presence of Mexican drug cartels.
Investigators are finding more corpses bearing marks of torture
or execution in well-coordinated hits by assassins armed with
high-caliber weapons, trademarks of Mexican crime gangs.
     The newspaper El Diario de Hoy in El Salvador recently
counted 35 bodies found in plastic bags over a six-month span.
     A U.N. report found that the highest homicide rates were not
in the largest cities, but in provinces with strategic value to
drug traffickers: along borders, coasts and jungles.
     Some victims had ties to the drug trade; others were simply
in the way. In Honduras, in the Caribbean province of Atlantida,
one of every 1,000 residents was murdered last year.
     Central American migrants, interviewed at three shelters as
they crossed Mexico on the way to the United States, said they
left their countries not only because of economic desperation but
also to escape soaring violence.
     The expansion of cartel power in the Northern Triangle
threatens to undermine democratic gains made since the end of
civil conflicts here in the mid-1990s. Analysts say the lucrative
profits of the drug trade wield powerful influence in these
countries, where half the people live in poverty.
     "The Guatemalan government is weak, and the drug cartels
provide services that the state does not," such as health
clinics, soccer fields and schools, said Fernando Giron Soto, a
researcher at the Myrna Mack Foundation, a human rights
organization in Guatemala City whose doors are guarded by armed
sentries. "It's the same thing that Pablo Escobar used to do in
Medellin" during the 1990s in Colombia, he said.
     In many areas of the Northern Triangle, police are
ineffective, if they exist at all, experts say. Guatemala and
Honduras have fewer than half as many police per capita as
Mexico, U.N. data show. In Guatemala, as many as seven of the
country's 22 provinces appear to be under the control of
criminals, according to the International Crisis Group report.
     The region is awash in weapons left over from the Cold War,
making it an important source of arms for the Mexican cartels.
Before Guatemalan gun laws changed last year, anyone could
legally buy up to 500 rounds of ammunition a day, said Sandino
Asturias, a crime analyst for the Center for Guatemalan Studies.
     A special U.N. prosecutor's office has been working in
Guatemala since 2007 to break the country's culture of impunity,
but it faces enormous obstacles. Of 6,548 murders last year, 423
suspects were arrested. However, that was a significant
improvement over the previous year, when 128 homicide arrests
were made, Asturias said.
     Booth reported from Mexico.
 
          
          


  


        