-- Lexmark Sales, Profit Beat Estimates on Services Rise
-- Arik Hesseldahl
-- 2010-07-27T20:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/lexmark-sales-profit-top-estimates-on-higher-sales-of-services-equipment.html

          
          
             Lexmark International Inc. , the
maker of laser and inkjet printers, rose the most in more than
five months after posting revenue and profit that beat analysts’
estimates on improving equipment and services sales.  
 Second-quarter profit excluding some items was $1.23, the
Lexington, Kentucky-based company said today in a statement.
That topped the 93-cent average of analysts’  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales rose to $1.03 billion, also exceeding
projections.  
 Lexmark said it had “double-digit”  growth  in sales of
hardware and supplies. It also won a five-year contract, worth
as much as $127 million, to supply the U.S. Social Security
Administration with printers and other supplies. The company has
sold more services agreements, which can be more profitable than
hardware, to companies including BB&T Corp. and Cummins Inc.  
 “The reason Lexmark is growing is our enterprise business
is growing,” Chief Executive Officer  Paul Curlander  said on a
conference call. The company is seeing strong demand in
industries that had weakened in recent years, including
financial services, retail and health care, he said.  
 Lexmark rose $2.95, or 8.5 percent, to $37.76 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading , the biggest gain
since Feb. 2.  
 “It appears to have been a solid quarter,” said  Shannon Cross , an analyst at Cross Research in Livingston, New Jersey,
who rates the stock a “sell.” “The question is how
sustainable it is.”  
 Profit Forecast  
 Profit excluding some costs will be 90 cents to $1.00 a
share  this quarter , Lexmark said. That compares with the 82-cent
average of analysts’ predictions.  
 Second-quarter  net income  increased to $85.1 million, or
$1.07 a share, from $17 million, or 22 cents, a year earlier,
the company said.  
 Revenue in the services and solutions division rose 20
percent to $752 million. Analysts had projected total sales of
$966.3 million in the period.  
 Sales of multifunction printers that cost $500 or more help
increase profit after they’re sold because customers who buy
them tend to print more pages over the machines’ lifetimes than
owners of cheaper devices, driving ink sales, Lexmark Chief
Financial Officer  John Gamble  said in an interview.  
 “We’re feeling really good about the way that business has
grown,” he said.  
 Gross margin , the percentage of sales left after production
costs, rose to 36.8 percent in the second quarter, compared with
31 percent a year earlier.  
 During the period, Lexmark completed its $280 million all-
cash  purchase  of Perceptive Software, a provider of enterprise
content management software.  
 Lexmark ended the quarter with $1 billion in  cash and
marketable securities . Curlander suggested more acquisitions
could be coming. “Our thinking hasn’t changed in looking around
the world for strategic opportunities,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
 Arik Hesseldahl  in New York at 
 ahesseldahl@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        