-- Fatal Washington Metro Crash Shows Need for U.S. Transit Rules, NTSB Says
-- Angela Greiling Keane
-- 2010-07-27T18:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/fatal-washington-metro-crash-shows-need-for-u-s-transit-rules-ntsb-says.html

          
          
             A breakdown of safety measures that
contributed to a deadly 2009 commuter-train crash in Washington
should lead to federal regulation of transit systems, the top
U.S. transportation safety investigator said.  
 The crash that killed eight Washington Metro riders and a
train operator will spur efforts to add federal oversight of
transit systems now regulated by only state and local
authorities,  National Transportation Safety Board  Chairman
 Deborah Hersman  said today at a hearing in Washington on the
incident’s causes.  
 “Now it’s really time for them to step up to the plate and
for Congress to address the issue,” she said. “We move more
people in transit than we do in the aviation system every day.”  
 The June 2009 accident, which injured 52 passengers,
occurred when a moving train plowed at full speed into one that
was stopped. A track circuit, part of an automated-train control
system, failed to detect the stopped train. Transportation
Secretary  Ray LaHood  called last year for Congress to authorize
U.S. regulators to set minimum safety standards for commuter
rail and bus transit.  
 “The state oversight system is not effective, they don’t
have any teeth,” Hersman said. The Transportation Department
rejected previous NTSB recommendations that it could assert
authority over transit systems without waiting for new
legislation, she said.  
 The department regulates safety on heavy rail systems, such
as Amtrak, and not on transit lines such as Washington’s Metro
and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s subways in New
York.  
 Car Crushed  
 About half of the first car in the moving train was crushed
in the Washington Metro crash. The car was among Metro’s oldest,
and the safety board has criticized the Washington  Metropolitan
Area Transit Authority , which runs the commuter trains, for
failing to act on past recommendations to retire or strengthen
cars dating back to the system’s creation in the 1970s.  
 The transit authority is now replacing those cars, saying
in a statement yesterday that retiring the 1000 Series fleet is
its “No. 1 safety priority.” Metro is buying 428 new cars from
 Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. , based in Kobe, Japan.  
 Robert Sumwalt , an NTSB member, said federal and state
regulators are among many parties that should share the blame
for the Washington accident.  
 ‘Organizational Accident’  
 “This accident is a classic example of an organizational
accident,” he said, also blaming Metro’s employees, managers
and board, and the designers and manufacturers of the train-
control system, which were  Alstom Signaling Inc.  and  Ansaldo STS
USA . “Quite simply, there were failures up and down the line.”  
 The accident investigation found “layers of safety
deficiencies” that “reveal a systemic breakdown of safety
management at all levels,” Hersman said.  
 Metro employees received about 8,000 false alarms each week
warning of track-circuit glitches, the NTSB found in its
investigation. The volume of alarms warning of circuits
incorrectly detecting the presence of trains or failing to
detect their locations was so high that they were ignored, said
NTSB member  Mark Rosekind .  
 “Just as we have worked proactively and cooperatively with
the NTSB to implement recommendations during the last year in
advance of the NTSB’s final findings, we stand ready to continue
to work with them to build on our progress to date,”  Richard Sarles , Metro’s interim general manager, said today in a
statement. He replaced  John Catoe , Metro’s general manager at
the time of the crash, who resigned earlier this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Washington D.C. Metro Crash  
                       
                         
                           Win McNamee/Getty Images 
                         
                         Rescue workers respond to the site of two Metrorail trains that collided during the evening rush hour on June 22, 2009 in Washington, DC. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Rescue workers respond to the site of two Metrorail trains that collided during the evening rush hour on June 22, 2009 in Washington, DC. Photographer: Win McNamee/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
