-- FedEx, UPS Signal Export-Led U.S. Growth Momentum
-- Mary Jane Credeur
-- 2010-07-27T11:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/fedex-joins-ups-to-signal-export-led-growth-in-u-s-economy-gains-momentum.html

          
          
             FedEx Corp. and United Parcel
Service Inc., two bellwethers of the U.S. economy, are signaling
durability of a global recovery powered by growth overseas
rather than demand at home.  
 Both freight companies raised profit forecasts in recent
days on the strength of cross-border shipments, especially from
Asia, reflecting confidence in trade flows even as the European
debt crisis threatens to weaken global demand.  
 While rising international deliveries suggest that a
“double-dip” recession is unlikely for the global economy,
they reinforce forecasts for export-driven growth amid a lengthy
period of unemployment around 9 percent in the U.S. The reliance
on foreign demand bolsters a theory espoused by Pacific
Investment Management Co. that the world’s largest economy is in
a “new normal” phase of slow growth.  
 “The international marketplace is what’s driving growth at
FedEx and UPS and any other big company that has international
exposure right now,” said  David Campbell , an analyst at
Thompson Davis & Co. in Richmond, Virginia. He recommends buying
shares of both FedEx and UPS.  
 FedEx, based in Memphis, and UPS are considered gauges of
economic strength or weakness because they move consumer goods
and business equipment from electronics to apparel and financial
documents.  
 The two companies also raised their earnings forecasts
earlier this year. The last time they previously raised earnings
forecasts in tandem, in July 2005 and September 2005, the U.S.
economy experienced sustained growth of 3 percent for the
following year.  
 Rising Shares  
 Shares  of FedEx rose 5.6 percent yesterday and are up 19
percent from a 2010 low reached June 30. UPS shares gained 1.9
percent and have risen 16 percent from their low of the year
reached in February.  
 FedEx forecast in a statement released yesterday that
earnings for the quarter ending in August will be in a range of
$1.05 to $1.25 a share, an increase from the previous outlook of
85 cents to $1.05. FedEx said volume for international priority
packages will jump more than 20 percent this quarter.  
 UPS increased its full-year forecast last week to as much
as $3.45 a share, from a previous maximum of $3.30, on improving
demand in Asia and Europe.  
 Unemployment has been slow to fall after reaching a 26-year
high of 10.1 percent in October. The economy lost more than 8
million jobs during the latest recession. So far in 2010,
companies have added 593,000 jobs.  
 Unemployment Rate  
 The jobless rate, which fell to 9.5 percent in June as the
labor force shrank, will average 9.6 percent this year,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists from July 1 to July 8.  
 Barton Biggs , the hedge-fund manager who sold half his
equity holdings at the start of this month, said yesterday that
he has reversed course and is building up stock investments
after concluding the risk of a new global downturn has receded.  
 “I’ve definitely changed my mind to the degree of risk out
there,” Biggs, managing partner of Traxis Partners LLC, said in
a radio interview with Tom Keene on Bloomberg Surveillance.
“Economic data around the world in the last 10 days to two
weeks has turned more positive. It has exceeded forecasts almost
without exception. The odds of the world slumping into a
significant slowdown has diminished.”  
 Global gross domestic product will grow in the second half
of the year at an annual rate of nearly 4 percent on a
purchasing power parity basis, said  Joseph Lupton , senior
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 Final Sales  
 “We’re not looking for a fundamental break in the recovery
in any way,” Lupton said. The global economy is in the midst of
“a natural downshift” as factories cycle from orders driven
primarily by inventory replenishment to business more reliant on
final sales.  
 Growth in Asia is being propelled largely by demand for
electronic components, fashion apparel and industrial parts from
countries including Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and India,
said Campbell of Thompson Davis.  
 “The inventory stocking that started a year ago is
continuing, but not at the levels we’ve historically seen,”
Campbell said. “Companies are keeping fewer parts on hand,
which means if they need a product or component, they have to
use airfreight and that’s what we’re seeing with FedEx and
UPS.”  
 Airfreight Capacity  
 FedEx and UPS are also benefiting from a reduction in
airfreight capacity over the last three years as carriers parked
planes and passenger airlines including  Delta Air Lines Inc., 
the world’s largest carrier, got rid of dedicated freighters.  
 There are about  2,800 freight planes  in service as of
April, 200 fewer than at the end of 2008, according to the
International Air Transport Association, a Geneva-based trade
group.  
 FedEx didn’t forecast volume for the U.S. in the current
quarter, other than saying that growth in the Express and Ground
units is “better-than-expected.”  
 Volumes for U.S. packages in the Express unit have risen no
more than 3.5 percent in each of the past four quarters, and
fell in each of the previous 12 quarters on economic weakness
and competition from UPS and  Deutsche Post AG’s  DHL Express
unit.  
 In typical economic cycles, UPS’s domestic volume typically
matches or exceeds U.S. GDP.  
 Package Volume  
 The Atlanta-based company said last week that U.S. package
volume rose 1.2 percent for the second quarter, the best result
in two-and-a-half years.  
 Domestic shipments will continue to grow roughly in line
with GDP for the rest of the year, UPS said, and it forecast
industrial production in the U.S. will outpace GDP.  
 “The business-to-business side is pretty good. The
consumer is another question. The more attached to consumers you
are, the more risk,”  Kurt Kuehn , chief financial officer of
UPS, said in an interview on July 22.  
 UPS posted a 20 percent jump in international shipments for
the second quarter, the best results for that unit in four
years, led by a 40 percent surge in export volumes from Asia.  
 “Growth in Asia has been red hot, fueled by the tech
sector and iPhones and handheld devices, and air freight is
going to benefit greatly from that,” said  Mark Vitner , an
economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte, North
Carolina. “This says more about the global economy and in
particular Asia than it does the U.S.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Dorning  in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Barton Biggs, managing partner at Traxis Partners LLC. Source: Morgan Stanley via Bloomberg News.  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
