-- Filmmaker Stone Apologizes for Remark on Holocaust, Jewish Media Influence
-- Anthony Palazzo
-- 2010-07-27T00:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/filmmaker-stone-apologizes-for-remark-on-holocaust-jewish-media-influence.html

          
          
             Filmmaker  Oliver Stone  apologized
for remarks about the Holocaust and Jewish media influence that
were criticized as being anti-Semitic.  
 “In trying to make a broader historical point about the
range of atrocities the Germans committed against many people, I
made a clumsy association about the Holocaust, for which I am
sorry and I regret,” Stone said today in a statement released
by his publicist, Rubenstein Communications.  
 The apology followed comments Stone made to the Sunday
Times of London. In an  interview  promoting a new documentary,
Stone also discussed a project in the works, “Secret History of
America.” He told the Times “Hitler was a Frankenstein, but
there was also a Dr. Frankenstein. German Industrialists, the
Americans and the British. He had a lot of support. Hitler did
far more damage to the Russians than the Jewish people.”  
 Stone also discussed in the article what he called “Jewish
domination of the media,” and said Israel “f***** up United
States foreign policy for years.”  
 The comments provoked a response from  David Harris ,
executive director of the  American Jewish Committee , an advocacy
group that promotes “societies that respect the dignity of all
peoples.”  
 ‘Toxic Stereotype’  
 “By invoking this grotesque, toxic stereotype, Oliver
Stone has outed himself as an anti-Semite,” Harris said in a
statement. “For all of Stone’s progressive pretensions, his
remark is no different from one of the drunken, Jew-hating rants
of his fellow Hollywood celebrity,  Mel Gibson .”  
 Stone, whose remake of “Wall Street” is scheduled for
release in two months by  News Corp. ’s Fox studio, was promoting
a documentary about South American politics called “South of
the Border,” which was shown in February at the Santa Barbara
International Film Festival.  
 The 10-hour “Oliver Stone’s Secret History of America” is
being produced by Stone’s Ixtlan Productions and is scheduled to
be distributed by CBS Corp.’s Showtime Networks.  
 Showtime hasn’t set a release date for the series, which is
still in production, the network said today in a statement. The
views expressed in the Times interview aren’t part of the
series, Showtime said.  
 Fox is scheduled to release “Wall Street: Money Never
Sleeps” on Sept. 24, according to the Internet Movie Database.
The film, a sequel to Stone’s 1987 hit, features  Michael Douglas 
in a reprise of his role as financier Gordon Gekko, along with
 Shia LaBeouf  and  Josh Brolin . It cost $70 million to make,
according to IMDB.com.  
 Fox, part of  Rupert Murdoch ’s media empire, plans no
changes in the movie’s release, said  Chris Petrikin , a spokesman
for the studio.  
 “Jews obviously do not control media or any other
industry,” Stone said in today’s statement. “The fact that the
Holocaust is still a very important, vivid and current matter
today is, in fact, a great credit to the very hard work of a
broad coalition of people committed to the remembrance of this
atrocity -- and it was an atrocity.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        