-- Financial Overhaul May Threaten ICE Trust's Lead in Credit Swaps, UBS Says
-- Matthew Leising
-- 2010-07-27T20:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/financial-overhaul-may-threaten-ice-trust-s-lead-in-credit-swaps-ubs-says.html

          
          
             A new rule specifying how Wall
Street dealers must send private derivatives trades to
clearinghouses may threaten  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. ’s
leading position in guaranteeing credit-default swaps, according
to UBS AG.  
 The financial overhaul signed into law July 21 by President
 Barack Obama  requires dealers like Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to send swaps that are to be cleared
through the business unit that handle futures trades.
Intercontinental’s  ICE Trust  clearinghouse, the world’s largest
for credit swaps, set up a different system, potentially causing
a setback for the Atlanta-based company, UBS said.  
 “Delays and uncertainty around a transition could result
in the company losing some of its front-runner position on CDS
and open the door for competitors,” UBS analyst  Alex Kramm 
wrote in a note to clients yesterday. “We still believe ICE is
positioned to see meaningful upside from buy-side clearing of
CDS, but we believe uncertainties will have to be addressed in
the very near term.”  
 ICE Trust’s competitor  CME Group Inc. , the world’s largest
futures exchange, could gain market share for its “struggling”
plan to clear credit-default swaps, Kramm said. Unlike at ICE
Trust, CME set up its credit-swap clearing to accept trades from
divisions within banks known as futures commission merchants, or
FCMs. This mirrors the requirements of the new law.  
 Intercontinental Exchange spokeswoman  Kelly Loeffler  and
CME Group spokesman  Michael Shore  declined to comment.  
 CME ‘Certainty’  
 “CME chose the FCM route for its CDS clearing model and we
believe most dealers are ready to clear on the platform today,”
Kramm said. Hedge funds and asset managers “could favor the
certainty of CME’s model.”  
 New York-based ICE Trust had cleared more than $6.2
trillion in credit-default swaps as of July 2, according to the
company. Its European clearinghouse had cleared another $3.8
trillion. CME Group’s credit swap clearing plan has cleared $195
million of the contracts since beginning its service in
December.  
 Intercontinental Exchange shares fell 80 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $107.20 as of 4:02 p.m. in composite trading on the
New York Stock Exchange. CME Group rose 19 cents, or 0.07
percent, to $283.86 in Nasdaq trading.  
 The push to overhaul the market structure of  over-the-
counter derivatives  such as credit-default swaps follows the
collapse of the housing bubble that caused the financial crisis
and credit markets to seize up, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
bankruptcy and more than 8 million U.S. job losses.  
 Private swaps complicated efforts to solve the crisis when
regulators couldn’t easily determine how interconnected banks
had become through trading the contracts.  
 Clearinghouses , which are capitalized by their members,
increase stability in over-the-counter derivatives markets
because they lessen the effect of a default by sharing the risk
among the membership. They also use daily margining procedures
to keep accounts current and allow regulators to see market
positions and prices.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        