-- First Philippines Sukuk Planned by Al-Amanah: Islamic Finance
-- Khalid Qayum
-- 2010-07-27T03:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/first-philippine-sukuk-to-fund-growth-in-muslim-mindanao-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             The Philippines’ state-owned  Al-
Amanah Islamic Bank  may sell the nation’s first Shariah-
compliant bonds to finance development in  Muslim Mindanao , the
poorest region and base of Abu Sayyaf separatist militants.  
 “There’s a lot of money in the market for sukuk that we
can tap,” Al-Amanah President  Armando Samia , whose bank is the
only one in the Philippines with a mandate to sell Islamic notes,
said in an interview yesterday. “We’re still in the very
exploratory stage. Getting the first one out is difficult.”  
 A lack of regulations governing issuance makes it difficult
to sell securities in the Philippines that comply with the
religion’s laws banning payment of interest, according to Samia.
The  Autonomous Region of Muslim Mindanao  had per capita gross
domestic product that’s about 23 percent of the national average.  
 BNP Paribas Investment Partners, which manages the
equivalent of $700 billion globally, said investors will be
interested in the bonds. Global sales of debt that conform to
Shariah law fell 29 percent to $6.65 billion this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “There is a need for wider geographical diversification in
the sukuk market,”  Rafael Martinez Dalmau , director of Islamic
investment at BNP Paribas Investment, the asset management unit
of Paris-based BNP Paribas SA, said yesterday in an interview in
Singapore. “An issue coming from a new country is always
welcome.”  
 Spreads Narrow  
 The state-run Islamic Bank of Thailand plans to sell sukuk
to expand financial services for minority Muslims, while Tokyo-
based Nomura Holdings Inc. is raising $100 million in its first
sale in Malaysia as it develops a Shariah-compliant business.
Muslims in the Philippines account for about 10 percent of the
country’s 100 million population, Al-Amanah’s Samia said.  
 The average spread on notes sold from Indonesia to Saudi
Arabia narrowed five basis points yesterday to 416 percentage
points, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index. 
The difference shrank 27 basis points in July, the biggest
monthly decline since March, as Dubai World, the state-
controlled investment company, moved ahead with a debt
restructuring.  
 The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June
2015 fell four basis points to 3.08 percent today, according to
prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The yield over
similar-maturity U.S. Treasury debt narrowed to 141 basis points
from 180 basis points when the bonds were sold on May 27.  
 Sovereign Sukuk  
 Samia said investment banks have offered services to help
sell the securities, declining to give details on the possible
size or structure. The Philippines is rated BB- by Standard &
Poor’s and Ba3 by Moody’s Investors Service, the ratings
companies’ third-lowest non-investment grades.  
 “Sovereign sukuk are more attractive compared to
corporates because these have attractive yields and lower
perceived default risk,”  Ahmed Talhaoui , head of portfolio
management at Royal Capital PJSC, which is 44 percent-owned by
United Gulf Bank BSC, an investment bank in Bahrain, said in an
interview yesterday. “The Philippines is trading at a spread,
which is a bit tight compared with other countries.”  
 The average spread on Philippine dollar bonds has shrunk to
196 basis points, or 1.96 percentage points, above similar-
maturity Treasuries, from 291 a year ago, according to
 JPMorgan’s EMBI Index . The gap was the lowest since May 3. The
overall average spread on the EMBI+ index is 281 basis points.  
 Per Capita GDP  
 Al-Amanah has $21 million of Islamic banking  assets ,
compared with $93 billion in Malaysia, where Muslims make up the
majority of the 26 million population.  
 Eight of Al-Amanah’s nine branches are based on the
southern island of Mindanao, which has a per capita GDP of 3,572
pesos ($78), the lowest among the 17 regions in the Philippines
and compared with the national average of 15,686 pesos,
according to the website of the government’s  National
Statistical Coordination Board .  
 Mindanao is a base of the Abu Sayyaf, which is linked to
al-Qaeda, and some members of the communist New People’s Army,
according to a U.S. government watch list for international
terror organizations.  
 Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor  Amando Tetangco  said
the Philippines is drafting a bill to facilitate the expansion
of the Islamic finance industry as the government diversifies
funding sources.  
 “There is currently no regulatory framework for Islamic
banking,” Tetangco said in a text message response to questions
yesterday. “What we have is the charter of Al-Amanah Bank.”  
 President Benigno Aquino, who took office on June 30,
estimates the 2010 budget  deficit  will widen to 325 billion
pesos, compared a record high of 298.5 billion pesos last year.  
 “The Philippines is a country that is definitely on our
radar screen,” BNP Paribas’ Dalmau said. “Investors are going
to put extraordinary efforts into understanding the structure,
ratings and pricing” of the sukuk, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clarissa Batino  in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        