-- Fonciere Des Regions Reports Profit as French Real Estate Values Increase
-- Simon Packard
-- 2010-07-27T06:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/fonciere-des-regions-reports-profit-as-french-real-estate-values-increase.html

          
          
             Fonciere des Regions SA , the French
office landlord with stakes in five other real estate investment
trusts, reported a first-half profit after the value of its
properties gained.  
 Net income  totaled 100.7 million euros ($131 million),
compared with a loss of 325.6 million euros a year earlier, the
Metz-based company today said in a statement.  
 The value of properties owned by FDR, mostly offices in
France and Italy, increased by 1.7 percent to 8.6 billion euros
in the period. The company raised 331.2 million euros  selling
buildings  to cut debt to 53.4 percent of the value of its real
estate. It forecast a further decline to 50 percent in the
coming months.  
 Profit excluding changes in the value of properties and
interest-rate derivatives rose 1.1 percent to 153.4 million
euros, as the company lifted rental income for the buildings it
owned throughout the period.  
 FDR reiterated a forecast that “recurring profit” will
rise this year, without being more specific.  
 Net asset value  fell 7.6 percent to 73.2 euros a share as
the company paid dividends in shares, allowing it to keep cash
to reduce debt and pay for its pipeline of development projects.  
 FDR  declined 3.7 percent in the past three months in Paris
trading, compared with a 3.1 percent gain for the French REITs
index compiled by Amsterdam-based Global Property Research. That
gives the company a market value of 3.9 billion euros.  
 FDR controls real estate in France, Italy and Germany
through its holdings in other real estate investment trusts.  
 The company’s assets include  Beni Stabili ;  Fonciere des
Murs SA , a REIT specialized in sale and leasebacks; warehouse
owner  Fonciere Europe Logistique SCA ; and  Fonciere Developpement
Logements SA , a residential investment trust. FDR also has a 15
percent holding in  Altarea SA , France’s biggest retail-park
developer, and controls parking lot owner Parcs GFR.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        