-- Former Morgan Crucible Chief Norris Found Guilty of Conspiracy in U.S.
-- Phil Milford
-- 2010-07-27T22:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/former-morgan-crucible-chief-norris-found-guilty-of-conspiracy-in-u-s-.html

          
          
                  July 27 (Bloomberg) --  Morgan Crucible Co. ’s former chief
executive officer,  Ian Norris , was found guilty in the U.S. of
conspiring to obstruct justice in connection with a scheme to
fix prices for carbon and graphite products.  
 A federal jury in Philadelphia today acquitted Norris, 67,
of trying to influence others’ grand jury testimony and of
intent to induce the destruction of records. Jurors previously
had declared at an impasse during about 18 hours of
deliberations.  
 Norris was extradited from the U.K. this year, the first
foreign defendant sent to the U.S. to face charges arising from
a criminal antitrust investigation,  Justice Department  officials
said in March. He was accused of ordering subordinates to
destroy files describing secret talks among European makers of
carbon and graphite products about fixing prices in a cartel
lasting more than a decade.  
 Norris was part of a “long-term scheme” to stifle an
investigation of the cartel, federal prosecutor  Lucy McClain 
told jurors during the trial that began July 12. Defense lawyer
 Christopher Curran  claimed that Norris didn’t thwart the probe
and never illegally ordered document-shredding.  
 Norris will be sentenced on Nov. 2. The conspiracy count
carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000
fine, according to the Justice Department.  
 ‘Law-Abiding Conduct’  
 “Today’s verdict holds Norris accountable for his actions
and sends a message that corporate leaders must promote a
culture of law-abiding conduct within their companies,”
 Christine Varney , assistant attorney general in charge of the
department’s Antitrust Division, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Morgan Crucible , founded in 1856 and based in Windsor,
England, makes body armor, carbon items, ceramics, bearings and
other products for the medical, automotive, aerospace and
telecommunications industries. The company reported  sales  last
year of 942.6 million pounds ($1.47 billion).  
 Norris retired from  Morgan Crucible  in 2002 after battling
prostate cancer and was indicted the following year. The cartel,
which began in Europe, spread to the U.S. in 1989 and continued
until 2000, according to a U.S. indictment.  
 U.K. authorities refused to allow Norris to be extradited
on price-fixing charges because such activities weren’t a crime
in Britain at the time. U.S. prosecutors then pressed conspiracy
and obstruction counts and a London-based court backed the
extradition in February.  
 Fines Paid  
 The cartel, which included companies such as Germany’s  SGL
Carbon AG , France’s  Carbone Lorraine SA a nd Austria’s Hoffmann &
Co., at one time controlled about 93 percent of the European
market for carbon products used in manufacturing and
steelmaking. The companies paid hundreds of millions of dollars
in fines and lawsuit settlements to resolve claims by government
regulators and customers.  
 The former top executives of both SGL and UCAR
International Inc. pleaded guilty to federal conspiracy charges
tied to price fixing.  Robert Koehler , SGL’s chairman, was fined
$10 million while UCAR Chairman  Robert Krass  was sentenced to a
17-month prison term.  
 Morgan Crucible  fell 5.2 pence, or 2.3 percent, to 219.3
pence in London trading. The shares have more than doubled in
the past year.  
 The case is U.S. v. Ian Norris, 03-CR-632, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia.)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Yasiejko  in Philadelphia at  yasiejko@gmail.com .  
          
          


  


        