-- Former Northern Rock CFO Jones Is Fined $494,000, Banned by U.K. Regulator
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-07-27T11:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/former-northern-rock-cfo-jones-is-fined-494-000-banned-by-u-k-regulator.html

          
          
             Former  Northern Rock Plc  Chief
Financial Officer  David Jones  became the third executive of the
bank banned from working in the industry in the wake of the
mortgage lender’s near collapse during the credit crisis.  
 Jones was fined 320,000 pounds ($494,000) for allowing
false mortgage data to appear in the bank’s 2006 accounts, the
Financial Services Authority said today in a  statement . The
correct figures would have increased the number of late payments
by customers by more than 50 percent or quadrupled the amount of
repossessions, according to the regulator.  
 Former Northern Rock deputy Chief Executive Officer  David Baker  and former managing credit director Richard Barclay were
banned and fined by the FSA on April 13 for hiding the number of
impaired mortgages from the bank’s board and the wider market.
Northern Rock was the first British casualty of the U.S.
subprime market’s collapse and was taken over by the British
government in February 2008.  
 “Even though other senior directors within the firm were
involved in the misreporting of arrears and possessions figures,
as a senior director himself and as an FSA authorized person,
Jones had a duty to reveal the true position to the public and
to important internal committees,” FSA Enforcement Director
 Margaret Cole  said. “He had numerous opportunities to put
things right, but failed to do so.”  
 ‘Unfair’ Penalty  
 Jones, who received a 20 percent discount on his fine for
cooperating with the regulator, said in a statement today that
the FSA failed to take into account that shareholders had
received sufficient information. He left the bank in April.  
 “I accept that I did not ensure that information on
residential arrears prepared and presented by others was
corrected to include certain accounts known as ‘pending
possession cases,’” Jones said in a statement. “However, I
consider that the FSA’s conclusions and imposed penalty are both
unfair and disproportionate.”  
 He said he will pursue jobs “building on over 30 years’
experience in finance.”  
 The FSA, facing dissolution in 2012 as the U.K. government
overhauls financial regulation, has said it is investigating
banks that required taxpayer bailouts during the financial
crisis. It banned the former head of  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc ’s investment bank,  Johnny Cameron , in May, and has
interviewed  Fred Goodwin , the former RBS CEO.  
 The FSA defines loans as being impaired when they are
either more than three months in arrears, or when properties
have been repossessed.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        