-- France to Seek Bids for Offshore Wind-Power Farms by the End of This Year
-- Tara Patel
-- 2010-07-27T15:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/france-to-seek-bids-for-offshore-wind-power-farms-by-the-end-of-this-year.html

          
          
             France will seek bids for offshore
wind farms by the end of the year to raise renewable energy
production and catch up with its neighbors in building sea-based
turbines, a government official said.  
 France will designate 5 to 10 offshore areas that have been
evaluated for their “environmental compatibility,”  Pierre -
Franck Chevet, an official at the Environment and Energy
Ministry, said in Paris yesterday.  
 The country, which doesn’t have any offshore wind parks, is
seeking to emulate neighbors such as the U.K. in sea-based wind
energy, considered more reliable and less intrusive on local
communities than onshore turbines.  GDF Suez SA , owner of the
French natural-gas network, is planning a 1.8 billion-euro ($2.3
billion) windpark offshore northern France, which is being
publically assessed for its environmental impact.  
 The tender process will evaluate the engineering costs of
each project to set the price at which power from the turbines
can be sold to French utilities, Chevet said.  
 Marion Lettry, deputy head of the Syndicat des Energies
Renouvelables, a renewable energy industry group, said yesterday
that the current government-determined price of 130 euros a
megawatt-hour for offshore wind energy “is not sufficient” for
developing such farms.  
 Feed-In Tariff  
 This so-called feed-in tariff at which Electricite de
France SA has to buy renewable energy appears “to be
insufficient” to boost deployment of offshore wind, the
International Energy Agency said yesterday in a report on French
energy policy. The Paris-based adviser said “more complex and
lengthy” administrative procedures for offshore wind may also
hinder the country’s ability to reach a target of getting a
quarter of renewable energy from wind in 2020.  
 The government is targeting 6,000 megawatts of offshore
wind power by 2020.  
 Compagnie du Vent, the GDF Suez unit vying to develop the
705-megawatt wind-farm project about 14 kilometers (9 miles)
offshore Le Treport in northern France, selected the site as the
most favorable in the country for developing the energy,
according to documents put on the website of the  public inquiry 
into the project.  
 ‘Deux Cotes’  
 Compagnie du Vent, in which GDF Suez bought a majority
stake in 2007, first proposed the project, which could provide
enough power to meet the annual needs of 900,000 people, five
years ago. It was rejected by local authorities at the end of
2006 and reapplied for a permit the next year, according to a
company document.  
 The “Deux Cotes” project site was selected because it has
dominant and sufficiently strong southern and southwestern winds
and onshore grid connection at the Penly nuclear station about
30 kilometers away, it said.  
 Other French sites also considered favorable are further
west near Le Havre, offshore Saint Nazaire along the Atlantic
coast and one near Utah beach in Normandy, from which allied
troops invaded occupied France during the Second World War,
according to the documents.  
 Local homeowners, fisheries and environmental groups have
criticized the project, according to the website of the public
inquiry, which runs through Sept. 10.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        