-- German Consumer Confidence to Rise After World Cup, Unemployment Declines
-- Simon Berberich
-- 2010-07-27T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/german-consumer-confidence-to-rise-after-world-cup-unemployment-declines.html

          
          
             German consumer confidence will rise
in August after economic growth accelerated, unemployment
dropped and the country placed well in the soccer World Cup, GfK
AG said.  
 GfK’s  consumer sentiment index , based on a survey of 2,000
people, will climb to 3.9 from a revised 3.6 in July, the
Nuremberg-based market research company said in a statement
today. Economists expected the index to remain unchanged at this
month’s initial reading of 3.5 points, the median of 25
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  shows.  
 German business confidence unexpectedly surged to a three-
year high this month and growth in the service and manufacturing
industries accelerated, suggesting the recovery in Europe’s
largest economy is gathering pace. Warm summer weather and
Germany’s third placing in the World Cup soccer tournament have
also lifted consumers’ spirits, GfK said.  
 “The good performance of the German team as well as the
sunny weather have put people in a good mood,” GfK said.
“Combined with unexpectedly positive news from the labor
market, consumers not only expect the recovery of the German
economy to continue, they expect it to gain further momentum.”  
 Unemployment  fell for a 12th straight month in June as
companies ramped up production to meet booming export orders.  
 Gfk’s measure of economic expectations jumped to 36.8 in
July, the highest since October 2007, from 5.5 in June. A gauge
of income expectations surged to 29.1 from 8.2, while an index
of consumers’ willingness to spend eased to 27.9 from 30.4,
which GfK said is still well above its long-term average.  
 German clothes retailer Hugo Boss AG enjoyed “clearly
better” business in the second quarter and continues to expect
growth in sales this year, Boersen-Zeitung reported on July 23,
citing Chief Financial Officer  Mark Langer .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Berberich  in Frankfurt 
 sberberich@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        