-- German Jobs `Miracle' Comes at a Price for Recovering Economy
-- Jana Randow
-- 2010-07-27T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/germany-s-labor-market-miracle-comes-at-a-price-for-recovering-economy.html

          
          
             Germany’s “short-work” policy
showed the world how to survive a recession without losing  jobs .
Now it’s time to pay the price.  
 The country’s social welfare-driven economic model, which
the International Monetary Fund  says  is helping to preserve
labor-market rigidity, has sheltered it from the worst of the
financial crisis. The cost is that as the economy recovers,
hiring won’t pick up as much as it does in countries such as the
U.S. or the U.K., posing a risk to growth in a nation that needs
to ignite household spending.  
 “The government has done a great job keeping unemployment
in check during the recession, there’s no doubt its policies
have been a tremendous success,” said  Klaus Baader , co-chief
European economist at Societe Generale SA in London. “The
problem is the labor market, and by extension consumer spending,
won’t get the boost it would have during the economic
recovery.”  
 While the worst recession since World War II pushed
 unemployment  in the U.S. to 10.1 percent, a 27-year high, in
Germany the  comparable rate  fell to 7 percent, a 17-year low.
Rather than firing workers as the economy contracted 5 percent
last year, companies from  Siemens AG  to  Volkswagen AG  were
subsidized by the German government to keep them on reduced
working hours, saving almost half a million jobs. Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  last week labeled developments on the labor market
a “minor miracle.”  
 Kurzarbeit  
 Under the so-called short-work plan, or Kurzarbeit in
German, companies can temporarily move employees onto shorter
working weeks to reduce costs during periods of weak demand.
They pay only for the hours worked and the government provides
up to 67 percent of the remaining wage.  
 The program supported up to 1.5 million employees at some
63,000 companies and saved as many as 478,251 jobs last year,
according to the Federal Labor Agency. In March this year, the
latest month for which data are available, some 693,000 people
worked fewer hours. The government extended the payment of
short-work benefits to a maximum of two years in May 2009.
Before the crisis, it was limited to six months.  
 The idea dates back to 1910, when the government
compensated workers who were put on shorter hours in the potash
and fertilizer industry during an earnings slump. In 1924, when
unemployment climbed to 11 percent, the government introduced
nationwide short-work policies similar to those used today. A
quarter of the German workforce was enrolled in the program at
the time.  
 Work-Time Accounts  
 Another tool that has played a central role in containing
unemployment is the so-called work-time account used by about
half of all German firms. This allows them to reduce employees’
working weeks during downturns. The hours saved accrue in an
account and can then be used during booms without adjusting
wages.  
 “Companies have replaced rigidly agreed working hours
with flexible labor schemes that allow them to breathe with the
economy,” said  Joerg Kraemer , chief economist at Commerzbank AG
in Frankfurt. “Germany’s labor market is less inflexible than
commonly thought.”  
 At  Trumpf GmbH & Co. KG , a German maker of machine tools,
electronics and lasers, each employee works up to 250 hours more
than contractually agreed when business soars and up to 250
hours less when demand is low. When orders collapsed in November
2008, the Ditzingen-based manufacturer exhausted its 500-hour
buffer before switching about 3,200 of its 4,500 workers in
Germany onto the government’s short-work program.  
 ‘Preserve Knowledge’  
 “It was our top priority to keep our core workforce and
preserve knowledge and experience for the next upswing,” said
Trumpf Executive Vice President Gerhard Ruebling. “We had
layoffs in foreign markets with less flexibility, such as Spain,
Japan, Poland and partly also in the U.S.”  
 The downside is that firms won’t need to hire for some
time. Labor agency chief  Frank-Juergen Weise  said companies cut
working hours by an average of 30 percent; capacity they can now
utilize before having to hire again.  
 “We won’t see a mass of new hires as in previous
upswings,” he said, adding the labor agency estimates
employment will rise next year by just “30,000 to 50,000
jobs.”  
 The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
predicts Germany will experience a “jobless recovery,” with
its unemployment rate rising to 8 percent next year as the
U.S.’s declines to 8.9 percent.  
 Achilles Heel  
 “ Gross domestic product  in Germany can expand by more than
7 percent without any increase in employment, if hours worked
per employee and hourly productivity were to rise back to their
pre-crisis levels,” OECD economists said in a report on July 7.
“Achieving GDP growth on this scale is expected to take several
years, and thus it is unlikely that the steady decline in the
unemployment rate during recent months will continue through the
second half of 2010.”  
 That’s a challenge for Germany, whose economic Achilles
Heel has long been the reticence of its consumers to spend. Even
as  exports boom , the Bundesbank forecasts GDP will rise 1.9
percent this year and 1.4 percent next.  
 “Short-time labor certainly helps to shoulder a temporary
loss of work in times of crisis,” said  Andreas Rees , chief
German economist at UniCredit MIB in Munich. “But it’s not a
panacea against structural problems. There’s no job-market
miracle.”  
 Weise said the short-work policy appears to have “paid
off” in broad economic terms. The labor agency spent 4.6
billion euros ($6 billion) on the program last year, or 13,675
euros for every full-time job preserved. That’s roughly
comparable with the money the government saves on unemployment
benefits and the costs companies would incur if they had to hire
new workers in the upturn, he said.  
 “That’s assuming that short-work results in retained
employment and workers aren’t fired when the policy comes to an
end,” he said. “If a significant number of people on short-
work are subsequently made redundant, then one would have to say
the policy had been very expensive.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor, speaks during a news conference in Beijing. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
