-- Gillard's Lead Slips as Voters in Australia Back Abbott on Economy Issues
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-07-27T02:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/gillard-s-poll-lead-slips-as-australian-voters-support-abbott-on-economy.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister Julia
Gillard’s poll lead slipped before next month’s election as
voters judged that opposition leader  Tony Abbott  is better able
to handle the economy, interest rates and the nation’s budget.  
 Voters favored Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition on the
economy 47 percent to 35 percent over the incumbent Labor
government, according to a Newspoll July 23-25 survey published
in the Australian newspaper today. The poll had a margin of
error of 3 percentage points.  
 The Reserve Bank of Australia meets next week to decide
whether to resume the most  aggressive round  of interest-rate
increases by a Group of 20 nation, raising borrowing costs for
home buyers and companies as both parties compete for economic
credibility. An inflation report tomorrow will provide another
signal to voters and the central bank.  
 “People are worried about their own budgets,” political
scientist  Rick Kuhn  at Canberra-based Australian National
University said by phone today. “Even if they’re not scraping
to hold things together, they are worried they’ll have to.”  
 Labor’s overall lead ahead of the Aug. 21 election narrowed
to four points, according to a separate Newspoll published
yesterday. A week earlier Gillard’s party held a 10-point lead
over the opposition and led on economic management 42 percent to
41 percent.  
 Stimulus Versus Surplus  
 Gillard aims to persuade voters that Labor should be
rewarded for implementing stimulus measures that avoided a
recession during the global financial crisis even at the cost of
a budget deficit. Abbott, the coalition’s third leader since its
defeat almost three years ago, is benefiting from Liberal Prime
Minister John Howard’s record of nine budget  surpluses
 between 1998 and 2007.  
 “Nostalgia for the Howard era” is driving the polls, Kuhn
said. “There’s a lot more uncertainty now.”  
 The Treasury’s  budget update  released yesterday showed the
next government faces a deficit of A$40.7 billion ($36.7
billion) this year and A$$10.4 billion in 2011-12 followed by a
surplus of A$3.5 billion a year later. The report forecast 3
percent economic growth in 2010-11, rising to 3.75 percent the
following year.  
 “We did what we had to do to get Australia through the
global financial crisis,” Financial Services Minister  Chris Bowen  told reporters in Sydney today. The nation kept its AAA
credit rating and will return to surplus in three years, ahead
of any major advanced economy, he said.  
 “That’s our economic record. We’re more than happy to run
on it,” he said.  
 Opposition spokesman Andrew Robb today said Gillard’s
“reckless spending” is putting pressure on the daily cost of
living.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Marion Rae in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Australian opposition Liberal Party leader Tony Abbott speaks at a press conference in Melbourne. Photographer: William West/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's William Pesek speaks from Tokyo with Bloomberg’s Haslinda Amin about next month's Australian election.
     Australian opposition leader Tony Abbott and Prime Minister Julia Gillard have placed management of the economy at the top of their election campaigns before a national vote next month largely being fought over how much taxes companies pay and who gets to come to Australia. (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own. Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
