-- Gokarn Says Factories Are Facing Capacity Constraints Spurring Inflation
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-07-27T14:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/gokarn-says-factories-are-facing-capacity-constraints-spurring-inflation.html

          
          
             India’s factories are facing
capacity constraints stoking price increases, Reserve Bank of
India Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  said after the central bank
raised key rates for a fourth time this year.  
 Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  raised the reverse repurchase
rate a half point, to 4.5 percent, and the repurchase rate to
5.75 percent from 5.5 percent, today, to slow inflation.  
 Prices are rising in India as its record 8.4 percent
average economic growth since 2004 is straining capacities in
roads, ports and factories.  Apollo Tyres Ltd.  added a fourth
plant in April to boost capacity by 50 percent, while Tata
Steel Ltd., India’s largest producer, last month won
environmental approval to increase steelmaking capacity by 43
percent to 9.7 million metric tons.  
 “We have seen a very strong build up of price pressures
coming from a strong surge in demand and that is putting
pressure on various capacities and that is driving inflation,”
Gokarn said in an interview with Bloomberg UTV today. “We are
reaching capacity constraints domestically which require some
reigning in, some mild breaks.”  
 Consumer prices paid by industrial and farm workers in
India are running close to 14 percent, government data show.
That’s the most after Venezuela’s 32 percent inflation rate,
according to Bloomberg data compiled from 82 countries.  
 “Growth is approaching its potential,” Gokarn said. “At
the same time we want to ensure that it doesn’t go beyond a
point where inflationary pressures go out of control.”  
 Workers Strike  
 The central bank boosted its estimate for  wholesale-price
inflation  for the year to March to 6 percent from 5.5 percent
and the economic growth forecast to 8.5 percent from 8 percent
during the period.  
 Workers in several Indian factories went on strike in
recent weeks, demanding more pay as living costs rose.
Nokia said July 14 that it signed a long-term wage agreement
with employees, after workers stayed away from work at their
factory in the southern Indian city of Chennai.  
 Wipro Ltd. , India’s third-largest software exporter, said
it increased salaries by 9 percent in the quarter ended March
31, while larger rival Infosys Technologies Ltd. gave 14
percent to 16 percent wage increases to retain workers.  
 “Inflation is now being significantly driven by demand-
side factors,” Subbarao said. “It is imperative that we
continue in the direction of normalizing our policy instruments
to a level consistent with the evolving growth and inflation
scenarios.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        