-- Government Calls for 10% Cut in Ministry Budgets Next Year to Curtail Debt
-- Toru Fujioka
-- 2010-07-27T09:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/government-calls-for-10-cut-in-ministry-budgets-next-year-to-curtail-debt.html

          
          
             Japan’s government will ask
ministries to cut their budgets by 10 percent for the year
starting April 2011 as Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  tries to rein in
the world’s largest debt load.  
 The reductions will help the government keep spending at
this year’s 71 trillion yen ($813 billion), a pledge Kan made
last month. The government said it will devote more than 1
trillion yen to growth policies, according to budget guidelines
approved by the Cabinet in Tokyo today.  
 Kan is attempting to restore fiscal discipline in an
economy where  debt  is set to exceed 200 percent of gross
domestic product. Fresh from defeat in mid-term elections, Kan
may face resistance from politicians who want to bolster
spending to protect the nation from a global economic slowdown.  
 “They have the right attitude, but we have to see if they
can really succeed and live up to their fiscal consolidation
pledges,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS
Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo. “The economic slowdown will
become more apparent as the yen gains and stimulus measures
start to fade, heightening calls for more spending.”  
 The government already said in its mid-term fiscal plan
last month that it would cap spending and new bond sales as well
as balance the budget by fiscal 2020.  
 Cabinet officials including National Strategy Minister
 Satoshi Arai  have indicated they would consider economic
measures if needed. Record stimulus packages that included
incentives to buy cars and electronics helped pull Japan out of
its worst postwar recession. Trade Minister  Masayuki Naoshima 
said last week the yen’s advance posed a significant risk to the
nation’s export-led recovery.  
 The natural increase in social welfare costs due to an
aging population and funds for the ruling Democratic Party of
Japan’s childcare handout program are exempt from the 10 percent
rule. Ministries and agencies are typically asked to submit
their spending plans to the Ministry of Finance by August.
Bureaucrats use those requests to compile the budget in December.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        