-- Greek Villas Marked Down 45% as Crisis Hits Island Homes
-- Sharon Smyth
-- 2010-07-27T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/greek-villas-get-45-markdowns-as-economic-crisis-devalues-island-property.html

          
          
             Greek island homes, long coveted by
millionaires and Hollywood stars such as  Tom Hanks , are being
marked down by as much as 45 percent as the country’s debt
crisis destroys demand for holiday getaways.  
 A half-built villa on Mykonos, an island in the Aegean Sea
known for its all-night  beach parties , is being offered by
brokers at Athens-based  Ploumis   Sotiropoulos OE  for 2 million
euros ($2.6 million) after the price was reduced by 500,000
euros. The same firm is seeking a buyer for a three-bedroom home
on Corfu for 750,000 euros, down from an original asking price
of 1.4 million euros. So far, no bidders have emerged.  
 “It’s a scary place to invest right now,” said Mike
Braunholtz, a broker at  Prestige Property Group , which markets
properties on the Greek islands. “Things aren’t going to
improve until the economic picture becomes clearer.”  
 Greece is counting on a 110 billion-euro bailout from the
European Union and the International Monetary Fund to avert a
default and end the nation’s first recession since 1993. Prime
Minister  George Papandreou , having raised taxes and cut civil-
service wages, is imposing luxury property taxes to convince
voters that the wealthy also are helping foot the bill.  
 Papandreou’s austerity package calls for an extra levy on
properties valued at more than 5 million euros. Owners of homes
worth more than 400,000 euros also will pay higher taxes.  
 The program puts pressure on homeowners and debt-laden
developers to lower prices, said Ioannis Kaligiannakis, an
Athens-based property analyst at Colliers International Hellas.  
 Tourist Trap  
 Greece, which borders Albania, the Republic of Macedonia,
Bulgaria and Turkey, has more than 1,000 islands and the 10th-
longest coastline in the world. The country attracts about 15
million visitors a year, according to data compiled by the
 Hellenic Statistical Authority .  
 Property declines have been smaller in Spain, Portugal and
Italy. Prices for luxury homes have dropped 8 percent to 10
percent in Spain from the peak in 2008, according to
 Idealista.com , the country’s largest real estate website.  
 The market is holding steady in Portugal, where 832
kilometers (517 miles) of coastline and the archipelagos of
Madeira and Azores attract about 13 million tourists each year,
said Liselore Ligtermoet, a Lisbon-based marketing manager at
International Realty Group.  
 “We’re not seeing bargain hunters here,” Ligtermoet said.  
 Discounts also have been hard to find in Italy since the
country emerged from recession in the third quarter of 2009,
said Angelo Savioli, a director at Sotheby’s International
Realty in Rome. “Prices are actually rising in areas such as
Rome, Venice, Milan and Florence,” he said.  
 Tax Increases  
 Greece plans to increase the so-called objective value it
places on real estate for tax purposes next year. The system
depends on an assessment of a property’s value based on the area
and amenities, rather than on the actual market value, which is
usually higher.  
 State revenue will increase next year with the new program,
Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said on July 5.  
 “The tax overhaul is certainly a concern for property
investors in Greece,” said  Liam Bailey , head of residential
research at Knight Frank LLC in London. “These measures
specifically target the rich, higher-end buyer.”  
 Prestige is marketing a three-story, eight-bedroom  villa 
with a swimming pool on Mykonos for 4.1 million euros, down from
5.5 million euros. More than a third of the island’s 11,000
residents are foreigners, according to its  official website .  
 ‘Forrest Gump’  
 Tom Hanks, the Oscar-winning star of “Forrest Gump” and
producer of “My Big Fat Greek Wedding,” and his wife,  Rita
Wilson , an actress whose father was born in Greece, have a
property on  Antiparos , according to a spokeswoman for the
island’s  Community Council .  
 House prices on the mainland also are falling. Ploumis
Sotiropoulos is helping sell a 450-square-meter (4,800-square-
foot) villa in Ekali, a wealthy suburb of Athens where former
Prime Minister  Andreas Papandreou  lived until his death in 1996,
for 2 million euros. The asking price has dropped 48 percent.  
 “It’s tough this year,” said Giannis Ploumis, the chief
executive officer of Ploumis Sotiropoulos. “More properties are
on the market and fewer buyers are willing to invest.”  
 The economy will contract by about 4 percent this year and
by 2.6 percent in 2011, according to estimates from the Greek
Finance Ministry.  
 Greece is losing its cache with potential buyers “simply
looking at other places,” said Bailey of Knight Frank.  
 French Chateau  
 France is gaining in popularity as it offers plenty of
bargains and the country’s economic prospects make the market
more attractive than Greece, Braunholtz said. The economy will
grow 1.4 percent this year, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Prestige’s website features a 12-bedroom  French chateau 
near Toulouse for 477,000 euros and a nine-bedroom  property 
about 15 minutes drive from Grenoble that’s on the market for
1.9 million euros.  
 London is profiting from Greece’s financial turmoil. In
April, Greek buyers accounted for about 6 percent of all
property purchases above 2 million pounds ($3 million) in the
U.K. capital, according to  Knight Frank . That was double the
average of the past three years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sharon Smyth  in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A three-story villa, whose price is down from 5.5 million euros to 4.1 million euros,  is seen on the island of Mykonos. Source: Gougoussi/107 via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A three-story villa, whose price is down from 5.5 million euros to 4.1 million euros,  is seen on the island of Mykonos in an aerial view. Source: Gougoussi/107 via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The living room of a three-story villa, whose price is down from 5.5 million euros to 4.1 million euros, is seen on the island of Mykonos. Source: Gougoussi/107 via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The terrace of a three-story Greek villa, whose price is down from 5.5 million euros to 4.1 million euros, is seen on the island of Mykonos. Source: Gougoussi/107 via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The exterior of a three-story Greek villa, whose price is down from 5.5 million euros to 4.1 million euros, is seen on the island of Mykonos. Source: Gougoussi/107 via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
