-- Gruebel Tops Goldman With `Don't Lose Any Money' Mantra at UBS
-- Elena Logutenkova
-- 2010-07-27T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/gruebel-tops-goldman-sachs-with-don-t-lose-any-money-risk-mantra-at-ubs.html

          
          
             UBS AG  went from last to third in
equity sales and trading revenue in the latest quarter among
the world’s largest investment banks, passing  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. along the way.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  attributed the
improvement at UBS’s investment bank to prudence, and praised
the people who “take risk, evaluate and manage it.” A rebound
at the unit helped  UBS earn  2.01 billion Swiss francs ($1.9
billion) in the quarter, the Zurich-based bank said yesterday,
surpassing the estimate of analysts by almost 80 percent.  
 Gruebel, who led a turnaround at Credit Suisse Group AG
earlier this decade, joined UBS in February of last year after
more than $50 billion of credit losses and writedowns during the
subprime crisis. He has hired more than 850 people to rebuild
the bank’s debt and equity units, and appointed  Carsten Kengeter , formerly of Goldman Sachs, to co-head the investment
bank with  Alexander Wilmot-Sitwell .  
 “The results speak for themselves,” said  Dirk Hoffmann- Becking , a London-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. “UBS
has become a lot better at hedging its bets. They hear the alarm
bells quicker and react quicker.”  
 UBS’s share of equity trading revenue rose to 14 percent in
the second quarter from 9.8 percent in the first, company
reports show. Only Credit Suisse of Zurich and New York-based
Morgan Stanley took a bigger share.  
 Hedging Volatility  
 UBS decided in May to hedge its positions on equity options
sold to clients, anticipating a jump in volatility that occurred
after a May 6 market plunge temporarily erased $862 billion in
value from U.S. equities in less than 20 minutes. Goldman Sachs,
which saw its equities revenue fall by almost half in the second
quarter from the first, said last week that part of the drop was
due to the firm’s equity derivatives division not hedging its
short position on volatility fast enough.  
 “We thought in May that we better cover it and we covered
it,” UBS Chief Financial Officer  John Cryan , 49, said on a
conference call with reporters and analysts yesterday. “It
wasn’t a trade that was intended to make money. It was a trade
that was intended to avoid the risk that we lost money.”  
 While new hires, revamped management and better morale have
helped improve the bank’s results, so has an increased aversion
to risk, said Cryan. UBS cut risk-weighted assets at the
securities unit by 45 percent since the beginning of 2008.
Gruebel and Kengeter, 43, monitor traders’ positions, he said.  
 ‘Biggest Casualties’  
 “Carsten is on top of all of the risks, every day risk
calls, talking to traders,” said Cryan. “And that didn’t
happen during the past four or five years before he joined.”  
 While too much prudence can come at a cost in terms of
future earnings, “we’re far away from that being a major issue
at UBS,” said Hoffmann-Becking.  
 Gruebel, 66, who was hired out of retirement to revive UBS,
skipped college and started his career as a trainee at Deutsche
Bank AG in 1961. He joined Credit Suisse in 1970, rising through
the ranks from its Eurobond trading desk. He doubled the bank’s
earnings and share price in the three years after taking over as
sole CEO in 2004.  
 UBS shares  climbed  11 percent in Swiss trading yesterday,
and have risen 73 percent since Gruebel took over in February of
2009, following a state rescue.  
 “UBS has been one of the biggest casualties of the
financial crisis so there was an awful lot of work to be done to
restructure the business,” said  Henk Potts , who helps oversee
about $235 billion at Barclays Stockbrokers Ltd. in London.
“Perhaps we’re seeing a light at the end of a very long and
dark tunnel.”  
 Equities Leadership  
 UBS changed management of the equities trading unit after
 Daniel Coleman , an almost 24-year veteran, stepped down in
March. The bank appointed  Matt Rule ,  Dominic Vail  and  Joe Oertel 
in April to head equity sales in Asia, Europe and the Americas,
respectively. It hired  Axel Kilian  from Nomura Holdings Inc. to
run equity derivatives distribution, and in May named  Yassine Bouhara , formerly with Deutsche Bank, and  Francois Gouws  to head
the global equities business, succeeding Coleman.  
 Those changes followed a revamp of UBS’s debt trading
business, which is now “nearly completed,” according to
Gruebel. UBS in January named  Rajeev Misra  and  Dimitri Psyllidis , formerly with Deutsche Bank and Merrill Lynch & Co.,
respectively, as co-heads of fixed-income, currencies and
commodities.  
 Strategy Working  
 The company hired  Neal Shear  as global head of securities
and  Roberto Hoornweg  as the global head of securities
distribution, both formerly with Morgan Stanley, to align the
equities and debt units and bring their sales teams closer
together.  
 UBS beat analysts’ estimates on debt trading revenue, which
fell 21 percent in the second quarter to 1.7 billion francs from
the first three months. The drop was smaller than the average of
38 percent at its seven rivals, according to company reports.  
 “Gruebel’s strategy has worked out,” said  Dirk Becker , a
Frankfurt-based banking analyst at Kepler Capital Markets. “It
looked for awhile like UBS may have over-hired, but in the
second quarter we saw that the hires did bring in revenue.”  
 Although the bank’s 10 percent decline in trading revenue
in the second quarter from the first was less than the average
35 percent drop reported by its seven competitors, its total
sales and trading revenue so far this year is the lowest.  
 Gruebel isn’t satisfied. The equities unit still has “to
do a lot of  catching up ,” he told reporters yesterday, while
the debt business of a bank the size of UBS should be making 4
billion francs in revenue each quarter, double the target he set
for it in November.  
 Gruebel said his message to traders now is similar to what
it was a year ago, when the bank just wanted to avoid losing
money: “Still don’t lose any money, but do more.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Oswald Gruebel, chief executive officer of UBS AG, gestures while speaking during a news conference in Zurich. Photographer: Peter Frommenwiler/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
