-- Miami-Dade County Saves $5 Million Annually in Airport Financing Costs
-- Simone Baribeau
-- 2010-07-27T04:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/miami-dade-county-saves-5-million-annually-in-its-airport-borrowing-fees.html

          
          
             Miami International Airport, the
largest U.S. gateway to Latin America, said the financing costs
for its most recent bond sale were about half a percentage point
less than an April estimate.  
 The so-called true interest cost of the securities, which
takes into account the timing of the interest and principal
payments, was 4.92 percent, compared with an April estimate of
5.44 percent, the airport said in a release yesterday. The lower
interest rates will result in net savings of $5 million in
annual borrowing costs.  
 Miami-Dade County issued its last part of more than $500
million in revenue bonds on July 22 for the $6 billion expansion
of the airport, which includes additional cargo areas, a new
air-traffic control tower and an increase in the area of the
terminal building by more than 60 percent.  
 “We’re thrilled,” said Anne Syrcle Lee, chief financial
officer for the Miami-Dade Aviation Department, which operates
the airport. “The market conditions were vastly better and we
had excellent underwriters who marketed very aggressively.”  
 Yields on 10-year, top-rated municipal bonds have fallen 40
basis points since April 15, according to the  Municipal Market
Advisors index .  
 The county, which shaved about $20 million from the planned
sale, was able to sell at a lower face value by pricing many of
the notes at a premium, said Lee in an interview. The securities
are backed largely by revenue from the airport, which is the
biggest international hub for  AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines.  
 Underlying Bonds  
 The underlying bonds are rated A- by Standard & Poor’s, the
fourth-lowest investment grade, and A2 at Moody’s Investors
Service, the fifth-lowest.  
 Miami International Airport also said yesterday that its
passenger and freight volume beat its forecasts through the
first six months of the year as travel to Latin America held up
better in the recession than other parts of the world, the group
said. Total passenger traffic grew 4 percent through the period,
compared with the year before and freight volume grew 26.5
percent over the same period.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in New York at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        