-- IBM Probes Show EU Continuing `Tough Stance' on Technology
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-07-28T20:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/ibm-probes-show-eu-s-almunia-will-continue-tough-stance-on-technology.html

          
          
             The European Union’s probes into
 International Business Machines Corp.  show that Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  may continue his predecessor’s
penchant for going after technology companies.  
 A string of investigations under former EU antitrust
commissioner  Neelie Kroes  resulted in 1.68 billion euros ($2.2
billion) in fines against  Microsoft Corp.  and a record 1.06
billion euro penalty against  Intel Corp.  Almunia is likely to
maintain an aggressive approach, lawyers said.  
 “The focus on IT is very much where the commission is at
the moment,” said David Strang, who heads the antitrust
practice at law firm Barlow Lyde & Gilbert LLP in London.
“They’re looking for things that have a big impact on
consumers. IBM is a major vendor and that fits with their
strategy.”  
 The European Commission , the antitrust regulator for the
27-nation EU,  said  the in-depth investigations would look at
whether Armonk, New York-based IBM is abusing its dominant
position in the market for mainframe computers. Almunia has
already signaled the agency may probe other companies, including
Google Inc., owner of the world’s most-used search engine.  
 U.K. Website  Foundem , French legal search engine
 Ejustice.fr  and Microsoft Corp.’s Italian search service have
filed an antitrust complaint against Google over placement of
search results and some terms and conditions of the service.  
 “Given the importance of search to a competitive online
marketplace, I am looking at the allegations very carefully,”
Almunia, 62, said in a speech in London this month.  
 ‘Tangible Proof’  
 Almunia is offering “tangible proof of a continued tough
stance,” said Stephen Rose, a lawyer at Eversheds LLP in
London.  
 The decision to open a probe into IBM was partially in
response to a complaint by T3 Technologies Inc., which Microsoft
invested in. IBM said in a July 26 statement that “there is no
merit to the claims being made by Microsoft and its satellite
proxies.”  
 While a spokesman for Mountain View, California-based
Google declined to comment yesterday, the company has previously
said that it is cooperating with the EU’s inquiry into Internet
search services, which is at an “early, fact-finding stage.”  
 IBM will have a few months to respond to the commission,
with the possibility to ask for an extension. Based on the
complaints, the evidence and IBM’s response, the commission will
decide whether to drop the case or pursue it.  
 At this point it’s “much too early” to say what any fine
may be, said Christian Riis-Madsen, an antitrust partner in
Brussels at law firm  O’Melveny & Myers LLP .  
 T3, Turbo Hercules  
 The commission is investigating complaints by T3 and another
vendor, Turbo Hercules, that IBM tied sales of mainframe
hardware to its operating system. The EU regulator opened a
second probe over its concerns that IBM blocked competing
suppliers of maintenance services from accessing spare parts.  
 Even as IBM has shifted away from hardware to focus on
software and services, the mainframe has remained of central
importance to the company. IBM  fell  20 cents to $128.43 at
4 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange today.  
 Mainframes  
 Though IBM, the world’s biggest provider of computer
services, gets less than 4 percent of its  revenue  directly from
selling mainframes, the machines help generate sales of
software, services and financing. Altogether, the contribution
is almost a quarter of IBM’s sales and 40 percent of its
profits, Sanford C. Bernstein analyst  Toni Sacconaghi  wrote in a
report July 26.  
 Riis-Madsen said the dispute may be complicated over
questions about IBM’s attempts to protect its intellectual
property rights. T3’s complaint argued IBM withholds “patent
licenses and certain intellectual property.” Kroes last year
dropped a probe into  Qualcomm Inc.  over whether it charged
excessive royalties on patents.  
 “It’s going to be a tough case for the commission, because
it involves fairly complex issues,” Riis-Madsen said. “It
really doesn’t sound as if IBM is involved in any under-handed
exclusionary conduct, but it’s more that the commission is
concerned they’re using their IP rights too aggressively.”  
 Companies can be fined as much as 10 percent of annual
sales for violating EU antitrust rules. IBM’s  sales  last year
were $95.76 billion.  
 Barlow Lyde’s Strang said it was unlikely any penalties
would be close to 10 percent of that amount or even in the same
range as those against Microsoft.  
 The probe is the second time the EU has looked at IBM’s
position in the mainframe market. The company  settled  an earlier
case in the 1980s.  
 “There are some interesting parallels with the 1980s IBM
settlement,” said Robert O’Donoghue, a London lawyer who
specializes in EU competition law. “What will be very
interesting in this case is whether IBM will fight to the bitter
end or whether it thinks there’s some remedy that could be
offered that would make the investigation go away.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Joaquin Almunia, commissioner for economic and monetary affairs for the European Union. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
