-- Iceland to Probe Magma's Purchase of HS Orka, Stop Sale of Energy Assets
-- Omar R. Valdimarsson
-- 2010-07-27T18:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/iceland-to-probe-magma-s-purchase-of-hs-orka-stop-sale-of-energy-assets.html

          
          
             The Icelandic government said it
will investigate Vancouver-based  Magma Energy Corp.’s  purchase
of local geothermal energy producer HS Orka hf and may block the
takeover.  
 The move comes after three lawmakers from the Left Green
Movement, the junior partner in the ruling coalition, said they
would stop backing the government unless it prevented Magma’s
acquisition of  HS Orka . The coalition has 34 lawmakers in the
63-seat parliament.  
 “It’s the intention of the government to wind down the
privatization in the energy sector and ensure that energy
companies are owned by public entities,” Prime Minister  Johanna Sigurdardottir  told reporters today in Reykjavik. “Our primary
objective is to ensure public ownership in the energy sector.”  
 Magma in June 2009 established a Swedish subsidiary that
created Magma Iceland later that year. Magma Iceland in May
completed the purchase of 98.53 percent of HS Orka after the
transaction was approved by a parliamentary commission.
Icelandic law prevents the sale of majority stakes in energy
companies to buyers from outside the European Economic Area.  
 The government’s investigation will focus on whether Magma
circumvented Icelandic and European laws by establishing a
company in Sweden for the sole purpose of investing in Iceland,
Finance Minister  Steingrimur J. Sigfusson  said. The findings of
the investigation will be delivered by Aug. 15.  
 ‘Comprehensive’ Consultation  
 Magma  said it is still reviewing the government decision
but plans to proceed with the HS Orka acquisition, which will
create jobs and tax revenue.  
 “We have confidence that this deal will close as the
consultation process was comprehensive,” said  Alison Thompson ,
a Magma spokeswoman in Vancouver, in an e-mailed response to
questions. “We are investing in Iceland at a time when it is
most needed.”  
 The government intends to pass laws that will ensure that
“the utilization of common natural resources by private parties
are only temporary,” Sigurdardottir said.  
 Sigfusson didn’t rule out the government acquiring Magma’s
shares in HS Orka, either by purchasing or seizing them.  
 More than 14,000 Icelanders, led by singer  Bjork Gudmundsdottir , signed a petition calling on the government to
prevent Magma from acquiring HS Orka.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar Valdimarsson  in London at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        