-- Iceland to Warm to European Union After Icesave Is Resolved, Minister Says
-- James G. Neuger
-- 2010-07-27T12:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/iceland-to-warm-to-european-union-after-icesave-is-resolved-minister-says.html

          
          
             Iceland’s citizens will rally behind
plans to join the European Union once a dispute over demands by
European depositors for $5.1 billion in compensation from a bank
collapse is resolved, Foreign Minister Ossur Skarphedinsson
said.  
 Speaking as Iceland started EU membership talks,
Skarphedinsson blamed the growing anti-EU mood in Iceland on
calls by Britain and the Netherlands for the payment to cover
losses from the failure of  Landsbanki Islands hf  failed in 2008.  
 Iceland’s people “have always learned from their own
history,” Skarphedinsson told reporters in Brussels today.
“Iceland has always blossomed when our contacts and exchanges
with Europe have been at the most intense.”  
 EU entry became less popular among Icelanders after the
economic crisis wrecked the island’s banking system and left it
dependent on as much as $10 billion in international loans,
Skarphedinsson said.  
 While the government favors EU membership, public
enthusiasm plummeted to 26 percent in June from as high 66
percent in December 2008, according to a Capacent Gallup poll
published July 1 by Iceland’s  RUV  state broadcaster.  
 EU Enlargement Commissioner  Stefan Fule  said it is up to
Iceland’s leaders -- themselves not unanimously behind the
membership bid -- to turn public opinion around.  
 “I am concerned by the current lack of broad public
support,” Fule said. “There’s a need for more objective
information about the EU and its policies. This is a job first
and foremost for the Icelandic government.”  
 Target Date  
 Skarphedinsson declined to predict when the dispute over
the losses by Icesave account-holders will be settled. He and EU
officials also set no target date for Iceland to become a member
of the bloc.  
 Both sides pointed to Icesave and Iceland’s refusal to
accept EU fishing quotas or give up whale hunting as the main
obstacles to the island of 320,000 people becoming an EU member.  
 “Whaling? Is that a problem?” Skarphedinsson said. “We
want the EU to take into account the fact that this is a part of
our tradition.”  
 The next step is in November when the  European Commission ,
the EU’s executive arm, starts assessing Iceland’s compliance
with EU legislation. Bulgaria and Romania were the last nations
to join the EU, bringing membership to 27 in 2007.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        