-- Tin Gains to Highest Level Since Lehman Failure in 2008 as Stockpiles Drop
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-27T05:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/tin-gains-to-highest-level-since-lehman-failure-in-2008-as-stockpiles-drop.html

          
          
             Tin, the best performing industrial
metal this year, climbed to the highest level since the collapse
of  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. in September 2008 as shrinking
inventories signaled steady demand.  
 The metal for three-month delivery advanced as much as 2.1
percent to $19,800 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange,
and traded at $19,500 at 1 p.m. in Shanghai. That’s the highest
intraday price since Sept. 3, 2008, before Lehman’s failure
triggered a credit-market seizure and global recession.  
 LME inventories  of the metal used in packaging, solder and
cans have shrunk 43 percent this year to 15,370 tons, the lowest
level since June 2009. A rally in equity markets, declines in
the dollar and optimism that the economic recovery remains
intact helped an  index of London-traded metals  to post the
biggest weekly gain since February last week.  
 “The contractions in stockpiles underline improving
demand against supply,” Ran Jun, an analyst at researcher
Beijing Antaike Information Development Co., said today. Demand
for tin products and electronics has recovered a lot from
western countries this year, Ran said.  
 Exports of tin from Indonesia, the world’s largest producer,
dropped 16 percent this year through May compared with the same
period last year, Barclays Capital said on July 13. Outbound
shipments fell 25.7 percent in June from a year ago, according
to Indonesia’s trade ministry.  
 Supply Deficit  
 “Tin may reach a supply deficit this year because
production from Indonesia, which supplies around 30 percent of
world demand, isn’t as much as last year,” Metty  Fauziah Wardhani , a mining analyst at PT Danareksa Sekuritas, said in an
interview today. “From the demand side there is an increase
because production of electronics, which account for about 60
percent of demand, is rising,” he said.  
 Tin’s rally has boosted the shares of producers.  Yunnan Tin
Co. , China’s largest producer, has jumped 22 percent this month
while the benchmark  CSI 300 Index  has risen 9.3 percent. PT
Timah, Indonesia’s largest producer, touched a high of 2,475
rupiah today and yesterday, the highest price since May 5.  
 “Timah’s performance will be helped because of the
improvement in tin price,” said Wardhani. “Timah’s share price
may climb to 3,000 rupiah by year end.”  
 Tin futures in London have gained 15 percent this year,
while nickel, the second-best performer, has advanced 12 percent,
according to Bloomberg data. The three-month copper contract has
lost 3.8 percent.  
 -- Li Xiaowei ,  Berni Moestafa . Editor:  Matthew Oakley .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Li Xiaowei  in Shanghai at 
 Xli12@bloomberg.net 
Berni Moestafa at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        