-- Reserve Bank of India to Hold Meetings Every Six Weeks to Manage Inflation
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-07-27T08:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/india-to-increase-frequency-of-interest-rate-meetings-to-every-six-weeks.html

          
          
             India said it will halve the gap
between monetary policy decisions, aligning the frequency of the
central bank’s meetings closer with others in the world’s
biggest economies.  
 The Reserve Bank of India will release monetary-policy
statements every six weeks, compared with the once a quarter
currently, it said today after raising interest rates more than
economists expected. The next announcement will be on Sept. 16.  
 Accelerating  inflation  in India has led to strikes and
street rallies and prompted Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  to raise
 interest rates  four times this year, including two inter-meeting
increases. The greater frequency of rate decisions would reduce
speculation over policy actions, economists say.  
 “Scheduling more meetings indicate the likelihood of more
policy adjustments and in the current environment of a
tightening bias, it would imply that the chance of more hikes
has increased,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , a Hong Kong-based
senior economist and strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “It
will also help in managing inflation expectations.”  
 The U.S. Federal Reserve and the Bank of Canada schedule
rate-setting meetings eight times a year, while the Bank of
Japan has 14 such gatherings annually. Policy makers at the
European Central Bank, the Bank of England, the Bank of Korea
and Bank Indonesia meet monthly to decide on rates, while the
Reserve Bank of Australia release such decisions 11 times a year.  
 Among other Group of 20 nations, China doesn’t have
scheduled decisions while Argentina doesn’t typically use
interest rates as a monetary policy tool.  
 Unscheduled Decisions  
 The Indian central bank has made 13 inter-meeting changes
to borrowing costs since the beginning of 2008, compared with
three times for the Fed and none for the ECB and BOE.  
 “This is a welcome move and will improve the transparency
of monetary policy,” said  Brian Jackson , a Hong Kong-based
senior emerging markets strategist at Royal Bank of Canada. “It
should reduce the need to make rate changes between meetings and
so will reduce speculation about off-schedule moves.”  
 The Reserve Bank of India raised the  reverse repurchase
rate  to 4.5 percent from 4 percent and the repurchase rate to
5.75 percent from 5.5 percent, according to a statement from the
central bank in Mumbai.  
 The reverse repurchase rate may be raised to 5.25 percent
by the end of 2010, while the repurchase rate may climb to 6.25
percent in the same period, Kowalczyk said.  
 The Reserve Bank also boosted its estimate for wholesale-
price inflation for the year to March to 6 percent from 5.5
percent and the economic growth forecast to 8.5 percent from 8
percent. Consumer prices paid by industrial and farm workers in
India are running close to 14 percent, government data show.
That’s the most after Venezuela’s 32 percent inflation rate,
according to Bloomberg data compiled from 82 countries.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        