-- Indian Ocean Island Nations Plan Joint Naval Force to Fight Somali Piracy
-- Fred Ojambo
-- 2010-07-27T10:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/indian-ocean-island-nations-plan-joint-naval-force-to-fight-somali-piracy.html

          
          
             Four Indian Ocean island nations and
the French territory of Reunion plan to form a joint naval force
to help combat pirates from Somalia, and they want the European
Union to finance it, the foreign minister of Comoros said.  
 Comoros, Mauritius, Madagascar, the Seychelles and France’s
Reunion territory are negotiating the formation of the force,
Fahmi Said Ibrahim El Maceli said late yesterday in an interview
in the Ugandan capital, Kampala. They have already approached EU
officials about possible funding, he said, declining to mention
how much money they are seeking or the initial EU response to
their request.  
 The force, if it took shape, would be one of the first
efforts by a group of countries in Africa or the Indian Ocean
region to jointly police the seas to counter the threat from
pirates based in Somalia. The force would supplement a naval
mission from the 27-nation EU that has patrolled the seas off
the Horn of Africa since December 2008, Maceli said.  
 The U.S. leads a separate fleet from the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization, and individual warships from countries such
as Russia, China, India, Japan and Malaysia have also
contributed warships to the anti-piracy campaign.  
 “We have started on the plans to have a common force to
patrol our waters,” said Maceli, who was in Kampala for a
meeting of  African Union  officials that ends today. “We want to
have a common solution to this piracy problem.”  
 Economic Hardship  
 The four island nations and Reunion want to create their
own force “as soon as possible” because of the threat Somali
pirates pose to their economies. Insurers, for example, are
charging higher rates for commercial ships that transport goods
to Comoros and its neighbors, and this creates financial
hardships for local populations, he said.  
 “We have already asked the European Union to help with
funding so that we get rid the region of pirates,” he said.
“We have asked for both funds and military aid for this task.”  
 Details of the force will be determined after funding is
secured, the minister said.  
 Somalia is in its 19th year of civil war and hasn’t had a
functioning central administration since the overthrow of former
dictator  Mohamed Siad Barre  in 1991.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fred Ojambo  in Kampala via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        