-- India Raises Benchmark Rate More Than Forecast in Battle to Rein in Prices
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-07-27T14:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/india-raises-benchmark-rate-more-than-forecast-as-inflation-sparks-strikes.html

          
          
             India’s central bank increased a key
interest rate more than economists forecast, battling to contain
a surge in inflation that’s led to strikes and street rallies.  
 The central bank raised the reverse repurchase rate a half
point to 4.5 percent, and the repurchase rate to 5.75 percent
from 5.5 percent, it said in Mumbai. Today was the first time
officials boosted one of the main rates by more than a quarter
point since the last series of increases in 2008; the median
forecasts in Bloomberg News surveys were for quarter-point moves.  
 Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has tightened monetary policy
faster than his counterparts in Asia this year, a pace that
hasn’t stopped workers from demanding higher wages at companies
from  Infosys Technologies Ltd.  to Nokia India Pvt. The
opposition intensified their attack on Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  in parliament today as the benchmark wholesale inflation
rate hovered above 10 percent for a fifth month.  
 “Inflation has become the dominant political and economic
issue in India,” said  Jay Shankar , chief economist at Religare
Capital Markets Ltd. in Mumbai. “The RBI needs to continue to
be aggressive with rate hikes to slow inflation.”  
 Stocks and rupee rose on India’s economic growth prospects,
while the yield on the 10-year government bond climbed to the
highest level in almost three months on inflation risks. The
Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  gained 0.3 percent,
while the rupee rose 0.8 percent to 46.665 against the dollar,
the biggest advance in five weeks. Bond yields jumped five basis
points to 7.72 percent.  
 Inflation Estimate  
 The central bank boosted its estimate for wholesale-price
inflation for the year to March to 6 percent from 5.5 percent
and the economic growth forecast to 8.5 percent from 8 percent
during the period.  
 While India’s growth has accelerated in recent years and
helped raise the global profile of its biggest companies,
inflation is imperiling the purchasing power of a population
where almost three quarters live on less than $2 a day.  
 Consumer prices paid by industrial and farm workers in
India are running close to 14 percent, government data show.
That’s the most after Venezuela’s 32 percent inflation rate,
according to Bloomberg data compiled from 82 countries.  
 Meet More Often  
 “We hope to get closer to some sort of a neutral situation
or neutral levels soon,” Subbarao told reporters in Mumbai
today after the decision. “The stance has clearly changed since
April to managing inflation and inflationary expectation from
the one of balancing growth and inflation.”  
 The central bank also said today that it plans to release
monetary-policy statements every six weeks instead of once a
quarter, according to the statement. The next announcement will
be on Sept. 16.  
 “This is a step in the right direction and gives the
central bank more flexibility in giving the right signals to
markets,” said  Tim Condon , ING’s chief Asia economist in
Singapore. “That’s how modern central banks should be working
in a fast changing world.”  
 India’s move comes after Malaysia raised rates three times
this year, while Korea and Thailand increased them once. The
Philippines and Indonesia have kept them on hold. In Australia,
central bankers have boosted rates six times since early October
as an economic expansion powered by Chinese demand for the
country’s commodities sparked inflation pressures.  
 ‘Supply Constraints’  
 Prices are rising in India as its record 8.4 percent
average economic growth since 2004 is straining capacities in
roads, ports and factories. China expanded an average 10.1
percent during the same period and consumer prices rose 2.9
percent in the country in June.  
 “India is facing higher inflation because it didn’t
address its supply constraints,”  Jahangir Aziz , a Mumbai-based
economist with JPMorgan Chase & Co., said before the report.  
 Frederic Neumann , a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc. said the South Asian nation needs to step up
investments in roads, ports and factories to expand capacities.
In 2009, China’s investment rate was 45 percent of its gross
domestic product compared with 37 percent in India, Neumann said.  
 Higher investment helped China produce 346.7 billion
kilowatt-hours of power last month, data from the Beijing-based
National Bureau of Statistics showed. That’s about six times the
electricity generated in India each month, according to the
nation’s Central Electricity Authority, forcing most companies
to invest in back-up generators, which push up costs.  
 Fuel Prices  
 “Capacity constraints are visible in several sectors and
pricing power is returning to producers,” Subbarao said in the
monetary policy statement. “Given the spread and persistence of
inflation, demand-side inflationary pressures need to be
contained.”  
 The inflation rate may jump by about a percentage point,
the finance ministry estimates, after Singh on June 25 allowed
state-run refiners including Indian Oil Corp. to raise fuel
prices.  
 Moody’s Investors Service yesterday welcomed that decision,
saying it will help cut the government’s budget deficit. It
raised the country’s local currency debt rating to Ba1, the
highest non-investment category.  
 Subbarao has held off on adopting a faster pace of rate
increases, pursuing a “calibrated” approach with one eye on
risks posed to the global economic recovery from Europe’s debt
crisis, along with a cash shortage caused by corporate tax
payments.  
 Global Concern  
 “If the global recovery falters, the risk of which has
increased since the April 2010 policy announcement, the
performance of emerging market economies is likely to be
adversely affected,” Subbarao said. “While India’s trade
linkages with the advanced economies are appreciably smaller
than those of other emerging economies, a widespread slowdown in
global trade will have an impact on manufacturing and service
sectors.”  
 Manufacturers in India are augmenting their capacities to
benefit from an economy that Goldman Sachs Group Inc. says will
become the biggest after China and the U.S. by 2050.  
 Apollo Tyres Ltd. , India’s largest tire manufacturer by
sales, added a fourth plant in April to boost capacity by 50
percent.  Tata Steel Ltd. , India’s largest producer, last month
won environmental approval to increase steelmaking capacity by
43 percent to 9.7 million metric tons.  
 Nationwide Strike  
 For now, opposition parties are stalling proceedings in the
monsoon session of parliament that started yesterday. The upper
and lower houses of the Indian parliament were adjourned until
noon today as opposition lawmakers sought a special debate on
rising prices.  
 The disruption came after they organized a nationwide
strike on July 5, forcing schools, shops and offices to remain
shut and disrupting air, road and rail transport in several
parts of the country.  
 “Inflation will dominate the parliament agenda and we need
a satisfactory answer on why prices can’t be curbed,” S.S.
Ahluwalia, a lawmaker from the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party,
said before the rate decision.  
 Workers in several Indian factories went on strike in
recent weeks, demanding more pay as living costs rose.  
 Nokia said July 14 that it signed a long-term wage
agreement with employees, after workers stayed away from work at
their factory in the southern Indian city of Chennai.  
 Wipro Ltd. , India’s third-largest software exporter, said
it increased salaries by 9 percent in the quarter ended March 31,
while larger rival Infosys Technologies Ltd. gave 14 percent to
16 percent wage increases to retain workers.  
 “Inflation is now being significantly driven by demand-
side factors,” Subbarao said. “It is imperative that we
continue in the direction of normalizing our policy instruments
to a level consistent with the evolving growth and inflation
scenarios.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Indranil Pan, chief economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Mark Barton about the outlook for Reserve Bank of India monetary policy.
     India needs tighter monetary policy to cool inflation, the central bank said, signaling the possibility of an interest-rate increase today. Pan, speaking from Mumbai, also discusses the government's decision to allow state-run refiners to raise gasoline and diesel costs in a bid to cut its subsidies bill. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
