-- India, Latin America Could Have `Massive Bilateral Trade,' IDB Report Says
-- Sandrine Rastello
-- 2010-07-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/india-latin-america-could-have-massive-bilateral-trade-idb-report-says.html

          
          
             India could become a major trade
partner for Latin American and the Caribbean if governments can
cut trade barriers and shipping costs are reduced, a study by
the  Inter-American Development Bank  said.  
 India’s 0.8 percent share of Latin American trade in 2008
compares with 7.7 percent for China, the bank said in a
statement. Since Latin America is rich in the natural resources
that are lacking in India, with a population of 1.1 billion,
there is potential for “massive bilateral trade,” IDB
President  Luis Alberto Moreno  wrote in a foreword to the study.  
 “Even though India is not yet on the radar of most Latin
American and Caribbean policy makers and businessmen, at least
not to the same extent as China, the region cannot afford to
continue to ignore the implications of its emergence,” Moreno
wrote.  
 China’s trade with Latin America and the Caribbean has been
growing, with its 2008 share having climbed from 6.3 percent in
2007. India’s share has remained much lower partly because
governments have yet to address trade obstacles, the IDB said.  
 India’s average tariff on Latin American agriculture goods
is 65 percent, more than five times China’s tariffs, the study
showed. Latin American tariffs on Indian goods reach as high as
9.8 percent for manufactured products, well above the range of 4
percent to 6 percent imposed by developed nations in the
Organization for Economic Cooperation & Development, the IDB
said.  
 Trade Talks  
 Transport costs are another major impediment to Latin
American trade with India, the IDB said. Unlike China, India has
no direct shipping service to Latin America, so goods must
travel to Singapore or Europe first, it said.  
 A 10 percent cut in freight rates would probably boost
imports of Indian goods by as much as 46 percent in Chile and 47
percent in Argentina, according to the report.  
 The study also urges countries in Latin American to address
their “well known deficiencies” in education, access to
credit, and infrastructure as India is poised to become a larger
competitor to the region’s manufacturers.  
 Latin America needs to increase productivity and move away
from labor-intensive goods, the report recommended.  
 “Governments in the region would be wise to acknowledge a
scenario in which India joins China as a major exporter of
manufactured goods,” the IDB report said. “It has become
abundantly clear that the manufacturing ‘road’ to development
has become highly congested and particularly hazardous for
countries that cannot count on an abundant supply of skilled
workers.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        