-- Investors Get Whacked by Nearsighted Wall Street: David Pauly
-- David Pauly
-- 2010-07-27T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/investors-get-nailed-by-nearsighted-wall-street-commentary-by-david-pauly.html

          
          
             To understand why individual
investors abandon the stock market, you only have to look at the
indignities suffered last week by  Amazon.com  Inc., McDonald’s
Corp. and T. Rowe Price Group Inc.  
 All three reported second-quarter profit that looked solid,
especially considering the tepid growth of world economies. All
three watched their stocks get whacked late last week because
the results didn’t measure up to Wall Street’s narrow vision.  
 Amazon, which sells everything from books to electric
shavers on the Internet, was punished by the market for
investing in its future. The company spent $196 million in the
quarter to build warehouses and centers that offer computer
services to other businesses.  
 This was the second quarter in a row that the Seattle-based
retailer had doubled its capital spending. If more companies
would take advantage of the current economic lull to expand, the
business outlook would pick up immediately -- and the companies
would be better prepared when growth accelerates.  
 But, moan Wall Street securities analysts, heavy spending
hurts profits. While Amazon.com’s second-quarter  profit  rose to
45 cents a share from 32 cents in the year-earlier period, it
 missed  the average analyst estimate of 54 cents.  
 Like Razor Blades  
 Analysts also said price cuts on Amazon’s Kindle electronic
reading device were bad news. Sorry. The real profit from Kindle
won’t be in its price but in the downloaded books that device
owners will buy in the future.  
 Wall Street’s shortsightedness prevailed on July 23 when
Amazon shares fell as much as 12 percent before closing down 1
percent at $118.87.  
 Folks who see McDonald’s as a reasonable investment were no
smarter, according to Wall Street wisdom. The biggest  restaurant
chain  said its second-quarter profit rose 12 percent to $1.23
billion, or $1.13 a share, as it continued to expand its menu
away from hamburgers and french fries.  
 McDonald’s frozen smoothies and frappes tempted customers
during the recent heat wave that engulfed the U.S., helping the
company to increase sales in stores open 13 months or more by
4.8 percent.  
 The chain may introduce other new products, such as frozen
lemonade and hot oatmeal in the next year, says  Mark Kalinowski ,
an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in New York.
McDonald’s also benefits from lack of competition, he says.  
 In the long run, that may be bad for Oak Brook, Illinois-
based McDonald’s because companies need competition to stay
sharp. For now, though, lack of it helps McDonald’s earnings.  
 No Surprise  
 Why then did the company’s  shares  drop 2.1 percent to
$69.90 on July 23? Because the results were pretty much what
analysts expected. No big upside. No momentum. No demand on Wall
Street. No brains there, either.  
 Mutual-fund manager  T. Rowe Price  managed to take in $5.1
billion in new money in the quarter when rivals BlackRock Inc.
and Janus Capital Group Inc. had net outflows.  
 What’s more, Baltimore-based Price’s profit in the period
rose to 59 cents a share from 38 cents in the year-earlier
quarter and revenue surged 31 percent to $577 million.  
 The market put more emphasis on Price’s failure to  match 
the average analyst earnings estimate of 61 cents and Chief
Executive Officer  James Kennedy ’s comment that investor inflows
slowed after stock prices plummeted in May.  
 Price’s stock dropped as much as 5.2 percent on July 23 and
 closed  down 3.2 percent at $47.85.  
 The share prices of all three companies may have fared even
worse if the market hadn’t launched a late rally at the end of
the day.  
 The wild swings in stock prices no doubt are exacerbated by
the computer-driven programs that account for so much of today’s
trading.  
 The poor computers don’t understand that today’s spending
will increase earnings in many quarters to come. But then, the
machines are no smarter than the people who program them.  
 ( David Pauly  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
David Pauly in Normandy Beach, New Jersey 
 dpauly@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        