-- Iraq's Daily Crude Oil Exports Drop 3.7% in June, After Increasing in May
-- Nayla Razzouk
-- 2010-07-27T14:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/iraq-s-daily-crude-oil-exports-drop-3-7-in-june-after-increasing-in-may.html

          
          
             Iraq, holder of the world’s third-
largest oil reserves, exported 3.7 percent less crude daily in
June than it did in the previous month, the Oil Ministry said,
without giving a reason for the decrease.  
 Exports fell in June to about 1.82 million barrels a day,
or 54.7 million barrels for the month, the ministry said today
in an e-mailed statement. That compares with May shipments of
1.89 million barrels a day, or 58.7 million barrels, it said.  
 Iraqi officials have usually attributed past declines in
crude exports to bad weather or insurgent attacks on the
country’s oil infrastructure.  
 The ministry’s announcement came after Falah al-Amri, the
head of Iraq’s Oil Marketing Co., said crude exports for this
month were likely to increase to more than 1.9 million barrels a
day. Al-Amri made that comment on July 18 in Baghdad. At the
time, the country had experienced no interruptions to its
exports for the month, he said. Iraq is likely to export about
half of its July shipments to Asia, al-Amri said.  
 Crude exports generated 86 percent of Iraq’s total
government revenue in 2008, according to the International
Monetary Fund, and the country continues to depend on oil sales
to finance its reconstruction after decades of conflict and
economic sanctions.  
 Third Round  
 Iraq is seeking foreign investors to help boost output at
its oil fields, which have suffered from a lack of investment
and modern technology. The government awarded 10 contracts to
international oil companies in two licensing rounds in 2009, and
it announced a third round of bidding this year to develop the
country’s natural gas reserves.  
 Revenue from oil exports dropped in June to $3.89 billion,
with Iraq selling crude at an average price of $71.10 a barrel,
according to the statement. The nation earned $4.34 billion from
oil shipments in May, at an average price of $73.85 a barrel.  
 Iraq in June exported 79 percent of its crude, or 43.2
million barrels valued at $3.07 billion, from the southern port
of Basra. It shipped the remaining 11.5 million barrels, earning
$815 million, from the northern oil hub of Kirkuk, according to
the statement.  
 Iraq produces a total of about 2.4 million barrels of oil a
day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Crude exports rose
in May after a three-month decline that Oil Minister  Hussain Al- Shahristani , speaking last month, attributed mainly to foul
weather and insurgent violence.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman 
 Nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        