-- Third Chicago Wal-Mart May Hinge on Retailer Coughing Up More Than Minimum
-- Leslie Patton
-- 2010-07-27T20:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/third-chicago-wal-mart-location-may-face-snag-on-wage-pledge-for-workers.html

          
          
             Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ’s quest to open
a third store in Chicago may hinge on whether the retailer is
promising to pay workers at least 50 cents more than the
Illinois minimum wage.  
 The size of paychecks was at the center of the city
council’s vote last month to approve a second store. Aldermen
and the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union
 said  the retailer committed to $8.75 an hour. Steve Restivo, a
Wal-Mart spokesman, wouldn’t confirm a starting wage as the
retailer pushes to build several dozen Chicago stores.  
 “I am concerned with our willingness to just rush in and
sign off on all these other Wal-Marts,” Alderman Joe Moore said
in a telephone interview. It would be wiser for the city to wait
and see how the second store, on the far south side, affects
surrounding businesses and the neighborhood, he said.  
 Moore said he received a three-page opinion from the city’s
law department today stating that Wal-Mart may have entered into
an oral contract to pay workers more than the state’s $8.25-an-
hour minimum.  
 “It appears they’re saying there’s no written agreement,”
said Moore, who was the sole dissenting vote when the council’s
finance committee last week approved a third store, in the West
Chatham neighborhood.  
 Vote Delay  
 He said he hadn’t decided whether to follow through on his
threat to delay a council vote tomorrow on the Chatham store if
the law department found the $8.75-an-hour wage unenforceable.  
 Restivo has said the  largest U.S. retailer  made no deals on
what to pay workers.  
 “Our goal is to offer a competitive wage,” he said in a
telephone interview.  
 Wal-Mart won approval for the second store on June 30, four
years after opening its first. Prior to the 50-0 vote, several
aldermen raised questions about the Bentonville, Arkansas-based
 retailer’s  stated plans to add stores throughout the nation’s
third-largest city.  
 Two aldermen could delay the Wal-Mart vote with a motion to
defer, Moore said. He said he is “fairly confident” he could
find a colleague to help him stall the vote.  
 The Wal-Mart workers wouldn’t be represented by a union.
The local UFCW declined to disclose what its union grocery
workers make in Chicago.  
 “Yes, there is a wage rate,” Elizabeth Drea, a
spokeswoman for the Chicago-area UFCW, said in a telephone
interview. “But there are also things like paid vacation time,
days off and guaranteed hours.”  
 ‘Wear the Jacket’  
 While Mayor  Richard M. Daley  could approve the Chatham Wal-
Mart himself because of an earlier redevelopment agreement, he
doesn’t want to “wear the jacket” for Wal-Mart’s expansion,
Moore said.  
 “He wants to share it with the rest of the council,”
Moore said.  
 The mayor urged the city council to approve the third Wal-
Mart in a  statement  last week.  
 “These stores can help us build a better future for
neighborhoods and working families in Chicago,” he said. Pete
Scales, a spokesman for the mayor, said it wasn’t known whether
Daley will approve the store if Moore delays the council’s
decision.  
 Retail and food service spending in the U.S. was down 0.5
percent in June, compared with the previous month, according to
the U.S. Census Bureau. Sales at Wal-Mart stores open at least a
year have dropped for four straight quarters.  
 The Chatham store, which would include a full grocery
section, could be ready by 2011,  Howard Brookins , the alderman
for the neighborhood, said in a telephone interview.  
 “With each new store that opens here and every new job
created, Chicago not only moves one step closer towards
returning to economic prosperity, but also sets an example for
other cities that face similar challenges,” Restivo wrote in a
statement released after the finance committee’s approval.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        