-- Israel Trails World Index as Upgrade to Developed Market Forces Out Buyers
-- Ronit Goodman
-- 2010-07-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/israel-trails-world-index-as-upgrade-to-developed-market-forces-out-buyers.html

          
          
             Investors speculating Israel stocks
would benefit after MSCI Inc. raised the country to developed
status two months ago are still waiting for the rally.  
 The  TA-25 Index  is up 1.7 percent since Israel left the
MSCI Emerging Market Index on May 27. That compares with gains
of 4.3 percent in the  MSCI World Index  and 9.6 percent in the
developing-countries gauge, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 While the upgrade spurred optimism as Israel was ranked
alongside the U.S., Germany and Japan by MSCI, it means fewer
funds are paying attention to its companies. Israel accounts for
0.36 percent of the developed country measure, compared with 2.9
percent of the MSCI EM Index. Funds may have been slow to buy
Israeli shares because of its smaller weighting, according to
Delaware Investments, Van Eck Associates and BlackRock Inc.  
 “It became a tiny fish in a much bigger pond,” said  Bruce Schoenfeld , the Boston-based vice president at Delaware
Investments, which manages $135.6 billion. “Because Israel is
such a small weight, it can safely be ignored by portfolio
managers without taking much risk. I’m sure there was also
probably a certain amount of selling on the part of dedicated
active emerging markets investors.”  
 Blackrock Inc.’s $2.8 billion iShares MSCI World Index
exchange-traded fund, which tracks the benchmark gauge, has 0.3
percent allocated to Israel. Buying stocks in smaller countries
may be too costly for index trackers, said  Nizam Hamid , head of
sales strategy for iShares.  
 ‘Cost Effect’  
 “There is a trade-off between having full replication of
the index as opposed to the cost effect,” said Hamid. Smaller
companies may be overlooked to avoid using resources on “stocks
that are unlikely to affect the overall performance,” he said.  
 Robeco Investment Management’s Global Equities fund, which
uses the MSCI as a guide, doesn’t hold any shares in Israel,
according to its latest filing. Rotterdam-based Robeco manages
$194 billion, according to its Web site.  
 “We abandoned Israel stocks after they were promoted,”
said  David Semple , a portfolio manager at New York-based Van
Eck, where he helps manage $22 billion. His emerging-markets
fund has beat 96 percent of its peers in the past year. “There
are a number of interesting companies there, but as they’re off
our index now and don’t appear to have significant upside to
fair valuations, it has not been a focus.”  
 Citigroup Inc. estimated in March that $2.8 billion from
index-tracking funds would pull out when Israel was reclassified
and $3.6 billion would enter. While global funds may use MSCI’s
classification as a guide for where to invest, they are not
always required to duplicate the company’s weightings.  
 First Upgrade  
 Israel was MSCI’s first upgrade since Greece in 2001. The
 Athens Stock Exchange General Index  underperformed the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index by 7 percentage points in the 12 months
following the promotion on May 31 that year.  
 Jacob De Tusch-Lec , whose London-based  Artemis Global
Income  fund was introduced July 19, is “overweight” Israel
stocks.  
 “Israel came through the recession and the big financial
crisis far better than most developed markets yet the country is
trading at rather low relative levels,” said De Tusch-Lec,
whose fund owns shares of  Mizrahi Tefahot Bank Ltd. , Israel’s
third-largest lender, and  Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication Corp. ,
the biggest communications company. “Investors are not giving
the country the credit it is due.”  
 Export Powered  
 Israel’s economy will expand about 3.6 percent this year,
the Finance Ministry said June 6. That’s higher than forecasts
for 3.1 percent growth in the U.S. and 1.1 percent in the euro
area this year, according to median economist estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  
 The TA-25 reached a record on April 6. The benchmark gauge
rose 30 percent in the 12 months following the June 15, 2009,
announcement from MSCI that it would upgrade the country.  
 Stocks in the index trade at  12.4  times estimated earnings
for the next 12 months, 42 percent higher than the  Stoxx Europe
600 Index , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “The guys who follow the emerging markets index say let’s
reduce this allocation because the other guys are going to be
picking this up,” said  Wasif Latif , vice president of equity
investments at USAA Investment Management Co., which oversees
$45 billion in San Antonio. “That generally means that you may
not get the kind of attention and focus from the folks who are
dedicated to your market as you had in the past.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
 Ronit Goodman  in Tel Aviv at 
 rgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        