-- Issa Asks FCIC to Explain Spending After Panel Seeks More Funds
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-07-27T22:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/issa-asks-fcic-to-explain-spending-after-panel-seeks-more-funds.html

          
          
             U.S. Representative  Darrell Issa  is
asking the  Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission  to explain its
spending after the panel probing the 2008 credit market collapse
requested that Congress supplement its $8 million budget.  
 Issa, a California Republican, sent a letter to FCIC
Chairman  Phil Angelides  today, seeking a list of contracts with
media consultants and the amount of money spent on such
services. Issa also asked Angelides, a Democrat who formerly
served as California’s treasurer, to provide a full accounting
of travel expenses by FCIC commissioners and their staffs,
including payments for airfare, lodging and meals.  
 “I am concerned that the FCIC’s own problems with
financial mismanagement and partisanship may have resulted in a
waste of taxpayer funds that does not warrant an additional
appropriation,” wrote Issa, the top Republican on the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee.  
 The FCIC asked for additional funding after determining
that its $8 million budget wouldn’t cover everything it wanted
to do, including electronically publishing documents obtains
from banks, panel spokesman Tucker Warren said in a July 1
interview. The House today approved a $1.8 million increase for
the FCIC as part of a $60 billion spending bill meant to finance
the war in Afghanistan.  
 Issa asked Angelides to respond to his request by Aug. 10.
The FCIC will review Issa’s letter, Warren said today in a
telephone interview.  
 On Loan  
 The FCIC and its 43 full-time employees were paid a total
of $1.4 million as of March 31, according to the commission’s
website. Some employees, on loan from government agencies such
as the Federal Reserve and Securities and Exchange Commission,
aren’t being paid by the panel.  
 Issa also asked what steps the FCIC has taken to limit
conflicts of interest involving commissioners, staff and their
current employers.  
 FCIC Commissioner  Byron Georgiou  and staff investigator
Christopher Seefer have ties to  Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd
LLP , a San Diego-based law firm that represents investors in
suits filed against Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc.  
 Georgiou is listed as of counsel on the law firm’s website.
Seefer is on leave from the firm.  Goldman Sachs  and  Citigroup ,
New York-based banks that got U.S. bailout funds to help weather
the credit crisis, have both been the focus of FCIC hearings.  
 FCIC Executive Director  Wendy Edelberg  is on loan from the
Fed, which was faulted by lawmakers for doing too little to
prevent risky lending before the U.S. mortgage market collapsed
and for a lack of transparency in bank bailouts after the
economy faltered in 2008.  
 Issa, in his letter to Angelides, said it was “troubling”
that Edelberg works for the Fed, considering the central bank’s
“controversial actions during the financial crisis.”  
 Congress approved legislation creating the 10-member FCIC
in May 2009. The panel, which must report its findings by
December, is investigating the role banks and regulators played
in an economic collapse that led to more than $1.78 trillion of
writedowns and credit losses at financial companies worldwide.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        