-- Japan Lifts Beef, Pork Shipment Ban in Miyazaki as Foot-and-Mouth Fades
-- Aya Takada
-- 2010-07-27T05:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/japan-lifts-beef-pork-shipment-ban-in-miyazaki-as-foot-and-mouth-fades.html

          
          
             Japan lifted a ban on beef and pork
shipments from all farms in southern Miyazaki prefecture,
normalizing domestic trade three months after an outbreak of
foot-and-mouth led to the largest cull in the nation’s history.  
 Livestock shipments from the second-largest hog-farming
prefecture can resume, the Miyazaki government said today in a
statement. No cases of the disease have been found in the past
three weeks after about 288,370 animals were culled to contain
it since April 20, when the first case was reported, according
to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries.  
 The resumption will boost meat supply in Japan, potentially
curbing demand for imported pork and beef, as Miyazaki is also
the third-largest farming region for beef cattle. Foot-and-mouth
is one of the most contagious livestock diseases and can have
high mortality rates in young animals, according to the Paris-
based World Organization for Animal Health, or  OIE .  
 “I feel relieved as the situation in Miyazaki has returned
to normal,” Agriculture Minister  Masahiko Yamada  told reporters
in Tokyo today. “We will offer various support for the
prefecture to rebuild livestock farming.”  
 Worst Loss  
 Japan culled a total of 220,034 pigs and 68,314 cattle and
cows to prevent the disease from spreading, said Yusuke Hirata
at the ministry’s animal health division yesterday. It is the
worst loss the nation’s livestock industry has ever sustained,
the ministry said in a statement today.  
 The figures represent 2.2 percent of Japan’s total swine
herd and 1.5 percent of overall cattle and cows. The country’s
first outbreak of the disease since 2000 was reported at a
cattle farm in Tsuno town in eastern Miyazaki.  
 Japan imposed a ban on the movement of livestock that live
within a radius of 10 kilometers from the affected farms. The
government also prohibited shipments of livestock living in a
radius of 10 to 20 kilometers of the disease-hit farms for trade
outside the area.  
 It may take another month before farmers who lost their
livestock can start restoring their herds, as the virus may
still exist in the area, Hirata said.  
 The Miyazaki government also lifted its restrictions on
civil activities, such as holding sports and cultural events, as
the risk of spreading foot-and-mouth disease has waned, Governor
 Hideo Higashikokubaru  said in today’s statement.  
 Disease-Free  
 Japan will seek recognition by the OIE as a country free
from the disease to resume meat exports, said Hirata at the
agriculture ministry. This won’t happen before Oct. 6, as the
OIE requires that there be no reports of disease for at least
three months, he said. The last case of the disease was
discovered on July 4, he said.  
 The country suspended beef and pork exports following the
discovery of the first case. Shipments of wagyu meat, known for
its flavor and tenderness and often priced at a premium to other
cuts, were also halted. The nation exported 676 metric tons of
beef and 2,113 tons of pork in the year ended March 31.  
 Aeon Co ., Japan’s largest supermarket operator, will offer
a three-day promotion for Miyazaki beef, starting July 30, the
company said in a faxed statement today. Aeon will sell about 6
tons of beef at its 207 Jusco and other stores in Japan.  
 Hong Kong and Macau have allowed meat exports from Japan to
resume, except from Miyazaki, Hirata said. Vietnam and the U.S.,
the biggest and third-largest importers of Japanese beef, have
maintained their ban, he said.  
 Meat Market  
 The disease had a limited impact on Japan’s meat markets,
as the affected animals represented a small share of the
nation’s total herd, said Yuichi Imasaki at the ministry’s meat
and egg division.  
 Japan slaughtered 1.31 million hogs in May to produce
100,692 tons of pork, the latest  data  from the agriculture
ministry showed. The number dropped 0.6 percent from a year
earlier, while the volume decreased 0.8 percent.  
 The number of cattle and cows Japan slaughtered in May fell
0.3 percent to 91,689, according to ministry data. Beef
production increased 0.9 percent to 39,366 tons.  
 The country  imported  475,000 tons of beef in the year ended
March 31, climbing 1.2 percent from a year earlier, according to
the ministry. Australia was the biggest supplier with 355,488
tons, while the U.S. was the second largest with 73,823 tons.  
 Japan imported 692,000 tons of pork last fiscal year,
declining 15 percent from a year earlier. The U.S. represented
40 percent of supply, while Canada had 25 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Mike Firn reports on the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in Japan and its potential impact on the nation's cattle import from the U.S.
     Foot-and-mouth is one of the most contagious livestock diseases and can have high mortality rates in young animals, according to the Paris-based World Organization for Animal Health. The disease has spread in Asia in recent months, spurring Japan to cull more than 158,000 animals. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
