-- JFE Buys $1 Billion Stake in JSW Steel to Tap Rising Indian Auto Demand
-- Madelene Pearson
-- 2010-07-27T10:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/jfe-to-buy-1-billion-stake-in-jsw-steel-to-tap-india-s-automobile-demand.html

          
          
             JFE Holdings Inc. , Japan’s second-
largest steelmaker, agreed to buy 48 billion rupees ($1 billion)
of securities in India’s  JSW Steel Ltd.  to tap demand in the
world’s second-fastest growing automobile market.  
 JFE’s steel unit will get a 14.99 percent stake in JSW
Steel, the Tokyo-based company said today in a  statement  on its
website. Nomura Holdings Inc. advised JFE, while Citigroup Inc.
and Amarchand & Mangaldas & Suresh A. Shroff & Co. advised JSW,
the companies said.  
 Buying a stake in India’s third-largest steelmaker gives
JFE access to an automobile market that grew 32 percent in the
first five months of this year, second only to China. Vehicle
demand in Japan may fall 2 percent this fiscal year.  
 “In Japan there’s no growth for steel companies,”  Giriraj Daga , an analyst at Khandwala Securities Ltd., said by phone in
Mumbai. “In India it would be over 10 percent for the next
decade.”  
 JFE Steel’s investment in the Indian partner will exceed
100 billion yen ($1.15 billion) in total,  Shigeru Ogura , vice
president at JFE, said today at a press conference in Tokyo.  
 Shares  of JFE Holdings closed down 3.1 percent to 2,656 yen
in Tokyo. JSW Steel  shares  fell 0.9 percent to 1,160.20 rupees
at the end of trading in Mumbai.  
 Waning Demand  
 “We can no longer count on domestic demand with the
declining number of children,” Ogura said, referring to Japan’s
birth rate. “India is an appropriate market for expansion.”  
 Sales of automobiles in Japan may drop to 5.52 million
units in the 12 months started April 1 from an estimated 5.63
million the previous year, the auto manufacturers association
forecast on March 15.  
 JFE has been asked by Japanese carmakers expanding in India
to supply steel in the country, Ogura said. As part of the
alliance, JFE will help improve operations at JSW’s Vijayanagar
mill, which is close to the factories of automakers, including
Hyundai Motor Co., Tata Motors Ltd., and Nissan Motor Co.  
 The JSW Steel securities will be converted at a minimum
price of 1,331 rupees or a maximum of 1,500 rupees a share,
depending on the share price performance of JSW Steel, the
Mumbai-based company said.  
 More Ventures  
 “The big steel mills globally are trying to get into the
Indian market through acquisitions or by buying stakes,” Goutam
Chakraborty, an analyst with ICICI Securities Ltd. in Mumbai,
said before today’s announcements. “We’re expecting there may
be more of such activity.”  
 JFE’s larger domestic rival  Nippon Steel Corp.  is also
teaming up to sell value-added automotive steel. Nippon Steel
and  Tata Steel Ltd.  will spend as much as 35 billion yen to form
a venture to produce automobile steel in India, the Tokyo-based
company said Jan. 28. The venture will be located at Tata
Steel’s Jamshedpur factory complex in eastern India and will
start operations by March 2013.  
 The deal with JFE will give JSW “cutting-edge” technology
and help access the growing market of automobiles in India, Vice
Chairman  Sajjan Jindal  said. The proceeds will also help ‘de-
leverage” the balance sheet, he said.  
 Earnings  
 JFE Holdings forecast today net income will rise 2.6 times
to 120 billion yen for the year through March 31, 2011, aided by
a demand recovery. The outlook fell short of the 173.8 billion
yen average of 22 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
may increase 20 percent to 3.42 trillion yen.  
 The company had a  profit  of 28 billion yen in the fiscal
first quarter, compared with a loss of 41.6 billion yen a year
earlier, according to a statement today.  
 JSW Steel  today said profit rose 26 percent to 2.95 billion
rupees, or 15.21 rupees a share, in the three months ended June
30 from 2.34 billion rupees, or 12.06 rupees, a year earlier.
Sales climbed 21 percent to 48.20 billion rupees.  
 Total expenses in the quarter rose to 41.40 billion rupees
from 36.40 billion rupees a year earlier, JSW Steel said in a
separate statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange.  
 Coking coal expenses in this quarter have remained high and
the company expects “some respite” in the next quarter, Jindal
said at a media briefing in Mumbai. Iron ore shipments from
JSW’s Chile mines is expected to start in the third quarter, he
said.  
 Construction of JSW Steel’s planned factory in West Bengal
state is expected to start this year, Jindal said. Talks have
yet to start with JFE on the company’s proposed investment in
the factory, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masumi Suga  in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
 Madelene Pearson  in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        