-- U.S. Cities, Counties Poised to Cut 500,000 Jobs, Report Finds
-- William Selway
-- 2010-07-27T16:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/job-cuts-of-500-000-next-year-predicted-for-cities-counties-over-budget.html

          
          
             U.S. local governments may cut
almost 500,000 jobs through next year to cope with sliding
property taxes, a decline in state and federal aid and added
need for social services, according to a report released today.  
 The report, a result of a survey by the National League of
Cities, the U.S. Conference of Mayors and the National
Association of Counties, showed local governments are moving to
cut the equivalent of 8.6 percent of their workforces from 2009
to 2011. That suggests 481,000  employees  will lose their jobs,
according to the report, which said the tally may yet rise.  
 “Local governments across the country are now facing the
combined impact of decreased tax revenues, a falloff in state
and federal aid and increased demand for social services,” said
the study, which was released in Washington today.  
 While a separate report by the National Conference of State
Legislatures today said U.S. state revenue is recovering from
the drop in tax collections caused by the 2007 recession and the
slow pace of job growth since, the greatest blow to local
governments will be felt from now through 2012, the local groups
said.  
 They called on Congress to pass a bill that would provide
$75 billion in the next two years to local governments and
community-based groups to stoke job growth and forestall deeper
cuts.  
 Such a move may face political obstacles. Governors have
appealed to Congress to extend additional aid to cover the cost
of providing health care under Medicaid, the state-run program
for the poor. The proposal stalled in the Senate, where the
Republican minority has raised concern about the size of the
federal deficit.  
 Property Taxes  
 The local groups said their budgets are likely to be hit by
a drop in property taxes, which trail changes in home values
because of the way assessments are calculated. Although prices
 peaked in 2006 , property taxes paid to state and local
governments kept rising until the first three months of this
year, according to  annual totals  compiled by the U.S. Census
Bureau.  
 “Over the next two years, local tax bases will likely
suffer from depressed property values, hard-hit household
incomes and declining consumer spending,” the report said.  
 The need for state and local governments to balance their
budgets has weighed on  the economy , damping the recovery.
Spending fell at an annual pace of 3.8 percent during the first
three months of this year, the steepest drop since the onset of
the recession, according to U.S. Commerce Department. By June,
local governments had cut their payrolls to 14.4 million from
14.6 million, according to the  U.S. Labor Department  data
adjusted to take account of seasonal variations.  
 Distressed Cities  
 The fiscal strains have pushed some local governments into
distress. In 2008, Vallejo, California, filed for bankruptcy
protection. Reading, Pennsylvania, last year sought refuge under
the state’s program for distressed municipalities. This month, a
state appointed receiver took over in Central Falls, Rhode
Island, a cash-strapped town of 19,000.  
 Ron Loveridge , the mayor of Riverside, California, one of
the areas worst affected by home foreclosures, said cities are
struggling to meet the basic needs of their communities, such as
running parks, libraries and fire departments.  
 “For local governments, unemployment and foreclosures
resulting from the Great Recession translate into too few
revenues making it increasingly difficult to fund or
satisfactorily maintain many basic services,” Loveridge, who is
also the president of the National League of Cities, said in a
statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A job seeker waits on hold while calling for unemployment insurance at a Nevada JobConnect career center in Las Vegas. Photographer: Ronda Churchill/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
