-- Kenya's Central Bank May Keep Main Rate Steady for Second Straight Meeting
-- Sarah McGregor
-- 2010-07-27T09:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/kenya-s-central-bank-may-keep-main-rate-steady-for-second-straight-meeting.html

          
          
             Kenya’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged tomorrow for the
second straight meeting, allowing more time for commercial banks
to drop their lending rates.  
 The Monetary Policy Committee, which meets every two
months, will leave the key lending rate at a record low of 6.75
percent, according to three of the four economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  David Cowan , Citigroup’s Africa economist,
forecast a reduction of as much as 1 percentage point. The
Nairobi-based  Central Bank of Kenya  will probably announce the
decision tomorrow afternoon.  
 “The MPC said at its last meeting in May that it would
like more time to see how previous accommodation feeds through
the system,”  Stuart Culverhouse , chief economist at London-
based investment bank Exotix Ltd., said in an e-mailed response
to questions. “More time is needed to make that assessment.”  
 Commercial lenders in  Kenya , East Africa’s biggest economy,
haven’t lowered their borrowing rates in tandem with five cuts
to the benchmark interest rate in Kenya since March 2009. The
average lending rate to businesses and households was 14.39
percent in June, down from 15.1 percent a year earlier,
according to the central bank’s website. Kenyan banks say loans
are costly because the default rate for repayment is high.  
 A decision to leave the key lending rate on hold would be
in line with Kenya’s goal of low inflation,  Razia Khan , Africa
analyst at London-based Standard Chartered Plc, said by e-mail.
Good rainfall from this year has boosted crop production,
helping to slow inflation in Kenya for three of the past four
months, with the rate reaching 3.2 percent in June.  
 Shilling Volatility  
 “Inflation is currently well-behaved, but recent shilling
volatility poses some risk to the outlook,” said Khan.  
 The shilling slumped to the weakest level in six years
versus the dollar in June on speculation that the central bank
was boosting purchases of foreign currency to bolster its
reserves.  
 “The current lows in 91-day T-bills and recent
oversubscription of longer-dated bonds are evidence of still-
ample liquidity levels,” Khan said. “It is doubtful that the
Central Bank of Kenya will want to add to this just yet.”  
 The average yield on Kenya’s 91-day Treasury bills declined
to 1.728 percent on July 15, compared with 8.619 percent in
December 2008, the highest since March 2006 when Bloomberg began
regular record-keeping of the data.  
 The bank may cut rates between half a percentage point to
one percentage point as the risk of inflation accelerating in
the near-term seems minimal, Cowan at Citigroup said in an
interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        