-- Korea's Current-Account Surplus Widens to One-Year High on Global Recovery
-- William Sim
-- 2010-07-28T09:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/korea-s-current-account-surplus-widens-to-one-year-high-on-global-recovery.html

          
          
             South Korea’s current-account
surplus widened to a one-year high in June as the global
recovery supported demand for the country’s cars and
semiconductors.  
 The  windfall  was $5.04 billion, from a revised $3.82
billion in May, the Bank of Korea said in Seoul today. The
current account is the broadest measure of international trade,
tracking goods, services and investment income. The surplus was
the biggest since June 2009.  
 South Korea’s economy grew 1.5 percent in the second
quarter from three months earlier, beating estimates and adding
to evidence that Asia is weathering global risks. Companies from
Samsung Electronics Co. to Hynix Semiconductor Inc. reported
record second-quarter earnings as a weaker won buoyed export
competitiveness.  
 “The key is how well the economy can sustain its growth
momentum amid uncertainties surrounding the global economy,”
 Kwon Young Sun , an economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong
Kong, said before the release. Kwon expects the central bank to
boost the benchmark interest rate 50 basis points to 2.75
percent by year-end as the country’s expansion adds to the case
for higher borrowing costs.  
 The won fell 0.2 percent to close at 1,184.20 per dollar in
Seoul, after strengthening 2.9 percent in the last six days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark  Kospi 
index rose 0.3 percent to 1,773.47.  
 Robust Exports  
 July’s current-account surplus will be similar to June’s on
robust  exports , Lee Young Bog, a central bank official, told
reporters today. The central bank this month forecast a surplus
of $21 billion in 2010, compared with an April estimate of $10.5
billion and a record surplus of $42.7 billion last year.  
 Exports have boosted South Korea’s economic recovery and
contagion from Europe’s debt woes has been “mild,” with gross
domestic product growth likely to approach 6 percent this year,
said  Tom Byrne , a senior vice-president at Moody’s Investors
Service. The outlook for the nation’s A1 government bond rating
remains stable, the company said today.  
 Moody’s increased its rating for Asia’s fourth-largest
economy from A2 in April. South Korea’s economic performance,
continuing gains in governance and regulation, fiscal strength
and “moderate” geopolitical risk from North Korea underpinned
the ratings outlook, Moody’s said.  
 From a year earlier, South Korea’s economy grew 7.2 percent
in the second quarter, slowing from an 8.1 percent jump in the
first quarter that was the biggest gain since 2002, the Bank of
Korea said this week in its latest GDP report.  
 Benchmark Rate  
 The central bank raised the  benchmark rate  on July 9 for
the first time since the global crisis to 2.25 percent from a
record-low 2 percent. Counterparts from Taiwan to Thailand,
Malaysia and India have also boosted rates as price pressures
outweigh concerns about the impact on exports of Europe’s fiscal
woes, elevated U.S. unemployment and a slowdown in China.  
 Total exports on a customs-cleared basis, which excludes
ships, surged 30.1 percent in June from a year earlier, compared
with a revised 40.3 percent increase in May. Imports rose 38.2
percent.  
 The surplus on traded goods widened to $6.35 billion last
month from a revised $4.17 billion in May, today’s report
showed. The services deficit, which measures the flow of travel,
transport costs and royalties, was $1.67 billion in June,
compared with revised $643 million in May. The income account
had a $327 million surplus last month, after a revised $298
million surplus in May.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        