-- Korean Won Rises on Global Economic Recovery Signs; Risk of Intervention
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-07-27T06:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/korean-won-rises-on-global-economic-recovery-signs-risk-of-intervention.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won rose for a sixth
day, the longest winning streak since March, as signs the global
economic recovery is intact spurred demand for riskier assets.  
 The won reached a one-month high after a central bank
report today showed  consumer confidence  this month stayed at the
highest level since January. Foreigners  bought  more shares than
they sold for a fifth day after the U.S. announced a bigger
increase in new home  sales  for June than economists forecast,
brightening the outlook for Korean exports.  
 “The won will continue to strengthen moving forward,”
said  Ha Jun Woo , a foreign-exchange trader at Daegu Bank in
Seoul. “Unless something happens with regards to the European
debt crisis or some geopolitical risk heightens, the won remains
an attractive investment.”  
 The won gained 0.8 percent to close at 1,181.43 per dollar
in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It earlier
touched 1,181.33, the strongest level since June 23. The
currency has weakened 5.6 percent in the past three months,
Asia’s worst performance.  
 Ha said the risk of central bank intervention was limiting
the won’s appreciation. Policy makers can try to influence
exchange rates by buying or selling currencies.  
 South Korea’s economy  expanded  1.5 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three months, faster than the 1.3
percent growth forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists.
Strengthening demand prompted the central bank to lift its
 benchmark interest rate  this month to 2.25 percent, from a
record-low 2 percent, to keep inflation in check.  
 Asia’s fourth-largest economy will expand 5.9 percent this
year following 0.2 percent growth in 2009, the Bank of Korea
said on July 12. The bank forecast that consumer prices will
rise by 2.8 percent this year, revising an April estimate of 2.6
percent.  
 South Korean bonds were little changed, with the yield on
the 3.75 percent note due in June 2013 holding at 3.87 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        