-- Nasdaq OMX Group Rallies to One-Month High After Beating Profit Estimates
-- Nandini Sukumar
-- 2010-07-27T20:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/nasdaq-omx-second-quarter-profit-tops-estimates-as-trading-revenue-climbs.html

          
          
             Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. , the owner of
the second-largest U.S. stock exchange, climbed to the highest
level in more than a month after reporting second-quarter profit
that beat analyst estimates as trading revenue rose.  
 The shares  climbed  2.6 percent to $19.49 at 4 p.m. New York
time, the highest price since June 16. They have dropped 1.7
percent in 2010,  compared  with an 8.7 percent slide in the
 FTSE/Mondo Visione Exchanges Index  that tracks 18 companies.  
 Earnings excluding charges were 52 cents a share, compared
with a 49-cent  average  forecast from 21 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The exchange operator has raised its focus on
derivatives, technology and Europe while cutting some
transaction fees to lure  business  as it faces heightened
competition. Nasdaq, whose stock slumped 16 percent in the
second quarter, has bought back $200 million of its shares since
March and said today it increased the program by $100 million.  
 “The combination of the earnings beat and the upsized
buyback program” drove today’s share gains,  Alex Kramm , an
analyst at UBS AG in New York, wrote in a note to clients.
“Strong industry volumes clearly benefited the company in the
quarter. However, positive pricing trends in the core U.S. cash
equities business also contributed, which could mark a turning
point for the company if sustainable.”  
 Operating Costs  
 Kramm has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  
 Operating expenses for 2010 will be $870 million to $885
million, including $60 million in one-time items, the New York-
based owner of the Nasdaq Stock Market said in a statement
today. Nasdaq took $16 million of charges “related to the
divestiture of businesses, expenses associated with severance,
merger and strategic initiatives, and other non-recurring
items” in the quarter.  
 With the increase to $400 million for the share-buyback
program, Nasdaq can still repurchase $200 million, according to
the statement. Revenue excluding liquidity rebates, brokerage,
clearance and exchange fees climbed 6.3 percent to $390 million,
boosting net income by 39 percent to $96 million.  
 “Overall, a good, revenue-driven beat of consensus and
incrementally positive buyback announcements should help Nasdaq
shares outperform today,”  Ed Ditmire , analyst at Macquarie
Group Ltd., said in a note to clients. There is “likely follow-
through if this leads to an upward bias to consensus.”  
 Market Share  
 The company’s U.S. equity market share slid to 22.8 percent
last quarter from 23.9 percent in the first three months,
according to the statement.  
 Separately today, Nasdaq, which also runs seven Nordic and
Baltic bourses, agreed to buy Smarts Group, an Australian
provider of market surveillance technology, to diversify
revenue. The acquisition of Sydney-based Smarts will likely
close in the third quarter. Terms of the purchase weren’t
disclosed. Smarts is privately held and sells its technology to
exchanges, regulators and brokers.  
 The exchange expects to make about $32 million of revenue
from market technology in the third quarter, Chief Financial
Officer  Adena Friedman  told analysts on a conference call today.  
 Deutsche Boerse AG , Europe’s largest exchange operator by
market value, reported net income of 160.8 million euros ($208.8
million), more than the average of analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. NYSE Euronext, based in New York, issues its second-
quarter report on Aug. 3. The average projection is for 59 cents
a share, excluding some items.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        