-- National Bank of Abu Dhabi Second-Quarter Net Jumps 10.4%, Beats Estimates
-- Vivian Salama
-- 2010-07-27T12:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/national-bank-of-abu-dhabi-second-quarter-net-jumps-10-4-beats-estimates.html

          
          
             National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC 
reported a 10.4 percent rise in second-quarter profit, beating
analysts’ estimates as the United Arab Emirates lender boosted
income from lending and set aside less money for bad loans.  
 Net income rose 1 billion dirhams ($272 million) from 906.5
million dirhams a year earlier, the bank said in an e-mailed
statement today. That exceeded the median estimate of  five
analysts  for a profit of 920 million dirhams, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 “These are a strong set of results in difficult markets
reflecting the resilience and strength of the bank,” Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Tomalin  said in the statement.  
 U.A.E. banks are recovering from the global credit crisis,
which weakened lending and investment banking activity, while
provisions for bad loans are rising amid the economic slowdown.
U.A.E. economic growth may accelerate to 3.2 percent this year,
with oil prices at $85 a barrel, from 1.3 percent in 2009,
Economy Minister  Sultan Bin Saeed al-Mansouri  said in May.  
 Second-quarter net interest  income  advanced 18 percent to
1.2 billion dirhams from a year ago, while free and commission
income grew 4 percent to 304.6 million dirhams, the statement
said. The bank set aside 238.3 million dirhams as impairment
charges compared with 285.9 million dirhams a year earlier.  
 National Bank of Abu Dhabi, the second-biggest lender in
the U.A.E., is “expected to keep on benefiting from a low-risk
profile and a cautious growth strategy to sustain satisfactory
profitability levels,”  Shuaa Capital PSC  said in a report before
the results were announced. The bank last month sold 500 million
ringgit ($156 million) of Islamic bonds in its first offering of
debt in Malaysia.  
 National Bank of Abu Dhabi has no exposure to state-run
Dubai World, the company seeking to alter the terms on $14.4
billion of bank debt, it said in April. It is owed money by
Nakheel PJSC and Limitless LLC, Dubai World’s units.  Emirates
NBD PJSC , the U.A.E.’s biggest bank by assets, reported a 53
percent decline in second-quarter profit yesterday as it set
aside money to cover for bad loans including from Dubai World.  
 National Bank of Abu Dhabi  shares fell 0.5 percent to close
at 11 dirhams before the results were announced. The stock has
dropped 2.4 percent this year, compared with a 5.5 percent drop
in the  ADX Banks & Finance Index.   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net 
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        