-- New Zealand Set to Add to Rate Rise as Inflation Risk Lingers
-- Daniel Petrie
-- 2010-07-27T22:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/new-zealand-is-poised-to-add-to-rate-increase-as-inflation-danger-lingers.html

          
          
             New Zealand will probably raise its
benchmark  interest rate  for a second month to control inflation
in an economy driven by international demand, including China’s
for the nation’s milk, rather than domestic spending.  
 Central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  will increase the
official cash rate by a quarter point to 3 percent at 9 a.m. in
Wellington tomorrow, according to all 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The nation’s currency surged to a six-month high
yesterday as traders bet borrowing costs will keep rising.  
 New Zealand is joining nations from South Korea to India to
Malaysia in removing monetary stimulus as Asia-Pacific economies
recover from the financial crisis and grapple with rising prices.
An  index  based on swaps trading shows there is a 98 percent
chance Bollard will move, even as retail spending and the
housing market remain subdued.  
 “The outlook for an export-led recovery remains in place,
albeit at a slightly more modest pace compared to the bank’s
forecasts in June,” said  Nick Tuffley , chief economist at ASB
Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “The softer growth outlook does not
allow for comfort on the inflation front.”  
 Bollard on June 10 raised the cash rate a quarter point
from a record-low 2.5 percent, the first increase in three years,
and said he expected to gradually remove stimulus as exports
buoy the recovery and inflation pressures build.  
 Exports Surge  
 Exports, which make up 30 percent of the economy, rose to a
record in May with purchases by China, the biggest market for
New Zealand’s dairy products, rising 26 percent from a year
earlier, according to government figures.  
 Even so,  commodity export prices  fell in June, and milk
powder auction prices declined in July for a third month,
according to  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. , the world’s
biggest dairy exporter.  
 Growth across New Zealand’s trading partners is likely to
be revised lower in coming months, said  Darren Gibbs , chief New
Zealand economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Auckland. The
International Monetary Fund this month cut its 2011 growth
forecasts for every Group of Seven industrial nation bar the U.S.  
 “This doesn’t imply a dramatic change in trading partner
outlook, but does imply a modestly less buoyant outlook for New
Zealand’s commodity export prices,” Gibbs said.  
 New Zealand’s ties to Asian markets have underpinned the
currency, which has surged 11.4 percent against the U.S. dollar
in the past year, the best performer of the 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. It reached as high as 73.97 cents
yesterday, the most in more than six months. The currency bought
73.20 U.S. cents at 9:40 a.m. in Wellington.  
 Regional Banks  
 Central banks in the Asia Pacific are responding to growing
demand by removing the low interest rates put in place during
the financial crisis. The  Bank of Korea  raised its benchmark
interest rate a quarter-point to 2.25 percent on July 9. The
same day, Malaysia’s central bank boosted borrowing costs for
the third time this year.  
 The Reserve Bank of India yesterday increased a key
interest rate more than economists forecast, as it battles to
contain a surge in inflation. It raised the reverse repurchase
rate a half point to 4.5 percent, and the repurchase rate to
5.75 percent from 5.5 percent.  
 Australia’s central bank has kept its overnight cash rate
target unchanged at 4.5 percent for the past two meetings, after
raising borrowing costs six times since early October.  
 Bollard’s focus is on keeping  inflation  between 1 percent
and 3 percent as the economy grows and Prime Minister  John Key ’s
policies affect price expectations and wage setting.  
 The government introduced an emissions trading plan
effective July 1, boosting fuel and electricity costs, and from
Oct. 1 the sales tax on all goods and services increases.  
 Price Increases  
 Bollard forecast prices would rise 5.3 percent in the year
ending June 30, 2011, from 1.8 percent a year earlier. Excluding
the one-time events, prices would rise 2.6 percent, he said.  
 New Zealand house sales and core consumer spending declined,
according to recent reports, providing Bollard with scope to
pause during the fourth quarter, some economists say.  
 House sales  fell for a third month in June and it took
longer to sell a property, according to Real Estate Institute
figures published July 14. A separate report showed  retail sales 
excluding vehicles and fuel declined for a second month in May.  
 The governor on June 10 forecast the economy will grow 3.1
percent this year after contracting 1.6 percent in 2009. He
estimated gross domestic product increased 1 percent in the
three months through June.  
 “Soft consumer spending suggests the bank’s second-quarter
growth estimate is too optimistic,” said Deutsche’s Gibbs.
“The economy will return to ‘trend’ a quarter of two later than
had seemed likely earlier this year.”  
 Gibbs expects Bollard will raise rates again in September,
then pause until next year.  
 Traders expect the cash rate will be 4.09 percent in a
year’s time, according to a Credit Suisse  index  based on swaps
trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Alan Bollard, governor of the Reserve Bank of New Zealand, speaks during a news conference at the central bank, in Wellington. Photographer: Mark Coote/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
