-- New York City Police to Increase Mosque Patrols During Ramadan Holiday
-- Chris Dolmetsch
-- 2010-07-27T19:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/new-york-city-police-to-increase-mosque-patrols-during-ramadan-holiday.html

          
          
             The New York City Police Department
will increase foot patrols at mosques during Ramadan, the
Islamic month of fasting that begins in August, as hate crimes
against Muslims have increased from last year.  
 Commissioner  Raymond Kelly , speaking today at the
department’s annual pre-Ramadan  conference  at NYPD headquarters
in Lower Manhattan, said police would increase patrols and
officer visits at mosques. Since 2002, the department has given
guidelines to commanders outlining key principles of Islam and
activities that take place during the  holiday , which starts
Aug. 11 and ends Sept. 9.  
 “I know this is the most sacred time of the year for the
Muslim faith,” Kelly said at the conference, which was attended
by about 400 people including Muslim community leaders. “Our
goal at the department is that you are able to experience it in
safety and in peace.”  
 New York City has more than 100 mosques, compared with 10
in 1970, and more than 800,000 of its 8.21 million residents are
Muslims, said Philip Banks III, chief of the department’s
Community Affairs Bureau.  
 Police will also assign patrol cars to houses of worship
and nearby areas, and deploy additional undercover units to
deter burglars, Kelly said. The city’s Hate Crimes Task Force
also will visit mosques and sites in Lower Manhattan and the
 Sheepshead Bay  section of Brooklyn where mosques have been
proposed, said Michael Osgood, the task force’s commanding
officer.  
 Mosque Proposal  
 A plan to build a mosque and cultural center two blocks
from the site of the World Trade Center, destroyed in the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, has drawn protests. A
Quinnipiac University poll released July 1 found that New
Yorkers, by an almost 2-to-1 ratio, oppose the plan by the
 Cordoba Initiative , a group that seeks to improve Muslim
relations with Western societies.  
 There have been nine hate crimes against Muslims in New
York City this year, compared with five in 2009 and eight in
2008, said Osgood, who urged those attending the conference to
contact police if they have information that can help them solve
such cases.  
 Osgood said the department has recently solved two cases
involving hate crimes against Muslims. They included the arrest
of a man from the New York suburb of Suffolk County on Long
Island for beating and spitting on a man in Queens, New York,
last year and the arrest this year of a Florida man for dumping
three Korans into a Manhattan public toilet.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        