-- New Zealand to Tighten Rules on Farmland Investments, Bill English Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-09-27T03:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/new-zealand-s-review-of-foreign-investment-will-consider-farms-nzpa-says.html
New Zealand tightened rules for
major international purchases of farmland and will now require
buyers to show how an acquisition benefits the nation’s economy.  The measure will allow the government to respond to current
and future concerns about foreign investment, Finance Minister
 Bill English  said today in an e-mailed statement after
concluding a review of foreign investment rules.  The decision came after a backlash against overseas buyers
targeting farmland, as they seek a foothold in the meat and
dairy industries that generate about a third of the nation’s
 exports . A  TV3  poll last month showed 76 percent of respondents
wanted rules toughened following reports a Chinese company
planned to acquire several properties, including the country’s
largest family owned dairy company, Crafar Farms.  “The government decided it should take some measures to
deal with genuine concerns that were raised,” English told
reporters in Wellington. Today’s move “signals to any overseas
investor that where there are significant infrastructure assets,
the New Zealand government will be shining a light on the
transaction,” he said.  In March, Hong Kong-based Natural Dairy (NZ) Holdings Ltd.
said it was in talks to buy as many as 24 more farms. Crafar had
appointed administrators in October last year.  English said the government expects more properties to come
onto the market at a time when credit is tight, limiting the
prospects for local buyers.  Bollard Comments  Central bank governor  Alan Bollard  told Agence France-
Presse that New Zealand needed to carefully manage its relations
with China.  “I’m talking about export of primary product and the
extent to which it’s processed in New Zealand and owned in New
Zealand, or not,” AFP cited Bollard as saying. “The story in
some commodity areas is that already processing is moving to
China. There are questions about how much of that is inevitable
and how much isn’t and can be done in New Zealand.  “That also relates to commercial relationships with
China,” he said, according to the news agency.  As well as the “economic interest” test, the government
will also introduce a “mitigating factor” measure to determine
whether the investment provides opportunities for New Zealand
oversight, such as establishing a head office in the country.  Ministerial Directive  The government will send the Overseas Investment Office a
ministerial directive to clarify policy on purchases of so-
called sensitive land, which includes areas adjoining the coast
or conservation areas.  Last year, the government made changes to speed up
processing of foreign investment and announced a review of the
Overseas Investment Act, aimed at making it easier for local
companies to access funding.  It decided to leave the Act unchanged, English said today.
That includes retaining the strategic asset test, which the
government had planned to replace, as it will enhance the power
of ministers to deal with applications. The test was introduced
by the previous administration and used to block the foreign
purchase of  Auckland International Airport Ltd.  in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  