-- LNG Demand May Turn Australia Into `Qatar of the Pacific,' Bernstein Says
-- James Paton
-- 2010-07-27T08:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/lng-demand-may-turn-australia-into-qatar-of-the-pacific-bernstein-says.html

          
          
             Australian liquefied natural gas
projects are poised to benefit from surging demand in Asian
markets, making the country the “Qatar of the Pacific” in the
next decade, research firm Sanford C. Bernstein said.  
 China, India, Thailand and Singapore are set to drive
consumption of the fuel, along with nations in the Middle East
and South America, and supply is likely to grow slowly,  Neil Beveridge , a Bernstein analyst in Hong Kong, wrote in a report
today. Australia will account for about 60 percent of new global
LNG production capacity added in the next five years, he said.  
 “While a slower economic recovery and large overhang of
global LNG capacity may leave some investors feeling cautious on
LNG, we remain bullish,” Beveridge said. Even as an increase in
“unconventional” gas production in China and Europe may pose a
threat to projects, “it will still be some time before this new
source of gas makes its presence felt in the supply mix.”  
 Australia is likely to challenge Qatar as the world’s
largest LNG exporter, according to Beveridge. Worldwide LNG
consumption may increase to 300 million metric tons a year in
2015 from 180 million tons in 2009, he said in his report.  
 “This makes the market window for the start up of new
projects in 2014-2015 attractive in our view and strongly
supports our positive outlook on Australian LNG.”  
 Woodside, BG  
 Coal-seam gas-to-LNG projects proposed by  BG Group Plc  and
Santos Ltd. in Queensland state and the Pluto LNG expansion
planned by  Woodside Petroleum Ltd.  in Western Australia will
likely be the next to gain approvals from the companies, he said.  
 “Expanding energy demand creates a great opportunity for
Australia’s natural gas industry,”  Matthew Doman , a Santos
spokesman in Adelaide, said by phone. “In terms of the size of
our resources and proximity to the market and given our track
record of delivery, Australia is very well placed.”  
 Mark Todd, a spokesman for BG’s Australian unit in Brisbane,
referred questions to the parent company’s headquarters in
Reading, England.  Roger Martin , a spokesman for Woodside in
Perth, declined in an e-mail to comment on the report.  
 “Strong” growth is expected in China, where LNG demand
may reach 46 million tons a year in 2020, Wood Mackenzie
Consultants Ltd. said yesterday. That compared with its prior
estimate of 31 million tons a year. Even so, some suppliers may
have limited opportunity to obtain customers in China because of
an increase in domestic development of unconventional gas found
in rocks and coalfields, according to the report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        