-- Nissan Says Leaf Electric Car's Battery Will Come With Eight-Year Warranty
-- Alan Ohnsman
-- 2010-07-27T21:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/nissan-says-leaf-electric-car-s-battery-will-come-with-eight-year-warranty.html

          
          
             Nissan Motor Co. , seeking to be the
world’s biggest producer of electric vehicles, said lithium-ion
battery packs on its rechargeable Leaf hatchback will have an
eight-year warranty.  
 Customer concerns that electric cars may not be as reliable
as gasoline-engine autos led the Yokohama, Japan-based company
to set the warranty at eight years or 100,000 miles on the
first-generation Leaf powertrain,  Carlos Tavares , Nissan’s
executive vice president and head of operations in the Americas,
said today at a conference in San Jose, California.  
 “We have a warranty that is matching market standards,”
Tavares said in an interview. “We checked that those were
matching the customers’ expectations through market research.”  
 Nissan, Japan’s third-largest automaker, plans to sell as
many as 25,000 units of the $32,780 Leaf in the U.S. during the
model’s first year, following its introduction late this year.
Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  has set a goal of expanding
battery and electric vehicle production to as many as 500,000
vehicles by the end of 2012.  
 The durability of lithium-ion batteries hasn’t been proven
yet as vehicles that use them are just beginning to come to
market this year.  
 Profitability  
 About 17,000 U.S. consumers have paid $99 to reserve one of
the initial models, Nissan said today.  
 The price for the car, which the company says will go 100
miles (160 kilometers) per charge, will eventually allow the
Leaf to be profitable even with its new battery technology and
electronics, Tavares said.  
 “We’re not going in this strategic direction because we
just want to test the water,” Tavares said. Nissan’s plan is
for the Leaf to be “as profitable as a conventional vehicle,”
he said.  
 Tavares also said today that initial deliveries of the Leaf
will begin in December for customers in California, Oregon,
Washington, Arizona and Tennessee. The model is to be sold next
in Hawaii and Texas, with availability across the U.S. expected
by the end of 2011, he said.  
 Nissan’s North American operations are based in Franklin,
Tennessee.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        