-- Noda Silent on Yen Even as Appreciation Clouds Threatens Japan's Recovery
-- Toru Fujioka
-- 2010-07-27T05:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/noda-silent-on-currency-even-as-yen-s-climb-clouds-japan-economic-outlook.html

          
          
             Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has refrained from commenting on the yen’s advance,
departing from his predecessor’s attempts to curb volatility by
speaking about movements in foreign-exchange markets.  
 When asked by reporters today about the currency, which has
hovered near a seven-month high against the dollar since the
European bank stress tests, Noda declined to comment other than
to say that investors welcomed the results of the examination.
He was also silent on the currency last week, even as fellow
Cabinet ministers warned the movements could destabilize growth.  
 Noda’s silence sets him apart from his predecessor  Naoto Kan , who weakened the yen in his first day of office by telling
reporters he wanted it to drop “a bit more.” The currency’s
advance has been driven by its appeal as a relatively safe asset
and talking it down may do little to reverse the trend,
according to economist  Masamichi Adachi .  
 “Noda is aware that any attempts may be in vain,” said
Adachi, a senior economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo.  
 Noda’s colleagues have expressed concern about the
currency’s advance, with Trade Minister  Masayuki Naoshima  saying
last week the gains pose a risk to growth and  Keisuke Tsumura , a
parliamentary secretary at the Cabinet Office, describing the
level as “a bit too high.”  
 Refraining from discussing the currency is also in contrast
from the ruling Democratic Party of Japan’s first finance chief
 Hirohisa Fujii , who said in September that market intervention
can “destroy a free economy.” Noda has been finance chief
since Kan became prime minister in June.  
 Six-Year Record  
 Some analysts say the Finance Ministry may preserve its
six-year record of staying out of currency markets even though
the yen has advanced 7.2 percent per dollar and 8.6 percent
against the euro in the past three months. The yen traded at
86.99 per dollar at 2:30 p.m. in Tokyo, close to a seven-month
high of 86.27.  
 Group of Seven members have refrained from coordinated
intervention for almost a decade, since an effort in 2000 to
buttress the euro.  
 Japanese officials will be reluctant to intervene to weaken
the yen as long as U.S. policy makers continue to press China to
let its currency appreciate, said  Mansoor Mohi-uddin , chief
currency strategist at UBS AG in Singapore.  
 The Japanese Finance Ministry “has not been vocal about
recent foreign exchange developments, as it has in the past
before intervening,” Singapore-based Mohi-uddin wrote in a note
published today. “The prospects for Japanese action to weaken
the yen still appear low.”  
 ‘Abnormal’  
 Gains in the currency can erode exporters’ profits when
they are repatriated.  Koji Miyahara , chairman of Nippon Yusen
K.K., Japan’s biggest shipping line, this month described the
yen’s current level as “abnormal.”  
 “If the yen appreciates significantly, we may see
government officials voice their concerns,” said  Tohru Sasaki ,
chief strategist in Tokyo at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and former
head currency trader at the Bank of Japan. “They won’t resort
to intervention because the yen’s gain isn’t being driven by
speculation.”  
 Not everyone is willing to rule government action out.
Analysts including  Makoto Noji  at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo
say Noda may be compelled to change his strategy should the yen
approach the 14-year high of 84.83 set last November, increasing
the risk a stronger currency will derail the country’s export-
led rebound.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        