-- Nuveen Trustees Sued by Investors Over Auction-Rate Securities Redemptions
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-07-27T23:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/nuveen-trustees-sued-by-investors-over-auction-rate-securities-redemptions.html

          
          
             Nuveen Investments Inc. , the largest
manager of closed-end funds, was sued for allegedly harming one
group of investors by buying out others caught in the 2008
collapse of the auction-rate market.  
 Nuveen, as well as fund trustees, hurt the common
shareholders of closed-end funds by redeeming the funds’ auction
rate preferred shares at par, according to a complaint filed
today in an Illinois state court in Chicago.  
 “The funds have no obligation to redeem the ARPs at
liquidation value,” the shareholders said in the filing.
“Liquidation value is the equivalent of full value.”  
 The auction-rate market collapsed in February 2008 during
the early stages of the credit crisis, leaving preferred
shareholders frozen. Nuveen has since redeemed 57 percent of its
$15.4 billion in outstanding preferred shares by replacing them
with various forms of financing.  
 BlackRock Advisors LLC, a unit of New York-based  BlackRock
Inc. , was sued separately today in state court in Manhattan in a
similar case. The lawsuits are the first on behalf of common
shareholders over the ARS market’s failure.  
 Closed-end funds used to sell preferred shares on the
auction-rate market to increase the amount of money they could
invest by as much as 50 percent, boosting returns for common
shareholders. Nuveen, which managed $145 billion as of Dec. 31,
is a unit of Chicago-based private-equity firm Madison Dearborn
Partners LLC.  
 Kathleen Cardoza , a Nuveen spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return calls for comment on the suit. The investors seek a court
order barring the firm from further par value redemptions using
trust assets, as well as unspecified money damages.  
 BlackRock Sued  
 As in Nuveen case, BlackRock Advisors shareholders are
suing in the name of funds in which they invested.    BlackRock
fund trustees, too, are accused of overpaying on the redemption
of auction-rate preferred securities and other instruments, to
the detriment of common shareholders.  
 Bobbie Collins , a spokeswoman for BlackRock, declined to
comment on the case, which seeks unspecified money damages.  
 Closed-end funds had about $64 billion in outstanding
preferred shares when the auction-rate market froze. About $39.9
billion have since been redeemed by fund sponsors such as
Nuveen, BlackRock and Boston’s Eaton Vance Corp., according to
 Cecilia Gondor , a closed-end fund analyst at Thomas J. Herzfeld
Advisors Inc. in Miami.  
 Forced Buybacks  
 Federal and state regulators, acting to free up preferred
shareholders, also forced broker-dealers who marketed auction-
rate securities as highly liquid, low-risk investments, to buy
back more than $50 billion of the securities. Those companies
included Citigroup Inc., UBS AG and Oppenheimer Holdings Inc.  
 The shareholders’ lawsuits center on the cost of financing
that closed-end funds have paid for leverage. They allege that
the fund companies were under no obligation to buy out the
frozen preferred shares, and that the replacement financing they
secured has proved more expensive.  
 “The fund companies felt they had an obligation to balance
the interests of the preferred and common shareholders,” Gondor
said in a telephone interview. “Hindsight is 20-20, but it was
an extremely difficult situation.”  
 The Nuveen case is Safier v. Nuveen Asset Management,
10ch32166, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court, Chancery
Division (Chicago). The BlackRock case is Curbow v. Blackrock
Advisors LLC, 651104-2010, New York Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        