-- Obama to Hold Aug. 17 Housing Conference on Ways to Repair Fannie, Freddie
-- Ian Katz
-- 2010-07-27T16:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/obama-to-hold-aug-17-housing-conference-on-ways-to-repair-fannie-freddie.html

          
          
             The Obama administration plans an
Aug. 17 conference to discuss ways to fix the country’s
“broken” housing-finance system and intends to submit a
proposal by January to overhaul Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  
 “The future of our housing-finance system is critical not
only to our economic recovery, but also to millions of American
homeowners in every corner of our country,” Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  said today in a statement released in
Washington.  
 Falling home  prices , together with easy availability of
credit and government policies promoting homeownership, pushed
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to the brink of collapse in 2008. The
Treasury seized them in September of that year and has spent
$145 billion so far to keep them solvent.  
 The administration wants a “comprehensive reform proposal
that protects taxpayers, institutes tough oversight, restores
the long-term health of our housing market, and strengthens our
nation’s economic recovery,” he said.  
 In April, Treasury and the Department of Housing and Urban
Development asked for public comment on how to fix the system.  
 In a separate statement,  Jeffrey Goldstein , the Treasury’s
undersecretary for domestic finance, said Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac have been  “tightly supervised  and regulated” since they
went into government conservatorship two years ago. The two
mortgage-finance companies have made “significant progress in
improving the credit quality” of their new obligations,
Goldstein said.  
 Private Sector  
 The review of the housing system will include Fannie Mae,
Freddie Mac, the Federal Housing Administration, Ginnie Mae, the
Federal Home Loan Banks and a “significant private sector
role” in originating, funding and servicing mortgages,
Goldstein said.  
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac guarantee more than $5 trillion
in mortgages and hold $1.6 trillion in agency loans and other
securities in their portfolios, Goldstein said. Created by the
government to expand mortgage financing and encourage home
ownership, the two companies will undergo “responsible reform”
that will likely mean a different government role in housing, he
said.  
 “For decades, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac privatized their
profits while ultimately putting taxpayers at risk for losses,”
Goldstein said. “This type of ‘heads private shareholders win,
tails taxpayers lose’ system of misaligned incentives makes no
sense for the nation.”  
 ‘Only Game’  
 Private capital hasn’t returned to the housing market, with
Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other government entities
guaranteeing more than 90 percent of new mortgages, Goldstein
said. “They are practically the only game in town,” he said.  
 After reaching a record high of 69.2 percent in the second
quarter of 2004,  U.S. home ownership  fell last quarter to 66.9
percent, the lowest level since 1999, according to Commerce
Department figures released today.  
 U.S. Representative  Michelle Bachmann , a Minnesota
Republican and member of the House Financial Services Committee,
said a “reasonable compromise” can be reached on housing
finance.  
 “But we can’t have Uncle Sam be everyone’s mortgage
banker,” she said in an interview today. “To nationalize
housing would mean we’ll have a scarcity, ultimately, of
housing, and it will guarantee that it’s far more expensive than
it has to be.”  
 Home prices in 20 U.S. cities rose more than forecast in
May from a year earlier as a government tax credit temporarily
underpinned sales, a report showed earlier today. The S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values increased 4.6 percent from May
2009, the biggest year-over-year gain since August 2006, the
group said today in New York.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “The future of our housing-finance system is critical not only to our economic recovery, but also to millions of American homeowners in every corner of our country,” Treasury Secretary
Timothy Geithner said in a statement. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Karl Case, an economics professor at Wellesley College and co-creator of the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index, discusses the U.S. housing market.
     The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values increased 4.6 percent in May from the same month a year ago, marking the biggest year-over-year gain since August 2006, the group said today in New York. Case talks with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt on Bloomberg Radio's "Bloomberg Surveillance" (This report is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
