-- Obama Presses Congress to Act on Business, Energy
-- Kate Andersen Brower
-- 2010-07-27T17:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/obama-presses-congress-to-move-ahead-on-initiatives-to-help-small-business.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  made a direct
appeal to Democratic and Republican congressional leaders to
push forward on initiatives to help small businesses.  
 Obama also sought to put pressure on lawmakers to act on
energy legislation and complete work on a $60 billion spending
bill to fund operations in Afghanistan and provide financial aid
to states before lawmakers leave Washington for the August
recess and campaigns for the November elections gear up.  
 “It’s during this time that the noise and the chatter
about who’s up in the polls and which party’s ahead threatens to
drown out just about everything else,” Obama said at the White
House.  
 The president met for more than an hour with Democrats
 Nancy Pelosi  of California, the speaker of the House of
Representatives,  Harry Reid  of Nevada, the Senate majority
leader, the Senate’s top Republican,  Mitch McConnell  of
Kentucky, and House Minority Leader  John Boehner  of Ohio.  
 The focus of the discussion, he said, was “how do we
create jobs.” The administration and Congress must do
“everything we can to support small businesses,” he said.  
 Incentives for Business  
 Obama has called for the elimination of some capital gains
taxes on investments, new tax credits and the creation of a fund
to help community banks offer small business loans.  
 “These are the kind of common-sense steps that folks from
both parties have supported in the past,” Obama said. “We
shouldn’t let America’s small business be held hostage to
partisan politics.”  
 Aid for small businesses has been a focus of Obama’s
attempts to encourage job growth. The nation’s unemployment rate
fell to 9.5 percent June. The president’s budget team forecasts
it will average 9.7 percent through the year and 9 percent next
year as the economy pulls out of the worst recession since the
1930s.  
 A version of the legislation has been approved by the House
of Representatives yet hasn’t come up for a vote in the Senate.
The House leaves for its August recess at the end of this week
and the Senate on Aug. 6.  
 Afghanistan  
 Obama also said he is concerned about the disclosure of
classified reports about the war in Afghanistan, while saying
the revelations “don’t reveal any issues that haven’t already
informed our public debate.”  
 Some 92,000 pages of classified reports covering 2004
through 2009 were disclosed July 25 by the website Wikileaks.
Obama announced a revised strategy for the war in December 2009
and administration officials said information about suspicions
that Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate helped
the Taliban and other Islamic rebels and the impact of civilian
deaths were taken into account in the new war plan.  
 On energy, Obama said he will continue pressing for
comprehensive legislation that also addresses climate change. In
the face of Republican opposition, Senate Democrats are scaling
back energy legislation to drop a cap-and-trade program to
restrict carbon pollution and a requirement that utilities buy
more electricity from renewable sources.  
 Reid has said he will offer legislation to overhaul
offshore drilling rules in response to the  BP Plc  oil spill, and
establish household energy-efficiency programs and incentives
for natural-gas-fueled vehicles.  
 Obama said that while that measure moves the nation’s
energy policy in the right direction, “I want to emphasize that
it’s only the first step.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     President Barack Obama delivers a statement in the Rose Garden of the White House. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
