-- Occidental's Phibro Energy-Trading Business Posts Loss on `Lousy Results'
-- Edward Klump
-- 2010-07-27T20:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/occidental-s-phibro-energy-trading-business-posts-loss-on-lousy-results-.html

          
          
             Occidental Petroleum Corp. , the
largest oil producer in Texas, said its Phibro energy-trading
business acquired from Citigroup Inc. last year had a $104
million loss in the second quarter.  
 The loss was incurred as  Occidental  adjusted its valuation
of Phibro’s holdings to reflect market prices at the end of the
quarter, Chief Financial Officer  Stephen I. Chazen  told
investors today on a conference call.  
 Chazen said  Occidental  has made changes to try to reduce
volatility in the trading business. When the company agreed in
October to buy Phibro for $250 million, Occidental said it
wouldn’t alter the trading model of Phibro’s  Andrew J. Hall .  
 “You can’t say that his trading results in the quarter
were anything but lousy,” Chazen said.  
 Occidental fell $2.98, or 3.6 percent, to $79.94 as of the
4 p.m. close of New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
 stock  had climbed 1.9 percent this year before today.  
 After receiving a taxpayer-funded bailout,  Citigroup 
approached Occidental about selling Phibro amid controversy over
Hall’s $100 million, 2008 compensation package. The purchase
price was equal to Phibro’s current assets minus liabilities at
the time. Phibro generated average pretax profit of $371 million
the past five years.  
 Phibro’s management has interests in the business and is
“feeling the pain disproportionately” from the loss, Chazen
said.  
 Earlier today,  Occidental  said its second-quarter net
income climbed 56 percent to $1.1 billion, or $1.31 a share,
from $682 million, or 84 cents, a year earlier. Per-share profit
was 4 cents below the average of 16 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        