-- Offshore Drilling, UBS, Vivendi, Chrysler, Blagojevich, Icahn: Court News
-- Ellen Rosen
-- 2010-07-27T12:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/offshore-drilling-ubs-vivendi-chrysler-blagojevich-icahn-court-news.html

          
          
             Opponents of a U.S. ban on deepwater
drilling asked a federal appeals court to block a bid by
regulators to throw out a judge’s ruling that scrapped the
moratorium.  
 Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  previously asked the
U.S. appellate court and a lower-court judge, both located in
New Orleans, to dismiss the lawsuit by  Hornbeck Offshore
Services Inc.  and other oil-service companies. The U.S. claims
the lawsuit was rendered irrelevant by newer drilling suspension
rules announced July 12.  
 The industry suit remains necessary because drilling hasn’t
resumed in the Gulf of Mexico in the wake of the second
moratorium, lawyers for Hornbeck said yesterday. Drill ban
opponents including Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal  claim the
moratorium is turning an environmental disaster into an economic
catastrophe.  
 “The July 12 order reimposes the same basic blanket, one-
size-fits-all prohibition as the original moratorium,”  Carl Rosenblum , Hornbeck’s attorney, said in a filing yesterday. “It
prevents all deep-water drilling, treating the industry leader
and the industry laggard exactly the same.”  
 U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  in New Orleans on June
22 threw out the six-month ban imposed by federal regulators on
oil and gas drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet, finding it
was too broad. A three-judge panel of the 5th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals in New Orleans on July 8 refused a request by
regulators’ to put Feldman’s order on hold while the government
appeals.  
 Salazar issued a revised ban on July 12 that may allow new
wells if the industry shows it has strengthened safety
standards. The government asked both courts to dismiss the
Hornbeck lawsuit and asked the appeals court to vacate, or
erase, Feldman’s decision.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 UBS’s Igor Poteroba Pleads Not Guilty to Insider Trading Scheme  
 UBS AG  investment banker  Igor Poteroba , charged with taking
in almost $1 million for tipping friends to potential mergers,
pleaded not guilty to insider trading charges.  
 Poteroba, a former investment banker at  UBS Securities
LLC’s  Global Healthcare Group in New York, was charged and
arrested in March along with Alexi Koval, a Chicago man who
allegedly traded on the information. Poteroba is accused of
leaking merger tips to potential mergers and acquisitions
involving six public companies to Koval and an unnamed third
person.  
 Poteroba pleaded not guilty yesterday in a hearing before
U.S. Magistrate Judge  Andrew Peck  in Manhattan and waived his
right to be charged in an indictment. At his bail hearing in
March, prosecutors said Poteroba had admitted he was trading on
inside information as late as that month.  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney Marissa Mole told Peck she expects
that both sides will “discuss possible resolution of this
case.”  
 A federal judge in New York on March 25 set Poteroba’s bail
at $5 million. He remains in custody.  
 Prosecutors said the participants in the scheme with
Poteroba, an executive director at UBS, used code words such as
“frequent flyer miles” and references to a Macy’s wedding
registry. The inside information, according to prosecutors, was
connected to mergers or acquisitions involving Guilford
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Molecular Devices Corporation, PharmaNet
Development Group, Inc., Via Cell, Inc., Millennium
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Indevus Pharmaceuticals.  
 The SEC has filed a civil suit against Poteroba, Koval and
Alexander Vorobiev who now lives in Russia. All three are
Russian citizens, according to the SEC.  
 For more, click here.  
 Rambus Wins Patent Fight Against Nvidia in ITC Ruling  
 Rambus Inc. , a seller of technology used in computer
memory, won its patent-infringement fight against  Nvidia Corp. 
over imports of computer-graphics chips.  
 Nvidia violated Rambus’s patent rights, the U.S.
International Trade Commission in Washington said in a  decision 
on its website yesterday. The ITC said an order should be issued
to ban imports of some products containing Nvidia chips, a move
that would be subject to review by U.S. President  Barack Obama .  
 Rambus  jumped as much as 18 percent to $23.19 in extended
trading in New York.  Nvidia  rose about 1 percent.  
 Rambus, which got about  96 percent  of its $113 million in
revenue last year from patent licensing royalties, filed the
complaint against Nvidia after the two were unable to reach a
licensing agreement. Rambus, based in Los Altos, California, has
spent more than a decade  suing  computer-memory chipmakers who
refused licensing deals, including Samsung Electronics Co.  
 “It puts Rambus in the dominant bargaining position,”
 Jeff Schreiner , an analyst for Capstone Investments Inc. in San
Diego, said in an interview. “A whole bunch of other companies
that were watching this will now likely sign licensing deals.”  
 Schreiner has a “strong buy” rating on Rambus stock,
which he said he doesn’t own.  
 Nvidia Corp agreed to license Rambus Inc.’s technology
while it appeals the ruling by the U.S. International Trade
Commission.The ITC ruling will have no impact on customers,
Nvidia said in a statement yesterday.  
 Samsung in January agreed to pay $900 million to end its
legal dispute with Rambus and sign a new licensing deal. The
commission said in a May 27 order that it wanted to determine if
Nvidia was protected by the Samsung settlement or if Rambus
exhausted its rights on the technology. Rambus also has disputes
pending with Korea’s  Hynix Semiconductor Inc.  and  Micron
Technology Inc. , based in Boise, Idaho, over patented technology
related to dynamic-random access memory, or DRAM, which acts as
the main type of memory in personal computers.  
 The ITC case is In The Matter of Semiconductor Chips Having
Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory Controllers and
Products Containing Same, 337-661, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  
 For more, click here.  
 Carlos Slim Barred From Acquiring Televisa Unit’s Debt  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  can’t transfer a loan obligation of
Grupo Televisa SA’s cable unit to a bank controlled by
billionaire  Carlos Slim , a federal judge said.  
 A federal judge in New York in February initially halted
the transfer after  Empresas Cablevision SA  complained that
assigning the loan to Slim’s Banco Inbursa SA might reveal
Cablevision’s confidential information to a rival cable company
owned by Slim. JPMorgan then complained Empresas Cablevision
breached a credit agreement.  
 The parties agreed to the order after JPMorgan said it
would repurchase from Inbursa the 90 percent interest in the
loan, Televisa said yesterday in a statement. U.S. District
Judge  Jed Rakoff , in the order dated July 23, also barred
JPMorgan from sharing information with Inbursa regarding private
information received from Cablevision related to the loan.  
 “It is an important decision both for the enforcement of
borrower’s veto rights under credit agreements and for requiring
financial services institutions to act responsibly on behalf of
their customers,”  Salvi Folch , chief financial officer of
Televisa, said in a statement.  
 A spokeswoman for Slim didn’t immediately return phone and
e-mail messages.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for JPMorgan,
declined to comment.  
 The case is Empresas Cablevision v. JPMorgan, 09-9972, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 UBS’s Igor Poteroba Pleads Not Guilty to Insider Trading Scheme  
 UBS AG  investment banker  Igor Poteroba , charged with taking
in almost $1 million for tipping friends to potential mergers,
pleaded not guilty to insider trading charges.  
 Poteroba, a former investment banker at  UBS Securities
LLC’s  Global Healthcare Group in New York, was charged and
arrested in March along with Alexi Koval, a Chicago man who
allegedly traded on the information. Poteroba is accused of
leaking merger tips to potential mergers and acquisitions
involving six public companies to Koval and an unnamed third
person.  
 Poteroba pleaded not guilty yesterday in a hearing before
U.S. Magistrate Judge  Andrew Peck  in Manhattan and waived his
right to be charged in an indictment. At his bail hearing in
March, prosecutors said Poteroba had admitted he was trading on
inside information as late as that month.  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney Marissa Mole told Peck she expects
that both sides will “discuss possible resolution of this
case.”  
 A federal judge in New York on March 25 set Poteroba’s bail
at $5 million. He remains in custody.  
 Prosecutors said the participants in the scheme with
Poteroba, an executive director at UBS, used code words such as
“frequent flyer miles” and references to a Macy’s wedding
registry. The inside information, according to prosecutors, was
connected to mergers or acquisitions involving Guilford
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Molecular Devices Corporation, PharmaNet
Development Group, Inc., Via Cell, Inc., Millennium
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Indevus Pharmaceuticals.  
 The SEC has filed a civil suit against Poteroba, Koval and
Alexander Vorobiev who now lives in Russia. All three are
Russian citizens, according to the SEC.  
 The case is U.S. v. Poteroba, 10-mag-00562, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Judge Upholds $26 Million Verdict Over Tire Copyright  
 A federal judge in Virginia confirmed a $26 million jury
award to an inventor who alleged that companies in China and
Dubai infringed his copyright for designs of rubber tires used
on underground mining vehicles.  
 U.S. District Judge  T.S. Ellis  confirmed the jury’s award
to inventor Jordan Fishman and his companies against Shandong
Linglong Rubber Co. Ltd. of China and Dubai-based Al Dobowi Tyre
Co. LLC, according to a document filed in Alexandria, Virginia,
July 21.  
 “It appears that the jury reduced the award by over 25
percent from plaintiffs’ request, and this reduction appears to
correlate to the percentage of infringing sales that likely
occurred outside the copyright infringement limitations
period,” Ellis said in his ruling.  
 Fishman charged that the companies infringed his blueprints
for the asymmetrical tires used in mines after the prints had
been stolen by a former employee. He was represented by
Washington-based Gilbert LLP.  
 Cantor and Drummond in Talks to Settle U.K. CantorCO2e Lawsuit  
 Cantor Fitzgerald LP and the former head of its carbon
credits brokerage are in discussions to settle a lawsuit
involving a $2 million loan and an unfair dismissal claim.  
 Judge  Michael Burton  agreed to a request from the parties
to halt the week-old trial in London until today, according to a
court official.  
 Cantor is suing Stephen Drummond, a former executive at
 CantorCO2e , in London for the return of the money it says it
loaned him while he was running the unit. Drummond countersued,
claiming he was wrongfully dismissed in 2009 for failing to tell
the company he was in talks with a competitor about a job.  
 Cantor will give “an appropriate statement at the
appropriate time,” the company said in an e-mail. Both Drummond
and his law firm, Fladgate LLP, declined to comment.  
 Vivendi Says High Court Ruling Limits Fraud Damages  
 Vivendi SA , the Paris-based owner of the world’s largest
music company, told a federal judge in New York yesterday that
the $9.3 billion damages sought by shareholders must be cut
because of a U.S. Supreme Court ruling.  
 A Manhattan federal court jury sided with investors in
January after a fraud trial, concluding that Vivendi acted
recklessly and inflated its shares. The jury found that Paris-
based Vivendi misled shareholders 57 times from 2000 to 2002
with upbeat statements that hid a liquidity crisis. The judge
must eventually determine the amount to be awarded.  
 The U.S. Supreme Court ruled June 24 in an unrelated case
that federal securities laws don’t protect foreign investors who
buy stocks of non-U.S. companies on overseas exchanges. Vivendi
argued that the Manhattan trial judge should apply that ruling
and limit the size of the class of plaintiffs. From 2000 to
2002, Americans held only 25 percent of Vivendi’s ordinary
shares, according to the company.  
 For more, click here.  
 Chrysler Wins 70% of Cases as Dealer Arbitration Ends  
 Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S. automaker run by  Fiat SpA ,
said arbitrators ruled in its favor in 70 percent of cases
brought by dealers who sought reinstatement after the company
cut them from its network.  
 The arbitration process has concluded, and the company
prevailed in 76 of 108 of the decisions, Auburn Hills, Michigan-
based Chrysler said yesterday on its website. Under a law
enacted in December, Chrysler was required to offer binding
arbitration to dealers that were terminated in its bankruptcy
reorganization.  
 “The decisions of a great majority of the arbitrators
reflect the belief that the company’s dealer network decisions
were not only appropriate, but essential to its future
success,” the company said in a statement.  
 Of the 789 dealers terminated, 418 applied for arbitration,
 Mike Palese , a Chrysler spokesman, said yesterday. The cases
that didn’t go to final arbitration were either settled,
dismissed, withdrawn or abandoned, he said.  
 Chrysler had 2,315 dealers as of June 30, and 29 previously
rejected locations have accepted company offers to become
dealers, Palese said. He said more offer letters have been
issued and declined to comment on how many outlets the company
expects to add back.  
 “We’re definitely within the network size that we’re
looking for,” he said. Chrysler expects a total U.S. dealer
network of 2,300 by the end of next year because of attrition
and further consolidation, he said.  
 Ex-AremisSoft CEO Poyiadjis Avoids Prison After Fraud  
 Roys Poyiadjis , the ex-chief executive officer of
AremisSoft Corp., a maker of business-management software, was
sentenced to probation for a $254 million fraud that a judge
said was “of almost unthinkable magnitude.”  
 Poyiadjis, 45, was ordered to serve six months of home
confinement for his role in a decade-old crime on July 22 in a
proceeding that was not publicized by U.S. prosecutors. U.S.
District Judge  Laura Swain  in Manhattan handed down the sentence
-- which also requires 600 hours of community service and a $200
million restitution payment -- because of Poyiadjis’s
cooperation with the government.  
 “You committed a terrible crime, a crime of almost
unthinkable magnitude,” Swain told Poyiadjis at the sentencing,
according to a transcript of the proceeding. The
“sophisticated” AremisSoft fraud “shows that you’re capable
of causing great harm” and “making that very hard to detect.”  
 Poyiadjis and  Lycourgos Kyprianou , AremisSoft’s former
chairman, were indicted in 2001 by a U.S. grand jury and charged
with securities fraud, insider trading and money laundering. In
addition to fabricating $90 million in revenue, Poyiadjis was
accused of making fraudulent representations about his sale of
millions of shares in the company.  
 Argentina Wins Decision Blocking Bond Seizure  
 Argentina  won a court decision that keeps so-called vulture
funds with judgments against the country on defaulted debt from
getting possession of a group of bonds held in a Buenos Aires
government trust account.  
 U.S. District Judge  Thomas Griesa  in Manhattan ruled
against Aurelius Capital Partners LP and Blue Angel Capital I
LLC’s claim that the bonds in the trust were subject to U.S. law
because of the trust’s controlling documents. Griesa ruled July
23 that the bonds and the interest in them belonged to Argentina
and he had no jurisdiction over them.  
 “Because the Trust Bonds are not property ‘in the United
States’ of a foreign state, they are immune from attachment and
execution” under the  Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act , Griesa
ruled.  
 The plaintiffs’ were seeking the bonds in the trust as they
try to collect on judgments against Argentina awarded by Griesa
since the country defaulted on its debt in December 2001.  
 The bonds in the account stemmed from a $42 billion
exchange in November 2001. Bondholders turned over their
securities in a swap for local Argentine loans, guaranteed by
the government and to be paid from dedicated tax revenue. Griesa
said Argentina met its obligations in that swap, so the
contracts remained in force and the U.S. courts had no
jurisdiction over the securities.  
 In his opinion, Griesa said he will consider a request to
lift injunctions the court issued in November 2009 preventing
Argentina from transferring the bonds until his decision on the
motion resolved in the July 23 opinion.  
 The case is Aurelius Capital Partners LP v. Argentina 07-
cv-2715, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Blagojevich Tried to ‘Shake Down’ Obama, Jury Told  
 Rod Blagojevich  is guilty of crimes that included plotting
to sell President  Barack Obama’s  former senate seat, a
prosecutor told a Chicago jury as closing arguments started in
the Illinois ex-governor’s trial.  
 “He tried to shake down President-elect Barack Obama,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney  Christopher Niewoehner  said, referring
to an alleged scheme to gain something of value in exchange for
naming presidential adviser  Valerie Jarrett  to the seat.  
 U.S. District Judge  James B. Zagel  is to rule after the
closings on a defense motion for dismissal of the charges.
Blagojevich lawyers argued that the case was too weak to send to
the jury.  
 Blagojevich conspired with his brother and co-defendant
 Robert Blagojevich  and members of his inner circle to profit
from his office, Niewoehner said.  
 “I’ve got this thing, and it’s effing golden, and I’m not
giving it up for effing nothing,” Niewoehner said, quoting the
governor’s words from a wiretap recording played at the trial.
“This thing” referred to the Senate appointment.  
 “It was about him, the defendant, Rod Blagojevich, and not
the people of Illinois,” Niewoehner told the 12 jurors and five
alternates.  
 The ex-governor, 53, was arrested in December 2008 and
later indicted for linking official acts, including selecting
the president’s Senate successor, to campaign contributions and
personal favors. He was removed from office for abuse of power
in January 2009 by the Illinois Senate after House impeachment.  
 The brothers might be sentenced to as much as 20 years in
prison if they’re found guilty of the most serious charges,
including racketeering conspiracy, attempted extortion and wire
fraud.  
 Defense attorney Sam Adam Jr. will deliver the governor’s
closing arguments.  
 For more, click here.  
 New Suits  
 Apple Sued Over Claims IPad Tablet Overheats in Warm Conditions  
 Apple Inc. , the world’s most valuable technology company,
was sued over claims its iPad tablet overheats and fails to
operate properly in warm conditions.  
 The complaint, filed July 23 in federal court in Oakland,
California, seeks unspecified damages and class action, or
group, status. It claims the iPad “does not live up to the
reasonable consumer’s expectations created by Apple” because it
“overheats so quickly under common weather conditions.”  
 The iPad has a 9.7-inch touch-screen display that lets
users read books and magazines, view videos, play games and surf
the Internet. In direct sunlight, the tablet “turns off,
sometimes after just a few minutes of use,” according to the
complaint.  
 Apple  said July 20 that customers bought 3.27 million iPads
last quarter. Introduced April 3, the iPad outsold the almost
decade-old iPod music player, revenue-wise, Apple said: $2.17
billion in the quarter ended June 10 compared with $1.54 billion
for the iPod.  
 Apple representatives  Susan Lundgren  and  Steve Dowling 
didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  
 The case is Baltazar v. Apple Inc., 10-03231, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  
 Icahn Sues Lions Gate, Rachesky in Canada Over Swap  
 Carl Icahn  sued  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp.  in Canada
and is threatening legal action in New York to reverse a debt-
for-equity swap between the Vancouver-based movie studio and
board member  Mark Rachesky .  
 The billionaire investor is seeking an order to prevent
Rachesky from selling the shares or exercising voting rights
attached to them, according to the lawsuit, filed July 23 in the
Supreme Court of British Columbia.  
 Icahn, 74, is trying to reverse the swap that hinders his
hostile bid for the studio by putting more shares in the hands
of opponents. The swap boosted Rachesky’s stake, the second-
largest after Icahn’s, to 28.9 percent. Icahn has 33 percent.  
 Peter Wilkes , a Lions Gate spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  
 For more, click here.  
 Texas Appeals EPA Ruling That Air-Pollution Laws Are Inadequate  
 Texas’s air pollution-permitting laws meet federal
emissions standards and shouldn’t be overruled by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, Texas Attorney General Greg
Abbott said yesterday.  
 Abbott filed suit asking the U.S. Court of Appeals in New
Orleans to overturn a July 15 EPA finding that rejected Texas’s
10-year-old flexible permitting program as inadequate for
regulating industrial air pollution.  
 For more, click here.  
 ----With assistance from Andrew M. Harris in Chicago; Michael
White in Los Angeles; Margaret Cronin Fisk and Tim Higgins in
Southfield, Michigan; Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston; David
Glovin, Patricia Hurtado, Don Jeffrey and Bob Van Voris in New
York; Ian King and Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco; Susan
Decker and William McQuillen in Washington; James Lumley in
London; and Crayton Harrison in Mexico City. Editors:  Peter Blumberg ,  Glenn Holdcraft .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        