-- Oil Trades Near 11-Week High; Goldman Says Crude Too Cheap
-- Grant Smith
-- 2010-07-27T12:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/oil-trades-near-79-for-fourth-day-as-equity-gains-compete-with-stockpiles.html

          
          
             Oil traded near an 11-week high in
New York as equities rallied around the world and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said crude prices are too cheap.  
 Oil was at about $79 a barrel before a government report
due tomorrow that may show U.S. fuel supplies increased last
week. Goldman Sachs said futures prices are “significantly”
below the level warranted by “fundamentals,” offering buying
opportunities for this year and next.  
 “We expect an average of $92 next year, so on a longer-
term horizon prices are too cheap, but not far too cheap,” said
 Hannes Loacker , an analyst at Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich
AG in Vienna. “Crude faces some resistance around $80 as
although fundamentals are slowly improving they’re not yet
strong enough.”  
 Crude for September delivery was at $79.28 a barrel, up 30
cents, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 1:23 p.m. London time. Brent crude for September settlement
traded at $77.82 a barrel, up 32 cents, on London’s ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Futures rose as high as $79.60 a barrel on July
23, the highest intraday price since May 6.  
 European stocks rose for a sixth day as UBS AG and Deutsche
Bank AG reported earnings that beat estimates and the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision softened some of its proposed
capital and liquidity rules. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained
0.6 percent to 258.65.  
 Goldman Sachs said in a report yesterday that the balance
between supply and demand will continue to tighten in the second
half of this year as global economic growth boosts demand,
returning inventories to “more normal” levels.  
 Supplies Climb  
 The U.S. Energy Department will likely report that supplies
of gasoline and distillate fuels such as diesel rose last week,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  
 Gasoline inventories probably climbed 300,000 barrels last
week, based on the median estimate from 11 analysts polled by
Bloomberg News before the Energy Department report tomorrow.
Stockpiles of distillate fuel, including heating oil and diesel,
are expected to have  increased  by 2 million barrels.  
 Crude stockpiles probably fell 1.75 million barrels last
week, according to the survey.  
 “We’re still seeing builds in the gasoline inventories
which suggest that demand is increasing year-on-year but not as
much as expected,” said  Serene Lim , a commodity strategist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Singapore. “So
the positive news counterbalanced by the negative has given us a
really range-bound market.”  
 Unchanged Prices  
 Oil settled unchanged at $78.98 a barrel yesterday after
the Commerce Department said home purchases climbed 24 percent
in June to an annual pace of 330,000, bolstering speculation the
economic recovery would be sustained. It was the first day since
September that oil closed unchanged. Futures have gained 15
percent in the past year.  
 U.S. fuel demand hasn’t returned to the same levels as
before the economic crisis of 2008. Gasoline  delivered  by
refiners, a four-week average basis, reached a peak of 9.7
million barrels a day in the week of July 27, 2007. Supplies
topped out at 9.5 million in August 2008.  
 For the week of July 16, the amount of the motor fuel
delivered was at 9.4 million barrels a day.  
 Swings in oil prices have declined to their lowest level
since May as traders are more cautious of the market direction,
said ANZ’s Lim.  
 Crude’s 30-day historical volatility, a measure of how much
oil has fluctuated around its average price, has dropped to 26.8
percent today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the lowest since May 3 when it was at 23.5 percent.  
 “There are very contradicting economic numbers,” said
Lim. “Investors have become so short term that there is some
holdback in investing in risky assets. Positive news today is
gone tomorrow so there is no compelling reason for a convincing
direction on oil prices.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An oil pumpjack, also known as a nodding donkey, operates. Photographer: Noah Friedman-Rudovsky/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
