-- BP Oil Is Dissipating, Easing Threat to East Coast
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-28T15:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/oil-from-bp-spill-is-biodegrading-quickly-in-gulf-of-mexico-agency-says.html

          
          
             Oil from  BP Plc ’s record spill in
the Gulf of Mexico is biodegrading quickly, probably eliminating
the risk that crude will go around Florida and hit the U.S. East
Coast, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said.  
 Oil has been dissipating since BP stopped the flow from its
Macondo well off the coast of Louisiana on July 15, NOAA
Administrator  Jane Lubchenco  told reporters yesterday on a
conference call. Crude that’s dispersed into the sea is being
gobbled up by bacteria, she said.  
 The London-based  company ’s success in capping Macondo while
continuing to drill a relief well to permanently plug the well
eased fears that oil would get into the Loop Current, a river of
warm water that joins the Gulf Stream in the Atlantic. The Loop
Current has shifted seasonally to a point hundreds of miles away
from the BP oil slick, NOAA Oceanographer Debbie Payton said.  
 “If all is good for us, by the time the Loop Current comes
back intruding into the Gulf, there will be no more oil,”
Payton said yesterday in a telephone interview. “It makes what
was previously a very real threat to the Florida Straits null
and void.”  
 The threat of oil reaching more shoreline also is
decreasing in the northern Gulf, Lubchenco told reporters. Oil
sheen, too light to be recovered by skimming boats, may strand
in Mississippi, Alabama and Louisiana over the next few days,
she said. By this week, some 640 miles (1,030 kilometers) of
shoreline in those states and northwest Florida had been tarred
by Macondo oil, the government reported.  
 Deadly Explosion  
 The  Macondo  well spewed as much as 60,000 barrels of crude
a day into the Gulf, according to a government estimate, after
an April 20 drilling-rig explosion that triggered the spill. The
blast destroyed the Deepwater Horizon rig and killed 11 workers.  
 In May, the Loop Current was flowing just south of the
spill site and carried some Macondo oil toward south Florida,
Payton said. The water with the oil broke off into a clockwise
flow, dubbed Eddy Franklin, and remained circulating as the oil
broke down, she said.  
 Eddy Franklin persists, now isolated from the  BP  slicks by
two cold, counterclockwise flowing eddies, according to NOAA.  
 “That was a quirk,”  Robert H. Weisberg , a professor of
oceanography at the University of South Florida, said today in a
telephone interview. “The Loop Current can go right to that
wellhead. It has done it many times in the past.”  
 Oil Search  
 There’s no evidence that plumes of dispersed oil deep below
the surface are far enough south to ever be caught by the Loop
Current, Payton said.  
 “We don’t know where subsurface oil really is,” Weisberg
said. “NOAA surveys made publicly available have been spotty.”  
 Eddy Franklin has helped intensify seasonal flow of cold
water from deep in the western Gulf to the surface off Florida,
called an upwelling, Weisberg said. So far, that water has been
clear, he said.  
 Government and academic scientists are “close” to
estimating how much oil remains in the Gulf and where it’s
located, Lubchenco said. The agency has two research vessels in
the Gulf sampling water or seafood, as well as aircraft scanning
the slick and surveying sea life, she said.  
 “The sheer volume of oil that’s out there has to mean
there are some pretty significant impacts,” Lubchenco said.
“What we have yet to determine is the full impact the oil will
have not just on the shoreline, not just on wildlife, but
beneath the surface.”  
 Tropical Storm Bonnie, which passed through the region last
weekend, didn’t affect the spill, the U.S. Coast Guard said July
26. Oil may continue to reach the Gulf Coast for four to six
weeks from when the leak was stopped, according to the Coast
Guard.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ships assist in clean up and containment near the source of the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill. Photographer: Chris Graythen/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Youngberg, an analyst at Edward Jones in St. Louis, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for BP Plc.
     BP appointed U.S.-born Robert Dudley as chief executive officer and pledged to accelerate asset sales to as much as $30 billion after the Gulf of Mexico oil spill led to a record loss. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
