-- Onex, Canada Pension Plan Agree to Acquire Tomkins for $4.5 Billion Cash
-- Howard Mustoe
-- 2010-07-27T15:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/tomkins-agrees-to-be-bought-by-onex-canada-pension-plan-for-4-4-billion.html

          
          
             Canada Pension Plan Investment Board
and  Onex Corp. , the nation’s biggest buyout firm, agreed to buy
 Tomkins Plc  for 2.89 billion pounds ($4.5 billion) to add to
auto investments that span hybrid cars and assembly.  
 Shareholders of the British maker of transmissions and bath
tubs will receive 325 pence a share in cash, the two companies
said today in a statement. The bid is about 41 percent higher
than Tomkins’ closing price on July 16, the day prior to the
announcement of a potential takeover.  
 Onex has invested in manufacturing for industries including
plastics, steel-making and auto-parts. The Toronto-based firm
spent $5.58 billion with the Carlyle Group to buy Indianapolis-
based Allison Transmission from General Motors Corp. in 2007.
That same year it bought Husky Injection Molding Systems Ltd. of
Bolton, Ontario.  
 “I don’t see any private equity companies or industrial
guys coming in but there’s always an American conglomerate who
might have a look,” said Arden Partners analyst  David Larkam .
“You can probably run this thing for quite a bit of cash and
there’s not a lot of debt. It’s got that conglomerate element.”  
 The British manufacturer, which reported losses in the past
two years, climbed 5.3 percent to 323.8 pence in London trading
as of 3:30 p.m. The company announced July 19 that the two
Canadian investors were carrying out “advanced” due diligence.  
 Following a career as a commercial lawyer, Tomkins Chief
Executive Officer  James Nicol , a 56-year-old Ontario native,
spent his early years in management at Canadian automotive parts
company Magna International Inc. Canada Pension’s investments
include Magna. Nicol will remain at Tomkins.  
 M&A Rebound  
 Tomkins is the latest European manufacturer to be targeted
as buyout firms and cash-wielding global engineering companies
seek to invest in new markets and products. Emerson Electric Co.
agreed to pay $1.5 billion for Chloride Group Plc, a British
maker of backup power systems that also attracted a bid from ABB
Ltd. Safran SA is seeking to buy Zodiac Aerospace SA.  
 Takeover talks with Tomkins began in March and since then
the Canadian firms, through their vehicle Pinafore Acquisitions,
have been its only suitors, Chairman  David Newlands  said in an
interview. The offer “fairly reflects” current value and
future potential, he said.  
 The company abandoned an initial plan to sell Tomkins’
building-product unit as 70 percent of sales are from the U.S.,
meaning a demerger would be difficult for tax reasons, Newlands
said. Job cuts will “be a matter for the new owners,” he said.  
 Disgruntled Investor  
 For Standard Life Investments, which controls 2.97 percent
of Tomkins, the bid fell short and the Canadian buyers will
struggle to get the 75 percent support needed.  
 “We do not expect the majority of Tomkins shareholders to
support a deal whose valuation of the company is, without a
shadow of a doubt, too low,” said  David Cumming , head of U.K.
equities at the money manager.  
 In completing the deal, Nicol stands to own a bigger chunk
of Tomkins. The CEO and other executives at the British business
will remain in place, with options to acquire as much as 15
percent of Pinafore depending on their performance. Nicol
currently owns 0.21 percent of the company.  
 “It’s a quasi-management buyout,” Larkam said.  
 The deal provides “massive” incentives to outgoing
management to deliver returns to private equity rather than to
current shareholders, Standard Life’s Cumming said. Senior
executives will effectively receive full value under performance
plans and will benefit from “substantially” improved terms
relating to bonus payments and severance packages, he said.  
 Schroders Investment Management Ltd. and JPMorgan Asset
Management, which own about 9 percent of the company combined,
back the takeover, the companies said.  
 Price First  
 Onex and its partner are being advised by Citigroup Inc.
bankers  Philip Robert-Tissot  and Grant Kernaghan. JPMorgan
Cazenove’s Edmund Byers,  Barry Weir  and Patrick Magee advised
Tomkins. Canada Pension Plan Investment Board spokeswoman Linda
Sims declined further comment, as did Onex spokeswoman  Emma Thompson , beyond the statements.  
 “The price for the company was agreed before we allowed
management to have any discussions with the new owners about
their arrangements,” Tomkins’s chairman, Newlands, said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tomkins Plc chief executive officer Jim Nicol, Source: Tomkins Plc. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
