-- London Mayor Johnson Warns U.K. Government Against Cuts to Arts
-- Farah Nayeri
-- 2010-07-27T09:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/london-mayor-johnson-warns-u-k-government-against-cuts-to-arts.html

          
          
                  July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Boris Johnson , the mayor of London,
said that if the new U.K. government slashes arts spending too
radically, everyone will suffer.  
 “The arts are part of a powerful machine that drives the
London economy,” the mayor said in an interview in his office
last night. “If you cut too savagely, if you cut the wrong
things, the risk is that you will take away one of the things
that makes London such an extraordinarily attractive place to
live in and invest in.”  
 Johnson said he wasn’t merely backing the arts for their
own sake. “In terms of cold, hard cash, they deliver in
London,” he said, “and they deliver for some of the poorest
and the neediest people in London, in the sense that they drive
investment in our city.”  
 Prime Minister  David Cameron , who took over in May, plans
spending cuts and tax increases totaling 113 billion pounds
($174 billion) to shrink a deficit that has widened to 11
percent of economic output. In May, the arts got a 61 million-
pound trim. Bigger scale backs will come by late October, with
most departments facing inflation-adjusted cuts of 25 percent by
2015.  
 Earlier this month, Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  wrote to
Arts Council England -- which delivers subsidies on the
government’s behalf -- and to national museums asking them to
illustrate, via models, what cuts of 25 percent and 30 percent
would mean, according to several recipients of the letter.  
 Cuts Warning  
 Heads of U.K. cultural bodies including the Tate and the
Arts Council have publicly said that if cuts are deep, museums
will cancel blockbuster exhibitions, theaters will go dark, and
200 of 850 state-funded arts bodies will lose funding.  
 The mayor spoke in his spacious office overlooking the
Tower of London, where he had invited a few arts reporters for
an informal drink. Parked by his desk was one of the new
bicycles for hire that he is introducing in a London-wide plan
to drive down pollution and car use. At one point, he got on the
bike and pedaled a few feet on the carpet.  
 Wall-to-wall shelves overflowed with books on subjects
including the Roman Empire, politics and the opera singer  Maria Callas , as well as bound copies of “The Spectator,” the weekly
that he previously edited. Also on the shelf was a model of a
London double-decker bus and a framed “Politician of the Year”
award.  
 Johnson belongs to the Conservative Party, which is the
party of Cameron and the main component of the new coalition
government with the Liberal Democrats.  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Boris Johnson, mayor of London  
                       
                         
                           Ian Gavan/Getty Images 
                         
                         Boris Johnson, mayor of London, attends the London Evening Standard Theatre Awards at the Royal Opera House in London, Nov. 23, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Boris Johnson, mayor of London, attends the London Evening Standard Theatre Awards at the Royal Opera House in London, Nov. 23, 2009. Photographer: Ian Gavan/Getty Images  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  Johnson on Arts, Economy 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
