-- London Olympics Close to Reaching $1.1 Billion Sponsor Target, Coe Says
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-07-27T19:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/london-olympics-close-to-reaching-1-1-billion-sponsor-target-coe-says.html

          
          
             Organizers of the  London 2012
Olympics  are close to reaching their domestic sponsorship target
of 700 million pounds ($1.1 billion), the committee’s chairman
said today exactly two years before the Games open.  
 “We’ve raised well north of 600 million pounds,”
Sebastian Coe, chairman of the  London Organizing Committee of
the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games , said in an interview at
the Olympic site in east London. “We’re very pleased with that,
as it’s in the teeth of a really difficult economic environment,
and all that money is discretionary spending.”  
 As Coe spoke, British four-time Olympic track cycling
champion  Chris Hoy  rode his bike on a makeshift track in the 100
million-pound Olympic velodrome that will be finished early next
year.  
 Coe, a two-time gold medalist in track, said he “never
doubted” the London Olympics would reach their targets when the
city won the bid to host the Games in 2005.  
 The U.K. is going through its biggest budget squeeze since
World War II after the longest recession on record. The Olympic
organizing committee has an operational budget of 2 billion
pounds, most of which will be raised from the private sector. So
far, it has raised sponsorship revenue from international
companies and local firms, including oil company  BP Plc ,
telecommunications provider  BT Group Plc  and banking group
 Lloyds TSB .  
 Coe said he wasn’t concerned about BP’s Olympic sponsorship
after the company today announced the resignation of Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  as the Gulf of Mexico oil spill
led to a record loss. Hayward will be replaced by U.S.-born
 Robert Dudley . BP has sponsored the London Games since 2008.  
 ‘Great Partner’  
 “BP are a great partner,” Coe said. “They’re a very
important sponsor and have helped us a lot during the bid.”  
 When asked if the change in leadership at BP may lead to a
change in relations with the organizing committee, Coe said:
“No.”  
 London today celebrated its two-year countdown to the
opening ceremony with athletes including former Olympic track
champion  Michael Johnson , former National Basketball Association
player  John Amaechi  and Hoy testing venues at the Olympic Park.  
 “Everything seems to be on time, which obviously is key,”
Johnson, a gold medalist at 200 and 400 meters for the U.S.,
said in an interview. “The stadium seems to be on time, and it
looks great.”  
 Site Transformed  
 The former derelict industrial site is being transformed
into a sprawling park housing venues such as the Olympic
stadium, the velodrome and the basketball arena. The 200
million-pound aquatics center, designed by architect  Zaha Hadid ,
has a wave-like roof with a longer single span than Terminal 5
at London’s Heathrow Airport. Once the Games are over, the park
will be given back to the local community.  
 “The building is all on budget,”  John Armitt , chairman of
the Olympic Delivery Authority, said in an interview at the
velodrome. The ODA, which is responsible for the infrastructure
and venues, has so far spent 7.25 billion pounds, out of a total
building budget of 8.1 billion pounds, Armitt said.  
 London Mayor  Boris Johnson  and Coe today opened London
2012’s first official merchandise store, at St. Pancras station,
and issued a call for 70,000 volunteers to help during the
Games. From St. Pancras station, Olympic spectators will take
the high-speed Javelin train for the seven-minute journey to the
Olympic Park’s Stratford International station.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        