-- Money Manager Kenneth I. Starr Granted $10 Million Bail by Federal Judge
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-27T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/money-manager-kenneth-starr-is-granted-10-million-bail-by-federal-judge.html

          
          
             Money manager  Kenneth I. Starr ,
facing a criminal trial on charges he defrauded his celebrity
clients of at least $59 million, was conditionally granted
$10 million bail two months after his arrest.  
 U.S. District Judge  Shira Scheindlin  in Manhattan said
today that to secure the bond, Starr must post as collateral the
homes belonging to his two brothers, a Florida condo, $250,000
in cash and a rare book collection owned by one of the brothers.
His wife, Diane Passage, and his brothers must sign the bond, as
must a family friend who owns a charter jet business.  
 Starr, 66, is charged with 20 counts of wire fraud and one
each of securities fraud, money laundering and fraud by an
investment adviser. He was arrested May 27 and accused of
defrauding clients, including heiress Rachel “Bunny” Mellon,
in a scheme to buy a $7.5 million Manhattan apartment. Starr,
who also represented actors  Sylvester Stallone  and  Wesley Snipes , has pleaded not guilty and faces a Nov. 1 trial date.  
 “This case warrants a high bail,” Sheindlin told Starr’s
lawyer, Flora Edwards, who proposed the brother’s rare book
collection and a Florida condo as security for a $2 million
bond.  
 “People must be willing to risk everything and their
entire bank life,” Scheindlin said. “I don’t believe in doing
this half-way bargain. Either they’re willing to go to the mat
for him or they’re not.”  
 Illuminated Manuscript  
 Edwards said one brother, Warren Starr, a certified public
accountant, didn’t want to post his home in Connecticut because
he hoped to sell it soon. He was willing to offer a rare book
collection worth an estimated $1.7 million, including a 15th
Century illuminated manuscript, as part of the bond package,
Edwards said.  
 Stuart Starr, a brother who is an electrical engineer, was
unwilling to post as security his home in Falls Church,
Virginia, Edwards said. He was willing to post a Miami, Florida,
condominium where his mother-in-law resides, the lawyer said.  
 Edwards said two other people were also willing to sign
Starr’s bond, including his Passage and a family friend, Michael
Giordano, who she said owns V1 Private Jets.  
 Scheindlin questioned why the brothers weren’t willing to
use their homes as collateral for their brother’s bond.  
 ‘Lack of Trust’  
 “Either they’re willing to risk posting their property or
there’s a lack of trust,” she said. “I’m not quarreling, but
if you trust the man with your book, why not post it all and
make the $10 million bond? We shouldn’t be struggling.”  
 The judge asked if the brothers were in the courtroom,
“Are they here? Oh, they’re not hearing this? How sad.”  
 Scheindlin told both Passage and Giordano that if they
signed Starr’s bond and he fled, they would face a $10 million
judgment against them.  
 Giordano said he understood, telling the judge, “I am the
best private jet guy in the universe, if he decides to go
anywhere in the world, I can find him and get him to your
house.”  
 Passage told Scheindlin she understood the ramifications of
signing a bond on her husband’s behalf, saying, “He’s not going
anywhere.”  
 Scheindlin said that if Starr’s sisters-in-law were on the
mortgages for the two homes, they would also be required to sign
his bond. The judge said prosecutors would be permitted to
review the equity in the homes and interview all co-signers of
the bond.  
 Deeds, ‘Everything’  
 “There’s no release until this is reviewed,” the judge
said. “The government will be looking at deeds and
everything.”  
 The judge set the next court date for Aug. 12.  
 Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney Michael Bosworth declined
to comment after court.  
 “We’re going to try to make this bail package,” Edwards
said after court. “This is a very significant package and Mr.
Starr will do everything he can to meet these terms and win his
release on bail. Certainly the court recognizes that there are
conditions under which he can be released. He’ll stay in custody
until it’s done.”  
 The case is U.S. v. Starr, 1:10-cr-00520, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in Manhattan Federal Courthouse at
   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        