-- Buoyant Asian Demand Helps Hong Kong's Exports Top All Economist Estimates
-- Sophie Leung
-- 2010-07-27T09:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/hong-kong-exports-increase-more-than-estimated-26-7-eighth-monthly-gain.html

          
          
             Hong Kong’s  exports  rose a more-
than-estimated 26.7 percent in June from a year earlier, buoyed
by demand within Asia.  
 Shipments rose to HK$267.6 billion ($34.4 billion) after
gaining 24.4 percent in May, the government said today on its
website. That was more than the 22.8 percent median estimate in
a Bloomberg News  survey . None of the seven economists forecast
such a large gain.  
 Today’s report shows that Hong Kong, like regional peers
such as  South Korea , Singapore and Taiwan, is reaping the
benefit of faster Asian growth that’s fueling trade in the
region. Gains may moderate should efforts by European
governments to reduce their debt burdens weigh on global demand.  
 “There’s still considerable momentum in the Asian region
to support Hong Kong’s trade and economy,”  David Cohen , a
Singapore-based economist at Action Economics, said before the
data were released.  
 Shipments to Asia gained 27.4 percent from a year earlier,
while those to China, the main destination for goods shipped
through Hong Kong, rose 26.2 percent.  
 U.S. demand also provided a boost, with shipments to that
market climbing 29.4 percent, more than the 24 percent gain in
May.  
 China’s export growth may slow in the second half on
Europe’s woes, the gradual end of post-crisis restocking by
businesses, and monetary tightening in emerging economies such
as India and Brazil, the nation’s commerce ministry said July 20.  
 Imports  climbed a more-than-estimated 31 percent from a
year earlier last month, leaving a trade deficit of HK$30.6
billion ($3.94 billion). The median forecast of seven economists
was for a 25.2 percent increase in imports.  
 Hong Kong’s economy grew at its fastest pace in four years
in the first quarter as exports and retail spending rebounded
from the global crisis. The economic results for April-June are
due Aug. 13.  
 Exports may be “losing steam,” with the effects of the
European debt crisis and a slowing U.S. economy yet to be fully
felt,  Joanne Yim , chief economist at Hang Seng Bank Ltd. in Hong
Kong, said before today’s data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        