-- Moscow May Break Heat Record as Russia's Heartland Burns, Drownings Rise
-- Maria Levitov
-- 2010-07-27T10:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/moscow-may-break-heat-record-as-russia-s-heartland-burns-drownings-rise.html

          
          
             Moscow is set to break a heat record
for a second day running as wildfires rage across European
Russia, burning entire villages to the ground in some regions.  
 The temperature soared to a record 37.4 degrees Celsius
(99.3 Fahrenheit) in Moscow yesterday, the hottest since records
began 130 years ago. The capital is likely to get even hotter
today, the All-Russian Research Institute for
Hydrometeorological Information said on its  website . The air
temperature was 34.8 degrees as of 1:50 p.m.  
 Forest fires blazed in 282 spots across Russia as of 6:00
a.m., covering 52,060 hectares (about 129,000 acres), according
to the Emergency Situations Ministry. In all, 575 wildfires were
burning, including 34 in peat bogs drained during the Soviet era
for agriculture, the ministry said on its  website . Since the
start of the fire season, 418,000 hectares have burned, the
ministry said.  
 “The fires will increase sharply if the heat wave
continues,” Nikolai Shmatkov, the World Wildlife Fund’s forest
program expert in Moscow, said by telephone today. “The peak is
still ahead.”  
 Entire villages in the Mordovia and Ryazan regions in
central Russia have fallen to fires, state broadcaster  Rossiya
24  reported. A fire-fighting train arrived in Mordovia too late
to save one village after strong winds fuelled the flames.  
 Carbon Monoxide  
 Moscow is enveloped in gray haze from burning peat bogs
outside the city. The concentration of poisonous carbon monoxide
and hydrocarbons in the air increased by as much as 30 percent
from yesterday, Alexei Popikov, a Moscow-based analyst at the
state environmental monitoring agency, said on state radio  Vesti
FM . Central Moscow is among the worst-affected areas, though
people across the capital should limit the time they spend
outdoors, he said.  
 The heat wave has also hit Russia’s economy, with drought
damage to 10.1 million hectares, or 32 percent of all land under
cultivation, Agriculture Minister  Yelena Skrynnik  said on July
23. The ministry has declared weather-related emergencies in 23
crop-producing regions.  
 Fires erupted on four wheat and barley fields in central
Russia overnight, according to Rossiya 24. Russia, the world’s
third-biggest wheat exporter, will harvest about 80 million
metric tons of grain this season, 17 percent less than last
year, according to Moscow-based researcher SovEcon.  
 Grain Prices  
 Grain prices rose as much as 33 percent last week on
drought concerns, SovEcon said on its  website . Grain prices may
double this year because of the drought, according to the Grain
Producers’ Union.  
 Unusually high temperatures have contributed to record
deaths by drowning across Russia, which increased by 688 in the
past three weeks, Rossiiskaya Gazeta reported on July 23, citing
Emergency Situations Ministry data. Most of those who drowned
were intoxicated, the government’s newspaper of record said.  
 Another 47 people died in the last 24 hours, according to
the Emergency Situations Ministry.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        