-- Total, Novatek Natural-Gas Venture in Russia Risks Losing Siberian License
-- Anna Shiryaevskaya
-- 2010-07-27T09:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/total-novatek-natural-gas-venture-in-russia-may-lose-terneftegaz-license.html

          
          
             Total SA  and Russian partner  OAO
Novatek  may lose a license to develop an Arctic natural gas
field in a venture agreed on last year that was green-lighted by
Prime Minister Vladimir Putin.  
 The Natural Resources Ministry’s environmental watchdog put
a permit for the Terneftegaz venture on a list for possible
early termination, according to its  website . The Moscow-based
regulator, Rosprirodnadzor, didn’t cite a reason.  
 The watchdog will consider the issue at a commission to be
held “no earlier than next week,” said a spokeswoman, who
declined to be identified because of agency policy.  
 Novatek, Russia’s second-biggest gas company after export
monopoly OAO Gazprom, and Total last year formed the venture to
develop the  Termokarstovoye  gas condensate field in the Yamal-
Nenets region. Total owns 49 percent of Terneftegaz, which holds
the rights for Termokarstovoye until 2021.  
 Putin last month promised Total Chief Executive Officer
 Christophe de Margerie  “good administrative support” in
Russia. Royal Dutch Shell Plc in 2007 was forced to cede control
in a venture in Russia to Gazprom after government pressure over
costs and environmental issues.  
 The regulator’s decision was “a total surprise” and
“unjustified,” Novatek said in an e-mail. “There was a
detailed response provided for all complaints made as part of a
documental inspection of Terneftegaz. If they made such a
decision the only explanation can be that, for unknown reasons,
no one read our response.”  
 Phenelope Semavoine, a Total spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  
 The partners plan to complete exploration and make a final
investment decision at the end of 2011, according to Novatek.  
 Total in 2005 sought to buy 25 percent in Novatek in a deal
that lapsed after the Russian gas producer decided to sell
shares to the public abroad. The French company is attempting to
get a similar stake in Novatek’s Yamal LNG project.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Bierman  in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net 
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        