-- Pakistan Spy Agency at Heart of `Two-Tiered' Policy on Taliban
-- James Rupert
-- 2010-07-27T19:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/pakistani-spy-agency-at-heart-of-country-s-two-tiered-policy-on-taliban.html

          
          
             Pakistan’s military spy agency, at
the center of secret U.S. documents leaked this week, is the
main tool for what analysts say is a policy of covertly helping
Taliban guerrillas fight U.S. forces in Afghanistan.  
 The  Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate  has given
sanctuary, supplies and direction to the Taliban even as
Pakistan’s government has pledged support for the U.S. war
against them, say Pakistani and U.S. analysts and retired CIA
officials. Documents among the 75,000 posted  on the Wikileaks
website  this week show that U.S. troops for years also have
reported a Pakistani dual approach to the war.  
 The leaked papers underscore Pakistan’s “two-tiered”
policy of “overt opposition to the Taliban and covert support”
for them, said  George Friedman , chief executive of  Strategic
Forecasting, Inc. , a risk advisory group based in Austin, Texas.  
 Pakistan’s army, which sets the country’s national security
policy, does not believe the U.S. will remain in Afghanistan and
so is choosing to keep good relations with the Taliban,
according to Friedman and  Ahmed Rashid , whose 2001 book,
 “Taliban,”  detailed the ISI’s role in building the guerrilla
movement. The Pakistanis see the Taliban as dominating the
government after a U.S. withdrawal, they said.  
 The U.S. government is aware of Pakistan’s dual policy and
has “settled for what support Pakistan could give” while
regularly pushing it for tougher action against the guerrillas,
Friedman wrote in an e-mailed essay.  
 Retired Personnel  
 Pakistan’s army always has denied a policy of backing the
Taliban against the U.S. In 2006, then-military ruler  Pervez Musharraf  told NBC’s “Meet the Press” program that he had
reports that retired ISI officers were helping the Taliban,
although he denied that active-duty personnel were doing so.  
 Following the Soviet Army’s withdrawal from Afghanistan in
1989 and the end of U.S. financial aid for anti-Soviet Afghan
guerrillas and their Pakistani backers, the ISI supported the
Taliban to build influence in Afghanistan. At the same time, the
agency developed guerrilla groups, including  Lashkar-e-Taiba , as
proxies to wage attacks in Kashmir, where Pakistan for decades
disputed India’s control.  
 The man leading Pakistan’s security policy, General Ashfaq
 Parvez Kayani , this month was appointed for a further three-year
term as army chief. Kayani served as ISI chief during much of
the period covered by the leaked documents.  
 After  Osama bin Laden  used Taliban-ruled Afghanistan as a
base from which to plan the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, the U.S.
forced Pakistan’s army-led government to break its formal
alliance with the Islamic militant movement and to cooperate
with its replacement by U.S.-backed President  Hamid Karzai .  
 ‘Systematic and Pervasive’  
 Still, by 2008 U.S. and NATO military officers in
Afghanistan had gathered evidence of “a systematic and
pervasive system of ISI collusion” with the Taliban, Rashid
wrote in a 2008 book, “Descent Into Chaos.” The Central
Intelligence Agency found that the ISI helped the guerrillas by
leaking plans for U.S.-led operations against them, former CIA
counter-terrorism chief  Vince Cannistraro  said in an interview
at the time.  
 In July 2008, after India and others said the ISI backed a
bomb attack on India’s embassy in Kabul, President  George W. Bush  confronted Pakistani leaders over “who controls ISI,”
Defense Minister  Ahmed Mukhtar  said on GEO Television on July 30
of that year. Pakistan dismissed the spy agency’s director two
months later.  
 Mumbai Attacks  
 India this month accused the ISI of running the November
2008 Lashkar-e-Taiba attack that killed 166 people in Mumbai,
citing Indian investigators’ interrogation of Pakistani-American
David Coleman Headley, who pleaded guilty to plotting the attack
in a U.S. federal court.  
 More than 180 of the documents leaked this week report
allegations received by U.S. officers of ISI giving help to the
Taliban, said the London-based  Guardian . The newspaper, with the
New York Times and the German magazine  Der Spiegel , examined
them over several weeks after receiving the papers from
Wikileaks, a website founded by an Australian, Julian Assange.  
 Most of the reports in the documents cannot be
independently confirmed, the three news organizations said.  
 The detailed mass of reports by U.S. officers, and the press
coverage they are getting, may increase cynicism among Americans
and Europeans about their alliance with Pakistan and “the
winnability of the war,” Rashid said in a phone interview.  
 “It’s no secret the ISI pursues multiple, sometimes
conflicting, interests, sometimes simultaneously,” said  John McLaughlin , a former acting director of the CIA now at the Johns
Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies in Washington.
“We’ve learned to work around it.”  
 While the revelations about Pakistani intelligence service
and other details about the war effort weren’t new, the Taliban
likely will be able to figure out from the reports how the U.S.
got some of its information, said former CIA Director  Michael Hayden , a principal at the Chertoff Group, a Washington-based
security consultant.  
 “If I had gotten this kind of information on the Taliban
and al-Qaeda, I would have called it invaluable,” he said in an
interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rupert  in New Delhi at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Pakistani paramilitary soldier looks out from a vehicle patrolling on the streets of Quetta, Pakistan. Photographer: Banaras Khan/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
