-- Palin Shows Limits of Woman Wisdom: Amity Shlaes
-- Amity Shlaes
-- 2010-07-27T12:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/palin-mama-grizzly-shows-limits-of-woman-wisdom-amity-shlaes.html

          
          
             (Corrects reference to female chromosomes in 11th
paragraph.)  
 Women just feel it. They sense
trouble and will instinctually right it. They’re like mama
grizzly bears, “who kind of just know when something’s
wrong” and when to raise a paw to stop it. So women should
get to govern now. Or else.  
 That’s the message of  Sarah Palin ’s latest  video ,
“Mama Grizzlies.” She isn’t the only woman who is finding
feminine judgment to be a selling point.  
 Unlike Palin, Harvard Professor  Elizabeth Warren 
doesn’t choose to play up her gender. But it is clear that
one reason she was able to push the Consumer Finance
Protection Agency into being is that she presents herself
as a refreshing picture of maternal common sense.  
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair 
likewise doesn’t play the mama card. But she has won
approval of what might be called the nanny solution to the
too-big-to-fail challenge posed by the largest banks.  
 Rather than let them fail like big boys and girls,
Bair’s solution, and our new law, monitors banks so that
they never get close to collapsing. Like a terrified mom
with a 180-pound 17-year-old to discipline, Bair seems to
think upping the punishments and scaring her charges will
give her continued control. She recently warned banks that
if they misbehaved they would face federal retribution
equivalent to “the nuclear bomb that you hope you never
have to use.”  
 Shirley Sherrod , another name in the news, fits in
here, too. The Agriculture Department official came into
the news because a right-wing blogger posted selected
excerpts of an acceptable speech she gave to the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People, making
it seem unacceptably racist.  
 Personal Discretion  
 But the flap over race obscured another feature of
Sherrod’s speech: a Palin-esque emphasis on personal
discretion. A farmer, she said, had “come to me for
help.” But “what he didn’t realize what I was trying to
decide just how much help I was going to give him.”
Somehow, this line drew laughs of support from Sherrod’s
audience, in part, one senses, because Sherrod is a woman.  
 The womanly wisdom theme also came up last year in the
confirmation of Supreme Court Justice  Sonia Sotomayor . It
emerged that Sotomayor had mentioned that one of her
qualifications was that of a “wise Latina” who might make
better legal decisions than a white man.  
 Whence the premium on female wisdom? The first source
is obvious. Women, especially Alaskan women, Latina women
and black women, count as diverse. And geographic, racial
and gender diversity are believed to be a requirement of
American politics. That “Mama Grizzly” advertisement
comes straight out of ancient playbooks of some masculine
people, like  Karl Rove  and  Dick Morris .  
 Men’s Work  
 But the second reason for the popularity of feminine
instinct is newer. Masculine discretion has failed the
country so monumentally recently, whether in economics or
politics. It was men at the Treasury or Federal Reserve who
scanned the charts and opted to tell us that  housing prices 
could only go up. Men headed -- and still run -- the
investment banks, and men placed bets on toxic derivatives
and credit default swaps.  
 Men, mostly, sold the subprime mortgages. Men chose a
man,  John McCain , who promptly led the Republican Party to
a defeat mitigated only by his XX-chromosome running mate,
Sarah Palin. Maternal instinct is supposed to be change we
can believe in.  
 All this doesn’t mean that maternal wisdom warrants
that faith. Maternal instinct of the grizzly variety, after
all, is primitive. But instinct isn’t so valuable when it
comes to complex decisions, like how to craft a rules-based
reform of Medicare  Part D . Have a grizzly evaluate the risk
of a derivatives product and your outcome will be no better
than the result of a guess by the most unwise Wall Street
trader.  
 Common Sense  
 Maternal common sense is likewise a limited construct.
To place common-sense women at the heads of financial
institutions may be a good idea. Of course, there is
nothing uniquely feminine about common sense.  
 What’s more, there’s such a thing as an overdose of
common sense. Risk, even now, is still part of our life. To
overdose on common sense is the equivalent of condemning
ourselves to an economy of all mutual funds and no hedge
funds. As for intuition, it is just another variety of the
discretion exercised by men that got us all into so much
trouble in the first place. Intuition is almost worse,
because it dispenses with the necessity of logic.  
 Female wisdom in and of itself is also overrated in the
non-market parts of our lives. Having a wise Latina on the
Supreme Court will improve the court’s jurisprudence only
if those new justices respect the structure of the
 Constitution . For Sherrod to be cleared of racism charges
isn’t enough to fix federal programs for bankrupt farms.
What would fix them would be a rules-based system that
reduced the individual discretion of officials, black or
white.  
 To develop such rules-based systems will require the
input of intelligent females as well as intelligent males.
If Sarah Palin’s dumbing-down does win her the White House,
she may find it harder to make the subtle calls presidents
have to make.  
 ( Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at
the Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Amity Shlaes  at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        