-- Philippines to Sell Global Peso Bond as Dollar Debt Yields Sink
-- Lilian Karunungan
-- 2010-07-28T00:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/philippines-plans-first-global-sale-of-peso-debt-seeks-rating-upgrades.html

          
          
             The  Philippines  plans to sell peso
bonds overseas for the first time to fund a record  budget
deficit  this year, seeking to lure investors to new securities
after yields on the nation’s dollar debt fell to record lows.  
 Aberdeen Asset Management Plc. and MFC Global Investment
Management expect investors to buy the global peso debt as the
administration of President  Benigno Aquino , 50, pledges to build
more roads, railways and ports to attain the fastest economic
growth in three decades by 2011.  
 The government will probably sell local notes due in five
to 10 years next quarter, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said
in an interview yesterday in  Manila . The Philippines plans to
continue foreign-currency debt sales and offer peso and dollar
bonds in exchange for older, shorter-dated debt, he said.  
 “We’ll definitely look at” the new bonds, said Endre Pedersen, who manages about $16 billion of Asian debt at MFC
Global Investment Management in  Hong Kong . “It’s another way to
get exposure to the Philippines for us. If President Aquino
carries out what he’s promising, then it’s encouraging.”  
 The average spread on Philippine dollar bonds has shrunk to
182 basis points, or 1.82 percentage points, above similar-
maturity Treasuries, from 291 a year ago, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI index. That was the lowest premium since April
26. The average spread for emerging-market debt on JPMorgan’s
EMBI+ index is 277 basis points.  
 Higher Yields  
 The government’s benchmark 10-year peso bond yielded 7.6
percent at Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp. compared with
4.40 percent on the 6.5 percent dollar debt due January 2020,
the lowest since the dollar bonds were first sold in July 2009.  
 The planned global peso bonds will offer similar yields as
local debt and will be settled in U.S. dollars at the prevailing
exchange rate, Purisima said. The peso strengthened 0.6 percent
to 45.97 per dollar so far in 2010 and has climbed in four of
the last five years.  
 “Peso global bonds are something we’d welcome,” said  Edwin Gutierrez , who manages about $5 billion of emerging-market
debt at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc in  London . “The dollar
bonds have fallen so much in yield and investors need relatively
higher-yielding bonds. Local currency is where we see a lot of
interest.”  
 Budget Targets  
 Aquino, who campaigned against corruption, took office on
June 30, vowing to fight poverty, jail tax offenders and attract
investments. The government estimates the budget deficit will
widen to 325 billion pesos ($7.1 billion) this year from 298.5
billion pesos in 2009. The shortfall in the  first half  reached
60.5 percent of the target. The Philippines had deficits in 21
of the past 25 years.  
 The government aims to narrow the budget gap to 2 percent
of gross domestic product and raise tax revenue to 16 percent of
GDP by 2013 to win a debt-rating upgrade, Purisima said.
Aquino’s economic managers have kept this year’s growth target
in a range of 5 percent to 6 percent and raised next year’s GDP
expansion forecast to a range of 7 percent to 8 percent. About
250 billion pesos is lost annually to  tax evasion , he said.  
 This year’s deficit may widen to 4 percent of GDP from 3.9
percent in 2009, Purisima said. Tax collection last year was
equivalent to about 13 percent of GDP, he said. The government
plans to raise borrowing in 2010 to 766.4 billion pesos, 8
percent more than Aquino’s predecessor planned.  
 ‘Main Risks’  
 “For the Philippines, the main risks remain on the fiscal
side,” said Anthony Chan, the Asia sovereign strategist in Hong
Kong at AllianceBernstein L.P., which oversees $458 billion
globally. “We’re seeing the fiscal slippage this year.”  
 Aquino doesn’t intend to ask Congress for additional
funding this year or to raise the deficit ceiling, Budget
Secretary Butch Abad told reporters yesterday. The Philippine
president said on July 26 Arroyo’s government “squandered”
public funds.  
 Moody’s Investors Service rates the Philippines’ long-term
foreign-currency debt Ba3, while Standard & Poor’s assigns a BB-
rating, three levels below investment grade.  Indonesia ,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy, is rated one level higher at
both Moody’s and S&P.  
 “We will get that upgrade; the sooner the better,”
Purisima said. “I do believe we should probably be rated at
least equal to Indonesia.”  
 The government sold $1.5 billion of dollar-denominated
bonds, 100 billion yen ($1.1 billion) of so-called Samurai notes
in the first quarter, and $500 million worth of dollar- and
euro-denominated debt to Filipinos living overseas in April.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Cesar Purisima, Philippines secretary of finance  
                       
                         
                           Edwin Tuyay/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The government will probably sell local notes due in five to 10 years next quarter, Purisima said. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The government will probably sell local notes due in five to 10 years next quarter, Purisima said.  Photographer: Edwin Tuyay/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
