-- Philippines May Cut Rice Imports as Stockpiles Rot, Food Agency Debt Rises
-- Cecilia Yap
-- 2010-07-28T02:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/philippines-may-cut-rice-imports-as-stockpiles-rot-food-agency-debt-rises.html

          
          
             The Philippines, the world’s biggest
rice buyer, may be forced to cut imports as the state food buyer
sinks deeper into debt and the country’s stockpiles of the grain
rot in warehouses.  
 The  National Food Authority  won’t be able to pay its debts,
the authority’s administrator  Lito Banayo , who assumed the
position this month, said in Manila yesterday. “Gross
mismanagement” has seen that debt balloon to more than 170
billion pesos ($3.7 billion) this year, from 45 billion pesos in
2005, after the agency boosted imports, Finance Secretary  Cesar Purisima  said.  
 Rice futures in Chicago slumped as much as 4.2 percent to
$9.745 per 100 pounds yesterday, before closing at $10.01.
Prices surged to an all-time high of $25.07 per 100 pounds in
2008 as the Philippine increased imports to a record amid
concerns about a global food shortage. Futures reached last
year’s high of $16.27 in December as the country advanced
purchases to another peak after storms damaged crops.  
 Meanwhile, rice stockpiles are rotting because the
government failed to sell inventory bought when prices were at
the record in 2008, Banayo said. “It’s so rotten, even the pigs
would reject it,” he said.  
 The government may reduce the agency’s rice import budget
and “slow down” its activities because of its surging
liabilities, Purisima said.  
 National Food sold 9 billion pesos of 10-year bonds at a
rate of 6.375 percent annually in an October 2009 auction.  
 Storage Full  
 “Within the year, we’re not going to import; those we
contracted last year are still arriving and we don’t even have a
place for those shipments,” Banayo said. The country must keep
its import plans and details of its supply-and-demand balance
“as much as possible to ourselves so that we will be able to
navigate towards the highs and the lows,” he said.  
 The reduction in imports may coincide with a second
consecutive year of weather-damaged harvests. The Department of
Agriculture on May 17 reported rice production in the country
may decline by a more-than-estimated 902,000 metric tons in the
first nine months of the year. Output through September will
drop 8.3 percent to 9.994 million tons, down from 10.896 million
tons a year earlier, as dry weather caused by El Nino parched
crops, the agency said.  
 The Southeast Asian nation may return to the market if the
La Nina weather event, which can produce higher-than-average
rainfall in parts of Asia, damages the next harvest, Agriculture
Secretary Proceso Alcala said on July 9.  
 The Philippines may have as much as 60 percent more
rainfall in the fourth quarter than average, potentially
wreaking similar damage on crops caused by storms last year,
Prisco Nilo, administrator of the Philippine Atmospheric
Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration, said in a
July 5 interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecilia Yap  in Manila at   cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
 Joel Guinto  in Manila at   jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        