-- Poop-Eating, Air-Breathing Fish May Save Endangered Cod: Books
-- Alix Greenwald
-- 2010-07-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/poop-eating-air-breathing-fish-tra-may-save-endangered-cod-book-review.html

          
          
             Wearing a borrowed pair of orange
rubber overalls and thick wool socks,  Paul Greenberg  was an
unwitting participant in a shady salmon deal on the Yukon River.  
 In an attempt to conserve the endangered Alaskan king
salmon, the state had declared a “subsistence opening” --
meaning that fish caught could only be used for personal
consumption.  
 After Greenberg’s  Yupik  Eskimo hosts inadvertently caught a
king salmon, they pulled their tiny metal skiff up to a black
oil tanker and banged on the hull. Out came “a dude” who gave
them 30 pounds of frozen chicken and beef from  Safeway  in
exchange for their 30 pounds of freshly caught  king salmon .  
 In “ Four Fish: The Future of the Last Wild Food ,”
Greenberg uses this unfair trade to illustrate the complicated
plight of the king salmon, which are dependent on the Yupik
people for conservation just as the Yupik economy relies on
them.  
 He provides a detailed examination of the fishing industry
in sections about salmon, sea bass, cod and tuna. He travels the
globe exploring not only what has been done wrong, but also
where to go from here.  
 Greenberg, a freelance writer, tells a story that is full
of historical and scientific information, yet reads like a
combination of memoir, mystery and adventure novel with a dash
of Greek drama and science fiction thrown in.  
 Tra Farming  
 In a quest to find an alternative to the cod, which has a
perilously declining population, Greenberg travels to the city
of Can Tho in Vietnam. There he meets Vo Thanh Khon of the
aquaculture company  Bianfishco , who farms tra, a prospective
replacement fish.  
 One of the most productive food fish, tra didn’t have the
best reputation when they were introduced to European diners.
Greenberg’s translator told him this joke:  
 Question: “How do you tell a farmed fish from a wild
fish?”  
 Answer: “The farmed fish is cross-eyed from staring up at
the hole in the outhouse.”  
 Tra eat poop, or more gently, “decaying organic matter.”
They can also breathe air. Tra are fine for “not-so-discerning
palates,” as Greenberg says, but they don’t measure up to cod
in texture.  
 Tilapia, on the other hand, have the same “mouth feel” as
cod and breed like rabbits, so they are an even better
replacement. They are what humans should have chosen instead of
cod as the everyday fish used in foods like the  McDonald’s 
Filet-O-Fish.  
 Drug Trade  
 Native to Africa, the increasingly popular and easily
farmed tilapia spread to Latin America, where Greenberg is told
they got caught up in the drug trade.  
 A fish farmer explains, “If you put a Gel-Pak of cocaine
in a crate full of tilapia filets, can a drug-sniffing dog find
it? Nope.”  
 When it comes to eating animals, people have focused mainly
on four mammals -- pigs, sheep, goats and cattle -- and four
birds -- chickens, turkeys, ducks and geese. According to
anthropologists, even cavemen knew that when choosing animals to
domesticate, they should pick varieties that met certain
criteria such as hardiness and the ability to breed easily.  
 Yet in the 1960s, humans decided that “any species could
and should be tamed,” Greenberg writes. Like cod, sea bass were
a poor choice for farming, failing every one of the criteria for
domestication.  
 Fish Doctor  
 Cue Israeli endocrinologist  Yonathan Zohar , who tells
Greenberg he is “like ob-gyn for fish.” Zohar is responsible
for synthesizing a polymer-based sphere with a hormone that is
slowly released into the bloodstream to make sea bass spawn in
captivity, which they don’t normally do.  
 Zohar is just one of many quirky characters Greenberg uses
in “Four Fish” to walk you through the modern seafood dilemma.
He guides you toward commonsense food choices while entertaining
you with stories of fish porn, Sea-Monkeys and dynamite.  
 “Four Fish” is from the  Penguin Press  (284 pages,
$25.95). To buy this book in North America, click  here .  
 ( Alix Greenwald  is an intern at Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer on this story:
 Alix Greenwald  in New York at 
 agreenwald5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       'Four Fish: The Future of the Last Wild Food'  
                       
                         
                           Penguin Press via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The cover jacket of "Four Fish: The Future of the Last Wild Food." The book is the latest by author and columnist Paul Greenberg. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The cover jacket of "Four Fish: The Future of the Last Wild Food." The book is the latest by author and columnist Paul Greenberg. Source: Penguin Press via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Paul Greenberg  
                       
                         
                           Laura Straus/Penguin Press via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Author Paul Greenberg. Greenberg's latest book is "Four Fish: The Future of the Last Wild Food." 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Author Paul Greenberg. Greenberg's latest book is "Four Fish: The Future of the Last Wild Food." Photographer: Laura Straus/Penguin Press via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
