-- Qatar Commercial Bank Second-Quarter Profit Advances 23%, Beats Estimates
-- Robert Tuttle
-- 2010-07-27T11:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/qatar-commercial-bank-second-quarter-profit-advances-23-beats-estimates.html

          
          
             Commercial Bank of Qatar  reported a
23 percent increase in second-quarter profit, beating analysts’
estimates, as the country’s second-biggest lender by assets
reduced funds it set aside to cover loan losses.  
 Net income  rose to 408 million riyals ($112 million), the
Doha-based bank said in an e-mailed statement, after a profit of
333 million riyals a year earlier. That exceeded the median
estimate of seven analysts for a profit of 371 million riyals,
according to data compiled by  Bloomberg .  
 “We are satisfied that the business is delivering
sustained levels of profitability,” Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew Stevens  said in a phone interview today. “The improving
trends we saw in the first two quarters give us confidence the
performance will be maintained.”  
 As Qatari banks suffered from losses related to the global
economic slowdown, the country’s government last year bolstered
them by taking equity stakes and agreeing to buy the banks’
real-estate portfolios.  Qatar National Bank SAQ , the country’s
biggest lender by assets, posted a 36 percent rise in second-
quarter profit, beating analysts’ forecasts.  
 Commercial Bank cut net provisions for loans and advances
to 61 million riyals in the first half from 202 million riyals a
year earlier and now classifies non-performing loans as 90 days
past due rather than 180 days, according to the statement.  
 The reclassification was to comply with international
practices and central bank requirements, Stevens said. The bank
plans further provisions for loans in the second half of the
year, he said.  
 ‘Positive’ Figures  
 Loans and advances to customers rose to 33.3 billion riyals
on June 30, up 4 percent from a year earlier, the bank said.
Deposits increased 1.3 percent to 30.4 billion riyals.  
 “The balance sheet figures are very positive because
deposit and lending growth was stronger than we expected,”
Sofia El Boury, a banking analyst at Shuaa Capital PSC, said in
a telephone interview. Shuaa Capital predicted net income of 363
million riyals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Net operating income dropped to 1.24 billion riyals in the
first half from 1.5 billion riyals a year earlier. Operating
income in the first half of last year included a gain of 165
million riyals from the sale of real-estate assets and dividend
of 56 million riyals from equities sold to the government,
according to the statement.  
 Commercial Bank plans no bond issuances this year after
raising $1.6 billion in a bond sale last year to repay a $380
million syndicated loan facility, Stevens said.  
 The bank issued 10.3 million new ordinary shares earlier
this year to Qatar Holding, a unit of the country’s sovereign
wealth fund, increasing the government’s stake in the bank to
9.1 percent, the lender said.  
 Commercial Bank shares  rose 0.6 percent to close at 67.7
riyals before the results were announced. The stock has gained
9.6 percent this year, compared with a 6 percent increase in the
 Qatar Exchange Banking Sector Index .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        