-- Rajaratnam Accuses Prosecutors of Misleading Judges Who Allowed Wiretaps
-- David Glovin
-- 2010-07-27T21:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/rajaratnam-judge-hears-arguments-on-effort-to-bar-government-wiretaps.html

          
          
             Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam ’s attorney said prosecutors misled the judges
who authorized secret wiretaps that form the basis of a federal
insider-trading probe.  
 Before arresting Rajaratnam last year, prosecutors secretly
recorded roughly 2,400 conversations that the hedge fund
executive had with more than 130 friends, business associates
and alleged accomplices. Prosecutors have said their evidence
against Rajaratnam will include testimony from government
witnesses who were heard swapping illegal stock tips with
Rajaratnam as well as the recordings themselves.  
 In Manhattan federal court today, Rajaratnam’s attorney
 John Dowd  argued that prosecutors violated federal law by
misleading judges who allowed the secret wiretaps about the
background of  Roomy Khan , the ex- Intel Corp.  executive whose
disclosures prompted the investigation. He said an FBI agent
omitted or distorted important evidence in order to win
permission to tap Rajaratnam’s phone.  
 “These are facts that any judge would want to know,” Dowd
told U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell , who is presiding over
the case. The arguments were continuing this afternoon.  
 Rajaratnam, 53, is accused of using secret information from
insiders to make millions of dollars on illegal stock trades.
 Danielle Chiesi , a former consultant at New Castle Funds LLC who
was arrested with Rajaratnam, is also seeking to exclude the
wiretaps. Both have denied wrongdoing.  
 21 Defendants  
 The case has led to charges against 21 people. Twelve
pleaded guilty, and several agreed to testify against
Rajaratnam. He faces more than 20 years in prison if convicted
of securities fraud and other crimes.  
 The prosecution is the first in which the government has
used secret intercepts of telephone calls to investigate and
prosecute insider trading. A prosecutor said after Rajaratnam’s
arrest in October that the wiretaps show him engaging in “a
veritable smorgasbord of insider trading.”  
 Dowd said in court that prosecutors and a Federal Bureau of
Investigation agent concealed Khan’s criminal record, her seven-
year history of cooperating with the government, her “flip-
flopping” during interviews and her efforts to escape
punishment. Had prosecutors made those disclosures, the wiretaps
wouldn’t have been approved, he argued in court.  
 ‘Some Force’  
 “There’s some force to defendant’s arguments,” Holwell
said, while adding that he need not exclude the recordings at
the trial even if he finds that the government should have been
more forthcoming in its wiretap applications.  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky told Holwell that the
legal threshold for prosecutors to obtain a wiretap is a
“relaxed” one. He said the judges who weighed the wiretap
requests were dealing “in probabilities,” not “certainties,”
that Rajaratnam had broken the law.  
 Brodsky also accused the defense of engaging in a “hyper-
technical” legal analysis and of advancing an “absurd”
argument. Responding to Dowd’s claim that the prosecutors failed
to disclose Khan’s prior insider trading conviction, he said the
facts of that earlier case would also support the government’s
wiretap request.  
 If Rajaratnam is able to exclude the wiretaps, defense
lawyers may seek to block evidence the government developed
after hearing the recordings. Even if the defense prevails,
prosecutors may offer testimony from Khan, who first met with
the government years before Rajaratnam was charged, and other
witnesses.  
 Rajaratnam’s lawyers also argue that Congress never
authorized the use of wiretaps, commonly employed in terrorism
or organized crime investigations, in securities-fraud cases.  
 The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Glovin  in federal court in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        