-- Ratings Understate `Dangerous' Chinese Local Government Risks, Dagong Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-27T05:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/ratings-don-t-reflect-debt-risk-of-local-chinese-governments-dagong-says.html

          
          
             Credit ratings assigned to yuan-
denominated bonds issued on behalf of local governments in China
are misleading and don’t reflect risks investors face,  Dagong
Global Credit Rating Co.’s  chairman said.  
 Local government-backed borrowers shop around for the best
rankings from Chinese ratings companies and “whoever gives them
a better rating gets the business,” Guan Jianzhong, chairman of
privately owned Dagong, one of China’s five official ratings
agencies, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Beijing
yesterday. “This is very dangerous.”  
 Guan’s comments show growing concern at credit risks
stemming from a record borrowing binge spurred by China’s
efforts to revive economic growth during the global recession.
Chinese banks may struggle to recoup about 23 percent of the 7.7
trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) lent to finance local
infrastructure projects, according to a person with knowledge of
data collected by the China Banking Regulatory Commission.  
 “It reflects the lack of transparency in local-government
finance,”  Tom Orlik , a Beijing-based China economist at Stone &
McCarthy Research Associates, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s very difficult to get an accurate gauge of the repayment
capacity either of the local government financing vehicles or of
the local governments themselves.”  
 Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings drew criticism in the U.S. from investors and officials
including Financial Crisis Inquiry Chairman  Phil Angelides  for
assigning top rankings to mortgage-linked securities that
crashed when the U.S. housing market collapsed in 2007.  
 No Junk  
 “In China most companies can’t issue junk bonds, they have
to be at least AA to apply for debt issuance,” Guan said. Local
governments set up financing vehicles to fund projects such as
highways and airports with bonds and loans, due to limits on
their ability to directly borrow money.  
 According to China Lianhe Credit Rating Co., 43 urban
construction companies affiliated with municipalities,
provincial and prefecture-level cities, as well as counties,
issued bonds totaling 59.2 billion yuan ($8.7 billion) in the
first half of 2010. Of the 72 corporate bonds sold in the first
half, 70 were rated AA or above, Lianhe said.  
 China has more than 1,000 county-level governments and
hundreds of city and municipal councils that get revenue from
local taxes, land sales and central-government transfers.
Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s crackdown to prevent a real-estate bubble
has left cities such as Tianjin, southeast of Beijing, reeling
as revenues slump from land sales, which made up 41 percent of
income in 2009.  
 Danger Signals  
 “If you look at the financial crisis, it was caused by an
accumulation of credit risks,” said Guan. “When it gets to a
certain point, then a crisis breaks out.”  
 China this year restricted borrowing on concern money isn’t
being used for viable projects. While Dagong expects defaults on
bank loans used to fund infrastructure construction, there won’t
be a risk to the banking system as regulation has improved, he
said.  
 Financing vehicles linked to local governments issue bonds
in China’s exchange-traded and interbank markets. These notes
are bought by asset managers, securities firms and other
institutional investors. Commercial banks are restricted to
buying in the interbank market.  
 Beijing-based Dagong gave China’s government a higher debt
rating than the U.S., U.K. or Japan in a report covering 50
nations it published this month.  
 Two other big ratings companies in China are tie-ups with
international partners. China Chengxin International Credit
Rating Co. is a joint venture with Moody’s Corp., and China
Lianhe Credit Rating is a joint venture partner with Fitch
Ratings Ltd. Foreign ratings firms aren’t allowed to directly
rate Chinese domestic currency bonds.  
 Dagong has applied to the Securities and Exchange
Commission to start ratings coverage in the U.S. The firm
expects a final SEC decision in September.  
 -- Henry Sanderson , with assistance from  Stephen Engle  in Beijing.
Editors:  Hugh Chow ,  Tom Kohn   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Guan Jianzhong, chairman of Dagong Global Credit Rating, poses for a portrait at the company's office in Beijing. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
