-- Real Rally Fuels Speculation Brazil to Step Into Futures Market
-- Andre Soliani Costa
-- 2010-07-27T20:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/real-s-two-month-rally-fuels-speculation-meirelles-to-enter-futures-market.html

          
          
             A two-month rally in the Brazilian
real is spurring speculation the central bank will buy dollars
in the futures market for the first time in 14 months.  
 Central bank officials called currency traders on July 23
to gauge their demand for so-called reverse currency swaps,
which allow policy makers to sell the real for dollars in the
futures market, according to BNP Paribas, Nomura Securities
International Inc. and CM Capital Markets.  
 The 6.2 percent appreciation of the real in the past two
months, the most since October, is driving central bank
President  Henrique Meirelles  to increase efforts to stem the
gains and protect exports after the current account deficit
widened to a record high in June, according to BNP Paribas.  
 “The central bank has been intervening in the spot market
very aggressively, but it wasn’t enough,”  Flavia Cattan- Naslausky , a currency strategist with RBS Greenwich Capital
Markets in Stamford, Connecticut, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s not working. They may signal to the market they are
prepared to do more. The market should be worried.”  
 A central bank official declined to comment yesterday.  
 The two-month gain trimmed the real’s decline this year to
1.5 percent. The currency soared 33 percent in 2009, prompting
the government to impose taxes on foreigners’ purchases of bonds
and stocks. It’s up 101 percent since President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  took office in 2003, the biggest increase among major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The real fell 0.5 percent today
to 1.7713 per dollar.  
 ‘Psychological Effect’  
 In reverse currency swaps, the central bank pays investors
the Brazilian overnight interbank rate, now at 10.75 percent, in
reais and receives a fixed interest rate in dollars. The central
bank last sold the contracts on May 5, 2009, helping spark a 1
percent slide in the real that day.  
 “It’s another channel for intervention,” said  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at CM Capital Markets in Sao Paulo.
“There’s also a psychological effect. It shows investors that
they are looking for other options for intervention.”  
 Rostagno said the central bank is trying to prevent the
real from surpassing 1.75 per dollar.  
 International investors  boosted their bullish bets on the
currency to a two-year high yesterday, making 135,933 more
wagers on the real gaining than falling, data from the
BMFBovespa SA exchange in Sao Paulo show.  
 “The market will, for sure, test” the central bank’s
“willingness” to stop the currency’s gain, analysts at Nomura
Securities Inc. wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  
 Mantega Comments  
 Brazil’s deficit in the  current account , the broadest
measure of trade in goods and services, widened to a record
$40.9 billion in the 12 months through June from $36.3 billion
in the year through May, the central bank said yesterday. As a
percentage of gross domestic product, the gap rose to 2.1
percent, the biggest since September 2002.  
 Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in Brasilia
today that the current account deficit will lead to a
“devaluation” of the real. He said while he favored buying
dollars in the futures market, it was up to the central bank.  
 Speculation policy makers will start futures market sales
pushed dollar loan rates in Brazil, known as Cupom Cambial, down
the most in two years yesterday. Yields on the Cupom Cambial
contracts due in January fell 26 basis points, or 0.26
percentage point, to 1.79 percent on concern central bank swap
sales would increase currency hedging costs for investors
depositing their dollars in Brazil. It fell another four basis
points to 1.75 percent today.  
 Extra Yield  
 The  gap  between the yield and borrowing costs in the London
interbank lending market narrowed to 109 basis points yesterday
from a four-month high of 135 on July 23.  
 The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell seven
basis points to 197, the lowest level since May, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps dropped four basis
points to 116 yesterday, the lowest level in three months,
according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January fell four basis points to 10.85 percent, implying
traders expect the central bank to raise the overnight rate,
known as Selic, to about 11 percent by year-end.  
 Dollar Purchases  
 Policy makers have boosted the Selic 200 basis points this
year, giving the country the second-highest inflation-adjusted
interest rate after Croatia among the 53 economies tracked by
Bloomberg.  
 The central bank tripled daily dollar purchases in the spot
market this year, buying $14.7 billion to stem the real’s rally,
according to the bank’s website.  
 “They are trying to avoid pressure for more serious
distortions,” said  Diego Donadio , a senior Latin America
analyst at BNP Paribas in Sao Paulo. Reverse currency swaps
would create another “source of dollar buying,” he said. “In
the short term, it’s going to curb the appreciation of the
real.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at   yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at  at
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     President of the central bank of Brazil Henrique Meirelles. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
