-- Three Former General Electric Bankers Are Indicted in Bid-Rigging Inquiry
-- Martin Z. Braun
-- 2010-07-27T21:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/three-former-general-electric-bankers-are-indicted-in-bid-rigging-inquiry.html

          
          
             Three former bankers with a General
Electric Co. unit that sold investment contracts to state and
local governments were indicted for conspiring to rig bidding to
profit at taxpayers’ expense, the Justice Department said today.  
 Dominick P. Carollo, Steven E. Goldberg and  Peter S. Grimm ,
all of whom once worked for finance units of General Electric,
were charged with fraud and conspiracy, the Justice Department
said. The three allegedly worked with brokers hired by local
governments to solicit competitive bids for investment deals, in
order to win the bidding and increase their profits.  
 “The individuals charged today allegedly participated in
complex fraud schemes and conspiracies to manipulate what was
supposed to be a competitive process,”  Christine Varney ,
assistant attorney general in charge of the Department of
Justice’s Antitrust Division, said in a statement.  
 The charges show the broadening scope of the Justice
Department’s investigation into whether Wall Street conspired
with financial advisers to hold down the returns on investment
contracts sold to local governments. Municipalities purchase the
contracts with money raised by selling bonds, allowing them to
earn a return until the money is needed for schools, roads and
other public works.  
 In May, a former banker with UBS AG pleaded guilty to
participating in a conspiracy to rig bids and pay state and
local governments below-market returns on investment deals.  
 CDR Indictment  
 In October, prosecutors indicted Los Angeles-based CDR
Financial Products Inc., founder  David Rubin , its former chief
financial officer and a vice president for taking kickbacks for
running sham auctions for the investments. All three men are
fighting the charges. In February and March, three other CDR
employees entered guilty pleas and agreed to cooperate in the
investigation.  
 Units of Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric , the
world’s biggest maker of jet engines, were among the more than
dozen banks and financial companies that carved up the market
for so-called guaranteed investment contracts, according to a
Justice Department list of co-conspirators that was filed in
federal court on March 24 and sealed.  
 The U.S. Treasury Department encourages public bidding
for GICs to ensure that localities are paid proper
market rates. Banks that conspired in the bid rigging for GICs
paid kickbacks to CDR ranging from $4,500 to $475,000 per deal
in at least 10 different transactions, government court-filed
documents say.  
 Under Seal  
 General Electric isn’t identified by name in today’s
indictment. Goldberg, Grimm and Carollo are identified as
working for “Provider B,” which was cited in the Justice
Department list -- later put under seal -- as the guaranted-
investment-contract units of GE.  
 A secretary at Grimm’s most-recent employer, Wayne, New
Jersey-based Lamont Financial Services Corp., said he wasn’t
immediately available to comment.  John Siffert , an attorney for
Goldberg, declined to comment. Carollo couldn’t immediately be
reached to comment.  
 The Justice Department said the case is continuing.  
 “We will continue to prosecute those who engage in such
illegal and anticompetitive behavior,” said Varney.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        