-- Japan's Refining Reaches 10-Week High as Producers Restart Idled Factories
-- Yuji Okada
-- 2010-07-28T16:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/refining-hits-10-week-high-as-japan-starts-idled-factories-energy-markets.html

          
          
             Oil refining in Japan, the world’s
third-largest consumer of crude, rose to a 10-week high as
producers resume operations after maintenance shutdowns.  
 The nation’s refiners were using more than 75 percent of
capacity in the week ended July 17, the highest rate since May
8, according to  data  from the Petroleum Association of Japan.
That compares with this year’s low of less than 62 percent in
the week ended June 19.  
 Japan’s largest crude-oil processor JX Holdings Inc. and
competitors are bringing units back online after a drop in
demand allowed them to carry out plant repairs and upgrades.
Refining margins slumped more than 31 percent between July and
August last year as plants started production, according to
futures prices on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange.  
 “Margins aren’t likely to be as good,” said  Kawachi Hirofumi , a senior energy analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities
Co. in Tokyo. “Refiners’ business results will be potentially
affected by the weakening margins.”  
 Shutdowns helped spur a more than 5 percent increase in
refining margins this year as the  economy  recovered from a 5.2
percent contraction in 2009. The profit from turning crude oil
into gasoline climbed to 21.1 yen a liter in April, or 90 cents
a gallon, the highest level in 22 months, according to data
compiled by the  Ministry of Finance  and  Oil Information Center .
In May, the margin was 20.9 yen, up from less than 20 yen at the
start of the year and minus 7.6 yen in November 2008.  
 Margins to Worsen  
 “Refinery shutdowns concentrated in the April-June period
balanced supply and demand,”  Tsutomu Sugimori , senior vice
president for JX Holdings’ refining unit  JX Nippon Oil and
Energy Corp. , told reporters in Tokyo on June 30. “Those
refineries are coming back online and margins are likely to
worsen from July onward.”  
 When idled plants started producing last year, prices
tumbled. The profit from turning three barrels of Middle East
crude into two of gasoline and one of fuel oil, dropped to 6,290
yen per kiloliter on Aug. 7, from 9,163 yen on July 23, Tokyo
Commodity Exchange  futures prices  show.  
 Gasoline stockpiles rose by 1 percent in the seven days
through July 10, the first weekly gain in seven, Petroleum
Association of Japan data showed.  
 Nippon Oil Corp., which merged with Nippon Mining Holdings
Inc. in April to form JX Holdings, posted a pretax loss,
excluding inventory-valuation gains, of 111.3 billion yen ($1.3
billion) for its refining business for the year ended March. The
Tokyo-based company said margins for gasoline and middle
distillates “drastically worsened.”  
 Share Declines  
 JX Holdings has lost more than 11 percent since making its
share debut in Tokyo on April 2.  TonenGeneral Sekiyu K.K. , 50
percent owned by Exxon Mobil Corp. and Japan’s second-largest
refiner, has dropped 15 percent in the past year.  Idemitsu Kosan
Co. , the third-biggest, has also fallen 15 percent.  
 “Slowing demand made it difficult for oil-product prices
to catch up with the gain in crude-oil prices and tainted
refining margins,” Shigeo Hirai , Nippon Oil’s then chief
financial officer, told reporters in January.  
 Crude is up almost 16 percent on the New York Mercantile
Exchange in the past 12 months, trading as high as $87.15 a
barrel on May 3. It touched $75.90, the lowest level since July
20, after the U.S. Energy Department said today that crude
inventories rose 2.1 percent in the week ended July 23.  
 Heat Waves  
 Higher-than-normal temperatures in Japan may buoy margins as
motorists take to the roads and factories burn more fuel oil to
power air conditioners, according to Hirofumi at Mizuho. Weather
patterns that caused heat waves from New York to China may be
headed for Japan, Hisashi Nakamura, an atmospheric scientist at
the University of Tokyo, said on July 16. The temperature in
Tokyo’s Otemachi financial district reached 36.3 degrees Celsius
(97.3 Fahrenheit) on July 21, the highest this year, according
to the Japan Meteorological Agency.  
 “Concerns over diminishing margins are slightly fading,
compared with a few weeks ago, because of the hot weather,”
said Hirofumi. “Consumers use more gasoline and power companies
burn more fuel oil during a hotter-than-usual summer.”  
 Sales of gasoline  rose 10 percent from a year earlier in
July 2004, when Tokyo temperatures reached a record of 39.5
degrees, according Trade Ministry data.  
 “It’s hard to forecast how margins would change,”  Akihiko Tembo , who is chairman of both the Petroleum Association of
Japan and refiner  Idemitsu Kosan Co. , told reporters in Tokyo on
July 15. “I wish the margins would remain at the April-June
level.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yuji Okada  in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Smoke rises out of a stack at a refinery in Kawasaki City. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
