-- Reliance Profit Growth May Peak on Failure to Raise Gas Output
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-07-28T10:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/reliance-industries-reports-first-quarter-profit-of-48-5-billion-rupees.html

          
          
             Earnings growth at  Reliance
Industries Ltd. , India’s largest company by market value, may
slow from the fastest pace in more than two years as the company
falls behind schedule to increase gas production, investors said.  
 Net income  in the three months ended June 30 surged 32
percent from a year earlier to 48.5 billion rupees ($1 billion),
the energy explorer and refiner said yesterday. Profit rose 3
percent from the previous quarter as Reliance failed to boost
natural gas output, said  Deven Choksey , chief executive officer
at K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. The shares fell.  
 The company based in Mumbai expects to increase output by
33 percent to 80 million cubic meters a day at India’s largest
gas field as late as 2012, two people with knowledge of the plan
said yesterday, at least two years behind schedule. Chairman
 Mukesh Ambani , Asia richest man, may step up acquisitions as
gains from gas sales and oil refining slow.  
 “With current gas production and refining profits
remaining stagnant, Reliance will look to new acquisitions for
growth,” said  Vikas Pershad , chief executive officer of
Chicago-based Veda Investments LLC in Chicago, which owns
Reliance shares. “Ramping up gas production has been slower
than expected.”  
 The billionaire has stepped up acquisitions after ending a
family dispute with his estranged brother,  Anil Ambani , over gas
supply from India’s biggest field. Reliance bought shale gas
assets in the U.S. from  Atlas Energy Inc.  and Pioneer Natural
Resources Co. this year and plans to build power plants.  
 Acquisitions, Expansion  
 Reliance also acquired Infotel Broadband Services Ltd.,
which has licenses to provide wireless services across India, in
June and Mukesh told shareholders the company is planning large
investments in power, including nuclear and solar energy.  
 Reliance , which has the biggest  weighting  in India’s
benchmark Sensitive Index, declined the most in almost two
months in Mumbai. The stock fell 3.1 percent to 1,021.25 rupees,
the biggest drop since June 1. The shares have declined 6.4
percent this year while the  index  gained 2.8 percent.  
 Gas production at the field began on April 2 last year and
output doubled in a year to about 60 million cubic meters a day.
P.M.S. Prasad, the head of Reliance’s oil and gas business, said
in March 2009 that the field would reach maximum output by the
end of that year.  Jitin Prasada , India’s junior oil minister,
told parliament in December that the peak rate of 80 million
maybe reached by the middle of 2010.  
 Gas Production  
 Production will remain at the current level until Reliance
completes a review of the reservoir and the company’s safety
procedures, Chief Financial Officer  Alok Agarwal  said yesterday
at a media briefing on the first-quarter earnings. He declined
to give a timeline for increasing output.  
 Increasing gas output to the peak level would add $1.1
billion in revenue each year, based on current prices of the
fuel in India.  
 “Unless Reliance can boost production in the coming
quarters there is an increasing risk that they miss earnings
expectations for this year,”  Neil Beveridge , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. in Hong Kong, said in a report. The
reservoir may be more complex than initially expected, he said.  
 Profit may rise 40 percent to 226.7 billion rupees in the
year ending March 31, according to the mean  estimate  of 19
analysts compiled by Bloomberg before the yesterday’s report.  
 ‘Dilute Returns’  
 “While U.S. shale gas and broadband represent new growth
opportunities for Reliance, we remain concerned that these
initiatives will dilute overall returns and strategic focus of
the group,” wrote Beveridge, who rates the shares “market
perform.” “Despite these negatives, Reliance will be drilling
some high impact deep water exploration wells in the KG (Krishna
Godavari) and Mahanadi Basins, which we remain positive on.”  
 Reliance said in December it found more gas in the Bay of
Bengal’s Krishna-Godavari basin and is evaluating the commercial
potential of the find.  
 Reliance said it earned $7.3 on every barrel of crude it
turned to fuels in the quarter compared with $6.8 a barrel a
year earlier. Global refining margins, or earnings from
processing oil into fuel, rose to $5.49 a barrel in the three-
month period from $3.08 a barrel in the quarter ended March 31,
according to data compiled by  BP Plc .  
 Gains from processing oil into fuels may remain stable in
the next three quarters, Aggarwal said yesterday.  
 Net sales in the quarter rose 86.7 percent to 582.3 billion
rupees, its highest ever in a three month period, Reliance said
in the statement. Sales from the company’s two refineries more
than doubled to 505.3 billion rupees from 244.3 billion rupees.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Reliance Industries Ltd chairman Mukesh D. Ambani. Photographer: Adam Berry/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
