-- Reserve Bank of India's Monetary Policy Statement Issued in Mumbai Today
-- 
-- 2010-07-27T06:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/reserve-bank-of-india-s-monetary-policy-statement-issued-in-mumbai-today.html

          
          
             The following is a
reformatted version of the full text of the statement
released today by the Reserve Bank of India.
Introduction  
 This First Quarter Review is being made in a
macroeconomic environment that has changed significantly
since our April policy announcement. At that time, there
was some optimism about the sustainability of the global
recovery, however modest the pace may be. This was
reinforced by the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
forecasts published earlier this month, which suggested
that global growth would be marginally higher than their
April 2010 projection. While most of that would come from
emerging market economies (EMEs), the advanced economies
would hold steady. However, in the aftermath of the Greek
sovereign debt crisis and other visible soft spots in
Europe and the US, there is renewed uncertainty about the
sustainability of the recovery.
2.     In contrast, on the domestic front, the recovery has
consolidated and is becoming increasingly broad-based.
There are rising concerns about capacity constraints
being reached over a wide range of sectors. While
inflationary pressures have also risen, the performance
of the monsoon so far has been significantly better than
during last year. While rainfall is still below the long
period average at the all-India level, it has been enough
to induce a significant increase in sown area across a
range of crops, the high prices of which have been a
source of great worry.
3.     The dominant concern that has shaped the monetary
policy stance in this review is high inflation. Even as
food price inflation and, more generally, consumer price
inflation have shown some moderation, they are still in
double digits. Non-food inflation has risen and demand
side pressures are clearly evident. With growth taking
firm hold, the balance of policy stance has to shift
decisively to containing inflation and anchoring
inflationary expectations.
4.     This policy review should be read and understood
together with the detailed review in Macroeconomic and
Monetary Developments released yesterday by
the Reserve Bank. This statement is organized in four
sections: Section I provides an overview of the global
and domestic macroeconomic developments; Section II sets
out the outlook and projections for growth, inflation and
monetary aggregates; Section III explains the stance of
monetary policy; and Section IV specifies the monetary
measures.  
 I. The State of the Economy
Global Economy
5.     In its July Update of the World Economic Outlook
(WEO), the  IMF raised its global growth projection for
2010 to 4.6 per cent from its April projection of 4.2 per
cent on the strength of Q1 growth rates. However, the
IMF’s expectation of slightly faster global growth is
largely driven by somewhat greater optimism about EMEs.
Several assessments of advanced economies show increasing
pessimism about the sustainability of the current pace of
recovery. There is widespread expectation of a slowdown
of the global economy in the second half of 2010.
6.     In the US, recovery remains constrained by high
unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing wealth
and tight credit. In the euro area, economic activity is
weak, though more resilient than expected in the face of
the recent turbulence. The growth outlook remains clouded
by concerns about the sustainability of sovereign debt in
some of the euro area economies.
7.     In contrast, EMEs are witnessing strong growth,
driven by strong domestic demand, restocking of
inventories and, thus far, recovering global trade.
In many EMEs, especially in Asia, growth is fast
approaching the trend. Robust macroeconomic fundamentals,
unimpaired balance sheets of corporates and households,
sound banking sector and effective fiscal and monetary
stimuli contributed to a significantly faster recovery in
EMEs.
8.     Inflation in advanced economies is subdued due to
large output gaps and
high unemployment rates. Inflation expectations also
remain well anchored. In contrast, inflation in EMEs has
been rising due to fast emerging capacity constraints,
prompting many to reverse their expansionary monetary
policies.
Domestic Economy
9.     The Indian economy grew by 7.4 per cent in 2009-10.
The momentum was particularly pronounced in Q4 of 2009-10
with growth at 8.6 per cent as compared with 6.5 per cent
in the previous quarter. At constant market prices, the
pick-up in Q4 growth was even sharper at 11.2 per cent,
reflecting a significant turnaround in indirect tax
collections.
10.      The double digit growth in the Index of Industrial
Production (IIP) that began in October 2009 continued
during the current financial year although there was
modest deceleration in May 2010. In the first two months
of this fiscal,
April-May 2010, the IIP recorded a year-on-year growth of
14 per cent with as many as fifteen out of the seventeen
industry groups (two digits NIC classification) showing
positive growth. The lead indicators of service sector
also suggest increased economic activity.
11.     The cumulative rainfall has been 14 per cent below
its long-period average (LPA) during the current monsoon
season so far (as on July 21, 2010). Even so, monsoon
performance has been much better than it was last year,
which augurs well for agricultural production. Data on
crop-wise area, indicate a significant increase over the
relatively low levels of last year.
12.     However, the current inflation scenario is worrisome
for a number of reasons. First, WPI inflation has been in
double digits since February 2010. Headline inflation, as
measured by year-on-year variation in WPI, rose to 10.6
per cent in June 2010, up from
10.2 per cent in May 2010. Notably, WPI inflation based
on revised data for
March at 11.0 per cent and for April at 11.2 per cent,
were higher by over one percentage point as compared with
the provisional numbers. If this pattern continues, final
WPI inflation numbers for recent months can be expected
to be higher.
13.     Second, even as primary food articles inflation
continues to be in double digits (14.6 per cent), year-
on-year WPI non-food manufactured products (weight: 52.2
per cent) inflation, which was (-) 0.4 per cent in
November 2009, rose sharply thereafter to 5.4 per cent in
March 2010 and further to 7.3 per cent in June 2010. Non-
food items inflation (WPI excluding food products and
food articles), which was near zero in November 2009,
rose sharply to 10.6 per cent by June 2010.
Significantly, non-food items contributed over
70 per cent to WPI inflation in June 2010, suggesting
that inflation is now
very much generalised. Third, notwithstanding some
moderation in recent months, consumer price inflation,
measured by various indices, remains in double digits.
14.     Money supply (M3) growth on a year-on-year basis
moderated from
16.8 per cent at end-March 2010 to 15.3 per cent as on
July 2, 2010 reflecting a slowdown in the growth in bank
deposits. Time deposits decelerated mainly because of
withdrawal of deposits by public sector undertakings and
mutual funds. In order to finance higher credit growth in
the face of declining deposit growth, banks unwound their
investments in mutual funds and accessed the repo window
of the Reserve Bank.
15.     Year-on-year non-food credit growth accelerated from
17.1 per cent in March 2010 to 22.3 per cent as on July
2, 2010, which was higher than the indicative trajectory
of 20 per cent set out in the April 2010 Monetary Policy
Statement. This reflects the combined impact of a pick-up
in industrial activity and financing of the 3G and
broadband wireless access (BWA) spectrum auctions. The
increase in bank credit to the commercial sector has also
been supplemented by higher flow of funds from other
sources. Rough estimates show that the total flow of
financial resources from banks, non-banks and external
sources to the commercial sector during Q1 of 2010-11 was
at Rs.2,50,000 crore as against Rs.61,000 crore during Q1
of 2009-10. Disaggregated data suggest that credit growth
to all major sectors such as agriculture, industry,
services and personal loans had begun to improve from
November 2009 onwards.
16.     On the deposit side, banks increased their term
deposit rates by
75-100 basis points between March 2010 and July 16, 2010.
On the lending side, benchmark prime lending rates
(BPLRs) of scheduled commercial banks remained unchanged
from July 2009 till end-June 2010. The banking system
switched over to the Base Rate system with effect from
July 1, 2010. The Base Rates set by major banks are in
the range of 7.25-8.0 per cent. While information on
effective lending rates to major categories of borrowers
is not yet available, it is expected that the Base Rate
system will make credit pricing more efficient. Further,
it will enhance transparency in lending rates and improve
monetary policy transmission.
17.     Money markets remained orderly during Q1 of 2010-11.
A significant development was that the Liquidity
Adjustment Facility (LAF) window of the Reserve Bank,
after remaining in surplus mode for nearly 18 months,
switched into deficit mode towards the end of May 2010
and has remained there since. This liquidity pressure was
triggered by the increase in government cash balances on
account of larger than expected 3G and BWA spectrum
auction receipts combined with advance tax payments.
18.     Consistent with the stance of active liquidity
management and in order to prevent a disruption in credit
flow, the Reserve Bank took several measures to ease the
pressure. First, on May 26, 2010, the Reserve Bank
announced additional liquidity support under the LAF to
scheduled commercial banks to the extent of up to 0.5 per
cent of their net demand and time liabilities (NDTL). A
second LAF (SLAF) was also made available on a daily
basis. Both these facilities, which were initially
available till July 2, 2010, were later extended. While
the additional liquidity support facility was extended up
to July 16, 2010, the SLAF remains extended up to July
30, 2010. Second, in consultation with the Government,
the notified amounts for the issuance of Treasury Bills
during June 2010 were reduced by Rs.22,000 crore. Third,
during June 16-21, 2010, the Government bought back
securities worth Rs.9,614 crore, ahead of schedule.
19.     There was net injection of liquidity by the Reserve
Bank in June and July 2010 (up to July 23). As a result,
overnight interest rates, which generally remained around
the floor of the LAF corridor up to May, moved up to the
ceiling of the corridor in June 2010 and have remained
there in July 2010 so far. Similarly, yields on other
money market instruments increased, reflecting autonomous
tightening of monetary conditions by 150 basis points,
equivalent to the prevailing width of the LAF corridor.
20.     At the longer end of the market, the monthly average
yield on the 10-year benchmark government security fell
to 7.59 per cent in June 2010 from
8.01 per cent in April 2010 in the expectation that the
Government will reduce market borrowing because of higher
realisations from spectrum auctions. Subsequently, the
yield moved up to 7.73 per cent by the third week of July
2010.
21.     Equity markets exhibited volatile conditions during
the current financial year, although they have firmed up
in recent weeks. Resource mobilisation by the corporates
through public issues in the primary segment of the
capital market continued its uptrend. The foreign
exchange market saw volatility increase relative to the
previous quarter, with
the rupee showing two-way movements in the range of
Rs.44.33-Rs.47.57 per
US dollar.
22.     During the first quarter of 2010-11, both the nominal
and real  effective exchange rates (NEER and REER) have
appreciated. While the appreciation in 36-currency
NEER/REER at about 1.5 per cent (up to May) was similar,
real appreciation on the basis of 6-currency REER was
higher at 3.3 per cent as compared with 6-currency NEER
appreciation of 1.4 per cent, reflecting higher inflation
differentials between India and major advanced economies.
23.     Of the budgeted net market borrowing of the Central
Government for 2010-11 at Rs. 3,45,010 crore, about 38.5
per cent (Rs.1,32,900 crore) of the borrowing was
completed by mid-July 2010. As against the budgeted
amount of Rs 35,000 crore, the actual realisations under
3G and BWA auctions were about Rs. 1,06,000 crore,
resulting in an increase in receipts by over one per cent
of GDP. It is, however, important to ensure that this
one-off increase does not slacken the much needed efforts
towards fiscal consolidation.
24.     During the first two months of 2010-11, both exports
and imports continued to expand in contrast to the
contraction they showed during the corresponding period
of last year. The trade deficit widened during April-May
2010 to US$ 21.7 billion, up from
US$ 14.4 billion in the corresponding period of the
previous year, reflecting the sustained increase in
domestic activity.  
 II. Outlook and Projections
Global Outlook
Growth
25.     In its July Update of the World Economic Outlook, the
IMF revised upwards its growth projection for the global
economy for 2010 to 4.6 per cent from 4.2 per cent in
April 2010 on the strength of robust Q1 growth. However,
as indicated earlier, recent data and analysis suggest
slowing down of the global growth momentum and the
expectation is that global growth in the second half of
2010 will be lower than that in the first half.
Inflation
26.     Just like growth, inflation around the world too has
been multi-speed. The inflation scenario in advanced
economies has been shaped by high unemployment, low
capacity utilisation and renewed uncertainties about the
financial sector. Headline inflation in advanced
economies, which inched up during January-March 2010,
softened thereafter. Inflation expectations too remain
well anchored; indeed, concerns about deflation have re-
emerged in some of the advanced economies. In contrast,
the relatively rapid recovery in EMEs has also been
accompanied by faster growth in prices.
27.     Significantly, with increasing uncertainty about the
pace of global recovery, global energy and commodity
prices have softened. This trend has been reinforced by
the slowdown of the Chinese economy. Consequently, global
inflationary pressures are expected to be subdued over
the next few months.
Domestic Outlook
Growth
28.     The growth prospects of the Indian economy have
improved since April
2010. Although cumulative rainfall so far has been 14 per
cent below the LPA, the monsoon has been better than
during last year. Should overall monsoon performance turn
out to be as projected (102 per cent of LPA), there will
be a pick-up in rural demand. This should give further
momentum to the performance of the industrial sector,
which has been growing firmly since October 2009.
29.     Growth in exports, which turned positive in October
2009, picked up further in subsequent months despite
concerns over the external demand outlook due to the
sovereign debt problem in euro area. Service sector
activities have also shown buoyancy since the latter half
of 2009-10. The leading indicators of various services
have shown significant improvements.
30.      The strength of the recovery is also reflected in
the sales and profitability growth of the corporate
sector. Besides replenishment of inventories, investment
intentions are being translated into action across
sectors, particularly in power, telecom and metals.
Increase in resource mobilisation by the commercial
sector from both banks and non-banks and the widening of
the current account deficit also suggest strong
underlying growth momentum.
31.     Domestic drivers of growth are robust. However, if
the global recovery slows down, it will affect all EMEs,
including India, through the usual exports, financing and
confidence channels.
32.     Taking into account the progress of monsoon so far
and the prevailing global macroeconomic scenario, for
policy purposes, the baseline projection of real GDP
growth for 2010-11 is revised to 8.5 per cent, up from
8.0 per cent with an upside bias as indicated in April
2010 policy statement (Chart 1). This upward revision is
primarily based on better industrial production and its
favourable impact on the services sector, giving due
consideration to the global scenario.  
 33.     The Reserve Bank’s growth projection for 2010-11 is
consistent with the median growth forecast from its
professional forecasters’ survey and other agencies. It
must be noted that the IMF growth forecast for India at
9.4 per cent for calendar 2010 is based on GDP at market
prices, whereas other projections, including that of the
Reserve Bank, are based on GDP at factor cost. Adjusting
for this, the IMF projections are in line with others.
Inflation
34.     WPI inflation moved to double digits in February 2010
and has remained there since then. Even as food price
inflation and consumer price inflation remain at elevated
levels, inflation is now being significantly driven by
demand side factors.
35.     In its policy statement of April 2010, the Reserve
Bank had placed the baseline projection for WPI inflation
for March 2011 at 5.5 per cent. Subsequently, there has
been an increase in prices of many administered/regulated
items
such as petroleum products, iron ore and electricity. The
recent partial deregulation and increase in administered
prices of petroleum products is welcome from the long-
term fiscal consolidation and energy conservation
perspective. Nevertheless, it will have an inflationary
impact in the short term. Assuming that global crude oil
prices remain stable, the immediate impact on inflation
will be about one percentage point on WPI inflation, with
second round effects coming through in the months ahead.
36.     Minimum support prices (MSPs) for some agricultural
commodities have also been increased to incentivise
farmers. Food price inflation has remained at an elevated
level for over a year now, reflecting structural
bottlenecks in certain commodities such as pulses, milk
and vegetables. The Reserve Bank’s quarterly inflation
expectation survey conducted during the first fortnight
of June 2010 indicates that short-term inflationary
expectations have increased marginally.
37.     Going forward, the outlook on inflation will be
shaped by the following factors. First, the spatial and
temporal distribution of rainfall in the remaining period
of south-west monsoon 2010 is critical. A good kharif
harvest will act as a major dampener on short-term food
price inflation. Second, global energy and commodity
prices have been showing distinct signs of softening over
the past few weeks as expectations of global growth have
moderated. If energy prices continue to decline, this
will offset the inflationary impact of the recent fuel
price hike. Further, idle global capacity in a range of
sectors will allow competitive imports to reduce the
momentum in domestic prices. Third, consequent on the
strengthening of domestic growth drivers, demand-side
pressures are building up.
38.     Taking into account the emerging domestic and
external scenario, the baseline projection for WPI
inflation for March 2011 has been raised to 6.0 per cent
from 5.5 per cent as indicated in the April policy
statement (Chart 2).  
 /  
 39.     The Reserve Bank will endeavour to achieve price
stability and anchor inflation expectations. In pursuit
of these objectives, the Reserve Bank will continue to
evaluate an array of aggregate and disaggregated measures
of inflation in the context of the evolving macroeconomic
situation.
40.     Notwithstanding the current inflation scenario, it is
important to recognise that in the last decade (2000-01
to 2009-10), the average inflation rate, measured both in
terms
of WPI and CPI, moderated to around 5 per cent from the
historical trend rate
of about 7.5 per cent. A combination of factors played a
role in this transformation. One of these was a monetary
policy committed to keeping inflation low and stable.
This record is an important foundation for the
credibility of monetary policy and, more generally, the
broader inflation management framework. Against this
backdrop, the conduct of monetary policy will continue to
condition and contain perception of inflation in the
range of 4.0-4.5 per cent. This will be in line with the
medium-term objective of
3.0 per cent inflation consistent with India’s broader
integration into the global economy.
Monetary Aggregates
41.     While the current year-on-year money supply (M3)
growth at 15.3 per cent
is below the indicative projection of 17.0 per cent, non-
food credit growth at 22.3 per cent was marginally higher
than the indicative projection of 20.0 per cent. It is
expected that even with the higher growth projection,
monetary aggregates will evolve along the projected
trajectory indicated in the April policy statement.
Accordingly, the M3 and non-food credit growth
projections for 2010-11 have been retained at 17 per cent
and 20 per cent respectively. As always, these numbers
are indicative projections and not targets.
Risk Factors
42.     The above macroeconomic and monetary projections are
subject to a number of upside and downside risks.
43.     The main risk emanates from the global scenario and
has two key dimensions. First, if the global recovery
falters, the risk of which has increased since the April
2010 policy announcement, the performance of EMEs is
likely to be adversely affected. While India’s trade
linkages with the advanced economies are appreciably
smaller than those of other major EMEs, a widespread
slowdown in global trade will have an impact on important
manufacturing and service sectors.
44.     The more significant risk, though, is from a
potential slowdown in capital inflows. India’s rapid
recovery has resulted in a widening of the current
account deficit, as imports have grown faster than
exports. Even if exports slow down, the strength of
domestic growth drivers will keep imports buoyant,
suggesting a widening of the trade deficit. However, in
the face of a global slowdown, increasing risk aversion
amongst global investors may significantly reduce the
flow of capital into EMEs, including India. Apart from
narrowing the comfortable buffer between the current
account deficit and net capital inflows, this may
constrain domestic investment, which is critical to
achieving and sustaining high growth rates.
45.     Admittedly, the risk of capital flows runs both ways.
Given the present state of global economy, central banks
in advanced economies are likely to maintain
accommodative monetary policies for an extended period.
With the strong growth potential of EMEs, including
India, this is likely to trigger large capital inflows.
Large capital inflows above the absorptive capacity of
the economy will pose a challenge for monetary and
exchange rate management. This also has implications for
asset prices. In this scenario, a widening current
account deficit will help absorb a larger proportion of
the inflows.
46.     On the inflation front, the prospects of softening of
domestic inflation around mid-year 2010-11 are contingent
on moderating food prices. Rainfall has been generally
adequate so far, indicating good prospects for the
agricultural sector. But, with two months yet to go for
the season, the risk of inadequate rainfall adversely
affecting specific regions and crops remains.
47.     However, with respect to controlling inflation, the
global scenario may generate some favourable impulses.
Slower global growth will help lower energy and commodity
prices. Unutilised global capacity in many sectors will
also ease pressure on prices.  
 III. The Policy Stance
48.     Since October 2009, when it signalled the reversal of
its policy stance, the Reserve Bank has cumulatively
raised the CRR by 100 basis points and the repo and
reverse repo rates under the LAF by 75 basis points each.
The monetary policy response has been calibrated on the
basis of India’s specific growth-inflation dynamics in
the broader context of persistent global uncertainty.
49.     Thus, our policy stance for 2010-11 has been
conditioned by three major considerations:
50.     First, domestic economic recovery is firmly in place
and is strengthening. The 7.4 per cent growth in 2009-10
despite weak global growth and the insignificant
contribution of the agriculture sector is a testimony of
the resilience of the Indian economy. The Reserve Bank’s
upward revision of the GDP growth projection for 2010-11
to 8.5 per cent (from 8.0 per cent with an upside bias in
April 2010) indicates that the economy is steadily
reverting to its pre-crisis growth trajectory. However,
even as this is happening, prospects of a sustained
global recovery appear to be increasingly uncertain, with
possible adverse consequences for the EMEs, including
India.
51.     Second, inflationary pressures have exacerbated and
become generalised, with demand-side pressures clearly
evident. Capacity constraints are visible in several
sectors and pricing power is returning to producers.
Inflationary expectations also remain at an elevated
level. Given the spread and persistence of inflation,
demand-side inflationary pressures need to be contained.
52.     Third, despite the increase in the policy rates by 75
basis points cumulatively, real policy rates are not
consistent with the strong growth that
the economy is now witnessing. As articulated in previous
policy statements/reviews, lower policy rates can
complicate the inflation outlook and impair inflationary
expectations, particularly given the increased
generalisation of inflation. It is, therefore, imperative
that we continue in the direction of normalising our
policy instruments to a level consistent with the
evolving growth and inflation scenario, while taking care
not to disrupt the recovery.
53.     In this consideration, the liquidity situation plays
a crucial role. It is well understood that transmission
of monetary policy through rate actions works most
effectively when liquidity is being injected into the
financial system by the central bank, rather than when it
is being absorbed. Our calibrated actions to absorb
surplus liquidity from October 2009 onwards were
reinforced by market conditions, which evolved in early
June 2010 and still persist. Consequently, overnight call
money interest rates have moved towards the upper bound
of the LAF corridor, which is equivalent to effective
tightening of rates by 150 basis points. This has also
brought the system closer to a point at which policy rate
actions are likely to have greater traction.
54.     Current market conditions indicate that while
liquidity pressures will ease, the system is likely to
remain in deficit mode for now. This implies a
significant change in the monetary operations, which has
a direct bearing on our actions. In a deficit liquidity
mode, the repo rate under the LAF has emerged as the
operating policy rate. The LAF operates in such a manner
that as systemic liquidity alternates from surplus to
deficit, even at the margin, the overnight call money
rates alternate between the reverse repo rate and the
repo rate. This imparts volatility to call rates to the
extent of the width of the LAF corridor.
55.     There is no unique way to determine the appropriate
width of the policy interest rate corridor. But the
guiding principles are: (i) it should be broad enough not
to unduly incentivise market participants to place their
surplus funds with the central bank; (ii) it should not
be so broad that it gives scope for greater interest rate
volatility to distort the policy signal. The challenge,
therefore, is to strike the right balance.
56.     As the systemic liquidity transits from an uni-
directional surplus mode to
a bi-directional mode, it will have implications for the
effectiveness of monetary transmission. In the context of
the changing liquidity dynamics, the operation of the LAF
needs to be studied. Accordingly, it is proposed to set
up a Working Group to review the current operating
procedure of monetary policy of the Reserve Bank,
including the LAF.
57.     Against the above stated backdrop, the stance of
monetary policy is intended to:
·     Contain inflation and anchor inflationary expectations,
while being prepared to respond to any further build-up
of inflationary pressures.
·     Maintain an interest rate regime consistent with price,
output and financial stability.
·     Actively manage liquidity to ensure that it remains
broadly in balance so that excess liquidity does not
dilute the effectiveness of policy rate actions.  
 Mid-Quarter Review of Monetary Policy
58.     At present, scheduled policy announcements are made
once in
a quarter. In a rapidly evolving macroeconomic situation,
however, a gap of a quarter between policy reviews can be
too long. In recent years, there have been several
occasions (April, June and September-December 2008;
January and March 2009; and March and July 2010) when the
Reserve Bank had to take off-cycle policy actions in
response to macroeconomic developments. While these
instances challenge the discipline of the quarterly
schedule, they also underscore the need for flexibility
to manoeuvre. Many major central banks in the world make
monetary policy announcements more frequently ranging
generally from 8 to 12 announcements in a year. It is,
therefore, proposed to formalise what is already an
informal, internal process.
59.     Accordingly, the Reserve Bank will now undertake mid-
quarter reviews roughly at the interval of about one and
half months after each quarterly review. As per schedule,
mid-quarter reviews will be in June, September, December
and March. They will be by way of a press release, which
will provide a rationale for either action or maintenance
of the status quo.
60.     Mid-quarter Reviews are intended to communicate our
assessment of economic conditions more frequently. By
instituting these, it is our intention to take the
surprise element out of the off-cycle actions. However,
the Reserve Bank will have the flexibility, as always, to
take swift and pre-emptive policy action, as and when
warranted by the evolving macroeconomic developments.  
 IV. Monetary Measures
61.     On the basis of the current assessment and in line with
the policy stance as outlined in Section III, the Reserve Bank
announces the following policy measures:
Bank Rate
62.     The Bank Rate has been retained at 6.0 per cent.
Repo Rate
63.     It has been decided to:
·     increase the repo rate under the Liquidity Adjustment
Facility (LAF) by 25 basis points from 5.5 per cent to 5.75
per cent with immediate effect.
Reverse Repo Rate
64.     It has been decided to:
·     increase the reverse repo rate under the LAF by 50 basis
points from 4.0 per cent to 4.50 per cent with immediate
effect.
Cash Reserve Ratio
65.     The cash reserve ratio (CRR) of scheduled banks has been
retained at 6.0 per cent of their net demand and time
liabilities (NDTL).
Expected Outcomes
66.     Monetary policy actions are expected to:
a.     Moderate inflation by reining in demand pressures and
inflationary expectations.
b.     Maintain financial conditions conducive to sustaining growth.
c.     Generate liquidity conditions consistent with more effective
transmission of policy actions.
d.     Reduce the volatility of short-term rates in a narrower
corridor.
Mid-Quarter Review of Monetary Policy 2010-11
67.     The next mid-quarter review of Monetary Policy for 2010-11
will be announced through a press release on September 16,
2010.
Second Quarter Review of Monetary Policy 2010-11
68.     The second quarter review of Monetary Policy 2010-11,
including developmental and regulatory policies, is scheduled
on November 2, 2010.
Mumbai
July 27, 2010  
 #<511354.268641.2.1.46.17993.25>#
-0- Jul/27/2010 06:15 GMT
  
          
          


  


        