-- RIM May Debut BlackBerry With Slide-Out Keyboard on Aug. 3, Analysts Say
-- Hugo Miller
-- 2010-07-27T21:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/rim-may-debut-blackberry-with-slide-out-keyboard-on-aug-3-analysts-say.html

          
          
             Research In Motion Ltd. , maker of
the BlackBerry smartphone, plans to hold an event Aug. 3 that
may be a debut of a new model with a slide-out keyboard,
analysts said.  
 The invitation for the unspecified event in New York
includes AT&T Inc.’s logo and was sent to people in the media.  
 “I would suspect this would be the new BlackBerry 9800, a
touch-screen slider phone,” said  Tavis McCourt , an analyst with
Morgan Keegan & Co. in Nashville, Tennessee, who has an
“outperform” rating on RIM stock “It was well known it was
with AT&T and they’d said they’d have two devices later in their
fiscal second quarter.”  
 RIM, best known for handsets with a full keyboard, has
struggled to create a touch-screen device that can compete with
Apple Inc.’s iPhone partly because of a Web browser that makes
Internet surfing harder. Avian Securities LLC analyst  Matt Thornton  also said he expects the event to be a debut for a
slider phone with the new BlackBerry 6 operating system.  
 It’s an important chance for RIM to prove its critics
wrong, said Thornton, who is based in Boston and rates the
Waterloo, Ontario-based company’s stock “positive.”  
 Fletcher Cook , a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, declined
to comment on the event.  Marisa Conway , a spokeswoman for RIM,
didn’t immediately return a message seeking comment.  
 Co-Chief Executive Officer  Jim Balsillie  told analysts last
month that RIM plans to introduce two devices around the end of
the quarter that runs through August and the start of the next.  
 RIM fell 4.2 percent today to $53.18 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. It has declined 21 percent this year while Apple has
gained 25 percent.  
 “There is a bear contingent out there that think RIM’s
software capabilities will never close the gap with Apple,”
Thornton said. “All eyes are on this.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        