-- Swiss Stocks Gain as UBS Results Beat Expectations; Credit Suisse Climbs
-- Francesca Angelini
-- 2010-07-27T15:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/roche-holding-swiss-life-syngenta-ubs-may-move-swiss-equity-preview.html

          
          
             Swiss stocks gained led by banking
shares as  UBS AG  posted results that beat analysts’ expectations
and the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision softened some of
its proposed capital and liquidity rules.  
 UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, surged 11 percent. The
stock was raised to “buy” from “hold” by Standard & Poor’s
equity analyst Frank Braden.  Credit Suisse Group AG  advanced 5.9
percent.  Swiss Life Holding AG  gained 5.1 percent after JPMorgan
Chase & Co. upgraded Switzerland’s biggest life insurer.  
 The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  increased 75.73, or 1.2
percent, to 6,275.19 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The SMI
has retreated 10 percent from this year’s high on April 15 amid
speculation that Europe’s debt crisis may derail the economic
recovery and concern that Chinese authorities are cooling their
nation’s rate of growth. The broader  Swiss Performance Index 
gained 1.1 percent.  
 “European banks have been among the leaders in recent
weeks and with the break of the 200-day moving average, the
sector is gaining momentum,” Michael Riesner and Marc Mueler,
technical analysts at UBS AG, wrote in a note today. The Stoxx
600 Banks Index, a gauge of European lenders, climbed above its
200-day moving average yesterday for the first time since April.  
 Basel Committee  
 The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision softened some of
its proposed capital and liquidity rules while introducing
restrictions on how much lenders can borrow.  
 The panel agreed yesterday to allow certain assets,
including minority stakes in other financial firms, to count as
capital, according to a statement. The committee set a leverage
ratio to apply to banks globally for the first time, which could
become binding by 2018, pending further adjustments to the
method of calculating banks’ assets.  
 “We think investors should applaud the proposed changes as
another step toward striking an appropriate balance between
increased capital and liquidity requirements and banks’ ability
to provide credit to the economy,” BofA Merrill Lynch Global
Research wrote in a note on European banks.  
 UBS climbed 11 percent to 17.46 Swiss francs. The bank
reported a third consecutive quarterly profit after stemming
losses at its securities unit.  
 Net income was 2.01 billion francs ($1.9 billion), after a
net loss of 1.4 billion francs a year earlier, the Zurich-based
bank said. That beat the 1.12 billion-franc median estimate of
11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 “We expect these results to be well received and see scope
for upgrades from an unambitious consensus,” Keefe, Bruyette &
Woods Ltd. said in a note. The brokerage reiterated an
“outperform” rating on the stock.  
 Credit Suisse Climbs  
 Credit Suisse, the country’s second-biggest bank, increased
5.9 percent to 47.59 francs.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. , the 120-
year-old private bank, advanced 2.6 percent to 37.45 francs.  
 Swiss Life rose 5.1 percent to 109.70 francs. JPMorgan
lifted its recommendation on the stock to “neutral” from
“underweight.” The brokerage, which cited the shares’ recent
underperformance, said in a note that “the risk reward is now
more balanced.”  
 Transocean Ltd.  gained 4.9 percent to 48.98 francs.
Malaysia will receive Transocean’s “Deepwater Expedition”
drillship in September and its “Frontier Phoenix” drillship in
November, Rosli Hamzah, head of deepwater development at
Petronas Carigali Sdn., said in a conference in Singapore.
Malaysia needs three new drillships between 2010 and 2015 as
deepwater areas will account for as much as 40 percent of its
oil output in 10 years, he said.  
 Roche Holding AG  increased 1 percent to 136.20 francs. The
world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs received clearance from
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the CoaguChek XS Pro
system, a point-of-care anti-coagulation monitor.  
 Swiss Reinsurance Co . advanced 2.5 percent to 48.86 francs.
The world’s second-largest reinsurer said it has agreed to
provide three years of hurricane cover for the Alabama State
Insurance Fund.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        