-- Rod Blagojevich Lawyer Says U.S. Proved `Nothing'
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-07-27T22:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/rod-blagojevich-s-lawyer-says-u-s-proved-nothing-in-corruption-trial.html

          
          
             Rod Blagojevich ’s lawyer scoffed at
prosecutors’ case against the former Illinois governor, who is
accused of trying to trade official acts for campaign cash,
saying several times in closing arguments, “give me a break!”  
 “I had no idea that in two months of trial, they would
prove nothing,” Sam Adam Jr. told jurors today at the federal
court in Chicago.  
 The attorney’s two-hour oratory was interrupted frequently
by prosecutors’ objections and U.S. District Judge  James Zagel ’s
admonitions. The judge said he will instruct jurors tomorrow on
the laws they are to apply in deliberations.  
 Blagojevich, 53, conspired with his brother and co-
defendant  Robert Blagojevich  and members of his inner circle to
profit from his office, an attorney for the U.S. said in closing
remarks yesterday. The brothers face as long as 20 years in
prison if found guilty of the most serious charges.  
 The twice-elected Democrat was arrested in December 2008
and later indicted for linking official acts, including the
selection of President  Barack Obama ’s Senate successor, to
campaign contributions and personal favors.  
 He was removed from office for abuse of power by the
state’s Legislature in January 2009.  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney Reid Schar today spoke in rebuttal
after Adam’s closing, telling jurors that Blagojevich and the
people around him were corrupt.  
 ‘He’s Not Stupid’  
 “He’s not stupid. He’s very smart. He didn’t get elected
governor two times by accident,” Schar said.  
 The trial started with jury selection on June 3 and
prosecutors rested their case against the siblings after
slightly more than five weeks of testimony.  
 Jurors also heard recorded conversations obtained by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation through court-approved wiretaps,
in which the governor, his brother and close advisers discussed
both pending initiatives --including the Senate seat appointment
-- and fundraising.  
 Prosecutors allege that after Illinois union leader  Tom Balanoff  approached the governor to relay Obama’s preference
that presidential adviser  Valerie Jarrett  be selected,
Blagojevich and his inner circle began discussing what he could
get for himself in exchange.  
 “That man wasn’t selling any Senate seat,” Adam told the
jury. “The president-elect sent emissaries to him.”  
 Adam told jurors what they overheard in the secretly
recorded conversations were the overtures of a political
negotiation, not a crime.  
 ‘The Tapes!’  
 “You can infer what’s on Rod’s mind from those tapes,”
the lawyer said, and “whether or not he’s trying to extort the
president of the United States.”  
 “He wasn’t trying to extort,” Adam said. “How do you
know? The tapes!”  
 The lawyer returned to his opening theme that the former
governor was surrounded by duplicitous insiders who were smarter
than he was.  
 Blagojevich has “horrible judgment” about people, Adam
said.  
 “So you get the blame everyone else argument,” Schar said
in rebuttal. Noting that Blagojevich has a law degree and is a
former state prosecutor, Schar said the ex-governor has more
knowledge of criminal law than most people.  
 “Somehow, he is the accidentally corrupt governor?” he
asked.  
 Adam was initially allotted 2 1/2 hours for his closing
statement. His commentary was interrupted several times by
prosecutors’ objections to the accuracy of his remarks and by
Zagel’s corrective comments.  
 ‘Like a Show’  
 “It’s beginning to look more like a show,” Zagel said of
Adam’s performance. Later, while the jury was out, the judge
said the lawyer “can be precise without giving up the loud
voice, the whispering and the hand-gestures.”  
 “This is not a corrupt man. He’s never been corrupt, he
isn’t corrupt and we should be victorious at the end of the
day,” Adam told reporters outside the courthouse.  
 The governor’s closing was preceded by almost two hours of
discussion between Zagel and attorneys for both sides concerning
whether Adam could tell the jury about people the government
mentioned during the trial and didn’t present as witnesses.  
 Zagel turned down the request, telling the governor’s
lawyers that if they insisted on telling the jury about absent
witnesses, he would be compelled to tell the panel that those
same witnesses could have been called by the defense.  
 “I think the defense has an upward hill to climb,”
Chicago-Kent College of Law professor Richard Kling said after
hearing today’s closing arguments.  
 “There were, I think, legitimate objections the government
was making,” he said. “Mr. Adam was arguing based on things
that weren’t in the evidence.”  
 The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-00888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew M Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Rod Blagojevich Lawyer Says U.S. Proved ‘Nothing’  
                       
                         
                           Scott Olson/Getty Images 
                         
                         Lawyers for former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich, Sam Adam Jr. and his father Sam Adam arrive to court  in Chicago. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Lawyers for former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich, Sam Adam Jr. and his father Sam Adam arrive to court  in Chicago. Photographer: Scott Olson/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
