-- Rogers Second-Quarter Profit Tops Analysts' Estimates on Wireless Growth
-- Hugo Miller
-- 2010-07-27T20:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/rogers-second-quarter-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-on-wireless-growth.html

          
          
             Rogers Communications Inc. , Canada’s
largest wireless carrier, reported second-quarter profit that
surpassed analysts’ estimates as new subscribers for smartphones
and devices such as Apple Inc.’s iPad fueled data growth.  
 Profit  excluding some items was 80 Canadian cents a share,
Toronto-based Rogers said today in a statement. Analysts in a
 Bloomberg survey  predicted 68 cents on average.  
 Rogers started selling data plans for the iPad in May to
bolster revenue after losing its Canadian monopoly on the iPhone
as  BCE Inc.  and Telus Corp. began offering the device late last
year. Rogers added fewer new subscribers last quarter than in
the same period a year earlier. That reflects increased
competition and a slowdown in iPhone purchases as customers held
off for the availability of the iPhone 4, Rogers said.  
 “Net additions will be more evenly spread among the major
players” said  Maher Yaghi , an analyst at Desjardins Securities
in Montreal who recommends buying the stock.  
 Rogers fell 57 cents, or 1.5 percent, to C$36.83 at 4:10
p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange  trading . The shares have gained
13 percent this year.  
 The company kept its full-year forecast unchanged. Rogers
resisted changing it because it’s hard to predict demand for new
products such as the iPhone 4, expected in the third quarter,
Chief Executive Officer  Nadir Mohamed  said on a conference call
with reporters.  
 Lack of Visibility  
 “Given that’s very difficult to do at this stage, we felt
it wasn’t the time to change guidance because of the lack of
visibility,” he said. “In terms of performance, we felt
strongly about the first half and we’re optimistic about our
outlook going forward.”  
 Sales  at Rogers, which also offers cable television and
publishes magazines, climbed 4.8 percent to C$3.03 billion
($2.94 billion), helped by wireless data revenue growth of 39
percent, the company said. Net income rose 21 percent to C$451
million, or 78 cents a share, from C$374 million, or 59 cents, a
year earlier.  
 Rogers added 119,000 new subscribers last quarter, fewer
than the 142,000 additions in the same period a year earlier.  
 To combat new carriers Wind Mobile, Mobilicity and Public
Mobile who are targeting cost-conscious customers, Rogers is
introducing chatr, a plan with unlimited talk and texting.  
 Chatr Plan  
 Chatr will have a “lean” cost structure, use extra
network capacity, and complement its existing Fido and Rogers
brands that are more focused on data-centric smartphones,  Rob Bruce , president of Rogers’ communications unit, said on a
conference call with analysts.  
 Helped by more smartphone adoption, the average wireless
monthly bill increased to C$63.66, surpassing the C$62.80
estimate by  Dvai Ghose , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity in
Toronto who recommends holding the stock.  
 Wireless sales last quarter grew 5.2 percent to C$1.7
billion and cable operations revenue gained 3.5 percent to C$790
million. Sales from its media unit climbed 8.2 percent to C$396
million, the best performance in two years, the company said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        