-- Rubber Drops From Two-Week High on Stronger Yen, Increasing Thai Supplies
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-07-27T08:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/rubber-drops-from-two-week-high-on-stronger-yen-increasing-thai-supplies.html

          
          
             Rubber dropped, retreating from the
highest price in two weeks, on a strengthening Japanese currency
and the prospect of increased output from Thailand, the largest
exporter of the commodity used to make tires and gloves.  
 Futures fell as much as 1.4 percent, the first decline in
three days. The yen rose on speculation that exporters will buy
the currency before Japan’s Obon, when Japanese take time off
during the second week of August.  
 “The yen retains a strengthening tone and that has soured
market sentiment, dragging rubber lower,” Varut Rungkhum, an
analyst at commodity broker Agro Wealth Ltd., said from Bangkok.  
 December-delivery rubber fell to 262.2 yen per kilogram
($3,016 a metric ton) on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange, before
settling at 263.5 yen. The contract touched 267.9 yen yesterday,
the highest level since July 12.  
 “Exporters may purchase the yen ahead of the summer
holidays,” said  Yuji Saito , director of the foreign-exchange
department at Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank in
Tokyo. The currency rose to 86.83 per dollar from 86.88
yesterday, making the yen-denominated rubber contract less
attractive for holders of other currencies.  
 “Rainfall in southern Thailand paved way for farmers to
start tapping, increasing supply,” said Navarat Kaewpratarn, a
senior marketing official at Future Agri Trade Co. “This also
put pressure on the market.”  
 Japan won’t extend a subsidy program for buyers of fuel-
efficient models, Nikkei Telecom 21 reported on July 23, citing
 Masayuki Naoshima , minister for economy, trade and industry. The
program is scheduled to be terminated at the end of September.  
 “Some investors remain concerned car sales in Japan may
decline once the government ends a subsidy program for eco-
friendly cars,” said Agro Wealth’s Varut.  
 November-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
declined 0.6 percent to settle at 22,175 yuan ($3,272) a ton.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        