-- Russia to Raise Economic Forecasts After Growth Accelerated, Klepach Says
-- Maria Levitov
-- 2010-07-27T12:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/russia-to-raise-economic-forecasts-after-growth-accelerated-klepach-says.html

          
          
             Russia’s government will raise this
year’s economic forecast after output growth accelerated last
quarter as household demand caught up with a recovery in
commodity exports, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said.  
 Gross domestic product expanded an annual 5.4 percent in
the three months through June, Klepach told reporters in Moscow
today. That compares with 2.9 percent growth in the first
quarter, the Federal Service of State Statistics said on July 1.  
 The recovery last quarter was mainly fueled by a return of
domestic spending after global demand for metals weakened and
the pace of export growth ebbed, Klepach said. The economy grew
1.1 percent from the first quarter, adjusting for seasonal
swings, he said. The government will probably raise its current
forecast for growth this year of 4 percent, he said.  
 “Economic growth continues but it hasn’t become investment
oriented to the necessary extent,” Klepach said. “The sub-
components of growth remain fairly fragile with the exception of
consumer demand.”  
 The risk of low investment and a surge in imports may yet
impede the recovery, Klepach told reporters.     A more competitive
Russian industrial sector and a weaker ruble could slow import
growth, he said.  
 The ruble has appreciated 3.4 percent against the dollar
since the end of June, according to Bloomberg data. The Russian
currency was trading 0.5 percent higher today against the dollar
at 30.1851 as of 4:22 p.m. in Moscow.  
 Imports grew 33.2 percent last quarter, compared with 40.8
percent growth in exports, Klepach said today. The country’s
worst drought in a decade will reduce this year’s harvest to
less than 80 million tons, he said, about 17 percent less than
last year. That’s “no basis for panic,” he said, adding the
grain shortage won’t affect inflation this month.  
 It’s too early to assess the impact of the drought, Klepach
told reporters.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        