-- San Miguel May Raise $1.6 Billion Selling Shares to Finance Acquisitions
-- Karl Lester M. Yap
-- 2010-07-27T09:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/san-miguel-may-raise-1-6-billion-selling-shares-to-finance-acquisitions.html

          
          
             San Miguel Corp. , the Philippines’
biggest food and drinks maker, may raise about 75 billion pesos
($1.6 billion) selling shares to finance purchases as it expands
outside its traditional  businesses .  
 San Miguel said in a statement it will sell 1 billion
shares for at least 75 pesos each, more than 9 percent higher
than today’s closing prices. That would be the country’s biggest
stock sale since at least 1992, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 The transaction will help replenish the  acquisition  funds
of President  Ramon Ang , who said in March he planned to sell $1
billion of assets to accelerate a $2 billion  expansion  into
industries including railways, energy, telecommunications and
mining. The company that controls the brewer of San Miguel Beer
is  investing  in businesses that have a  return  on equity triple
that of its food and beverage businesses, according to Ang.  
 “Investors will take it in a positive note as 75 pesos is
still a cheap entry price given the potential their power assets
have shown,”  Erwin Balita , an analyst at Manila-based SB
Equities Inc., said in a phone interview. He has a “buy”
rating and an 82 peso target price on  San Miguel’s A shares .  
 San Miguel’s A shares , which are reserved for Filipinos,
rose 0.7 percent to close at 68 pesos in Manila trading and have
 declined  0.7 percent this year. The company’s  B shares , which
don’t have ownership restrictions, were unchanged at 68.50 pesos.  
 The board approved the plan and has authorized management
to set the price and other terms of the sale, the Manila-based
company said in a statement today.  
 Pure Foods  
 “The proceeds will be used to finance investments and
acquisitions,”  San Miguel  Chief Financial Officer  Ferdinand Constantino  said.  
 The company still plans to sell a stake in  San Miguel Pure
Foods Inc. , the nation’s largest maker of hotdogs and poultry
raiser, Ang said in a mobile-phone text message today.  
 San Miguel  said last week that the prospective buyers for a
stake in the business are down to two. The company had earlier
this year valued the unit at $1.8 billion and Ang said that a
decision on the sale will be taken this week.  
 The planned share sale is part of an agreement between  San
Miguel  and  shareholder  Top Frontier Investment Holdings Inc. to
broaden the company’s ownership, Ang said earlier this year. Top
Frontier, controlled by the  foodmaker  itself and two of its
directors, said in March that it owns or has voting rights to
86.05 percent of San Miguel.  
 ‘Secure’ Future  
 San Miguel , which began as a brewer in 1890, has raised
about $3 billion from asset sales since 2008. Its acquisitions
are part of a process that Chairman  Eduardo Cojuangco  has said
will “secure” the company’s future.  
 San Miguel’s energy-related acquisitions include a 27
percent stake in Manila Electric Co., the nation’s biggest power
distributor, and an option to buy control of Petron Corp., the
largest oil refiner in the country. San Miguel has also acquired
power plants and power supply contracts that make it the largest
electricity producer in the nation’s main island of Luzon with
28 percent of generating capacity.  
 The foodmaker had 121.07 billion pesos in  cash  and near-
cash assets as of March 31, compared with 209.4 billion pesos
three months before then.  
 Shareholders in May approved San Miguel’s plan to sell
control in its main food and drinks businesses to raise funds
and allow it to focus on its new ventures, which include power
plants.  
 The planned sale will increase  San Miguel ’s outstanding
shares to 3.30 billion from 2.30 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It may also expand San Miguel’s free
float, which was reduced in part by the company’s move last year
to swap common shares into preferred stock.  
 “Increasing the free float will attract institutional
investors to get back to San Miguel,” SB Equities’ Balita said.
San Miguel’s free float is made up of 708.1 million Class A
shares and 99.75 million B shares, according to Bloomberg data.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
 Karl Lester M. Yap  in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        