-- Sanofi Investors Win Revival of Zumulti Lawsuit Over Regulator Rejection
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-27T23:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/sanofi-investors-win-revival-of-zumulti-lawsuit-over-regulator-rejection.html

          
          
             A U.S. judge reinstated a lawsuit
accusing  Sanofi-Aventis SA  of misleading investors about the
likelihood of U.S. regulatory approval of its weight-loss pill
Zimulti.  
 U.S. District Judge  George Daniels  in Manhattan said today
that shareholders can amend their complaint and refile it.
Daniels had dismissed the lawsuit Sept. 25 saying Sanofi wasn’t
reckless when it interpreted the drug’s side effects to be
either statistically insignificant or not severe enough to block
approval. A Food and Drug Administration panel in June 2007
rejected the pill, which was linked to suicides, sending company
shares to their biggest drop in three years.  
 Sanofi, based in Paris, was accused in the November 2007
suit of violating U.S. securities laws by failing to disclose
data about Zimulti’s link to suicidal behavior. The lead
plaintiff in the proposed class-action suit was the city of
Edinburgh Council on behalf of the Lothian Pension Fund and New
England Carpenters Guaranteed Annuity Fund.  
 Lawyers for the investors submitted a proposal that “cures
the fatal deficiencies” in their original complaint and
“adequately pleads violations of the federal securities laws,”
Daniels said today in his one-page order.  
 FDA Advisers  
 France’s largest drugmaker, which once expected the
medicine to generate about $3 billion in annual revenue, pulled
its application for U.S. approval after a committee of FDA
advisers found that Sanofi’s safety data were insufficient and
that the weight lost in clinical trials didn’t justify the
danger of psychiatric or neurological side effects.  
 The investors claimed Sanofi knowingly downplayed in public
statements data showing the regulator was concerned about the
drug’s safety. U.S. regulators reviewing the company’s
application found that people who took the drug were twice as
likely to have thoughts of suicide as those who took a placebo.
Three patients taking the drug killed themselves during clinical
trials.  
 Plaintiffs attorney  Samuel Rudman , of the firm  Coughlin
Stoia Geller Rudman & Robbins LLP  in Melville, New York, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment.  
 Jean-Marc Podvin , a spokesman for Sanofi in France, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail message seeking comment after
regular business hours. There was no answer at his telephone
number.  
 The case is In re Sanofi-Aventis Securities Litigation,
1:07-cv-10279, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in Manhattan Federal Courthouse at
   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        