-- SAP Profit Rises 15%, Missing Analysts' Estimates
-- Ragnhild Kjetland
-- 2010-07-27T12:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/sap-second-quarter-profit-climbs-15-on-software-sales-misses-estimates.html

          
          
             SAP AG , the world’s biggest maker of
business-management software, said second-quarter profit rose 15
percent as companies boosted spending on technology. The
increase fell short of analysts’ estimates.  
 Net  income climbed to 491 million euros ($638.2 million),
or 41 cents a share, from 426 million euros, or 36 cents, a
year-earlier -- less than  analysts ’ estimate of 525 million
euros. Profit at the Walldorf, Germany-based company was hurt by
a currency loss and severance paid to two former executives.  
 “The key business is improving,” said  Frank Niemann , a
director at Pierre Audoin Consultants GmbH in Munich. “They,
like many others, are very careful about the outlook. Depending
on what happens in Greece and so on, they don’t know if people
will be able to get financing to invest in software.”  
 SAP, whose software manages  Apple Inc.’s  iTunes download
system and is used by companies for payroll and customer
relations management, is expanding to applications accessed via
the Internet and mobile devices. It will release Internet-based
Business ByDesign software on July 31, after more than two years
of delays. SAP also recently bought  Sybase Inc.,  a maker of
database and mobile-computing software, for $5.8 billion.  
 “We’ve been building the pipeline” for ByDesign since
May, Co-Chief Executive Officer  Jim Hagemann Snabe  said on a
conference call today. “Thousands of customers are looking at
ByDesign. The real challenge is to teach businesses that they
can run their whole business on-demand.”  
 SAP fell as much as 2.9 percent in Frankfurt  trading  and
was down 1.9 percent at 36.60 euros as of 1:23 p.m. Before
today, the  stock  had gained 13 percent this year.  
 Smaller Businesses  
 SAP’s biggest rival,  Oracle Corp ., said sales from new
software licenses rose 14 percent to $3.14 billion in the fourth
quarter ended May 31. Both companies are benefiting from
businesses resuming spending put on hold during the economic
slump.  
 SAP Co-CEO  Bill McDermott  said the Americas showed strong
growth and that he is optimistic on growth in the Asia-Pacific
region and Japan and a little more “cautious” on Europe.  
 “Some of it has to do with year-over-year comparison and
timing of large deals,” McDermott said. In Europe, “we’ll come
into good times in the second half.”  
 SAP expects “bigger customers to buy a smaller part of the
software,” said Pierre Audoin’s Niemann, suggesting it will go
after lower-value, higher volume software sales. Medium-sized
companies are still facing difficulties, he said.  
 SAP’s latest results included 11 million euros in severance
paid to former CEO  Leo Apotheker  and former management board
member  John Schwarz . It also reflected an 86 million-euro hit,
largely from currency losses.  
 ‘Disappointing’  
 SAP said today it expects the inclusion of Sybase to result
in a 9 percent to 11 percent increase in non-IFRS software and
software-related service revenue at constant currencies in 2010,
from 8.2 billion euros last year.  
 Excluding Sybase, it will increase between 6 percent and 8
percent, or at the upper end of the company’s previous guidance.  
 SAP still predicts its non-IFRS operating  margin  for 2010
would be 30 percent to 31 percent at constant currencies
compared with 27.4 percent recorded in 2009.  
 “The outlook may be a little disappointing to some,” said
 Stephan Wittwer , an analyst with Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg
in Stuttgart.  
 In the second quarter, Sybase’s revenue climbed 9 percent
from a year earlier to $302 million, while operating income was
$74.3 million.  
 ‘Major Contracts’  
 SAP’s software and related services sales rose 16 percent
from a year earlier to 2.26 billion euros, while software
license sales, seen as a gauge of future maintenance and upgrade
fees, advanced 17 percent to 637 million euros.  
 Analysts polled by  Vara Research  had estimated software and
related services sales of 2.1 billion euros and software sales
of 596 million euros.  
 SAP, whose customers include  Walt Disney Co. ,  Coca-Cola Co. 
and  Body Shop International Plc , said it closed “major
contracts” in the quarter, including with  Swiss Reinsurance
Company Ltd. ,  Delta Air Lines Inc.  and the United Nations.  
 Co-CEO Snabe said SAP’s strategy remains to grow through
innovation. “Don’t expect us to do a lot of Sybase-like”
acquisitions, McDermott said.  
 Competitor Oracle has bought at least 67 companies since
January 2005.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ragnhild Kjetland  in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     SAP AG co-chief executive officer Bill McDermott. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
