-- Saudi Arabia May Be Proper Forum for al-Sanea Lawsuit, Cayman Court Says
-- Camilla Hall
-- 2010-07-27T20:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/saudi-arabia-may-be-proper-forum-for-al-sanea-lawsuit-cayman-court-says.html

          
          
             Saudi Arabia may be a more
appropriate location for claims in a lawsuit filed in the Cayman
Islands against Saudi billionaire  Maan al-Sanea  by members of
the kingdom’s Algosaibi family, according to a court decision.  
 “Saudi Arabia may be an available forum and if so, would
be the more appropriate forum for the trial of the underlying
allegations,” Chief Justice of the Cayman Islands Grand Court
Anthony Smellie said in a copy of a June 25 decision obtained by
Bloomberg News.  
 In the lawsuit, the Algosaibi group alleged Al-Sanea
misappropriated $9.2 billion from the group’s units in part to
fund his Saad Group of Companies. Al-Sanea has denied any
wrongdoing, saying Algosaibi was aware of the borrowing. Smellie
stayed the litigation until a committee appointed by the Saudi
government rules on related petitions made there by the
Algosaibi family. Smellie’s decision couldn’t be immediately
confirmed in Cayman Islands electronic records or by a clerk
contacted at the courthouse.  
 Units of the two Saudi family groups have borrowed at least
$15.7 billion from more than 80 regional and international
banks, including Paris-based  BNP Paribas SA , New York-based
 Citigroup Inc.  and  Arab Bank Plc  in Amman, Jordan, according to
documents provided by lenders.  
 Defaults by units of Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Brothers Co.
and Saad Group led to a tightening of loans inside Saudi Arabia
based on name-lending, or the extension of credit based
primarily on reputation.  
 ‘Unauthorized’ Borrowings  
 Algosaibi faces claims for “unauthorized” borrowings from
118 banks, according to the Cayman Islands ruling. Five cases
are to be brought in the London Commercial Court in June 2011,
according to the court filing.  
 Algosaibi said yesterday in an e-mailed statement that it
was “considering the scope” of Smellie’s decision, which
directed it to explore whether some of the issues in the case
could be tried in Saudi Arabia.  
 Saad Group applauded the decision, saying in an e-mailed
statement that “Saudi Arabia is the correct forum for the
principal issues in this dispute to be resolved.”  
 A freeze on al-Sanea’s assets previously ordered by the
Cayman Islands court remains in effect, Smellie wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at   chall24@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        