-- Serbia Sees Investment, EU Aid Flows Continuing After UN Setback on Kosovo
-- Gordana Filipovic
-- 2010-07-27T09:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/serbia-sees-investment-eu-aid-flows-continuing-after-un-setback-on-kosovo.html

          
          
             Serbia expects foreign investment
and European Union aid flows to continue after the government
opposed a ruling by the International Court of Justice that
Kosovo’s declaration of independence in 2008 was legal.  
 The government expects about $2 billion in foreign direct
investment this year after inflows of about $590 million in the
first four months, Aleksandar Miloradovic, a spokesman for the
 Serbian Investment and Export Promotion Agency , said in a phone
interview today.  
 “We don’t see that this in any way affects investor
sentiment,” Miloradovic said. “The pace of foreign direct
investment is roughly the same as last year.”  
 The country’s EU entry may be determined by further
negotiations about Kosovo, Deputy Prime Minister  Bozidar Djelic 
told the newspaper Blic yesterday. Parliament backed the
government’s decision to not accept the region’s independence,
calling for talks and a solution leading to “historical
reconciliation between Serbian and Albanian people.”  
 Foreign investment and borrowing helped Serbia’s economy
grow at an average 5.4 percent a year until 2008. As capital
flows dried up, the dinar lost 11 percent against the euro this
year, the second-worst performance among the more than 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, behind the Venezuelan bolivar.  
 The dinar traded at 105.67 per euro at 11:12 a.m. in
Belgrade from 105.77 yesterday.  
 Balancing Act  
 The ruling coalition of pro-Western parties and the
Socialists of former President  Slobodan Milosevic , in the third
year of its term, is trying balance efforts to join the EU and
keep Kosovo, traditionally seen by many Serbs as the cradle of
the nation, in its fold.  
 The EU has granted 1.4 billion euros ($1.8 billion) for
various projects in Serbia through 2013. That excludes 200
million euros in budget aid. Serbia is also entitled to a share
in a 1.1 billion euros worth of aid for regional projects.  
 Some EU countries have criticized Serbia for not doing
enough to find Bosnian Serb war time commander  Ratko Mladic ,
indicted by the Hague-based UN War Crimes Tribunal for the
Srebrenica massacre. Arresting and handing him over remains
Serbia’s key obstacle to faster EU integration. Mladic’s family
wants him declared dead.  
 “Even when the situation was very tense because of Mladic,
pre-accession aid was arriving,” Ongjen Miric, an adviser to the
foreign minister, said in a phone interview.  
 Serbia is “not banging the drums of war” and has to pursue
a “sober policy,” President  Boris Tadic  told parliament
yesterday. Fifty-five countries are “a step away” from
recognizing Kosovo, which the government wants to keep to a
minimum, Foreign Minister  Vuk Jeremic  told deputies.  
 A total of 69 states have recognized Kosovo’s independence,
including the United States and the majority of EU members,
unlike China and Russia.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        