-- Servier, Apple, Toho, IiNet, Gibbs Smith, Disney: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-27T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/servier-apple-toho-iinet-gibbs-smith-disney-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Les Laboratoires Servier, France’s
second-largest drugmaker, was charged with misleading a European
Union agency probing potential antitrust violations by companies
seeking to keep cheaper generic medicines from entering the EU
market.  
 Servier could face a fine of as much as 1 percent of annual
revenue if the European Commission, antitrust agency for the 27
EU nations, concludes the French company “intentionally or
negligently” submitted incorrect data.  
 “The commission’s provisional view is that it has evidence
that Servier has provided misleading and incorrect
information,” the regulator said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  
 The commission, based in Brussels, started a probe of the
pharmaceutical industry in January 2008. In a report last year,
it found that companies use a variety of techniques to delay the
introduction of generics “for as long as possible.”  
 Servier “will fully cooperate” with the commission, the
Neuilly-sur-Seine, France-based company said in an e-mailed
statement, confirming it got the charge sheet today.  
 “Getting such a communication doesn’t prejudge the final
outcome,” the company said in the statement.  
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. , the world’s biggest
generic-drug maker, Denmark’s H. Lundbeck A/S and other
pharmaceutical companies were raided last December as part of
the ongoing probe. The December raids were the third in a series
by the commission, which had previously raided Servier’s offices
in November 2008.  
 AstraZeneca Plc  earlier this month lost a court challenge
to an EU decision finding it had misled patent officials and
abused its dominant position by hindering the marketing of
generic versions of its Prilosec heartburn medicine.  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 ‘Jailbreaking’ of IPhones to Add Apps Backed by U.S.  
 Owners of  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone can unlock the device in
order to use applications not authorized by the company, the
U.S. Library of Congress said.  
 Librarian of Congress James H. Billington added the
practice, described in the ruling as “jailbreaking,” to a list
of actions that don’t violate copyright protections. The
decision affecting iPhones and other smartphones was posted
yesterday on the agency’s website as part of a periodic review.  
 The decision was a victory for the Electronic Frontier
Foundation, a privacy-rights advocacy group that asked the
Library of Congress to exempt programs for smartphones.  
 “We are thrilled to have helped free jailbreakers” from
the “overbroad reach” of U.S. copyright law, said Jennifer
Granick, civil liberties director of the San Francisco-based
group, in a statement posted on the group’s website.  
 The advocacy group’s “arguments really amount to an attack
on Apple’s particular business choices” for the iPhone and the
company’s iPhone App Store, Apple said in a filing with the
Library of Congress during consideration of the issue.  
 Exempting jailbreaking would “destroy the technological
protection of Apple’s key copyrighted computer programs in the
iPhone device itself and of copyrighted content owned by Apple
that plays on the iPhone,” Apple said.  
 Apple spokesman Steve Dowling didn’t immediately return a
phone call yesterday seeking comment.  
 Users of iPhones still may risk voiding their warranties if
they make changes to the device in order to get applications not
approved by Apple, said Brian Marshall, a technology analyst
with Gleacher & Co. in San Francisco.  
 “This happens quite frequently with people who want to
change the format on the phone and have more flexibility, but
when you do that you void the warranty,” Marshall said today in
a phone interview.  
 Toho Claims ‘Tuffzilla’ Dog Chew Toy Infringes ‘Godzilla’ Marks  
 Toho Co. Ltd. , the Japanese film company that holds the
copyright and trademarks for the “Godzilla” character, sued an
Arizona toy company for infringement.  
 VIP Products LLC of Phoenix is accused of making and
selling a “Tuffzilla” toy Toho claims infringes on its
Godzilla marks.  
 The VIP toy “is not intended to depict any historical
dinosaur,” has the same appearance as Godzilla and the
“zilla” suffice used in its name is an attempt to “exploit
and capitalize on Godzilla” for commercial benefit, according
to the complaint filed July 23 in federal court in Los Angeles.  
 VIP sued Toho July 20 in federal court in Phoenix, asking
the court to declare that “Tuffzilla” squeaky dog toy doesn’t
infringe any of Toho’s IP rights, and asked the court for a
declaration to that effect.  
 In its complaint, Toho called VIP a “serial infringer”
whose business “included taking the intellectual property of
others and trading on the popularity and goodwill of that
intellectual property for commercial gain.”  
 The Phoenix-based company was sued for trademark
infringement in 2008 by the company now known  as Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV . That case was dismissed in January 2009.  
 VIP is represented in its dispute with Toho by  David G.
Bray  of  Mariscal, Weeks, McIntyre & Friedlander PA  of Phoenix.  
 The case against Toho is VIP Products LLC v. Toho Co., 2:1-
cv-01533-JAT, U.S. District Court, District of Arizona
(Phoenix).  
 Toho is represented by  Aaron J. Moss  and  Charles N.
Shephard  of  Greenberg Glusker Fields Claman & Machtinger LLP  of
Los Angeles.  
 The case against VIP is Toho Co. v. VIP Products LLC, 2:10-
cv-05452-SVW-PLA.  
 Aussie Entertainers’ Union Seeks to Enter Infringement Suit  
 Australia’s Media Entertainment and Arts Alliance, the
country’s entertainment-industry union, asked a court for
permission to file a friend-of-the-court brief in the appeal of
a copyright case against an Internet service provider, The
Australian  reported .  
 The case was brought against  iiNet Ltd. , a Perth-based
Internet company, by the Australian Federation Against Copyright
Theft, a coalition of 30 content owners, the newspaper reported.  
 In February a court ruled that iiNet wasn’t liable because
it hadn’t authorized its customers to make unauthorized use of
others’ content, according to the newspaper.  
 In asking permission to intervene, the union said Internet
service providers profited from their customer’s illegal
activities, The Australian reported.  
 Interior Designer Sues Utah Publisher Over Pattern Copyright  
 A North Carolina designer of patterns for curtains and
other window treatments sued a Utah publisher for copyright
infringement.  
 Marylan Borchard of Matthews, North Carolina, sued  Gibbs
Smith,  of Layton, Utah, and  Jacquelyn Von Tobel  in federal court
in Charlotte, North Carolina for reproducing her patterns
without authorization.  
 According to the complaint filed July 23, Gibbs Smith
published “ The Design Directory of Window Treatments ,” a book
by Von Tobel in 2007. The 600-page book, sold by retailers such
as Amazon.com Inc., and Barnes & Noble Inc., is billed as “the
complete reference for homeowners, interior designers,
decorators and workrooms,” and contains more than 1.500 images.
It’s accompanied by a CD-Rom with line drawings for every color
illustration in the book.  
 The introduction to the CD encourages readers to “print
and customize according to your needs” the drawings, according
to court papers. Borchard, who does business as  M’Fay Patterns ,
claims that many of the illustrations in the book and CD “are
specifically identified as being derivatives of M’Fay
patterns.”  
 The North Carolina designer said she never authorized Von
Tobel or the publisher to create or distribute any derivative
works based on her patterns.  
 Borchard included in her court filing an e-mail she
received from Von Tobel in April 2008 which acknowledged,
allegedly, that she included the M’Fay images in the book even
as she lacked permission to use them.  
 “I had to make a decision on whether to go ahead and
include your company or omit it. I felt it would be a disservice
to you and to the readers of the book not to include one of the
most prominent sources in the industry,” Von Tobel said in her
e-mail. “I made the decision to go ahead and include M’Fay,”
Von Tobel said, according to court papers.  
 Borchardt asked the court to order seizure and destruction
of all copies of the allegedly infringing work, and for an order
barring all future infringement of her copyrights and trademark.
She also asked for awards of money damages, litigation costs,
and attorney fees.  
 She requested that the damages be increased “due to the
willful conduct” of the defendants.  
 Borchardt is represented by  Matthew J. Ladenheim  of  Trego,
Hines & Ladenheim PLLC  of Charlotte, North Carolina.  
 The case is Borchardt v. Von Tobel, 3:10-cv-00338, U.S.
District Court, Western District of North Carolina (Charlotte).  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Disney Says Start-Up Companies Are Fakes, Infringe Trademarks  
 Walt Disney Co. , the 87-year-old entertainment company,
sued five Los Angeles residents and a Beverly Hills, California-
based company for trademark infringement.  
 The complaint, filed July 21 in federal court in Los
Angeles, alleges that Angelo Scrigna, Sundown Scrigna,
Ginocarlos Scrigna, Johann Scrigna, Phillip LoVoie and their
American Brokers Inc., are forming companies that infringe
Disney’s marks.  
 Disney claims the companies, with names such as Walt Disney
Parks and Resorts LLC, Disney Enterprises Inc., and the Walt
Disney Company, have been started in Arkansas, Illinois,
Florida, Hawaii, Oregon and Washington “in a blatant scheme to
trade on these marks.”  
 Already the public is sufficiently confused by these
companies with similar names, Disney says, so much so that court
documents intended for Disney have been served on some of the
other companies. The use of the Disney name isn’t authorized,
the company said, and deceived the public.  
 Angelo Scrigna delivered a letter to Disney July 7,
demanding the company quit using the name “The Walt Disney Co.
in Florida,” Disney said in its complaint.  
 On July 13, Scrigna sent Disney a cease-and-desist letter,
demanding the company quit doing business in Los Angeles County
under the Disney name, according to court papers. Disney’s
Burbank, California, headquarters are in Los Angeles County.  
 American Brokers Inc. didn’t respond immediately to an e-
mailed request for comment. According to the company  website ,
American Brokers focuses “on the old world fundamentals that
made fields grow for millenniums.”  
 Disney asked the court to bar the defendants from any
unauthorized use of the Disney marks and company names, and to
order the dissolution of all the defendants’ companies that use
Disney names. It also seeks immediate delivery of any materials
that were misdirected to the defendants’ companies, and awards
of defendants’ profits derived from the alleged infringement,
money damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  
 The company is represented by  Susan Laura Klein ,  David S.
Shukan  and  Jeffrey B. Valle  of los Angeles-based  Valle Makoff
LLP .  
 The case is Walt Disney Co. v. Angelo Scrigna, 2:10-cv-
05369-JFW-CW, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  
 Colgate Sued Over Imports of Mexican ‘Wildroot’ Products  
 Colgate-Palmolive Co. , the New York-based maker of consumer
products such as Irish Spring soap, Ajax cleanser and Skin
Bracer after-shave lotion, was sued for trademark infringement
by a Florida company.  
 Stephan Co.  of Fort Lauderdale bought Wildroot and several
other trademarks from Colgate in 1995. The company uses the
Wildroot mark for some of its personal-grooming products.
Wildroot is a men’s hair tonic that was  widely advertised  in the
early days of television in the 1950s.  
 When Colgate sold the marks to closely held Stephan Co., it
retained the right to the Wildroot mark in Mexico and
“expressly or implicitly agreed” it had no rights to sell
products bearing the mark in the U.S., Stephan said in court
papers.  
 Stephan initially filed suit in Florida state court on July
9, accusing Colgate of permitting U.S.-based distributors to buy
and import Wildroot products intended for the Mexican market
into the U.S. The case was transferred to federal court in Fort
Lauderdale on July 23.  
 The Florida company says that based on the distribution
volumes in Mexico, Colgate knew or should know that the
infringing Wildroot products are being illegally diverted to the
U.S. The Mexican Wildroot product is “materially different from
Stephan’s product, and the public -- including distributors and
retail outlets -- is likely to be confused by the import,”
Stephan said in its pleadings.  
 It asked the court to bar Colgate from activities that
infringe the Wildroot mark, and to order the New York company to
deliver all infringing merchandise and promotional material to
Stephan for destruction.  
 Additionally, it’s seeking an award of Colgate’s profits
related to the alleged infringement, money damages, extra
damages to punish Colgate for its conduct, and attorney fees and
litigation costs.  
 Stephan is represented by  Richard E. Berman  and  Brian J.
McCarthy  of  Berman Kean & Riguera PA  of Fort Lauderdale. Colgate
is represented by  Jonathan Galler ,  Matthew Henry Trig gs, and
 Brendan O’Rourke  of New York’s  Proskauer Rose LLP .  
 The case is Stephan Co. v. Colgate-Palmolive Co., 0:10-cv-
61288-MGC, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Fort Lauderdale).  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        