-- Shanghai Attracts Guangdong Development as China Ends Yuan Peg
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-28T07:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/shanghai-lures-guangdong-development-nanjing-bank-as-china-ends-yuan-peg.html

          
          
             Guangdong Development Bank Co.  said
it moved currency and bond traders to Shanghai from its
headquarters in Guangzhou as an end to the yuan’s peg against
the dollar enhances the city’s role as a financial center.  
 The lender, part-owned by Citigroup Inc., will at least
double the headcount of its markets team by the end of next year
from 24 now, said  Tang Huang , general manager at the financial
markets department.  Bank of Nanjing Co.  is also expanding in the
city, according to  Fang Xinghai , director general of Shanghai’s
financial services office.  
 “Shanghai is the foreign-exchange and bond-trading center
of the whole nation,” said Tang in a July 26 interview in
Shanghai. “Our clients’ demand for products to control
exchange-rate risks will rise substantially as the authorities
permit more flexibility in the yuan.”  
 Calls today to the press office of Bank of Nanjing weren’t
answered. The Nanjing-based bank is partly owned by BNP Paribas
SA.  
 China’s central bank ended the yuan’s two-year dollar peg
on June 19 after holding the currency stable during the global
financial crisis to aid exporters. Shanghai, which aims to
become an international finance center by 2020, is home to
China’s currency and bond trading platform, the  China Foreign
Exchange Trade System , also known as CFETS.  
 Unpegging Yuan  
 Standard Chartered Plc  of London said in April it may
expand its Shanghai-based global markets team in China by 40
percent by 2012, as the nation opens its financial markets to
attract foreign investors. Shanghai-based  Bank of Communications
Ltd. , the nation’s fifth-largest lender, also said it plans to
enlarge currency and fixed-income teams in the city.  
 “A lot of other banks have this plan,” Shanghai city’s
Fang said in an interview in Hong Kong on July 8. “Unpegging
the yuan will increase trading volume. It will also add new
products to the market.”  
 The yuan’s 12-month non-deliverable forwards weakened 0.1
percent to 6.6894 per dollar as of 2:50 p.m. in Hong Kong,
reflecting bets the currency will strengthen 1.3 percent from
the spot rate of 6.7797, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency has climbed 0.7 percent since the
central bank’s shift from a fixed exchange rate on June 19.  
 Offshore Trading  
 Yuan spot trading started in Hong Kong’s interbank market
on July 21, two days after the People’s Bank of China and the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority signed an agreement to lift limits
on companies buying or selling yuan in the city, according to
 Gerrard Katz , head of foreign-exchange trading at Standard
Chartered. Volumes are “very tiny” because of position limits
introduced to prevent speculation, he said.  
 “China’s onshore foreign-exchange market will play a key
role in the price setting of the yuan because the offshore
market can’t compare with the onshore in either depth or
volume,” said Guangdong Development Bank’s Tang.  
 -- Judy Chen , Saiyu Zhou. Editors:  Sandy Hendry   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7047 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        