-- Sheriffs Roam Ireland Seizing Cars From Debtors After Collapse
-- Louisa Fahy
-- 2010-07-27T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/sheriffs-roam-ireland-seizing-sports-cars-from-debtors-after-economic-bust.html

          
          
             Sheriffs in Ireland, who collect
debts rather than police small towns, are chasing luxury cars,
motorbikes and art as creditors try to recoup money they lent
before the economy collapsed.  
 “We’re getting orders worth millions,” said John
Fitzpatrick, a sheriff in Dublin who has confiscated Jaguars,
Range Rovers and Mercedes from indebted businessmen. “Those
people are owned body and soul by the banks.”  
 Statistics show Ireland is beginning to recover from its
worst recession in 89 years as an independent country. At the
same time, court documents suggest the mountain of debt
accumulated in what was the euro region’s most dynamic economy
five years ago will take longer to overcome.  
 Fitzpatrick, 66, is one of 16 sheriffs appointed by the
 Justice Ministry  to pursue unpaid taxes. In the High Court in
Dublin, debt recovery claims rose 48 percent to 5,653 cases in
2009, according to the  Courts Service .  
 Ricky Wilson at  Wilsons Auctions  in the west of the Irish
capital said the amount of assets he has sold for sheriffs has
increased by as much as 15 percent this year. Wilson, who will
invite bids for a confiscated Ducati motorbike on July 31,
expects business to remain brisk for the rest of the year.  
 Raising Money  
 Sheriffs execute court judgments against borrowers who
don’t pay debts. They are self-employed and get some expenses
paid by the state. Once property is seized, they are responsible
for selling it to help pay creditors.  
 “When money was really tight, they literally used to take
blankets off beds,” said  Jim Stafford , whose corporate recovery
agency in Dublin advises companies on how to deal with sheriffs.
“They don’t do that anymore. They’re looking for high value.”  
 At his showroom this month, Wilson said the Ducati 996
motorbike was originally worth as much as 20,000 euros ($26,000)
and was seized by a sheriff working for the tax agency.  
 “It’s the equivalent to a Ferrari car,” said Wilson, 32,
whose grandfather founded the family-owned business in 1936.
“It tells a tale.”  
 Last month, a sheriff seized artwork belonging to property
developer  Bernard McNamara  at his home in Dublin’s affluent
Ballsbridge district, newspapers including the  Irish Times 
reported. McNamara said in a Jan. 13 interview with national
broadcaster RTE that company debts of more than 1 billion euros
had left him broke.  
 A spokesman for McNamara, 60, declined to comment on the
reports. Brendan Walsh, the sheriff reported by the  Irish
Independent  to have seized McNamara’s art, said by telephone he
couldn’t comment on individual cases.  
 ‘Poundage’  
 The Irish system predates the 12th century, according to  
Stafford . The sheriffs earn commission known as “poundage” on
the goods they take, taking 5 percent on the first 5,500 euros,
or 275 euros. They are entitled to 2.5 percent on any additional
balance, according to tax authorities.  
 Sheriffs acting for the tax office chased debts of 697.4
million euros last year, up 31 percent from 2006.  
 “They love motor vehicles because they can be driven
away,” said Stafford, who published a leaflet entitled  Keeping
the Sheriff at Bay . “They don’t like dealing with cattle.”  
 Ireland sank into the mire as property prices plunged as
much as 50 percent from their 2007 peak and the country’s
biggest banks needed rescuing from bad debt. The government
spent 7 billion euros bailing out Bank of Ireland Plc and Allied
Irish Banks Plc and nationalized Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  
 Irish households are among the world’s most indebted after
lending more than tripled in the decade through 2007, according
to Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin.  
 “One home I visited was palatial, an absolute palace,”
said Fitzpatrick, who has been a sheriff since 1979 and employs
about 20 people. “The guy was reduced to bankruptcy. He was
emotional. I don’t think he had anything left.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Louisa Fahy  at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians walk past a branch of Allied Irish Banks Plc. (AIB) in Dublin. Photographer: Crispin Rodwell/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
