-- Siemens Says Fewer Employees Break Rules in Compliance Drive
-- Richard Weiss
-- 2010-07-27T09:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/siemens-says-fewer-employees-break-rules-in-compliance-drive.html

          
          
             Siemens AG, Europe’s largest
engineering company, said the number of workers fired for
breaking compliance rules has tumbled, with about 90 workers
dismissed in the first nine months of its financial year.  
 The German maker of turbines, trains and health-care
scanners has lost no business since introducing stricter rules
and margins remain undented, board member  Peter Solmssen  said in
an interview at the company’s headquarters on July 19. About 240
employees were dismissed in each of the past two fiscal years.  
 “We say no, and we still get the deal,” said Solmssen,
appointed to oversee legal and compliance affairs in 2007.  
 Siemens, which ousted more than 600 employees from 2007 to
2009, investigated almost 2,200 possible violations in the wake
of a bribery scandal that cost the company about $3.2 billion.
For decades, Siemens paid kickbacks and bribes to win contracts
such as a commuter rail project in Venezuela, mobile-phone
networks in Bangladesh, power plants in Israel and traffic-
control systems in Russia.  
 Solmssen , who used to work with Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Loescher  at General Electric Co. before they both joined
Siemens, helped the German engineer tighten rules and
regulations, an effort that earned the company the top spot
among diversified industrials in the Dow Jones Sustainability
World Index.  
 Siemens has gained 19 percent in Frankfurt trading this
year for a market value of 70.2 billion euros, more than double
the 8.6 percent gain of the 81-member Bloomberg European
Industrials Index.  
 Tragic Consequences  
 The share of possible compliance violations relating to
corruption fell to 9 percent last year from 18 percent in 2007.
Breaches outside that category include theft, violation of
employment laws, according to Solmssen.  
 Other German companies have also been touched by bribery
probes. Industrial-plant contractor Ferrostaal AG faces an
investigation, while truckmaker MAN SE, part-owned by Volkswagen
AG, last year agreed to pay 150.6 million euros in fines to
settle corruption charges. Two Daimler AG units on April 1
pleaded guilty to violations in the U.S.  
 For Siemens, having to win contracts by being competitive
rather than giving backhanders isn’t hurting margins, according
to the executive. Profitability is at levels “not seen in a
long time,” Solmssen said. The German company is  headed  for
record profit this year.  
 Investigation Hubs  
 Siemens has hired professional investigators and set up
internal hubs at locations including China so that regional
managers can oversee local cases.  
 “China is an emerging market with a developing and
increasingly strict legal system,” Solmssen said.  
 The Asian nation executed its former chief drug regulator
in 2007 after being convicted to have taking bribes to allow
fake drugs to be approved.  
 There is “no country Siemens can’t do business in,”
Solmssen said.  
 This month alone, Siemens has announced orders worth
“several billions euros” from Russia for wind turbines and
trains, and the company is working with Kazakhstan’s state-run
railway company on a project worth as much as 400 million euros.
Russia ranks 146 out of 180 countries on Transparency
International’s  Corruption Perception Index 2009 , the same level
as Zimbabwe, while Kazakhstan came in on 120.  
 “It’s like with the Mafia: If you ever say yes, you’ll
never get rid of them,” Solmssen said. “Compliance is not a
program, it’s a way of doing business.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Peter Loescher, CEO of Siemens AG. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
