-- Singapore Air's Chew May Step Down After Doubling Stock
-- Chan Sue Ling
-- 2010-07-28T09:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/singapore-air-s-chew-may-exit-after-doubling-stock-through-sars-recession.html

          
          
             Singapore Airlines Ltd.  Chief
Executive Officer  Chew Choon Seng , who took a pay cut while
maintaining the carrier’s wine budget during the recession,
samples economy-class meals every month to make sure they meet
his standards.  
 That attention to detail has helped the airline’s  shares 
double during Chew’s seven years as CEO, even as he grappled
with a global recession, SARS, swine flu, record  jet-fuel  prices
and rising competition from budget airlines. Chew, 64, signaled
yesterday he will step down as head of the world’s second-
largest carrier by  market value  when his contract ends in
December.  
 “What he has done is impressive: he has navigated through
crises, with the profit record still intact,” said  Christopher Wong , a fund manager at Aberdeen Asset Management, which
oversees $45 billion of assets, including  Singapore Air  shares.
“Chew is well regarded, good at his job, a person who has grown
within the organization and you can’t find fault with him.”  
 Singapore Air’s  board  has looked at “several” candidates
to replace Chew, from both within and outside the company, and
is on schedule to name a successor, Chairman  Stephen Lee  said
yesterday, without elaboration.  
 “I should move on,” Chew said in an interview yesterday
after a shareholders meeting in Singapore. “I will hang up my
spurs first before I decide what to do next.”  
 Cost Cuts  
 Chew took over from  Cheong Choong Kong  in June 2003 when
the deadly SARS virus emptied planes. He cut capacity and labor
costs to help the carrier cope with the slump. He took similar
steps last year after business travel plunged amid the global
recession, helping the carrier avoid its  first annual loss  in
two decades.  
 The airline earlier this week reported its third straight
 quarterly profit  as the global economic rebound revived travel
demand. The carrier may post a profit of S$1.3 billion ($955
million) in the year ending in March, according to the  average 
of 23 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg, rebounding from
S$216 million last year.  
 Chew led  Singapore Air  to a record S$2.13 billion profit in
the year ended in March 2007. In October that year, he
introduced the Airbus SAS A380 superjumbo, making Singapore Air
the first carrier to fly the world’s biggest passenger jet.  
 “Everyone agrees that he’s done an excellent job,” said
 Rohan Suppiah , a Kim Eng Securities Co.  analyst  in Singapore.  
 Mechanical Engineer  
 A veteran of almost four decades at the airline, Chew is a
mechanical engineer with a Master’s of Science degree from
London’s Imperial College. He received a compensation of between
 S$2.5 million  and S$2.75 million in the year ended in March. The
airline said in June last year, Chew’s pay would be reduced by
20 percent as it reduced capacity.  
 The airline gained 2.9 percent to S$15.46, the highest
level in three months, in Singapore. Of the 23  analysts rating 
the company, 19 recommend investors ‘buy’ the stock, three say
‘hold’ and one ‘sell.’  
 During Chew’s tenure, shares of  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. 
have also doubled.  British Airways Plc  gained about 60 percent
in the period,  AMR Corp ., parent of American Airlines, rose
about 15 percent.  
 To compete with the at least 10 budget airlines that have
started in Asia-Pacific in the past decade, Chew bought new
planes such as the  Airbus A380  and ordered Boeing Co. 787s. He
also backed  Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd ., a budget carrier part-
owned by Singapore Air, which started flights in 2004.  
 Difficult Times  
 Chew sold  Singapore Aircraft Leasing Co.  to Bank of China
Ltd. in December 2006 and last year spun off  Singapore Airport
Terminal Services  Ltd. to focus more on flying operations.  
 “Chew has done a good job running SIA despite the
difficult times and growing competition in the region,” said
 Jay Ryu , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mirae Asset Securities Co.  
 He was  unsuccessful  in a bid to buy a stake in  China
Eastern Airlines Corp.  to gain a foothold in the world’s most
populous country after minority shareholders rejected the deal
in January 2008. The offer was made in partnership with
Singapore Air’s largest shareholder  Temasek Holdings Pte .  
 Singapore Air, which gets 40 percent of revenue from
premium classes, has a five-star rating from Skytrax, which
surveys airline passengers. In the 2010  World Airline Awards ,
the ratings company ranked the carrier as the world’s second-
best behind Asiana Airlines Inc. Singapore Air bagged the No. 1
slot for best cabin staff, and the No. 2 slot for both business
class and first class.  
 That’s the benchmark Chew’s successor will need to match,
said P. James, president of the Air Line Pilots Association of
Singapore, who has been with the carrier since 1986.  
 “He has taken the airline through very difficult times and
managed to rally all the staff together,” James said. “I hope
we can find someone of the same or better caliber. It’s a pair
of very big shoes for whoever is going to fill them.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan  Sue Ling  in Singapore at 
 slchan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chew Choon Seng, chief executive officer of Singapore Airlines Ltd., attends a news conference in Singapore. Photographer: Charles Pertwee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
