-- Singapore Exchange, LME Plan to Introduce Metals Futures Contracts in Asia
-- Kim Kyoungwha
-- 2010-07-28T04:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/singapore-exchange-lme-plan-to-introduce-metals-futures-contracts-in-asia.html

          
          
             The London Metal Exchange and
 Singapore Exchange Ltd.  plan to introduce cash-settled metals
futures contracts for individual investors that will be traded
and cleared at the SGX, as the Singapore company is known.  
 Copper and zinc so-called mini-contracts may begin trading
in the first quarter of next year, followed by other metals
later in 2011, subject to clearance from regulators, according
to a Singapore Exchange statement today. The new products, which
may also include a contract for steel billet, will be priced off
the contracts traded on the LME, the statement said.  
 The London Metal Exchange is expanding its presence in Asia,
the world’s fastest-growing region, led by China, the biggest
metals user. The LME plans to construct more warehouses in Asia
and opened an office in Singapore earlier this year.  
 “The world’s metals traders are definitely moving to the
region because of the emergence of China and India,”  Ben Westmore , commodity economist with National Australia Bank Ltd,
said today. “Taking a more medium- to long-term view, imports
of metals in China will continue in the coming years and that’s
why all of the world’s metals exchanges are focusing on the
region,” he said.  
 Three-month delivery copper futures have advanced 17
percent from this year’s low of $6,037.50, driven by rising
Asian demand. The contract has climbed 30 percent in the past 12
months and traded at $7,084 a metric ton at 10:53 a.m. in
Singapore. The LMEX Index of six industrial metals has gained 21
percent in the past year.  
 ‘Strong Interest’  
 “These contracts will create increased trading, hedging
and arbitraging opportunities at a time of strong interest in
metals trading in Asia,”  Magnus Bocker , chief executive officer
of SGX, said in the statement. Bocker took up his position in
December last year.  
 Asian market participants would benefit from local access
to the LME’s benchmark prices in non-ferrous metals and steel
through the collaboration with SGX,  Martin Abbott , chief
executive of LME, said in the statement.  
 “We are recognizing that the growth in Asia is not
cyclical, it is structural, and more and more of the business
that we transact is going to be derived in this region,” Abbott
said in an interview earlier this month. “This is not simply a
China story.”  
 China’s economy grew 11.1 percent in the first half, while
Singapore reported a record 18.1 percent expansion.  
 The International Monetary Fund last week raised its
forecast for global growth to 4.6 percent this year, reflecting
a stronger-than-expected first half. The lender increased the
2010 growth forecasts for China to 10.5 percent and for India to
9.4 percent for the year to March.  
 SGX, operator of the city-state’s derivatives and
securities exchange, has dropped about 7.4 percent this year,
underperforming the 2.9 percent gain in the benchmark  Straits
Times Index . The stock gained for a fifth day today, rising 0.7
percent to S$7.71 at 11:58 a.m. in Singapore.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 Kkim19@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        