-- Smith & Wollensky Suit Over Hourly Wages Gets Class-Action Certification
-- William McQuillen
-- 2010-07-27T19:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/smith-wollensky-steakhouse-chain-faces-class-action-over-hourly-wages.html

          
          
             Smith & Wollensky  must face a class-
action lawsuit brought by a waiter who claims hourly workers at
the steakhouse chain’s Chicago restaurant are paid less than the
minimum wage.  
 Smith & Wollensky, a unit of closely held Patina Restaurant
Group, is accused of failing to pay the minimum, now $8.25 an
hour in Illinois, to employees who earn tips, including
waitresses and bartenders. The lawsuit will cover such employees
for earnings since March 25, 2006, U.S. District Judge  Ruben Castillo  in Chicago said yesterday in an order certifying the
case as a class action.  
 Also included are workers who worked more than 40 hours a
week and were paid less than time-and-a-half. About 140 current
and former employees may be represented by the suit, which seeks
lost wages and unspecified further damages, said Douglas Werman,
an attorney for the workers.  
 “Class certification is more efficient than individual
suits to deal with these common questions,” Castillo wrote.  
 Smith & Wollensky, based in New York, violated a law
allowing the payment of less than the minimum wage, or a so-
called tip credit, if tips plus wages equal the minimum,
according to the complaint filed by employee Gerald Schmidt.  
 The Chicago restaurant required workers to perform non-
tipped duties before opening and closing, while still paying
them the lower tip-credit hourly wage, Schmidt claimed. The
company also allowed non-tipped employees to share in the tip
pool, violating Illinois minimum-wage laws, he said.  
 Smith & Wollensky didn’t immediately return a message
seeking comment. The company, which has restaurants in nine
cities, argued that the lawsuit was filled with “highly
individualized” inquiries and shouldn’t be a class action,
according to Castillo’s order.  
 The case is Schmidt v. Smith & Wollensky LLC, 09-cv-2752,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington
at   bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        