-- Soccer Clubs Threatened With Bankruptcy on High Salaries, Consultant Says
-- Richard Weiss
-- 2010-07-27T14:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/soccer-clubs-threatened-with-bankruptcy-on-high-salaries-consultant-says.html

          
          
             Soccer clubs in Europe may be facing
bankruptcy unless changes including stricter financial controls
are put in place, according to an A.T. Kearney study that looked
at teams in England, Spain, Germany, France and Italy.  
 “Running as normal companies, the leagues in Spain,
England, and Italy would be bankrupt within two years,”
Kearney’s Munich-based vice president Juergen Rothenbuecher and
colleagues wrote in a report called Football Sustainability
Study. Some clubs, even bigger ones, may disappear through
bankruptcy in the next few years, the consultants wrote.  
 Financial statistics in some leagues are “shocking”
because of players’ “enormous salaries,” the key reason for
the situation, the management consultant company said. The clubs
in the five leagues also spend more on players than they take in
from selling others.  
 Cristiano Ronaldo  left Manchester United last year for Real
Madrid in a world-record 80 million-pound ($124 million)
transaction. Ronaldo signed a six-year contract with Real that
made him the world’s highest-paid soccer player with an annual
salary of 13 million euros ($17 million), according to Spanish
newspaper Marca. Manchester City in September 2008 spent 32.5
million pounds to sign Brazil forward Robinho from Real Madrid,
a British-record transfer fee.  
 The current economic system “encourages overinvestment and
extreme risk-taking” in order to win games, “far beyond
economic sense,” the authors wrote. The study ranks the five
largest European leagues according to sports results, economic,
social, and environmental performance.  
 Bundesliga Top  
 Germany’s Bundesliga tops the overall ranking, with the
English Premier League second, followed by France’s Ligue 1,
Spain’s Primera Division, and Italy’s Serie A.  
 Club owners seeking trophy glory, political capital, or the
fulfillment of childhood dreams endanger clubs and leagues, the
consultants said. Since acquiring Chelsea in 2003,  Roman Abramovich  invested more than $1 billion to turn the club into
one of the world’s best-known teams. Abu Dhabi United Group for
Development and Investment has invested millions in buying
players since taking over Manchester City in 2008.  
 Portsmouth in February became the first Premier League
soccer club to seek protection from creditors. The club was
close to being liquidated because of an unpaid 12.1 million-
pound tax bill, and was docked nine points by the league on
March 17 for entering administration, a form of bankruptcy. In
2002, Italy’s Fiorentina Calcio was declared bankrupt.  
 Leagues need to adopt common financial control measures at
national and European levels, while some leagues must upgrade
stadiums, create academies for young talent and get more media-
rights revenue to avoid failure of a league that could result in
a systemic crisis, the consultants wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        