-- South Africa's Kebble Paid $273,000 to Arrange His Own Murder, Court Hears
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-07-27T15:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/south-africa-s-kebble-paid-273-000-to-arrange-his-own-murder-court-hears.html

          
          
             South African mining magnate  Brett Kebble  paid  Glenn Agliotti  2 million rand ($273,000) to have his
own murder arranged five years ago, one of the men who said he 
was hired to perform the assassination told a Johannesburg
court.  
 Nigel McGurk, a nightclub doorman, today told the South
Gauteng High Court that he was one of three men who followed
Kebble through northern Johannesburg in a black Volkswagen Golf
on the night of Sept. 27, 2005. Boxer Michael Schultz shot
Kebble seven times on his third attempt at the killing that
night after the murder weapon twice jammed, McGurk said.
Agliotti has been charged with Kebble’s murder.  
 Agliotti was a friend of Kebble’s and was paid to arrange
the killing, McGurk said, citing a conversation he says he had
with Clinton Nassif, who recruited McGurk, Schultz and a driver,
Faizel Smith. The four men have turned state witness to avoid
prosecution.  
 In an 11 year career in South Africa’s gold mining
industry, Kebble helped set up two of the country’s four biggest
gold companies,  Harmony Gold Mining Co.  and  DRDGold Ltd. , and
became chief executive officer of  Randgold & Exploration Ltd. ,
JCI Ltd. and Western Areas Ltd. He stepped down from the posts a
month before his death at the insistence of creditors after
assets belonging to Randgold & Exploration went missing.  
 Agliotti has pleaded not guilty to charges of murder,
conspiracy to murder and attempted murder. He has said that the
death of 41-year-old Kebble was an “assisted suicide” and had
been requested by the mining executive.  
 ‘Dirty Work’  
 McGurk told the court he had previously worked for
Agliotti “intimidating people,” collecting debts, ensuring his
underage daughter was let into nightclubs and doing other
“dirty work.”  
 Dressed in a dark navy suit, McGurk told the court the
killers had aborted an attempt to kill Kebble the night before
his death, because the car that they were driving overheated.  
 “The fact that the car had overheated, the gun had jammed,
it didn’t look too professional,” McGurk said.  
 Months after the killing, McGurk met Agliotti in
Johannesburg strip club The Grand, where he complained that he
had yet to receive the full 500,000 rand payment that he had
been promised, which he needed to complete the purchase of a car
for his wife, he said.  
 Agliotti said that he had given all of the money to
Nassif, who coordinated the shooting, McGurk said.  
 ‘Out of Commission’  
 Agliotti is also charged with conspiracy to murder Mark
Bristow, the chief executive officer of  Randgold Resources Ltd. ,
 Jean Nortier , the chief executive officer of  Uranium One Ltd. ,
Mark Wellesley-Wood, the former chief executive officer of
 DRDGold  and  Stephen Mildenhall , a fund manager with Allan
Gray Ltd., according to the charge sheet.  
 McGurk told the court he hired two Cape Town residents at
Nassif’s request to put Mildenhall “out of commission for two
to three months” in 2005, before driving 800 miles (1,287
kilometers) through the night back to Johannesburg to drive his
child to school. Mildenhall, who was shot and injured at his
home in Cape Town on Aug. 31, 2005, had been examining Kebble’s
companies, he said. Mildenhall is scheduled to testify at the
trial tomorrow.  
 McGurk and Schultz have agreed to testify against Agliotti.
Their involvement was discovered in 2006, when Nassif was
arrested, McGurk said.  
 “Clint Nassif was arrested and then the beans was spilt,”
McGurk said. “That’s why I’m here.”  
 ‘The Landlord’  
 The trial was delayed because Agliotti, a convicted drug
dealer whom prosecutors say is known as ‘the landlord’ in
criminal circles, served as a witness in the trial of former
South African police chief  Jackie Selebi , who was found guilty
of corruption on July 2.  
 Randgold & Exploration shares were suspended in 2005 after
the loss of the assets was discovered. They resumed trade in
Johannesburg on June 4 this year after JCI agreed to return some
assets that Randgold & Exploration said had been improperly
transferred to it.  
 The assets that went missing in 2005, including Randgold
Resources shares, would today be worth about 16 billion rand,
Chief Executive Officer Marais Steyn said last month. Randgold &
Exploration now has a market value of 404 million rand.  
 The case is: State versus Agliotti, Norbert Glenn, JPV
2008/264, SS154/2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        