-- South Africa Loses More Jobs, Undermining Strength of Economy's Recovery
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-07-27T13:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/south-african-jobless-rate-rises-to-25-3-undermining-economic-recovery.html

          
          
             South Africa’s  unemployment rate ,
the highest of 62 countries tracked by Bloomberg, was little
changed in the second quarter as the economy failed to create
jobs, undermining the strength of the recovery.  
 The jobless rate increased to 25.3 percent from 25.2
percent in the first quarter,  Statistics South Africa  said in a
report released in Pretoria today. The number of people with
work fell by 61,000 to 12.7 million.  
 Rising job losses may curb consumer spending, which
accounts for two-thirds of demand in the economy, just as the
recovery begins to stall. Growth in Africa’s biggest  economy 
probably slowed in the second quarter after expanding an
annualized 4.6 percent in the previous three months, Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  and Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus 
said this month.  
 “The fall in employment is disappointing, but not
completely unexpected as confidence remains weak and both the
local and global recoveries remain fragile,” Johannes Khosa, an
economist at Johannesburg-based  Nedbank Group Ltd. , said in a
note to clients. “Modest gains are possible later in the
year.”  
 The biggest decline in employment during the second quarter
was recorded in the manufacturing industry, which shed 53,000
workers, the agency said, as the debt crisis in Europe, consumer
of about a third of South Africa’s exports, curbed demand.  
 Job Creation  
 Agriculture lost 32,000 jobs while employment in the
construction industry fell by 15,000, the agency said. Mining
companies added 9,000 workers in the quarter.  
 “The unemployment rate remained virtually unchanged, but
the rate of job losses seemed to have slowed down,” Yandiswa
Mpetsheni, executive manager of labor statistics at the agency,
told reporters in Pretoria today. “The economy is not yet
creating jobs.”  
 Job losses totaled 870,000 last year as the economy fell
into its first recession in 17 years, undermining President
 Jacob Zuma ’s pledge to cut the  unemployment  rate to 14 percent
by 2014. The Reserve Bank has cut its benchmark interest  rate 
seven times to 6.5 percent since December 2008 to help offset
the impact of declining employment.  
 More than 60 percent of those who are unemployed have been
without jobs for more than a year, Mpetsheni said. The expanded
unemployment rate, which includes those people that have given
up looking for work, increased to 35.9 percent last quarter from
35.4 percent in the previous three months.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        