-- Filmmaker Stone Apologizes for Remark on Holocaust, Jewish Media Influence
-- Anthony Palazzo
-- 2010-07-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/stone-apologizes-for-comments-about-the-holocaust-jewish-media-influence.html

          
          
             Filmmaker  Oliver Stone  apologized
for remarks about the Holocaust and Jewish media influence that
were criticized as being anti-Semitic.  
 “In trying to make a broader historical point about the
range of atrocities the Germans committed against many people, I
made a clumsy association about the Holocaust, for which I am
sorry and I regret,” Stone said in a statement released
yesterday by his publicist, Rubenstein Communications.  
 The apology followed comments Stone made to the Sunday
Times of London. In an  interview  promoting a new documentary,
Stone also discussed a project in the works, “Secret History of
America.”  
 “Hitler was a Frankenstein, but there was also a Dr.
Frankenstein,” Stone told the Times. “German Industrialists,
the Americans and the British. He had a lot of support.”  
 Stone sought to put the atrocities in proportion, the Times
reported. “Hitler did far more damage to the Russians than the
Jewish people, 25 or 30 million,” Stone told the newspaper.  
 Stone also discussed in the article what he called “Jewish
domination of the media,” and said Israel “f***** up United
States foreign policy for years.”  
 The comments drew a response from  David Harris , executive
director of the  American Jewish Committee , an advocacy group
that promotes “societies that respect the dignity of all
peoples.”  
 ‘Toxic Stereotype’  
 “By invoking this grotesque, toxic stereotype, Oliver
Stone has outed himself as an anti-Semite,” Harris said in a
statement. “For all of Stone’s progressive pretensions, his
remark is no different from one of the drunken, Jew-hating rants
of his fellow Hollywood celebrity,  Mel Gibson .”  
 Stone, whose sequel to “Wall Street” is scheduled for
release in two months by  News Corp. ’s Fox studio, has been
promoting a documentary about South American politics called
“South of the Border,” which was shown in February at the
Santa Barbara International Film Festival.  
 “His apology was necessary and we accept it,” the New
York-based  American Gathering  of Holocaust Survivors and Their
Descendants said in a statement. “But whether he acted out of
sincerity or as a desperate response to the moral outcry at his
comments is an open question. He must be judged by his future
words and deeds.”  
 The 10-hour “Oliver Stone’s Secret History of America” is
being produced by Stone’s Ixtlan Productions and is scheduled to
be distributed by CBS Corp.’s Showtime Networks.  
 ‘Wall Street’  
 Showtime hasn’t set a release date for the series, which is
still in production, the network said in a statement. The views
expressed in the Times interview aren’t part of the series,
Showtime said.  
 Fox is scheduled to release “Wall Street: Money Never
Sleeps” on Sept. 24, according to the Internet Movie Database.
The film, a sequel to Stone’s 1987 hit, features  Michael Douglas 
in a reprise of his role as financier Gordon Gekko, along with
 Shia LaBeouf  and  Josh Brolin . It cost $70 million to make,
according to IMDB.com.  
 Fox, part of  Rupert Murdoch ’s media empire, plans no
changes in the movie’s release, said  Chris Petrikin , a spokesman
for the studio.  
 “Jews obviously do not control media or any other
industry,” Stone said in yesterday’s statement. “The fact that
the Holocaust is still a very important, vivid and current
matter today is, in fact, a great credit to the very hard work
of a broad coalition of people committed to the remembrance of
this atrocity -- and it was an atrocity.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Film Director Oliver Stone. Photographer: Ian Gavan/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
