-- Subbarao's Accelerated Rate Increases Leave India Inflation Eroding Income
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-07-28T11:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/subbarao-s-accelerated-rate-increases-leave-india-inflation-eroding-income.html

          
          
             The accelerated pace of interest-
rate increases by India’s central bank may fail to quell the
fastest inflation in the Group of 20 as the nation suffers the
consequence of underinvestment in electricity and transportation.  
 Reserve Bank of India Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  boosted one
of the benchmark rates by a half point yesterday for the first
time since 2008, and pledged to review borrowing costs at
meetings every six weeks, up from once a quarter. The steps
followed five months of wholesale inflation exceeding 10 percent.  
 Subbarao’s efforts are hampered by what he said yesterday
are capacity limits across a “wide range” of industries, a
trend likely to leave inflation undermining the purchasing power
of a population where the poor outnumber those in Sub-Saharan
Africa. An even faster pace of rate increases would risk curbing
the credit needed to invest in power, roads and railways.  
 “Inflation is likely to remain uncomfortably very high for
a long time,” said  Jahangir Aziz , the Mumbai-based chief
economist for India at JPMorgan Chase & Co., who previously
worked at the finance ministry. “What they are trying to do is
to ensure that capacity constraints are eased with some amount
of investment,” while at the same time trying to prevent
inflation expectations from getting “out of hand,” he said.  
 The central bank yesterday raised its forecast for economic
growth as a strengthening domestic demand trumps concern that
the global economy will slow amid Europe’s debt crisis and
elevated U.S. unemployment.  
 Stocks, Bonds  
 The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  fell 0.7
percent. India’s 10-year government bond yields climbed three
basis points to 7.75 percent while the rupee declined 0.1
percent to 46.73 against the dollar as of 4:21 p.m. in Mumbai.  
 Higher borrowing costs, along with capacity limits to
India’s infrastructure, make it tougher for the government to
realize its goal of sustained 10 percent economic growth and cut
poverty in the country. The World Bank estimates 76 percent of
Indians live on less than $2 a day, compared with 72 percent in
the Sub-Saharan African nations.  
 “When you have double-digit inflation in food, in fuel, in
cotton for three-fourths of the population it starts to really
pinch them,”  Vikas Pershad , chief executive officer at Chicago-
based hedge fund Veda Investments LLC, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “The RBI is moving in the right
direction,” he added, predicting the repurchase rate will
approach 7 percent in a year’s time.  
 Four Increases  
 The Reserve Bank has increased  rates  four times since March,
the most by any central bank in Asia. The bank yesterday raised
the  reverse repurchase rate  to 4.5 percent from 4 percent and
the repurchase rate to 5.75 percent from 5.5 percent, as it
forecast the inflation rate to reach 6 percent by March 31,
higher than the 5.5 percent projected in April.  
 “We hope that inflation will come down to 5 percent in the
long-term and in the medium term 4 to 4.5 percent,” Subbarao
told economists and analysts in a conference call today. “We
need to have a balance between inhibiting demand-side pressures
and encouraging supply-side responses and that’s the balance we
are trying to achieve.”  
 The central bank is also considering more rigorous tests of
the nation’s banks to support confidence in the financial system,
the Financial Times quoted Subbarao as saying yesterday.  
 Growth  in India’s $1.2 trillion economy may accelerate to
8.5 percent, faster than the previous estimate of 8 percent, the
bank said, straining capacities in power, ports and factories.  
 ‘Out of Control’  
 “The inflation risk is heightened by capacities
approaching their peak,”  Subir Gokarn , a deputy governor at the
central bank, said in an interview with Bloomberg UTV television
channel in Mumbai yesterday. “Growth is approaching its
potential and we want to keep it like that, but at the same time
we want to ensure that it doesn’t go beyond a point where
inflationary pressures go out of control.”  
 Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. , the nation’s biggest carmaker,
worked at capacity in the year through March and sold 1.02
million vehicles. The company now plans to spend 17 billion
rupees to raise production to 1.25 million units a year,
according to a statement on its website.  
 Tata Steel Ltd. , India’s biggest producer of alloy,
produced 6.6 million metric tons of crude steel in the year
ended March 31, against a 6.8 million tons capacity. It won
government approval in June to expand capacity by 43 percent to
9.7 million metric tons.  
 Infrastructure Woes  
 Constraints in ports and power also increase the cost of
doing business in India.  
 Infrastructure spending accounts for just 4 percent of
India’s gross domestic product compared with 9 percent of GDP in
China, according to CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.  
 As a result, China produced 346.7 billion kilowatt-hours of
power last month, data from the Beijing-based National Bureau of
Statistics showed. That’s about six times the electricity
generated in India each month, according to the nation’s Central
Electricity Authority.  
 The average turnaround time for ships unloading and loading
cargo at India’s major ports is almost four days, compared with
10 hours in Hong Kong, India’s finance ministry estimates.  
 Frederic Neumann , a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc., said the South Asian nation needs to step up
investments in infrastructure to help cut companies’ operational
costs. In 2009, China’s investment rate was 45 percent of its
gross domestic product compared with 37 percent in India,
Neumann said.  
 Rising wages are also fueling inflationary pressures in
India.  
 Nokia India Pvt. said July 14 that it signed a long-term
wage agreement with employees.  Wipro Ltd. , India’s third-largest
software exporter, said it increased salaries by 9 percent in
the quarter ended March 31, while larger rival  Infosys
Technologies Ltd.  gave 14 percent to 16 percent wage increases
to retain workers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Duvvuri Subbarao, governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Photographer: Adeel Halim/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Indranil Pan, chief economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Mark Barton about the outlook for Reserve Bank of India monetary policy.
     India needs tighter monetary policy to cool inflation, the central bank said, signaling the possibility of an interest-rate increase today. Pan, speaking from Mumbai, also discusses the government's decision to allow state-run refiners to raise gasoline and diesel costs in a bid to cut its subsidies bill. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Vikas Pershad, chief executive officer of Chicago-based Veda Investments LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for Indian stocks.
     Pershad, speaking from Chicago, also discusses India's economy and central bank monetary policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  7/28 RBI's Subbarao Excerpt 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
