-- Sumitomo Mitsui, Japanese Banks Rise After Basel Committee Relaxes Rules
-- Finbarr Flynn
-- 2010-07-27T02:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/sumitomo-mitsui-japanese-banks-rise-after-basel-committee-relaxes-rules.html

          
          
             Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. ,
Japan’s second-largest bank by market value, led banks higher in
Tokyo after the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision softened
some of its proposed capital rules.  
 Sumitomo Mitsui  rose  3.3 percent to 2,599 yen at the 11 a.m.
trading break in Tokyo, the most in more than two weeks.
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , the nation’s largest bank
gained 3.2 percent, while  Mizuho Financial Group Inc.  climbed
2.2 percent.  
 “The Basel Committee’s easing of restrictions gives
investors a reason to take another look at Japanese banks, which
have been cheap recently,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees
about $450 million in assets in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co. “It eases concerns about capital raising.”  
 Japan has fought against rules that would eliminate the use
of deferred tax assets as capital. The global regulators agreed
yesterday to allow certain assets, including deferred tax assets,
to count as capital, according to a  statement .  
 The country’s three largest banks have raised about 4.5
trillion yen ($52 billion) by selling shares since December 2008,
as they bolstered their balance sheets after regulators called
for banks to hold more capital.  
 Deferred tax assets are past losses used by lenders to
offset tax charges in future years. The Basel Committee said in
a statement yesterday that deferred tax assets can be included
in common equity up to a limit of 10 percent. The panel had
previously considered requiring banks to deduct all deferred
assets from share capital.  
 The  Topix Banks Index , which tracks 83 lenders, gained 2.1
percent, the biggest gainer in the benchmark index.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        