-- Swaps Suggest Sovereign Losses Rise With Rate Increases: Canada Credit
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-07-27T04:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/swaps-suggest-sovereign-losses-rise-with-rate-increases-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Canada’s government bonds, already
the world’s third-worst performers in July, may be poised to
extend losses as traders bet the only Group of Seven nation to
raise interest rates since July 2008 will continue to do so.  
 The six-month overnight index swap  rate , a measure of what
investors predict the central bank rate will average during that
time, was 0.967 percent yesterday, the highest since December
2008. The yield on the December 2010 bankers’ acceptances
contract ended yesterday at 1.37 percent, up 12 basis points
since July 19, the day before Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  raised rates for the second time in less than two months.  
 Government debt maturing in more than one year has lost 0.6
percent since June 30, the worst returns among the 26 countries
tracked by Bloomberg except for Greek and U.K. debt. Carney said
on July 20 that that any further reduction of monetary stimulus
would have to be “weighed carefully against domestic and global
economic developments” when policy makers increased their
target rate by a quarter percentage point to 0.75 percent.  
 “Tighter central-bank policy puts upward pressure on
short-term rates, that translates into upward pressure on medium
term rates and longer-term rates,”   Sal Guatieri , a senior
economist at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets, said by
phone from Toronto. Investors should “reduce exposure to bonds
by late this year, certainly early next year as the central bank
continues to tighten policy.”  
 Bond Returns  
 Canada’s sovereign debt has dropped 0.56 percent since June
30 after cumulative gains of 3.7 percent in May, June and July,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. A July
decline for Canadian bonds would be the first since March. The
government bond market, with C$311 billion ($302 billion)
outstanding, has returned 4 percent this year, after losing 1.5
percent in 2009.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canadian corporations rather than the
federal government widened yesterday to 143 basis points, from
142 at the end of last week, according to the Merrill Lynch
data.  
 Canada’s gross domestic product rose 0.2 percent in May,
after unexpectedly stalling in April, Statistics Canada is
likely to say on July 30, according to the median of 20
estimates in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  
 ‘Pretty Clear Signal’  
 Bankruptcies fell 9.2 percent in May from the previous
month, the Canada’s bankruptcy superintendent reported on its
website. The number of  bankruptcies  filed by consumers and
businesses declined to 8,236 in May. From a year ago, they fell
21 percent.  
 The central bank’s target rate will reach 1.75 percent by
the middle of 2011, according to the weighted average of five
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. That compares with a 0.75
percent forecast for the U.S. policy rate.  
 “Investors should consider scaling into short bond
positions” as Carney continues to raise interest rates, said
 Eric Lascelles , chief economics and rates strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank. “The index could hold its own, but it’s hard to
imagine any huge gains in future months.”  
 The yield on Canada’s 10-year benchmark bonds held steady
yesterday at 3.22 percent, as the 3.5 percent security due in
June 2020 traded at C$102.35.  
 July’s losses are “a pretty clear signal that the bond
market believes conditions are improving,” Lascelles said by
phone from Toronto. Toronto-Dominion is Canada’s second-largest
bank. “I think yields are too low in Canada, and so by
definition it’s hard for a total-return index to perform in that
environment.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        