-- Haeco Falls Most in Two Months After Swire Walks Away From Buyout Offer
-- Neil Denslow
-- 2010-07-28T11:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/swire-pacific-scraps-plans-to-acquire-haeco-after-failing-to-get-90-stake.html

          
          
             Hong Kong Aircraft Engineering Co.
fell the most in two months in Hong Kong trading after Swire
Pacific Ltd. scrapped a bid to buy the airplane-maintenance
provider.  
 Swire, the biggest shareholder in Cathay Pacific Airways
Ltd., said yesterday it wouldn’t extend or revise its offer
after failing to get enough support from Haeco shareholders to
complete a buyout. Investors owning about 15 percent of Haeco
accepted Swire’s HK$105 a share offer, according to a Hong Kong
stock exchange statement. That raised Swire’s stake to 76
percent, short of the 90 percent that allows for the compulsory
acquisition of outstanding shares.  
 Swire offered a total of HK$9.4 billion ($1.2 billion) to
buy outstanding shares of Haeco in a bet that rebounding global
economy will stoke demand for air travel and plane repairs.
Affiliate Cathay Pacific sold its 15 percent stake in the
maintenance company at the offer price to help raise funds for
planes and a new air-cargo terminal in Hong Kong.  
 Haeco  declined  1.9 percent, the most since May 25, to
HK$103.00. Swire closed unchanged at HK$94.35.  
 Swire’s offer was 25 percent higher than Haeco’s closing
price on June 4, the last day of trading before the bid was
announced. Swire owned 46 percent of Haeco when it made the
offer.  
 Haeco operates facilities in Hong Kong, China, Singapore
and Bahrain and has ventures with companies including Boeing Co.,
Honeywell International Inc. and Goodrich Corp.  
 The maintenance company will seek a three-month waiver from
a stock-exchange rule that forces listed companies to have at
least 25 percent of their shares freely traded.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Neil Denslow  at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        