-- Swiss Re to Provide Alabama Insurer Fund With Three-Year Hurricane Cover
-- Inyoung Hwang
-- 2010-07-27T21:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/swiss-re-to-provide-alabama-insurer-fund-with-three-year-hurricane-cover.html

          
          
             Swiss Reinsurance Co. , the world’s
second-largest reinsurer, said it has sold  Alabama ’s state
insurance fund three years of hurricane coverage.  
 Under the contract, Swiss Re will pay Alabama for a defined
event, such as a hurricane with a particular wind speed, rather
than for the insured loss, Nikhil da Victoria Lobo, vice
president of Swiss Re’s public sector unit, said today in a
telephone interview.  
 “This type of protection is a particularly powerful
instrument for the public sector, for governments and
development banks,” da Victoria Lobo said. “A lot of their
risks are not neatly packaged into traditional insurance
forms.”  
 Last year, Swiss Re and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. managed a
sale by the Mexican government for $290 million of catastrophe
bonds that covered a three-year period. The reinsurer has struck
similar public-private partnerships with other governments in
the Caribbean and Africa, according to da Victoria Lobo. The
sale to Alabama is the first U.S. transaction of this kind, he
said.  
 The U.S. makes up Swiss Re’s largest market, accounting for
 41 percent  of premium revenue as of Dec. 31. Swiss Re is in
discussions with other U.S. states with similar risk profiles in
the region for potential future deals, according to da Victoria
Lobo.  
 Arm’s-Length Deal  
 Walter Bell , non-executive chairman of Swiss Re America
Holding Corp., was named the insurance commissioner of Alabama
in 2003 and held that post until he went to Swiss Re in 2008.
Bell was not involved in the deal because he committed to stay
clear of state business for a specific period following his
tenure as commissioner, according to da Victoria Lobo.  
 Ben Spillers, risk manager of the Alabama Department of
Finance, was not available to comment on a telephone call made
to his office.  
 Swiss Re transferred $200 million of hurricane risk for two
North Carolina insurance organizations through Parkton
Reinsurance Ltd. The reinsurer’s U.S. operation said last year
it will buy reinsurance from the Cayman Islands-based Parkton Re
to give catastrophe protection.  
 The  Massachusetts Property Insurance Underwriting
Association , a state-run pool for properties that can’t buy
coverage elsewhere, sold $96 million of catastrophe bonds to
protect against hurricane damage in a deal managed by  Munich Re .
The three-year securities will pay 7 percentage points more than
three-month Treasury bills, Munich Re said July 9 in a
statement.  
 Alabama ranks 12th in the U.S. in the value of its insured
coastal property, which totals $92.5 billion, according to 2007
data from catastrophe-modeling firm AIR Worldwide. Massachusetts
ranks fourth with $723 billion, behind Florida, New York and
Texas. The total for Florida was about $2.5 trillion.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        