-- U.K. Needs Alternative to Trident Submarine Nuclear Deterrent, RUSI Says
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-07-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/u-k-needs-alternative-to-trident-submarine-nuclear-deterrent-rusi-says.html

          
          
             The U.K. should consider replacing
its submarine-based Trident nuclear deterrent with a cheaper
system, a defense research body said, as Prime Minister  David Cameron  seeks the biggest spending cuts since World War II.  
 The U.K. remains unnecessarily wedded to a system of
continuous nuclear defense that isn’t designed to deal with the
threat from potential enemies, the  Royal United Services
Institute  said in a  study  published in London today. Replacing
Trident with a comparable system would lead to cutbacks in the
budget for other parts of the armed forces, it added.  
 The scope of Britain’s nuclear defenses have “remained
largely unchanged since the 1960s, when a surprise attack on
Western Europe by the Soviet Union was a central driver for U.K.
force planning,” Malcolm Chalmers, the author, said in the
report. “There is now a strong case for a re-examination.”  
 The U.K. government is planning to spend about 20 billion
pounds ($31 billion) over the next two decades to replace the
existing Vanguard-class submarines, which carry Trident nuclear
missiles and are due to come out of service in 2024. Defense
Secretary  Liam Fox  said this month he will look at the Trident
program in 2014 to see whether it can use three submarines
instead of four.  
 BAE Systems Plc  and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  are among the
major contractors that would build the submarines planned to
replace the Vanguard-class vessels. Cameron last month said
there is a case for “bearing down” on the cost of the Trident
program.  
 The U.K. is examining its defense capabilities in a review
that will be published this fall, when Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  maps out government spending plans for
the next three years.  
 Chalmers said money could be saved by halving the number of
boats, having a single submarine fleet for both conventional and
nuclear roles or scrapping the submarine-based system and
maintaining a non-deployed arsenal.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        