-- U.K. Sells 6 Billion Pounds of Inflation-Linked Bonds as Demand Returns
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-07-27T11:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/u-k-sells-30-year-index-linked-bonds-yield-may-be-same-as-2037-debt.html

          
          
             The U.K. will raise 6 billion pounds
($9.3 billion) selling inflation-linked securities today,
pricing the debt at the same yield as a similar issue after
government changes to indexing rules failed to dissuade buyers.  
 The 0.625 percent 2040 index-linked bond, which was sold
through a syndicate of banks, was initially set to yield zero to
two basis points more than the 1.125 percent index-linked gilt
maturing in November 2037, according to a banker involved in the
transaction.  
 The two-month-old Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition
last month said it will align state pensions to consumer price
inflation, or  CPI , instead of retail price inflation, or RPI.
Analysts said the government would save money with the change.
All inflation-linked British bonds are indexed to RPI. Demand at
a non-syndicated offering of inflation-linked notes two weeks
ago reached a two-year low for that issue amid speculation
pension-fund managers were now avoiding the debt.  
 “U.K. inflation-linked bonds offer good value, and I’m not
surprised that the sale went relatively well,” said  John Stopford , head of fixed income at Investec Asset Management
Ltd., which has $65 billion under management. “We don’t know
what will happen to the proposed change in indexation, but
demand to hedge inflation is there.” Stopford declined to say
whether he participated in the sale.  
 Inflation Expectations  
 Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., HSBC Holdings
Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are managing the issue.
The sale is part of 165 billion pounds of bonds the Treasury
plans to issue in the fiscal year that will end in March. Of the
total, 33.8 billion pounds will be in inflation-protected
securities, the Debt Management Office’s data shows.  
 U.K. index-linked bonds returned 0.80 percent this year,
compared with a gain of 5.04 percent from regular bonds, data
compiled by Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit shows.  
 The 30-year  breakeven rate , a gauge of inflation
expectations derived from the yield difference between regular
and index-linked bonds, was little changed from yesterday at
3.36 percentage points. That compares with 3.77 percentage
points at the start of the year.  
 The U.K. has said it doesn’t have immediate plans to issue
CPI-linked bonds, which could help pension-fund managers avoid a
mismatch with their long-term liabilities.  
 CPI vs. RPI  
 CPI has shown inflation to be an average 0.7 percentage
point lower than RPI over the past 20 years, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. says. Consumer prices, which the Bank of England monitors,
rose 3.2 percent from a year earlier in June, while retail
prices advanced 5 percent during the same period, according to
Office for National Statistics data released on July 13.  
 BlackRock Inc.  fund manager Brian Weinstein had earlier
said he probably wouldn’t participate in today’s offering amid
“confusion” about the changes to pension indexing. The
government has also indicated it may ask company pension plans
to follow suit in switching to CPI indexing.  
 “The market certainly doesn’t like uncertainty,”
Weinstein, who is based in New York, said in an interview on
July 23. “I would want to be cautious until we get clarity.
Investors, including ourselves, would want to see how the
syndication goes given the recent change.”  
 BlackRock, the world biggest asset manager, manages more
than $3 trillion.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top Stories: TOP <GO>
Bond yield forecasts: BYFC <GO>
Top bond market news: TOP BON <GO>
World bond markets: WB <GO>
Credit market watch: CMW <GO>
Sovereign debt monitor: SOVR <GO>
Credit crunch: WWCC <GO>
Short-term liquidity SLIQ <GO>
Bonds for sale: PREL <GO>  
          
          


  


        