-- U.S. Two-Year Yield May Decline to Japan's 0.15% on Deflation, Takei Says
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-07-27T03:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/u-s-two-year-yield-may-decline-to-japan-s-0-15-on-deflation-takei-says.html

          
          
             Treasury two-year yields may fall to
match Japan’s, the lowest in the world, because of deflation in
America, said Mizuho Asset Management Co. in Tokyo, a unit of
Japan’s second-largest publicly traded bank.  
 “Two-year yields are obviously headed south,” said  Akira Takei , head of non-yen bonds at Mizuho, which has the equivalent
of $21.9 billion in assets. “I wouldn’t rule out that they will
fall to the same level as the Japanese  yield  within a year or
two. The likelihood is very high.”  
 U.S. two-year  rates  were 0.60 percent as of 12:25 p.m.
today in Tokyo. The figure dropped to a record low of 0.5516
percent on July 23. Japan’s yield was 0.151 percent, the least
of 29 bond markets tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Investors snapped up Treasuries this year as slowing U.S.
economic growth dropped the inflation rate to the lowest level
in 40 years and stocks fell, increasing demand for the relative
safety of government debt. Two-year yields, among the most
sensitive to what the Federal Reserve does with interest rates,
also slid as traders bet the central bank will keep borrowing
costs at a record low.  
 A decline in U.S. two-year yields to 0.151 percent in 12
months would bring a 1 percent gain to an investor who bought
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Treasury bulls are in a minority. A Bloomberg survey of
banks and securities companies projects the two-year yield will
climb to 1 percent by year-end, with the most recent forecasts
given the heaviest weightings.  
 Fed Deflation Concerns  
 Takei said minutes of the Fed’s June meeting released this
month show policy makers are becoming more concerned about
deflation, a general decline in prices.  
 “The economic outlook had softened somewhat and a number
of members saw the risks to the outlook as having shifted to the
downside,” the minutes said. “A few participants cited some
risk of deflation.”  
 The Fed has pledged to keep borrowing costs low for “an
extended period.” It may drop this language within six months
and say instead that it plans to hold rates down until deflation
ends, Takei said. The Bank of Japan did the same thing when it
was trying to stem a decline in prices in 2006.  
 Futures contracts on the CME Group Inc. exchange show a 38
percent chance policy makers will boost the  target lending rate 
for overnight bank loans at least a quarter-percentage point by
April, dropping from 55 percent odds a month ago.  
 U.S. consumer prices excluding energy and food rose 0.9
percent in June from a year earlier, matching the lowest since
1966, according to the Labor Department.  
 Two-year Treasuries have returned 1.9 percent in 2010,
versus 6 percent for the broad market, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. MSCI’s World Index of shares
handed investors a 1.6 percent loss after accounting for
reinvested dividends.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        