-- Most U.S. Stocks Decline After Retreat in Consumer Confidence
-- Rita Nazareth
-- 2010-07-27T21:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/u-s-stock-index-futures-climb-bank-of-america-shares-advance-in-europe.html

          
          
             Most U.S. stocks fell, with the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  declining for the first time in four
days, as retailers slid after consumer confidence retreated to a
five-month low.  
 Amazon.com Inc.  and Lowe’s Cos. Inc. dropped at least 1
percent to help lead retailers to the biggest decline among 24
S&P 500 groups.  U.S. Steel Corp. , the country’s largest
steelmaker, declined 6.4 percent after reporting an unexpected
second-quarter loss.  DuPont Co. , the third-biggest U.S. chemical
maker, gained 3.6 percent, on better-than-estimated earnings.  
 About three stocks  declined  for every two that rose on U.S.
exchanges. The  S&P 500  slipped 0.1 percent to 1,113.84 at 4 p.m.
in New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 12.26 points,
or 0.1 percent, to 10,537.69.  
 “It’s one step forward, two steps back,” said  Mike Ryan ,
New York-based head of wealth management research for the
Americas at  UBS Financial Services Inc. , which oversees about
$640 billion. “We’ve seen a very solid earnings season. The
numbers have been consistently above expectations. I don’t
believe the economy is rolling over. However, we need to get
more data on the economic front.”  
 The  Dow  average erased its 2010 loss yesterday and the S&P
500 closed above its 200-day average, spurring optimism among
chart analysts and investors who track earnings. Projections for
the fastest S&P 500 income growth since 1988 are helping
investors overcome concern that the economy will sink into its
second recession in three years.  
 Consumer Confidence  
 Stocks erased an early advance after a report showed
confidence among U.S. consumers declined in July, a sign the
lack of jobs will limit the economy’s recovery. The Conference
Board’s confidence index fell to 50.4 from a revised 54.3 in
June. The gauge was forecast to drop to 51, according the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 “It’s a disappointment,” said  John Carey , Boston-based
money-manager at Pioneer Investment Management, which oversees
more than $200 billion, referring to the consumer-confidence
report. “We need to see consumers spending to get revenue
growth that would boost earnings and stocks. We’re looking at
fairly good profits, but we need to see real sales rebound.”  
 A gauge of retailers, hotel and restaurant chains and other
consumer-discretionary companies fell 1.2 percent as a group,
the  most  of 10 industries in the S&P 500, after the confidence
data. Amazon lost 1.1 percent to $117.13, while Lowe’s dropped 3
percent to $21.15.  
 ‘Noisy’  
 “Noisy” economic reports underscore the “unusually
uncertain” outlook cited by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , according to Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Mohamed El-Erian . Corporate earnings are backward-looking, and
the key economic issue is the U.S. labor market, Pimco’s chief
executive and co-chief investment officer said in a radio
interview today with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Surveillance.  
 “The minute someone puts out a green light, and earnings
constituted a green light, you’ll see people rushing back into
risk markets,” El-Erian said. “The indicators that we look at
suggest that the economy continues to lose momentum. The key is
going to be ultimately: is the economy creating enough jobs to
make people comfortable, to allow companies to invest?”  
 U.S. Steel  slid 6.4 percent to $45.76. The largest
steelmaker unexpectedly posted a second-quarter loss after
revaluing a $1.4 billion loan made to a European unit.  
 Of the 179 companies in the S&P 500 that reported  results 
since July 12, about 82 percent have beaten the average analyst
profit forecast and earnings per share have grown 60 percent,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 DuPont, Lexmark  
 DuPont  had the biggest gain in the Dow average, advancing
3.6 percent to $40.38 after reporting second-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ estimates and raising its full-year earnings
forecast amid improving global demand. Profit excluding some
items was $1.17 a share, topping the 94-cent  average estimate  of
10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Lexmark International Inc.  surged 8.5 percent to $37.76,
for the biggest gain in the S&P 500. The maker of laser and
inkjet printers posted second-quarter revenue and profit that
topped analysts’ estimates on improving equipment and services
sales. Profit excluding some items was $1.23 a share, exceeding
the 93-cent average estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Banks Rally  
 Banks had the second-biggest gain in the S&P 500 among 24
industries, following better-than-estimated earnings at Deutsche
Bank AG and UBS AG. Wells Fargo & Co. climbed 1.7 percent to
$28.39, while  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  gained 0.9 percent to $40.69.  
 UBS  reported net income of 2.01 billion Swiss francs ($1.91
billion), beating the 1.12 billion-franc median estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Deutsche Bank said second-
quarter net income rose to 1.16 billion euros ($1.5 billion),
topping the average analyst estimate of 1.05 billion euros.  
 Banks also gained after the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision yesterday softened some of its proposed capital and
liquidity rules while introducing new restrictions on how much
lenders can borrow in order to rein in their risk-taking.  
 The panel agreed to allow certain assets, including
minority stakes in other financial firms, to count as capital.
The committee set a leverage ratio to apply to banks globally
for the first time, which could become binding by 2018, pending
further adjustments to the method of calculating banks’ assets.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Most stocks fell, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declining for the first time in four days, as retailers slid after consumer confidence retreated to a five-month low. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., discusses the outlook for the global economy and financial markets.
     El-Erian talks with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt on Bloomberg Radio's "Surveillance." (This report is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Joseph Quinlan, chief market strategist at U.S. Trust, Bank of America Private Wealth Management, and John Bougearel, director of research at Structural Logic, talk about the U.S. stock market and economy. 
     They speak with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." Bloomberg's Adam Johnson, Julie Hyman, Zahra Burton and Dominic Chu also speak. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
