-- U.S. States Expect Tax Revenue to Rise After Shrinking $84 Billion in Gaps
-- William Selway
-- 2010-07-27T14:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/u-s-states-expect-tax-revenue-to-rise-after-shrinking-84-billion-in-gaps.html

          
          
             U.S. state governments project
revenue will climb in the current fiscal year after they raised
taxes and cut spending to close budget gaps of $84 billion, a
report from the National Conference of State Legislatures found.  
 Revenue will increase 3.7 percent, after falling 1.5
percent in fiscal 2010. Even so, deficits of more than $12
billion may open for at least 29 states should Congress fail to
extend extra aid, while two-thirds already forecast fiscal 2012
gaps of $72 billion, according to the conference’s survey.  
 “While many states appear to be in a more stable situation
-- the revenue freefall has abated -- they are far from clearing
the hurdles wrought by the recession,” the Washington-based
group said in the report released today. “The revenue chasm was
so deep that climbing out of it is going to take some time.”  
 States are beginning to emerge from the fiscal crisis
brought on by the recession in 2007, which sent the national
 unemployment  rate above 10 percent last year and cut into the
taxes they use to pay for schools, public safety and other
government programs.  
 While the economy has been expanding and businesses have
begun adding jobs, tax collections have yet to fully rebound.
According to the U.S. Census, states collected $691 billion of
taxes in the 12 months through the end of March, roughly the
same pace as in 2006.  
 Medicaid Aid  
 Governors are pressing Congress to extend the additional
funding for Medicaid, the state-run health care plan for the
poor, that they received under the economic stimulus legislation
passed last year. That aid is set to lapse at year-end, which
would force states that anticipated receiving it, including
California and New York, to make deeper spending cuts to close
that gap.  
 While the House of Representatives has moved to approve
such aid, the plans have stalled in the Senate.  
 “States budgets are in transition, apparently improving as
state revenues stabilize and begin their slow march to pre-
recession levels,” the group wrote. “But many uncertainties
lurk, with their impact poised to hit state budgets next year.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        