-- U.S. Senate Democrats Seek to Force a Vote on New Campaign Finance Rules
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-07-27T12:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/u-s-senate-democrats-seek-to-force-a-vote-on-new-campaign-finance-rules.html

          
          
             U.S. Senate Democrats today will try
to force a vote on campaign finance disclosure rules after
President  Barack Obama  urged Republicans to stop blocking the
measure.  
 Senate Democratic leaders scheduled a vote today at 2:45
p.m. Washington time on whether to consider the issue. Democrats
need at least one Republican vote to end debate on the bill and
then vote on it.  
 Yesterday at the White House, Obama appealed to Republicans
to allow a vote, saying that the bill is “about how much
influence special interests should have over our democracy.”  
 The bill would require corporations and unions to disclose
their spending on political advertising, including donations to
third-party groups that run advertisements, such as the  U.S.
Chamber of Commerce . Obama targeted so-called third-party ads
because, he said, “all too often, no one will actually know
who’s behind those ads.”  
 Political advocacy groups “are already forming and
building war chests for tens of millions of dollars to influence
the fall elections,” Obama said.  
 The legislation was introduced by Senate Democrats, led by
Rules Committee Chairman  Charles Schumer  of New York, in
response to a U.S. Supreme Court decision in January that
overturned a decades-old ban on companies using general-treasury
money to run campaign ads supporting or opposing a candidate.  
 The House passed a similar version, 219-206, last month,
with just two Republican votes.  
 Silencing Critics  
 Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky said
the legislation is designed to benefit Democrats.  
 The measure “seeks to protect unpopular Democrat
politicians by silencing their critics and exempting their
campaign supporters from an all-out attack on the First
Amendment,” McConnell said in a statement yesterday.  
 Corporations and unions seeking to support candidates had
been required to spend through regulated political action
committees. Companies are still banned from contributing
directly to candidates.  
 The bill would affect all political advertising, including
so-called issue ads that are designed to elect particular
candidates without directly asking voters to support or oppose
them.  
 Business trade groups such as the Chamber of Commerce would
be required for the first time to reveal the companies that fund
their political ads. Union-funded organizations running ads for
or against candidates also would have to disclose their donors.  
 The measure would bar such political spending by companies
with more than $10 million in government contracts and
institutions that haven’t repaid money from the Troubled Asset
Relief Program passed in 2008.  
 Foreign-owned corporations also would be barred from
political spending, though the ban wouldn’t apply to their U.S.
subsidies’ political action committees.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Senator Charles Schumer Campaign Finance Disclosure Rules  
                       
                         
                           Alex Wong/Getty Images 
                         
                         Senator Charles Schumer, Rules Committee Chairman, introduced legislation on campaign finance disclosure rules. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Senator Charles Schumer, Rules Committee Chairman, introduced legislation on campaign finance disclosure rules. Photographer: Alex Wong/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
