-- UAL to Keep Continental Finance Chief After Merger as CEO Shapes New Team
-- Mary Jane Credeur
-- 2010-07-27T20:16:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/ual-to-keep-continental-finance-chief-after-merger-as-ceo-shapes-new-team.html

          
          
             United Airlines  will keep
 Continental Airlines Inc . Chief Financial Officer  Zane Rowe  in
his post when the two carriers merge, while United CFO  Kathryn Mikells  and President  John Tague  will leave.  
 The moves shaped the senior leadership team of Continental
Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Smisek , who will remain CEO of the
combined company. United Chief Administrative Officer  Pete McDonald  will be chief operating officer, while CEO  Glenn Tilton 
becomes non-executive chairman.  
 Other United executives who will depart include  Rosemary Moore , senior vice president of government affairs, and  Graham Atkinson , president of the Mileage Plus frequent-flier program,
parent UAL Corp. said today in a statement.  
 “This is a reflection of a high-class problem, which is a
deep bench on both sides,” said  Hunter Keay , an analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore.  
 Rowe, 39, joined Houston-based Continental in 1993 and
previously worked in the network strategy department before
being named CFO in 2008. Continental’s  Jim Compton  will stay on
as chief marketing officer;  Nene Foxhall  will continue
overseeing communications and government affairs; and  Mike Bonds 
will run human resources and labor relations, the carriers said.  
 United’s  Tom Sabatino  will be general counsel, while  Jeff Foland  will lead the combined loyalty program at the merged
airline, which retains the United name and Chicago headquarters.  
 Mikells, Tague  
 Mikells, 44, has been with United since 1994, and was named
CFO in 2008 when record oil prices and the recession forced
airlines to cut jobs and park planes to lower costs.  
 She helped the carrier raise cash and improve its fuel
hedging program, and earlier this year she led the merger talks
with Continental, which were completed in three weeks.  
 Tague, 48, joined United in 2003 during its Chapter 11
bankruptcy reorganization. He helped increase revenue by $1.2
billion and reverse the airline’s on-time arrival rate from
worst to first among the so-called legacy airlines, and he led
United’s efforts to charge for services such as checked luggage.  
 “United’s liquidity turnaround occurred on Kathryn’s
watch, and John is well respected on Wall Street for United’s
revenue outperformance and unbundling initiatives,” Keay said.
“That said, Continental has been on more firm financial footing
on a consistent basis throughout the revenue crisis and that
reflects very well on Zane and his team.”  
 Keay rates  UAL  and  Continental  as “buy.”  UAL  dropped 54
cents, or 2.2 percent, to $23.71 at 4 p.m. in New York in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading, while  Continental  fell 44 cents, or 1.7
percent, to $25.21 on the New York Stock Exchange.  
 UAL and Continental agreed to merge in May in an all-stock
deal, a tie-up that will surpass  Delta Air Lines Inc.  as the
world’s largest carrier.  
 Separately, the European Commission gave United and
Continental an unconditional clearance on the merger, and said
the combination wouldn’t raise any specific competition concerns
in Europe or the trans-Atlantic market. The carriers say they
expect to complete their tie-up by year’s end.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        