-- UBS Profit Beats Estimates on Investment Bank Rebound
-- Elena Logutenkova
-- 2010-07-27T09:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/ubs-posts-1-9-billion-profit-beats-estimates-as-securities-unit-improves.html

          
          
             UBS AG , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
reported a third consecutive quarterly profit, beating analysts’
estimates on higher-than-expected trading revenue.  
 UBS gained the most in 11 weeks in Zurich trading after
reporting net income of 2.01 billion Swiss francs ($1.91
billion), following a net loss of 1.4 billion francs a year
earlier. That beat the 1.12 billion-franc median estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 UBS’s investment bank reported a smaller decline in trading
revenue than the average of its competitors from the first
quarter as the European sovereign debt crisis made clients
reluctant to trade. Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  said
he’s “confident” about the future after withdrawals from UBS’s
wealth management units slowed.  
 “These results imply that UBS has, contrary to our thesis,
managed to turn around the investment bank,” said  Dirk Hoffmann-Becking , a London-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein, who has an “underperform” rating on UBS. “The
performance appears materially more robust than its peers.”  
 UBS rose as much as 9.9 percent, the biggest intraday gain
since May 10, and traded 9.8 percent higher at 17.24 francs as
of 11:52 a.m. in Zurich. That made the stock the best performer
on the 54-company Bloomberg  Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index , which advanced 3.6 percent.  
 Pretax profit at the investment bank rebounded to 1.31
billion francs after a 1.85 billion-franc loss a year ago,
beating estimates for earnings of 759 million francs.  
 ‘Right Strategy’  
 The unit generated 3.07 billion francs from trading stocks,
currencies, bonds and commodities in the second quarter. The 10
percent decline from the first three months of the year compares
with the average 34 percent drop reported by Zurich-based Credit
Suisse Group AG,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , Citigroup Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley of New York, as well as
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of  America Corp.   
 “Our portfolio of businesses is increasingly able to
generate competitive returns in a variety of market conditions,
and our risk management framework has proven robust,” Gruebel
said in the statement. “I remain confident in our future and I
firmly believe that we have the right strategy in place.”  
 The bank still has “a lot of catching up to do” in
equities trading after its market share was eroded in the credit
crisis, Gruebel told analysts and reporters in Zurich. In fixed-
income trading, a bank the size of UBS should be posting
quarterly revenue of 4 billion francs, he said.  
 Withdrawals Slow  
 Withdrawals from UBS’s wealth management units slowed to
8.1 billion francs in the second quarter from 15.4 billion
francs in the first. Rich clients pulled a net 243.5 billion
francs in the two years through March following UBS’s credit-
crisis losses, pressure on Swiss banking secrecy and departing
client advisers.  
 The wealth management and Swiss bank division reported a 21
percent increase in pretax profit to 1.13 billion francs,
beating analysts’ estimates for 1.08 billion francs, while
wealth management Americas had a pretax loss of 67 million
francs on restructuring charges of 146 million francs.  
 UBS is “about to see the turning point” in client-fund
flows in the Americas, Chief Financial Officer  John Cryan  told
journalists on a conference call. Outflows from the wealth
management and Swiss bank division related mainly to cross-
border assets booked in Switzerland, he said.  
 Stress Tests  
 UBS and its largest Swiss rival, Credit Suisse, passed
stress tests that included a global recession, a slump in
financial markets and “very sharp shocks” in some European
states, the country’s financial regulator said July 23. The
banks maintained tier 1 capital ratios in excess of 8 percent in
the face of “particularly severe” scenarios, the regulator
said.  
 Credit Suisse last week beat analysts’ expectations with a
second-quarter profit of 1.59 billion francs thanks to a tax
credit and gains on the company’s own debt. The bank attracted
13.8 billion francs in net new funds at its wealth management
business, while the securities unit reported a 53 percent drop
in pretax profit as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis deterred
clients from trading.  
 The crisis is creating “more headwinds” for UBS’s bid to
reverse withdrawals this year as clients are uncertain about
what to do with their money,  Juerg Zeltner , head of wealth
management, said in an interview this month.  
 “We’re still hopeful that we can turn the situation around
by the end of the year,” Cryan said today. “But it’s not
entirely in our control.”  
 Hiring ‘Good People’  
 The bank is “relieved” the  U.S. cross-border case , in
which UBS was accused of helping clients evade taxes, is drawing
to a close, Zeltner said, adding that this will help the company
hire more client advisers after 1,149 departures in 2009.  
 UBS aims to start making progress over the next six months
toward its target of having a total of 4,700 advisers, he said.
The number fell by 26 to 4,112 during the second quarter.  
 The price of hiring “good people” is rising around the
world, Gruebel said. The bank doesn’t see “a squeeze” in Asia
as a result of competitors trying to expand there, he said.  
 The gross margin at the wealth management and Swiss bank
division, or the amount of revenue the bank earns on assets
under management, increased to 95 basis points in the second
quarter from 93 basis points in the previous three months. A
basis point is one hundredth of a percentage point. UBS
reiterated its goal of boosting margins to more than 100 basis
points over the next three to five years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Oswald Gruebel, chief executive officer of UBS AG, gestures while speaking at the bank's news conference in Zurich. Photographer: Reto Andreoli/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Stubbs, head of European and U.K. equity strategy at Citigroup Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the results of the stress tests for European banks and his investment strategy.
     Stubbs, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for the global economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
