-- European Shares Rise on Higher Profits at UBS, Deutsche Bank
-- Jann Bettinga
-- 2010-07-27T09:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/ubs-deutsche-bank-spark-stock-rally-after-better-than-estimated-earnings.html

          
          
             UBS AG , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
and Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s largest, reported second-quarter
profits that surpassed analysts’ estimates, driving European
financial shares higher.  
 UBS posted net income of 2.01 billion Swiss francs ($1.91
billion), its third straight profit, on a rebound at the
investment bank. Deutsche Bank said earnings rose 6.4 percent
from a year ago to 1.16 billion euros ($1.51 billion), buoyed by
retail and transaction banking.  
 Oswald Gruebel , the chief executive officer of UBS, is
rebuilding the investment bank following record losses during
the credit crunch. The unit  earned  1.31 billion francs in the
quarter, above analysts’ 759 million-franc estimate. At Deutsche
Bank, the so-called stable businesses of global transaction
banking, consumer lending and asset and wealth management posted
their highest combined pretax profit in two years.  
 “It appears the European banks have done slightly better
than their U.S. counterparts,” said  Henk Potts , who helps
oversee about $235 billion at Barclays Stockbrokers Ltd. in
London. Even so, the “underlying outlook remains one of
caution,” he said.  
 UBS  rose  as much as 9.9 percent, the biggest gain since
April 14, and traded 9.8 percent higher at 17.23 francs by 11:43
a.m. in Zurich.  Deutsche Bank  climbed 3.1 percent to 51.94 euros
in Frankfurt trading. The 54-company Bloomberg  Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index  advanced 3.5 percent.  
 Smaller Trading Decline  
 The investment bank of UBS reported a smaller decline in
trading revenue from the first quarter than the average of its
competitors as the European sovereign debt crisis made clients
reluctant to trade.  
 The unit generated 3.07 billion francs from trading stocks,
currencies, bonds and commodities in the second quarter. The 10
percent decline from the first three months of the year compares
with the average 34 percent drop reported by Credit Suisse Group
AG,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Morgan Stanley and  Bank of America Corp.   
 “These results imply that UBS has, contrary to our thesis,
managed to turn around the investment bank,” said  Dirk Hoffmann-Becking , a London-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein, who has an “underperform” rating on UBS. “The
performance appears materially more robust than its peers.”  
 Withdrawals from UBS’s wealth management units slowed to
8.1 billion francs in the second quarter from 15.4 billion
francs in the first. Rich clients pulled a net 243.5 billion
francs in the two years through March following UBS’s credit-
crisis losses, pressure on Swiss banking secrecy and departing
client advisers.  
 ‘Right Strategy’  
 “Our portfolio of businesses is increasingly able to
generate competitive returns in a variety of market conditions,
and our risk management framework has proven robust,” Gruebel,
67, said in the statement. “I remain confident in our future
and I firmly believe that we have the right strategy in place.”  
 The wealth management and Swiss bank division reported a 21
percent increase in pretax profit to 1.13 billion francs,
beating analysts’ estimates for 1.08 billion francs, while
wealth management Americas had a pretax loss of 67 million
francs on restructuring charges of 146 million francs.  
 UBS is “about to see the turning point” in client-fund
flows in the Americas, Chief Financial Officer  John Cryan  told
journalists on a conference call. Outflows from the wealth
management and Swiss bank division related mainly to cross-
border assets booked in Switzerland, he said.  
 ‘Pleasant Progress’  
 At Deutsche Bank, sales and trading at the investment bank,
run by  Anshu Jain , fell 15 percent from a year earlier and 42
percent from the first quarter. Earnings from Deutsche Bank’s
retail unit rose more than four-fold to 233 million euros, the
most since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008, as loan losses shrank. Pretax profit from transaction
banking more than doubled to 478 million euros, while asset and
wealth management returned to a profit.  
 “The stable businesses made very pleasant progress,” said
 Manfred Jakob , an analyst at SEB AG in Frankfurt.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , 62, has been
seeking to reduce dependence on the investment bank by making
acquisitions, including commercial banking operations of ABN
Amro, private bank Sal. Oppenheim Group, and a stake in  Deutsche
Postbank AG . The investment-banking unit generated more than 90
percent of overall earnings in the first quarter.  
 Pretax profit at the division fell 5.3 percent to 779
million euros in the second quarter from a year earlier and 70
percent from the previous three months. Earnings missed the 1.12
billion-euro estimate of analysts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net 
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
 Jann Bettinga  in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     UBS AG chief executive officer Oswald Gruebel. Photographer: Reto Andreoli/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
