-- Turkish Central Bank Cuts Inflation Forecast, Delays Increase in Key Rate
-- Steve Bryant
-- 2010-07-27T13:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/turkish-central-bank-cuts-inflation-forecast-delays-increase-in-key-rate.html

          
          
             Turkey’s central bank lowered its
forecast for year-end inflation to 7.5 percent and said it will
delay increases to the  benchmark  interest rate until next year.  
 Falling food and services prices, combined with decreasing
demand for Turkish exports in Europe, persuaded the bank to
revise its forecast from the 8.4 percent predicted in April,
Central Bank Governor  Durmus Yilmaz  said at a news conference in
Ankara today to release the bank’s quarterly inflation report.  
 The bank’s forecasts are based on the assumption “that
policy rates are kept at current levels and that there is a
limited rise in 2011,” he said. Conditions have become more
supportive of slowing inflation since the last report in April,
when the bank predicted rate increases starting in the last
three months of this year, he said.  
 Yilmaz placed “greater emphasis on downside risks to the
global economic recovery, with specific reference to the euro
zone,”  Ilker Domac , an economist for Citigroup Inc. in
Istanbul, wrote in a report. “We now expect the bank to keep
rates on hold at 7.0 percent until the end of the first half of
2011, which will be followed by a 150 basis point rate hike in
the second half, bringing the policy rate to 8.5 percent by the
end of 2011.”  
 Yields on benchmark two-year lira debt fell 2 basis points,
or 0.02 percentage points, to 8.18 percent in Istanbul at 3:37
p.m. The lira was little changed at 1.5120 per dollar.  
 Shares Increase  
 The main  ISE National 100  share index climbed 1.9 percent
to 60,662.13 at 2:25 p.m. in Istanbul, the highest level since
at least January 1990, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Lenders Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS and  Akbank TAS  led gains.  
 “Lower inflation means the central bank won’t raise
interest rates, and banks will benefit from it this year,” said
 Altug Dag , a trader at EFG Istanbul Securities. “Improved bank
earnings expectations are also adding to gains.”  
 Inflation  will probably end next year at 5.3 percent
compared with a previous forecast of 5.4 percent, Yilmaz said.
The rate was 8.4 percent in June. Inflation will probably slow
this month and accelerate in August, he said.  
 Yilmaz ended a 13-month series of rate cuts in December
that slashed the benchmark by a total of 10.25 percentage
points. The rate is 7 percent and the bank next meets to discuss
monetary policy on Aug. 19.  
 He said the passage by the government of a fiscal rule
limiting deficits would be important for keeping inflation in
single digits.  
 The legislation “is necessary for Turkey and the
government must keep its word on the legislative process,” he
told reporters after his speech.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ali Berat Meric  in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        