-- Uruguay Bank Chief Rules Out Risk of Inflation Surge as Economy Rebounds
-- Lucia Baldomir
-- 2010-07-27T21:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/uruguay-bank-chief-rules-out-risk-of-inflation-surge-as-economy-rebounds.html

          
          
             Uruguay’s central bank is
“comfortable” with the country’s current rate of  inflation  and
sees no reason to fear any sharp increase in prices, bank
President  Mario Bergara  said.  
 “We don’t see anything that represents an imminent risk of
a jump in inflation,” Bergara said in an interview today at his
office in Montevideo.  
 The bank’s three-member policy committee held its  overnight
lending rate  at 6.25 percent at its last meeting on June 24,
saying in a statement that rising commodity prices and increased
domestic demand may begin to pressure prices in the $34 billion
agriculture-based economy.  
 Last month, year-on-year inflation slowed to 6.19 percent,
the first time it has been within the central bank’s target of 3
percent to 7 percent since March. Consumer prices climbed 0.28
percent from May as food and beverage prices fell, according to
the national statistics agency.  
 “Although inflation is being contained, there is a tough
core that remains high,” said  Mariana Ferreira , an economist at
CPA Ferrere research company in Montevideo. Ferreira forecasts
price increases will accelerate to 7.4 percent by year end.  
 Fitch Ratings today upgraded Uruguay’s long-term foreign
currency Issuer Default Rating to BB from BB-, saying the
economy showed “increased resilience to external shocks.” The
move puts the country in the same category as Costa Rica and the
Philippines.  
 “In spite of the high level of financial dollarization,
the country did not face balance of payment pressures or
financial instability during the stress test of the global
financial crisis,” Fitch said in a statement.  
 Vigorous Growth  
 The peso was fell 0.6 percent to 21.07 per dollar today.
The currency has fallen 6.9 percent this year, the worst
performance among seven major Latin American currencies.  
 Uruguay’s economy will expand “vigorously” this year,
returning to the rates at which it grew before the crisis,
Bergara said, without giving a forecast. Fitch said the economy
will expand 5.5 percent this year.  
 The economy grew 8.9 percent in the first three months of
this year from the same quarter of 2009. In the whole of 2009,
the economy expanded 2.9 percent, its seventh straight year of
growth, central bank data show.  
 “There’s margin for Uruguay to keep growing, but it has to
improve infrastructure in ports and highways to prevent possible
bottlenecks in the future,” Ferreira said.  
 The bank’s overnight rate is suitable given the pace of
inflation, Bergara said. Most other Latin American countries,
except Brazil, have lower rates because they have slower
inflation, he said.  
 The bank board will hold its next meeting on Sept. 23.  
 “The benchmark rate in Uruguay is not out of line with
what other countries in Latin America are doing,” Bergara said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lucia Baldomir  in Montevideo at 
 lbaldomir@bloomberg.net ;
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Uruguay's Economy deputy secretary Mario Bergara. Photographer: Antonio Scorza/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
