-- Home Vacancies Rise as U.S. Ownership Falls to Lowest in Decade
-- Kathleen M. Howley
-- 2010-07-27T17:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/vacancies-climb-as-u-s-home-ownership-falls-to-lowest-level-in-a-decade.html

          
          
             About 18.9 million homes in the U.S.
stood empty during the second quarter as surging foreclosures
helped push ownership to the lowest level in a decade.  
 The number of vacant properties, including foreclosures,
residences for sale and vacation homes, rose from 18.6 million
in the year-earlier quarter, the U.S. Census Bureau said in a
report today. The ownership rate, meaning households that own
their own residence, was 66.9 percent, the lowest since 1999.  
 Lenders are accelerating foreclosures as borrowers fall
behind in mortgage payments after the worst housing crash since
the Great Depression. A record 269,962 U.S. homes were seized in
the second quarter, according to RealtyTrac Inc. Foreclosures
probably will top 1 million this year, the Irvine, California-
based data company said in a July 15 report.  
 “There are a lot of people losing their homes and either
moving in with family or renting places to live,” said  Patrick Newport , an economist with IHS Global Insight in Lexington,
Massachusetts. “Foreclosures are still going up.”  
 The share of homes empty and for sale, known as the vacancy
rate, was 2.5 percent, matching the year-earlier period and down
from 2.6 percent in the first quarter, the Census Bureau said.
The homeownership rate fell from 67.1 percent in the first
quarter, the third straight decline. The rate reached a record
high of 69.2 percent in the second and fourth quarters of 2004.  
 Empty Homes  
 Foreclosures  are included in a part of the Census Bureau
report that also tracks vacant properties under renovation or
tied up in legal proceedings. There were 3.7 million such empty
homes in the second quarter, up from 3.5 million in the year
earlier period, the report said.  
 Bank seizures could also be counted as vacant properties
for sale or  rent , or as owner-occupied homes if lenders haven’t
yet evicted previous owners, the federal agency said. There were
2 million empty homes for sale in the second quarter, up from
1.9 million a year earlier.  
 A record 4.6 percent of U.S. mortgages were in foreclosure
in the first three months of 2010, according to a May 19 report
by the Mortgage Bankers Association. The combined share of
foreclosures and home loan  delinquencies  was 14 percent, or
about one in every seven U.S. mortgages.  
 Demand for homes has slumped since the April expiration of
a government tax credit for buyers. The rate of new-home sales
last month was the second-lowest on record, behind May, the
Commerce Department reported yesterday. Sales of  previously
owned homes  fell 5.1 percent in June, the National Association
of Realtors said last week.  
 Sales Gain  
 The tax benefit, worth as much as $8,000, spurred a 4.9
percent rise in sales last year, the first increase since 2005,
according to the Chicago-based National Association of Realtors.  
 U.S. home  prices  retreated 13 percent in 2009 to a median
of $172,500, following a 9.5 percent drop in 2008, according to
the Realtors’ association. This year, prices may rise 0.8
percent, the first gain since 2006, according to a forecast on
the trade group’s Web site.  
 The U.S. median home price tumbled 29 percent to an eight-
year low of $164,600 in February, according to the Realtors. The
median had reached a record high of $230,300 in July 2006.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kathleen M. Howley  in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A for sale sign is posted in the front yard of a vacant new home in Raleigh, North Carolina. Photographer: Jim R. Bounds/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Karl Case, an economics professor at Wellesley College and co-creator of the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index, discusses the U.S. housing market.
     The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values increased 4.6 percent in May from the same month a year ago, marking the biggest year-over-year gain since August 2006, the group said today in New York. Case talks with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt on Bloomberg Radio's "Bloomberg Surveillance" (This report is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
