-- Valero CEO Says Refining Margins May Not Be Sustainable in Third Quarter
-- Allison Bennett
-- 2010-07-27T20:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/valero-ceo-says-refining-margins-may-not-be-sustainable-in-third-quarter.html

          
          
             Valero Energy Corp. , the largest
U.S. refiner, said future margins may be narrowed after second-
quarter profit beat analysts’ estimates.  
 The company reported its first profit in five quarters
today as refining margins almost doubled. Net income for the
second quarter was $583 million, or $1.04 a share, compared with
a loss of $254 million, or 48 cents, a year earlier, San
Antonio-based Valero said in a statement.  
 “The issue is sustainability, as the results are clearly
stronger than anybody would have wildly expected but they’re so
far out of line on the upside that it raises all types of
questions,” said  Mark Gilman , an analyst at Benchmark Co. in
New York who rates the stock “hold” and doesn’t own any.  
 In particular, Gilman said, the company “talked about the
fact that margins in the second half are going to be, based on
third quarter to date, lower.”  
 Valero  fell  17 cents, or 1 percent, to $17.39 at 4:15 p.m.
in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock,
which had risen as much as 3.4 percent today, has 9 buy, 13 hold
and two sell ratings from  analysts .  
 The company credited the increase in its earnings to wider
margins for diesel and “secondary products” its refineries
make, like petrochemicals and asphalt. Valero has plants that
can refine heavier and sour oil, which cost less than benchmark
crude.  
 “So far in the third quarter, benchmark margins have
moderated versus the second quarter of 2010 in most of our
regions,” Chief Executive Officer  Bill Klesse  said during an
investor conference call today.  
 Excluding a gain from the sale of a Delaware refinery,
profit was 93 cents a share, 21 cents higher than the average of
16 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 What’s Coming  
 “This is not an outlook,” said  Fadel Gheit , an analyst
for Oppenheimer & Co. in New York who rates the shares “market
perform.” “Their strength is behind them, not what’s coming.”  
 The refining business reported earning $921 million
compared with a loss of $143 million for the same period a year
ago. Valero’s average per-barrel margin rose to $9.39 from $4.74
last year. Operating income from refining in the Gulf Coast
region was $650 million, compared with an $81 million loss last
year.  
 Klesse said the company has seen the margin between Gulf
Coast ultra-low-sulfur diesel and West Texas Intermediate oil
decline 22 percent to $9.51 a barrel from $12.14 in the second
quarter.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        