-- Virgin Blue, Tiger Seek to Lure Business Flyers From Qantas
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2010-07-28T08:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/virgin-blue-tiger-seek-to-lure-australian-business-flyers-from-qantas.html

          
          
             Qantas Airways Ltd.  is revamping
its business class services to beat back efforts by Virgin
Blue Holdings Ltd. to lure away corporate travelers and as
rival  Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd.  attracts budget fliers.  
 Qantas, which controls 90 percent of Australia’s market
for business fliers, will refurbish airport lounges, food
menus and business-class cabins, Chief Executive Officer  Alan Joyce  said. The airline is also implementing technology to
make luggage tracking, check in and avoiding queues easier.  
 “It’s about raising the bar for what business travelers
can expect,” Joyce, 44, said today in an interview at a
conference in Sydney. “This isn’t a defensive strategy, it’s
about setting the pace to keep our customers.”  
 Virgin Blue may overhaul premium services to help double
its share of Australia’s domestic corporate travel market
from 10 percent. The carrier is targeting business flyers as
competition from low-cost airline Tiger and Qantas’ budget
unit Jetstar crimps leisure fares.  
 “We are chasing a share of the lucrative business
market,” Liz Savage, Virgin Blue’s head of commercial
activities, said yesterday. She didn’t elaborate on the
Brisbane-based company’s plans.  
 Qantas  shares  rose 0.4 percent to A$2.48 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of trading in Sydney, paring this year’s decline to 17
percent. Brisbane-based Virgin Blue climbed 4.8 percent to
32.5 Australian cents.  
 Fares Tumble  
 Australian air fares have tumbled since Singapore
Airlines Ltd.-backed Tiger Air began flights in the country
in 2007, with  discount fares  falling more than a third,
according to a government-run index. The budget carrier is
now aiming to lure business travelers with low fares, as it
shuns perks including frequent-flier programs and business
lounges.  
 “Customers looking for value will come to us,”
 Crawford Rix , Tiger’s Australian head, said in an interview
yesterday. Business lounges are “financial black holes with
mood lighting,” he said.  
 The carrier has had limited impact in the corporate
market because of a greater focus on leisure travel. In May,
it wasn’t included among a list of domestic airlines approved
for use by politicians, advisers and bureaucrats in a shakeup
of government travel after it sat out of the tender process.
Qantas, Jetstar and Virgin Blue were included in the list.  
 Low Cost  
 Tiger has helped drive down fares by having the lowest
costs in the market, according to Citigroup Inc. Excluding
fuel, it costs Tiger 2.75 Australian cents to fly each seat a
kilometer, compared with 5 cents for Jetstar, 5.75 cents at
the Qantas-brand carrier and 6.25 cents at Virgin Blue,
Citigroup analysts including  Shavarsh Bedrossian  said in a
July 16 note.  
 Tiger also pares tickets prices by charging extra for
food, airport check-in and reserved seating, which helps it
generate 19 percent of revenue from “ancillary services,”
or non-ticket sources. That’s the highest proportion in
Australia and the fifth-highest worldwide, the  company  said
this week, citing data from consultants IdeaWorks.  
 To boost sales further, the carrier may consider
charging passengers to use on-board toilets, Rix said. It may
also install “vertical seating,” where passengers stand up,
so that it can fit more people into each plane.  
 “Nobody has developed the right system yet but we will
consider it when they do,” Rix said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Sydney 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Alan Joyce, chief executive officer of Qantas Airways Ltd., speaks in Sydney. Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
