-- Visteon Suppliers Urged to Vote Down Bankruptcy Exit, Seek More Money
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-07-27T21:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/visteon-suppliers-urged-to-vote-down-bankruptcy-exit-seek-more-money.html

          
          
             Visteon Corp. ’s suppliers are being
asked to vote down the car-parts maker’s plan to exit bankruptcy
in order to win more money.  
 In a letter to Visteon’s suppliers and other unsecured
creditors, Fulcrum Credit Partners LLC said if the bankruptcy
exit plan fails, the company may be forced to negotiate a higher
repayment.  
 Suppliers are being offered 50 percent of what they are
owed. Fulcrum, which bought the right to collect some supplier
debt, claims Visteon is paying a higher return to bondholders in
violation of a bankruptcy rule that requires similar debts to be
treated the same.  
 “It is a travesty that the plan forces our class to give
up more than $80 million of value,” Fulcrum’s Managing
Principal  Matthew Hamilton  said in the July 19 letter. The
letter was provided to Bloomberg News by one of Visteon’s
suppliers and verified by Fulcrum.  
 Visteon, based in Van Buren Township, Michigan, was spun
off from  Ford Motor Co.  in 2000. It filed for bankruptcy last
year, citing a drop in auto sales that hurt the company’s
ability to pay its debt.  
 Votes on the plan are due July 30. U.S. Bankruptcy Court
Judge  Christopher S. Sontchi  in Wilmington, Delaware, will take
the tally into consideration when he decides whether to approve
Visteon’s reorganization.  
 Creditors Divided  
 Visteon’s reorganization proposal has divided creditors
owed at least $2.8 billion. Bondholders who are sponsoring the
plan would own 95 percent of Visteon, with current shareholders
getting the rest. General unsecured creditors, including the
suppliers, would be paid about half what they are owed,
according to court records.  
 The official committee representing suppliers and other
unsecured creditors supports Visteon’s plan. Three of the
committee members are suppliers who are getting special
treatment, Hamilton said in an interview today.  
 “These guys are recommending that this plan go through and
they are getting preferential treatment,” he said.  
 Visteon said in court filings that Nissan Trading Corp.,
Siemens Product Lifestyle Management Software Inc. and Freescale
Semiconductor will have their contracts continued on the same
terms as before its bankruptcy. The companies, or their
affiliates, are also receiving so-called cure payments to bring
the contracts current, according to court documents.  
 Company Payments  
 Visteon has agreed to let the three companies keep any
payments they may have received in the 90 days before the parts
maker filed bankruptcy, Hamilton said. Under the U.S. Bankruptcy
code, Visteon has the option of asking a judge to force the
return of those payments.  
 Robert Stark, an attorney for the committee, and Visteon
lawyer  Marc Kieselstein  didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment.  
 Gary Seitz, an attorney for a supplier, said creditors’
push for a recovery of more than 50 percent shows that Visteon’s
reorganization is a success.  
 “The most unusual thing about Visteon is the fact that
things have really improved since they have been reorganizing,”
Seitz, who represents Hua Wei Surface Decorating Technologies
(Shanghai) Co. Ltd. said in an interview.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        