-- LVMH May Rise in Paris After Net Jumps 53%, Beating Estimates
-- Andrew Roberts
-- 2010-07-28T07:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/lvmh-may-rise-in-paris-after-first-half-profit-jumps-53-beats-estimates.html

          
          
             LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA ,
the world’s largest maker of luxury goods, rose in Paris trading
after reporting a 53 percent surge in first-half profit that
beat analysts’ estimates.  
 The shares advanced as much as 3.3 percent to 95.30 euros
as of 9:31 a.m. in Paris.  Net income  rose to 1.05 billion euros
($1.36 billion), the Paris-based company said yesterday in a
statement after the market closed. The average  estimate  of 10
analysts compiled by Bloomberg was 956.2 million euros.  
 “The performance across all divisions at LVMH further
confirms that the recovery in luxury -- versus an extremely
difficult 2009 -- continues to gain momentum,” said  Luca Solca ,
an analyst at Sanford Bernstein, in a report. LVMH’s results
were “impressive,” he added.  
 Demand for luxury goods is returning as Chinese shoppers
buy more high-end clothing and accessories and U.S. and European
retailers replenish inventories after the recession.  Hermes
International SCA , the French maker of luxury handbags and silk
scarves, said last week that revenue may grow as much as 12
percent this year, excluding currency swings.  
 LVMH is “fairly confident” on the company’s performance
in the second half, Chief Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault  said
yesterday at a presentation in Paris. The sales trend in July
matches the first six months of the year, he said. Second-
quarter sales advanced 22 percent to 4.63 billion euros, boosted
by favorable currency moves and increased demand for fashion and
leather goods.  
 New Products  
 “In the current recovery from the economic crisis, LVMH
will continue to gain market share thanks to the numerous
product launches planned before the end of the year, to its
 geographic expansion  in promising markets and to its cost
management,” the company said in the statement.  
 LVMH will also build a new leather goods factory in Marsaz,
France, adding 320 new craftsmen, and initiate production at a
new tannery in Belgium. Demand is outstripping supply, Arnault
said. “There’s a waiting list at Louis Vuitton.”  
 First-half revenue increased 16 percent, or 14 percent
excluding currency swings and acquisitions, LVMH said. There is
a “strong increase” in local shoppers at the company’s stores
around the world, Arnault said. “It’s not just tourists.”  
 On a local currency basis, sales gained 18 percent in the
U.S., 21 percent in Asia and 11 percent in Europe. Sales rose 27
percent in China and declined 6 percent in Japan.  
 Louis Vuitton  
 At the fashion and leather-goods unit, LVMH’s largest, sales
climbed 18 percent, led by “double-digit organic revenue
growth” at the Louis Vuitton brand, the company said. So-called
profit from recurring operations increased 28 percent to 1.18
billion euros, the maker of Fendi bags said.  
 Watch and jewelry revenue advanced 28 percent, slowing from
the first-quarter’s 33 percent surge, as restocking effects
faded. Sales of wines and spirits gained 21 percent, while
perfume and cosmetics advanced 12 percent, LVMH said. Revenue at
the selective retailing unit, which includes Sephora and DFS,
rose 14 percent.  
 LVMH will pay an interim dividend of 70 cents a share on
Dec. 2, the company said. LVMH will also use cash to buy back
debt, which was 2.57 billion euros as of June 30, Chief
Financial Officer  Jean-Jacques Guiony  said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Louis Vuitton branded handbag sits on display. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
