-- LVMH Net Income Advances 53% as Sales of Fashion, Leather Goods Accelerate
-- Andrew Roberts
-- 2010-07-27T16:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/lvmh-first-half-net-beats-estimates-on-rising-fashion-accessories-sales.html

          
          
             LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA ,
the world’s largest maker of luxury goods, reported first-half
profit that beat analysts’ estimates as sales of fashion and
leather goods accelerated in the second quarter.  
 Net income  rose 53 percent to 1.05 billion euros ($1.36
billion), the Paris-based company said today in a statement
after the market closed. The average  estimate  of 10 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg was 956.2 million euros. Second-quarter
sales advanced 22 percent to 4.63 billion euros.  
 Demand for luxury goods is returning as Chinese shoppers
buy more high-end clothing and accessories, and U.S. and
European retailers replenish inventories after the recession.
 Hermes International SCA , the French maker of luxury handbags
and silk scarves, said last week that revenue may grow as much
as 12 percent this year, excluding currency swings.  
 “Visibility on results for the sector and particularly for
LVMH should be quite good over the next 12-18 months,” HSBC
analysts  Erwan Rambourg ,  Antoine Belge  and  Sophie Dargnies  wrote
in a July 7 note. Demand for Louis Vuitton luggage and Hennessy
cognac will remain “resilient” and currency fluctuations will
offer a “substantial boost” to margins, the analysts wrote.
They have an “overweight” rating on the stock.  
 LVMH fell 2.77 euros, or 2.9 percent, to 92.26 euros today
in Paris. The  shares  have gained 18 percent this year, giving
the maker of Moet & Chandon champagne and TAG Heuer watches a
market value of 45.2 billion euros.  
 Product Launches  
 “In the current recovery from the economic crisis, LVMH
will continue to gain market share thanks to the numerous
product launches planned before the end of the year, to its
geographic  expansion  in promising markets and to its cost
management,” the company said in the statement.  
 First-half revenue increased 16 percent, or 14 percent
excluding currency swings and acquisitions, LVMH said.  
 On a local currency basis, sales gained 18 percent in the
U.S., 21 percent in Asia and 11 percent in Europe, the company
said at a press conference. Sales rose 27 percent in China.  
 At the fashion and leather-goods unit, the company’s
largest, sales climbed 18 percent, LVMH said. Watch and jewelry
revenue advanced 28 percent, slowing from the first-quarter’s
33 percent surge, as restocking effects faded.  
 Sales of wines and spirits gained 21 percent, while perfume
and cosmetics advanced 12 percent, LVMH said. Revenue at the
selective retailing unit, which includes Sephora and DFS, rose
14 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        