-- Volvo Car Corp. Sues Nippon Unit in U.K. Over Price Fixing of Car Glass
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-07-27T13:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/volvo-car-corp-sues-nippon-unit-in-u-k-over-price-fixing-of-car-glass.html

          
          
             Volvo Car Corp.  sued a  Nippon Sheet
Glass Co.  unit in London over its involvement in a car-glass
price-fixing cartel that ended two years ago with European Union
fines of 1.4 billion euros ($1.82 billion.)  
 The carmaker is seeking “substantial” damages from
Nippon’s  Pilkington Group Ltd.  unit for charging too much for
windshields and other car glass from 1998 to 2003, Volvo’s law
firm Hausfeld & Co. said today in a statement. The lawsuit was
filed July 2 in the High Court in London, records show.  
 “The car-glass cartel was fined at record levels” by the
European Commission “and caused substantial damage to Volvo and
others in the struggling car industry,” Anthony Maton, a lawyer
with Hausfeld in London, said in the statement.  
 The commission in November 2008 fined Pilkington,
 Asahi Glass Co. ,  Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA  and Soliver for
conspiring to fix prices and allocate markets. The companies at
the time controlled about 90 percent of the market for car glass
used in the EU region in new cars and branded replacement glass
for cars, Volvo said in its statement. Pilkington was fined 370
million euros for its role in the cartel.  
 David Roycroft , a spokesman for St. Helens, England-based
Pilkington, didn’t immediately return a call for comment.  
 Under EU law, companies affected by a cartel have a right
to sue for  damages  in their national courts and can cite the
commission’s decision as evidence.  
 Volvo, a Swedish carmaker, is being bought by Zhejiang
Geely Holding Group Co. from Ford Motor Co.  
 The case is Volvo Car Corporation v. Pilkington Group
Limited, HC10C02207, High Court of Justice Chancery Division
(London).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        