-- VTB-Led Group Pays Rate Twice Emerging Average on 1st Public-Private Loan
-- Karen Eeuwens
-- 2010-07-27T13:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/vtb-led-group-pays-rate-twice-emerging-market-average-for-syndicated-loan.html

          
          
             Russia’s Pulkovo airport in St.
Petersburg is financing its expansion at almost twice the
average cost for similar projects in emerging markets through
the country’s first syndicated loan for a public-private
partnership.  
 Banks including  UniCredit SpA  of Milan and Standard Bank
Group Ltd. of Johannesburg are demanding interest of 425 basis
points to 475 basis points more than the euro interbank offered
rate for the 12-year, 200 million euros ($260 million) loan to
Northern Capital Gateway, the group operating Pulkovo, according
to two people with direct knowledge of the deal. Northern
Capital includes Russia’s state-controlled investment bank VTB
Capital.  
 Syndicated project-finance loans in developing markets
during the past year charged average interest of 265 basis
points, or 2.65 percentage points, more than benchmark rates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “The perception of Russia remains less optimistic which
explains the higher pricing,” said Florence Bachelard-Bakal,
operations leader for the European Bank of Reconstruction and
Development in London, which is co-arranging the loan with the
World Bank’s International Finance Corp.  
 No Subsidies  
 The Pulkovo project, a partnership between the VTB-led
group and the government of St. Petersburg, is the first deal of
its kind to obtain financing without the backing of Russia’s
federal government, which is paring infrastructure-spending
plans to reduce the second annual budget deficit since 1999.
Banks are demanding higher interest spreads because they lack
confidence in Russian laws governing the project, said  Laura Brank , a partner at law firm Dechert LLP in Moscow.  
 The group managing the 1.2 billion-euro Pulkovo project got
more than 700 million euros of its financing from long-term debt
with no government grants or subsidies, according to  VTB
Capital .  
 “It was crucial for us to prove that infrastructure
projects in Russia can be financed without government support,”
 Oleg Pankratov , co-head of global banking at VTB Capital, said
in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News. “We
are certain that the success of the Pulkovo project will pave
the way for commercial long term debt financing for other
infrastructure projects in Russia.”  
 The syndicate of eight banks providing the 200 million-euro
loan, which also includes Stockholm-based  Nordea Bank AB , will
get a commitment fee of 150 basis points and upfront fees of 225
to 280, depending on the amount they agreed to lend, said one of
the people, who declined to be identified because terms are
private.  
 Country Risk  
 The project is the first public-private partnership in
Russia to attract funding from international commercial banks,
according to the EBRD.  
 “There is a country-specific risk premium involved,” said
Damian Secen, head of Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent
States for Macquarie Capital in Moscow. At the same time, “it’s
a very positive deal, these are very credible lenders and some
are newcomers to this market,” he said.  
 The ruble strengthened 0.5 percent to 30.1950 against the
dollar by the 5 p.m. close in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards,
or NDFs, which provide a guide to expectations of currency
movements as they allow foreign investors and companies to fix
the exchange rate at a specific level in the future, showed the
ruble weakening to 30.4213 per dollar in three months.  
 CDS, Ruble  
 The extra yield investors demand to own the Russian
government’s foreign-currency debt rather than U.S. Treasuries
fell nine basis points to 225 today and is up 37 basis points
this year. The spread on Russian bonds compares with 147 for
Mexico and 197 for Brazil, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+
Indexes. The yield gap for Russian bonds is 49 basis points
below the average for  emerging markets , according to JPMorgan.  
 Russia’s foreign-currency debt is rated BBB by Standard &
Poor’s, the same as Mexico and one level above Brazil.  
 The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps fell four basis points to
161 yesterday, according to CMA DataVision prices. Credit-
default swaps, which decline as the perception of
creditworthiness improves, pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The yield on ruble bonds sold by state-controlled gas
producer  OAO Gazprom  is 239 basis points above the same-maturity
Gazprom debt in dollars, down from a yield difference of about
600 a year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The spread
narrowed to as little as 115 on June 14.  
 Budget Deficit  
 Russia’s budget deficit was 5.9 percent of gross domestic
product last year as the economy shrank 7.9 percent, the most
since the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991. Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin , 57, said this month the budget gap may narrow to
5 percent of GDP this year. The Russian economy grew 2.9 percent
in the first quarter from a year earlier.  
 Government spending on transportation in Russia will fall
to 1.9 percent of GDP this year from the “already low level”
of 2.5 percent in 2009, the World Bank said in a  report 
published on June 16.  
 Polish Energy Partners SA, a Warsaw-based renewable energy
developer, raised 151.63 million zloty ($49 million) through one
of its units in June to finance the construction of the
Modlikowice wind-farm project. The company will pay 375 basis
points over the Warsaw interbank rate for the loan due 2026,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Reliance Industries Ltd., India’s largest company by market
value, agreed on July 9 to pay 340 basis points over the London
interbank offered rate for a $500 million loan due 2015 to fund
company projects, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Risk Premium  
 Russia is the world’s 20th riskiest place to do business,
according to Maplecroft, a Bath, England-based risk-management
adviser. The firm’s study of 172 countries ranks respect for the
rule of law, property rights, access to the legal system,
corruption, corporate governance and regulatory frameworks.
India was the 59th riskiest and Poland was ranked 124th.  
 “Commercial banks are scared of the lack of corporate
governance framework,” said Dechert’s Brank. For the Pulkovo
deal, “the involvement of the EBRD and IFC mitigates concern,”
she said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
 Karen Eeuwens  in London 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Russia's prime minister Vladimir Putin. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
