-- Wal-Mart Hires TNK-BP Executive Conroy to Help Lead Its Russian Office
-- Jason Corcoran
-- 2010-07-27T20:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/wal-mart-hires-tnk-bp-executive-avril-conroy-to-help-lead-russian-office.html

          
          
             Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s
biggest retailer, hired an executive from BP Plc’s Russian oil
joint venture to help lead its Moscow office ahead of a possible
expansion into the country.  
 Wal-Mart hired Avril Conroy, formerly of TNK-BP, as part of
the company’s management team, according to  Kevin Gardner , a
spokesman for the retailer. He declined to provide her title or
start date.  
 Wal-Mart, which currently has no stores in Russia, is
examining how to enter the country using acquisitions, according
to international chief  Doug McMillon , who visited at least twice
in the past year. Buying a retail chain would help  Wal-Mart  grow
faster than if it opened its own stores, he said last month.  
 “It’s not too late for Wal-Mart to enter Russia, but if
Wal-Mart wants to be a leading retailer there, they should enter
as soon as possible,”  Milos Ryba , an analyst at consultant
Planet Retail in London, said in a telephone interview. “It
would be stupid to grow organically. It’s so difficult.”  
 Foreign retailers have been slow to expand in Russia since
concepts like supercenters are mainly limited to big cities like
Moscow, where local retailers such as  X5 Retail Group NV  are
popular, Ryba said. Anti-vice research organization Transparency
International ranked Russia 146th in a 2009 survey measuring
perceptions of public-sector corruption in 180 countries.  
 “If Wal-Mart wants to operate in Russia, it has to adapt
itself to how things work,” Ryba said.  
 Conroy worked in the marketing division until a couple of
weeks ago, according to a TNK-BP spokesman. She had been with
the company since 2003.  
 International Sales  
 Stephan Fanderl , who previously headed the Moscow office,
quit last November. The retailer has added 30  employees  in
Russia since it opened an office there in 2008. Wal-Mart gets
about one-quarter of its sales from its international
operations.  
 If Wal-Mart proceeded with a Russian expansion, it would
compete with retailers like Groupe Auchan SA, a French grocer
that operates about 40 superstores there.  Carrefour SA , Europe’s
largest retailer, said last October it would pull out of Russia
after less than a year in the market. U.K. retailer Tesco Plc
has said it isn’t looking to the region, focusing instead on
China and the U.S. for growth.  
 Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville, Arkansas, dropped 17 cents
to $50.96 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares have  declined  4.7 percent this year.  
 BP, whose market value has fallen by about 45 billion
pounds ($70 billion) as it responds to an oil spill triggered by
an explosion this year, today named former TNK-BP executive
 Robert Dudley  to lead its operations. Dudley, the first American
head of London-based BP, ran TNK-BP from 2003 to 2008.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Corcoran  in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        