-- Weight Watchers Adapts Point System to China as It Seeks Growth, CEO Says
-- Alex Sherman
-- 2010-07-27T17:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/weight-watchers-adapts-point-system-to-china-as-it-seeks-growth-ceo-says.html

          
          
             Weight Watchers International Inc. ,
the world’s largest chain of diet centers, said it is adapting
its point-counting system to fit China and take advantage of a
growing middle-class population.  
 Increasing affluence and a lack of nutritional education
make the country ripe for expansion of the New York-based
company’s weight-loss programs, according to Chief Executive
Officer  David Kirchhoff , 43. The company opened its first
Chinese outlet in Shanghai in 2008 and now has five centers
there.  
 “The speed of how quickly the middle class is emerging
lends itself to our program,” Kirchhoff said yesterday in a
telephone interview. China’s middle class may grow to 46.2
percent of households by 2020, from 31.7 percent this year,
London-based research firm  Euromonitor International  said.  
 China will be “a brand new business,” Kirchhoff said.
Weight Watchers needs the boost after first-quarter  profit  fell
to its lowest level since 2004.  
 The company has had to negotiate cultural differences in
its effort to gain brand recognition and respect among Chinese
consumers, Kirchhoff said. Weight Watchers assigns points to
foods based on calories, fat and fiber, and a client gets a
certain amount of points per day.  
 Trays of Food  
 “A typical experience for people when they eat out in
China is the big spinning tray with all the different dishes
around it,” he said. “You might have two spoonfuls of this,
three spoonfuls of that. It’s a different process to keep track
of how much you’re eating. We had to reinvent the program to fit
their lives.”  
 The Chinese version of the program incorporates images to
show how big servings should be, Kirchhoff said. Researchers
spent time in restaurant kitchens throughout China to compile a
list of standard ingredients in many traditional dishes to give
approximate point values, he said.  
 “Nutritional information has not been available for
Chinese consumers, so awareness about what’s in certain foods is
quite a bit lower,” said Kirchhoff. The company spent more than
a year developing a Chinese-food database.  
 The China business is a joint venture with Paris-based
Groupe Danone SA, 51 percent-owned by the weight-loss company.  
 Weight Watchers rose 13 cents to $27.13 at 1:54 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The  shares  had fallen 7.4
percent this year through yesterday. The company is scheduled to
report second-quarter earnings Aug. 5.  
 Weight Watchers hasn’t released revenue or profit from its
China operations. North America accounted for about 65 percent
of the company’s  sales  of $1.4 billion in 2009. The U.K. and
Europe made up about 31 percent.  
 “We’re in the process of identifying the right business
model that will allow us to profit in China,” said Kirchhoff.
“Without knowing exactly what that is, it would be an arbitrary
exercise to forecast profit at this time.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Sherman  in New York 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     David Kirchhoff, president and chief executive officer of Weight Watchers International Inc. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
