-- Yahoo Japan Agrees to Use Google Technology to Widen Lead in Home Market
-- Dina Bass
-- 2010-07-27T20:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/yahoo-japan-agrees-use-google-technology-to-widen-lead-in-home-market.html

          
          
             Yahoo! Japan Corp. , operator of the
nation’s most-visited web portal, will use  Google Inc. ’s
Internet search and advertising technology to replace its
existing system as early as this year.  
 The companies today signed a two-year contract with an
option to renew, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement
that included its fiscal first-quarter earnings.  
 The agreement would mean that more than 80 percent of
Japanese search queries will run through Google, a blow to
Microsoft Corp. The deal frees Yahoo Japan, partly owned by
Sunnyvale, California-based  Yahoo! Inc. , from having to develop
its search technology and may help it in mobile search as
handsets equipped with Google’s Android operating system become
more popular.  
 “If Yahoo Japan started using Google’s search engine and
if its services were then used on Android smartphones, an
agreement may have big implications,” said  Atsuo Takahashi , an
analyst at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. “For Yahoo Japan,
this deal could be quite positive.”  
 The agreement will prevent Microsoft from extending its 10-
year deal with Yahoo to Yahoo Japan. Microsoft, which said it
has less than 2 percent search share in Japan, called the deal
“anticompetitive.” In 2008, Google backed off a search
partnership with Yahoo in the U.S. after U.S. regulators
threatened a challenge.  
 ‘Anticompetitive’ Agreement  
 “This agreement is even more anticompetitive than Google’s
deal with Yahoo in the United States and Canada that the
Department of Justice found to be illegal,” Microsoft General
Counsel  Brad Smith  said in a statement. “The 2008 deal would
have locked up 90 percent of paid search advertising. This deal
gives Google virtually 100 percent of all searches in Japan.”  
 Google consulted with the Japanese competition authority
and “they had no objections to the deal,”  Adam Kovacevich , a
Google spokesman, said in an e-mail.  
 Google will license its ad software to Yahoo Japan, which
will continue to manage its own ad systems and client
relationships, he said. Yahoo Japan will also be able to
customize Google’s search.  
 “This kind of arrangement is commonplace in the business
world and it doesn’t foreclose robust competition,” Kovacevich
said. “Toyota sells its hybrid technology to Ford, even though
they compete against one another in selling cars.”  
 The Japanese Internet company, 35 percent owned by Yahoo
and about 40 percent by Softbank, had more than 52 million users
as of March, according to a Nomura Holdings Inc. report this
month that cited a Nielsen Online survey. Yahoo Japan accounted
for more than 50 percent of the nation’s Internet search market
by queries, the report said. Google has about 31 percent,
according to the report.  
 ‘Step Ahead’  
 “Right now, there are a lot of areas which Microsoft
hasn’t prepared for,” Yahoo Japan President  Masahiro Inoue  said
at a briefing in Tokyo today. “Google is one step ahead in
terms of providing information in Japan.” He didn’t elaborate.  
 Microsoft’s Tokyo-based spokesman, Masaki Iida, said he
couldn’t comment because the matter is between Yahoo Japan and
Google.  
 Yahoo  and Microsoft won regulatory approvals in the U.S.
and Europe in February to integrate their Web-search businesses
and challenge Google. Yahoo plans to use Microsoft’s Bing search
engine on its sites and to complete the integration in the U.S.
by the end of the year.  
 Google Technology  
 Fees for using Google technology will be about the same as
those Yahoo Japan currently pays to Yahoo, Inoue said. Yahoo
Japan used Google’s Web-search system between 2001 and 2004.  
 The Wall Street Journal’s All Things Digital blog reported
earlier today that Yahoo Japan may use Google’s search
technology instead of Microsoft’s.  
 Yahoo Japan net income rose 12.6 percent to 21.7 billion
yen ($248 million) in the three months ended June 30, Yahoo
Japan said. The result is in line with an estimate by  Keiichi Yoneshima , an analyst at Barclays Capital Japan Ltd.  
 Yahoo Japan rose 1.2 percent to close at 35,150 yen on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange, extending its gain to 26 percent this
year. The Topix index has fallen 6.8 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Le  in Tokyo at 
 ale14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Masayoshi Son, president and chief executive officer of SoftBank Corp. and chairman of Yahoo Japan Corp., leaves the podium after speaking during a news conference in Tokyo, Japan. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
