-- Yahoo Japan Says It's Considering Using Google Internet-Search Technology
-- Adam Le
-- 2010-07-27T04:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/yahoo-japan-says-it-s-considering-using-google-internet-search-technology.html

          
          
             Yahoo Japan Corp.  is considering
using Google Inc.’s Internet-search technology to widen its lead
in the world’s second-largest economy.  
 The company hasn’t made a decision, said  Toru Nagano , a
spokesman at Tokyo-based Yahoo Japan, declining to provide
details. The former joint venture between Yahoo! Inc. and
Japan’s Softbank Corp. may use Google’s search technology
instead of Microsoft Corp.’s, the Wall Street Journal’s All
Things Digital blog  reported  earlier.  
 The Japanese Internet company  rose  in Tokyo trading on
optimism a tie-up may help it expand the mobile-search business
through handsets equipped with Google’s Android operating system.
A deal may be a blow for  Microsoft , which last year agreed on a
10-year deal to combine its search business with that of
Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo.  
 “If Yahoo Japan started using Google’s search engine and
if its services were then used on Android smartphones, an
agreement may have big implications,” said  Atsuo Takahashi , an
analyst at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. “For Yahoo Japan,
this deal could be quite positive.”  
 The Japanese Internet company, 35 percent-owned by Yahoo in
the U.S. and about 40 percent by Softbank, had more than 52
million users as of March and its service accounted for more
than 50 percent of the Japanese market, according to a Nomura
Holdings Inc. report this month that cited a Nielsen Online
survey. Google has about 31 percent market share, according to
the report.  
 Yahoo-Microsoft Deal  
 Yoshito Funabashi , a Tokyo-based Google spokeswoman, was
not immediately available for comment.  
 Sunnyvale, California-based  Yahoo  and Microsoft won
regulatory approvals in the U.S. and Europe in February to
integrate their web search businesses and challenge Google.
Yahoo plans to use Microsoft’s Bing search engine on its sites
and complete the integration in the U.S. by the end of the year.  
 Yahoo Japan rose as much as 3.6 percent to 36,000 yen on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The shares have risen 26 percent this
year, compared with a 6.6 percent drop in the Topix index.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Le  in Tokyo at 
 ale14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        