-- Zijin to Limit Gold Mine's Output After Toxic Spill Poisoned Fujian River
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-28T08:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-27/zijin-to-limit-gold-mine-s-output-after-toxic-spill-poisoned-fujian-river.html

          
          
             Zijin Mining Group Co. , blamed for
the industry’s worst waste leakage in China in two years, said
it will limit production at a gold mine in the accident area.  
 Gold output will be reduced by about 1 metric ton this year
because of the restriction, Zijin said in  statements  to the
Shanghai and Hong Kong stock exchanges yesterday. The shares
rose today as trading restarted after a two-day suspension.  
 China’s biggest gold producer was forced to  shut its copper
plant  at Zijinshan in Fujian province this month after acid-
laced waste spilled from the site, poisoning enough fish to feed
72,000 people for a year. Zijin, which waited nine days to
reveal the spill, is being probed over disclosure of the
incident by the China Securities Regulatory Commission.  
 “The statement removed uncertainties over its gold
production,” said  Owen Liang , a Shenzhen-based analyst with
Guotai Junan Securities Co. “Cutting the output by 1 ton would
affect only 2 percent of its profit this year. The impact is
marginal.”  
 Zijin  gained 3 percent to close at HK$5.14 in Hong Kong.
The stock gained 2.5 percent to 5.86 yuan in Shanghai.  
 Zijin produces 30 tons of gold a year, including 18 tons
from the Zijinshan mine, Liang said. A ton of output is
equivalent to 5.6 percent of the mine production, or 3.3 percent
of the company’s total output of the precious metal a year.  
 Reduce Risks  
 Limiting production at the gold mine will aid efforts to
reduce environmental risks, Zijin said. The Shanghang county
government decided to restrict output after a meeting on July 26,
the company said.  
 “A penalty on the spill won’t be huge,” Liang said. “Our
concern is how much the environmental costs would increase for
Zijin’s other mining projects in future.”  
 The Zijinshan copper plant’s manager, deputy manager and
the head of environment were detained for the leak that polluted
the Ting River, the company’s China-based company secretary
 Zheng Yuqiang  said July 16. It was the worst accident in the
Chinese gold mining industry since July 2008, when runoff from a
Zhongjin Gold Corp. site in Dandong poisoned the water supply
for 210,000 people.  
 The Guangdong government stopped all fishing in the Ting
River until at least the end of July because of concern the
spill is widening to a second province. The Guangdong and Fujian
provincial governments are studying compensation demands for the
fishing losses,  Zhao Jugang , a company spokesman, said July 23.  
 Parts of the Ting River still contains copper content
that’s above safety limits for fish, the Meizhou government,
part of Fujian province, said today on its website after checks
made on July 25 and 26.  
 Zijin hasn’t been told of a penalty or compensation it
would have to pay yet, Zhao said. Compensation for fisheries in
Fujian may reach about 5 million yuan ($738,000), he said July
13.  
 -- Helen Yuan ,  Judy Chen . Editors:  Indranil Ghosh ,  Tan Hwee Ann   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        