-- U.S. Opposes Proposed `Don't Ask, Don't Tell' Ban in Military
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2010-09-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-05-30/mullen-seeks-review-of-gays-in-military-before-policy-change-takes-effect.html
A proposed court order that would
block the U.S. military’s “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy
should apply only to members of the group that challenged the
constitutionality of the law, the Department of Defense said.  The government opposes the proposal by the Log Cabin
Republicans, a group that promotes equal rights for gays and
lesbians, which seeks a “worldwide, military-wide injunction”
of the 1993 law allowing gays and lesbians to serve in the armed
forces as long as they don’t reveal their sexual orientation,
according to a federal court filing in Riverside, California.  U.S. District Judge  Virginia A. Phillips  in Riverside ruled
Sept. 10 that the law violates constitutionally protected due
process and free speech rights. The judge ruled the Log Cabin
Republicans are entitled to the injunction, and told the group
to submit a proposed order barring further enforcement of the
act.  The Log Cabin Republicans on Sept. 16 submitted a proposed
order blocking the defense department from enforcing or applying
‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.’  The order would stop the military from taking actions
against gay or lesbian service members that “influences their
military status, advancement, evaluation, duty assignment, duty
location, promotion, enlistment or reenlistment based upon their
sexual orientation,” according to the Sept. 16 filing.  The defense department argues that any proposed order must
be limited to the members of the Log Cabin Republicans, and not
applied to the U.S. military worldwide.  White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday that the Defense Department filing “in no
way diminishes” President  Barack Obama’s  commitment to achieve
a legislative repeal of ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.’ He said the
defense department “continues to work on a plan on how to
implement repeal.”  The case is Log Cabin Republicans v. U.S., 04-8425, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Riverside).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 