-- `Liquidity Trap' Plagues U.S., More Stimulus Is Required, Fed's Evans Says
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-10-16T19:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/-liquidity-trap-plagues-u-s-more-stimulus-is-required-fed-s-evans-says.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said the U.S. is in a “bona fide
liquidity trap” and needs “much more” monetary accommodation
in the face of high unemployment and inflation that’s too low.  “If you reach the conclusion that we are in a liquidity
trap, or even near a perilous liquidity trap, more accommodation
is not data-dependent or a close call,” the regional bank chief
said in a speech in Boston today. He advocated targeting a path
for the price level as a way to stop the inflation rate from
falling.  Central bankers, seeking ways to boost flagging growth
after lowering interest rates almost to zero and buying $1.7
trillion of securities, are weighing strategies for raising
inflation expectations as well as expanding the balance sheet by
purchasing Treasuries, according to minutes of the Fed’s Sept.
21 meeting released this week.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday that there
appears to be a “case for further action.” Some regional Fed
presidents, including Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser , have
questioned the need ease monetary policy further.  “I believe the U.S. economy is best described as being in
a bona fide liquidity trap,” Evans said to the Boston Fed’s
55th Economic Conference. “This belief is not a new development
for me; instead it is a dawning realization.” In a liquidity
trap, additions to the money supply fail to stimulate the
economy.  Easing Steps  The bank president’s comments are among the strongest of
any Fed official in favor of additional  easing steps . With
projections for unemployment to be at 8 percent and for
inflation excluding food and energy to be at 1 percent by the
end of 2012, “the Fed’s dual mandate misses are too large to
shrug off,” Evans said.  He gave his support to a target for the path of the price
level over a “reasonable period of time” that is communicated
“regularly and often” to the public. Such a policy could
complement large-scale asset purchases and a change to the
Federal Open Market Committee’s statement to include a pledge to
keep  rates near zero  for longer than “an extended period.”  Targeting a path for the price level would help the Fed
push inflation higher “for a time,” Evans said. The central
bank would need to state the terms for exiting the policy, he
said.  “I’ll admit that my views on this are evolving,” Evans
said in response to audience questions. “I think it could be
conveyed credibly but there’s a lot of work to establish that
and think through what the operational characteristics of this
would be.”  Lower Inflation  Some Fed officials are concerned that expectations of lower
inflation will become self-fulfilling, damping demand by
increasing borrowing costs in real terms, minutes of the
September meeting said. By encouraging Americans to believe
prices will start rising at a faster pace, the Fed would reduce
inflation-adjusted interest rates and stimulate the economy.  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said today that Japan’s
battle with deflation shows policy makers should take action to
stimulate growth before price levels drop.  “Insuring against the risk of deflation may be much
cheaper than waiting until it has occurred and then trying to
address it,” Rosengren said in a  speech at the conference .  The Bank of Japan pledged last week to keep its benchmark
interest rate at “virtually zero” until deflation has ended,
after first introducing the rate policy in 1999. Japan also
created a fund to buy government debt and other assets.  ‘Battling Deflation’  “The fact that Japan is still battling deflation
highlights how pernicious deflation can be, and how difficult it
is to counteract once it has been firmly established,”
Rosengren said.  In the minutes, the Fed gave several options for raising
short-term price expectations, including providing more
information on the inflation rate policy makers consider
consistent with their long-term goals and targeting a path for
the price level. For the first time, the Fed said it could also
target a path for nominal gross domestic product, which isn’t
adjusted for inflation.  Treasuries fell yesterday, driving 30-year yields to a two-
month high, and the Dollar Index rebounded from its 2010 low
amid confidence Bernanke will succeed in stoking inflation. U.S.
stocks rose as technology shares rallied, overshadowing losses
in banks and  General Electric Co.   Evans, 52, has led the Chicago Fed since September 2007 and
doesn’t vote on the rate-setting FOMC this year. He votes every
other year on the FOMC, as does Cleveland Fed President  Sandra Pianalto .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  