-- `Sister of the Outback' Mary MacKillop Becomes Australia's First Saint
-- B y   M a r i o n   R a e
-- 2010-10-17T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/-sister-of-the-outback-mary-mackillop-to-become-australia-s-first-saint.html
Australia’s five million Catholics
have their first saint after  Pope Benedict XVI  canonized Mary
MacKillop, co-founder more than 140 years ago of an order of
nuns known as the “Sisters of the Outback.”  More than 8,000 Australians are estimated to have joined
the crowd outside St. Peter’s Basilica in Rome attending
yesterday’s ceremony. The pope also granted sainthood to five
other candidates, from Canada, Poland, Spain and two from Italy.  MacKillop , who died in 1909 at the age of 67, was cleared
to become a saint when the Vatican in December endorsed the cure
of a woman with lung and brain cancer as her second miracle.
 Pope John Paul II  in 1995 accepted the first miracle attributed
to MacKillop, the recovery of a woman with leukemia.  MacKillop’s order, the Sisters of Saint Joseph of the
Sacred Heart, was founded in 1866 and became known as the
“Sisters of the Outback” as they traveled to remote mining
towns and farms to teach children and help poor families.  The South Australian town of  Penola , 1,295 kilometers (804
miles) by road from Sydney, where she founded her first school
in a disused stable in 1866, held a procession and open-air Mass
yesterday.  Pastry chef Jason Van Leuven created a “Gateau Mary
MacKillop,” an  almond cake  covered with lavender cream to
present to the order and pilgrims in the town where MacKillop
began her work.  Small, Humble  “It’s going to be very small and humble,” reflecting the
simplicity of MacKillop’s life, Van Leuven said by phone from
his business in Naracoorte. “It always amazes me how God uses
the most humble of people to do the most incredible jobs.”  Open-air Masses were held in Sydney and Melbourne, while a
musical about MacKillop, playing at a theater in Melbourne where
she was born, is a sellout. Images of the nun have been beamed
onto the pylons of Sydney Harbour Bridge at night and  Australia
Post  will issue a commemorative stamp tomorrow featuring a
photograph of the nun taken in the 1890s.  MacKillop, to be given the title Saint Mary of the Cross,
reflects the core values that Australians prize, “giving
everyone a fair go, standing up for those who are the
underdog,” Sister Sheila McCreanor, secretary-general of the
Sisters of St. Joseph, who is in Rome for the ceremony, told
Vatican Radio.  Australia’s government said it plans to stop businesses
profiting from her name by requiring ministerial approval for
companies that want to suggest a connection to MacKillop. The
only other Australian whose name gets the same level of
protection is cricketer and national hero  Sir Donald Bradman ,
who died in 2001.  Existing trademark and trade practices laws will continue
to guard against the “improper” use of MacKillop’s name, Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard , said on Oct. 11.  The measures recognize “the significance that Mary
MacKillop’s life holds, not only for the  five million 
Australians of Catholic faith, but for all Australians,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  