-- China Wants to Maintain Ties After Thousands of Japanese, Chinese Protest
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-17T08:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/anti-china-protest-in-tokyo-draws-thousands-sparks-rival-demonstration.html
China  said  it wants to maintain ties
with Japan after demonstrators in the nations staged protests
over a ship collision in contested waters last month that
brought relations to their lowest in five years.  “China and Japan are important neighbors,” Ministry of
Foreign Affairs spokesman Ma Zhaoxu said in Beijing late
yesterday. “There are some sensitive and complicated issues
between the two nations, and we suggest they be resolved by
dialogue to maintain the strategic relationship of mutual
benefit.”  As many as 3,000 Japanese marched through Tokyo yesterday,
protesting against China and highlighting the tensions between
Asia’s largest economies. Thousands of Chinese in cities from
Xi’an to Hangzhou took to the streets to support their country’s
claims to disputed islands near where the ship incident occurred,
the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported.  Japan is attempting to arrange a summit with Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  at this month’s meeting of Asian leaders in
Vietnam’s capital, Hanoi. The two men met in Brussels at an
Asia-Europe summit on Oct. 4 and pledged to mend ties frayed by
spats over the uninhabited islands in an area of the East China
Sea that contains undersea oil and gas reserves.  Protesters in Tokyo said their demonstration reflects
rising anti-China sentiment as well as disappointment with their
own government’s foreign policy. Japan arrested the Chinese
captain of a fishing boat after it collided with coast guard
vessels on Sept. 7, near the islands known as Senkaku in Japan
and Diaoyu in China, releasing him 17 days later.  Tokyo Rally  Demonstrators in Tokyo chanted “we will not allow China to
invade” the islands, which Japan administers and China claims
as its own.  Japan freed the captain after China detained four Japanese
employees of the construction company Fujita Corp. on Sept. 20
for allegedly videotaping military targets. The last of the
Fujita employees was let go on Oct. 9.  China also curbed exports of rare earth metals necessary
for Japan’s automobile and high-tech industries over the
incident, Japanese Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said on Sept.
28.  ‘Made Me Furious’  “China’s response to the collision by taking Japanese
hostages made me furious,” said Yuko Yamanoi, 31, an employee
of an environmental research firm in Tokyo, who attended
yesterday’s rally. “I’m boycotting Chinese goods even though
it’s difficult to find clothes and other items made in countries
other than China.”  Japan’s former air force chief  Toshio Tamogami  led a
procession to the Chinese embassy in the Roppongi financial and
entertainment district.  In Chengdu in Sichuan Province, protesters chanted slogans
such as “fight Japan,” Xinhua said. As many as 600 people
gathered in front of an  Isetan Mitsukoshi Holdings Ltd . store,
forcing it to close about five hours early, Yasuhiro Suzuki, a
company spokesman in Tokyo, said by telephone today.  Windows were smashed at the Ito-Yokado supermarket in
Chengdu, said Minoru Matsumoto, a spokesman for the Tokyo-based
parent company, Seven & I Holdings Co.  China expressed “deep concern” to Japan over the protest
staged by “right-wing organizations,” spokesman  Ma  said in a
separate statement on the ministry’s website.  -- Sachiko Sakamaki  and Xiao Yu. With assistance from  Shunichi Ozasa  and  Kanoko Matsuyama  in Tokyo. William Bi in Beijing.
Editors:  Paul Tighe ,  Patrick Harrington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Xiao Yu in Beijing at   yxiao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  