-- Arsenal Wins 2-1 as West Brom Ties Manchester United 2-2 in Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-10-16T17:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/arsenal-wins-2-1-as-west-brom-ties-manchester-united-2-2-in-premier-league.html
Arsenal beat Birmingham 2-1 to end a
three-match winless run in English soccer’s Premier League,
while West Brom rallied from two-goals down to tie 2-2 at
Manchester United.  Bolton and Tottenham also won 2-1, Newcastle fought back
for a 2-2 draw with Wigan and Wolverhampton and West Ham tied 1-
1 in a bottom-of-the-table clash.  Maraoune Chamakh’s early second half goal gave Arsenal the
home win which move’s the Gunners into second place on goal
difference ahead of Manchester United, Manchester City and
Tottenham, who all have 14 points, four fewer than leader
Chelsea, which visits Aston Villa in the day’s late game.  Nikola Zigic  gave Birmingham the lead with a 33rd-minute
header and  Samir Nasri  tied the score four minutes before
halftime with a penalty kick after referee Martin Atkinson ruled
Scott Dann took Chamakh down.  Chamakh put Arsenal in front two minutes into the second
half when he got the ball after a poor challenge from  Stephen Carr  and slid it into the net after going around goalkeeper  Ben Foster . Arsenal’s  Jack Wilshere  received a red card in injury
time for a tackle on Zigic.  West Brom got two fortuitous goals early in the second half
to tie Manchester United at Old Trafford. Javier Hernandez put
the hosts ahead after just five minutes and Nani doubled the
lead 20 minutes later.  Injury Time  But West Brom pulled one back in the 50th minute when Chris
Brunt’s free-kick took a deflection that went in off defender
 Patrice Evra . Five minutes later United goalkeeper  Edwin van der Sar  dropped a cross from Brunt and Somen Tchoyi was there to tap
the ball into the empty net.  Ivan Klasnic ’s goal in injury time gave Bolton its first
home win of the season, though Klasnic was sent off moments
later for a second yellow card. Chung-Yong Lee had given Bolton
the lead in the 22nd minute before  Rory Delap  tied the score for
Stoke just after halftime.  Tom Huddlestone  winning goal for Tottenham proved
controversial. He shot from about 25 yards into the corner of
the net in the 63rd minute, but the assistant referee raised his
flag to signal Spurs’  William Gallas  in an offside position.
Referee  Mike Dean , however, let the goal stand after conferring
with the official.  Diomansy Kamara had scored for Fulham in the 30th minute,
only for Tottenham’s  Roman Pavlyuchenko  to respond a minute
later.  Fabricio Coloccini  netted in injury time to give Newcastle
the home draw with Wigan.  Former Newcastle striker  Charles N’Zogbia  scored twice in a
minute in the first half to give Wigan a 2-0 lead. Shola Ameobi
scored for the Magpies in the 72nd minute, setting the stage for
Coloccini’s game-tying header.  Mark Noble ’s second-half penalty kick earned West Ham a
point at Wolves, which got a goal from Matt Jarvis. The victory
left the two at the foot of the standings with six points, the
same as Everton and Liverpool, who meet tomorrow in the
Merseyside derby.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  