-- Arsenal Wins 2-1 in Premier League as Chelsea, Manchester United Both Tie
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-10-16T19:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/arsenal-wins-2-1-in-premier-league-as-chelsea-manchester-united-both-tie.html
Arsenal beat Birmingham 2-1 to move
into second place in English soccer’s Premier League behind
Chelsea, which tied 0-0 against Aston Villa.  West Brom rallied from two goals down to tie 2-2 at
Manchester United. Bolton and Tottenham both won 2-1, Newcastle
fought back for a 2-2 draw with Wigan and Wolverhampton and West
Ham tied 1-1 in a bottom-of-the-table clash.  Marouane Chamakh’s second-half goal gave Arsenal the home
win which moves the Gunners into second place on goal difference
ahead of Manchester United, Manchester City and Tottenham, who
all have 14 points, five fewer than Chelsea. City can regain the
second spot not losing tomorrow at Blackpool  Nikola Zigic  gave Birmingham the lead with a 33rd-minute
header and  Samir Nasri  tied the score four minutes before
halftime with a penalty kick after referee Martin Atkinson ruled
Scott Dann took Chamakh down.  Chamakh put Arsenal in front two minutes into the second
half when he got the ball after a poor challenge from  Stephen Carr  and slid it into the net after going around goalkeeper  Ben Foster . Arsenal’s  Jack Wilshere  received a red card in injury
time for a tackle on Zigic.  Chelsea missed a chance to open a seven-point lead in the
standings with its draw at Villa Park.  Villa’s  Stephen Ireland  had the best chance of the first
half but sent a shot wide in the third minute. Chelsea then
dominated play in the second half and had headers from  Branislav Ivanovic  and  Nicolas Anelka  go off the goalpost.  Near Misses  Villa’s Ciaran Clark also hit the post with a header and
 Nigel Reo-Coker  shot wide after getting behind the Chelsea
defense in stoppage time.  West Brom got two fortuitous goals early in the second half
to tie Manchester United at Old Trafford. Javier Hernandez put
the hosts ahead after just five minutes and Nani doubled the
lead 20 minutes later.  But West Brom pulled one back in the 50th minute when Chris
Brunt’s free-kick took a deflection that went in off defender
 Patrice Evra . Five minutes later United goalkeeper  Edwin van der Sar  dropped a cross from Brunt and Somen Tchoyi was there to tap
the ball into the empty net.  It was the third time in eight games this season United has
blown a two-goal lead. The Red Devils are the league’s only
unbeaten team with three wins and five draws.  Ivan Klasnic ’s goal in injury time gave Bolton its first
home win of the season, though Klasnic was sent off moments
later for a second yellow card. Chung-Yong Lee had given Bolton
the lead in the 22nd minute before  Rory Delap  tied the score for
Stoke just after halftime.  Controversial Goal  Tom Huddlestone ’s winning goal for Tottenham proved
controversial. He put a shot from about 25 yards into the corner
of the net in the 63rd minute, but the assistant referee raised
his flag to signal Spurs’  William Gallas  in an offside position.
Referee  Mike Dean , however, let the goal stand after conferring
with the official.  Diomansy Kamara had scored for Fulham in the 30th minute,
only for Tottenham’s  Roman Pavlyuchenko  to respond a minute
later.  Fabricio Coloccini  netted in injury time to give Newcastle
the home draw with Wigan.  Former Newcastle striker  Charles N’Zogbia  scored twice in a
minute in the first half to give Wigan a 2-0 lead. Shola Ameobi
scored for the Magpies in the 72nd minute, setting the stage for
Coloccini’s game-tying header.  Mark Noble ’s second-half penalty kick earned West Ham a
point at Wolves, which got a goal from Matt Jarvis. The victory
left the two at the foot of the standings with six points, the
same as Everton and Liverpool, who meet tomorrow in the
Merseyside derby.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  