-- Asian Currencies Have Seventh Weekly Gain as Growth Lures Funds to Region
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2010-10-16T01:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/asian-currencies-have-seventh-weekly-gain-as-growth-lures-funds-to-region.html
Asian currencies completed a seventh
weekly advance, led by the Singapore dollar, as relatively high
yields and the world’s fastest economic growth spurred demand
for assets in the region’s developing nations.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia Dollar Index  climbed to its
highest level since April 2008 on speculation central banks will
be more tolerant of currency gains after Singapore said on Oct.
14 it will target faster appreciation in the next six months.
Equity funds investing in Asia excluding Japan have taken in
more than $1 billion in all but one of the past four weeks,
according to data from EPFR Global.  “With so much liquidity now, investors are seeking higher-
returns and Asia has been attracting those funds,” said  Minoru Shioiri , chief manager of currency trading in Tokyo at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. “Singapore’s
decision to allow a stronger currency seems to be an acceptance
of the weaker dollar trend.”  The Singapore dollar climbed 1.2 percent this week to
S$1.2965, its best performance in six months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. India’s rupee climbed 0.8 percent to
44.10 after global funds pumped $1.8 billion into the nation’s
equities in the first four days of the week. Thailand’s baht
strengthened 0.8 percent to 29.82, an 11th straight weekly gain.  Central banks in India, Malaysia, South Korea, Taiwan and
Thailand have raised interest rates this year to contain
inflation as their economies improve. Their counterparts in the
U.S. and Japan by contrast have near-zero rates and are buying
assets to inject funds and support growth.  Faster Appreciation  The Monetary Authority of Singapore said this week it will
steepen and widen the band in which its dollar trades against a
weighted basket of currencies, seeking a “modest and gradual”
advance. The Singapore dollar reached $1.2893 versus the
greenback after the bi-annual policy review, the strongest level
since at least 1981.  Asia’s developing economies will expand 9.4 percent in 2010,
compared with growth of 2.7 percent in advanced countries, the
International Monetary Fund forecast on Oct. 6. China’s gross
domestic product increased 9.5 percent from a year earlier in
the third quarter, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before an Oct. 21 report.  Yuan Pressure  The yuan rose to the strongest level since 1993 yesterday
on speculation American lawmakers will step up calls for faster
appreciation after the U.S. said its trade deficit with China
widened to a record $28 billion in August. The U.S. Treasury
Department yesterday said its twice-annual report on
international currencies will be delayed, including China’s,
while citing progress in the acceleration of the yuan’s rise.
The currency has appreciated 0.4 percent this week to 6.6412.  “The political pressure is quite strong,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in
Sydney. “It makes both economic and strategic sense for China
to allow a strong currency.”  Malaysia’s ringgit climbed 0.8 percent to 3.0855 per dollar
this week, contributing to this year’s 11 percent advance. The
currency touched a 13-year high this week, as did Thailand’s
baht. The baht is Asia’s best-performing emerging-market
currency of 2010 with a 12 percent gain.  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar jumped 1 percent from a week ago
to NT$30.793. The Philippine peso rose 0.5 percent to 43.185 and
Indonesia’s rupiah was 0.2 percent stronger at 8,913.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 