-- BOE Will Expand Stimulus by 100 Billion Pounds, CEBR Predicts
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-10-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/bank-of-england-will-expand-stimulus-plan-by-100-billion-pounds-cebr-says.html
The Bank of England will expand its
stimulus program by 100 billion pounds ($160 billion) to aid the
economic recovery, the Centre for Economics and Business
Research said.  The central bank will also keep its  benchmark interest rate 
at a record low of 0.5 percent until at least “late” 2012, the
London-based group said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The
bank kept its stimulus plan at 200 billion pounds this month.  Britain faces the largest public spending cuts since World
War II as the government tackles the record  budget deficit . The
British Chambers of Commerce earlier this month backed a call by
policy maker  Adam Posen  for the central bank to expand its bond
stimulus plan as recent data indicate the recovery has slowed.  “We expect the authorities to push the monetary policy
levers hard in the opposite direction to the fiscal policy
levers,” the CEBR said in the statement.  The CEBR’s forecast for  economic growth  in the first three
months of 2011 is 0.1 percent, which implies there is almost a
50 percent chance the economy will contract during the quarter,
according to the report.  Ernst & Young LLP’s Item Club said in a report today that
the U.K. economy is heading for “a soft patch” this winter as
the budget squeeze curtails growth, according to an e-mailed
statement.  The economic recovery will “gradually” pick up momentum
after that, said the research group, which uses the same
forecasting model as the U.K. Treasury.  Growth Forecasts  Gross domestic product  will rise 1.4 percent this year,
compared with a prediction in July for 1 percent expansion, the
Item Club said. A previous forecast of 2.2 percent growth in
2011 was unchanged, the group said. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  will announce details of his spending cuts on
Oct. 20.  Employers are lifting recruitment and wage freezes as they
look to increase hiring to take advantage of the recovery, the
Confederation of British Industry and The Harvey Nash Group said
in a separate report today.  The number of companies operating a recruitment hold has
fallen to 7 percent and the number with wage freezes in place
has dropped to 14 percent, the groups said in a biannual survey.
That compares with a peak of 61 percent and 55 percent
respectively in the spring of 2009, they said.  The CBI and Harvey Nash surveyed 330 U.K. employers, with a
total of almost two million staff, between July 16 and Aug. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  