-- Barbara Billingsley, TV Mom June on `Leave It to Beaver,' Dies at Age 94
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2010-10-16T21:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/barbara-billingsley-leave-it-to-beaver-sitcom-mom-june-dies-at-age-94.html
Barbara Billingsley, whose portrayal
of June Cleaver in the television sitcom “Leave It to Beaver”
established a lasting archetype for the devoted suburban mom of
the 1950s, has died, the Associated Press said. She was 94.  A family spokeswoman confirmed the death to AP. She was a
longtime resident of Santa Monica, California.  Billingsley  played the doting, impeccably dressed and
preternaturally pleasant-mannered matriarch who presided over
the “ Leave It to Beaver ” household during its 235-episode run
from 1957 to 1963. She reprised the role in sequels in the
1980s.  Though the show’s title role was that of Theodore
“Beaver” Cleaver -- June and Ward’s mischievous younger son,
played by  Jerry Mathers  -- much of the show’s legacy involves
Billingsley’s central, traditional role in the family.  “A sensible wife, mother and homemaker, her cookie drawer
is always full, the coffee is always fresh, and she never has a
hair out of place,” the cable network TV Land summed up in an
online  profile .  There was irony in Billingsley’s casting, since her own
family was so unlike the Cleavers’ idealized TV lives. Her
father left when she was an infant. One of her marriages ended
in divorce, a second one left her a widow. She was raising two
children on her own at the time she introduced American TV
viewers to June Cleaver.  Still, Billingsley said she believed in the traditional
view of marriage and motherhood represented by Mrs. Cleaver.  ‘Children Need Mothers’  “She was a loving, happy, stay-at-home mom, which I think
is great,” Billingsley said in a 2000  interview  with the
Academy of Television Arts and Sciences Foundation.  “I’m not for every woman having to be out in the
workplace. My mother was. I had two children at home and I was
working. But I think one who stays home, if she’s doing a good
job, it is the best job she’ll ever have, and the most
important. And I think our children need the mothers home,” she
said.  Billingsley was a welcome presence on the set even when the
cameras were off. She was “especially motherly in her attention
to the children, displaying a genuine interest in their hobbies
and school work that was very much in character with her role as
June,” according to Irwyn Applebaum’s 1984  book , “The World
According to Beaver.”  One Regret  Billingsley said she had one regret about the show’s long
success in reruns. Under the standard contract of the 1950s, she
explained, residual payments to actors ended after six reruns,
rather than run in perpetuity.  She reprised the June Cleaver role in “Still the Beaver,”
a 1983 TV movie.  Hugh Beaumont , who had played her husband Ward
in the original show, had died a year earlier, so the script
presented June as a widow who runs for, and wins, a seat on the
city council.  She also appeared in a revival series, “The New Leave It
to Beaver,” which ran on cable from 1985 to 1989.  The most memorable of her other roles came in the comic
film “ Airplane! ” (1980). She played a passenger who intercedes
to bridge a communication gap between a white flight attendant
and a black passenger speaking in street slang.  “Oh stewardess -- I speak jive,” Billingsley’s character
explains, before proving she really does.  “I thought it was the craziest script I ever read,”
Billingsley later recalled. “All kinds of things happened to me
because of that role. I got fan mail!”  Stage and Screen  Barbara Lillian Combes was born Dec. 22, 1915, in Los
Angeles, the second of two daughters born to Robert and Lillian
Combes. Her father’s departure left a single-parent household --
“unheard of in those days,” Billingsley recalled.  Billingsley attended Los Angeles Junior College for one
year. She arrived in New York with a traveling production of the
play “Straw Hat,” which closed after only five days. She
decided to stay, landing a job as a fashion model for Herbert
and Foxy Sondheim, the parents of playwright Stephen.  In 1941, she married restaurant owner Glenn Billingsley,
moving to Key West, Florida, and then to Los Angeles. The
marriage produced two sons before it ended in divorce in 1947.  Billingsley returned to stage acting, then worked for
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. She was cast in small parts in several
movies, and later had larger roles in episodes of the TV dramas
“Four Star Playhouse” and “Schlitz Playhouse of Stars,”
twice appearing alongside  Ronald Reagan .  Other roles included providing the voice of Nanny on three
episodes of “Muppet Babies” in the 1980s.  Billingsley was married to her second husband, English-born
director Roy Kellino, for three years until his death in 1956.
In 1959, she married William Mortensen, a doctor, who died in
1981.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Arnold  in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 