-- Canadian Currency Touches Parity for First Time Since April on Fed Outlook
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-16T04:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/canadian-currency-touches-parity-for-first-time-since-april-on-fed-outlook.html
Canada’s dollar rose to parity with
its U.S. counterpart for the first time since April as the
greenback fell against most counterparts amid concern more
Federal Reserve easing will debase the world’s reserve currency.  The Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image
of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, rose for a seventh straight
week as the greenback dropped versus 14 of the 16 most-traded
currencies, trailing only the Mexican peso and South African
rand. All 17 economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast Bank
of Canada policy makers will leave the benchmark interest rate
at 1 percent when they meet on Oct. 19.  “For Canadian-dollar strength over the past few weeks, the
primary contributor has been the weak U.S. dollar,”  CJ Gavsie ,
managing director for foreign-exchange trading in Toronto at
Bank of Montreal, wrote via e-mail. Gavsie forecast a near-term
rise in the loonie to at least 99.31 U.S. cents, although he
wrote that “we may have a slight correction first in the U.S.
dollar, taking us back to the C$1.0150 to C$1.0200 area.”  The currency closed at C$1.0104 per U.S. dollar yesterday
in Toronto, up 0.1 percent from C$1.0111 on Oct. 8. It advanced
through a one-for-one level with the greenback to 99.81 Canadian
cents per U.S. dollar on Oct. 14, the strongest since April 26.
One Canadian dollar buys 98.97 U.S. cents.  Government bonds fell this week, pushing the 10-year
benchmark  note yield  up 10 basis points to 2.78 percent. The 3.5
percent security maturing in June 2020 fell 84 cents to
C$106.03. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  ‘Additional Accommodation’  The  Dollar Index , used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major trading
partners including the loonie, has dropped 4.2 percent since
Sept. 21, when the Fed said in a statement following its policy
meeting that it’s prepared “to provide additional accommodation
if needed” to support the recovery.  The U.S. dollar slumped yesterday versus the euro and yen
and slid to parity with the Australian dollar after Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said in a speech additional monetary stimulus
may be warranted. He said U.S. inflation is too low and
unemployment too high. The remarks fueled speculation the Fed
will buy more government bonds to spur the economy, a strategy
known as quantitative easing.  The loonie’s rise to parity was “largely brought about by
the increased focus on additional quantitative easing in the
U.S.,”  Matthew Strauss , senior currency strategist in Toronto
at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital unit, wrote in a note to
clients yesterday. “Domestic fundamentals continue to support a
move toward and maybe even beyond parity over the medium term.”  Parity ‘New Normal’  Employment  differentials  between the U.S. and Canada, which
has already recouped all of the jobs it lost during the
recession, suggest “parity could well be the new normal” for
the two countries’ currencies, Strauss wrote.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said this week Canada will be
the first country in the Group of Seven nations to balance its
budget by 2015, boosting the appeal of the nation’s debt to
investors looking for countries with relatively sound fiscal
positions. Two-year government note yields in Canada are the
second highest in the G7 after Italy, adding to the attraction
for global bond buyers.  International investors bought C$6 billion ($5.9 billion)
more in Canadian stocks, bonds and money-market instruments than
they sold in August, according to the median of 4 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg before Statistics Canada releases the data
on Oct. 18.  Five-Year Rally  The loonie traded on a one-for-one basis with the dollar in
September 2007 for the first time in three decades, capping a
five-year run on the back of booming demand for commodities.
Canada, the largest trading partner of the U.S., benefited
during that period from rising demand for copper, gold, wheat
and oil from the U.S. and emerging economies such as India and
China.  Canada is the world’s second-largest producer of uranium,
after Kazakhstan. It’s the No. 2 exporter of natural gas and
sits on the largest pool of oil  reserves  outside of the Middle
East. It’s also the second-largest wheat exporter.  The loonie touched 99.31 Canadian cents per U.S. dollar on
April 21, the strongest level since June 2008. It has averaged
C$1.2579 per greenback over the past 10 years. The Canadian
currency is up 4 percent this year against its U.S. counterpart,
after gaining 16 percent last year.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  became the first G7
central banker to raise borrowing costs since July 2008 when he
lifted the overnight rate by a quarter-percentage point to 0.5
percent in June. Successive boosts in July and September brought
it to 1 percent. Policy makers meet on Oct. 19 to set rates.  Canada’s budget deficit will be 1.6 percent of output next
year, compared with 8 percent in the U.S., 5.5 percent in the
euro zone and 8.2 percent in Japan, according to median
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  index rose 1 percent this week.
Crude oil for November delivery was down 1.7 percent to $81.25 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, paring its gain this
year. Crude is Canada’s largest export, and the loonie tends to
track oil and stock prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  at 
Cfournier3@!bloomberg.net  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  