-- Chile's Miners Ask Media to Leave Them Alone as They Recover From Ordeal
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-16T20:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/chile-s-miners-ask-media-to-leave-them-alone-as-they-recover-from-ordeal.html
Chile’s freed miners asked the media
to respect their privacy as they adjust to life above ground
after being trapped a half mile under the earth for more than
two months.  Juan Illanes said he and the other 32 miners have been
overwhelmed by media attention since being hoisted out of the
ground this week in Chile’s Atacama Desert.  “This has taken on scandalous proportions,” Illanes,
flanked by six other freed miners, told journalists at a
televised news conference in Copiapo, Chile, near the mine.
“Please give us enough space to learn how to confront you all.”  The miners plan to write a book about their experience and
have agreed to keep details of their ordeal among themselves for
now, Illanes said. “I am party to the idea of maintaining this
as a state secret,” he said.  Since the last of the 33 men was lifted to the surface in a
four-meter long capsule on Oct. 13, reporters have been staking
out miners’ homes and the hospital where they were examined by
doctors. More than 1 billion people watched the rescue live on
television networks around the world, TVN reported.  Today, miner Omar Reygadas said he was overwhelmed by the
attention as he was stopped by a TVN reporter as he was leaving
a medical checkup in Copiapo. “This is really hard to deal
with,” Reygadas told TVN. “I’m overcome with emotion.”  Post Traumatic Stress  Jorge Diaz, medical director for the Chilean Insurance
Association, which is treating the miners, said the miners are
all suffering from post traumatic stress syndrome. “We don’t
know how long this will last,” he told TVN.  So far, the rescued miners haven’t told the full story of
the first 17 days before they were discovered alive. The men
made a pact about what they will make public and what will
remain private, said Illanes.  Illanes said he went to work in the San Jose copper mine
even though he knew it was unsafe. “When you don’t have a good
job and a company offers you something that’s substantially
above average, and I’m talking about wages, what do you do?” El
Mercurio’s online news service reported Illanes as saying. “You
take it. It’s an issue of money.”  To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Michael Smith  in Santiago at 
 mssmith@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at  