-- China Rare Earths to Last 15-20 Years, May Import
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-16T09:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/china-says-its-medium-heavy-rare-earth-reserves-may-last-only-15-20-years.html
  China ’s medium and heavy rare earths
reserves may last 15 years to 20 years at the current rate of
production, possibly requiring imports, the  Ministry of Commerce 
said today.  Domestic rare earths deposits dropped to 27 million metric
tons by the end of 2009, or just 30 percent of the world’s total
known reserves, from 43 million tons, or 43 percent of the world
total, in 1996, Chao Ning, section chief of foreign trade at the
ministry  said at a Beijing conference.  China, controller of more than 90 percent of production of
the  materials  used in cell phones and radar, cut its export
quotas by 72 percent for the second half and reduced output,
spurring a trade dispute with the U.S. The country may not be
able to meet growing global demand as the government continues
to curb output, Lynas Corp. said in March.  “We cannot rule out the possibility that China may need to
rely on imports sometime in the future for these minerals,
instead of supplying the world,” Chao said.  Japan, the world’s biggest importer of rare earths, will
urge China to boost shipments of the minerals after a government
survey showed that 31 Japanese buyers reported problems with
exports, Trade Minister Akihiro Ohata said in Tokyo Oct. 5.  U.S. Complaint  The U.S. has asked business groups and labor unions to
provide evidence that China is hoarding these elements for a
case that might be filed at the  World Trade Organization .  Production and export quota cuts are to protect the
environment and in line with WTO rules, Yao Jian, spokesman for
China’s Ministry of Commerce, said yesterday.  China reduced its quota for rare-earth exports to 7,976
tons for the half, compared with 22,283 tons for the first half
and 28,417 tons for second half of last year, according to data
from the ministry.  “China cannot afford to continue to carry the burden of
supplying the world, from a strategic, environment and economic
point of view,” Chao said.  Rare earths are a group of 17 chemically similar metallic
elements, including lanthanum, cerium, neodymium and europium.
The U.S. was self-sufficient in the materials until the mid-
1980s, when lower labor and regulatory costs helped China’s
climb to dominance, the  U.S. Geological Survey  said in a report.  “China is not the only country that has these deposits,
but it has been carrying the lion’s share of the supply in more
than a decade, at the cost of quickly depleting its own
resources and hurting its environment,” Chao said.  A rare-earth mine in the U.S., in Mountain Pass,  California ,
shut down most operations in 2002.  Molycorp Inc ., which owns the
mine, plans to reopen it this year, the company said in a June
prospectus.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  