-- Clinton Urges U.S. Technology Companies to Help Reach Foreign Policy Goals
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-10-16T02:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/clinton-urges-u-s-technology-companies-to-help-reach-foreign-policy-goals.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
praised the innovation of U.S. businesses such as  Google Inc. ,
as she called on technology companies to use their resources to
help meet the country’s foreign policy goals.  Silicon Valley’s new technologies drive U.S. leadership and
empower civil leaders and citizens in closed countries, and the
Obama administration wants to integrate that “into every aspect
of our foreign policy,” Clinton said in prepared remarks to the
 Commonwealth Club  in San Francisco, the nation’s oldest public
affairs forum.  Since taking charge at the State Department, Clinton has
encouraged the use of technology to bolster development work.
One of her first acts was to appoint a senior adviser for
innovation. On Oct. 7, Clinton and  Cherie Blair , wife of former
British Prime Minister  Tony Blair , kicked off the “ mWomen
initiative ” to get mobile phones to more women in developing
countries.  “Part of our approach is to embrace new tools, like using
cell phones for mobile banking or to monitor elections,”
 Clinton  said. “But we’re also reaching out to the people behind
those tools, the innovators and entrepreneurs themselves.”  The State Department is pursuing private-public
partnerships to match the “on-the-ground” experience of its
diplomats and development experts with the resources of U.S.
companies, Clinton said. State Department officials have taken
delegations of technology leaders with them to Syria, Mexico,
Colombia, India and Russia, she said.  “We want to invest in innovative delivery systems and
financial tools, in fresh solutions,” Clinton said. “If you
have an idea, we’ll listen.”  At the event with Blair, Clinton outlined how her agency
uses mobile technologies to coordinate disaster relief and track
its global health programs. For women in the developing world, a
mobile phone can provide information about how to protect crops
from pests or allow them to control the family finances, Clinton
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  