-- Fortress Credit Chief Briger Moving to San Francisco as Firm Opens Office
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-10-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/fortress-credit-chief-briger-moving-to-san-francisco-as-firm-opens-office.html
Peter Briger , co-chairman of
 Fortress Investment Group LLC  and head of the credit unit, will
move to San Francisco and open a new office for the asset-
management firm.  Briger’s deputy,  Dean Dakolias , and other members of his
group also will move west, along with a number of traders, the
New York-based firm said yesterday in an e-mail to employees.
The firm also announced personnel changes including the
departure of  Jarett Wait , who oversees investor relations and
capital formation globally.  “Our business in Japan is big and growing, which requires
me to spend more time on the phone and traveling to Asia,”
Briger said yesterday in a telephone interview. He said the move
will take place late next year.  Briger is moving for personal as well as professional
reasons, according to the e-mail. He and his team oversee about
$11.6 billion in assets. Fortress, which also has a West Coast
office in Los Angeles, managed $41.7 billion in private-equity,
hedge-fund and fixed-income investments as of midyear, according
to its website.  In addition, the firm’s credit private-equity funds have
about $4.1 billion of uncalled or recallable committed capital
that will become assets under management when invested,
according to its second-quarter earnings release.  Adam Levinson , co-chief investment officer of global macro
funds, will move to Singapore to lead the buyout and hedge-fund
firm’s expansion in Asia.  ‘Impact of Asia’  “With the impact of Asia and particularly Japan in credit
and the location of Pete’s investors and competition in the
area, the move makes sense,” Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Mudd  said in the e-mail. “He may be moving to San Francisco but
he ain’t going anywhere.”  Gordon Runte, a spokesman for Fortress, confirmed the
authenticity of the internal e-mail. Wait didn’t respond to an
e-mail request for comment after regular business hours.  David Cody , a fundraiser in the company’s credit unit, left
in April after helping create its hybrid-fund business,
according to two people with direct knowledge of that move.  Fortress was founded as a private-equity firm in 1998 by
 Wesley Edens ,  Robert Kauffman  and  Randal Nardone . The company
hired Briger and  Michael Novogratz , both Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. partners, in 2002 to expand into hedge funds, real estate
and debt securities. Briger spent 15 years at Goldman Sachs in
positions including co-head of the Asian distressed-debt
business.  Fortress closed the Fortress Japan Opportunity Domestic
Fund in June, saying it would invest in real estate debt and
other assets in Japan over the next 12 months.  Private-equity firms, which have their roots in the
leveraged buyouts of the 1980s, pool money from investors to
take over companies, usually with a mix of cash and debt, with
the intention of selling them later for a profit.  Hedge funds are loosely regulated pools of capital whose
managers can hold a mix of investments and share in profits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  