-- French Refineries Shut for Fifth Day Amid Protests on Pension-Age Increase
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-10-16T14:40:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/french-refineries-shut-for-fifth-day-amid-protests-on-pension-age-increase.html
France’s 12 oil refineries remained
shut as unions planned a fifth day of protests to try to force
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s government to drop plans to raise
the retirement age.  “All the refineries are shut and they will stay shut until
Sarkozy listens,” Eric Sellini, a representative of the CGT
union, said today by telephone. “No crude is arriving, no
refined products are leaving.”  About 230 demonstrations are planned across France today.
Government leaders have repeatedly said they won’t back down on
raising the minimum retirement age to 62 from 60, saying it’s
necessary to cut losses at the state retirement system.  The lower  National Assembly  has already passed the measure,
which also raises the age for a full pension to 67 from 65. The
Senate is due to approve it on Oct. 20.  Unions have called for another day of protests on Oct. 19,
accompanied by the fourth national strike since September.  “We are facing a government that wants to radicalize the
country,”  Francois Chereque , secretary general of the CFDT
union, said before the start of the Paris demonstration. “It’s
up to them to suspend the parliamentary process and open
negotiations.”  Police said 20,000 people began the Paris march today, down
from 50,000 at the last protest on a Saturday, on Oct. 2.  Jean- Claude Mailly , secretary general of the Force Ouvriere union,
said it was about the same turnout as the previous march, when
unions estimated 300,000 attended.  Under Scrutiny  Union estimates have come under increasing scrutiny. They
say 330,000 marched in Paris on Oct. 12. Mediapart, an anti-
government Internet news site, said it counted 76,000 that day
and  Lynce , a Spanish company that specializes in counting
crowds, said no more than 80,330 marched in Paris. The police
estimated a crowd of 89,000.  Nationwide, unions said 3.5 million people protested on
Oct. 12, up from 2.9 million on Oct. 2. Police say it was about
1 million. Neither side has yet made a country-wide estimate for
today.  Workers at refineries and some ports have downed tools
since the last one-day national strike on Oct. 12. Six of
France’s 12 refineries are run by  Total SA . Oil import points at
ports in Le Havre, Marseille and near Nantes are also being
blocked. Police yesterday moved in to remove barricades at three
fuel depots, and opened another early this morning, LCI
television reported.  Marseille Port  The Marseille port authority said in a statement today that
63 merchant ships are being held up by the strike, including 28
crude tankers and 10 natural gas carriers. Ferries to Corsica
are also blocked.  Transport Minister  Dominique Bussereau  said on LCI
television on Oct. 14 the nation has enough fuel for at least a
month as long as consumers stop “precautionary buying.” He
also said purchases at service stations have jumped 50 percent
as motorists rush to fill their tanks.  “There is no shortage, there is no reason to panic,”
Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said today on RTL radio.
“France has enough fuel supply for several weeks.” She said
230 of France’s 13,200 service stations were short of fuel.  The number of France’s 200 fuel depots that are being
blocked “could be counted on one hand,”  Jean-Louis Schilansky ,
head of the French Union of Petroleum Industries, said in a
telephone interview. “We have plenty of fuel, we have access to
fuel. The problem is that people are rushing to fill up.”  Airports Supplied  Paris’ largest airport, Charles de Gaulle, has enough
aviation fuel to last until Oct. 19, a spokesman for the
Transport Ministry said. A pipeline supplying the airport is
working intermittently and the government is taking steps to
keep it supplied beyond next Tuesday, he said.  A spokesman for Air France SA said the  largest French
airline  isn’t experiencing any fuel problems and it’s following
recommendations from France’s civil aviation authority to fill
its planes with jet fuel at foreign airports as much as
possible.  Some truckers blocked highways in the north of the country
and similar actions are planned next week, LCI television said,
citing union leaders.  Paris commuter trains and local rail services throughout
France are running at half service, while two of three scheduled
high-speed trains are running, more than in previous days.
Within Paris, metros and buses have been running normally for
the past three days even though three unions have voted to keep
striking.  Paris Transport  Lagarde said on RTL radio that pension reform is
“fundamental” and “essential.” The government has already
made concessions such as allowing people who started working in
some professions as teenagers to retire at 60, and making
arrangements for working mothers who have at least three
children.  A poll by Ifop for newspaper Humanite said 57 percent of
the French want the government’s pension reform altered, 27
percent support the proposals, and 16 percent say no change is
needed. The poll questioned 981 people from Oct. 12 to 14 and no
margin of error was given.  The government says it needs to balance the pension
system’s budget by 2018. The overhaul is part of its struggle to
reduce the overall deficit. This year the gap will stand at 7.7
percent of gross domestic product and Sarkozy plans to cut it to
6 percent next year.  Since the unions’ first protest strike on Sept. 7, the  risk
premium  on French bonds has increased. Investors demand 40 basis
points more to buy 10-year French bonds than comparable German
securities, compared with 30 basis points on Sept. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  