-- Iraq's Ayad Allawi Tells CNN Iran Funds, Directs Terrorism in Middle East
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-10-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/iraq-s-ayad-allawi-tells-cnn-iran-funds-directs-terrorism-in-middle-east.html
Iran is trying to destabilize Iraq
and its neighbors, former Iraqi Prime Minister  Ayad Allawi  said
on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” program.  Allawi, a secular Shiite whose political party won the
largest bloc in March 7 elections, said Iraq’s stalled political
process and its faltering economy are breeding extremism,
according to a transcript of the program, scheduled to be
broadcast today.  Political paralysis has gripped Iraq since the election,
with Allawi and incumbent Prime Minister  Nuri al-Maliki  locked
in a power struggle to amass the largest number of seats in
parliament and gain the right to form a new government. Allawi
has the backing of 130 members of the 325-seat assembly,
compared with 132 for al-Maliki’s Shiite-led State of Law group,
 al-Sumaria  television reported.  “We know Iran is trying to wreak havoc on the region and
trying to destabilize the region by destabilizing Iraq and
destabilizing Lebanon and destabilizing the Palestinian issue,”
Allawi said. He said Iraq’s internal political situation
contributes to an atmosphere that encourages further extremism.  Vicious Circle  “We are entering into a kind of vicious circle,” Allawi
said on CNN. “The extreme forces are trying to sabotage the
stability of the environment to create more scope for themselves
to operate in.”  Allawi draws support from secular Shiites and Sunni
Muslims, a minority group in Iraq. His Iraqiyah bloc is trying
to bolster support by intensifying their efforts to lure
deputies from al-Maliki’s alliance.  The State of Law coalition this month won the support of
 Moqtada al-Sadr , the anti-American Shiite cleric, and his
backers, giving the incumbent an advantage. Al-Maliki still
needs more allies to gain a simple majority.  Both leaders have drawn criticism from senior Iraqi clergy
for their trips in the region to gain support from neighbors
such as Syria and Iran. Al-Maliki traveled this week to Damascus
to meet Syrian President  Bashar al-Assad . His office said this
week that he may soon visit Gulf nations and Jordan.  The political impasse has made kingmakers of Iraq’s Kurds,
who hold about 53 seats in the assembly. They are negotiating
with both Allawi and al-Maliki. In 2006, their support allowed
al-Maliki and his Shiite coalition to take power.  The Kurds, strong U.S. allies in Iraq, are making a series
of demands in exchange for their support, including the right to
administer their own oil fields, according to the Washington
Post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  