-- New York Yankees Rally to Beat Texas 6-5 in AL Championship Series Opener
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2010-10-16T05:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/new-york-yankees-rally-to-beat-texas-6-5-in-al-championship-series-opener.html
The New York Yankees rallied from a
five-run deficit, scoring five times in the eighth inning to
defeat the Texas Rangers 6-5 in the opening game of their
American League Championship Series.  Alex Rodriguez  had a two-run single,  Derek Jeter  hit a run-
scoring double and  Robinson Cano  and  Marcus Thames  added RBI
singles in New York’s eighth-inning outburst last night.  Josh Hamilton’s  three-run home run in the first inning and
 Michael Young ’s two-run double in the fourth had staked the
Rangers to a 5-0 lead and left them six outs from getting the
first home postseason win in club history.  “It’s a great win for our club,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said in a news conference. “It’s a huge win.”  The Rangers, cheered on by former President  George W. Bush ,
now have a 0-7 record at home in the postseason and a 10-game
postseason losing streak to the Yankees -- who defeated Texas in
the AL playoffs in 1996, 1998 and 1999.  “It didn’t happen tonight,” Rangers manager Ron
Washington said in a news conference. “I don’t know if we gave
it away. I guess in a sense it got away from us.”  Game 2 in the best-of-seven series is today at Rangers
Ballpark in Arlington, Texas, with  Phil Hughes  pitching for the
Yankees and  Colby Lewis  scheduled to start for Texas.  The National League Championship Series opens tonight in
Philadelphia with a highly anticipated pitching matchup. The
Phillies will start  Roy Halladay , who pitched a no-hitter in the
divisional sweep of the Cincinnati Reds, against two-time
reigning Cy Young Award winner  Tim Lincecum  of the San Francisco
Giants.  Elvis Andrus  led off the Texas team first with a walk, and
Young singled. Hamilton then hit his first postseason home run
to right field off  CC Sabathia , who lasted four innings for New
York.  Hamilton’s Hitting  Hamilton, 29, led the American League in batting with a
.359 average this season, and hit 32 home runs and drove in 100
runs during the regular season despite missing 24 games in
September with two broken ribs. He struggled in the AL Division
Series against Tampa Bay, going 2-for-18 with six strikeouts.  Young’s double made it 5-0, and the score stayed that way
until Cano hit a home run leading off the Yankees’ seventh
inning. In the eighth, the Yankees had five hits off five Texas
pitchers.  Brett Gardner  led off with an infield single, diving head
first into first base, and Jeter followed with an RBI double
that knocked starting pitcher  C.J. Wilson  out of the game.
 Darren Oliver  relieved, walking the only two batters he faced to
load the bases. Rodriguez greeted reliever  Darren O’Day  with a
single to make it 5-4.  Clay Rapada  came in to pitch, and Cano
tied the game with a single. Reliever  Derek Holland  then allowed
a tiebreaking single by Thames.  ‘Five Big Runs’  “The first seven innings didn’t go too well for us,”
Gardner said in a television interview. “We were able to come
back and get five big runs in the eighth inning.”  Kerry Wood  pitched the eighth for New York and  Mariano Rivera  pitched a scoreless ninth for his record-extending 42nd
postseason save.  Bush, who was the Rangers’ managing general partner from
1989 to 1994, sat next to Rangers President  Nolan Ryan  behind
home plate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  