-- Obama Tells New York Times He's Learned Washington Rules to Propel Agenda
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-10-17T10:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/obama-still-aims-high-for-next-two-years-with-lessons-learned-nyt-reports.html
President  Barack Obama ’s first two
years in office have taught him that he has to play by
Washington’s rules to push his agenda forward and that “shovel-
ready” public works projects don’t exist, according to a
profile in the  New York Times Magazine  appearing today.  The 8,284-word profile portrays a president and White House
recalibrating in the face of Republican opposition and
dissatisfaction across the political spectrum. Obama says he has
no regrets about the direction of his presidency and no
intention of scaling back his ambitions.  The president doesn’t intend to shy away from tough policy
issues in his remaining two years in office and his staff is
proud that he has fulfilled three of five major campaign
promises on health care, education reform and financial
regulation, the article says.  “We’ve probably accomplished 70 percent of the things that
we talked about during the campaign,” Obama told the Times.
“And I hope as long as I’m president, I’ve got a chance to work
on the other 30 percent.”  Presidential aides quoted in the story say they were over-
confident about changing Washington. Obama told the newspaper
that his administration’s “perverse pride” in concentrating on
policy over politics, and not doing a better job to win over the
public, has hurt them.  “We were going to do the right thing, even if short-term
it was unpopular,” Obama told the Times. “Anybody who’s
occupied this office has to remember that success is determined
by an intersection in policy and politics and that you can’t be
neglecting of marketing and P.R. and public opinion.”  Message to Shift  Obama said he is optimistic that going forward he will be
able to work with Republicans, even as he plans to tackle issues
such as immigration reform and the budget deficit.  The White House message will shift, according to Obama’s
interim Chief of Staff  Peter Rouse  and his Deputy Chief of Staff
 Jim Messina .  The administration will talk more publicly about exports,
initiative and the private sector and less about public
spending, one unidentified administration official told the
newspaper, which describes former White House budget director
 Peter Orszag  as being stunned at the disconnection between
perceptions inside and outside the White House, particularly in
the corporate world.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net  and  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  