-- Obama Says Tax Breaks Shouldn't Reward Companies for Creating Jobs Abroad
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-10-16T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/obama-says-tax-breaks-shouldn-t-reward-companies-for-creating-jobs-abroad.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
tax code shouldn’t benefit companies that create jobs in other
countries, as he criticized Republicans for “rewarding
corporations that create jobs and profits overseas.”  “For years, our tax code has actually given billions of
dollars in  tax breaks  that encourage companies to create jobs
and profits in other countries,” Obama said in his weekly
address on the radio and Internet. “We should be using our tax
dollars to reward companies that create jobs and businesses
within our borders.”  With less than three weeks to go until U.S. congressional
elections, Obama defended steps taken by his administration to
spur hiring and help the economy grow, such as legislation
signed last month to provide tax cuts and credit help for small
businesses. Obama said that measure has already helped
“thousands of business owners” get access to government loans.  “When more things are made in America, more families make
it in America, more jobs are created in America, more businesses
thrive in America,” he said.  About 8 million jobs have been lost during the recession
and the  unemployment rate , after reaching a 26-year high of 10.1
percent in October 2009, was 9.6 percent last month.  Obama said the nation remains in a “tough fight” to help
the economy recover. He said government has an “important
responsibility” to help business grow.  “That’s to create an environment in which someone can
raise capital to start a new company, where a business can get a
loan to expand, where ingenuity is prized and folks are rewarded
for their hard work,” he said.  Republican Address  In the Republican address, U.S. Representative  Mike Pence ,
of Indiana, said Congress should take immediate steps to extend
current income-tax rates to remove doubts that are damaging the
economy.  “Uncertainty is the enemy of our prosperity,” he said.  Tax cuts passed under the administration of President
 George W. Bush  are scheduled to expire at the end of this year.  Obama and most Democrats have backed extending the lower
tax rates only for households making more than $250,000 per
year. Republicans support an across-the-board extension.  “No American should see a  tax increase  in January, and
Republicans are determined to oppose any effort to raise taxes
on any American in this difficult economy,” Pence said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  