-- Massachusetts Democrats Told of `Long Way to Go' as Obama Stumps for Party
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-10-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/obama-on-campaign-trail-tells-massachusetts-democrats-of-long-way-to-go-.html
President  Barack Obama  told
Democratic voters in Massachusetts that the nation still has “a
long way to go” as he rallied them to vote in next month’s
elections.  “It’s not just about the work we’ve done, it’s about the
work we’ve got left to do,” Obama said yesterday at a rally at
Boston’s  Hynes Convention Center  for Massachusetts Governor
 Deval Patrick .  Obama was on the campaign trail yesterday stumping for
Patrick’s re-election bid and raising money for Democratic
congressional candidates. The president is trying to protect the
Democratic majority in both houses of Congress in the Nov. 2
midterm elections.  “I think we are going to hold on to the Senate,” Obama
said at a fundraiser at a private home in West Newton,
Massachusetts, for the  Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee .
“I think we can win the House.”  The nonpartisan Cook Political Report projects Democrats
will lose at least 40 seats in the House of Representatives,
costing the president’s party control, and lose 7 to 9 seats in
the Senate. Democrats currently have a 57-seat majority in the
100-member Senate, with two independent members also supporting
the party.  Massachusetts Contest  In Massachusetts, Patrick is tied with his Republican
challenger Charles Baker, according to a Boston Globe survey
conducted in September.  In the state’s congressional races, Cook rates three of the
10 Democratic-held congressional seats in Massachusetts as
competitive, though still likely to be retained by the party.  Republican  Scott Brown  won a Massachusetts special election
last year to fill the Senate seat held by Democrat  Ted Kennedy 
for more than 40 years. Brown defeated  Martha Coakley , for whom
Obama campaigned two days before the election.  Obama yesterday criticized Republicans for not working with
Democrats to pass policies to help the country recover from its
worst economic crisis in more than 70 years.  “The Republican leadership made a calculation, a tactical
decision,” he said. “They basically sat on the sidelines. They
didn’t lift a finger to help.”  Republican Policies  If Republicans were to gain power, Obama said, the country
would return to the same policies that led to the economic
crisis.  “It is up to us to tell them we do not want what they are
selling,” he said. “The worst thing we can do is go back to
the very same policies that caused this mess in the first
place,” Obama said.  Obama’s speech was twice interrupted by protesters shouting
“fight global AIDS.”  “I would suggest to the people who are concerned about
AIDS, think what the Republican leadership would do,” Obama
responded.  Obama said Patrick was the kind of governor who didn’t look
at polls but instead made the “tough decisions” that will
ensure Massachusetts is prosperous in the future.  Obama is scheduled to campaign in Ohio today with his wife,
Michelle.  Since the start of August, Obama has crisscrossed the
country campaigning for Democratic candidates, helping to raise
more than $14.7 million. This week he’ll visit Washington,
Oregon, California, Nevada and Minnesota for rallies and
fundraisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Boston at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 