-- Mol to Pay 1.05% of Sales, Magyar Telekom 6.5% Under Temporary Tax Plan
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-10-16T11:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/mol-to-pay-1-05-of-sales-magyar-telekom-6-5-under-temporary-tax-plan.html
Hungary will levy planned temporary
taxes on telecommunications, energy and retail companies based
on a percentage of their revenues, a parliamentary bill  shows .  The government is seeking to bridge a budget gap with the
three-year levy on industry, and fund lower taxes for families.
Energy companies such as  Mol Nyrt.  will pay 1.05 percent of
sales, according to the bill posted on Parliament’s website
today. Companies such as  Magyar Telekom Nyrt. , controlled by
 Deutsche Telekom AG , will pay 6.5 percent, it said.  Hungary is taxing industry to meet  budget deficit  targets
this year and next, and avoid raising charges on families and
individuals after five years of budget cuts. Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  was elected in April on a pledge to end austerity
measures. The industry taxes, together with a previously
announced bank levy, will raise 343 billion forint ($1.8
billion) a year, or 1.4 percent of economic output, from 2010.  The biggest telecommunications companies, with sales of
more than 5 billion forint, will pay 6.5 percent of revenue,
according to the bill. Those with sales from 500 million forint
to 5 billion forint will pay 4 percent, and those with a figure
below 500 million forint will be charged 2 percent. The tax may
force Magyar Telekom to cut its dividend or reduce investments,
Chief Executive Officer  Christopher Mattheisen  said yesterday.  Retail chains with revenues exceeding 100 billion forint
will pay a 2.5 percent rate, while those with sales of 30
billion forint to 100 billion forint will pay 0.4 percent.  Orban announced the taxes Oct. 13. The bill was submitted
by Janos Lazar, the parliamentary leader of Fidesz, the ruling
party headed by Orban, and  Antal Rogan , chairman of Parliament’s
Economic Committee. Lawmakers, two-thirds of whom are from the
ruling party, may approve the tax as soon as Oct. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  