-- Trichet Says Raising ECB's Inflation Target Would Have `Disastrous' Effect
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-10-16T14:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/trichet-says-euro-region-needs-more-ambitious-rules-to-keep-fiscal-rigor.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  called for “more ambitious” rules to force
member countries to maintain fiscal discipline and punish those
who don’t.  “For the euro area, more ambitious reforms are needed to
ensure the smooth functioning of monetary union,” Trichet said
in a speech at the World Policy Conference in Marrakech. There
must be “greater automaticity, accelerated timelines and
reduced room for discretion in procedures.”  European Union finance ministers meet in Luxembourg on Oct.
18 to consider European Commission proposals to fix budget
management and avoid runaway deficits that led to Greece’s near-
default this year. France is balking at calls for the faster
imposition of sanctions on deficit-ridden governments, putting
it at odds with Germany and the ECB over how to prevent a repeat
of the debt crisis.  In a replay of debates over European economic management in
the 1990s, France insisted on leaving sanctions in the hands of
elected national officials, while Germany and the ECB want to
make them virtually automatic.  “All deadlines under the excessive deficit procedure should
be significantly reduced: sanctions should be applied quasi-
automatically on the basis of clearly defined criteria, without
scope for discretion for exceptional circumstances or waivers,”
Trichet said. “The debt reduction should in some cases be more
ambitious than proposed by the commission,” Trichet said.  No Punishment  No country has been fined in the euro’s almost 12-year
history for overstepping the deficit limit of 3 percent of gross
domestic product. Greece, the trigger for this year’s debt
shock,
has violated the threshold during its entire membership and had
a shortfall of 13.6 percent of GDP last year.  Governance would also be helped by “sanctions at earlier
stages in the macroeconomic surveillance framework, greater
independence and quality controls in underlying analysis and
stronger powers in case of questions over statistics,” Trichet
said.  Trichet said that he’s “completely against” raising the
ECB’s 2 percent inflation goal, saying such a move who would
have “disastrous consequences.” The remarks came in response
to statements by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  that U.S.
inflation remains too low. The remarks sparked speculation that
Bernanke may consider instituting an inflation target in an
effort to boost prices and stave off deflation.  ‘Modest’ Recovery  Europe’s  economic recovery  remains “modest” and Trichet
said he was “prudent” about the strength of the rebound. The
global financial crisis that led to Europe’s worst recession in
60 years shows the need for both structural reform in Europe to
make economies more efficient and a global effort to come up
with common financial regulation, he said.  “We insist on the necessity of continuing structural
reforms that permit Europe to raise its growth potential,”
Trichet said. “The growth potential is too low. There is
resistance. We are asking all countries to be as active as
possible because, however difficult they are in the short term,
the reforms are what give the growth” that is desired in the
long term.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Mark Deen  at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net 
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  