-- Saudi Arabian Shares Fall, Weighed on by Increase in Bank Loan Provisions
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-10-16T13:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/saudi-arabian-shares-fall-weighed-on-by-increase-in-bank-loan-provisions.html
Saudi Arabian shares fell for a
fourth day after banks in the kingdom reported lower third-
quarter profit on provisions for bad loans.  The  Tadawul All Share Index  lost 1.2 percent at 6,226.78,
the lowest since Sept. 1, in Riyadh.  Saudi Basic Industries
Corp. , the world’s largest petrochemical maker, National
Industrialization Co., Arab National Bank and Saudi British Bank
led the market lower.  “People are a bit concerned about the banks,” said  Anas Kassem , an investment analyst at Ajeej Capital in Riyadh. “Most
of us had thought that the provisioning cycle had pretty much
come to an end.”  Saudi banks have been hurt since the onset of the global
credit crisis as provisions for bad loans rose and lending
slowed after the Saad and Algosaibi business groups defaulted on
at least $15.7 billion of loans.  Saudi British Bank , the lender
40 percent owned by HSBC Holdings Plc, Al-Rajhi Bank, Saudi
Arabia’s biggest by market value, and Arab National Bank were
among 10 out of the 11 banks in the nation that reported a
decline in third-quarter profit last week.  The country’s banks will be required to make 100 percent
provisions against non-performing loans, central bank Governor
 Muhammad al-Jasser  said in an interview shown on Dubai-based Al
Arabiya television on Oct. 12.  Saudi British Bank  dropped 0.5 percent to 41.8 riyals, a
three-month low. Arab National Bank lost 3.4 percent to 36.6
riyals. Sabic slipped 3.1 percent to 87 riyals, the lowest since
Sept. 1.  Petrochemical maker National Industrialization fell 4.1
percent to 30.4 riyals, the steepest drop since June. Two units
of the company today agreed to build a 4 billion-riyal ($1.1
billion) plastics plant.  Methanol Chemicals Co. , a producer of methanol derivatives
also known as Chemanol, dropped 9.9 percent to 14.15 riyals
after reporting a third-quarter loss.  Saudi Arabia’s is the only Gulf Arab benchmark tracked by
Bloomberg that trades on a Saturday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  