-- HSBC Sued by Taiwanese Banks Over $500 Million Pang PEMGroup Fraud Losses
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-10-16T02:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/hsbc-sued-by-taiwanese-banks-over-500-million-pang-pemgroup-fraud-losses.html
HSBC Holdings Plc  was sued by five
Taiwanese banks, including  Hua Nan Financial Holdings Co. , which
claim HSBC aided the fraud by deceased financier  Danny Pang ’s
PEMGroup that caused them more than $500 million in damages.  The Taiwanese banks said in a complaint filed yesterday in
state court in Los Angeles that HSBC Bank USA lied to investors
about how long the bank had serviced PEMGroup’s investments and
falsely represented that PEMGroup’s prior investment products
had been performing in conformity with their offering memoranda.  Hua Nan Commercial Bank claimed $191 million in losses;
Hua Nan Investment Trust, $48 million; Cosmos Bank Taiwan,
$45 million; EnTie Commercial Bank, $50 million; Bank SinoPac,
$122 million; and Taichung Commercial Bank, $70 million,
according to the complaint.  The court-appointed receiver for Irvine, California-based
Private Equity Management Group Inc. sued HSBC in May, alleging
the bank had helped Pang defraud Taiwanese investors. A judge
last year froze the assets of PEMGroup and appointed a receiver
after the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission leveled
accusations against Pang and his company.  Pang, 42, committed suicide in September of last year. The
defrauded Taiwanese investors, including eight financial
institutions and about 35 wealthy individuals, had $823 million
invested with PEMGroup, the receiver said last year.  The SEC accused Pang of lying about his credentials,
forging insurance documents and paying existing investors with
funds raised from new ones, while claiming the returns came from
investments in life insurance policies.  Diane Bergan , a spokeswoman for HSBC North America Holdings
Inc., didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail message and an
e-mailed request for comment after regular business hours.  The case is Hua Nan Commercial Bank v. HSBC Bank USA,
BC447478, California Superior Court (Los Angeles County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 