-- U.K. Ministry of Defense Said to Agree on Budget Cut; May Be Less Than 10%
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2010-10-16T11:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/u-k-ministry-of-defense-said-to-agree-to-cuts-in-cameron-austerity-push.html
The U.K.’s Ministry of Defence
reached agreement with Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  on budget cuts before an announcement next week, a
person familiar with the negotiations said.  The person declined to provide details on the spending cuts
or discuss which weapons programs would be affected. The
reduction will be less than the 10 percent the government was
seeking, the  British Broadcasting Corp.  said on its website
today, without saying where it got the information. Replacement
of Trident, the country’s nuclear-submarine deterrent, will be
delayed, the  Financial Times  said.  The settlement ends 22 weeks of wrangling between Defence
Secretary  Liam Fox  and  Osborne ’s Treasury. The ministry was
originally asked to find budget reductions of as much as 20
percent, less than most other government departments.  Osborne  is due to set out details of reductions to most
ministries’ spending on Oct. 20. A day earlier, Prime Minister
 David Cameron  will publish the government’s review of its
strategic defense capability, detailing cuts to weapons programs
to help tackle the  record budget deficit  and redefine military
needs for the post-Cold War era.  The country will delay the replacement of its Trident
nuclear submarines by at least 12 months to save 750 million
pounds ($1.2 billion) over four years, the Financial Times
reported, without saying where it got the information.  Aircraft Carriers  The country’s aircraft carriers are also unlikely to have
any working British jets for as long as eight years because the
Harrier jump-jet will soon be decommissioned, the FT said. The
ships will instead be used for helicopters and conventional
Joint Strike Fighter jets, the newspaper said.  Army chiefs resisted plans to cut 7,000 troops, saying that
could jeopardize operations in Afghanistan, the FT said. The
government may still cut 5,000 soldiers, the newspaper said.  The dispute over the military budget has been the most
public within Cameron’s coalition, with Fox dubbing it a “soap
opera.” Fox told the premier in a letter leaked last month that
deep cuts while Britain is at war in Afghanistan would hurt
soldiers’ morale. Fox later described Cameron as his
“strongest” ally. A spokesman for Cameron declined to comment
on whether an agreement on cuts was reached.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 