-- U.S. Stocks Advance as Google Leads Tech Rally; Banks Tumble
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-16T04:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/u-s-stocks-advance-as-google-leads-tech-rally-banks-tumble.html
U.S. stocks  rose for a second week
as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said more stimulus
may be needed to protect the economic recovery and better-than-
estimated earnings boosted investor confidence.  Hewlett-Packard Co. and Cisco Systems Inc. gained at least
3.9 percent to lead the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to its
highest level in five months as the Fed said it may embark on
another round of monetary easing. Google Inc. rallied 12 percent
after profit topped analysts’ estimates as advertising revenue
increased. A gauge of banks slid the most in two months amid
growing legal scrutiny of foreclosure practices.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1 percent to
1,176.19 this week and reached the highest level since May 3 on
Oct. 13. The Dow rose 56.3 points, or 0.5 percent, to 11,062.78.  “We’re getting earnings data and economic data that
suggest we’re going from a soft spot to a moderate economy,”
said  Michael Strauss , who helps oversee about $26 billion at
Commonfund in Wilton, Connecticut. “And the Fed wants to foster
stronger economic growth so it may try to engineer things to get
a little stronger.”  The S&P 500 has rallied 12 percent since Bernanke said on
Aug. 27 that he had the tools to prevent a new recession, which
he reiterated yesterday at the Boston Fed conference, saying
“further action” may be needed because inflation is too low
and unemployment is too high. Bernanke said yesterday the Fed
may expand asset purchases, while not offering new details on
how the stimulus strategies would be executed.  Earnings Watch  Companies are poised to report the fourth straight
quarterly earnings increase and retail sales climbed more than
forecast in September, rising 0.6 percent, while consumer prices
increased less than projected.  Technology shares jumped 3.9 percent this week, the biggest
gain out of  10 industries  in the S&P 500. Hewlett-Packard, the
world’s largest computer maker, advanced the most in the Dow
with a 4.1 percent gain to $42.82. Cisco Systems, the largest
maker of computer networking equipment, climbed 3.9 percent to
$23.36.  Google surged 12 percent to $601.45, a nine-month high,
after reporting earnings that beat estimates as advertising
revenue bolstered sales to $5.48 billion, exceeding the
consensus estimate of $5.26 billion.  Yahoo! Inc.  rallied 12 percent to $16.25 on speculation
that the second-biggest U.S. search engine after Google may be
sold. Yahoo has been working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
field takeover approaches, according to three people familiar
with the matter.  ‘Quick to React’  “Technology companies were very quick to react to the new
level of lower demand in the economy,” said  Keith Springer ,
president of Sacramento, California-based Springer Financial
Advisors, which manages about $100 million. “They were the
first to reduce their workforce, so any increase in sales now
goes directly to the bottom-line.”  Of the 19 companies in the S&P 500 that reported results
since Oct. 8, 15 have beaten analysts’ per-share earnings
estimates, according to data compiled by  Bloomberg . Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg predict 23 percent growth in third-quarter
profit from a year earlier for S&P 500 companies.  Bank of America Corp., the largest U.S. lender, plunged 9.1
percent to $11.98 for the biggest drop in the  Dow  and the S&P
500 Financials Index fell 2.4 percent. Home seizures reached a
record of 102,134 properties in September and the National
Association of Attorneys General said it will conduct an inquiry
into whether banks used false documentation to justify
foreclosures.  ‘Keep Hurting’  “Real estate is absolutely killing the banks,” Springer
said. “It’s going to keep hurting them going forward because of
declining prices and foreclosures.”  Benchmark indexes also advanced this week as China
announced record currency reserves and exports lifted its trade
surplus to $16.9 billion, reinforcing optimism the country will
continue to lead the global recovery.  The benchmark index for U.S. stock  options  slid for a
second week. The  VIX , as the  Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index  is known, fell 8.1 percent to 19.03 and touched
its lowest level since April during the week. The index, which
measures the cost of using options to protect against  S&P 500 
declines, is down from this year’s peak of 45.79 in May and
below its 20.41 average over its  two-decade history .  The world’s largest payment networks, Visa Inc. and
MasterCard Inc., climbed 4.9 percent to $77.60 and 5 percent to
$233.70, respectively, after JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest
U.S. credit-card issuer, reported a 6.6 percent increase in
credit-card spending.  ‘Positive Trend’  The results at JPMorgan “reinforce the view that the
upcoming earnings releases for Visa and MasterCard should
continue to be solid,” according to Morgan Stanley analyst  Adam Frisch . American Express Co. gained 2.9 percent to $39.09.  “You’re going to consistently see a battle between the
macro forces and the micro forces -- micro being profits, macro
being economic data,” said  Chris Hyzy , the New York-based chief
investment officer at U.S. Trust, which oversees about $188
billion. “Profits are moving forward in a positive trend and
surprising based on global economic factors. And the macro
forces that are causing the markets to be confused are all based
on U.S. economic factors.”  The S&P 500 is valued at 12.3 times estimated profits for
the next year, compared with the 56-year average of about 16.3
times reported earnings, according to data compiled by
 Bloomberg .  ‘Notably Underpriced’  That is “notably underpriced,” according to  Abby Joseph Cohen , the Goldman Sachs Group Inc. strategist known for
predicting the bull market in the 1990s. “When investors feel
more confident in the economic expansion, equities could perform
quite well,” she said in a Bloomberg Television interview on
Oct. 14.  Coca-Cola Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Johnson &
Johnson are among the 112 companies in the S&P 500 scheduled to
release quarterly results next week.  Builders in the U.S. probably started fewer homes in
September, while production rose for a seventh month, evidence
of uneven growth, economists said before reports next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 