-- Typhoon Megi Intensifies, Forecast to Hit Northern Luzon in Philippines
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   P a u l   T i g h e
-- 2010-10-17T09:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-16/typhoon-megi-intensifies-forecast-to-hit-northern-luzon-in-philippines.html
Typhoon Megi intensified in the
Pacific Ocean with winds gusting to as much as 230 kilometers an
hour (121 mph) as it heads to make landfall tomorrow morning in
northern Luzon in the Philippines.  Megi, known in the Philippines as Juan, may “strengthen
further,” said Mario Palafox, senior weather forecaster at the
Philippine Atmospheric,  Geophysical & Astronomical Services
Administration . “We can call it a super typhoon.”  The center of the typhoon was about 390 kilometers (242
miles) east of Cagayan province in northeastern Luzon, with
maximum wind of 195 kilometers per hour near the center and
gustiness of up to 230 kilometers per hour, the administration
said on its 4 p.m. advisory posted on its  website . It is moving
west at 22 kilometers an hour and is forecast to reach Cagayan
tomorrow. Public storm warning signals were raised in 17
provinces, including Isabela, Ilocos Norte, Abra and La Union.  Philippines emergency services are on alert and ready to
carry out preemptive evacuations today of people in regions that
may be hit by the storm, President  Benigno Aquino  said in a
statement posted on his website. “We do not want to unduly
alarm the public, but there is nothing lost by being prepared.”  Food packs and medicines have been prepared in provinces
that may be hit by the typhoon, the  National Disaster
Coordinating Council  said in an advisory posted on its website.
Schools in provinces to be hit by the typhoon will be closed.  National Grid Corp. of the Philippines, which runs the
nation’s high-voltage power transmission network, said it has
activated command centers at its main and regional offices to
take precautions to minimize the impact of the typhoon.  Stronger Winds  Winds may strengthen to 250 kph as the storm nears Luzon,
the country’s most populous island, the U.S. Navy Joint Typhoon
Warning Center said Oct. 15. That would make it a Category 5
storm, the strongest, on the  Saffir-Simpson  Hurricane Wind scale
and capable of “catastrophic damage,” according to the U.S.
National Hurricane Center.  Aquino said local authorities have been instructed to take
down billboards until the typhoon is over as part of efforts to
try to avoid casualties.  Typhoon Conson left 102 people dead in the Philippines in
July and destroyed or damaged more than 70,000 homes, the
National Disaster Coordinating Council  said  in August.  The government has advised fishing boats and small vessels
not to venture out to sea and alerted larger ships against the
risk of waves of as high as 4.5 meters. Megi is forecast to
leave the Philippines on Oct. 19, heading northwest toward
Hainan, China.  Megi is the name of a catfish in South Korea and is related
to the feeling of getting wet, according to the Hong Kong
Observatory, which lists names assigned to storms in the
northwest Pacific. It is the 15th storm of the season.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cecilia Yap  in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Tighe  in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  