-- Fighting Dumb People, Turtles, Power Lines, Woman Rehabs Birds
-- Mike Di Paola
-- 2010-03-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-30/fighting-dumb-people-turtles-power-lines-woman-rehabs-birds.html

          
          
             Suzie Gilbert  is in her kitchen
holding the corpse of a red-tailed hawk, frozen stiff and well-
preserved. An entry wound under a claw and exit wound through
the shoulder evince cause of death: electrocution by power line.  
 “He’s so beautiful,” says Gilbert, 53, cradling the bird
as if it were a sleeping infant, “and now he’s sitting in my
freezer between the peas and the beans. How is that fair?”  
 Gilbert, who has worked in corporate offices and in an
animal hospital, is a federally certified bird rehabilitator. A
tall, lean woman with high cheek bones, a ready smile and a
boyish haircut, she has converted her backyard in Garrison, New
York, an hour north of New York City, into a haven for injured
falcons, owls, crows and any other needy birds.  
 Her aviary-clinics are relatively quiet today. When we
enter one, three young crows flap and swirl around in the tight
quarters (for a second I feel like Tippi Hedren), then settle
down on perches.  
 The crows were grounded by a calcium deficiency that has
left their feathers ragged. Gilbert explains that crows
sometimes pump their young with junk food, just like humans, and
that she’ll have to nurse these through molting season, into
summer. Today the birds’ menu is probably healthier than it
looks: dog food, spaghetti and blueberries on a single plate.  
 Dignified Merlin  
 In another coop, a dignified merlin is perched quietly in
the shadows. Like a lot of the birds that end up in Gilbert’s
backyard, this falcon had a run-in with a glass window, and came
away with a broken shoulder bone. Gilbert has stuck translucent
decals on her windows. Congressman Mike Quigley, an Illinois
Democrat, introduced a bill this month that would require many
new and existing public buildings to use bird-safe materials and
designs.  
 According to the National Wildlife Rehabilitators
Association, about 64,000 birds are treated each year by Gilbert
and other rehabbers. They save about 60 percent of their
patients.  
 She’s unsure what her costs have been since she began eight
years ago, although she recalls “steep start-up costs,” such
as $6,000 for a flight cage, $2,000 for a shed, $3,500 for an
outdoor hawk enclosure and “several thousand for equipment,
medical supplies, drugs, food, et cetera.” In her busiest year
she took in 140 birds; last year she had about 30.  
 Great White Egret  
 Besides windows and power lines, wild birds are up against
autos, diseases and predators. Gilbert tells me of a great white
egret that lost a hallux (back toe) to a snapping turtle, and
was subsequently treated here. She shows me the chicken wire
buried under each aviary to thwart local invaders -- fox and
coyote.  
 “And don’t even get me started on cats,” she warns, but
too late. Woe betide the cat owner who calls her for help with
an injured bird. She’ll save the bird of course, but will also
give the human a practiced and strident lecture. Pet cats, I’m
informed, kill hundreds of millions of birds in the U.S. every
year.  
 Well-meaning people are also a problem at times. She
recalls the folks who brought her a red-tailed hawk that they
thought was so friendly and wanted to keep as a pet.  
 They “were making kissy faces and talking baby talk to
him,” Gilbert said. “I had to tell them that he was about 16
hours away from actually starving to death, and was too weak to
try to kill them, which is what he really wanted to do.”  
 Power Company  
 As for the electrocuted hawk, Gilbert is thinking of
confronting her utility,  Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corp. ,
with the frozen carcass.  
 “If worse comes to worse, I can go down there and knock on
the door to speak to someone and show them the dead bird,” she
says. “I have evidence here.”  
 Power lines can be retrofitted to prevent such tragedies,
and according to the  Avian Power Line Interaction Committee , a
group that works with utilities to prevent bird electrocution
and collisions, it is a fairly simple matter. Retrofitting just
two percent of electrical poles and towers can effectively
safeguard 98 percent of a network.  
 Later I call Central Hudson to ask what they are doing to
keep birds safe. A spokesman explains that they take some steps
-- placing decoys on poles, for example -- but that they very
rarely get complaints about electrocuted birds. I do not warn
them that that might change soon.  
 “The hardest part of rehabbing,” says Gilbert, “is
saying no.” She will never refuse a bird in need when there’s
nowhere else to go. Another difficult moment comes when the bird
she has nursed for days or weeks is ready to be released back
into the wild.  
 Kids to College  
 On those good days, Gilbert feels conflicted. “You don’t
know what’s going to happen, like sending your kids to college.
Every single one of them has personality.”  
 Gilbert covers most of the expenses of rehabbing herself.
To help out, donate through her Web site at suziegilbert.com.
Her 2009 book, “Flyaway: How a Wild Bird Rehabber Sought
Adventure and Found Her Wings,” is published by  HarperCollins 
and comes out in paperback this month.  
 ( Mike Di Paola  writes about preservation and the
environment for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A herring gull's indoor bath in Garrison, NY.  The National Wildlife Rehabilitators Association estimates that some 64,000 injured and sick birds are taken in every year by rehabbers across the U.S. Photographer: Suzie Gilbert via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Suzie Gilbert, bird rehabber, outside one of her aviary-clinics in Garrison, NY.  Gilbert has been rescuing and nursing birds back to health for the past eight years.  Photographer: Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A great white egret. The bird had lost its hallux (back toe) after an altercation with a snapping turtle. Photographer: Suzie Gilbert via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A red-tailed hawk.  Bird rehabber Suzie Gilbert says the bird was near starvation when she took him in.  Photographer: Suzie Gilbert via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A crow in recovery at the avian clinic. Bird rehabber Suzie Gilbert has been rescuing birds and nursing them to health for eight years. Photographer: Mike Di Paola/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
