-- Norilsk Says It Will Consider Buying Back Shares
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2008-02-04T16:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-04/norilsk-says-it-will-consider-buying-back-shares-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel , the world's
largest nickel producer, will consider buying back shares and
will sell its energy assets that the company failed to spin off
into a $7 billion company on Dec. 14.  
 Norilsk will review the buyback proposal ``soon,'' Chief
Executive Officer Denis Morozov told reporters in Moscow today,
without providing a timeframe or a stake the management wants to
acquire. Norilsk will buy stock to create ``additional
 shareholder value ,'' he said.  
 ``It's an anti-takeover defense,'' said  Vladimir Zhukov , a
Moscow-based analyst with Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ``A
buyback will increase the management's power to negotiate with
Rusal.''  
 Aluminum producer United Co. Rusal last week received
antitrust approval to buy a 25 percent stake in Norilsk from
billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov . Rusal said in December the stake
would be the first step in a takeover of  Russia 's largest mining
company. The combination of Rusal and Norilsk would challenge
the world's top five metals and mining companies, lead by
Australia's BHP Billiton Ltd.  
 Rusal, controlled by billionaire Oleg Deripaska, has
already received ``most'' of the seven approvals it needs from
the antitrust authorities and will acquire the Norilsk stake
``soon,'' Morozov said.  
 No Decisions  
 No decisions have been made on the size of the buyback, he
said. Norilsk may spend as much as $5 billion to buy back shares
to fend off Rusal's takeover,  Vedomosti  reported on Jan. 31. The
shares will probably be registered with a Norilsk unit based
outside Russia, allowing the company to accumulate more than 10
percent of voting shares in line with Russian regulations, the
newspaper said.  
 ``Ten percent is a sizable enough stake to be considered a
bargaining chip,'' Zhukov said. The shareholding ``becomes
decisive'' should Norilsk get support from minority shareholders
or billionaire investor  Vladimir Potanin , he said.  
 The buyback will be funded by selling Norilsk's electricity
assets, including OAO OGK-3, Morozov said. The board of
directors approved the sale today, Morozov said, adding the
company hasn't decided how to proceed with the sale. The board
also approved the sale of a 1.7 percent stake in power generator
OGK-5 to  Italy 's  Enel SpA (ENEL)  for about $106 million, Morozov said.  
 Prokhorov stopped Norilsk spinning off a power generation
company worth $7 billion on Dec. 14. He said Rusal should decide
on the spinoff.  
 Board Election  
 Prokhorov is selling the Norilsk stake as he tries to
separate interests held jointly with former business partner
Potanin. Prokhorov will get 11 percent of Rusal and an
unspecified amount in cash for his 25 percent stake.  
 Prokhorov last month accused Norilsk's management of using
the ``company's resources'' to favor Potanin and asked for the
re-election of the board and an improvement in shareholder
rights. Norilsk's board recommended shareholders vote against
the April 8 re-election, Morozov said. Electing a new board
doesn't make sense for just three months, as it has to be re-
elected at the June meeting anyway, he said.  
 Rusal owners Deripaska and  Viktor Vekselberg  and Chief
Executive Officer Alexander Bulygin have been nominated to the
board, along with Prokhorov and Potanin, Morozov said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        