-- China Life Has Biggest Gain in 3 Years on Stock Sale
-- Patricia Cheng
-- 2006-12-18T10:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-12-18/china-life-has-biggest-gain-in-3-years-on-stock-sale-update3-.html

          
          
             China Life Insurance Co. (2628)  and Ping An
Insurance (Group) Co.'s  Hong Kong  shares had their biggest one-
day gain in three years after the nation's biggest insurer won
approval to sell stock in  Shanghai .  
 China  Life's  H shares  jumped 10 percent to a record
HK$22.70, the biggest increase since Dec. 29, 2003. The Beijing-
based company on Dec. 15 won approval from the China Securities
Regulatory Commission to sell yuan-denominated equities, known
as A shares, that are restricted to domestic investors and a
limited number of qualified foreign institutions.  
 ``The A shares are expected to be traded at a premium to H
shares because of scarcity and liquidity in the Shanghai
market,'' said Bob Leung, an analyst at Merrill Lynch & Co.
``That expectation has been driving investors to add H shares
aggressively in the past few days.''  
 China Life's next-biggest rival  Ping An (2318)  Insurance (Group)
Co., also planning a domestic share sale, surged by a record 8.8
percent. Investors unable to buy directly into China's domestic
stock markets, the best performing in Asia in the past six
months, are chasing the Hong Kong shares of Chinese financial
companies that may benefit from their holdings of domestic
stocks and an expected rise in the value of the yuan.  
 ``China Life and Ping An are the best-positioned financial
stocks to ride on the capital market reforms,'' said Leung, who
has a ``buy'' rating on China Life and a price target of
HK$24.60. He estimated that China Life will post at least 12
billion yuan ($1.53 billion) in earnings from its equity
investments for the full year. The insurer had a first-half
profit of 8.97 billion  yuan .  
 Share Sale  
 China Life plans to sell 1.5 billion A shares, an offer
that may raise more than $4 billion based on the current price.
The stock will be available to only 52 qualified overseas
institutional investors.  
 The company will be the first insurance stock to be listed
in China. Its Hong Kong share have more than tripled this year,
surpassing the 73 percent increase of the Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index, which measures the performance of 37 state-
owned companies traded in Hong Kong.  
 The country's insurance companies are benefiting from the
stock market rally in China and Hong Kong as they are allowed to
invest more in domestic and overseas securities. China Life
bought 651.5 million of shares in the initial public offer of
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China in October. The stock of
the nation's biggest bank has since risen 39 percent, handing
China Life a gain of more than HK$770 million.  
 China Life was traded at a price-to-book ratio of 6.82, the
second-highest among insurance stocks in  Asia  after  Australia 's
AMP Ltd., which has a ratio of 6.87. Ping An was traded at 6.10,
the third-most expensive.  
 `Quite Reasonable'  
 ``They are undoubtedly more expensive than other Asian
insurance stocks,'' said Mandy Chan, who helps manage $6 billion
of Asian shares outside  Japan  at ABN Amro Asset Management in
Hong Kong. ``If premiums continue to grow at a high level, say
20 percent a year, assets continue to expand and they continue
to benefit from  capital gains  on investments, the valuation is
still reasonable.''  
 China Life reported earlier today that premium income for
the year's first 11 months rose 16 percent to 172.5 billion yuan.  
 ``The number was good,'' said  Andrew Sullivan , head of
Asian sales trading at Daiwa Securities SMBC Co. in Hong Kong.
``The insurance market is quite young and people should care
about the longer term prospects.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Cheng in Hong Kong at 
 pcheng9@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        