-- Shaw Shares Rise 8.6% on $5.3 Billion China Contract
-- Margot Habiby
-- 2006-12-18T21:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-12-18/shaw-shares-rise-8-6-on-5-3-billion-china-contract-update4-.html

          
          
             Shares of  Shaw Group Inc. , a
construction company for the energy industry, rose 8.6 percent
after it was selected by China as part of a group to build four
nuclear reactors in a project valued at $5.3 billion.  
 Shaw , based in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, is teamed with
Toshiba Corp.'s Westinghouse Electric Co., which will lead the
effort to build the 1.1-gigawatt reactors. Two will be at Sanmen
in China's Zhejiang province and two in Yangjiang in Guangdong,
the U.S. Energy Department said Dec. 16.  
 Shaw, which does about 40 percent of the modifications and
maintenance at U.S. nuclear plants, said it will likely supply
engineering, construction and procurement services to the China
project, the biggest international nuclear reactor contract ever.
Shaw owns 20 percent of Westinghouse, which builds and services
nuclear reactors and was acquired by Japan's Toshiba in October.  
 ``There's an expectation that this is just the beginning of
a broader nuclear expansion plan, specifically in China,''  Steven 
Fisher, an analyst with UBS Securities in New York, said in an
interview. ``There's ongoing interest in what the nuclear
opportunity would be in the United States as well.''  
 Shaw shares rose $2.62 to $33.20 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Volume was about 4 million shares,
more than quadruple the three-month daily average.  
 Future Formula  
 Construction of the reactors will start in early 2007, Shaw
said in a Dec. 16 statement on its Web site. China plans to add
at least 20,000 megawatts of nuclear power to China over the next
15 years, the company said.  
 ``They have a long-term plan for 25 or 30 reactors, and we
certainly have confidence that we will be part of that formula
for the future,''  Chris Sammons , Shaw's vice president of
investor relations, said in a telephone interview today. ``We
believe this is a very positive development for the possibility
of future developments there.''  
 Shaw will add skilled engineers to its workforce in
Massachusetts, New Jersey, North Carolina and Louisiana because
of the new contract, it said. The company didn't specify the
number of jobs that will be created.  
 The four reactors will be Westinghouse-designed AP 1000
units, the Energy Department said its statement. The plants
should start operating by 2013, Westinghouse President  Stephen Tritch  said Dec. 16.  
 Technology Transfer  
 U.S. Energy Secretary  Samuel Bodman  and Mai Kai, head of
China's National Development and Reform Commission, signed the
agreement for the project in Beijing over the weekend during a
five-nation energy summit. The contract ends about two years of
negotiating and lobbying by Westinghouse.  
 Westinghouse agreed to transfer technology to China that
could be used in the construction of more nuclear reactors in
China during the next 15 to 20 years, Bodman said.  
 China's order is part of more than $200 billion forecast to
be spent worldwide on nuclear power by 2030, according to the
Paris-based International Energy Agency, an adviser to 26 of the
world's largest energy users. A surge in oil and natural gas
prices and concern that the carbon dioxide released by burning
fossil fuels leads to global warming are driving the revival.  
 China is the third-biggest nuclear energy user in Asia,
after Japan and South Korea, according to the BP Statistical
Review of World Energy June 2006 report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Aimee Sullivan at 
 asullivan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        