-- AT&T clears final hurdle to $86 billion BellSouth deal
-- 
-- Fri Dec 29, 2006 6:39pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/29/businesspro-bellsouth-fcc-dc-idUSWBT00636120061229

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - AT&T Inc. ( T.N ) on Friday cleared 
the final U.S. regulatory hurdle to acquire local telephone 
carrier BellSouth Corp. BLS.N, bolstering the company's 
position as the top U.S. telephone provider. 

  The Federal Communications Commission voted 4-0 to approve 
the $86 billion deal after AT&T promised to maintain "network 
neutrality" on its broadband platform for two years and not 
impose extra fees to carry certain providers' Internet content.  That provision was praised by the agency's two Democratic 
commissioners and criticized by FCC Chairman Kevin Martin and 
Commissioner Deborah Taylor Tate.  "Today's order does not mean that the commission has 
adopted an additional net neutrality principle," the two 
Republicans said in a joint statement. "We continue to believe 
such a requirement is not necessary and may impede 
infrastructure deployment. Thus, although AT&T may make a 
voluntary business decision, it cannot dictate or bind 
government policy."  The merger was approved several months ago by the Justice 
Department without any conditions.  AT&T's concession on net neutrality was of particular note 
because the company had strenuously objected to any restriction 
on how it charged for services.  A new legislative push to require net neutrality is 
expected in 2007 from Rep. Edward Markey, the top Democrat on 
the House subcommittee on telecommunications. In a statement, 
Markey said the AT&T concession would be an "important 
keystone" for future legislation.  Advocacy group Media Access Project said the conditions 
were an important victory for consumers.  To win FCC approval, AT&T agreed to offer Internet access 
for $10 per month and standalone broadband for $19.95 a month.  AT&T, which dates back more than 125 years to the invention 
of the phone, has been trying to bolster its bottom line 
through acquisitions and expand into the television business as 
profits from traditional phone service have waned.  The company was formed last year when local telephone 
carrier SBC Communications Inc. acquired long-distance and 
business-services provider AT&T Corp., but kept the AT&T name.  Minutes after the FCC approved the deal, AT&T announced it 
closed its acquisition of BellSouth.  Now four of the seven companies spun off from the original 
AT&T in 1984 are back under one roof, with 66.1 million phone 
lines, 58.7 million Cingular Wireless customers and 11.6 
million high-speed Internet customers.  Its closest rival is Verizon Communications Inc. ( VZ.N ) 
with almost 46 million access lines, 56.7 million wireless 
subscribers, and 6.6 million broadband customers. That company 
is also moving into the television business.  Cable provider Comcast Corp. ( CMCSA.O ) has about 11 million 
broadband subscribers and 2.1 million voice customers.  The FCC approval of AT&T's BellSouth deal did not come 
easily. A deadlock among four commissioners and the abstention 
of a fifth due to previous work in the industry prompted AT&T 
to offer concessions late on Thursday.  AT&T agreed to freeze prices and price caps for some 
wholesale rates to give competitors access to its network. The 
freeze will last 48 months, longer than AT&T's initial offer of 
30 months.  Rivals had complained that the initial conditions, offered 
in October, were insufficient and would undermine competition, 
particularly for high-speed Internet service. They said the 
restrictions at the very least should last several years longer 
than proposed.