-- UPDATE 6-Gazprom, Belarus downbeat as late gas talks start
-- 
-- Fri Dec 29, 2006 5:05pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/29/russia-belarus-gas-idUSL2978817720061229

 

  (Adds U.S. State Department comments) 

  By Dmitry Zhdannikov MOSCOW  Dec 29 (Reuters) - Belarus President Alexander
Lukashenko said he would not tolerate Russian blackmail and
vowed never to surrender as talks started in Moscow in a late
attempt to settle a gas row that may disrupt supplies to Europe.  The European Commission and Germany have urged Russia and
ex-Soviet neighbour Belarus to settle their differences quickly
to avoid any chance of disrupting supplies to European consumers
as happened last January in a similar row with Ukraine.  "I cannot say we are feeling more optimistic," said Sergei
Kupriyanov, chief spokesman for state-owned Gazprom ( GAZP.MM ).
Gazprom is seeking a share of Belarus' pipelines and higher gas
prices from 2007.  "Belarus won't bow to Gazprom's blackmail. If they keep
putting pressure on us, we will go down into the bunkers, but we
will not surrender," Lukashenko was quoted by Belarus' state
news agency BelTA.  A Belarus Energy Ministry official told Reuters before a
delegation left Minsk for the talks in Moscow: "The aim is to
sign a contract. We hope to do it before the New Year."
Gazprom's export chief Alexander Medvedev said no deal was
reached on Friday and that talks would resume on Saturday at
0700 GMT.  Russia, with huge energy reserves, supplies a quarter of
Europe's gas to more than 20 countries with about 80 percent of
this going through Ukraine and the rest via Belarus.  Russia has threatened to cut off gas supplies to Belarus,
which lies to its west, at 0700 GMT on Jan. 1. As the dispute
has escalated, Belarus has threatened retaliation by disrupting
supplies crossing its territory to Europe.  The threat was voiced by deputy energy minister Eduard
Tovpenets who was heading the Belarus delegation to Moscow.  The row with Belarus, hitherto a loyal Kremlin ally even as
other ex-Soviet republics sought to move out of Moscow's orbit,
is part of a wider drive by Gazprom to bring its prices in the
former Soviet Union closer to European levels.  Other price disputes with Ukraine and Georgia have been
settled.  JOINT ECONOMIC ZONE  The official in Minsk declined to say whether Minsk was
prepared to offer concessions to Gazprom, which said on Thursday
it would not change its latest offer and wanted Belarus to pay
$105 per 1,000 cubic metres from 2007, up from $46 now.  Minsk argues it should pay much lower prices because Belarus
and Russia are part of a joint economic zone. By comparison,
Gazprom's customers in Europe pay more than $250.  Moscow says Minsk has no right to take action against
supplies to Europe since, unlike Belarus's local pipelines, the
transit links to Europe belong to Gazprom.  Russia was heavily criticised by politicians in the European
Union and the United States after last year's cuts to Ukraine.  In Washington, U.S. State Department deputy spokesman Tom
Casey told reporters energy resources decisions should not be
made on anything other than market forces.  "That's what we'd like to see happen here ... If there were
a cut off of gas supplies to Belarus, I think the only people
that would be harmed by it would be the average people in
Belarus," he said.  Unlike the pro-Western leadership in Ukraine, Lukashenko,
accused in the West of crushing human rights, has expressed
loyalty to the Kremlin.  Relations have deteriorated as a result of what analysts say
is Russian President Vladimir Putin's distaste for Belarus's
Soviet-style economic policy and reluctance to share assets.  Gazprom also often seeks lucrative assets in neighbouring
states and the dispute with Minsk has centred on Beltransgas, a
local pipeline network.  The gas monopoly agreed to value the network close to
Belarus's estimates of $5 billion and asked Minsk to pay $75 per
1,000 cubic metres of gas in cash with the rest being covered by
half of Beltransgas's shares over four years.  But on Thursday the firm said getting half of Beltransgas
was not crucial and it would also accept cash only.
  (Additional reporting by  Andrei Makhovsky  in Minsk)


