-- Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank Sues Credit Suisse, S&P Over Farmington Sales
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2010-11-25T07:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/abu-dhabi-commercial-bank-sues-credit-suisse-s-p-over-farmington-sales.html
Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC,  the
United Arab Emirates’ third-biggest bank by assets, sued  Credit
Suisse Group AG , Standard & Poor’s and others for allegedly
providing misleading information on an investment product.  The lawsuit filed in New York alleged that Credit Suisse
“failed to disclose conflicts of interest and other material
information, and provided misleading information, when
structuring, marketing and selling an investment, known as
Farmington, to ADCB in 2007,” the bank said in an e-mailed
statement today. The lender also alleged that Standard & Poor’s
“provided inaccurate, investment-grade ratings to assets
associated with the Farmington structure.”  Abu Dhabi Commercial made a 560 million-dirham ($153
million) provision in 2007 for losses from investments in the
U.S. subprime mortgage market. The bank also sued Morgan Stanley
& Co., Bank of New York Mellon Corp. and three securities
ratings services for allegedly rating too highly a structured
investment vehicle that collapsed in 2007.  The bank invested in a structured investment vehicle known
as Stanfield Victoria in 2005 and 2006, and the investment
vehicle faced liquidity issues in 2007, according to the
statement today. Abu Dhabi Commercial alleged it was “induced to
enter into an emergency restructuring transaction, Farmington,
based on false and misleading information.”  Shares Gain  Abu Dhabi Commercial  shares rose 2.1 percent to 2.39
dirhams at 10:52 a.m. in Abu Dhabi today. The stock advanced 53
percent this year compared with a 7 percent gain for  the ADX
Banks & Finance Index.   A spokeswoman for Credit Suisse and a spokesman for
Standard & Poor’s weren’t immediately available to comment when
called today.  “This latest action is brought with the aim of protecting
the bank from potential losses,” Abu Dhabi Commercial Chief
Executive Officer  Ala’a Eraiqat  said in the statement. He said
the bank doesn’t expect “a material impact on our earnings as a
result of the disputed exposure” and it didn’t pay out any cash
on the investment to date.  U.A.E. banks are recovering after the financial crisis
slowed lending, hurt investment banking and led to an increase
in bad loans. Abu Dhabi Commercial is owed 6.6 billion dirhams
by state-owned Dubai World, which is seeking to alter terms on
$24.9 billion of debt. The bank is also one of the biggest
lenders to Saudi Arabia’s Saad and Algosaibi business groups,
which defaulted on at least $15.7 billion of loans last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  