-- Deutsche Bank Chief Says Europe Must Defend the Euro, Make Doubters `Pay'
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-11-25T19:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/ackermann-says-europe-must-fight-to-prove-speculators-wrong.html
Deutsche Bank AG  Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  said Europe “must fight” for the euro
and the region and prove those betting against its survival
wrong.  “It’s about sending a message to investors around the
world that Europe will fight for the euro and Europe will fight
for the future of Europe,” Ackermann told reporters at a
conference in Berlin today. “Everyone who thinks they need to
build up a position that contradicts that will need to pay the
price.”  Ireland’s application for European Union financial aid
hasn’t allayed concern the bloc’s sovereign-debt crisis will
spread to Portugal and Spain. The EU and the International
Monetary Fund established a 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) fund
in May after Greece’s near-default.  European Central Bank council member  Axel Weber  said this
week governments can increase the size of the EU-led bailout
fund if necessary to restore confidence in the currency. While
750 billion euros “should be enough to assure the markets,”
the fund could be increased, and would need an additional 140
billion euros in a worst case scenario, an amount that would not
jeopardize the survival of the currency, Weber said.  Ackermann said the fund is probably “sufficient,” though
boosting its size should be examined if necessary. The Deutsche
Bank CEO also criticized the timing of a debate to force private
investors in European debt to share the burden of bailouts.  ‘Unfortunate’ Discussion  “The whole discussion is unfortunate because the signal
was received by the markets in a very negative way and now we
have this turbulence,” he said.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is pushing a plan to force
investors to accept tougher terms on government bond purchases
as part of her call for a permanent crisis-resolution mechanism
for the euro region from 2013. A government paper obtained by
Bloomberg News shows Germany may press buyers of new euro-region
bonds to accept liability clauses starting in 2011, two years
before a revamped crisis-management system kicks in.  Merkel’s drive for investors to foot more of the bill of
future bailouts may have reignited a sovereign debt crisis and
has also sparked criticism from the European Central Bank and
governments in Ireland and Spain.  Ackermann said he’s open to discussing a new crisis
mechanism for after 2013. Any new agreement with bond investors
must include a “collective action clause,” where investors and
the countries would together search for solutions that are
“voluntary and market oriented,” citing past agreements on
emerging market debt as an example.  ‘Problem for Investors’  Such an agreement on existing European sovereign bonds is
“impossible” because they are held by central banks, life
insurers, pension funds and private investors, Ackermann said.
Losses from haircuts on the debt wouldn’t be limited to banks
and would cost normal investors, he said.  “It’s always wrong to talk about a banking problem, it’s a
problem for investors,” many of whom have their savings in
country debt, he said. “We need to get away from the mentality
that this is a banking problem,” he said. Deutsche Bank would
“practically not be affected,” he added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  