-- Magic-Mushroom Reindeer Bored by $1,370 Museum Slumber Parties
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2010-11-25T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/magic-mushroom-reindeer-bored-by-couples-at-1-370-museum-slumber-parties.html
The whiff of the farmyard suffuses
the foyer of Berlin’s  Hamburger Bahnhof  museum, where couples
are lining up to pay 1,000 euros ($1,370) for a night with 12
castrated reindeer, 24 canaries, eight mice and two flies.  Carsten Hoeller ’s intriguing art installation, “Soma,” is
proving popular enough by day, with a steady flow of visitors,
including plenty of parents with children.  By night, the bed that accommodates a maximum of two people
on an exposed platform perched above the reindeer’s enclosure is
fully booked. The only chance for deer and art lovers to
experience a (somewhat pungent) overnight stay now is to win one
in a  lottery . The next draw is on Dec. 13.  Hoeller’s quest is to recreate the mystic, elusive elixir
soma, which -- according to Hindu scriptures -- grants access to
the kingdom of the gods and untold happiness and wealth. With a
doctorate in agricultural science, Hoeller pored over scientific
and religious texts in an attempt to find the origins of soma.  The scientist-turned-artist builds on scholarly theories
that the fly agaric mushroom, stored in refrigerators around the
edge of the enclosure, might be the cherished soma plant. These
resemble fairytale toadstools: red with white spots.  The magic drink, then, is the urine of reindeer who consume
the mushrooms as part of their natural diet. Jars of the end
product are also stored in refrigerators. Fortunately, there’s
no suggestion that anyone is actually going to drink it. (Please
count me out.)  Cheeping Canaries  Hoeller has divided the enclosure in the museum’s main hall
into two halves in imitation of a comparative study in which one
side has taken soma, the other not. Viewers are invited to
compare the cheeping of the canaries, the buzzing of the flies,
the scuttling of the mice and the behavior of the reindeer.  This quirky pseudo-scientific experiment, with its
fairytale element and festive cheer, has something for everyone.
The promise of an immortal existence basking in bliss and
knowledge -- or at least the hallucinogen-induced illusion of it
-- only adds to the appeal.  Yet on a gray Friday afternoon in November, the reindeer
chewed listlessly on straw, unfazed by a stream of onlookers.
The only excitement came when one hauled himself up and ambled
over to the trough, pausing to give a hoof a leisurely lick. The
mice stayed mainly hidden away in their tunnels, declining to
play. Even the canaries were subdued.  If soma is taking effect, it’s more of a sedative than a
stimulant. None of the creatures appeared to be leaping for joy
or buzzing with enlightenment.  The guests who opt to stay the night are probably glad of
that. Their bed is just a couple of meters above the reindeer,
which must make sleep difficult enough without ecstatic
spiritual grunting and chirping from below.  The 1,000 euro fee for the night includes a nocturnal tour
of the museum with its  Joseph Beuys ,  Andy Warhol  and  Bruce Nauman  masterpieces, along with breakfast and a minibar.  “Soma in Berlin” runs through Feb. 6 at the Hamburger
Bahnhof Museum. For more information, go to
 http://www.somainberlin.org .  ( Catherine Hickley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Catherine Hickley  in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 