-- Thai Baht Lowered to ‘Neutral’ at Standard Chartered
-- B y   J a m e s   R e g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2010-11-25T05:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/thai-baht-lowered-to-neutral-at-standard-chartered-as-gdp-growth-slows.html
Standard Chartered Plc lowered its
rating on the baht to “neutral” from “overweight,” saying
slowing economic growth and political risks are likely to damp
capital flows into Thailand.  The U.K.-based lender lowered its end-2010 forecast for the
currency to 30 per dollar from 29.50, and its end-June
projection to 31.50 from 31, according to research published
today. The currency, Asia’s best performer of the year with an
11 percent gain, traded at 30.06 per dollar as of 11:18 a.m. in
Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We still expect the economy to grow reasonably well, but
it is definitely slowing,”  Thomas Harr , Singapore-based head of
Asian foreign-exchange strategy at Standard Chartered, said in a
telephone interview today. “We think there is a risk that more
political concerns will come back in the first half of next year
and we don’t think the Bank of Thailand will allow too much
currency strength from here in the short term. ”  Thailand’s  economy  expanded 6.7 percent from a year earlier
in the third quarter, the slowest growth of 2010, the government
reported this week. Standard Chartered predicts gross domestic
product will shrink in the three months through December and in
the first quarter of 2011, before resuming expansion in the
second quarter, according to the research note written by Harr
and Bangkok-based economist  Usara Wilaipich .  Deadly Protests  Thailand’s parliament is scheduled to vote today on
proposed amendments to the constitution, a key component of
Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva’s plan to reconcile the country
after deadly political protests earlier this year. The nation’s
worst political violence in almost two decades prompted overseas
investors to sell more local stocks than they bought in April
and May, helping to drive the benchmark SET Index of equities
down 4.8 percent over the two-month period.  The benchmark stock index has since jumped 34 percent and
the currency appreciated 8.2 percent as overseas investors
bought $2.35 billion more Thai equities than they sold. The
government last month removed a 15 percent tax exemption for
foreigners on income from domestic bonds to stem fund inflows.  “What was driving the strength of the Thai baht was the
very strong upward surprise in growth, more political calm and
also quite significant tolerance from the Bank of Thailand for
the currency’s strength,” Harr said. “We think all these
factors have changed for the worse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  