-- Air France Atlantic Crash Investigators Are Said to Plan Resuming Search
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-11-25T10:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/air-france-atlantic-crash-investigators-said-to-plan-new-search.html
Investigators probing last year’s
 Air France  plane crash off the coast of Brazil are planning a
new hunt for the missing wreckage and black-box flight
recorders, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  France’s BEA air accident investigation bureau is seeking
approval from new Transport Minister  Thierry Mariani  for a
fourth undersea search before preparing a final report on the
loss of Air France  Flight 447 , said the people, who asked not to
be named because the plan hasn’t been made public.  The investigators have already spent about 30 million euros
($40 million) on the three earlier searches for the  Airbus SAS 
A330, which crashed into the Atlantic on June 1, 2009, en route
from Rio de Janeiro to Paris, killing all 228 people aboard.  While interim findings suggested that unreliable airspeed-
sensor data triggered a series of system failures, the BEA has
said that the chain of events may never be properly explained
unless the cockpit voice and data recorders are found.  Mariani, who replaced  Dominique Bussereau  in a government
reshuffle this month, will meet BEA officials in coming weeks, a
transport ministry spokeswoman said by telephone. BEA spokesman
Alain Guilldou said it was too early to comment on the prospect
of a new search.  In the weeks following the crash, a French nuclear
submarine and U.S. Navy sonar scanned a circular area of about
6,700 square miles for the acoustic pings emitted by the black
boxes, for as long as their batteries were expected to last.  Second and third search operations, which ended in May,
used sonar imaging equipment mounted on submarines and boats to
scour several smaller areas plotted from the location of
floating debris and data on ocean currents.  Airbus spokesman  Stefan Schaffrath  and Air France
spokeswoman  Brigitte Barrand  declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  