-- Airline Rebound Hinges on Growth, Security and Seats, IATA Says
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-11-25T11:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/airline-industry-rebound-hinges-on-growth-security-and-seats-iata-says.html
An economic reversal, external shock
or rush to restore capacity pose the greatest threats to a
rebound in  airline traffic  in 2011, International Air Transport
Association President  Giovanni Bisignani  said in an interview.  International traffic rose 10.1 percent in October compared
with a year earlier, the second straight double-digit expansion,
though growth is returning to a “more normal” pattern as the end
of 2010 approaches, Bisignani said in London.  The economic outlook “is anything but clear” and a gain in
yields or fares that should spur airlines to an $8.9 billion
profit for 2010 may be curbed if carriers add seats too quickly,
he said, while a security incident or other external event could
plunge carriers back into crisis.  IATA  says earnings will drop
to $5.3 billion in 2011 as state cuts weigh on consumer demand.  “We’re out of the woods, we will have two years of profit,
but it’s a very fragile industry with a very weak balance
sheet,” Bisignani said. “If we have an emergency, a volcano or
something like this, with the financial situation of the banks
completely different from five years ago, we’ll be in trouble.”  Passenger traffic grew fastest in the Middle East last
month, rising 18 percent, with North America expanding 12.4,
Europe 9.6 percent and Asia-Pacific 7.3 percent, IATA said.  Demand has increased 8.5 percent over the first 10 months,
compared with a 4 percent boost in capacity. That has pushed up
the average load factor, a measure of seat occupancy, to 78.8
percent and in the process allowed airlines to raise fares.  Yield Pressure  Bisignani forecasts that the gap between demand and
capacity will narrow next year, with traffic up about 6 percent
and seating expanding 5 percent, resulting in gains of no more
than 1 percent in yields, which he says could remain flat.  Mergers between carriers in different continents would help
eliminate surplus seating and make it easier to borrow, said the
executive, who steps down from IATA’s top job next year. Major
deals have so far been limited to carriers in the same country
or region, such as the British Airways Plc-Iberia Lineas Aereas
de Espana SA tie up due to be completed in the next few months.  “We have to handle capacity better and we have to be able
to run this like a normal business, being able to consolidate,”
Bisignani said. “Now consolidation is just regional
consolidation. We would like to have access to capital.”  The airline industry’s current profit margin of about 1
percent and cost of capital of 7 or 8 percent of borrowings
means that it’s also “not very sexy for the investors,” he said.  Cargo traffic rose 14 percent in October compared with a
year earlier and may have reached a “turning point,” Bisignani
said, with volumes ending a four-month decline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  