-- Hamas Leader al-Zahar Says Obama `Wasting Our Time' With Peace Process
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2010-11-25T14:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/hamas-leader-al-zahar-says-obama-wasting-our-time-with-peace-process.html
Senior Hamas leader  Mahmoud al-Zahar 
said the U.S. was “wasting our time” with efforts to forge a
peace deal and that “resistance” was the most effective way
for Palestinians to get Israel to withdraw from the West Bank.  “If there is a real resistance against Israel, then Israel
will leave,” al- Zahar , who co-founded Hamas 23 years ago and
remains one of its two top figures in Gaza, said in an interview
in his Gaza home yesterday. Israel pulled out its soldiers and
dismantled Jewish settlements in Gaza in 2005 “not because of
goodwill,” he said.  Al-Zahar, 66, was the Palestinian Authority’s foreign
minister after the Islamic Hamas movement won legislative
elections in 2006 and formed a joint government with President
 Mahmoud Abbas ’s secular Fatah party. Hamas seized control of
Gaza in 2007, ousting forces loyal to Abbas and leaving him in
control of only the West Bank.  The U.S. has been trying to coax Israel and leaders of the
Palestinian Authority back to peace talks since they stalled
when a 10-month partial Israeli freeze on West Bank settlement
building expired on Sept. 26. Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Abbas agreed in early September to try to reach an
agreement on the framework for a comprehensive peace accord
within a year.  The Obama administration is “just wasting our time and
giving some hints that something can be achieved by this
process,” al-Zahar said.  Al-Zahar and exiled Hamas leaders based in Damascus have
been meeting with Abbas’s representatives on and off for the
last three years in Egyptian-mediated talks aimed at healing the
internal rift and bringing Gaza and the West Bank together again
under one government.  ‘Big Doubt’  Al-Zahar said he is “hoping” that the talks succeed “but
I have a big doubt.”  Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by the U.S.,
European Union and Israel. The group carried out dozens of
suicide bombings during the second Palestinian uprising which
began in 2000, leaving hundreds of Israeli civilians dead.  The group also fired thousands of rockets and mortars at
Israel from Gaza, with Hamas leaders saying Israel’s pullout was
incomplete because soldiers still controlled all crossing points
into the coastal enclave.  “If you are going to put cats in the corner, they have the
right to attack you and if they have the ability to blind you,
they are going to do it because this is self-defense,” al-Zahar
said.  Drone Aircraft  Israel bombed al-Zahar’s home in 2003, killing his son and
injuring him, his wife and daughter. A second son was killed in
an attack by an Israeli drone aircraft in 2008, al-Zahar said.  In December 2008, Israeli troops moved into Gaza in what
Israel said was an operation aimed at ending rocket and mortar
attacks. The fighting left more than 1,100 Palestinians and 13
Israelis dead.  Hamas’s charter calls for the destruction of the Jewish
state. The group’s leaders say they will renounce violence when
Israel withdraws from territory occupied in 1967 and allows
Palestinians to return to areas in Israel from which they fled
in 1948.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Gaza City, through the Jerusalem
newsroom at   jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 