-- Hana Financial May Sell Debt to Finance Acquisition of Korea Exchange Bank
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-11-25T07:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/hana-financial-may-sell-debt-to-fund-4-8-billion-korea-exchange-purchase.html
Hana Financial Group Inc.  may use
debt to finance almost half of a planned purchase of a stake in
Korea Exchange Bank that will cost as much as 5.3 trillion won
($4.7 billion), analysts said.  South Korea’s fourth-largest financial company may borrow
2.2 trillion won through bonds or loans to fund the acquisition,
according to the average estimate of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Hana Financial may also raise 2.62 trillion won
through a dividend from its Hana Bank unit, the survey showed.  Hana Financial will pay 4.7 trillion won, or 14,250 won a
share, in cash for Lone Star Funds’ 51 percent  stake  in the
country’s fifth-largest lender, its biggest acquisition. The
takeover, which could include shares held by Export-Import Bank
of Korea, would vault Hana past  Shinhan Financial Group Co.  as
the nation’s third-largest financial services company by assets.  “Hana Bank has the capacity to pay more than 2 trillion
won of dividends to its parent while keeping the required
capital adequacy ratio,” said  Sung Byung Soo , a banking analyst
at Tong Yang Securities Inc. in Seoul. “Even if Hana Financial
tries to fund the remainder with bonds and loans, I don’t see
much trouble in terms of its financial health.”  Hana’s Chairman Kim Seung Yu is scheduled to meet Lone Star
founder  John Grayken  in London today to sign the agreement.  Best Combination  Hana is looking for the “best combination” on how to fund
the purchase and will conclude the funding mix by the end of
February, President  Kim Jong Yeol  told reporters in Seoul today
after announcing the final purchase cost.  “We are considering all possible options including
borrowing, bond sales, rights issues and dividends from Hana
Bank,” Kim said. “But one thing for sure is that we won’t
pursue any method that can dilute existing shareholder value.”  Hana aims to close the deal by the end of March and will
run Korea Exchange Bank independently as a unit while it studies
a long-term development plan for the bank, the president said.  State-run Export-Import Bank owns 6.25 percent of Korea
Exchange Bank and has an option to sell its holding to a buyer
who acquires a controlling stake at the same price as that
offered to Lone Star. The lender, known as Kexim, hasn’t decided
whether to offload its shares to Hana Financial, said a
spokesman who declined to be identified.  Two of the five analysts surveyed said Hana may sell stock
in a rights offer to help pay for the purchase. The sale may
raise 1.25 trillion won, according to their average estimate.  Investors’ Endorsement  Stock and bond investors have endorsed the purchase, with
the  shares  jumping 7.3 percent to a 14-month high yesterday.
They fell 1.8 percent to 39,000 won at the 3 p.m. close in Seoul
today, ending an eight-day winning streak. Korea Exchange Bank
rose 0.4 percent to 12,300 won.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Hana Financial’s
4.53 percent, three-year bond narrowed to 44 basis points
yesterday from 47 basis points on Nov. 1, according to Korea
Bond Pricing. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “Hana Financial’s risk premium won’t widen much even if it
sells, for example, about 1 trillion won of bonds to fund the
stake purchase,” said Lee Soo Jung, a credit analyst at SK
Securities Co. “Investor demand for top-rated notes remains
robust.”  Moody’s Investors Service is less optimistic, today putting
Hana Bank’s credit ratings on review for possible downgrade,
citing the “huge financing burden of the acquisition on its
creditworthiness.” Moody’s rates Hana Bank’s long-term foreign
currency debt A1, the fifth-highest investment grade.  Hana Bank’s Burden  Hana Bank “will likely have to play a substantial role in
supporting the burden of its parent’s acquisition, potentially
through a capital reduction and in terms of greater future
amounts of dividends to the parent,” Moody’s Vice President
 Beatrice Woo  wrote in a report.  Hana Financial and its subsidiaries have 9 trillion won of
debt coming due next year,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  The purchase may boost Hana’s assets to 316 trillion won
from 200 trillion won, according to data from the companies as
of Sept. 30. That’s still less than Woori Finance Holdings Co.’s
332 trillion won and  KB Financial Group Inc. ’s 330 trillion won.  “The combination of domestic-oriented Hana’s business with
KEB’s strong overseas network should help diversify their
businesses and strengthen earnings power,” said  Chang In Whan ,
president of KTB Asset Management Co., which manages the
equivalent of $6.3 billion in Seoul.  Hana trumped  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. ,
which today said it put on hold its evaluation of KEB’s finances.  Four-Year Effort  Lone Star, the U.S. buyout fund controlled by Grayken,
bought Korea Exchange Bank in 2003 and has been trying to sell
it for more than four years.  In dollar terms, the deal values Korea Exchange Bank about
21 percent below a proposed transaction with Kookmin Bank that
was scrapped in November 2006 as regulators investigated the
circumstances of Lone Star’s purchase. The Korean won has
dropped 19 percent in the past four years, and Korea Exchange
Bank shares have slipped more than 2 percent.  Since 2007, Lone Star has recouped 1.87 trillion won, or 87
percent of its total investment in the Korean lender, after tax
through dividends and a block sale of shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  