-- Apax Buys Advantage Sales in Deal Said to Be Worth $1.8 Billion
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-11-25T20:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/apax-buys-advantage-sales-in-deal-said-to-be-worth-1-8-billion.html
Apax Partners LLP agreed to acquire
a majority interest in Advantage Sales & Marketing Inc. from
private-equity firm J.W. Childs Associates LP and  Bank of
America Corp. , Apax and Advantage said in statements today.  The two companies didn’t disclose terms of the deal.
A person familiar with the transaction said earlier it was
valued at $1.8 billion. The sale will result in a threefold
profit for Irvine, California-based ASM’s current owners, the
person said.  Advantage Sales has 2010 revenue of about $1 billion, said
the company, which provides sales, marketing and merchandising
services to suppliers and producers of consumer packaged goods,
including  Unilever  Plc and  Johnson & Johnson . London-based Apax
Partners’ funds advise and manage about $40 billion globally.  “Apax is the ideal partner for our company given their
deep expertise in retail and consumer products,”  Sonny King ,
ASM’s chairman and chief executive officer, said in the
statements.  Private-equity firms are resuming investments after the
financial crisis brought dealmaking to a near-halt for two
years. The firms have led about $210 billion of takeovers this
year, more than double the amount in the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The purchase is the
seventh-biggest acquisition involving Apax, Bloomberg data show.  A group led by KKR & Co. today announced an agreement to
acquire Del Monte Foods Co. in a $4 billion transaction.  Merrill Lynch & Co.’s buyout unit and Boston-based J.W.
Childs agreed in March 2006 to acquire a majority ownership
interest in Advantage Sales from Washington-based Allied Capital
Corp. in a transaction valued at about $1.05 billion. Merrill
Lynch is now a unit of Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America, and its buyout fund is called BAML Capital Partners.  LBO Fund  Private-equity firms like Apax pool money from investors to
take over companies, financing the purchases mostly with debt,
with the intention of selling them later for a profit.  Apax oversees an 11.2 billion-euro ($15 billion) leveraged
buyout fund it raised in 2007. In March, the London-based firm
sold clothing maker  Tommy Hilfiger  to Phillips-Van Heusen Corp.
in a transaction valuing the American clothier at 2.2 billion
euros ($3 billion). The firm more than quintupled its original
investment in four years.  The purchase of Advantage Sales, subject to customary
approvals, is expected to close by the end of this year, the
companies said.  Sawaya Segalas  & Co., a New York investment-banking firm,
advised Apax and Advantage on the transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 