-- Apax Said Close to $1.8 Billion Purchase of Advantage
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-11-25T17:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/apax-said-near-1-8-billion-takeover-of-advantage-sales-from-buyout-firm.html
Apax Partners LLP is close to buying
Advantage Sales & Marketing Inc. from private-equity firm J.W.
Childs Associates LP and  Bank of America Corp.  for $1.8 billion,
according to a person familiar with the transaction.  An announcement may come as early as today, according to
the person, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. The sale, which will result in a threefold profit for
its current owners, will close by Dec. 31, said the person.  Advantage Sales, whose customers include  Unilever  and
 Johnson & Johnson , generated earnings before tax, interest and
amortization of $180 million this year, the person said. The
purchase will be the seventh-biggest acquisition involving
London-based Apax, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Private equity firms are resuming investments after the
financial crisis brought dealmaking to a near-halt for two
years. The firms have led $205 billion of takeovers this year,
more than double the amount in the same period last year,
according to Bloomberg data.  Ben Harding , a spokesman for Apax in London, declined to
comment.  Selena Morris , a spokeswoman for Bank of America, and
spokespeople for Boston-based J.W. Childs couldn’t immediately
be reached for comments after business hours.  Advantage Sales helps market products, process orders and
display goods on store shelves, according to its  website . Its
more than 1,200 clients have included Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s
Sam’s Club, PepsiCo Inc. and Del Monte Foods Co., Advantage
Sales said.  Allied Capital  Private equity firms have announced about $44 billion of
takeovers in the U.S. retail and consumer industries this year,
four times the value in the year-earlier period, according to
Bloomberg data. TPG Capital and Leonard Green & Partners agreed
this week to buy retailer J. Crew Group Inc. in a transaction
valued at about $3 billion.  Apax would become Irvine, California-based Advantage Sales’
third private-equity owner in five years. Merrill Lynch & Co.’s
buyout unit and J.W. Childs agreed in March 2006 to acquire a
majority ownership interest in the company from Washington-based
Allied Capital Corp. in a transaction valued at about $1.05
billion. Merrill Lynch is now a unit of Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America.  Private equity firms like Apax pool money from investors to
take over companies, financing the purchases mostly with debt,
with the intention of selling them later for a profit.  Apax oversees an 11.2 billion-euro ($15 billion) leveraged
buyout fund it raised in 2007. In March, the London-based firm
sold clothing maker  Tommy Hilfiger  to Phillips-Van Heusen Corp.
in a transaction valuing the American clothier at 2.2 billion
euros. The firm more than quintupled its original investment in
four years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 