-- Architects of GM's IPO Sought to Limit Windfall for Wall Street
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2010-11-25T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/architects-of-gm-s-ipo-sought-to-limit-windfall-for-wall-street.html
Want to underwrite one of the
largest initial public offerings in history? Chop your usual fee
by three-fourths and commit to limiting Wall Street’s windfall.  That was the deal David Miller and  Tim Massad , the
unheralded government architects behind the General Motors Co.
stock offering, gave investment banks interested in handling the
deal. When the two  U.S. Treasury  officials made their
expectations clear, “we could kind of hear their jaws drop over
the phone,” said Massad, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
Nov. 29 issue.  Massad, acting assistant secretary for financial stability,
and Miller, chief investment officer for the Troubled Asset
Relief Program, were President  Barack Obama ’s dealmakers on the
Nov. 17 sale of GM stock, along with two Obama aides --
manufacturing czar  Ron Bloom  and economic adviser  Brian Deese .  The IPO, led by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley,
was a nail-biter for Massad and Miller, who also manage the
government’s bank and insurance company investments.  “You want the deal to go well” without looking overly
optimistic in pricing the shares, Miller said. “At the same
time, we don’t want it to go up way too much” because that
would mean taxpayers left money on the table on the first day of
trading.  GM’s shares, initially priced at $33, rose 3.6 percent on
Nov. 18, the first day of trading -- exactly the “sweet spot”
Miller and Massad wanted. Of the nearly $20 billion raised,
almost $12 billion went to the U.S.  Treasury officials “passed with flying colors,” said  Jay Ritter , a finance professor at the University of Florida in
Gainesville who studies IPOs.  No Break Even  Taxpayers, however, haven’t broken even on GM. The
government needed to sell its entire stake for about $44 a share
for that to happen. The U.S. would need to sell its remaining 37
percent ownership of GM at $53 a share for taxpayers to be made
whole.  Miller and Massad said they aren’t waiting for the stock to
reach that level.  “We’re not a private equity fund,” Massad said. “We
believe that promoting financial stability means we should exit
as soon as we can.”  Of the $50 billion the government gave GM in 2008 and early
2009 when the auto industry was near collapse, Treasury says it
will recover $9.5 billion through interest, loan repayments, and
preferred stock dividends.  Ultimately, the government may lose $5 billion to $7
billion of the $85 billion auto industry rescue effort,  Steven Rattner , former head of the President’s auto task force, said in
a Nov. 17 Bloomberg Radio interview.  Banking Fees  Investment banking fees were one of the trickiest parts of
the deal, said  Herb Allison , the former Fannie Mae and Merrill
Lynch executive who led Treasury’s financial stability office
from June 2009 through September 2010.  If the government were too soft on the investment firms,
Wall Street would profit at taxpayer expense. If too strict, the
best firms might walk away. “That was a difficult decision,”
Allison said of Treasury’s demand for a 0.75 percent fee. “I
think it proved to be the right one.”  Massad, 54, is a former corporate lawyer at Cravath, Swaine
& Moore who has worked on hundreds of IPOs, although this is his
first one as the client. He earned undergraduate and law degrees
from Harvard.  Miller, 34, worked on deals in Goldman Sachs Group’s
special situations unit, laying the groundwork for his job
managing TARP’s complex mix of preferred shares, common stock,
warrants, guarantees and dividend agreements. Before going to
Harvard Business School he studied economics at Dartmouth, where
he also minored in film studies.  Auto Stake  The pair’s labors aren’t over yet. They still need to
manage the rest of the government’s auto stake, along with its
holdings in American International Group Inc., Citigroup, and
hundreds of smaller institutions.  “We have responsibility for almost $200 billion of assets
and only one of those, which is very important, is General
Motors,” Miller said. “While it would have been nice to spend
the day watching and feeling good about it, there was other
business to attend to.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  