-- Aristocrat Leisure Shares Tumble in Sydney on Forecast for Lower Earnings
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-11-26T06:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/aristocrat-leisure-shares-tumble-19-in-sydney-after-2010-profit-forecast.html
Aristocrat Leisure Ltd. , the world’s
second-largest maker of slot machines, fell the most in two
years in Sydney trading after saying  earnings  may drop as much
as 57 percent on lower sales and gains by the Australian dollar.  The  stock  dropped 19 percent to A$2.70 at the 4:10 p.m.
market close in Sydney, the biggest decline since October 2008.  Earnings  before items may fall to between A$50 million ($49
million) and A$60 million this year and “growth momentum” in
the company’s main markets is unlikely before 2012, Aristocrat
said in a statement today. In addition to the decline from
operations, the company has to pay $212 million in damages after
losing a lawsuit filed by bondholders.  “The outlook is very subdued and they are basically
writing off 2011,” said  Theo Maas , who helps manage $5 billion
at Arnhem Investment Management in Sydney. “It creates  balance-
sheet  pressure because they still have to pay the bondholders.”  The forecast compares with the company’s 2009 profit of
A$116.4 million.  Standard & Poor’s cut its rating on Aristocrat’s debt to
junk, lowering it one level to BB+, and placed it on review for
a potential further downgrade. High-yield debt, also known as
speculative-grade or junk, is rated below the bottom investment-
grade rating of BBB- at Standard & Poor’s.  Earnings Volatility  “The volatility in Aristocrat’s earnings is higher than
expected for an investment-grade rating,” S&P analyst  Gavin Gunning  said in a statement.  Aristocrat gets three-quarters of  sales  from overseas and
has been hurt by the Australian dollar’s rise to the highest
level against its U.S. counterpart since the end of exchange
controls in 1983. The currency is the second-best performer this
year among 16 major counterparts to the greenback.  Demand in the U.S., the company’s largest market, has
fallen about 15 percent this year, with further declines
expected in 2011 on weaker orders for new machines and lower
fees, Sydney-based  Aristocrat  said today.  The company is accelerating the release of new products in
Australia to stem customer losses in a market it expects to be
unchanged in 2011 from this year.  A “lack of competitive product” in Japan will lead to
lower earnings from the company’s third-largest market,
 Aristocrat  said.  In September, Aristocrat bondholders won $212 million in
damages against the company after a U.S. judge ruled it breached
its obligation to convert notes to shares.  Reno, Nevada-based  International Game Technology  is the
world’s largest maker of slot machines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  