-- Spanish, Irish Bonds Decline on Trading Costs; Stocks Fluctuate
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-11-25T21:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/asia-stocks-commodities-gain-on-u-s-outlook-euro-close-to-two-month-low.html
Irish and Spanish bonds fell after
LCH Clearnet Ltd. increased the cost of trading Ireland’s debt.
 Stocks  in Europe rose and the dollar strengthened to parity
against the Swiss franc.  Spain’s 10-year bond dropped for an eighth day, sending the
yield 11 basis points higher at 4 p.m. in New York. The Irish
yield rose for a third day, adding 18 basis points. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index advanced 0.5 percent, while Brazil’s  Bovespa 
and Canada’s Standard & Poor’s/TSX Index were little changed.
Futures on the S&P 500 Index rose 0.3 percent, with U.S. markets
closed for the Thanksgiving holiday. The Swiss franc weakened as
much as 0.6 percent to 1.0021 per dollar. Oil gained as much as
0.8 percent to $84.53 a barrel.  LCH demanded for the third time this month that clients
place a larger deposit to trade Irish bonds, increasing the
margin requirement to 45 percent from 30 percent. Irish Prime
Minister  Brian Cowen  said yesterday a bailout of 85 billion
euros ($113 billion) has been discussed with the European Union
and the International Monetary Fund. European Central Bank
council member  Axel Weber  said governments can increase the size
of the European Union-led bailout fund if necessary to restore
confidence in the euro.  “Relief in the European bond market on the back of
Ireland’s decision to resort to the EU bailout fund has turned
out to be short-lived,”  Ulrich Wortberg , a fixed-income analyst
at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in Frankfurt, wrote in a
report today. “Risk premiums are heading higher.”  Extra Yield  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Irish debt instead
of benchmark German bunds rose 19 basis points to 6.37 percent,
and the spread on Spanish bonds widened 10 basis points to 245
basis points, after breaching 2.5 percentage points for the
first time since the euro’s debut. The yield on the Portuguese
10-year bond climbed 1 basis point to 7 percent, increasing for
a third day. The yield on the 10-year Italian security rose five
basis points to 4.39 percent after the government’s sale of 8.5
billion euros of six-month Treasury bills.  Real-estate companies led gains in Europe’s  Stoxx 600 , as
Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc surged 13 percent after
saying Simon Property Group Inc. may make a cash offer for the
company. Mining stocks rallied, with Anglo American Plc gaining
2.7 percent and Rio Tinto Group climbing 2.1 percent.  In Canada, the largest stock market in the Americas after
the U.S., energy companies helped lead gains as crude advanced.
The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index advanced 0.3 percent
with eight of 10 industry groups posting gains, while Brazil’s
benchmark Bovespa Index slipped 0.4 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 0.2 percent, advancing for
the first time in three days. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s
biggest carmaker, added 1.1 percent. Billabong International
Ltd., the world’s biggest maker of surfwear, jumped 1.9 percent
in Sydney.  Emerging Markets  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose for a second day,
adding 0.1 percent. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  gained 1.3
percent. The won appreciated 0.4 percent against the dollar,
paring a 1.5 percent loss in the past two days following a North
Korean artillery attack on Nov. 23.  Poland’s zloty weakened 0.5 percent versus the euro after
Fitch Ratings said the government needs to narrow its budget
deficit to prevent “pressure” on the country’s
creditworthiness. The Hungarian forint slipped 0.5 percent per
euro after Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said yesterday that
citizens must move private retirement assets to the state or
lose government pensions.  The Swiss franc fell against all 16 of its most-traded
peers, depreciating 0.6 percent to 1.3364 per euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Sillitoe in London at 
 psillitoe@bloomberg.net  