-- Australia's Siddle Gives Himself `Best Birthday' Gift With Ashes Hat Trick
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-11-25T10:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/australia-s-siddle-gives-himself-best-birthday-gift-with-ashes-hat-trick.html
Peter Siddle  justified his place in
Australia’s cricket team and gave himself a birthday present in
the process with a hat trick against England on the opening day
of the Ashes series.  Siddle, picked ahead of Doug Bollinger as the third fast
bowler in the home attack, took six wickets on his 26th birthday,
including  Alastair Cook ,  Matt Prior  and  Stuart Broad  in
consecutive deliveries, to help Australia dismiss England for
260 in Brisbane.  “I don’t want to be mean to parents and friends who have
given me presents all over the years, but I think that’s
definitely going to be one of the best birthday presents that
I’m ever going to get,” Siddle said at news conference.  Playing in his first Test since January following a stress
fracture in his back, Siddle finished with career-best figures
of 6-54 to answer critics who had questioned the selectors’
decision to pick him ahead of Bollinger in the pace attack.  Siddle swung the opening day Australia’s way as England
fell from 197-4 to 197-7 in three deliveries. He had opener Cook
caught for 67 at first slip by  Shane Watson , then bowled Matt
Prior before trapping Stuart Broad leg-before-wicket, completing
his triple-strike following a video review.  “A great spell of bowling turned the day on its head a
little bit,” said England batsman  Ian Bell , who was at the
other end when Siddle struck. “I tried to pass on something but
it probably wasn’t too good by the looks of it.”  Broad’s Boot  Roared on by a crowd of 35,339 at the Gabba, Siddle said
he’d planned to aim for the top of off stump with his hat-trick
delivery, though was so excited he ran in and bowled as fast as
he could, hitting Broad on the boot with a yorker.  “It was very loud out there and it definitely did pump me
up,” Siddle said. “The execution wasn’t quite there. To get
him on the full, it was a dream ball and one I’ll definitely
remember for a long time.”  It was 11th Test hat trick by an Australian and  38th  in 133
years of elite Test cricket. England’s  Darren Gough  in 1999 was
the last player to achieve the feat in an Ashes encounter.  Siddle, a former junior wood-chopping competitor from
Victoria state, earlier removed  Kevin Pietersen  and  Paul Collingwood  in consecutive overs in the afternoon session after
England had advanced to 117-2. He took his sixth wicket by
trapping  Graeme Swann  lbw for 10.  Pietersen, England’s leading run scorer in Australia four
years ago, was on 43 when he drove at a delivery that took an
outside edge and was caught by Australia captain  Ricky Ponting 
at second slip. Collingwood followed for 4 soon after, edging to
 Marcus North  at third slip.  “It’s just been an amazing day,” said Siddle, who claimed
20 wickets in Australia’s 2-1 defeat to England in the 2009
Ashes series. “It’s obviously good to be back playing again and
do something for the boys out there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Brisbane through the Sydney newsroom
at   dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  