-- Australia's Currency Extends Weekly Decline on Rate Comment; Kiwi Tumbles
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-11-26T17:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/australian-dollar-set-for-weekly-loss-after-stevens-says-rates-appropriate.html
Australia’s dollar touched the
lowest in seven weeks versus its U.S. counterpart, extending a
weekly loss, after central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  said the
nation’s interest rate is appropriate for the “period ahead.”
New Zealand’s dollar also fell for the day and week.  The two South Pacific currencies fell against most other
major counterparts as speculation that Europe’s debt crisis will
worsen and tensions in Korea curbed investors’ appetite for
higher-yielding assets.  Stevens’ statement suggested the Reserve Bank of Australia
“is pretty comfortable with the current level of policy and
will hardly change it,” said  Greg Gibbs , a currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Sydney. “The market
hasn’t got another hike fully priced in until July next year.”  Australia’s currency fell 1.6 percent to 96.48 U.S. cents
at 12:38 p.m. in New York, from 98.08 cents yesterday. It
touched 93.16 cents, the weakest level since Oct. 5. The Aussie
weakened 2.2 percent this week, from 98.66 cents on Nov. 19. The
currency declined 1.1 percent for the day and 1.6 percent for
the week to 81.12 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, dropped 1.3
percent to 75.05 U.S. cents, from 77.87 cents yesterday. It
tumbled 3.6 percent this week, the biggest decrease since the
five days ended Aug. 13. The kiwi fell 0.7 percent for the day
and 3 percent for the week to 63.10 yen.  Stevens said a stronger Aussie was helping contain
inflation pressures and signaled the central bank’s benchmark
interest rate was at an appropriate level for the near term.  ‘Coming Year’  “Over the coming year, we think that inflation will be
pretty close to where it is now, consistent with the target,”
he told the House of Representatives Committee on Economics in
Canberra today.  The RBA has lifted interest rates seven times since October
2009, the latest a quarter-percentage point increase to 4.75
percent on Nov. 2. That compares with rates near zero in the
U.S. and Japan.  Demand for New Zealand’s currency was tempered this week
after Standard & Poor’s revised on Nov. 22 its outlook on the
nation’s foreign-currency sovereign credit rating to negative
from stable.  The Aussie and kiwi extended declines today as the
Financial Times Deutschland reported that euro-area policy
makers are pushing Portugal to seek assistance from a 750
billion-euro ($992 billion) bailout fund to help shield Spain
from debt-crisis contagion. Policy makers succeeded in getting
Ireland to seek a bailout this week.  North Korea’s state-run news agency said planned naval
exercises by South Korea and the U.S. moved the peninsula
“closer to the brink of war.” The U.S. sent the aircraft
carrier USS George Washington to the Yellow Sea off the Korean
coast after North Korea shelled a South Korean island Nov. 23.  The  MSCI World Index  dropped 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  