-- Australian, New Zealand Dollars Decline on Concern China to Tighten Policy
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-11-25T05:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/australian-new-zealand-dollars-decline-on-concern-china-to-tighten-policy.html
The Australian dollar fell versus
the U.S. currency and yen after China’s central bank said it
will strengthen liquidity management and “normalize” monetary
conditions, damping demand for higher-yielding currencies.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars also slid against
most of their major counterparts after People’s Bank of China
adviser Xia Bin said today China should slow credit growth to 15
percent next year to curb excess liquidity. The so-called Aussie
weakened after a Bureau of Statistics report showed a drop in
Australia’s investment in new plant and equipment, which feeds
into the nation’s gross domestic product.  “China is focusing on containing strong inflation rather
than boosting growth,” said  Toshiya Yamauchi , a senior currency
analyst at Ueda Harlow Ltd. in Tokyo. “That’s damping upward
momentum for the Aussie.”  Australia’s currency fell to 97.87 U.S. cents as of 4:01
p.m. in Sydney from 98.17 cents in New York yesterday. The
Aussie reached 97.09 U.S. cents on Nov. 23, the lowest since
Oct. 29. The currency dropped to 81.73 yen from 82 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar slid to 75.83 U.S. cents from 75.99
cents, after touching 75.59, the weakest since Oct. 29. The so-
called kiwi declined to 63.32 yen from 63.48.  China will use quantitative and price tools to manage
liquidity,  Hu Xiaolian , a central bank deputy governor, said in
a statement yesterday. The government has raised interest rates,
increased the reserve requirement for banks and pledged to use
price controls if needed as part of efforts to cool inflation.  China is Australia’s largest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-biggest export market.  Capital Spending  The Aussie slid for the fourth time in five days versus the
yen as a report said investment in new plant and equipment fell
1.1 percent in the third quarter from the second. The report
indicates Australia’s economic growth was less than previously
anticipated in July to September, according to Westpac Banking
Corp., which cut its GDP estimate by half to 0.3 percent.  Capital outlays advanced 6.2 percent from the previous
quarter, compared with the median forecast for a 3.1 percent
gain in a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists.  “I caution a lot of that 6.2 percent increase in capital
expenditure was due to building and infrastructure increasing,
and meanwhile, equipment and machinery were down,”  Sue Trinh , a
senior currency strategist in Hong Kong at Royal Bank of Canada,
said, adding she sees a downside risk to GDP data on Dec. 1.
“You should sell a rally in the Aussie dollar.”  The yield on Australia’s 10-year note rose eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 5.525 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a
fixed payment made to receive floating rates, fell to 3.9225
percent from 3.938 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 