-- Australian Business Investment Rose Twice as Fast as Expected on Miners
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-11-25T02:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/australian-business-investment-rose-twice-as-fast-as-expected-on-miners.html
Australian  business investment  rose
twice as fast as economists had forecast in the third quarter,
with an expansion in offices, warehouses and factories
offsetting a slump in equipment spending.  Capital outlays advanced 6.2 percent from the previous
quarter, compared with the median forecast for a 3.1 percent
gain in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 20 economists, a Bureau of
Statistics report showed today in Sydney. Investment in new
plant and equipment, which feeds into the nation’s gross
domestic product, fell 1.1 percent.  The report indicates economic growth was less than
previously anticipated in July to September, according to
Westpac Banking Corp., which cut its GDP estimate by half to 0.3
percent. A slower expansion rate would suggest little immediate
need for the Reserve Bank of Australia to add to this month’s
interest-rate increase, said economist  Joshua Williamson .  “The data makes the RBA look very pre-emptive,” said
Williamson, a senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney.
“GDP growth could remain around trend until the second quarter
next year, leaving the RBA on hold until early in the second
quarter.”  Australia’s central bank on Nov. 2 ended a five-month pause
in rate increases, boosting borrowing costs by a quarter
percentage point to 4.75 percent.  Dollar Slips  The local dollar declined, trading at 97.86 U.S. cents as
of 1:37 p.m. in Sydney from 98.29 just before the release. The
S&P/ASX 200 index of stocks was up 0.1 percent at 4,591.30.  Australian companies forecast investment of A$123.9 billion
($121 billion) in the year ending June 30, 2011, unchanged from
their estimate three months earlier and 19.5 percent more than
the corresponding forecast last year.  “Rates will still need to go higher from here, albeit not
for some time,”  Katie Dean , head of Australian macroeconomics at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group in Melbourne, wrote in a
report. “A weak third-quarter GDP, while largely historical,
does mean that there is no urgent need for follow-up
tightening,” she added, reiterating her forecast for an increase
in the second quarter of 2011.  Spending on buildings and structures advanced 13.4 percent
in the third quarter, today’s report showed.  Tax Impact  Some companies had signaled plans to slow their investment
growth after the ruling Labor party in May said it would impose
a tax on mining profits.  Following that pressure, Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  in
July reduced the tax to a 30 percent levy on iron ore and coal
profits from predecessor  Kevin Rudd ’s 40 percent tax on all
resources. Independent lawmakers including  Andrew Wilkie , who
hold the balance of power in the lower house, said her current
proposal may still be blocked.  Demand from China for iron ore, coal and energy has spurred
companies such as Chevron Corp. to expand projects. Construction
is underway on Chevron’s A$43 billion liquefied natural gas
Gorgon venture in Western Australia, increasing demand for
skilled workers. BG Group, based in Reading, U.K., said last
month it will begin work on a $15 billion LNG venture in
Queensland, generating 5,000 construction jobs.  The jobless rate was 5.4 percent in October as employers
added workers for an eighth straight month. By contrast, the U.S.
unemployment rate was 9.6 percent.  Rate Campaign  The jobs expansion is among reasons RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  resumed raising rates this month. He has raised the
benchmark lending rate seven times since October 2009.  Australia’s two decades of nearly uninterrupted growth mean
the economy lacks the capacity to expand much faster without
spurring inflation, central bank Deputy Governor  Ric Battellino 
said last week.  “With a large amount of money continuing to flow into the
country over the next couple of years as a result of the
resources boom, the challenge will be to manage the economy in a
way that keeps economic growth on a sustainable path, with
inflation contained,” Battellino said in a speech on Nov. 18.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  