-- Hay Point Coal Capacity May Almost Double in Australia
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-11-25T06:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/australia-s-hay-point-may-almost-double-coal-capacity-on-dudgeon-terminals.html
Australia’s Hay Point port, the
world’s biggest export harbor for coal, may almost double its
shipping capacity after the development of two terminals at the
Dudgeon Point site, North Queensland Bulk Ports Corp. says.  The terminals may have a total capacity of 120 million
metric tons a year, North Queensland Bulk Ports Chief Executive
Officer  Brad Fish  said in an interview today. Construction may
start as early as 2014, he said. Dudgeon Point is about 4
kilometers (2.5 miles) north of the existing facilities, which
are 1,000 kilometers north of Queensland’s capital, Brisbane.  Xstrata Plc , Rio Tinto Group and Peabody Energy Corp. are
among producers that export coal from Hay Point port, which has
two terminals and the capacity to ship 129 million tons a year.
Adani Group of India and DBCT Management in July won preferred
status to develop the Dudgeon Point site.  “What we believe, and it’s still to be confirmed, is there
will be something like 120 million tons of available capacity”
at Dudgeon Point, Fish said from Brisbane. “There’s definitely
demand out there. We’re trying to stay ahead of the game.”  The Hay Point port shipped 99.5 million tons and handled
1,121 vessels in the 12 months ended June 30, according to the
North Queensland Bulk Ports  website . BHP Billiton-Mitsubishi
Alliance, or BMA as it’s known, operates one of the terminals
and DBCT Management the other.  BMA Expansion  BMA is proposing a staged expansion of its terminal at Hay
Point to 75 million tons from 44 million tons now, a notice on
the  website  of Australia’s Department of Sustainability,
Environment, Water, Population and Communities shows.  The DBCT Management operated Dalrymple Bay terminal, which
ships 80 percent of its coal to steelmakers, has four berths and
the capacity to export 85 million tons a year.  Adani plans to develop the A$6.9 billion ($6.8 billion)
Carmichael coal project in Queensland’s Galilee Basin, which may
produce as much as 60 million tons a year and export through the
port’s of Hay Point and Abbot Point.  Initial output of 2 million tons per year from Carmichael
is expected in 2014, with production projected to increase to 60
million tons by 2022.  Abbot Point, 25 kilometers north of the Queensland town of
Bowen, has one terminal and is being expanded to 50 million tons
in 2011 from 21 million tons now. Bowen is about 1,100
kilometers north of Brisbane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell in Singapore at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  