-- Bank of Ireland Raises $2 Million as Paintings Sell at Auction: Art Buzz
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2010-11-25T01:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/bank-of-ireland-raises-2-million-as-paintings-sell-at-auction-art-buzz.html
Bank of Ireland Plc  raised 1.5
million euros ($2 million) last night as it began selling off
its art collection in Dublin.  Proceeds from the auction of 145 works won’t be used to
offset the debt of the embattled bank. Instead, funds raised
from this and any future sales will be added to an existing
community and charitable investment program. Ireland’s largest
bank’s  shares  plunged for a third day yesterday as the
government prepared to inject more capital.  “When the sale was originally conceived, it was a way of
convincing the public the bank was cutting back on inessential
expenses,” Dublin-based dealer  Dominic Milmo-Penny  said in an
interview. “The money should be used to give a few pence back
to the shareholders. But this is Ireland.”  Other banks may follow with art sales, even after prices of
some contemporary Irish artists dropped by more than 50 percent
since the financial crisis. Earlier yesterday, as talks on an 85
billion-euro bailout package neared conclusion, Ireland set out
a four-year recovery plan of spending cuts and tax rises.  The Bank of Ireland art sale was held by  James Adam & Sons
Ltd.  in a crowded Great Room at the Shelbourne Hotel, where the
Irish constitution was drafted in 1922. The total with fees beat
a low estimate of 900,000 euros, based on hammer prices. All but
one of the lots found buyers, said Adam’s.  The top price was the 64,900 euros paid in the room for the
1910 Paul Henry landscape “Clouds at Sunset,” valued at 30,000
euros to 50,000 euros. A 1940s “Self-Portrait Wearing a Hat”
by Sean Keating fetched 37,760 euros.  ‘Celtic Tiger’  Demand for Ireland’s art has declined along with the wealth
of its real-estate millionaires. In 2006, during the boom
“Celtic Tiger” years, Adam’s sold a 1980s Louis le Brocquy oil
of  Samuel Beckett ’s head for 310,000 euros. Last night, le
Brocquy’s “Study Towards an Image of  James Joyce ” fetched
59,000 euros.  “I’d be surprised if we can get more than one other decent
auction out of the collection,” James O’Halloran, Adam’s
managing director, said in an interview. “We’ll have to think
about what we can do with the cheaper contemporary items,” said
O’Halloran, who put a total value of about 2 million euros on
the bank’s art.  The Bank of Ireland collection, begun in the 1970s
primarily to support emerging local artists, has about 2,000
works. Further government capital injections may make the bank
the fifth lender to fall under majority state control in less
than two years.  Vintage Apple  The day before, a less traditional kind of collectable was
attracting attention at a sale in London. An example of  Apple
Inc.’s  first personal computer was estimated to sell for between
100,000 pounds ($157,850) and 150,000 pounds at  Christie’s
International  on Nov. 23.  Entered by a North American collector, the Apple-1 was
offered with its original 1976 shipping box and a typed letter
from company founder  Steve Jobs , who dispatched the computers
from his parents’ garage. They were priced at $666.66 and
consisted of a motherboard without a casing, keyboard or
monitor. Only about 200 were made, said Christie’s.  “This is the first time a major auction house has offered
an Apple-1 for sale,” Julian Wilson of Christie’s said.
“Though items do appear at specialist fairs and on  EBay , the
collecting market for early computing is still in its infancy.”  The computer sold for 133,250 pounds to the Italian private
collector,  Marco Boglione , whose brother was bidding in the
room. Apple co-founder  Steve Wozniak , who designed the Apple-1,
was also at the auction, Christie’s said.  The same seller also entered an “ENIGMA” machine, the
cipher device used by the German military in World War II, which
sold for 67,250 pounds.  Geneva Gagosian  Gagosian Gallery , the world’s biggest commercial art
dealership, has opened a branch in Geneva at 19 place de
Longemalle with a show called “Giacometti in Switzerland.”  The gallery is the 10th that  Larry Gagosian  has established
since founding the company in Los Angeles in 1979. He has spaces
in the U.S., the U.K., Italy, Greece and France.  Last month, the dealer, 65, was awarded the French Legion
d’Honneur during a private view at his new space in Paris. He
also topped Art Review’s Power 100 list.  Giacometti New York  Giacometti’s years spent working in France are the focus of
the inaugural exhibition at the New York-based dealership  Eykyn
Maclean .  The show features about 100 of the artist’s sculptures,
paintings and drawings, mainly produced in Paris from 1927 to
1966. The not-for-sale show, accompanied by a book from its
curator Michael Peppiatt, includes a number of pieces from the
artist’s heirs not previously exhibited. It closes on Dec. 18.  ( Scott Reyburn  writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 