-- Banks Lead Way as Japan Companies Cut Mutual Shareholdings to 19-Year Low
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2010-11-26T05:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/banks-lead-way-as-japan-companies-untangle-mutual-shareholdings.html
Japanese companies cut their cross-
shareholdings of allied firms to the lowest level in at least 19
years as banks stepped up sell-offs ahead of stricter global
requirements for capitalization.  Stocks held among corporate allies fell to 4.9 percent of
Japan’s total outstanding shares in the year ended March 31, a
two-point drop from the previous year and the lowest since  Daiwa
Securities Group Inc.  started monitoring the data in 1991,
according to a report from the company’s research unit.  “Cross-shareholdings held by banks are based on
relationships with clients, so it doesn’t mean that the shares
they hold are ones that are likely to grow,” said Keisuke Nitta,
a strategist at  NLI Research Institute  in Tokyo. “A lot of the
superior shares have already been sold off. It means a lot of
unattractive stocks are still on their books.”  Banks are preparing for rules outlined by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision that double their Tier 1
capital requirement. Tier 1 capital includes cash and equities,
so volatile or poorly performing stocks weaken a bank’s ability
to lend. Companies are also trimming their holdings after the
International Accounting Standards Board issued guidance in
December 2009 that the current market value of shareholdings
must be included in financial statements.  “Companies will have to care more about shareholders and
return on equity, which are the things that foreigners are
looking for,” said  Hidehiro Tomioka , who manages about $1.4
billion at the Japanese asset management unit of Canadian-based
financial services firm Manulife Financial.  Bank Holdings Law  Mutual shareholdings among Japan’s banks have been falling
since a 2001 law that limited the amount of stock lenders could
hold on their balance sheets. Six major banks sold 6.5 trillion
yen ($78 billion) of stock in 2002, according to  Kengo Nishiyama ,
a Tokyo-based strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s
biggest brokerage.  The number of companies who have cross-held shares with
banks has at least halved to 43 percent in 2009, from 88 percent
in 1995, Daiwa said in a report. The Daiwa report is based on
research of 3,664 companies on the Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya and
Jasdaq exchanges.  “Scrutiny from investors is growing, and companies will be
increasingly expected to justify their cross-shareholdings,”
wrote  Masaharu Ito , a senior analyst in Tokyo at the Daiwa
Institute of Research in the report.  Corporate Governance  Further reducing cross-shareholdings may lead to better
corporate governance and higher quality capital for banks,
making Japanese shares more attractive to foreign investors,
said Hideaki Miyajima, a commerce professor at Waseda University
in Tokyo.  Foreign ownership of Japanese stocks has risen to 26
percent of total outstanding shares in 2009 from 17.7 percent in
2002, according to Tokyo Stock Exchange data.  Japan’s three largest banks are likely to offload about 2
trillion yen of shareholdings by 2013 to meet Basel III
requirements outlined in September, said Miyajima.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc., the nation’s third-biggest
listed bank, has said it plans to sell 1 trillion yen of shares
in other companies by March 2013. Larger rival  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc.  projects a 300 billion yen cut in the next
three years, the bank said in September.  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s biggest listed bank, intends to
reduce holdings after speaking with its partners, said spokesman
Shinya Matsumoto.  ‘New Phase’  The three banks had a combined 8.15 trillion yen in shares
of other companies as of March 31, according to their financial
statements.  Daiwa said in the report investor pressure to reduce cross-
holdings is intensifying, suggesting a demand for better asset
performance.  “Japan is entering a new phase of unwinding cross-
shareholdings,” Nitta said.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange  opposes  cross-shareholding that
deters foreign investors. The practice doesn’t help safeguard
shareholders’ best interests, said  Hironaga Miyama , senior
executive officer at the bourse.  “Too much cross-holding creates mutual back-scratching,”
Miyama of the Tokyo bourse said.  A reduction of cross-shareholdings will help further
dismantle remnants of 19th century business groups, forcing
companies to pay greater attention to shareholder demands, say
analysts including Nomura’s Nishiyama.  Conglomerates such as  Mitsubishi , Mitsui and Sumitomo,
known as zaibatsu until after World War II, developed Japan’s
economy with subsidiaries owning stakes in each other, while
affiliated banks provided financing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this
story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ; 