-- Bank of India Begins Reviewing Loans to Companies Named in Bribery Probe
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2010-11-26T06:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/bank-of-india-begins-reviewing-loan-to-companies-named-in-probe.html
Bank of India, a state-run lender,
began reviewing loans to companies named by federal
investigators in a bribery and improper credit disbursal probe,
Chairman and Managing Director  Alok Kumar Misra  said.  Authorities Nov. 24 arrested  Ramachandran R. Nair , chief
executive officer of LIC Housing Finance Ltd.,  Rajesh Sharma ,
chairman of Mumbai-based securities firm  Money Matters Financial
Services Ltd.  and executives at Bank of India and two other
lenders. The Central Bureau of Investigation accused Sharma of
conspiring with Nair to bribe state-run lenders’ executives in
exchange for loans for clients and confidential information.  Bank of India and other state-run banks were asked by
Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  to check their “exposures”
to the companies. The probe may slow lending growth at state-run
banks, which account for 77 percent of credit in Asia’s second-
fastest growing major economy. Real estate developers may face
higher borrowing costs with loans being delayed, said  Parikshit Kandpal , a Mumbai-based analyst at Ambit Capital Pvt.  “We are going to see increased scrutiny by banks now,”
said Kandpal. “Real estate, infrastructure and power companies,
all such projects will now be scrutinized, so all will get
impacted.”  R.N. Tayal, a manager at Bank of India, Maninder Singh
Johar, a part-time director at Central Bank of India, Venkoba
Gujjal, deputy general manager, Punjab National Bank, Sanjay
Sharma and  Suresh Gattani  of Money Matters and Naresh Chopra,
secretary investment at the Life Insurance Corp. of India were
the other arrested by the CBI.  Opposed Custody  “All the accused have opposed the custody by the CBI,”
said Anjani Kumar Singh, a lawyer representing Johar. “Our
defense will be based on the investigation report which CBI
files.”  Satish Maneshinde, the lawyer for Money Matters’ Sharma and
Gattani, declined to comment. Sudipto Sil, LIC Housing Finance’s
spokesman, said he didn’t have information on Nair’s lawyer.  Bank of India  fell 6 percent to 393.8 rupees, its lowest in
four months, while Punjab National dropped 3 percent to 1,147.85
rupees at 11:24 a.m. in Mumbai.  Central Bank  plunged 9.3 percent
to 189.85 rupees.  The arrest of Central Bank’s Johar won’t have any
effect on the bank’s operations, said  S. Sridhar , chairman and
managing director of the Mumbai-based lender.  More Diligent  Punjab National Bank will be more diligent while providing
loans to real-estate companies and doesn’t see the federal
bribery probe slowing the pace of lending, Chairman K.R. Kamath
said in a telephone interview today.  Bank of India’s checks found the loan to BGR Energy Systems
Ltd., one of the companies mentioned in the probe, to be
“satisfactory,” said Misra. The credit to  Ashapura Minechem
Ltd.  was over 40 years old, he said.  BGR Energy hasn’t dealt with Money Matters, the company
said in a statement yesterday. Ashapura said it hasn’t borrowed
money from banks in the past two years.  Money Matters was acting as a mediator and facilitator for
corporate loans and credit extended to builders, P. Kandaswamy,
CBI’s inspector general for Mumbai Zone 2 said on Nov. 24. Money
Matters is cooperating with investigating agencies and its board
will meet today to discuss the matter, the company said in a
statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange yesterday.  Property Stocks  A key  property stocks gauge  slumped more than 5 percent for
a second day after the CBI said LIC Housing’s Nair showed
“undue favor” to companies including DB Realty Ltd. and Sunil
Mantri Realty Ltd. The agency also said the bankers showed
“undue favor” to Lavasa Corp. another property developer.  DB Realty Managing Director  Shahid Balwa  said the CBI had
requested documents on a 2 billion rupee ($44 million) loan from
LIC Housing. That “has nothing to do with the current
situation,” he said.  Money Matters  helped arrange a 1.15 billion rupee loan from
LIC Housing this year for Mumbai-based Sunil Mantri Realty,
Chairman Sunil Mantri said. The builder paid Money Matters a
brokerage fee, which ranged from 1 percent to 3 percent, he
said.  Lavasa used Money Matters to help sell a stake in an
affiliate, said President Rajgopal Nogja.  One-Off Probe  “You are giving money based on the appraisals that you
carry out and it depends on the way interest rates are in the
system, the liquidity is in the system,”  Keki Mistry , chief
executive officer of Housing Development Finance Corp. said in
an interview yesterday. This probe is a “one off,” he said.  Life Insurance Corp. is looking into its investment
processes after CBI arrested one of its officials, Chairman T.S.
Vijayan said in an interview with Bloomberg UTV yesterday. The
company will promote V.K. Sharma as chief executive officer,
Vijayan said today.  “Sentiment may be a bit negative on India because of all
these governance issues,” Mistry said. “But I think markets
are mature to distinguish between good companies and bad
companies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Arijit Ghosh at   aghosh@bloomberg.net  