-- Blackburn May Try to Re-Sign Santa Cruz From City, Sun Reports: Roundup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-11-25T10:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/blackburn-may-try-to-re-sign-santa-cruz-from-city-sun-reports-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Santa’s Return?  Blackburn Rovers may bid 4 million pounds ($6.3 million) to
bring striker  Roque Santa Cruz  back to Ewood Park,  the Sun 
reported.  The Paraguayan has had a “miserable” time at Manchester
City since a 17 million-pound move last year, the paper added.  Rovers manager  Sam Allardyce  has money to spend on a
striker after his club was taken over by poultry company Venky’s
(India) Ltd. Santa Cruz is “way down” the pecking order at
Eastlands, the Sun said.  Cole on Warpath  West Ham striker  Carlton Cole  questioned the tactics used
by manager  Avram Grant  in the 3-0 loss at Liverpool last weekend,
the  Daily Mail  said.  “In the first 10 minutes we had lost the game,
psychologically anyway,” Cole was cited as saying. “That was
diabolical, we didn’t even turn up for this game.”  Cole said he was isolated up front, without support,  “I think I had just one cross, apart from that I had
nothing and as a striker that’s starvation, that’s famine,” he
said. “What am I supposed to work on?”  West Ham confirmed the appointment of Wally Downes as
assistant manager after the departure of  Zeljko Petrovic , the
Mail added.  Wilkins Bust-Up  Former Chelsea assistant manager  Ray Wilkins  was sacked two
weeks after a bust-up with Chief Executive Officer  Ron Gourlay ,
the  Daily Express  reported.  They had a “blazing row” after Gourlay criticized the
management team’s use of substitutes, the newspaper said.  The Express added that Wilkins and billionaire owner  Roman Abramovich  argued during the offseason. The coach’s worsening
relationship with the club’s hierarchy may have played a part in
his surprise exit two weeks ago, according to the newspaper.  Sturridge on Move?  Swansea manager  Brendan Rodgers  may try to sign Chelsea
striker  Daniel Sturridge  in the January transfer window, the
 Daily Mirror  reported.  Chelsea rejected an initial loan request from Rodgers, who
used to be a reserve and youth team coach at Stamford Bridge,
but a temporary move could be lined up, the paper added.  Cesc Fitness Battle  Cesc Fabregas  faces a battle to be fit for Arsenal’s match
at Manchester United on Dec. 13,  the Sun  reported.  The Gunners’ captain suffered another hamstring problem
during the 2-0 loss at Braga two days ago and has been told he
may be out three weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 