-- BOC Hong Kong's Cheung Misled Uneducated Buyers on Minibonds, Court Told
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2010-11-25T09:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/boc-hong-kong-s-cheung-misled-uneducated-buyers-on-minibonds-court-told.html
BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd. 
manager Cheung Kwai-kwai told a customer who bought structured
products linked to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. that he would
get back the principal, a prosecutor said.  Cheung sold the products, which lost their value after
Lehman’s 2008 bankruptcy, to retirees and investors who hadn’t
completed primary school, Jonathan Man told Hong Kong’s District
Court on the first day of Cheung’s trial today.  The 47-year-old banker had pleaded not guilty to nine
counts of fraudulently or  recklessly inducing others to invest  a
total of about $787,776 in the securities between 2005 and 2008.
The Hong Kong unit of Bank of China Ltd. was the biggest seller
of so-called Lehman minibonds, $1.8 billion of which were bought
by retail investors in Hong Kong since 2003, according to the
 Hong Kong Monetary Authority .  Cheung told Fong Kwuk-tong, a part-time security guard, the
minibonds were a "very secure" investment and that he would
"definitely receive" the principal amount back in six-and-a-half
years, said Man, a lawyer for the prosecution.  Cheung’s lawyer Peter Duncan declined to comment.  BOC Hong Kong didn’t respond to a request for comment
today. It was one of 16 banks that agreed to a settlement to buy
back the products for at least 60 cents on the dollar. The bank
said in April that Cheung and fellow employee Tai Ching had been
placed on compulsory leave, and that the matter would not have a
material impact on its operations.  Minibond Documents  Prosecution witness Siu So-chun, a 62-year-old retiree who
couldn’t read all the words on the standard oath to be recited
by witnesses before giving testimony, said she couldn’t remember
whether Cheung had shown her any documents when she bought the
minibonds.  “She probably showed me something, but I said ‘I don’t
need to look at that because I trust you,’” Siu testified. “I
have known her for so many years.”  Tai’s trial on the same charge is scheduled to begin on
March 11.  Richard Turnbull , a prosecutor for the Department of
Justice, said a conviction would carry a maximum fine of
HK$1 million ($128,882) and seven years imprisonment.  The case is Hong Kong SAR v. Cheung Kwai Kwai,
DCCC526/2010, in Hong Kong District Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong in Hong Kong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  