-- Boeing Revises Dreamliner Schedule, Grounds Test Fleet After On-Board Fire
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-11-25T12:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/boeing-revises-dreamliner-schedule-grounds-test-fleet-after-on-board-fire.html
Boeing Co.  said it will revise the
program schedule of the 787 Dreamliner as it alters some
software and power-distribution panels following an on-board
fire on the jet that is already almost three years behind plan.  The test fleet of six Dreamliners remains grounded after
the fire on one aircraft two weeks ago. Boeing is working to
return to flight tests and will present the plan to the U.S.
Federal Aviation Administration “as soon as it is complete,”
the company said yesterday. A revised schedule will come in
several weeks, Boeing said, without providing details.  Boeing had aimed to deliver the Dreamliner in the first
quarter, after plans for a handover in May 2008 were derailed by
parts shortages, redesign work, challenges from new materials
and a greater reliance on suppliers. A delay of as much as six
months is already priced into Boeing stock, said  Peter Arment ,
an analyst with Gleacher & Co. in Greenwich, Connecticut.  “The 787 team is now assessing the time required to
complete the design changes and software updates that are being
developed,” Boeing spokeswoman Loretta Gunter said by e-mail.  Any further delay may require a charge against earnings,
said  Kenneth Herbert , an analyst with Wedbush Securities in San
Francisco. He said a further delay is “all but assured,”
writing in a Nov. 22 note that he expects Boeing to deliver 14
Dreamliners in 2011, down from his previous estimate of 22.  Worst-Case Scenario  Morgan Stanley’s  Heidi Wood  pegged the second half of 2011
for likely delivery, with a worst-case scenario seeing first
delivery in 2012.  Boeing rose as much as $1.98, or 3.1 percent, to $65.58
yesterday. Markets in the U.S. are closed today for
Thanksgiving.  The shares  have dropped 6.8 percent since the day
before the fire on Nov. 9, and are up 21 percent since the
beginning of 2010. Airbus parent European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. has risen 24 percent so far this year.  Boeing has said the fire in its 787 was likely caused by
“foreign debris” that led to a short circuit or electrical
arc. A stray aluminum washer shorted out a power panel, causing
the blaze during the Nov. 9 flight, said three people familiar
with the matter, who asked not to be identified because Boeing
hasn’t confirmed the details.  ‘Minor’ Changes  The company will make “minor design changes” to the
power panels to ensure stray materials cannot get inside, and
will update the electrical system’s software to improve power
distribution, it said. The 787 is the first all-electric
 airliner . About half the plane’s structure, including the
fuselage, is made of carbon fiber composites.  The affected aircraft lost its primary power, and the crew
had to evacuate on emergency slides after the plane landed in
Laredo, Texas. Only a few flights were allowed afterward to get
all of the planes back to Boeing’s Seattle hub.  The team Boeing sent to Laredo is “well along” in
preparing to return the damaged plane to Seattle,  Scott Fancher ,
the 787 program chief, said in the release. The test fleet is
based in Seattle, and the planes fly around the world in search
of various weather conditions to pass the FAA’s requirements.  With 847 advance orders, the 250-seat Dreamliner, which has
an average list price of $178 million, is Boeing’s best-selling
new aircraft. Even after the jets are flying again, and without
a major redesign, they still need to complete more than 700
hours of  testing  for both engine types. One is made by General
Electric Co. and the other by Rolls-Royce Group Plc.  Proving Capabilities  Boeing must prove the plane’s extended-operations
capabilities, its fuel-mileage performance, and its function and
reliability, among other tests required by the FAA before the
jet is certified. Boeing originally targeted May 2008 for entry
into service, with All Nippon Airways Co.  In the past week, Arment, the Gleacher analyst, and others
have reduced their estimates for 2011 deliveries of the
Dreamliner. Arment now expects Boeing to deliver 17 of the jets
next year instead of the 42 he had projected.  Boeing is building about two Dreamliners a month now,
storing them around its Everett factory prior to certification.
The latest schedule called for production to ramp up starting
next year and increase to 10 a month in 2013.  The company may use the opportunity to reassess the full
program and incorporate extra time for other adjustments,
including the faulty horizontal stabilizers that Boeing
machinists are repairing, Herbert and other analysts said.  Boeing in June found gaps in the stabilizers, the small
wings on the tail that were built by a Finmeccanica SpA unit in
Italy. Boeing has had to fill those in with metal and composite
materials.  “Now’s the perfect opportunity, if they know the margin
was already tight because of the stabilizers, to just throw it
all in and get that buffer back,” Herbert said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Rothman  in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net 
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  