-- Brazil's Vale Said to Attend Hearing Today for Hong Kong Receipt Listing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-25T07:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/brazil-s-vale-said-to-attend-hearing-today-for-hong-kong-reciept-listing.html
Vale SA , the world’s biggest iron
ore exporter, is attending a Hong Kong stock exchange hearing
today to push its case for a listing of its depository receipts,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  Trading may start next month if the Rio de Janeiro-based
company passes the hearing, said the people, who declined to be
identified before an announcement. It would be the first listing
of depositary receipts by an overseas company in Hong Kong.  The Chinese city introduced depositary receipts in 2008 to
widen listings to include foreign companies that are prohibited
from registering common shares overseas. Vale joins Russia’s
 United Co. Rusal  and Luxembourg-based L’Occitane International
SA in seeking access to Chinese investors with Asia’s third-
biggest stock market handling almost $44 billion in initial
public offerings this year.  “Chinese investors would be very interested in Vale after
it’s listed in Hong Kong,” said  Zhao Rui , a Shenzhen-based
analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co. “Vale is seeking to
increase its market share in China as India is cutting
exports.”  Vale is seeking closer access to China, the biggest
consumer of iron ore, after  third-quarter profit  more than
tripled from a year ago on rising prices and demand from Asia.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., the sole sponsor of the listing, will
arrange for some Vale shares listed overseas to be transferred
to Hong Kong in the form of receipts, the people said.  Chinese Investors  Scott Sapp , a spokesman for Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing
Ltd. said the bourse doesn’t comment on listing plans of
companies. Calls to Vale’s press office in Rio De Janeiro
outside normal business hours weren’t answered.  “The idea of listing in Hong Kong was a way to bring an
alternative for Chinese investors in Vale,” Jose Carlos Martins,
executive director of strategy, said in September in Shanghai.  Shares of the Brazilian company trade at 11.84 times
estimated earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Stocks on Brazil’s  Bovespa stock index  trade at an average 13.3
times estimated earnings. Stocks on the Hang Seng Index, Hong
Kong’s benchmark, have an average price-to-earnings ratio of
14.65 times.  Getting overseas resource producers to list is part of Hong
Kong Exchanges’ strategy to broaden offerings away from Chinese
companies. Mainland stocks accounted for 46 percent of the
HK$20.64 trillion ($2.66 trillion) capitalization of Hong
Kong’s Main Board at the end of October, exchange data shows.  Vale’s plans may bolster support for the exchange as
tumbling stock prices prompted  Bluestar Adisseo Nutrition Group 
and  China Datang Corp.  this week to delay or withdraw a maximum
$2.6 billion of share sales.  Iron Ore Gap  Vale fills a “a gap” for investors keen to buy shares of
iron ore producers traded in Hong Kong, said Guotai’s Zhao
“Vale’s iron ore has more than 50 percent iron content,
compared with 20 percent among the listed Chinese producers.”  A successful listing may pave the way for other Brazilian
companies to trade in Hong Kong.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA ,
Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, is considering issuing
depositary receipts in Hong Kong, the Ming Pao newspaper said
Nov. 16, citing an unidentified person.  Vale plans to almost double investments to $24 billion
next year as it expands iron ore production as well as boosting
nickel, copper and fertilizer businesses, it said Oct. 28. The
company expects to boost its minerals and metals production by
16 percent annually between 2011 and 2015, compared with a rate
of 9.8 percent from 2003 to 2008.  Demand growth for iron ore may resume at the end of this
year after China tackled overcapacity in its steel industry,
Executive Director Martins said in September.  -- Fox Hu  and  Helen Yuan . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Darren Boey   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 