-- Bovespa Falls as Steelmaker Rout Overshadows October Jobless Rate Decline
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-11-25T20:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/brazil-s-bovespa-index-futures-gain-on-record-low-unemployment.html
Brazilian  stocks fell for the third
time this week as steelmakers tumbled on concern over
competition from imports, overshadowing a drop in the
unemployment rate.  Gerdau SA , the region’s largest steelmaker, led declines on
the benchmark Bovespa index after Barclays Plc said record
imports of the alloy will hurt fourth-quarter earnings.  Empresa
Brasileira de Aeronautica SA , the world’s fourth-largest
aircraft maker, declined amid concern global growth is faltering
from Europe to China. Losses were limited as homebuilders, led
by  MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA , gained after a government
report showed the jobless rate fell to a record low.  The  Bovespa  stock index fell 0.4 percent to 69,361.63 at
the 3 p.m. New York time close after earlier rising as much as
0.2 percent. The real was unchanged at 1.7216 per dollar.  “Domestic steelmakers have suffered in the last months
because of the outlook for next year,” said  Leonardo Boguszewski , who helps oversee 380 million reais ($220.7
million) at Parana Banco Asset Management in Curitiba, Brazil.  Gerdau fell 2.5 percent to 20.57 reais while  Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA , Brazil’s second-biggest
steelmaker, dropped 1.2 percent to 19.98 reais. The national
steel industry association said in a statement that imports of
the alloy are likely to double this year.  ‘Pricing Power’  “It is all about pricing power, which may take longer than
expected to return,”  Leonardo Correa , an analyst at Barclays,
wrote in a note to clients.  Embraer, as the Brazilian plane builder is known, slipped
1.9 percent to 12.31 reais.  “The concerns remain the same: Europe worries, tension in
the Koreas and fear that China will take action to restrict
credit,” said  Renato Bandeira de Mello , head of equity at
Futura Corretora brokerage in Sao Paulo. Because of the U.S.
Thanksgiving Day holiday, trading volumes in Brazil are
“weak,” he said.  North Korea’s Nov. 23 shelling of South Korea’s Yeonpyeong
island was the first of its kind since the 1950-1953 Korean War
and spurred President  Barack Obama  to send an aircraft carrier
to the Yellow Sea. In Europe, the region’s sovereign debt crisis
is spreading to Spain, where the premium on government debt over
German bunds rose to a euro-era record yesterday.  Liquidity Management  China’s central bank said it will strengthen liquidity
management and “normalize” monetary conditions, reinforcing
forecasts for higher interest rates to combat the highest
inflation rate in two years.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge gained the most in two
months yesterday on speculation central bank chief nominee
 Alexandre Tombini  will contain inflation, and as consumer
confidence rose to a record. President-elect  Dilma Rousseff 
yesterday nominated Tombini, who has served as a director on the
central bank board since 2005, to replace  Henrique Meirelles .  Brazil’s jobless rate fell for the fifth straight month,
dropping to 6.1 percent in October from 6.2 percent in
September, the national statistics agency said today in Rio de
Janeiro. The rate is the lowest since the government began
publishing the data in March 2002, a sign domestic demand may
keep fueling growth. The figure matched a 6.1 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 30 analysts.  MRV Engenharia gained 1.1 percent to 16.92 reais.  Cyrela
Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes , Brazil’s
biggest homebuilder by revenue, advanced 0.8 percent to 21.21
reais.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  