-- U.K. Pound Reverses Gains Against Euro As Weber Comments Ease Crisis Fears
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-11-25T17:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/british-pound-near-nine-week-record-versus-euro-on-region-s-debt-concerns.html
The pound slid against the euro
after European Central Bank Governing Council Member Axel
Weber said Europe’s rescue fund could be increased, easing
concerns that the region’s debt crisis would spread.  Sterling reversed earlier gains against the common
currency. The 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) European Financial
Stability Facility could be expanded if necessary to assure
markets, Weber said in Paris today. Spanish and Portuguese bonds
declined on speculation the nations will have to follow Ireland
and Greece in asking for European Union assistance.  “For the time being the pound will continue to take its
cue from what’s happening in the euro area and whether people
want to worry about contagion to sterling in terms of trade,”
said  Paul Robson , a senior foreign exchange strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “Further declines in
terms of euro-sterling look likely.”  The pound weakened 0.2 percent to 84.78 pence per euro at
4:50 p.m. in London, paring an earlier 0.3 percent gain. It
appreciated to the strongest since Sept. 21 yesterday. Sterling
was little changed at $1.5774 after slumping to $1.5733, its
weakest since Oct. 27.  “Seven hundred and fifty billion should be enough to
assure the markets,” Weber said at the German embassy in Paris
late yesterday. “If not, it will have to be increased.”  Gilts fell after members of the Bank of England’s Monetary
Policy Committee, which remains split on a possible extension of
its asset-purchase program, gave no indication the central bank
plans to step up so-called quantitative easing to support the
economic recovery.  ‘Broadly Balanced’  Bank Governor  Mervyn King  told lawmakers in London that
policy makers view inflation risks as “broadly balanced” at
present and are ready to tighten or loosen policy as needed.  The Confederation of British Industry said its U.K. retail-
sales  index  rose in November and stores expect momentum to
continue next month in the run-up to Christmas.  The 10-year bond fell, pushing the yield up 4 basis points
to 3.37 percent, and the two-year note yield gained 4 basis
points to 1.04 percent.  Gilts have returned 7 percent this year, compared with a
7.2 percent gain for German bonds and 7.3 percent for U.S.
Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Sterling has weakened 3.7 percent against a basket of its
developed-country peers this year, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, making it the third-
worst-performing currency after the euro and Norwegian krone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 