-- C-Power Borrows Record $1.16 Billion for Offshore Wind-Power Project
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2010-11-25T17:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/c-power-signs-loan-agreement-with-7-banks-on-belgian-offshore-wind-farm.html
C-Power NV, a Belgian wind farm
developer, signed a $1.16 billion loan agreement for its
Thornton Bank wind power project off the nation’s coast, the
largest ever for the offshore industry.  A group of seven commercial banks will provide non-recourse
construction financing together with the Danish export credit
agency Eksport Kredit Fonden, its German counterpart Euler
Hermes Kreditversicherungs AG and the European Investment Bank,
according to a statement released today by C-Power.  "While offshore wind asset finance will not anytime soon be
characterized by frequent project financings, this deal is the
closest the sector has to a template," Charlie Hodges, a wind
industry analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said in
London.  The deal brought together 23 contractual parties, 10
financing institutions and required more than 20,500 pages of
agreements and closed in a record five months, cccording to C-
Power Chief Executive Officer Filip Martens,  The accord is for the 295-megawatt second and third phases
of Thornton Bank that will cost 1.29 billion euros ($1.72
billion) to build. This includes the cost to refinance the first
30-megawatt phase of the plant, located 30 kilometers (18.6
miles) into the Belgian North Sea which has operated since 2009.  C-Power said it represented the largest financing in the
offshore sector to date. The company’s shareholders include RWE
Innogy GmbH and  EDF Energies Nouvelles SA .  By comparison, Belgian food retailer Colruyt SA in 2009
headed a group of investors that signed a 482.5 million-euro
loan on the 165-megawatt Belwind offshore wind farm. In that
year, offshore wind farms globally amassed almost $10 billion of
capital investment, the majority in the European Union,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Banks, Guarantees  Societe Generale SA,  Rabobank Group , Commerzbank AG, Dexia
SA, KfW Ipex-Bank GmbH, KBC Bank NV and ASN Bank are supplying
400 million euros for 48 turbines. Euler Hermes is guaranteeing
380 million euros, or 95 percent of this tranche, and the
commercial banks are taking 20 million euros in risk. The loan
has an 18-year term -- 15 years from when electricity production
begins including the three-year building period, C-Power Chief
Financial Officer Pierre Lestienne said by telephone.  In addition, the European Investment Bank is providing 450
million euros in funding. Of this, it is also taking 150 million
euros in risk. The EKF is guaranteeing 45 million euros and the
commercial banks are covering 255 million euros. The overall
debt sum includes a 19 million-euro commercial term tranche also
provided by the commercial banks.  Overruns, Delays  In case of cost overruns or delays, the banks are providing
a further 44 million euros in contingency financing.  Further facilities including 36 million euros in “stand-by
letters of credit” and 58 million euros in equity bridge were
also provided, bringing the total amount provided to more than 1
billion euros.  The transaction marks the first time banks have financed
turbines able to generate 6 megawatts each. Their manufacturer,
 REpower Systems AG , will deliver 24 of the machines in 2012 and
the remaining half the following year with commissioning
expected in summer, REpower CEO Andreas Nauen said by telephone.  Though land-based versions of the 6-megawatt machine
already operate near the Danish-German border, these will be the
first installed at sea, Nauen said. The turbine contract was
signed in Antwerp today. Terms were not disclosed.  “This is a further step in the development of offshore,”
Nauen said, citing the movement away from balance-sheet financed
projects toward the project financing model.  13% Target  ABB Ltd , the Zurich-based technology company, said in a
separate statement that it won a $125 million order to link the
wind farm to the mainland grid. It will be responsible for the
system engineering, design, supply and commissioning of the
offshore substation and the platform that will house it, as well
as the underwater and land-based cable systems.  Once operating, the wind farm will contribute 10 percent of
the capacity needed for Belgium’s European Union target of 13
percent electricity from low-carbon means by 2020. Thanet, the
world’s largest operating offshore wind farm, lies off the U.K.
coast near Kent generating 300 megawatts of power.  In addition to RWE and EDF, C-Power is owned by Deme Group,
Societe Regionale d’Investissement de Wallonic, Socofe and Nuhma
NV. It was set up to develop Thornton Bank. Energy Bankers a
Paris, a financial advisory focusing on renewable energy project
finance in Europe and the U.S., advised on the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at +44-20-3216-4332 or
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at +41-44-224-4129 or
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  