-- Canadian Stocks Advance as Energy Producers Rally on Oil Gain
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-11-25T22:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/canada-stocks-rise-as-energy-producers-rally-on-oil-uranium-one-advances.html
Canadian stocks  advanced after oil
traded at its highest price in more than a week and Uranium One
Inc. rose to a 21-month high after saying regulators approved
its sale of a stake to Russia’s Uranium Holding ARMZ.  Suncor Energy Inc.  led energy stocks higher as the industry
group advanced for a second day. Financial and technology stocks
also gained and Magna International Inc., Canada’s largest auto-
parts maker, climbed after Handelsblatt reported that it’s no
longer interested in buying an automaker.  Eight of 10  industry
groups climbed.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  rose a second
day, increasing 0.3 percent to close at 12,945.81. About  247
million  shares changed hands on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the
least since July, with U.S. markets closed for the Thanksgiving
holiday. The benchmark moved in a 44-point  range , the tightest
since March.  “Markets are starting to regain a little bit of their
stability after what’s been going on in Europe,” said  Tony Demarin , chief investment officer at BCV Asset Management in
Winnipeg, Manitoba, which manages about C$240 million ($238
million). “Risk appetite is starting to enter the market a
little and that always speaks well for energy and commodities.”  The benchmark has declined 0.8 percent since Nov. 8 after
surging 14 percent in the prior four months. The rally has
trailed off as concern has mounted that more European countries
will have trouble paying their debts and China twice increased
reserve requirements for banks.  Uranium One Rises  Uranium One  gained 9.7 percent to C$5.45 for the biggest
increase today in the S&P/TSX. The Vancouver-based producer of
the metal said in a statement that it now has all regulatory
approvals required to close its transaction with ARMZ. Denison
Mines Corp., a Toronto-based uranium producer, increased 8.1
percent to C$3.20.  Suncor, Canada’s largest oil and gas producer, rose 0.5
percent to C$34.55. BlackBerry maker Research In Motion Ltd.
gained 0.7 percent to C$60.63.  Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s biggest lender by
assets, increased 0.6 percent to C$55.29. Toronto-Dominion Bank,
the second-biggest, climbed 0.7 percent to C$75.31 after Chief
Executive Officer  Edmund Clark  said he may raise the dividend
after the fiscal first quarter ends in January.  Magna climbed 2.1 percent to C$49.89 after Handelsblatt
quoted  Don Walker , the company’s CEO, as saying plans to buy an
automaker are “dead.” The Aurora, Ontario-based company aims
to quickly and “substantially” increase the share of its
revenue from emerging markets from under 5 percent, Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung  reported .  Consumer Group Retreats  Gains were limited as consumer and health companies
retreated at least 0.2 percent.  Tim Hortons Inc.  lost 1.4
percent to C$40.54 to snap a four-day winning streak, the
longest in a month.  Oil advanced, extending yesterday’s gains as traders bet a
larger-than-forecast decline in U.S. jobless claims signaled
economic growth is accelerating in the biggest crude-consuming
nation. Crude for January delivery rose as much as 67 cents, or
0.8 percent, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange to $84.53 a barrel, the highest price since Nov. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 