-- Canada's Dollar Approaches a 7-Month High Amid Rate-Increase Speculation
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-25T22:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/canada-s-dollar-approaches-7-month-high-on-speculation-of-higher-rates.html
Canada’s dollar traded near the
strongest level since April versus its U.S. counterpart on
speculation that the Bank of Canada may need to raise interest
rates sooner than economists predict as growth accelerates.  The currency is the best performer this week among the
greenback’s 16 most-traded counterparts after Canadian inflation
and retail sales and U.S. employment and confidence data topped
economists’ forecasts. Canada’s two-year bond yield reached the
widest gap over the U.S. two-year Treasury since January 2004.  “A stronger U.S. economy raises the risk that the Bank of
Canada may have underestimated the degree of spare capacity in
the Canadian economy, given the close trade links between the
two nations,”  Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis at
Schneider Foreign Exchange in London, wrote via e-mail. “The
Canadian dollar is being driven in part by a relief rally,
helped along by reasonably strong numbers out of the U.S.
yesterday.”  The Canadian currency rose as much as 0.2 percent to
C$1.0076 per U.S. dollar, the strongest level since Nov. 16,
before trading little changed at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared
with C$1.0099 yesterday. It has gained 0.8 percent this week. It
rose to 99.78 cents per U.S. dollar on Nov. 11, the highest
since April 26. One Canadian dollar buys 99.05 U.S. cents.  The loonie yesterday gained the most since September after
Russia said it began adding the Canadian dollar to its
international reserves.  The currency is benefiting from “central bank interest in
the Canadian dollar, in accordance with the view that the
currency represents a safe harbor of sorts,” said  Stewart Hall ,
an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Toronto.  Americans increased spending for a fifth month in October,
filed the fewest unemployment claims in more than two years last
week and a measure of consumer confidence topped forecasts, U.S.
reports showed yesterday.  Canada’s benchmark two-year bond yield rose eight basis
point yesterday to 1.74 percent. It held steady there today. The
1.5 percent security due in December 2012 traded at C$99.58.
Two-year Treasuries yielded 0.52 percent. U.S. markets are
closed for the Thanksgiving holiday today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  