-- Capital Shopping Surges Most in Two Years as Simon Property Considers Bid
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-11-25T17:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/capital-shopping-surges-most-in-two-years-as-simon-property-considers-bid.html
Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest mall owner, rose the most since it became
publicly traded in 1992 after saying  Simon Property Group Inc. 
may offer more than 2.3 billion pounds ($3.6 billion) in cash
for the company.  The stock advanced 13 percent in London. Simon, which owns
5.6 percent of the company, indicated in a letter yesterday that
it’s considering making an offer, CSC said in a statement today.
 Les Morris , a spokesman for Simon in Indianapolis, said he had
no comment. Simon is the largest U.S. mall owner.  CSC disclosed Simon’s intentions while announcing an
agreement to buy the Trafford Centre mall near Manchester,
England, from closely held  Peel Group  for 747.6 million pounds
in stock and bonds and 852 million pounds of assumed debt. To
help with financing, CSC raised 221.2 million pounds from
selling the equivalent of 9.9 percent of its equity outstanding
to investors today. CSC said it rejected Simon’s request to
delay the purchase and share sale.  Simon’s approach “may start a Dutch auction for the
business,”  Robert Duncan , a London-based analyst at Nomura
International Plc with a “reduce”  rating  on the stock, said in
a note to investors.  Simon said it would pay more than London-based CSC’s net
asset value if it made an offer, though it didn’t indicate a
price, according to Capital Shopping. The British mall owner’s
NAV was 368 pence a share on June 30 and it had about 629.3
million shares outstanding before today’s stock sale.  ‘Start Point’  The stock gained 43.6 pence to 381 pence, valuing the
company at about 2.4 billion pounds.  “Any hostile cash bid would have to be at about a 20
percent-plus premium to NAV, suggesting a possible start point
for negotiations of 450 pence,” Duncan said.  CSC’s other shareholders include  Westfield Group , the
world’s largest owner of shopping centers. The Australian
company disclosed a stake of about 3 percent in August 2008, a
week after Simon bought almost 3.5 percent of CSC.  Investors who didn’t participate in the share sale will
have their holdings diluted by about 30 percent when the
transaction is completed, Duncan said.  Merrill Lynch, UBS  CSC sold 62.3 million shares, which will start trading Nov.
30, at 355 pence each, according to a statement. That was 3.5
percent less than its NAV at June 30 and 5.6 percent lower than
its pro-forma net asset value at Nov. 1, calculated as if the
transaction had completed. The proceeds exclude costs and fees.
 Merrill Lynch  and  UBS AG  managed the sale.  CSC is issuing 155.3 million new shares to Peel at 368
pence each and as many as 12.3 million at the share-sale price.
Peel will also receive convertible bonds with an aggregate value
of 209 million pounds.  Peel will own 19.9 percent of CSC when the deal is
completed, making it the largest shareholder. Its holding would
rise to 24.9 percent assuming full conversion of the bonds. CSC
investors will vote Dec. 20 on whether to approve the deal.  John Whittaker , Peel’s billionaire owner, will become
deputy chairman of CSC. He faces restrictions on selling his CSC
shares for five years, according to a  presentation  on the
company’s website.  Highest Price  Including the assumed debt, the Trafford Centre deal
represents the highest price paid for a single U.K. property.
The mall has 1.9 million square feet (176,500 square meters) of
space and attracts more than 35 million visitors a year.  With the purchase, CSC will own four of the seven biggest
U.K. shopping centers, the company said on the website, citing
Property Market Analysis.  The transaction marks the first time full ownership of one
of the U.K.’s 10 biggest malls will change hands since 1999.
British Land Co. bought the Meadowhall shopping center in
northern England in November 1999 for 1.17 billion pounds in
cash and assumed debt. It sold a 50 percent stake in February
last year for 588 million pounds, of which 170 million pounds
was cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 