-- Cathay Pacific to Boost Capacity 11% Next Year on Global Travel Pickup
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-11-25T09:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/cathay-pacific-to-boost-capacity-11-next-year-on-rebound-in-global-travel.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., the
Hong Kong carrier expecting a record annual profit, will
increase passenger capacity 11 percent next year as the economic
pickup stokes demand for premium-class travel.  “It’s certainly very strong at the moment,” Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Tyler  said in an interview in the city
today. “That’s giving us a good feeling and, of course, great
results.”  The airline is due to receive nine new widebody passenger
aircraft next year as rising wages in China and a rebound in the
global economy spurs demand for business and leisure flights.
Asia-Pacific travel growth will likely continue to outpace
global demand next year, said  Andrew Herdman , director general
at the  Association of Asia Pacific Airlines .  “I’m optimistic we’ll see continued growth into 2011,”
Herdman said in a Bloomberg TV interview in Kuala Lumpur.
Airlines in the region “have got costs under control and
they’re managing capacity carefully,” he said.  Hong Kong-based Cathay will boost cargo capacity by less
than 10 percent next year after delays in the arrival of 10 on-
order Boeing Co. 747-8 freighters, Tyler said. Operations at a
freight venture with affiliate Air China Ltd. will begin next
month or in January, he said.  Cathay expects to receive six 747-8 freighters in the
second half of 2011. It will also get three Airbus SAS A330-300
passenger planes next year and six Boeing 777-300ERs, according
to its interim results statement. The airline ordered 30 Airbus
A350s and six more 777-300ERs in August.  A380 Order?  Cathay may eventually consider adding the A380, the world’s
largest passenger plane, Tyler said in a Bloomberg TV interview.
The carrier has so far favored the 777s because of their greater
cargo capacity.  “I wouldn’t rule out the airline becoming a customer at
some point,” Tyler said about the superjumbos.  Qantas Airways
Ltd.  is set to resume A380 flights on Nov. 27, more than three
weeks after grounding the planes following a mid-air engine
explosion.  IATA Head  The South China Morning Post reported that Tyler may leave
Cathay to become the head of the  International Air Transport
Association . Tyler confirmed that the group was looking for a
new CEO, while declining to comment on whether he was a
candidate. Tyler is a board member for the association, which
represents about 230 carriers worldwide.  Cathay  gained 0.9 percent to close at HK$22.80 in Hong
Kong. The stock has climbed 57 percent this year, the second-
best performer among the 45 companies on the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index .  The airline’s passenger numbers rose 11 percent in the
first 10 months of the year, while freight volumes surged 20
percent. Full-year net income will likely more than double to at
least HK$12.5 billion ($1.6 billion), according to a Nov. 15
statement. The airline has also gained from the sale of stakes
in an air-cargo handler and a maintenance company this year.  Asia Pacific carriers flew 14 percent more international
passengers in the first 10 months of the year than a year
earlier, according to the Association of Asia Pacific Airlines.
International air-cargo traffic rose 29 percent, the group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  