-- LCH Clearnet Says Extra Margin for Irish Bonds Will Increase to 45 Percent
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-11-25T08:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/lch-clearnet-says-extra-margin-for-irish-bonds-will-increase-to-45-percent.html
LCH Clearnet Ltd. demanded clients
place a larger deposit to trade Irish bonds for the third time
this month after the yield premium on the nation’s debt soared.  LCH will increase the extra margin requirement for Irish
debt to 45 percent from 30 percent and impose a so-called margin
call tomorrow, the clearing house said on its  website  today.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
bonds instead of their German counterparts rose to 6.19
percentage points today. Clearing houses such as LCH guarantee
investors’ trades are completed by standing in the middle of two
counterparties, and raise margin requirements to protect
themselves against losses should one side of the trade fail.  “We take the yield spread and we have to make a judgment
on an appropriate level of margin in a way that’s consistent
with our risk framework,”  John Burke , head of fixed income at
LCH, said today by phone. “The yield spread of Ireland over a
AAA basket as of last night had exceeded 600 basis points. We’re
not taking a forward-looking position on Ireland.”  The charges will be based on outstanding positions at the
close of business today. They apply to Irish government bond
repurchase agreements cleared through LCH’s RepoClear service.
On Nov. 10, LCH said it would impose an extra 15 percent margin
requirement on investors’ net positions in Irish debt, and
doubled that to 30 percent on Nov. 17.  Portugal Outlook  LCH published a  circular  to RepoClear members on Oct. 5
saying that a yield premium, or spread, of more than 450 basis
points between a nation’s 10-year bonds and a AAA benchmark
would “be indicative of additional sovereign risk,” and may
cause it to “materially increase the margin required for
positions in that issuer.”  Burke declined to comment on whether LCH will impose a
similar increase for other nations’ debt. The  spread  between
Portuguese 10-year bonds and the Bloomberg Fair Value benchmark
of AAA euro-region sovereign debt was at 409 basis points at
yesterday’s close.  Irish 10-year bonds rose today, with the yield slipping two
basis points to 9.11 percent as of 8:56 a.m. in London. The
yield has risen from 8.35 percent on Nov. 19, even after Ireland
requested a financial bailout as the nation battles to reassure
investors that it can control its budget deficit and support its
banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  