-- China Stocks May Gain 20% in 2011 on Liquidity, Profit, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2010-11-25T04:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/china-stocks-may-gain-20-in-2011-on-liquidity-profit-credit-suisse-says.html
China’s stocks  may climb about 20
percent in 12 months as “abundant” liquidity and profit growth
overshadows the risk inflation, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  The  MSCI China Index  may rise to 81 and the  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index  of Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong may
reach 16,000, Credit Suisse analysts  Vincent Chan  and  Peggy Chan 
wrote in the report today. The MSCI gauge advanced 0.8 percent
to 67.74 as of 10:31 a.m. local time, while the measure in Hong
Kong increased 0.6 percent to 12,951.77. Inflation may
accelerate to 5 percent next year, the report said.  Liquidity after the financial crisis is “certainly more
favorable” than in 2004-2005, an earlier period when monetary
conditions were similar, the brokerage said. While valuations
are more expensive than in 2005, earnings per share growth
“looks more promising,” the Credit Suisse analysts wrote. The
weaker global economy threatens China’s export-oriented model,
they said.  The  MSCI China Index  has advanced 4.4 percent this year
after surging 59 percent last year, rebounding after the global
financial crisis. The gauge has retreated 7.7 percent from the
high on Nov. 8 as the central bank twice this month ordered
banks to hold more in reserves to curb inflation that’s at a
two-year high and tame potential asset bubbles.  The brokerage said it’s overweight on banks, insurance,
capital goods and material stocks and underweight on energy,
real estate and transportation.  ‘Correction Pressure’  The MSCI China Index may experience “correction pressure”
from concerns about likely tightening measures, prompting a
“short-term cautious view,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. said
yesterday. The brokerage maintained its medium-term “positive
stance” on the gauge of mostly Chinese companies listed in Hong
Kong, saying the risk of inflation running out of control has
been “exaggerated” while China still has a “solid” economic
and corporate growth outlook.  The  People’s Bank of China  yesterday said it will
strengthen liquidity management and “normalize” monetary
conditions. The nation will use quantitative and price tools to
manage liquidity,  Hu Xiaolian , a deputy governor of the  People’s
Bank of China , said in a  statement  posted on the central bank’s
website.  China will also control the pace of  bank lending  for the
remainder of this year as it will be difficult to stay within
the government’s 7.5 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) target for
new loans in 2010, she said.  Inflation, Rates  Inflation reached 4.4 percent last month, the highest in
two years. Analysts at nine banks surveyed by Bloomberg News
last week predicted the central bank will boost borrowing costs
a second time by year-end.  “The biggest risk now is China’s inflation,” Credit
Suisse said. “If inflation becomes unmanageable, the government
might need to decelerate growth by using more aggressive
tightening policies that would worsen earnings and banks’ asset
quality.”  Inflation may reach 5 percent, while lending and deposit
rates may increase 125-150 basis points in 2011, the note said.  “After the financial crisis, the developed world’s long-
term growth outlook has become much more uncertain as has the
sustainability of China’s own export-oriented growth model,”
the analysts wrote. Over the next few years, as the government
tries to use domestic consumption to fill the gap left behind by
weakened exports, economic growth will probably be weaker than
in the years before the financial crisis, and “this should cap
the upside of the market,” they wrote.  Shanghai Index  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, has lost 8.7 percent since reaching an
almost seven-month high on Nov. 8, amid concern that accelerated
monetary tightening will crimp economic growth. The measure
climbed 0.9 percent to 2,886.39 in recent trading, leaving it 12
percent lower this year.  “We do not see major differences in the upside of the A-
share” stocks listed in Shanghai and those on the MSCI and Hang
Seng indexes, the report said. “However, if there is a major
shift in liquidity from speculating on property in China to
stocks, the A-share market could overshoot.”  China’s government is likely to impose a loan quota of 6
trillion to 6.5 trillion yuan for next year, less than
“street” expectations of 7 trillion to 7.5 trillion yuan,
Credit Suisse said in a separate report today by  Sanjay Jain  and
 Daisy Wu .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  