-- China Claims Victory on Futures Curbs as Brokers Say Effect May Not Endure
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-25T06:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/china-claims-victory-on-futures-curbs-as-brokers-say-effect-may-not-endure.html
China, where the world’s four top
agricultural contracts are traded, said a slump in commodity
prices showed government efforts to cool markets had worked even
as two brokerages said the effect may not endure.  Speculative funds have left the market and international
prices have dropped, spurring a decline in domestic commodities
including rubber, sugar, cotton and copper, the National
Development and Reform Commission said today. Prices had
diverged from the fundamentals of supply and demand, it said.  The government has pledged to control prices and may
increase interest rates a second time this year to slow the
fastest  inflation  in two years and to curb food costs that
jumped 10.1 percent in October. China will also make buying and
selling commodity futures more expensive to cool speculation.  “The government can claim credit for achieving its
objective in the short term,”  Wang Chen , director of research
at Wanda Futures Co., said by phone from Beijing. “But these
measures won’t change the fact that the world’s farmland faces
competition from all crops and global demand is rising.”  Cotton has tumbled 24 percent on the Zhengzhou Commodity
Exchange since reaching a record 33,720 yuan ($5,071) a ton on
Nov. 10. Rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange has lost 18
percent from its all-time high and sugar in Zhengzhou is down 14
percent. Copper in Shanghai has slumped 11 percent.  Market Response  “The market reacted after the State Council issued
directives regarding stabilization of prices and the need to
ensure people’s basic livelihood,” the NDRC said in the
statement. Prices have responded to the government’s move to
“clamp down strictly on market manipulation and other illegal
activity, and curb excessive speculation,” it said.  The Dalian Commodity Exchange said yesterday it will scrap
a measure that lets some investors pay half the normal fees for
contracts bought and sold on the same day and will cease other
discounts as of Jan. 1. The Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange and
Shanghai Futures Exchange said they will extend fees now levied
on some contracts to other products.  The government has also sold aluminum, zinc, lead, sugar,
cotton and corn this year from state stockpiles and increased
trading margins on some futures in an effort to ease shortages
and curb price gains.  “A series of price control measures has helped to cool
down the market a bit,” said  Wang Zhouyi , deputy manager of the
research department at Shanghai CIFCO Futures Co. “We should
bear in mind the markets are global, which ultimately means it’s
impossible to drive them by policies from one single player.”  Top Contract  White, or refined, sugar listed in Zhengzhou was the
world’s most-traded agricultural futures contract from January
through June by volume,  according to data  from the Futures
Industry Association. It was followed by Shanghai rubber and the
Dalian soybean-meal and soybean-oil contracts.  Volume for the Zhengzhou sugar contract more than tripled
from a year earlier, and Shanghai rubber more than doubled, the
association figures show. The bourse in Shanghai also has the 
world’s top three metals contracts -- steel rebar, zinc and 
copper -- according to the futures body.  Chicago-based  CME Group Inc.  and other U.S. and European
commodity exchanges also are charging more to trade some raw
materials after prices jumped.  “Raising fees to be active on the exchange is a
predictable move to try to calm down speculative investment,”
according to  Gary Mead , an analyst at VM Group in London. “But
high futures prices reflect both speculative investment and
fundamental supply-demand factors.”  CME, ICE  The Chinese exchanges’ steps may have a limited effect on
world commodities prices, partly because trading is closed to
outside investors. The exchanges are open to domestic companies
and foreign businesses that operate in China and buy and sell
commodities as part of everyday activities.  CME Group, the world’s biggest futures market, this month
raised the amount of money traders must keep on deposit for
soybean futures by as much as 10 percent. ICE Futures U.S.
increased margins for cotton after the fiber climbed to a record,
and London-based LCH.Clearnet raised robusta coffee, cocoa and
white-sugar charges.  The Chinese exchanges have used discounts for same-day
trading as a way to stoke volume in the past,  Dong Shuangwei ,
manager at Beijing Capital Futures Co., said by phone from
Zhengzhou. The Zhengzhou exchange first halted fee discounts on
cotton on Oct. 18. It later ended discounts for indica rice,
white sugar, rapeseed oil and cotton, its website shows.  To contact the Bloomberg New Staff on this story:
William Bi in Beijing at   wbi@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony C. Dreibus  in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  