-- China Raises Commodity Futures Margins to Cool Speculation, Curb Inflation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-25T11:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/china-increases-copper-aluminum-rubber-futures-margins-to-limit-prices.html
The Shanghai Futures Exchange, where
the world’s top three metals contracts are traded, will increase
margins and daily price limits in the latest move by China to
curb speculation and cool inflation.  Margins on copper, aluminum, steel wire, gold and fuel oil
will rise to 10 percent, the bourse said in a  statement . They
gain to 12 percent for steel-reinforcing bars and zinc, and to
13 percent for rubber, after the market closes on Nov. 29, it
said. Daily price limits for all products will widen to 6
percent from Nov. 30, it said.  China, the world’s biggest consumer of commodities, has
pledged to control prices, and may raise interest rates a second
time this year to slow the fastest  inflation  in two years and
curb food costs that jumped 10.1 percent in October. The nation
has also made trading commodity futures more expensive.  “This is another move aimed at controlling risk and
curbing speculation,” Yu Ye, an analyst at Minmetals Futures
Co., said by phone from Shenzhen.  The National Development and Reform Commission, the top
economic planning agency, said today commodity prices had
declined in response to the government’s moves to “clamp down
strictly on market manipulation and other illegal activity, and
curb excessive speculation.”  Speculative funds have left the market and international
prices have dropped, the commission said on website.  Further Measures  “A series of price control measures has helped to cool down
the market a bit,” said Wang Zhouyi, deputy manager of the
research department at Shanghai CIFCO Futures Co. “We should
bear in mind the markets are global, which ultimately means it’s
impossible to drive them by policies from one single player.”  The Shanghai exchange said it will suspend a 50 percent
trading fee discount for forward contracts of more than six
months, and raise the charge for rubber futures to 0.015 percent
from 0.01 percent now.  “We may take further regulatory measures, depending on
market conditions, to crack down on irregular trading and stop
abnormal activities to ensure the market runs smoothly,” the
bourse said in the statement.  The steel rebar, zinc and copper contracts were the world’s
most traded metals contracts in the first six months, according
to the Futures Industry  Association . Volume for steel rebars
jumped 1,412 percent and for zinc 282 percent, while copper fell
35 percent from a year ago, association data show.  Price Tumble  “This is a tough and decisive move,” Che Hongyun, chief
metals analyst at Galaxy Futures, said by phone from Beijing
today. “However, I don’t think it will affect the market trend
or even the trading activities much.”  The Dalian Commodity Exchange said yesterday it will scrap
a measure that lets some investors pay half the normal fees for
contracts bought and sold on the same day and will cease other
discounts as of Jan. 1. The Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange and
Shanghai Futures Exchange said they will extend fees now levied
on some contracts to other products.  The government has also sold aluminum, zinc, lead, sugar,
cotton and corn this year from stockpiles to ease shortages.  Cotton has tumbled 24 percent in Zhengzhou since reaching a
record 33,720 yuan ($5,071) a ton on Nov. 10. Rubber in Shanghai
has lost 18 percent from its all-time high and Zhengzhou sugar
is down 14 percent. Copper in Shanghai has dropped 11 percent
from its high this month.  ‘Claim Credit’  “The government can claim credit for achieving its
objective in the short term,”  Wang Chen , director of research
at Wanda Futures Co., said by phone from Beijing. “But these
measures won’t change the fact that the world’s farmland faces
competition from all crops and global demand is rising.”  White, or refined, sugar listed in Zhengzhou was the
world’s most-traded agricultural futures contract from January
through June by volume,  according to data  from the futures
association. It was followed by Shanghai rubber and the Dalian
soybean-meal and soybean-oil contracts.  Volume for the Zhengzhou sugar contract more than tripled
from a year earlier, and Shanghai rubber more than doubled, the
association figures show.  The Chinese exchanges’ steps may have a limited effect on
world commodities prices, partly because trading is closed to
outside investors. The exchanges are open to domestic companies
and foreign businesses that operate in China and buy and sell
commodities as part of everyday activities.  CME Group, the world’s biggest futures market, this month
raised the amount of money traders must keep on deposit for
soybean futures by as much as 10 percent. ICE Futures U.S.
increased margins for cotton and London-based LCH.Clearnet
raised robusta coffee, cocoa and white-sugar charges.  -- Helen Sun . Editors:  Richard Dobson ,  James Poole   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpool4@bloomberg.net  