-- China Unconventional Gas Development Faces Unique Challenges, WoodMac Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-25T10:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/china-unconventional-gas-faces-unique-challenges-woodmac-says.html
China, the world’s biggest energy
user, will take a different course from the U.S. in
unconventional gas development because of “unique” geological,
technical and commercial reasons, consultant Wood Mackenzie said.  “A unique range of challenges faced by China means that
they will not replicate the U.S. experience in a linear
fashion,” Wood Mackenzie said in an e-mailed release, citing
 Gavin Thompson , director of China gas research at the Edinburgh-
based company.  In China, unconventional gas may account for more than a
quarter of the country’s gas supplies by 2030, China National
Petroleum Corp. said on Nov. 19. Gas trapped in shale, coal
seams and impermeable sandstone, collectively known as
unconventional gas, accounted for more than half of domestic
production in the U.S. as of 2008, compared with 15 percent in
1990, according to Standard Chartered Plc.  China needs accelerated investment to address “unique”
geological formations, develop technologies for local conditions,
and expedite the “notoriously slow” process of project
approvals, according to Wood Mackenzie.  Chinese landowners also lack incentives to cooperate with
developers because resource rights are state-controlled and they
don’t benefit from production, Wood Mackenzie said.  The nation is boosting the use of cleaner-burning fuels to
help meet a goal to cut carbon emissions per unit of gross
domestic product by as much as 45 percent of 2005 levels by 2020.
China’s unconventional gas output will total 12 billion cubic
feet a day by 2030, Thompson said in a phone interview today.  Shale Gas  Shale gas output will reach 8 billion cubic feet a day by
2030, about equal to the country’s entire gas supply last year,
according to Thompson.  “If we go further out toward 2040-50, we will expect that
shale in particular become an ever increasing component of the
mix in the same way it has in the U.S.,” he said.  The contribution of shale gas to domestic supplies in the
next decade will be relatively modest as China focuses on
understanding the country’s shale-rock formations and how to
produce the gas commercially, Thompson said.  To meet gas demand in the next few years,  PetroChina Co. ,
the country’s biggest oil and gas company, will likely focus on
imports to meet rising gas demand, he said.  “To meet the aggressive near-term demand growth, we expect
China to contract major volumes of additional piped and LNG
imports,” Thompson said. “We expect that an additional 5
billion cubic feet per day from Central Asia and Russia will be
signed in the next three to four years to ensure supply by 2017-
2018.”  -- Chua Baizhen . Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  Jane Lee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 