-- China Needs `Harsher' Property Curbs, Cheaper Homes, Cabinet Official Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-25T04:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/china-needs-harsher-property-curbs-cheaper-homes-cabinet-official-says.html
China needs to introduce “harsher”
measures to curb real estate speculation and increase the supply
of lower-cost housing as home prices rise, said  Ba Shusong , a
top cabinet researcher.  Stricter measures should be imposed as inflation quickens,
Ba, deputy director-general of the State Council’s Development
Research Center, said in a commentary in China Business News
today. China also risks a real-estate bubble as property is one
of few investment options in the country, he said.  China, which last month raised interest rates for the first
time in three years, this year suspended mortgages for third-
home purchases and pledged to speed up trials of property taxes
to restrain foreign capital and cool property prices. While  home
prices  posted the smallest gain in 10 months in October, the
nation’s biggest developers reported higher home sales.  “We need to introduce harsher tightening policies to curb
property speculation,” he said. “Inflation is expected to
rise, driven by excess liquidity and low interest rates. The
critical part of the policy should be on increasing the supply
of affordable housing for low- and mid-income families.”  Home prices in 70 Chinese cities climbed 8.6 percent in
October from a year earlier, increasing for a 17th month,
according to data from the statistics bureau.  Shimao Property
Holdings Ltd. , a Shanghai-based developer, reported a 15 percent
gain in sales value in October from the previous month, while
 China Vanke Co. , the nation’s biggest listed real-estate
company, said contracted sales last month more than doubled.  Singapore, Hong Kong  Asian markets including Singapore, Hong Kong and Taiwan
introduced measures including higher down payments on loans this
year to cool their property markets amid concerns that asset
bubbles are forming as home prices surge.  Hong Kong intensified its yearlong battle to curb prices
with additional taxes last week, while Singapore’s central bank
said today low borrowing costs and excess liquidity globally may
push the island’s property prices higher again, setting back
government efforts to cool the market. Buyers may also take on
“excessive leverage” amid expectations of a sustained period of
low rates, the central bank said.  Inflation  accelerated to the fastest pace in two years in
October. Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent from a year earlier,
boosted by food costs, the statistics bureau reported. That was
more than the 4 percent  median forecast  in a Bloomberg News
survey of 28 economists.  ‘Strong Impulse’  The local government’s reliance on income from land sales
should be reduced as there may be a “strong impulse” to drive
up land and home prices, Ba also said in the commentary. He
declined further comment when reached on his mobile phone.  China will use at least 10 percent of net proceeds from
land transactions to develop low-cost housing, said the Ministry
of Finance in a statement on Nov 16. The government will also
carry out a nationwide inspection on the implementation of its
real-estate measures, the official China Daily said yesterday.  China also ordered first-time foreign homebuyers to show
proof they don’t own other properties in the country. Foreigners
will have to provide home ownership statements before their
purchases, along with proof of at least a year’s employment in
China, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange and the
Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development said in a
statement released on the two government websites Nov. 15.  Policy makers may introduce more measures in the fourth
quarter amid signs of a price recovery, according to Nomura
Securities Co. The likely policies include a property tax and
the enforcement of the so-called land added-value levy in the
“overheated cities,” the brokerage said in a Nov. 4 report.  -- Bonnie Cao . Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Andreea Papuc   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Bonnie Cao  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  