-- China to Close Asian Games After Spending More Money Than London Olympics
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-26T02:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/china-to-close-asian-games-with-budget-topping-london-olympics.html
Guangzhou , capital of China’s
largest provincial economy, closes the  Asian Games  tomorrow
after a spending spree that eclipses the budget for the 2012
Olympics in London.  The two-week-long competition triggered spending of 122
billion yuan ($18.3 billion) on projects including stadiums,
roads and subway lines. That compares with the 9.3 billion-pound
($14.7 billion) budget set in March 2007 for the  London Games .
The Guangzhou city’s expenditure was equal to 13 percent of its
 gross domestic product  last year.  Guangzhou, Beijing and Shanghai are among Chinese cities
vying to host international events that may help raise their
international profiles and accelerate economic development.
Guangdong’s council for promoting international trade has
expressed interest in hosting a World Expo, which spurred $44
billion of  investment  in Shanghai when it was held from May to
October.  “These events usually result in short-term losses for
their hosts,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , senior economist at
Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “But the impact on a city’s
image is huge, and the investments will bring infrastructure
improvements that will boost future growth.”  Beijing Olympics  The competition is the largest sporting event to be held in
the capital of the southern province of Guangdong and the
biggest of the 16 Asian games held every four years since 1951.  Guangzhou, a city of more than 10 million permanent
residents, saw gross domestic product rise 11.5 percent last
year to 911.3 billion yuan, bigger than  Vietnam . It won the
right to host the games in July 2004.  The city’s growth has been driven by more than three
decades of 10 percent annual export-led expansion in China,
fuelled by former leader  Deng Xiaoping  ditching hard-line
communism for market reforms in 1978. Guangdong province is the
nation’s biggest export base.  China’s economy has expanded almost 20 times since 1990,
when Beijing hosted the 11th Asian Games, the first major
international sporting event held in the nation. The country
spent $70 billion on the 2008 Olympic Games in the capital, six
times the previous record set by Athens in 2004.  Shanghai Expo  Shanghai allocated 28.6 billion yuan ($4.3 billion) for
building and operating the World Expo, and 270 billion yuan for
new  infrastructure , including two airport terminals and a three-
year renovation of the Bund waterfront area.  Guangzhou also built a games village with an area of 2.73
square kilometers (1.06 square miles) and the 610-meter (2,001-
foot)  Canton Tower , which officials claim is the world’s tallest
television tower.  The Guangzhou games are expected to attract 650,000
domestic and foreign visitors and spur 800 billion yuan in
tourism spending, the official China Daily newspaper reported
Nov. 23.  Guangzhou took actions to ensure the venues don’t become
“white elephants” when the games are over, China Daily
reported Nov. 7, citing a city official. The games village will
become a residential community, and a dragonboat venue 74
kilometers (46 miles) from downtown Guangzhou will become a
public park, the report said.  ‘World City Status’  “After the Asian Games, Guangzhou’s moving toward world
city status,” said  Li Yongning , a professor of economics and
sociology at the Guangdong Research Institute for International
Strategies in Guangzhou. “The investment for the games helped
internationalize and modernize this city.”  Better infrastructure enhances the city’s competitiveness
and helps attract foreign and domestic investments, he said in a
telephone interview.  Beijing is searching for new ways to utilize facilities
built for the 2008 Olympics. At the Water Cube, where U.S.
swimmer  Michael Phelps  won a record eight gold medals, visitors
slumped from 100,000 daily in the months after the Games to
“just thousands,” prompting a nine-month renovation to convert
it into a water park, China Daily reported Feb. 2 and Aug. 15.  At a 4.4 square-mile area known as the Olympic Green, floor
tiles are broken and wall tiles are falling off some public
toilets, the newspaper reported Aug. 19.  Nanjing, the capital of Jiangsu province, will host the
Youth Olympic Games in 2014. Hong Kong, which is bidding for the
rights to hold the Asian Games in 2023, plans to spend HK$44.5
billion ($5.7 billion) on the 16-day event.  Not all Chinese cities with ambitions to host global events
have been successful. The nation’s sports authorities rejected
an application by the northeastern city of Harbin to host the
2018 Winter Olympics, the city’s third attempt at the Games, the
state-run Xinhua News Agency reported Feb. 24.  The city lacked the infrastructure and enough fans of
winter sports, it said.  -- Kevin Hamlin ,  Zhang Dingmin . Editors:  Chua Kong Ho ,  Michael Tighe   To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  