-- China Credit-Default Swaps Trading Begins as Regulator Seeks Risk Control
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-25T08:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/china-credit-default-swaps-trading-begins-as-regulator-seeks-risk-control.html
China’s first yuan-denominated
credit-default swaps started trading on the interbank bond
market as the nation broadens its financial system, according to
the National Association of Financial Market Institutional
Investors.  Four warrants contracts with a face value of 480 million
yuan ($72 million) changed hands yesterday, the bond market
regulator said  in a notice  published on its website.  Domestic-currency credit-default swaps, known in China as
credit risk mitigation contracts, were introduced on Nov. 5. to
help investors manage risk in the nation’s 3.3 trillion yuan
interbank bond market. The swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities if a borrower fails to
meet its debt agreements.  “These products are centrally registered, centrally
managed and centrally cleared, improving market transparency and
strictly controlling leverage,” the notice said.  The warrants, which are tradable versions of credit risk
mitigation contracts, provide default protection on bonds issued
by China United Network Communications Ltd.,  TCL Corp , and
Yunnan Copper Industry Group Co.  “It’s a good start and will improve,”  Yang Wang , a
director of fixed-income research at UBS Securities Co. in
Beijing, said. “It’s still at a very early stage so we can’t
expect too much of this market.”  Default swaps may become more popular with investors when
companies from riskier sectors, such as real estate, sell more
bonds, he said.  China’s interbank market accounts for more than 95 percent
of trading in the nation’s domestic currency bonds, according to
the Asia-Pacific Finance and Development Center, a public
institution under Ministry of Finance supervision.  -- Henry Sanderson . Editors:  Hugh Chow ,  Tom Kohn   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  