-- Coal India Will Purchase Overseas Mines to Meet Import Demand
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2010-11-26T11:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/coal-india-will-purchase-overseas-mines-to-meet-import-demand.html
Coal India Ltd. , the world’s largest
producer of the fuel, is studying the acquisition of five mines
in the U.S., Australia and Indonesia to meet the country’s
demand for the fuel, Chairman  Partha Bhattacharyya  said.  The state-owned company is examining a mine in Australia
owned by  Peabody Energy Corp. , one in the U.S. owned by  Massey
Energy Co.  and another in Indonesia, Bhattacharyya said,
declining to name the third company. While Coal India hasn’t
started due diligence on two more mines in Australia, it may
appoint banks soon to evaluate offers, he said.  “We are narrowing the gap of valuations with Peabody,”
Bhattacharyya, 59, said in an interview in New Delhi yesterday.
“We would like to invest because there are companies which want
money for their mines or a market for their coal,” he said.
“We have the money and there is a big market here.”  The Kolkata-based mining company has 380.5 billion rupees
($8.3 billion) in cash for acquisitions as consumption rises in
Asia’s second-biggest energy consumer. India’s annual coal
demand will exceed output by 100 million metric tons in four
years and Coal India aims to meet half the shortfall from
overseas mines, the chairman said.  “It’s absolutely critical not just for the company but
also for the country,” said Jagannadham Thunuguntla, chief
strategist at SMC Global Securities Ltd. in New Delhi. “From a
macro-economic standpoint, it is very important for India to
have control over natural resources and Coal India is a trump
card for the government.”  Indonesia Venture  Bhattacharyya said Coal India may also begin talks with the
Indonesian government in January on a proposed venture with
state-owned miner PT Tambang Batubara Bukit Asam.  At the last meeting of an Indonesia-India working group
“we had suggested Bukit Asam is a government-owned company, and
if certain blocks can be operated jointly by forming a
venture,” he said. “They have said in the next meeting they
will bring up something. That’s likely to be in January.”  Coal India  fell  0.2 percent to 312.70 rupees at the close
in Mumbai trading as Indian stocks declined, dragging the
benchmark  Sensitive Index  0.9 percent lower. The stock has
gained 28 percent since the government sold a 10 percent stake
in the company at 245 rupees a share last month in India’s
largest initial share sale.  Of 20 analysts that cover Coal India, 16  recommend  buying
the stock and one recommends selling.  IPO, Output  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  raised 152 billion rupees
from the IPO in October, offering the stock at a discount to
global peers. India’s economy grew at the fastest pace in more
than two years in the three months ended June 30, spurring
energy demand.  Coal India and its units, which account for 82 percent of
the nation’s production of the fuel, posted a 29 percent
increase in  net income  to 40.2 billion rupees in the six months
ended Sept. 30, the miner said Nov. 23. The miner has 17.1
billion rupees of  loans  outstanding, payable through 2044,
according to Bloomberg data.  “Coal asset prices may go up in future because of rising
demand from India and environmental constraints, which are
likely to hamper production,” said  K.K. Mital , a New Delhi-
based fund manager with Globe Capital Market Ltd. “So, now is
the right time for Coal India to make these acquisitions, if
they come at the right price.”  India’s government has pledged to provide electricity
nationwide by 2012 and needs to increase installed generation
capacity to 200,000 megawatts to sustain economic growth,
according to the power ministry. More than half of the current
capacity of 167,278 megawatts is fueled by coal.  Coal demand in India may more than triple in the next two
decades to 2 billion metric tons, Coal Minister  Sriprakash Jaiswal  said Sept 24. India produces 530 million tons of coal a
year and imports about 67 million tons, the minister said.  Coal India has proven reserves of 52.55 billion tons, of
which 21.75 billion is extractable, according to the IPO
document.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
 Rajesh Kumar Singh  in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 