-- Commerzbank `Cooperating' With U.S. Authorities on Iran Investigation
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n e   L e n z n e r   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-11-25T09:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/commerzbank-says-it-s-cooperating-with-u-s-probe-of-iranian-transactions.html
Commerzbank AG, Germany’s second-
biggest bank, is cooperating with U.S. authorities on an
investigation of transactions involving Iran and said it can’t
gauge the outcome or financial impact of the examination.  “The bank is investigating the matter and cooperating with
the U.S. and N.Y. authorities,” the Frankfurt-based company
said by e-mail today. “It is premature to assess the outcome or
timing of the investigation and what, if any, impact financially
or otherwise it may have on the bank.”  Commerzbank may need to pay a three-digit million-euro fine
to the U.S. because of past business with Iran, Boersen-Zeitung
reported earlier today, citing settlements by other banks.
 Barclays Plc  agreed in August to pay $298 million and  Credit
Suisse Group AG  paid $536 million last year to settle claims
they helped facilitate transactions that let Iran and other
nations avoid government sanctions.  U.S. Federal and New York authorities asked Commerzbank to
investigate dollar transactions processed through the U.S. and
involving certain persons and countries, such as Iran, subject
to sanctions or regulations administered by the U.S. Office of
Foreign Assets Control, the bank said in today’s statement,
without providing further detail.  Commerzbank is examining transactions between 2002 and 2007
following a U.S. request, Boersen-Zeitung said, citing  Markus Beumer , head of the division for small and mid-sized companies.  Sven Gebauer , a spokesman for German financial regulator
BaFin, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  The U.S. in September sanctioned a German bank,  Europaisch-
Iranische Handelsbank , accusing it of being a “lifeline” for
Iran as the regime develops nuclear and missile programs.
Hamburg-based EIH said the allegations directed at it by the
Department of the Treasury are “defamatory” and “without
substance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  