-- Copper Drops as China Tightens Liquidity, Curbs Speculation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-25T08:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/copper-zinc-advance-for-second-day-on-u-s-economic-reports-chile-strike.html
Copper declined as China, the
largest metals consumer, pledged further tightening measures to
control liquidity to fight inflation.  The metal for three-month delivery fell 0.3 percent to
$8,224.75 at 3:31 p.m. in Singapore. Copper for March delivery
on the Shanghai Futures Exchange closed 0.6 percent lower at
62,080 yuan ($9,336) a ton.  “Despite some positive news overnight, copper is more
likely to be capped in a range rather than return to an upward
trajectory,” Zhu Haitao, an analyst at Zhongcai Futures Co.,
said by phone from Shanghai. China’s measures to tighten
monetary policy will squeeze the flow of speculative money and
help cool commodities markets, he said.  China’s central bank said yesterday it will strengthen
liquidity management and “normalize” monetary conditions after
having twice this month ordered banks to hold more in reserves
to curb inflation that’s at a two-year high. The nation will use
quantitative and price tools to manage liquidity, Hu Xiaolian, a
deputy governor of the People’s Bank of China, said in a
statement posted on the central bank’s website.  Both higher rates and bank reserve ratios may be needed to
control liquidity, PBOC adviser Xia Bin said at a conference in
Shanghai today.  Commodities markets have reacted to the State Council’s
earlier notice to clamp down on market manipulation and
excessive speculation, the National Development and Reform
Commission said on its website today, explaining the recent
decline in commodity prices.  “A series of price-control measures has already helped to
cool down the market a bit,” said  Wang Zhouyi , deputy manager
of the research department at Shanghai CIFCO Futures Co. “But
commodities markets are global, so ultimately it’s impossible to
drive the markets by policies from one single player.”  U.S. Economy  Copper gained earlier after household purchases in the U.S.
increased for a fifth month in October, advancing 0.4 percent
after a 0.3 percent gain in September, the Commerce Department
reported yesterday. Jobless claims fell by 34,000 to 407,000 in
the week ended Nov. 20, the fewest in more than two years, Labor
Department figures showed.  “The U.S. data showed economic activity has mildly
strengthened and investors have become more willing to take
risks,” Minmetals Futures Co. said in a research note today.  In Chile, the wage dispute at Anglo American Plc and
Xstrata Plc’s Collahuasi mine continued. The company extended an
offer until Nov. 26 from Nov. 23, saying it will go on
negotiating directly with workers in a bid to end the strike at
the world’s fourth-biggest copper mine.  Aluminum in London was unchanged at $2,259 a ton and lead
was little changed at $2,120 a ton. Nickel declined 0.7 percent
to $22,351 a ton, while tin fell 0.2 percent to $24,250 a ton.  -- Helen Sun . Editors: Richard Dobson, Jarrett Banks.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpool4@bloomberg.net  