-- Copper Falls, Caps Third Straight Weekly Drop, as China's Demand May Ease
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 2010-11-26T19:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/copper-heads-for-third-weekly-drop-as-china-takes-steps-to-curb-inflation.html
Copper fell, capping a third
straight weekly drop, on concern that demand will decline as
China, the world’s largest metal consumer, moves to curb
speculation and cool inflation.  China’s benchmark money-market rate rose to the highest
level in almost two months on speculation that policy makers
will raise borrowing costs. The Shanghai Futures Exchange will
increase margins on gold, copper and aluminum after the market
closes on Nov. 29. The dollar rallied amid concerns that the
North and South Korean conflict and European debt crisis will
escalate.  “Besides concerns about possible monetary tightening in
China, other main factors were rising risk aversion, the
continued strength of the dollar and the increase of margins on
the SHFE,” Comerzbank AG said in a report.  Copper futures for March delivery fell 0.4 cent, or 0.1
percent, to settle at $3.7625 a pound at 1:23 p.m. on the Comex
in New York. The price lost 2.1 percent this week, after
slumping 2.7 percent the previous two weeks. U.S. markets were
closed yesterday for the Thanksgiving holiday.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell for the third time in
four days.  “As an industrial commodity, copper is seeing a little
selloff with the equities,” said  Phil Streible , a senior
strategist at Lind-Waldock, a broker in Chicago.  Copper may trade around $3.70 by the end of the year as
Chinese concerns cap price gains, Streible said. The price has
climbed 12 percent this year, reaching a 30-month high of
$4.0875 on Nov. 11.  “There will be a rate increase in China, and everybody
knows that,” he said.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months dropped $101, or 1.2 percent, to close at $8,239 a ton
($3.74 a pound).  Zinc, tin, lead, aluminum and nickel also fell on the LME.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
 Yi Tian  in New York at 
 Ytian8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 