-- Crude Oil Trades Near a One-Week High After U.S. Jobless Claims Decline
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-11-25T07:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/crude-oil-advances-as-u-s-jobless-claims-drop-consumer-spending-gains.html
Oil traded near the highest in more
than a week as traders bet a larger-than-forecast decline in U.S.
jobless claims signaled economic growth is accelerating in the
biggest crude-consuming nation.  Futures surged the most in four months yesterday after the
Labor Department said applications for unemployment benefits
fell to the lowest since 2008 in the week ended Nov. 20. Demand
for  distillate fuels  including diesel used in trucks to transport 
goods in the week ended Nov. 19 was 3.9 percent higher than a
year ago, an Energy Department said yesterday.  “With the economic recovery moving into a more mature
phase we get the movement of goods around the country, which uses
up a lot of diesel in transport,” said  Yingxi Yu , an analyst at
Barclays Capital in Singapore. “So we are seeing a feed-through
of the economic cycle into oil demand.”  The January contract was at $83.66 a barrel, down 20 cents,
in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange at
3:03 p.m. Singapore time. Yesterday, it gained $2.61, or 3.2
percent, to $83.86, the highest settlement since Nov. 15. Oil is
up 5.6 percent this year.  Floor trading in New York today will be halted for the U.S.
Thanksgiving holiday. Electronic deals will continue with Nov.
26 as the closing date for all transactions.  Prices pared earlier gains today as the euro weakened for a
fourth day against the U.S. dollar on concerns of a widening
sovereign debt crisis. A stronger U.S. currency reduces the
appeal of commodities for investors.  Consumer Spending  Consumer spending, which accounts for 70 percent of the
U.S. economy, increased for a fifth month in October as a
rebound in incomes spurred purchases at the beginning of the
fourth quarter, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday.
Incomes were up 0.5 percent.  Risk appetite “improved with the focus on positive U.S.
data flow,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Melbourne, said in
a note today. “Although U.S. crude inventories unexpectedly
rose last week, the key reason was higher imports, which could
suggest stronger demand.”  Brent crude for January settlement was at $85.67 a barrel,
down 17 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The contract added $2.59, or 3.1 percent, to end the session at
$85.84 yesterday.  Crude Stockpiles  Crude supplies  rose  1.03 million barrels to 358.6 million
in the week ended Nov. 19, according to the Energy Department
report. A 2 million-barrel decrease was  forecast , according to
the median of 16 analyst responses in a Bloomberg News survey.  Imports of crude  climbed  1.16 million barrels, or 15
percent, to 9.02 million last week, the Energy Department said.  Crude-oil inventories at Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery
point for New York futures, rose 560,000 barrels to 33.6
million, the report showed.  Distillate fuel  supplies, including diesel and kerosene,
dropped for a ninth week, declining 541,000 barrels to 158.3
million, the Energy Department said.  Gasoline  stockpiles climbed
1.9 million barrels to 209.6 million, the first gain in five
weeks.  “The past month has seen the overhang in U.S. diesel
supplies progressively come down on a combination of exports and
improved freight demand lifting diesel consumption,”  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity markets strategy at BNP
Paribas SA, said in a note yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  