-- Daily Mail Posts Full-Year Profit After Advertising Rebound, Job Cuts
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2010-11-25T07:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/daily-mail-returns-to-profit-after-rebound-in-advertising-job-reductions.html
Daily Mail & General Trust Plc , the
publisher of Britain’s Daily Mail newspaper, posted a profit
after a loss a year ago on job cuts and profit growth at its
business-to-business operations and national newspapers.  Net income for the year was 199.8 million pounds ($315
milion), after a loss of 303.4 million pounds a year earlier,
the company said in a statement today. Sales declined 4.6
percent to 1.97 billion pounds, compared with the 1.99 billion-
pound average  estimate  of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Daily Mail’s U.K. consumer media operations, which include
the Daily Mail and the Mail on Sunday newspapers, showed “sharp
improvement” due to cost cuts, the elimination of unprofitable
activities and a rebound in national advertising, Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Morgan  said in the statement.
International business-to-business operations such as the
company’s conference unit also boosted profit, he said.  “Although we remain cautious about the medium-term
outlook, particularly given continuing economic uncertainties,
we are well placed to continue investing in our businesses,”
Morgan said. The company is “well positioned for 2011 and
beyond.”  The company recommended a final dividend of 11 pence a
share, bringing the full-year dividend to 16 pence compared with
14.7 pence a year earlier.  Daily Mail said it was “cautiously optimistic” it would
achieve another year of underlying growth and said it is
focusing on controlling costs, cash generation and debt
reduction.  Attendance and booking at the events unit have been
“moderately encouraging,” with improvement expected into 2011,
Daily Mail said. Advertising revenue at its Associated
Newspapers unit has continued to recover since January and the
Mail Online website is attracting new readers, it said.  Daily Mail’s Northcliffe regional news unit struggled
during the year and the outlook is not expected to improve
because of higher newsprint costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 