-- Daily Mail Shares Slump on Declining Full-Year Sales, Cautious Forecast
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2010-11-25T09:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/daily-mail-drops-on-declining-full-year-sales-cautious-forecast.html
Daily Mail & General Trust Plc , the
publisher of Britain’s Daily Mail newspaper, dropped as much as
7 percent in London as sales continued to decline and the
company said it remains cautious about the medium-term outlook.  Full-year sales fell 4.6 percent to 1.97 billion pounds
($3.11 billion), the company said in a statement today. That
compares with the 1.99 billion-pound average  estimate  of 14
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The stock dropped as much as
39.5 pence to 525 pence and was down 2.3 percent at 551.5 pence
as of 8:50 a.m.  An increase in sales at some business-to-business units
failed to make up for a decline at national and regional
newspaper units. The Northcliffe regional newspaper business is
facing “another tough year” after the unit’s revenue dropped
10 percent to 294 million pounds, the company said.  The company remains “cautious about the medium-term
outlook, particularly given continuing economic uncertainties,”
Chief Executive Officer  Martin Morgan  said in the statement.
Still, the company is “well positioned for 2011 and beyond.”  Net income for the year was 199.8 million pounds, after a
loss of 303.4 million pounds a year earlier, helped by job cuts
and profit growth at business-to-business operations.  Daily Mail’s U.K. consumer media operations, which include
the Daily Mail and the Mail on Sunday newspapers, showed “sharp
improvement,” Morgan said. International business-to-business
operations such as the company’s conference unit also boosted
profit, he said.  Higher Dividend  The company recommended a final dividend of 11 pence a
share, bringing the full-year dividend to 16 pence compared with
14.7 pence a year earlier.  Daily Mail said it was “cautiously optimistic” it would
achieve another year of underlying growth and said it is
focusing on controlling costs, cash generation and debt
reduction.  Attendance and booking at the events unit have been
“moderately encouraging,” with improvement expected into 2011,
Daily Mail said. Advertising revenue at its Associated
Newspapers unit has continued to recover since January and the
Mail Online website is attracting new readers, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 