-- TDC Owners Seek Up To $4 Billion in Sale, Buyback
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-11-25T16:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/tdc-s-private-equity-owners-said-to-seek-up-to-4-7-billion-in-stock-sale.html
TDC A/S , Denmark’s biggest phone
company, said its private-equity-firm owners will raise as much
as 22.5 billion kroner ($4 billion) in a stock sale and buyback.  TDC ’s owners Apax Partners LLP, Blackstone Group LP, KKR &
Co., Permira Advisers LLP and Providence Equity Partners Inc.
will sell 210 million shares and another 31.5 million in an
over-allotment option given sufficient demand, the Copenhagen-
based company said in a statement today. The shares are being
offered for 47 kroner to 56 kroner each. TDC will also buy back
as much as 9 billion kroner of stock from all shareholders.  The private equity firms are selling a stake as investors
seek dividend yields from European telecommunications stocks
after years of rapid growth and overseas acquisitions. Chief
Executive Officer  Henrik Poulsen  has promised to return 80
percent to 85 percent of free cash flow to investors in
dividends. Copenhagen-based TDC plans to pay a dividend of 4.35
kroner a share in 2011.  TDC’s private-equity owners “will want to maintain a
significant interest to show to investors that they are not
selling out at the peak,” said Andrew Hogley, a London-based
analyst at Execution holdings Ltd. “They have to keep some skin
in the game.”  The five buyout firms, which hold 88 percent of TDC, will
retain as much as 60 percent after the share sale and buyback,
Poulsen said in a conference call today. The private-equity
firms acquired the stake in TDC for $15.3 billion, including net
debt, in 2006.  Ebitda Margin  The Danish phone operator has sold units outside
Scandinavia and cut costs to boost earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization.  TDC has increased its Ebitda margin to 41 percent from 28
percent in the past five years, Poulsen said two weeks ago. The
company’s Ebitda margin will probably continue to grow to 41.7
percent in 2011 and 41.9 percent in 2012, according to analysts
at SEB AB, one of the share sale managers.  TDC rose  0.1 kroner, or 0.2 percent, to 53.65 kroner in
Copenhagen trading, valuing the company at 53.2 billion kroner.  TDC decided to buy back shares and increase shareholder
value because the company is “overcapitalized” after its 3.3
billion Swiss francs sale of Sunrise Communications AG, it said
in a statement.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and SEB are managing
the sale as global coordinators while Deutsche Bank AG and UBS
AG are also bookrunners.  Returning Cash  Private equity firms are selling assets again to return
cash to investors after deal-making had been brought to a near-
halt for two years during the financial crisis. The firms are
resuming investments, having led $205 billion of takeovers this
year, more than double the amount in the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Separately, London-based Apax is close to buying Advantage
Sales & Marketing Inc. from private-equity firm J.W. Childs
Associates LP and Bank of America Corp. for $1.8 billion,
according to a person familiar with the deal. Advantage’s
current owners will reap a threefold profit from the sale, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zijing Wu  in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net 
 Alexis Xydias  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ; 