-- Default Risk Sinks Most in World on Paris Club, CPI Plan: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2010-11-25T14:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/default-risk-sinks-most-in-world-on-paris-club-cpi-plan-argentina-credit.html
Argentine bond risk is falling the
most in the world this week after President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  pledged to open talks with the Paris Club on $6.7
billion in defaulted debt and redesign the consumer price index.  The cost of protecting Argentine government debt against
non-payment for five years with credit-default swaps tumbled 51
basis points, or 0.51 percentage point, in the five days through
yesterday to 659, according to CMA data. The next-best performer
among countries was Iceland, whose default risk sank 6.7 basis
points.  Fernandez said Nov. 16 the Paris Club group of creditor
nations accepted Argentina’s request to start talks to
restructure the debt without International Monetary Fund
oversight. The government also asked the IMF this week to help
revamp the national  consumer price index  amid concern the data
doesn’t reflect the true inflation rate.  “These are all very good steps and very clear signals
about the direction in which they seem to be moving,” said
 Gunter Heiland , an emerging market debt portfolio manager who
helps oversee more than $2.6 billion worth of assets, including
an “overweight” Argentine position, at Greenwich, Connecticut-
based fund Gramercy. “We find it very encouraging.”  More Credibility  The yield on benchmark inflation-linked peso bonds due in
December 2033 dropped 59 basis points to 7.45 percent since the
Nov. 16 announcement, according to Bloomberg prices.  Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  said yesterday that he plans
to travel to France as soon as Dec. 9 to meet with Paris Club
officials. In June, Argentina restructured $12.2 billion of debt
remaining from the country’s record $95 billion default in 2001.  “Argentina has gained a lot of credibility because
Argentina has demonstrated that it can restructure its debt in a
credible way,” Boudou told Buenos Aires-based Radio La Red
yesterday. “Moving ahead with the Paris Club will allow
interest rates to continue to fall” for companies seeking to
sell bonds, he told Radio Mitre, also in Buenos Aires.  Argentina’s  consumer price index , which measures prices in
the city of Buenos Aires and its outskirts, has been questioned
by private economists and politicians, including former Economy
Minister  Roberto Lavagna  and Vice President  Julio Cobos . They
say the government has underreported the rate since January
2007, when then-President  Nestor Kirchner  shuffled personnel at
the national statistics agency, known as Indec.  Technical staff from the Washington-based IMF will arrive
in Argentina in the first half of December to help draw up the
new price index, Indec director  Ana Maria Edwin  said Nov. 23.  The IMF confirmed later that day “the request by the
Argentine authorities for the IMF to provide technical
assistance on the Consumer Price Index.”  IMF Review  Argentina has refused to let the IMF review its finances
since 2006, when Kirchner, Fernandez’s predecessor and late
husband, paid its $9.8 billion debt to the lender. Kirchner, who
once labeled the IMF a “dictatorship,” died on Oct. 27,
sparking an Argentine bond rally. During the week after his
death, the average yield on Argentine dollar bonds tumbled 76
basis points to 8.35 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Argentina’s five-year credit default swaps have had the
third-biggest decline this year among governments worldwide,
dropping 257 basis points. Latvia is down 264 and Ukraine has
plunged 689.  The Paris Club plan and a new inflation index “show a
change in direction, or at least a nod toward a change from how
the government had been acting,” said  Marina Dal Poggetto , a
partner at Estudio Bein & Asociados, a Buenos Aires research
company founded by former Deputy Economy Minister  Miguel Bein .  Cutting Inflation  Fixing the consumer price index will be easier than curbing
inflation, she said.  “You need changes to monetary policy, fiscal policy,” Dal
Poggetto said. She forecasts prices will rise 24 percent this
year.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine
government bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 3 basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 518 at 9:29 a.m. New York time,
according to JPMorgan. The so-called spread is down from 846 on
July 1. Almost a decade after its financial collapse, Argentine
spreads are the highest in emerging markets after Ecuador and
Venezuela.  The yield on Argentine dollar bonds due in 2017 rose 6
basis points to 8.20 percent. The peso was little changed at
3.9723 per dollar.  Lower Yields  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Argentine warrants linked to economic growth rose 0.17
cents to 13.63.  Among other credit plans, Argentina’s Compania
Latinoamericana de Infraestructura y Servicios SA, or CLISA, as
the company is known, seeks to sell as much as $150 million of
six-year notes overseas as soon as Nov. 30, according to a
person familiar with the offering, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set. Buenos Aires city officials are in
China this week seeking a $1.4 billion development bank loan for
subway expansion plans, municipality Public Credit Director  Abel Fernandez  said Nov. 23.  The sovereign debt rally sparked by Fernandez’s most recent
moves may be slow, Gramercy’s Heiland said.  “I’m not looking for any one decisive market-moving
event,” Heiland said. “We’re building a foundation here for
lower yields. These are all steps that add up to significant
improvements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  