-- Dixons Internet Sales Decline as Consumers Favor `Multi-Channel' Shopping
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 ]   P a u l   J a r v i s   [ ]
-- 2010-11-25T10:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/dixons-internet-sales-decline-as-consumers-favor-multi-channel-shopping.html
Dixons Retail Plc , the U.K’s largest
consumer-electronics retailer, said sales fell at its website-
only businesses as more consumers use the Internet to help make
a purchase from its stores rather than buying directly online.  E-commerce  sales  slid 4 percent in the 24 weeks ended Oct.
16, the Hemel Hempstead, England-based retailer said today as it
reported a narrower loss for the period. Dixons’ e-commerce unit
comprises the dixons.co.uk and pixmania websites and doesn’t
include the Internet sites for the Currys and PCWorld chains.  “There has been a consumer shift between pure-play”
Internet purchases and “multi-channel” shopping using the
online operations of the company’s store chains, Chief Executive
Officer  John Browett  said on a conference call. The retailer’s
multi-channel sales rose 28 percent in the first half.  Browett forecast a “flattening out” in online sales of
consumer electronics across Europe. Web sales of electrical
products in the U.K. rose 23 percent in September from a year
earlier, according to the IMRG Capgemini e-Retail Sales Index.  Dixons.co.uk, a pure online business, is “very focused”
on televisions and larger products which have “slowed recently
quite significantly,” Browett said. Multi-channel is doing
better, so “there has been a switch from Dixons to Currys.”  The decline in e-commerce sales also reflected “some
transition issues” moving Dixons onto new platforms, he said.  Dixons today reported a net loss of 4.9 million pounds
($7.7 million) for the first half of the financial year,
compared with 17.8 million pounds a year earlier.  Sales at stores open at least a year rose 1 percent as the
soccer World Cup boosted sales of televisions.  Christmas Outlook  The retailer doesn’t expect an easy Christmas, Browett
said. Sales of products such as  Apple Inc.  iPods and 3-D
televisions will be “very strong,” though the “key question”
is how much these will substitute for other categories, he said.  Dixons said it remains “cautious” about the economic
outlook as low  consumer confidence  weighs on spending. The
retailer, which began selling Apple’s iPad this year and
traditionally makes all its profit in the second half of the
financial year, is refurbishing stores, combining outlets into
Megastores and adding Phones 4u shop-in-shops to boost sales.  “Progress in terms of profitability remains limited, which
is partly due to the positioning of the group, the weak product
pipeline and the economic environment, which is likely to
deteriorate further,”  Simon Irwin , an analyst at Liberum
Capital, said in an e-mail. He rates the shares “sell.”  Dixons fell 0.24 penny, or 0.5 percent, to 26.46 pence as
of 10:35 a.m. in London trading. The shares have dropped 27
percent this year, more than the 3.1 percent decline of the
17-stock FTSE 350 General Retailers Index.  An increase in U.K. value-added tax on Jan. 4 will push
forward sales “a little bit,” the CEO said.  “We have maintained our momentum in transforming the group
and are performing ahead of the market,” Browett said. 