-- Expert-Broker Chu Steered Hedge Fund to Asia, U.S. Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-11-25T02:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/don-chu-steered-hedge-fund-to-asia-for-inside-information-u-s-court-told.html
Don Ching Trang Chu, the “expert-
network” executive arrested yesterday on insider-trading
charges, had a roster of Asia-based employees of North American
technology companies to feed information to clients, according to
court documents.  Chu, who worked for Primary Global Research LLC of Mountain
View, California, offered to set up hedge-fund manager  Richard Choo-Beng Lee  with employees of  Sierra Wireless Inc .,  Broadcom
Corp . and  Atheros Communications Inc.  when he planned to travel
to Taiwan in 2009, U.S. prosecutors said in a criminal complaint
yesterday in Manhattan. Lee, co-founder of Spherix Capital LLC,
was secretly cooperating with the government after being
ensnared in the Galleon Group insider-trading probe.  Primary Global billed Chu on its website as the firm’s
“bridge to Asia experts and data sources.” In e-mails and
recorded conversations, Chu, 56, said he liked arranging
investor meetings in Asia because regulators weren’t too
aggressive.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is “too
strong,” Chu told Lee in a conversation recorded by the Federal
Bureau of Investigation in August 2009, according to the
complaint. “In Asia, there, nobody cares.”  Primary Global is one of about 40 firms that connect
investors with research and experts in a range of sectors,
countries and thousands of individual companies. The detailed
information they provide on product development, sales and
company strategy complements, and sometimes supplant,
conventional research provided by Wall Street firms.  Securities Fraud  Insider trading involves the illegal buying or selling of
stock using material, nonpublic information. Last year, Lee
pleaded guilty to insider trading at San Jose, California-based
Spherix Capital, one of 14 guilty pleas in the Galleon case.  Raj Rajaratnam , founder of New York-based Galleon, and former hedge-
fund consultant  Danielle Chiesi  yesterday lost a bid to bar
wiretap evidence against them. They deny wrongdoing.  “There is probable cause to believe that Chu promotes the
firm’s consultation services by arranging for firm consultants
to provide material, nonpublic information regarding certain
public companies’ releases of significant financial information
or other market-moving events,” prosecutors said.  Chu, who lives in Somerset, New Jersey, is charged with one
count each of conspiracy to commit securities fraud and
conspiracy to commit wire fraud. He faces as much as 25 years in
prison if convicted of the wire fraud charge.  James DeVita , an
attorney for Chu, declined to comment.  Chu’s arrest is part of a wider crackdown by Preet Bharara,
the U.S. Attorney in Manhattan, into what he last month called
“rampant” insider trading. The latest push, building from the
Galleon case and adding a more international reach, is centered
on whether expert-network firms arranged for clients including
hedge funds and mutual-fund companies, to receive nonpublic
information.  Hedge Funds Targeted  FBI agents on Nov. 23 searched the offices of Level Global
Investors LP and Diamondback Capital Management LLC. Both hedge
funds were founded by former employees of SAC Capital Advisors
LP, the $12 billion hedge fund run by Steven A. Cohen. Lee
worked at Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC from 1999 to 2004. A
third hedge fund, Boston-based Loch Capital Management, was also
searched by agents, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  SAC and mutual funds Wellington Management Co. of Boston
and Denver-based Janus Capital Group Inc. have been asked for
documents as part of the probe.  Taiwan Liaison  Chu was Primary Global’s Taiwan liaison and worked there
about seven years,  Dan Charnas , a spokesman for the firm, said
in an e-mailed statement. The firm hasn’t been charged with any
wrongdoing.  “Based upon recent events, PGR has severed its
relationship with Mr. Chu,” he wrote.  In several conversations recorded by investigators, Chu,
who was born in Taiwan and became a U.S. citizen in 1987,
describes his access to numerous contacts in Asia willing to
share financial information about their employers.  An unnamed employee of Broadcom “probably gave Broadcom’s
revenue numbers before Broadcom’s quarter end because that is
what he does,” Chu is quoted as saying in the complaint.  Broadcom, based in Irvine, California, is the biggest maker
of chips for television set-top boxes.  Bill Blanning , a
spokesman, didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  Lee told Chu he was surprised that a contact provided by
Chu “gave me the number last quarter. It’s like on the spot.”  Chu replied, “On the spot. All depends on the person. Some
guys willing to talk, some are not.”  Sierra Wireless Revenue  Primary Global records show that Chu’s firm paid one
unnamed source more than $200,000 between about January 2008 and
about March 2010, prosecutors said.  FBI agents approached Chu on or about Nov. 21, according to
the complaint. In the meeting Chu said he knew that an employee
of Sierra Wireless met with hedge-fund clients in Taiwan and
“provided Sierra Wireless’s revenue numbers, average selling
price information and design wins,” referring to contracts to
sell a product design to another firm, FBI special agent B.J.
Kang said in the complaint.  Chu said he had listened to the conversation between his
hedge-fund client and the Sierra Wireless employee, Kang said.  Sierra Wireless said in a statement it is aware of the
complaint and is cooperating with the U.S. Attorney’s office in
New York.  Sharlene Myers , a spokeswoman for the Richmond,
British Columbia-based maker of wireless data-communications
equipment, declined to comment.  Atheros E-mail  In June 2009, Chu sent Lee an e-mail detailing Atheros’s
outlook for second-quarter earnings that the maker of wireless
local area networks had yet to report.  In an e-mail on or about Aug. 10, 2009, Lee told Chu he
wished to meet two Atheros contacts. “As you know, I am not in
a position to pay directly through trades, but perhaps I can buy
your friends a good meal.”  Chu responded, “It’s my pleasure to assist you.”  One of five employees of Atheros listed as consultants to
Primary Global was paid $15,260.79 between about January 2008
and about June 2010, according to the complaint.  Ali Hariri , a
former Atheros vice president, was sentenced to 18 months in
prison in the Galleon case on Nov. 8.  “If requested, Atheros will cooperate fully in any
government investigation,” the Santa Clara, California-based
company said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “At this time,
we have no further comment.”  The case is U.S. v. Chu, 10-Mag-2625, U.S. District Court
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 