-- Dubai Still Faces Challenges With Debt a Year After Dubai World's Workout
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2010-11-25T12:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/dubai-still-faces-challenges-with-debt-a-year-after-dubai-world-s-workout.html
A year after Dubai’s corporate
flagship stunned global markets with plans to freeze payments on
$25 billion in loans, the emirate is struggling to reduce a
total debt load more than four times that amount.  The immediate crisis triggered by Dubai World’s
announcement last Nov. 25 has passed. Lenders to the government-
owned group have agreed to accept a delay in repayments of $14.4
billion, and access to credit in the Middle East’s once-
flourishing trading and financial services hub is starting to
ease after the worst global recession since the 1930s.  Dubai and its state-controlled companies are grappling to
service debt that  Barclays Capital  estimated in a September
report to total about $112 billion -- equal to more than 140
percent of its gross domestic product. They amassed the loans
during years of rapid growth in the property and tourism
industries. One of seven sheikhdoms comprising the United Arab
Emirates, Dubai lacks the energy wealth of neighboring Abu Dhabi
and must boost revenue from trade and other businesses and by
selling assets, analysts say.  Dubai should use any revenue and money from asset sales
“to reduce the absolute debt burden,” said  Abdul Kadir Hussain , chief executive officer at Mashreq Capital DIFC Ltd.
“Until you see some momentum there, you are essentially going
to move from one restructuring to another.”  Property Bubble  Over the past year, Dubai moved to contain some of its
biggest problems, notably the impact of a collapsed real-estate
market. All of Dubai World’s creditors agreed to the company’s
$24.9 billion debt restructuring, a person with knowledge of the
plans said Oct. 27.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC , the U.A.E.’s
biggest Islamic lender, in September more than doubled its
holding in mortgage company  Tamweel PJSC  to 57.3 percent as part
of a plan to revive lending and support the property industry.  Tamweel and rival  Amlak Finance PJSC  were once the U.A.E.’s
biggest home-loan companies, but the seizure of global credit
markets shut their access to funds. Both these companies relied
on bulk borrowings from the market to fund home loans.  The restructuring of at least $10.5 billion of loans and
trade-creditor payments are at an advanced stage for property
company Nakheel PJSC, a former Dubai World unit and builder of
palm tree-shaped islands off Dubai’s coast. Similar talks are
under way to alter the terms on $2.6 billion of debt at Dubai
International Capital LLC and $6 billion at Dubai Group LLC, two
buyout companies owned by the emirate’s ruler,  Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum.   Bond Sale  The growing preference for emerging market debt this year
has helped. In September, Dubai raised $1.25 billion in a two-
part bond sale. It was the emirate’s first sovereign debt
offering since the Dubai World credit scare and generated orders
of $5 billion. The U.A.E.’s central bank and Abu Dhabi stepped
in last year to support Dubai with $20 billion in loans.  “The main cloud on the horizon is still the emirate’s
large debt overhang,”  Tristan Cooper , a Dubai-based economist
at Moody’s Investors Service, said in an e-mail yesterday.
“Despite the recent restructuring of Dubai World’s debt, the
emirate still faces substantial annual debt maturities.”  The seizure in credit markets has prevented some of Dubai’s
companies from raising new loans and has pushed up borrowing
costs for others. Dubai and its state-owned companies have $16
billion of syndicated bank loans and bonds coming due next year
and $15 billion maturing in 2012, said  Zafar Nazim , a London-
based analyst at JPMorgan Securities Ltd. This doesn’t include
debt that has been or is being restructured, he said in an e-
mail. Loans from single lenders could add $3.5 billion to $5
billion to maturities, Nazim said.  Fiscal Action  “Short-term, we feel far more positive than a year ago,
but longer-term risks remain,”  Gabriel Sterne , a London-based
emerging market economist at brokerage Exotix Holdings Ltd.,
said in an e-mail yesterday. “We think more fiscal action will
need to be implemented so that Dubai can smoothly manage its
2014 funding cliff without testing further Abu Dhabi’s apparent
willingness to provide continuing financial support.”  Dubai allowed foreigners to buy property in some parts of
the emirate in 2002, triggering a building boom and a
quadrupling of home prices until mid-2008. The credit crisis,
which drove away speculators and crimped mortgage lending,
caused home prices to plunge by more than 50 percent.  Dubai ran up debt as it tried to diversify its economy and
develop into a tourism and financial services center. It built
islands into the shape of a world map off the coast and opened a
stock exchange. Accessing cheap credit from 2005 to 2008,
Dubai’s investment companies bought  Madame Tussaud’s , luxury
goods retailer  Barneys New York Inc.  and a stake in U.S. casino
operator MGM Mirage.  Back to Basics  “Dubai has changed a lot in a year,” said  Philippe Dauba- Pantanacce , a Standard Chartered Plc economist in Dubai.
“Government policies have reoriented the emirate toward its
traditional core assets of trade, infrastructure and services.”  The contribution of the property industry to Dubai’s GDP
declined to 11 percent this year from 14 percent in 2009 and 17
percent in 2008, Dauba-Pantanacce said in an e-mail.  Hussain of Mashreq Capital pointed to a possible initial
public offering by Emirates, the world’s biggest airline by
international passengers carried, and sale of an additional
stake in DP World Ltd., the world’s fourth-biggest port
operator, as ways for the government to raise cash.  Dubai’s economy shrank 2.5 percent last year after
expanding by 5.7 percent in 2008, the government estimates.
Standard Chartered forecasts 4 percent growth in 2011.  Whether Dubai will be able to raise new loans to repay
older ones is largely a question of pricing, said Raj Madha, an
analyst at Rasmala Investment Bank Ltd.  “If Abu Dhabi is seen as fully backing Dubai, then there
won’t be a problem,” he said. “But if some element of doubt
were to creep in about their commitment, it would get more
difficult.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net . 