-- Dubai Mercantile Says Six Oman-Linked Swaps, Options to Start in December
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2010-11-25T13:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/dubai-mercantile-says-six-oman-linked-swaps-options-to-start-in-december.html
The  Dubai Mercantile Exchange , the
United Arab Emirates-based oil trading market, said six new
swaps and options contracts linked to its benchmark Oman crude
oil futures contract will begin trading in December.  The contracts, including Oman swap futures and gasoline
versus crude swap futures, will begin trading on Dec. 6, the
exchange said in an e-mailed statement today. The new contracts
will be listed by  CME Group Inc. , which is a shareholder in the
DME and owner of the New York Mercantile Exchange, and cleared
through CME Clearport.  “These new contracts will offer our customers greater
choice in addressing their risk management needs by providing
additional flexibility in hedging and trading,” DME Chairman
 Ahmad Sharaf  said in the statement. “It will also further
consolidate the DME Oman contract as the third global crude oil
pricing benchmark, alongside WTI and Brent.”  The DME is seeking to establish its Oman crude futures
contract, which gives investors the option to take physical
deliveries, as the basis for Middle East producers to their
price oil, which is mostly shipped to Asia.  The standard for region is currently the average of the
Dubai and Oman price assessments that allow traders to take
delivery of oil from Dubai, Oman and Abu Dhabi’s Upper Zakum
field. Those assessments are published daily by Platts, the
energy-information division of McGraw-Hill Cos.  WTI, or West Texas Intermediate, and Brent are the main
benchmark prices for crude traded in the U.S. and European
markets respectively.  Briefing Traders  The DME said it will hold seminars in Tokyo and Singapore
on Dec. 7 and Dec. 9, respectively, to brief traders. The six
contracts are DME Oman Crude Oil Swap Futures; DME Oman Crude
Oil vs. ICE Brent Swap Futures; DME Oman Crude Oil Average Price
Option; Singapore MOGAS 92 Unleaded vs. DME Oman Crude Oil Swap
Futures; Singapore Gasoil vs. DME Oman Crude Oil Swap Futures;
and DME Oman Crude Oil BALMO Swap Futures.  MOGAS refers to motor gasoline and the relevant prices for
it and gasoil used for the DME swaps will be based on Platts
assessments, according to the statement. BALMO refers to the
balance of the month.  The exchange, located in the Dubai International Financial
Centre, is 25 percent-owned by the government, with CME and the
Oman Investment Fund each also owning a quarter.  Saudi Switch  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest exporter, began at the
start of this year pricing its oil to the U.S. at differentials
to the  Argus Sour Crude Index , a measure of high-sulfur oil
produced in the Gulf of Mexico, in place of the WTI price
published by Platts. Kuwait and Iraq followed suit, sparking
interest producers might eventually move the marker for Asian-
bound crude to the DME.  Traders like Vitol Group, a floor member and shareholder in
the DME, have supported such a switch, saying the exchange-
generated price for Oman oil is more transparent than the Platts
assessment, which is based on transaction data and surveys of
market participants.  Added clarity from a benchmark such as the DME will allow
buyers and sellers to better hedge risks and more effectively
price the region’s different oil grades independently of markers
such as Brent and WTI,  Chris Bake , managing director of Vitol
Dubai and a board member, said in a June 21 interview. Pricing
is still too heavily influenced by the cost of crude on London
and New York exchanges, he said.  “Responding to industry demand, the DME remains committed
to providing our customers with additional tools for their risk
management strategies,” DME Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Leaver  said in the statement.  Leaver has said he is targeting members of the six-nation
Gulf Cooperation Council to switch to the Oman contract as a
benchmark. Council members are Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United
Arab Emirates, Qatar, Oman and Bahrain.  The following is a table of the six new CME contracts:  - DME Oman Crude Oil Swap Futures
- DME Oman Crude Oil vs. ICE Brent Swap Futures
- DME Oman Crude Oil Average Price Option
- Singapore MOGAS 92 Unleaded (Platts) vs. DME Oman Crude Oil
  Swap Futures
- Singapore Gasoil (Platts) vs. DME Oman Crude Oil Swap Futures
- DME Oman Crude Oil BALMO Swap Futures  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net . 