-- Telstra's Thodey Gets $10.7 Billion War Chest After Senate Approves Split
-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-11-26T05:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/telstra-may-use-nbn-payments-to-fund-investments-acquisitions-ceo-says.html
Telstra Corp. , Australia’s biggest
phone operator, plans to acquire companies and technology using
the compensation it will get for giving up control of a copper-
wire network that connects all the nation’s homes.  The A$11 billion ($10.7 billion) payment will help fund
investments in wireless, entertainment and so-called cloud-
computing services, Chief Executive Officer  David Thodey  said in
an interview in Hong Kong yesterday. Australia’s Senate today
approved the transfer of Telstra’s fixed-line grid to state-run
NBN Co. to become the backbone for a national broadband network.  Telstra will retain its retail network as the government
spends A$35.7 billion to bring a fiber-optic network to 93
percent of Australian homes in the nation’s largest
infrastructure project. The Melbourne-based company may also use
some of the proposed payout for share buybacks and  dividends ,
Thodey said.  “Even small acquisitions can make the market nervous
because they usually precede bigger deals,” said  Theo Maas , who
helps manage about $5 billion at Arnhem Investment Management in
Sydney, including Telstra stock. “I would much rather see a
return of capital to shareholders if they don’t need it for the
capital expenditure going forward.”  Telstra has gained 8.8 percent this week as Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard  won support from independent lawmakers for the
structural separation and compensation. The stock fell 1 percent
to A$2.85 at the 4:10 p.m. close in Sydney trading and has
declined 17 percent this year, compared with the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index’s 5.6 percent drop.  Profit Pools  “Having the cash gives us the flexibility,” Thodey said.
“We have got to create new revenue and profit pools in the
business.”  Telstra  hasn’t determined the portion of the NBN-related
payout that it will allocate for investments, dividends and
share buybacks, Thodey said.  The company will hand over assets to NBN, which will build
the nationwide network by 2018. The operator will then join
rivals including Singapore Telecommunications Ltd.’s Optus in
leasing infrastructure from the government.  Gillard this week released part of the NBN’s corporate plan,
boosted consumer protection under the planned network, and
established a committee to oversee its rollout to woo
independent Senators  Steve Fielding  and  Nick Xenophon , who were
earlier opposed to her move. The government already has the
support of the Australian Greens party.  Parliament Sitting  Parliament in the capital Canberra extended its sitting to
today as debate continued on the legislation to split Telstra’s
businesses. Both houses of parliament are scheduled to debate
the broader national broadband plan next year.  The expected A$11 billion payment to Telstra is also meant
to offset revenue losses from its fixed-line operations. The
amount will be distributed over 10 years and will be adjusted to
reflect the so-called NPV, or net present value, Thodey said.  The compensation is subject to shareholder approval at a
vote scheduled for next year.  Telstra said Nov. 19 its board is concerned about the
company’s “undervalued” share price and intends to maintain a
dividend payment of 28 Australian cents this year and next.  Thodey also plans to invest to expand in Asia. Telstra owns
stakes in Chinese online businesses including Sequel Ltd. and
Octave Investments, in addition to CSL New World Mobility Ltd.,
Hong Kong’s second-largest mobile-phone operator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net . 