-- Merkel, Sarkozy Say Irish Talks Must Conclude Quickly
-- B y   J a n n   B e t t i n g a
-- 2010-11-26T03:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/merkel-sarkozy-say-irish-rescue-talks-must-conclude-quickly.html
(Corrects date of Irish request in third paragraph of story
originally published yesterday.)  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said rescue talks with Ireland
must conclude quickly and said the bailout fund set up in May to
protect the euro will remain unchanged until 2013.  Both agreed that “negotiations with the  Irish  government
must be brought to a speedy resolution,” German government
spokesman  Steffen Seibert  said in an e-mailed statement, today
citing a telephone call between the two leaders. “They
emphasized afresh that the euro’s safety umbrella will remain
unchanged until 2013.”  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  on Nov. 21 asked the
European Union for a bailout that may amount to 85 billion euros
($114 billion) as his government struggles to prop up the
country’s banks. Contagion from the Irish crisis has spread
through the euro region, stoking speculation that the euro
region’s 750 billion-euro rescue fund isn’t large enough to bail
out Spain should that be necessary.  The European Commission is pushing Germany to double the
fund’s size, Die Welt said yesterday, citing no one. A spokesman
for Germany’s finance ministry yesterday said the issue
“doesn’t arise.” The commission said it has no plan to
increase the fund’s size.  Sarkozy and Merkel, who discussed “current problems in the
eurozone,” said their governments are working “intensively”
on a joint proposal to introduce a “permanent crisis
mechanism” for the euro region that will take effect after 2013.  ‘Crunch Issues’  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  told reporters today
that aid discussions are making good progress and reaching
“crunch issues.”  The government plans to cut spending by
about 20 percent and raise taxes over the next four years.  Lenihan wants to maintain Ireland’s 12.5 percent corporate
tax rate, criticized by some European governments such as
Austria. Hewlett-Packard Co., the world’s largest computer maker,
said this week it may reconsider its investment in Ireland
should the country raise its company tax rate as part of an aid
accord.  Merkel and Sarkozy are “impressed” by government’s budget
cutting plans, today’s statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jann Bettinga  at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  