-- EU Said to Seek Liquidity Exams in Bank Stress Tests
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-11-25T18:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/eu-says-seeking-ways-to-improve-bank-stress-tests-for-2011.html
The  European Commission  is pushing
to include tests on bank liquidity in next year’s round of
European Union stress tests in the wake of Ireland’s financial
turmoil, according to two people familiar with the discussions.  The possible changes follow concerns that the last tests,
made public in July, didn’t show that banks could withstand
funding crises, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private.  This year’s Europe-wide stress tests focused on the levels
of capital banks had to absorb losses and didn’t measure the
risks posed by a lack of liquidity. Regulators will gather data
for the tests at the start of next year, under the guidance of
the European Banking Authority, the European Central Bank and
the commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm.  “You need a clear view of what will be liquid and what
won’t be and there are too many variables,”  Simon Gleeson , a
financial regulatory lawyer at Clifford Chance LLP, said in a
telephone interview in London today. “That’s why it hasn’t been
done yet -- it’s very easy to call for but very difficult to do
in practice.”  During preparations for this year’s EU stress tests, some
nations indicated that it would be difficult to compare banks’
liquidity, said one of the people familiar with the discussions.  Irish Bailout  Ireland is in talks with the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  on an 85 billion-euro ($113.7
billion) aid package as the authorities seek to avoid the
nation’s financial crisis spreading to Portugal and Spain.
Ireland’s financial system imploded after banks racked up losses
when a decade-long real-estate boom ended.  Allied Irish Banks Plc and Bank of Ireland Plc passed the
European stress tests on their capital holdings. Anglo Irish
Bank Corp. wasn’t tested. Germany’s  Hypo Real Estate Holding AG ,
Agricultural Bank of Greece SA and five Spanish savings banks
failed EU-wide stress tests on 91 banks in July.  Stress tests measure banks’ ability to withstand economic
crises. The scenarios this year included securitized debt
products being downgraded four levels by credit ratings
companies, a 20 percent fall in the value of European equities
in both 2010 and 2011, falls in real estate prices and tests in
50 other macroeconomic parameters.  The tests were criticized for not being stringent enough
because European banks were shown by regulators to need only 3.5
billion euros of new capital, about a tenth of the lowest
analyst estimate.  ‘Demanding’  The next stress tests will be “demanding,”  Jonathan Faull , director general of financial services at the commission,
said at a conference hosted by the French markets regulator in
Paris.  Regulators are “going to try and draw all the lessons from
this year to try and improve” the stress-test methodology,
 Chantal Hughes , a commission spokeswoman, told reporters in
Brussels. The European Banking Authority, or EBA, is scheduled
to carry out the 2011 test “sometime towards the beginning of
next year,” she said.  Within the past two weeks, Ireland’s three publicly quoted
lenders reported an outflow of deposits since the end of June,
amid concerns that bad-loan losses will exceed stress tests
carried out by the country’s central bank. Irish lenders’
reliance on emergency European Central Bank liquidity rose a
further 7.3 percent to 130 billion euros in October, Ireland’s
central bank said on Nov. 1, as they were frozen out of
wholesale markets.  Lost Deposits  Allied Irish, Bank of Ireland and Irish Life & Permanent
Group Holdings Plc “lost 12 billion euros, 10 billion euros and
600 million euros of corporate deposits, respectively, since
end-June,” said  Emer Lang , an analyst with Dublin-based
securities firm Davy, in a note to clients on Nov. 24.  “We fully cooperated” with the European “stress tests in
the past and would continue to do so,”  Ronan Sheridan , a
spokesman for Allied Irish, said in a phone interview.  Anne Mathews , a spokeswoman for Bank of Ireland, declined
to comment. Spokespeople for Anglo Irish declined to immediately
comment.  Ray Gordon , spokesman for Irish Life & Permanent,
couldn’t be immediately reached for comment.  Heidi Ashley , spokeswoman at the U.K. Financial Services
Authority,  William Lelieveldt , a spokesman at the European
Central Bank, and Franca Rosa Congiu, spokeswoman at the
Committee of European Banking Supervisors declined to comment.
The EBA will replace London-based CEBS in January.  Liquidity measures banks’ reserves of readily available
assets and cash that can be used to pay off liabilities.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Ben Moshinsky  in
Brussels at   bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  