-- Euro Falls to Two-Month Low on European Debt Crisis Concerns; Aussie Drops
-- B y   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-11-26T07:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/euro-trades-near-two-month-low-on-concern-ireland-debt-crisis-will-spread.html
The euro fell to a two-month low
against the dollar amid concerns Europe’s sovereign-debt burdens
are worsening as its economic recovery slows, diminishing the
appeal of the region’s assets.  The common currency headed for a weekly decline versus 14
of its 16 major peers after the Financial Times Deutschland
reported that euro-area policy makers are pushing Portugal to
seek assistance from a 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) bailout
fund. The dollar rose to a seven-week high versus the yen as
concern the conflict between North and South Korea will escalate
boosted demand for the safety of the greenback.  “This government debt crisis in Europe has further to
run,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney. “Portugal and Spain
have shaky government finances, so their bond markets might go
through a period of selloff. In that sort of environment, you
would expect the euro to sell down further.”  The euro declined to $1.3281 as of 7:03 a.m. in London from
$1.3360 in New York yesterday, after earlier reaching $1.3265,
the lowest since Sept. 22. The single currency has fallen 2.9
percent this week. It sank to 111.47 yen from 111.69 yen.  The dollar advanced to 83.93 yen from 83.60 yen, after
earlier touching 83.96 yen, the strongest since Oct. 5. The U.S.
currency reached $1.5698 per pound, the strongest since Oct. 26.
The dollar rose to as high as 1.0031 francs, the strongest since
Sept. 21, before trading at 1.0016 from 1.0006.  Pressure on Portugal  By putting pressure on the Portuguese government, the
European Central Bank and countries in the currency union aim to
prevent a bailout of Spain, Financial Times Deutschland said.
The newspaper sent an e-mail preview of a report to be published
in today’s edition that cites unidentified people within
Germany’s finance ministry. Portugal faces a final vote in
parliament today on its 2011 spending plan, which includes
measures to pare its deficit.  Borrowing costs  for the euro region’s most-indebted nations
are surging as Ireland’s capitulation in accepting a bailout of
its banking industry stokes speculation that other countries
also will have to seek aid. The average yield investors demand
to hold 10-year debt from Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and
Italy reached 7.52 percent yesterday, a euro-era record.  Irish Finance Minister Brian Lenihan said yesterday that
while the size of a bailout from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  hasn’t yet been determined, an
amount of around 85 billion euros “has been mentioned.” The
government said this week it will cut spending by about 20
percent and raise taxes over the next four years.  ‘Tentative’ Recovery  “The Irish budget and bailout have not calmed market
nerves, and the market has now turned its attention to
Portugal,” said  David Forrester , a currency economist at
Barclays Capital in Singapore. Gains in euro-area bond yields
relative to German bunds put “downward pressure on the euro.”  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
bonds instead of their German counterparts rose to 6.32
percentage points, while the spread of Portugal’s 10-year debt
over German bunds climbed to 4.31 points yesterday.  France’s consumer spending fell 0.5 percent in October from
September, when it rose 1.5 percent, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists before today’s report. Europe’s
recovery will remain “tentative” for the next two years, with
a risk of a setback if the region’s debt crisis isn’t resolved,
a group of European research institutes said today.  The euro has fallen 2.6 percent over the past month in a
measure of 10 developed-nation counterparts, Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes show. The dollar is up 2.1
percent, while the yen has dropped 1.2 percent.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, advanced to as
high as 80.153, the strongest since Sept. 24.  U.S. Carrier  The dollar gained for a third day versus the yen as North
Korea’s state-run Korean Central News Agency said planned naval
exercises by South Korea and the U.S. moved the peninsula
“closer to the brink of war.”  President  Barack Obama  has dispatched the USS George
Washington to take part in military drills, scheduled for Nov.
28 to Dec. 1 in the Yellow Sea off the western coast of the
Korean peninsula. The U.S. sent the aircraft carrier in a show
of strength after North Korea this week shelled a South Korean
island. North Korea warned that any “escalated confrontation”
will lead to war, KCNA said in an e-mailed statement.  “There seem to be ongoing tensions between the Koreas, and
Japan is geographically close to them,” said  Masanobu Ishikawa ,
general manager of foreign exchange at Tokyo Forex & Ueda Harlow
Ltd. “This may be causing some buying of the dollar and selling
of the yen.”  South Korea’s won dropped 1.9 percent to 1,159.63 per
dollar, the sharpest daily drop since June 25.  Australia’s dollar weakened for a second day after Reserve
Bank Governor Glenn Stevens said his country’s interest rate
setting is appropriate, damping prospects for early increases.  Stevens’ statement suggests the “RBA is pretty comfortable
with the current level of policy and will hardly change it,”
said  Greg Gibbs , a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in Sydney. “The market hasn’t got another hike fully
priced in until July next year.”  The Australian dollar slid 1.2 percent to 96.95 U.S. cents,
and slid 0.8 percent to 81.36 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  