-- Euro-Area States Must `Roll Up Sleeves,' Not Rely on Germany, Meister Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2010-11-25T12:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/euro-area-states-must-roll-up-sleeves-not-rely-on-germany-meister-says.html
Euro-area governments can’t rely on
endless German aid to bail them out and instead have to be
“more credible” in cutting their budget deficits, a senior
member of Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party said.  “The answer can’t be to make things easier” for over-
indebted countries,  Michael Meister , the parliamentary finance
spokesman for Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc, said yesterday
in an interview in Berlin. “The answer must be for them to roll
up their sleeves and tackle the problems they’ve identified.”  German experience over the past decade of the euro shows
that peripheral countries have failed to use cheaper financing
to make their economies more competitive, said Meister,
rejecting the idea of joint bond sales by euro members in which
Germany would share its benefit of lower borrowing costs.  Meister refused to accept German responsibility for fanning
the debt crisis that has driven bond yields in Spain and
Portugal to records, underscoring mounting frustration that
Germans are being left to pick up the tab for fellow euro-area
members. “Must we end up paying for the whole of Europe,” said
a headline yesterday in Bild, Germany’s best-selling newspaper.  Lawmakers “expect to hear a word of praise every once in a
while for the solidarity given to others instead of getting
criticism all the time,” said Meister.  Germany, as Europe’s biggest economy, agreed to contribute
as much as 148 billion euros ($197 billion) to the 750 billion-
euro rescue fund set up in May to prevent the Greek crisis from
spilling over into the wider 16-nation euro area, the largest
share of any country. European Central Bank council member  Axel Weber  said late yesterday that governments can increase the size
of the bailout fund if needed.  Patience Running Out  The patience of lawmakers in Merkel’s coalition is “not
without limits” and “the willingness to take further
decisions” involving German taxpayers’ money “rather small,”
Meister said.  There’s a need for “alternative solutions” rather than
additional aid measures, said Meister. He backed Merkel’s push
for a permanent crisis-resolution mechanism for the euro region
from 2013 to shift the burden of bailouts from taxpayers to
investors, saying that “no alternatives have been presented.”  Merkel’s stance “hasn’t been helpful,” Irish Prime
Minister  Brian Cowen  said in an interview with the Irish
Independent newspaper published Nov. 12, nine days before
Ireland sought a bailout package. Spanish Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  said the same day that he opposes
Merkel’s plan, so “it won’t be easy” for her to get her way at
a Dec. 16-17 summit of European Union leaders which is due
discuss the step.  ‘Bring Clarity’  Germany wants buyers of new euro-region bonds to accept
liability clauses starting in 2011, two years before the new
crisis mechanism kicks in, a Finance Ministry document shows.
Meister said introducing the so-called collective action clauses
early may smooth the transition.  “The faster we can bring clarity to markets about the
shape of future regulation, the better,” he said. “We can help
calm markets down if we start implementing elements of future
regulation now.”  The premium on  Spanish debt  over German bunds rose to a
euro-era record yesterday. The extra yield investors demand to
hold 10-year Portuguese government bonds instead of benchmark
German bunds widened to 429 basis points.  The countries concerned, not Merkel, are to blame for
widening spreads, according to Meister.  “The only thing that can be done now is to take credible
measures that give a signal to markets,” Meister said. “The
countries concerned can only convince markets through clearly-
structured, decisive action.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  