-- ECB's Weber Says Europe's Rescue Fund Could Be Increased If More Needed
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2010-11-25T17:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/europe-s-1-trillion-stability-fund-may-need-to-be-increased-weber-says.html
European Central Bank council member
 Axel Weber  said governments can increase the size of the
European Union-led bailout fund if necessary to restore
confidence in the euro.  “Seven hundred and fifty billion should be enough to
assure the markets,” Weber said at the German embassy in Paris
late yesterday. “If not, it will have to be increased.” In a
worst-case scenario, the fund would need an additional 140
billion euros ($187 billion), an amount that would not
jeopardize the survival of the euro, Weber said in Berlin today.  Contagion from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis is spreading
to Spain, sparking concern that the bailout fund set up in May
isn’t large enough to rescue the euro region’s fourth-largest
economy. The premium on  Spanish debt  over German bunds rose to a
euro-era record yesterday and Portugal’s bonds fell on concern
they will follow Ireland and Greece in asking for external aid.  “It is far from certain whether the fund can be increased
as easily as that,” given governments may face domestic
resistance to a top-up request, Commerzbank AG analysts wrote in
a research note today. “So there is a danger that markets are
going to consider this statement to be premature, thus
increasing market skepticism regarding the ability to act among
those responsible.”  Spain’s economy is almost twice the size of Portugal,
Greece and Ireland combined. Deputy Finance Minister Jose Manuel Campa  said in an interview yesterday the country’s funding
position for the rest of the year is “comfortable.”  Spanish Yield  The yield on Spain’s 10-year government bond rose to 5.17
percent at 4:37 p.m. in London. The euro traded at $1.3370.  The European Union and the International Monetary Fund
established the 750 billion-euro fund in May after Greece’s
near-default threatened the survival of the single currency.
 Klaus Regling , who runs the largest part of the fund, told Bild-
Zeitung in an interview published today that it’s large enough
for all member states.  Germany, which today ruled out expanding the fund, is
resisting pressure from the European Commission to double its
size, Die Welt newspaper reported without saying where it got
the information.  Weber said in Berlin today that if Greece, Ireland,
Portugal and Spain were unable to refinance government debt -- a
scenario he considers inconceivable -- rescue funds of 1.07
trillion euros would be needed.  140 Billion Euros  About 925 billion euros has already been committed through
the 750-billion euro rescue fund, the 110-billion euro Greek aid
package and the 65 billion euros of ECB bond purchases, leaving
a shortfall of about 140 billion euros, Weber said. “The euro
won’t fail as a result of this difference.”  Weber, who has said the ECB needs to start withdrawing some
of its emergency stimulus measures next year, said governments
will “do what is necessary to see the euro maintained.”  A leading candidate to take over from  Jean-Claude Trichet 
as head of the ECB next year, Weber backed German government
proposals to create a permanent crisis-resolution mechanism once
the bailout fund expires in 2013.  “In order not to distort incentives for investors, private
creditors shouldn’t be relieved of their responsibility,” said
Weber, who heads Germany’s Bundesbank. Future aid for euro-
member states should be tied to “strict conditions” and only
be used “when the stability of the monetary union as a whole is
in danger,” he said.  Ireland on Nov. 21 applied to the EU for a rescue to bail
out its banking system. Weber said the ECB “welcomes”
Ireland’s request for help and is “confident” the package will
help stabilize the country’s financial system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Deen  in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  