-- Euro Snaps 3-Day Drop Versus Dollar as Weber Says Fund Will Be Adequate
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-11-25T22:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/euro-declines-as-spain-portugal-yields-climb-irish-trading-costs-rise.html
The euro strengthened against the
dollar as European Central Bank Governing Council Member  Axel Weber  said the rescue fund for indebted nations is sufficiently
capitalized to calm the region’s financial markets.  Europe’s 16-nation currency rose for the first day in four
against its U.S. peer after falling to a two-month low
yesterday. The euro gained versus 12 of its 16 most-actively
traded counterparts, rising for a second day against Japan’s
yen. The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600  Index  rose 0.5 percent. U.S.
markets are closed today for the Thanksgiving holiday.  “Weber’s comments may have helped lift some of the gloom
surrounding the euro,” said  Jane Foley , senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Rabobank International in London. “International
investors may be looking at the bigger picture, seeing a very
strong German economy, and they aren’t so bogged down in the
euro monetary union story.”  The euro gained 0.2 percent to $1.3360 at 5 p.m. in New
York. It slumped to $1.3285 in New York yesterday, its weakest
level since Sept. 22. It hasn’t declined for four consecutive
days since Aug. 24. The euro appreciated 0.3 percent against the
yen, rising to 111.69 yen from 111.40. Japan’s currency was at
83.60 per dollar from 83.54 yesterday.  EFSF  The European Commission, the European Union’s executive
arm, has no plan to increase the size of the 440 billion-euro
($588 billion) European Financial Stability Facility, spokesman
 Amadeu Altafaj  said today by e-mail. Die Welt earlier reported
that Germany is resisting a push from the commission to double
the size of the fund. The newspaper didn’t cite anyone.  “The issue of expanding the EFSF doesn’t arise,” finance
ministry spokesman  Bertrand Benoit  said today in Berlin. “Just
one member state has asked to tap the facility and we’re far
from having to discuss the issue of capacity.”  A report yesterday showed German  business confidence 
unexpectedly surged to a record high in November as domestic
spending increased, bolstering the economic outlook. The Munich-
based  Ifo institute  said its  business climate index  rose to
109.3 from 107.7 in October. That’s the highest since records
for a reunified Germany began in 1991.  The euro slipped to $1.3287, close to its weakest level
against the dollar in two months earlier today as rising
borrowing costs in Spain and Portugal stoked concern that the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis will worsen.  Funding Needs  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of German securities with a similar maturity
widened to 250 basis points today, a euro-era record. Portugal’s
10-year yield added 1 basis point to 7 percent.  Spanish bonds declined even as Deputy Finance Minister  Jose Manuel Campa  said the nation’s funding for the rest of the year
remains “comfortable” and the government doesn’t expect
problems tapping financial markets.  LCH Clearnet raised the extra margin requirement it charges
for Irish bond trading to 45 percent of net positions. Ireland
this week became the second euro-area country to seek a
financial bailout from the European Union and the International
Monetary Fund as the yield premium investors demand to hold the
nation’s debt instead of German bonds surged.  The Swedish krona slipped 0.3 percent to 9.2884 against the
euro after consumer confidence declined. Sweden’s currency
declined against 14 of the 16 most-actively traded currencies,
falling the most against the Korean won.  Krona, Franc  An index measuring confidence fell to 22.6 in November
from 23.4 the previous month, the Swedish National Institute of
Economic Research said in a report published today.
Manufacturing confidence rose to 8 from 5, NIER said.  The Swiss franc weakened 0.4 percent to 0.9994 per dollar.
It lost as much as 0.6 percent to 99.80 Swiss centimes per
dollar earlier today and closed above parity with the U.S.
currency for the first time since Sept. 20. The franc traded 0.7
percent weaker against the euro, at 1.3369 from 1.3280.  China may need to use reserve ratios and interest rates to
control excess liquidity, People’s Bank of China adviser  Xia Bin 
said at a conference in Shanghai today. China will use
quantitative and price tools to manage liquidity, PBOC deputy
governor  Hu Xiaolian  said in a statement posted on the central
bank’s website yesterday.  The Chinese yuan gained for the first time in five days,
appreciating 0.06 percent to 6.6497, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade.  “Everyone knows that inflation is an issue in China and
this could come back to the fore, and on top of that there are
the problems in the periphery of Europe that carry on,”
Rabobank’s Foley said.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the currency against those of six major U.S. trading
partners including the euro, rose to its strongest level in two
months. The index gained as much as 0.2 percent to 80.001, the
highest since Sept. 24, before slipping to 79.682.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  