-- European Stocks Rise as Weber Says EU Rescue Fund Has Sufficient Capital
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-11-25T17:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/european-stock-index-futures-climb-repsol-verbund-commerzbank-may-move.html
European stocks rose as Deutsche
Bundesbank President Axel Weber said the euro area rescue fund
has sufficient capital to calm financial markets and as real-
estate shares increased across the continent.  Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc  soared 13 percent, its
largest gain since at least 1992, after saying Simon Property
Group Inc. may make a cash offer for the company. Rio Tinto
Group climbed 2.2 percent, leading basic-resource companies
higher across Europe.  Bank of Ireland Plc  fell for a fourth day,
losing 3.8 percent, as CreditSights Inc. said Irish banks may
need as much as 30 billion euros ($40.1 billion) of new capital.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 0.5 percent to
267.72 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The gauge rebounded
yesterday as Ireland’s government unveiled a four-year deficit-
cutting plan and talks to bail out the country’s banks neared
their conclusion. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures added 0.3
percent. U.S. markets are closed today for the Thanksgiving
holiday.  “The main cause for concern is the debt crisis in
peripheral Europe, but overall the fundamental healthiness of
the global economy is not affected at all,” said  Markus Steinbeis , head of equity portfolio management at the
Unterfoehring, Germany-based unit of Pioneer Investments KGmbH,
which oversees about $221 billion globally. “There’s no reason
to be overly concerned about a big correction. Some investors
are still on the sideline.”  Bailout Fund  Axel Weber , who is also a European Central Bank Governing
Council member, said there’s no alternative to the European
currency union and the bailout fund has enough money to calm
markets.  “I think we can rule out” the pessimistic scenario that
the fund could be exhausted, Weber said in a panel discussion in
Berlin today. “We’ll do everything to safeguard the existence
of the euro,” he added.  Contagion from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis has spread to
Spain, sparking concern that the bailout fund set up in May
isn’t big enough to rescue the euro region’s fourth-largest
economy. Spain saw its  borrowing costs  surge to an eight-year
high today.  National benchmark indexes rose in 13 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index gained 0.7 percent
and Germany’s DAX Index increased 0.8 percent, while France’s
CAC 40 Index advanced 0.3 percent.  Capital Shopping Soars  Capital Shopping Centres jumped 13 percent to 381 pence,
the best performance in the  Stoxx 600 . The company said it
received a letter from Simon Property in which the real estate
investment trust said it’s mulling an offer for more than
Capital Shopping’s net asset value.  Separately, the mall owner agreed to buy the Trafford
Centre near Manchester in northwest England for 747.6 million
pounds ($1.2 billion) in stock, the highest price ever paid for
a British shopping center.  The stock was raised to “hold” from “sell” at Panmure
Gordon & Co. Plc.  European real estate shares posted  the second-best
performance  among 19 industry groups, rising 1.9 percent.
Hammerson Plc surged 4.8 percent to 405.8 pence, British Land
Co. climbed 2.9 percent to 492 pence and Land Securities Group
Plc added 2.4 percent to 654.5 pence.  Basic resources shares recorded the best performance on the
Stoxx 600, gaining 2.1 percent, as Rio Tinto and  Anglo American
Plc  climbed 2.2 percent to 4,269.5 pence and 2.7 percent to
2,985.5 pence, respectively.  Bank of Ireland  Bank of Ireland , Ireland’s largest bank, slid 3.8 percent
to 25.6 euro cents, extending its weekly decline to 47 percent,
the biggest in two years.  Allied Irish Banks Plc  slumped 12
percent to 30 euro cents.  Allied Irish Banks and Bank of Ireland, the nation’s
biggest lenders, will probably have to boost their so-called
core Tier 1 ratio to 15 percent from 8 percent, analyst  Simon Adamson  wrote in a note today. Allied Irish needs 9.1 billion
euros and Bank of Ireland needs 4.5 billion euros, based on
CreditSights’ analysis of the banks’ latest financial reports.  Moody’s Investors Service placed on review for a possible
downgrade the short-term bank deposit and debt ratings of Bank
of Ireland, EBS Building Society and Irish Life & Permanent
Group Holdings Plc, the ratings firm said in a statement today.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA  dropped 1.2 percent to 2.14 euros.
 Corrado Passera , the chief executive officer of Italy’s second-
biggest bank, confirmed that the lender made a binding offer for
Polbank, the Polish unit of Greece’s EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA,
and is awaiting a response.  Daily Mail & General Trust Plc  slumped 3.5 percent to 544.5
pence after the publisher of Britain’s Daily Mail newspaper said
sales declined 4.6 percent to 1.97 billion pounds, compared with
the 1.99 billion-pound average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 