-- European Banks ‘Nearly Bust’ If Euro Collapses, Evolution Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2010-11-25T10:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/european-banks-nearly-bust-if-euro-were-left-to-collapse-evolution-says.html
The European banking system would be
“nearly bust” if the euro were to be abandoned which means the
16-member currency “cannot and should not go,” Evolution
Securities Ltd. said.  “If the euro is abandoned, and we go back to the peseta,
lira, escudo, drachma etc., devaluations would follow
immediately,” said  Arturo de Frias , head of bank research at
Evolution in a note to investors today, adding the industry is a
“great buying opportunity.” Devaluations mean write-offs “of
a size that would render the whole European banking system
completely insolvent.”  Contagion from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis is spreading
to Spain, sparking concern that the European rescue fund set up
in May isn’t large enough. French, German and U.K. banks could
lose 360 billion euros ($479 billion) if the euro collapsed,
assuming a 30 percent devaluation in the wake of the restoration
of national currencies, said de Frias.  The damage caused by the abandonment of the euro would be
such that such an outcome is impossible and the “only way
forward” for Europe is fiscal union, he said.  “It is simply too late,” he wrote. “There are too many
cross-border investments in Europe to go back to national
currencies.”  If Spain, Italy, Greece, Portugal and Ireland devalue by 30
percent on the way to readopting national currencies, total
losses for German banks alone would be 120 billion euros, said
de Frias. That’s almost half the total equity of German lenders,
he said.  Banks Undervalued  In such a scenario, losses at U.K. banks would reach 80
billion euros, equivalent to nearly half the equity of  Barclays
Plc , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Lloyds Banking Group
Plc., he said.  “And this is only the banks. What would happen with the
investments of the large European multinationals” like  Siemens
AG , Tesco Plc and others. “More multi-billion losses, and
future profits lost.”  Once it’s clear that the euro will survive, “it will
become clear that some of our banks are 50 percent, 70 percent
or 80 percent” undervalued, he wrote.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  