-- Mexico's Salinas Urges `Permanent' Attack on Cartels Amid Rising Deaths
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-11-25T06:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/mexico-s-salinas-urges-permanent-attack-on-cartels-amid-rising-deaths.html
Mexico’s former President  Carlos Salinas de Gortari  said the country must carry on current leader
 Felipe Calderon ’s fight against drug cartels beyond his
administration and that Mexico shouldn’t legalize drugs alone.  “President Calderon’s strategy has been brave,” Salinas,
who was president from 1988 until 1994, said in an interview
yesterday in Mexico City. “Any government has to continue a
decided and frontal attack against all cartels.”  A plan to legalize drugs in Mexico in a bid to curtail
cartel profits without other countries taking similar action
would be a mistake, Salinas said. Mexican presidents  Vicente Fox 
and  Ernesto Zedillo  have voiced support for legalization.  Calderon has deployed thousands of troops to areas where
traffickers are battling over drug routes to the U.S. Opposition
politicians and human rights groups have questioned the strategy
as deaths related to organized crime are heading for a record
this year and have surpassed 28,000 since Calderon took office
four years ago.  Killings this year have included the assassination of a
leading gubernatorial candidate, more than a dozen mayors, and
the massacre of 73 migrants. Deaths related to criminal groups
increased 85 percent in the second quarter from the same period
a year earlier, according to a July government report.  In the northern border states of Chihuahua and Tamaulipas,
where violence is most acute, murders rose 35 percent in the
first 10 months of 2010 to 1,796 compared with the same period
last year, according to Interior Ministry data.  Pemex Partnerships  Salinas urged Petroleos Mexicanos, Latin America’s largest
oil producer, to take advantage of legal revisions approved by
lawmakers in 2008 that allow Pemex to form partnerships with
foreign companies with deep-water exploration experience and
better technology for mature fields. The rules may attract new
sources of investment. Pemex mostly relies on oil services
companies for equipment or labor.  “Rather than talking about another energy reform, the one
that was approved by congress needs to be reflected in
reality,” Salinas said.  Pemex said yesterday that its board approved the first
performance-based contracts for oil production based on the 2008
rules.  The ex-president said he would oppose any plan to privatize
Pemex, as the Mexico City-based company is known.  During Salinas’ tenure, Mexico, the U.S. and Canada
approved the North American Free Trade Agreement. His government
also led a wave of privatizations of state companies, including
 Carlos Slim ’s purchase of telephone company  Telmex , which
currently has 79 percent of the country’s land-line phone users.  Leading Polls  Salinas’ Institutional Revolutionary Party, which ruled
Mexico for 71 years until 2000, is leading in polls ahead of the
2012 presidential election.  The party’s  Enrique Pena Nieto , governor of the State of
Mexico, had 25 percent support in a poll released June 14 by
Mexico City-based Consulta Mitofsky. His closest rival, former
Mexico City Mayor  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , was backed by 6
percent of respondents.  “There is a lot of time left before that election,”
Salinas said when asked if he thought the party would take back
the presidency in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  at 
 Jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  