-- Ford Adds 40 China Dealers as It Targets Record Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-25T06:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/ford-to-open-66-new-dealerships-in-china-by-the-end-of-2010.html
Ford Motor Co. , the second-biggest
U.S. automaker, opened 40 dealerships in China today and plans
to add a further 26 by year’s end as it aims for record sales in
the world’s largest auto market.  The dealerships opened in north and west China today are
part of a plan to add a total 100 new outlets this year, it said
in an e-mailed statement. The company will also introduce a new
sport-utility vehicle next month in the country, it said.  The automaker, based in Dearborn, Michigan, is expanding in
China and India where rising disposable incomes and economic
growth spur demand for automobiles. Ford expects 70 percent of
its growth in the next 10 years to come from the Asia-Pacific
region and Africa, the company said.  Ford and its joint venture Changan Ford Mazda Automobile
Co. are building a new plant in the southwestern Chinese city of
Chongqing and also plan to set up a new engine plant there. In
India, the automaker invested $500 million this year to double
production capacity and started selling a new small car.  Ford’s sales in China this year through October rose 39
percent to 468,754 vehicles, according to the statement. The
company plans to have 340 dealerships in the nation by the end
of 2010.  The company expects record sales this year in China, the
overall Asia-Pacific region and Africa,  Joe Hinrichs , Ford’s
regional president, said in the statement.  Car sales in China rose at the fastest pace in six months
in October, while in India, passenger vehicle sales rose 38
percent to a record.  General Motors Co.  is also increasing its China
dealerships. The U.S. automaker and its partner SAIC Motor Corp.
will appoint more than 100 dealers by the first half of next
year to distribute the new Baojun brand cars, GM said in an e-
mailed statement on Nov. 23.  -- Tian Ying . Editors:  Ian Rowley ,  Vipin V. Nair   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tian Ying  in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  