-- Merkel Made Investors Fear `Unthinkable Problems,' Prodi Says
-- B y   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-11-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/former-eu-head-prodi-says-merkel-made-investors-fear-unthinkable-issues.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
warnings about the health of the euro region led investors to
dream up “unthinkable problems,” fueling market turmoil,
former European Commission President  Romano Prodi  said.  “They don’t help,” Prodi said of Merkel’s comments in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in Sarteano, Italy. “It may
be absolutely wise to say that the banks must share the burden
of, let’s say, unethical behavior, but this is not the moment, I
think. And when you do that, you must put all the technical
conditions on the table, because otherwise people will think of
unthinkable problems.”  The euro on Nov. 23 dropped to below $1.34 for the first
time since September after Merkel said the 16-nation currency
region is in “exceptionally serious” straits after Ireland
asked for a financial bailout. Borrowing costs have risen for
Europe’s so-called peripheral countries as contagion spreads
from the region’s debt crisis, with the premium on  Spain’s bonds 
over German bunds rising to a euro-era record yesterday.  Merkel is pushing a proposal to make bondholders share the
cost of any financial rescues after 2013, when a European-led
750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) bailout fund expires. Still, her
remarks give the impression “the Germans have been the victims
or the martyrs of the euro, and this is not true,” Prodi, a
two-time former prime minister of Italy, said in the interview
late yesterday. “Before the euro, there was no surplus in
Germany and now Germany has a fantastic, enormous surplus.”  ‘Solidarity’  Germany is ready to “act in solidarity” to help preserve
the single European currency, Merkel said yesterday in a speech
to business executives in Berlin. Germany wants “a strong
euro,” she said, pressing her plan for a permanent safety net
from 2013 if any euro country gets into debt trouble.  Ireland is set to become the first country to tap the
bailout fund, whose central pillar is the European Financial
Stability Facility. Its size may have to be increased if it’s
necessary to restore confidence in the euro, Deutsche Bundesbank
President  Axel Weber  said on Nov. 24 in Paris. Germany’s Finance
Ministry said yesterday it’s not considering expanding the EFSF
and Weber said later that the fund has sufficient capital.  Weber, speaking at a panel discussion yesterday in Berlin,
declined to comment on speculation he’s a candidate to become
president of the European Central Bank.  Mario Draghi , governor
of the Bank of Italy, is also seen as a possible candidate.  Draghi “deserves” the job, Prodi said, calling the Rome
native “brilliant, honest.” While the decision on a successor
to ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  may require a political
agreement, “I simply tell you, Draghi is first class.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Flavia Rotondi  in Rome at 
 frotondi@bloomberg.net ;
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 