-- Former Blue Index Directors, Trader Charged by U.K. With Insider Trading
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-11-25T16:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/former-blue-index-directors-trader-charged-with-insider-trading-by-fsa.html
Two former Blue Index Ltd. directors
and a trader at the London derivatives broker were charged with
insider dealing by the U.K. Financial Services Authority over
claims they traded before seven merger announcements.  Blue Index’s co-owners,  James Paul Sanders  and James
Swallow, and senior trader Christopher Hossain, were among five
people charged at a London police station, the FSA said in  a
statement  today. Former employee Adam Buck and Sanders’ wife,
Miranda Sanders, were also charged in the case.  All five were charged with seven counts of insider trading.
James Paul Sanders, 34, was charged with another three counts of
disclosing inside information, and along with Hossain was
accused of encouraging clients to trade contract-for-differences
related to two stocks. Blue Index was shut down after arrests
were made in the investigation in May 2009, the FSA said.  The Sanders “completely deny each and every one of the
allegations and have explained at length to the FSA why they
make those denials,” their lawyer, Kevin Robinson at the law
firm  Irwin Mitchell LLP , said today.  David Corker , a lawyer for Swallow, and Jill Lorimer,
Hossain’s attorney, declined to comment.  Katie Wheatley, a lawyer for Buck at  Bindmans LLP , said he
“looks forward to clearing his name in court.”  ‘Completely Innocent’  “Adam Buck is completely innocent of this charge and we
regret that it has been brought,” Wheatley said in an e-mail.
“He has cooperated with the FSA during their investigation of
this matter and he categorically denies the allegation made
against him.”  The FSA, which has targeted insider trading after winning
its first conviction in 2008, will keep its enforcement unit
after it is restructured into two new regulators by 2012. The
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  reversed plans
for an economic crime agency to prosecute insider trading and
market abuse, allowing it to be handled by the industry-funded
regulator instead.  The “FSA will be pleased to have this resolute action
taken as confirmation that the Chancellor was right to keep
intact its increasingly effective crime unit rather than hive it
off to the new economic crime agency,” said  Maxine Cupitt , a
lawyer at CMS Cameron McKenna, who isn’t involved in today’s
case.  Hossain, 35, of Essex, England, faces an additional count
of insider dealing before a merger announcement, and Swallow,
35, of London, on three other insider dealing counts. Buck, 34,
who also lives in London, was charged with another insider
dealing offense.  All five suspects were released on bail and are scheduled
to appear in a London criminal court next month.  The regulator executed search warrants at eight locations
in London and Essex, England, last year and arrested six
suspects.  The sixth person arrested last year and a 64-year-old man
arrested in September on suspicion of money laundering and
providing false information, won’t face charges, FSA spokesman
Chris Hamilton said.  Blue Index, founded in 2001, was a privately-owned
securities and derivates brokerage based in London’s financial
district that sold contracts-for-difference. It collapsed last
year after the FSA shut down its trading desk.  A contract-for-difference is a financial instrument that allows
investors to bet on shares or other securities without owning
them.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 