-- Gartmore’s Rise and Fall Hinged on Star Manager Who Beat Gross
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2010-11-25T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/gartmore-s-rise-and-fall-hinged-on-star-manager-guy-who-beat-gross-herro.html
Gartmore Group Ltd. , the U.K. fund
manager founded by the Cayzer shipping dynasty, has been sold
five times over the past 20 years. Its sixth sale, being run by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., will take place without its biggest
asset and liability -- star fund manager  Roger Guy .  Guy, 44, has outperformed  Bill Gross  and  David Herro , two
of Morningstar Inc.’s three fund managers of the decade, since
2000 as he ran Gartmore’s best-performing funds with partner
 Guillaume Rambourg , 39. His success made the firm too dependent
on their star managers and his exit has left it struggling to
stem client withdrawals and find a buyer a year after going
public, former employees and analysts say.  “They weren’t as good as  Warren Buffett , but they were
close,” said Joe Seet, senior partner at  Sigma Partnership , a
London hedge-fund advisory firm, and an investor in Gartmore’s
European Absolute Return fund run by Guy and Rambourg.
“Investors follow the manager. Talent is hard to come by and
very difficult to replace.”  Gartmore has promised to update investors by March on a
search for a buyer or merger partner after clients pulled 14
percent of their assets following Rambourg’s suspension last
March and Guy’s announced departure this month. Although Guy’s
rise from investment analyst to the firm’s highest revenue
producer over 17 years increased profits for its revolving door
of owners, his success caused a concentration of power within
the firm that was exposed on his departure, analysts and ex-
employees say.  Possible Buyers  Henderson Group Plc , Gartmore’s second-largest shareholder,
is a possible buyer while Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd. and
Newton Investment Management Ltd. may be potential merger
partners, according to  Sarah Ing , an analyst at Singer Capital
Markets Ltd. in London. Spokesmen for the three firms declined
to comment.  A number of companies have been building  stakes  in Gartmore
after the fund manager announced it was for sale. Swan Street
Partners LLP, managed by  John Zwaanstra , who founded Penta
Investment Advisers Inc., has a 4 percent stake, according to a
regulatory filing. Hedge fund Lansdowne Partners Ltd. has also
increased its holding, according to regulatory filings.  Short Sellers  The percentage of Gartmore shares outstanding on loan, a
measure of investors betting against the stock, has risen
sevenfold to 3.4 percent since Nov. 8, when Guy announced his
plans to leave, according to data compiled by Data Explorers, a
New York-based research firm. Short sellers borrow a stock and
sell it, in the hope of buying it back and returning it to its
original owner at a lower price later.  “Time is of the essence,” said Ing, who has a “fair
value” rating on the stock. “They’re in a period of corporate
uncertainty and that’s potentially negative for flows.”  Guy and Rambourg, who ran the European Absolute Return fund
and three hedge funds, accounted for 37 percent of the company’s
funds under management at the time of its initial public
offering in December. A $10,000 investment in their  AlphaGen
Capella  hedge fund at the beginning of January 2000 is now worth
$28,750, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Capella,
launched in 1999, was named after a star that outshines all
others in the Auriga constellation.  The same investment in Bill Gross’s Pacific Investment
Management Co.  Total Return Bond Fund  is worth $22,000 and
Herro’s  Oakmark International Fund  would have returned $24,200,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Buffett’s Returns  A $10,000 investment with Morningstar’s third fund manager
of the decade, in  Bruce Berkowitz ’s  Fairholme Fund , would have
returned $39,000. The same investment in Warren Buffett’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s Class A  shares would have returned
$21,130 since the beginning of 2000.  Gartmore, which has 20.7 billion pounds ($33 billion) of
assets under management, declined to make Guy available to
comment, and he didn’t answer questions e-mailed to his work
address. Rambourg couldn’t be reached for comment.  Guy and Rambourg’s importance was reflected in where they
sat at Gartmore, side by side for more than a decade in the
middle of the firm’s second floor, surrounded by executives,
brokers and analysts, in an office near the Tower of London, say
ex-colleagues. Every morning they led meetings before the
markets opened at 8 a.m. and would stay at those desks until as
late as 8 p.m.  “They were super efficient,” said  Paul Hondros ,
Gartmore’s chief executive officer from 2003 to 2006 and now
head of AlphaOne Capital Partners LLC in Pennsylvania. “They
would have morning meetings where no prisoners were taken. They
would systematically go through analysts, getting their best
ideas, holding them accountable. They were all about
performance. They were one of a kind.”  Odd Couple  While British-born Guy was the senior member of the
partnership with Rambourg, he had little interest in the firm’s
internal politics and was purely focused on stock-picking, ex-
colleagues said. Rambourg, a French Canadian from Ottawa, was
more social, playing softball with colleagues and finishing in
the top five percent of all runners in last April’s London
Marathon. Guy was a soccer fan who liked to take his son to
Arsenal games in north London.  On Jan. 21, they collected the award for 2009’s best
European Equity Fund from EuroHedge, an industry publication
that holds a black-tie annual awards dinner in London’s
Grosvenor House Hotel. Gartmore, founded in 1968 to invest the
wealth of the Cayzer family, which made its fortune in British
shipping, won three awards that night.  Managers Depart  Less than a year after Gartmore’s public offering, Guy and
Rambourg have departed, three other fund managers --  Gervais Williams ,  Darrell O’Dea  and  Dominic Rossi  -- quit and Gerry
Harvey, the firm’s head of compliance, has also left. Customers
have pulled or plan to pull $5.3 billion of assets and
Gartmore’s share price has dropped 53 percent to 101.5 pence a
share since its IPO on Dec. 14.  “It was not an unexpected item that suddenly blew up,”
said  Ian Poulter , a London-based analyst at Canaccord Genuity
with a “sell” rating on the stock. “People had been concerned
about the key-man risk to start with. The fact that it came up
so soon after flotation is something that clearly gave the stock
a real knock.”  Guy and Rambourg sold shares worth 23 million pounds
between them when Gartmore went public in December. After the
share sale, Guy held a 6 percent stake worth about 36 million
pounds, which has since fallen to about 17 million pounds. The
value of Rambourg’s 4 percent holding has dropped to about 12
million pounds from 25 million pounds at the IPO.  Key-Man Risk  Gartmore’s investors were warned about the risk of having
two key fund managers in its IPO  prospectus  published last year.
The company had “a concentration of assets under management
around one investment team,” citing Guy and Rambourg as “key
portfolio managers.”  Guy joined Gartmore from Eagle Star, an insurer then owned
by  British American Tobacco Plc , in 1993. He graduated from
Sussex University with a degree in economics in 1988 and
completed a postgraduate degree in European financial analysis
at Newcastle University the following year.  Rambourg, the son of United Nations diplomat, graduated in
1993 from ESSEC, one of France’s top business schools, after
majoring in finance, and joined Guy’s European equity team at
Gartmore two years later.  During Guy’s rise to become Gartmore’s top fee earner the
firm’s ownership was transferred between two banks, an insurer
and a private equity firm and between two continents, helping to
increase his personal influence within the company.  Multiple Sales  In 1990, the firm was bought by Banque Indosuez, a French
bank, for 132 million pounds. National Westminster Bank Plc paid
466 million pounds for Gartmore in 1996 and when NatWest was
acquired by  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in 2000 the company
was sold to Columbus, Ohio-based Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co.  Nationwide encouraged Guy and Rambourg’s to expand the
hedge fund business to diversify away from their less lucrative
mutual funds and increase its sales in Europe. The pair’s
average annual return in their $2.5 billion AlphaGen Capella
hedge fund was almost 15 percent from 2000 to the middle of
2006, when San Francisco-based private equity firm Hellman &
Friedman LLC paid 500 million pounds for a 52 percent stake.  Guy hired  Soditic Ltd. , a London-based investment bank, to
represent his and other key fund managers’ interests during the
sale to Hellman & Friedman. In 2009, three years after the deal
and immediately before the firm’s IPO, Guy was the biggest
individual shareholder in Gartmore, owning 8.45 percent of the
firm. Rambourg owned 5.73 percent.  Hellman & Friedman  “The revolving ownership may have weakened the management
and inhibited it from a more balanced strategic development,”
said  Keith Baird , an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. in London
who follows the U.K. asset-management industry. “That didn’t
appear to have an effect on Guy and Rambourg’s performance.”  Hellman & Friedman decided to sell shares in an initial
public offering last December and raised 280 million pounds,
which it used primarily to pay down debts incurred in acquiring
the company before the credit crisis. Hellman & Friedman
retained a 24 percent stake in the firm, making it Gartmore’s
largest shareholder. A spokeswoman declined to comment.  In March, Gartmore suspended Rambourg following an internal
probe that said he may have directed orders to buy and sell
shares to favored brokers.  The internal rule that Rambourg broke was a “safeguard”
put in place to make sure managers fulfilled the Financial
Services Authority’s requirement that a broker is chosen for his
execution services only, CEO  Jeffrey Meyer  said on a conference
call with analysts in April.  Shares Fall  Gartmore’s share price plunged by a third the day
Rambourg’s suspension was announced and a month later the
company’s compliance chief quit. Rambourg returned to work as an
investment analyst in April after law firm Clifford Chance LLP
conducted an internal review and said there was “no suggestion
of dishonesty” on his part and no clients suffered losses.  Asset managers are required to choose a broker based on
which one can best execute a trade rather than any personal
relationship, according to the European Union’s Markets in
Financial Instruments Directive. The rules are often a “gray
area” for fund managers and compliance officers, according to
 Jerome Lussan , founder of hedge-fund consultant Laven Partners
in London, who has no direct knowledge of the Rambourg case.  Guy said Gartmore’s “excessive” internal compliance rules
were to blame for his colleague’s suspension, the Financial
Times reported April 1, citing a private conference call for
investors. “I’ve never been involved in day-to-day management
of the firm, but maybe I should have after this,” he said the
same day, according to trade magazine  Fund Strategy .  Investigation Continues  Rambourg quit three months later as an FSA probe, which is
continuing, prohibited him from executing trades. An FSA
spokeswoman,  Heidi Ashley , declined to comment.  The ensuing wave of fund manager departures and client
withdrawals prompted CEO Meyer to issue new shares valued at as
much as 15 percent of the company’s equity to retain remaining
employees. “Is the end ever bottomless?” he said Nov. 8. “I
think this is a very well-balanced amount, a well-judged amount.
This is it and if it doesn’t do it, it doesn’t do it.”  The firm this week awarded 9 million shares, or 2.5 percent
of the company, to  John Bennett , a fund manager hired in June
2009 to reduce Gartmore’s reliance on Guy and Rambourg.  Sigma’s Seet is keeping his funds with Gartmore. “The
jury’s still out on whether John Bennett will come through,” he
said. “I’d like to think so.”  New Managers  “Gartmore said very clearly at the time of IPO that they
would be recruiting a wider team of fund managers in order to
reduce their reliance on one or two ‘stars’ and deal with the
so-called key-man risk,” the firm said in an e-mailed response
to questions posed by Bloomberg News.  “We have done what we said we would do,” Gartmore said,
citing the appointments of Bennett, head of U.K. equities  Leigh Himsworth , and U.K. equity managers  Dan Roberts  and  Luke Newman 
as examples. “Financially this is a strong profitable business
with low debt, but it takes time for these new hires to become
established in their new roles.”  While the departures of Guy and Rambourg have hurt current
investors, one advantage the company may now have is an absence
of the key-man risk.  “Perhaps you’re quite happy as a buyer not to be at the
mercy of one or two very strong individuals that have so much
economic say,” said  Morten Spenner , CEO of International Asset
Management Ltd., a London-based fund of hedge funds with $3
billion of assets and a former Gartmore client. “You can still
buy a team with a strong offering.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 