-- Gazprom’s Sibur Eyes Fertilizer Merger With PhosAgro
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v
-- 2010-11-25T11:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/gazprom-owned-sibur-considers-fertilizer-merger-with-phosagro.html
OAO Sibur Holding, the chemicals
affiliate of  OAO Gazprom , said it’s considering a merger of its
fertilizer business with OAO PhosAgro, Russia’s largest maker of
phosphate fertilizers.  Sibur supports the consolidation of fertilizer makers and
is considering various options for its business, Sibur spokesman
Rashid Nureyev said by phone today from Moscow. “There are
different options” and a merger with PhosAgro “is one of
them,” he said, declining to comment further.  PhosAgro spokesman Timur Belov said he couldn’t comment
immediately when Bloomberg News contacted him on his mobile
phone. PhosAgro has been considering various options for a
merger with another fertilizer company and discussions have been
held with Sibur, said a PhosAgro official, who declined to be
identified because of the confidential nature of the talks.  Russian fertilizer companies, including OAO Silvinit, the
largest potash-maker, and OAO Uralkali, have been studying
merging to expand production as shrinking arable land and rising
world food demand spur consumption of their products.  Sibur may exchange its fertilizer unit, Sibur-Mineral
Fertilizers Holding, for a stake of 20 percent or more in
PhosAgro, Vedomosti reported today, citing two unidentified
people involved in the discussions. State-run Gazprom is the
world’s largest gas producer.  Joint Potash Bid  PhosAgro said on Nov. 16 that it’s seeking talks with the
Canadian government about a potential bid for  Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc.  Canada earlier this month rejected Melbourne-
based BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion bid for Potash Corp.  PhosAgro, based in Moscow, is studying a joint bid for
Potash Corp. with domestic competitors and held “intensive
consultations” with the Russian government as well as local and
foreign banks, it said on Nov. 4.  Russia on Nov. 1 asked domestic producers to consider a
bid, according to OAO Acron, the nation’s third-largest producer
of nitrogen soil nutrients. Acron said it wouldn’t take part in
a takeover attempt.  PhosAgro is valued at about between $7 billion and $9
billion, Troika Dialog, the Moscow-based brokerage, said in a
note on Nov. 3. That compares with  Potash Corp.’s  current market
capitalization of about $42.7 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
 Anton Doroshev  in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  