-- Gold May Decline on Strengthening Dollar, China Policy-Tightening Measures
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   J a e   H u r
-- 2010-11-25T16:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/gold-falls-as-demand-for-haven-drops-after-european-korean-concerns-ease.html
Gold may decline in London as a
stronger dollar curbs demand for an alternative investment and
after China pledged further tightening measures.  The dollar was near a two-month high against the euro as
rising borrowing costs in Spain and Portugal stoked concern that
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis will worsen. The  People’s
Bank of China  will use quantitative and price tools to manage
liquidity, Deputy Governor  Hu Xiaolian  said in a statement
yesterday. Gold, which usually moves inversely to the greenback,
reached a record $1,424.60 an ounce on Nov. 9.  “Potential strength in the dollar” may pressure gold
prices,  Tom Pawlicki , an analyst at  MF  Global Holdings Ltd. in
Chicago, said in a report. “Also helping gold prices lower may
be Chinese efforts to reduce commodity prices. Such efforts may
take hold in the short-run and reduce the need to use gold as an
inflation hedge.”  Immediate-delivery bullion added 98 cents, or 0.1 percent,
to $1,374.23 an ounce at 4:35 p.m. in London. The metal for
February delivery was 40 cents higher at $1,375.40 on the Comex
in New York. Floor trading is closed today for the U.S.
Thanksgiving holiday.  Bullion fell to $1,370.50 an ounce in the morning
“fixing” in London, used by some mining companies to sell
output, from $1,372.50 at yesterday’s afternoon fixing.  China has raised rates, increased the reserve requirement
for banks and pledged to use price controls as part of efforts
to rein in inflation that quickened to 4.4 percent last month.  The Shanghai Futures Exchange will raise trading margins
and daily price move limits for contracts including copper,
rubber, aluminum, gold, fuel oil and steel, the bourse said in a
statement posted on its website today, confirming an earlier
report by the China Business News.  Battle Manuals  South Korea will revise battle manuals and increase its
military strength on the maritime border with North Korea after
the deadly exchange of artillery fire on Nov. 23, President  Lee Myung Bak ’s office said. South Korea will also increase
diplomatic efforts to secure help from China, North Korea’s
closest ally, Lee’s office said.  “With the Korean tension easing, investors are watching
the debt situation in Europe and this issue may keep depressing
the euro,” said  Hiroyuki Kikukawa , general manager of research
at IDO Securities Co. in Tokyo. Trade in bullion will be limited
today because of the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday, he said.  Ireland yesterday unveiled a four-year deficit-cutting plan
as talks on a bailout of Irish banks neared conclusion. Workers
in Portugal staged a strike yesterday before the government
faces a final vote in parliament tomorrow on its 2011 spending
plan, which includes measures to trim the deficit.  Spanish bonds declined even as Deputy Finance Minister  Jose Manuel Campa  said the nation’s funding for the rest of the year
remains “comfortable” and the government doesn’t expect
problems tapping financial markets.  Silver for immediate delivery in London fell 0.2 percent to
$27.545 an ounce. It reached a 30-year high of $29.36 on Nov. 9
and is up 63 percent this year.  Palladium added 0.1 percent to $697.63 an ounce. Platinum
was little changed at $1,661.50 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at   jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  