-- Google TV Delights Nerds, Baffles Normal Folk: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2010-11-25T22:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/google-tv-delights-nerds-baffles-normal-folks-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
I can imagine myself using the
 Logitech  Revue, the new Google TV box. I just have a hard time
imagining you using it.  No disrespect intended. It’s just that the Revue and the
 Google Inc.  software it runs don’t seem designed for normal
human beings. They are too techie, aimed at people who don’t
mind stumbling over an occasional “page not found” message on
their big-screen televisions or changing channels with a
keyboard rather than a remote control.  Yes, you heard right. The $299 Revue comes with a full-
sized alphanumeric keyboard, complete with trackpad and mouse
buttons. You have to pay $129 extra if you want a smaller remote.
(Which, by the way, has a keyboard too.)  A brief primer is in order. Google TV isn’t a device. It’s
software designed to provide a single interface to the universe
of video for your TV, whether it originates with your cable or
satellite provider, paid online sources like  Amazon.com Inc. ’s
video-on-demand or  Netflix Inc. ’s streaming services, or free
sites like Google’s YouTube. It’s a much more ambitious approach
than, say, the $99 Apple TV, which focuses on a limited set of
content emphasizing Apple’s own iTunes Store.  So far, there are only three ways to run Google TV: on a
line of  Sony Corp.  televisions (ranging in cost from $599 to
$1,399) and a Sony Blu-ray player ($399), both of which have the
software built in, and via the Revue from Logitech. Each of them
requires access to an Internet connection, either Ethernet or
Wi-Fi.  Lying to Google  Setting up the Revue was a pain. The physical part was easy;
I connected the included HDMI cable to the TV, and plugged my
cable box into it. But configuring the software required 12
steps and consumed the better part of an hour. I only got it to
work by lying to it about which network appears on which channel
on my cable system.  The idea behind Google TV is a good one. You shouldn’t have
to care whether that episode of “Entourage” comes from the
cable company, your digital video recorder, the Web or Netflix.
You just want to watch it. The problem is that the world of
video is a wild and wooly place, and Google TV falls short of
being able to tame it.  One example: Google TV helped me locate a 2005 episode of
“South Park” on Netflix, but when I tried to play it, I
received an error message telling me it was incompatible with my
system.  Perfect Sense  I had to call Logitech’s customer service to figure out
that Google’s software had pointed me to the Netflix website,
when what I really needed to do was run Google TV’s Netflix app.
Ah, of course! It makes perfect sense to take me straight to a
video I can’t watch.  Google TV lacks access to some obvious troves of online
content, notably the  Hulu Plus  service. Google says it’s in
talks to bring Hulu Plus -- which includes programs from  Walt
Disney Co. ’s ABC,  News Corp. ’s Fox and  General Electric Co. ’s
NBC networks -- to Google TV users. And the software suffers
from a clumsy interface: Good luck figuring out the distinctions
between “Spotlight,” “Bookmarks” and “Queue,” for instance.  Along about now, most average consumers might give up and
reach for the good old one-hand remote. And that’s too bad,
because those undaunted by all the geekiness can actually have
some fun with the Google TV box. I was able to watch scads of
interesting content on the big screen that I otherwise would
have had to watch on a computer, if I could find it at all.  A Colbert Report  A search for humorist  Stephen Colbert , for instance,
yielded not just recent episodes of “The Colbert Report” but
also a 2006 profile of him from “60 Minutes.” Look for Hugh
Laurie and you’ll find innumerable listings for episodes of
“House,” as well as a link to his “Jeeves and Wooster”
series on Amazon and YouTube clips of his turn as the dim-witted
Prince Regent on the old “Blackadder” Britcom.  Add to that the ability to surf the Web with the built-in
Chrome browser while your TV continues to play in a picture-in-
picture window, and you’ll be in TV-Web nerd heaven. That is, as
long as you’re a TV-Web nerd.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Rich Jaroslovsky  in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 