-- Google Signs France Artists Deal to Cool Tensions From Copyright Battles
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-25T13:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/google-s-youtube-signs-france-artists-accord-after-copyright-map-battles.html
Google Inc. ’s YouTube unit will pay
three French artistic collection agencies for the use of their
members’ works, continuing an effort to cool tensions with
creative groups and regulators in France.  YouTube will compensate screenwriters, directors,
playwrights, and other artists represented by the SACD, SCAM,
and ADAGP agencies, the groups  said  in Paris today. The revenue-
sharing model for the deal, which will cover works viewed in
France and be retroactive to YouTube’s 2007 entry into the
French market, hasn’t yet been fully determined, they said.  Google, the owner of the world’s largest search engine, is
trying to build stronger relationships with regulators and
copyright holders in France, where it has attracted scrutiny
over its mapping, book-scanning, and advertising systems. Google
Chief Executive Officer  Eric Schmidt  this year pledged to build
a “European cultural institute” and a research and development
center in Paris after meeting with President  Nicolas Sarkozy.   While the YouTube deal won’t produce large amounts of cash
for artists in the short term, it re-establishes “the sacred
link between the fortune of the work and the fortune of the
author,” Laurent Heynemann, president of the 50,000 member SACD
group, said at a Paris press conference. “The Internet is not a
jungle, and an economic model is possible.”  Google came under fire from French and European regulators
this year for improper collection of WiFi data by its Street
View map service. After the negative attention, “Google’s
management are eager to ensure they are seen to be whiter than
white in everything that they do,”  Sam Hart , a media analyst at
Charles Stanley in London, said by phone.  More Deals  Today’s accord follows a similar deal in September with
Sacem, the 100,000-member French music-rights collection agency.
The Mountain View, California-based company hasn’t been able to
reach a similar deal in Germany, where the GEMA rights agency
this year sued Google over what it said was improper use of
content on YouTube.  The video site is “going in the direction of adding more
and more professional content” and needs to strike durable
deals with copyright holders to do so, said  Christophe Muller ,
YouTube’s head of partnerships for southern and eastern Europe.  Google’s book-scanning service, which Sarkozy in 2009 said
could result in France being “deprived of our heritage,”
reached an agreement last week with  Lagardere SCA’s  Hachette
Livre publishing unit to allow the distribution of out-of-print
French books. The deal was designed as a model for agreements
with other French publishers, some of whom have sued Google over
book-scanning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 