-- Greece Pressure Points Keep Default Risks Alive After Bailout: Euro Credit
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2010-11-25T08:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/greece-pressure-points-keep-default-risks-alive-after-bailout-euro-credit.html
Greece’s 110 billion-euro ($149
billion) rescue has failed to restrain borrowing costs as
investors remain skeptical about the nation’s ability to pay its
debts once the aid package expires.  “The market has substantial doubts on the longevity of any
Greek rescue,” said  Bill Blain , a co-head of fixed income
Matrix Corporate Capital LLP in London. “Ultimately, if nothing
else changes, Greece will still need a restructuring down the
road.”  Greek 10-year bonds  yield 11.93 percent, compared with 8.96
percent before the European Union and the International Monetary
Fund agreed to backstop the nation on May 2. The cost of
insuring Greek debt against default is at its highest since June
29. Investors demand 9.2 points more yield to lend to the
country than to Germany, the highest  premium  in the euro region
and near the May 7 record of 9.65 points, as bondholders
question whether Greece can plug its budget shortfall.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s efforts are hampered as
tax revenue diminishes in an economy set to contract 4.2 percent
this year and 3 percent in 2011. The EU’s higher estimates for
the country’s 2009 debt and deficit on Nov. 15 forced the
government to announce additional austerity measures to reach
targets set as a condition for receiving financial aid.  “The program is at a crossroads,”  Poul Thomsen , the head
of the IMF’s Greece mission, said in a Bloomberg TV interview on
Nov. 23. There’s been “a very, very good start, but some
pressure points are evident,” he said.  Greece needs to cut health spending, rein in deficits at
state-owned companies and boost tax collection, the IMF said.  Record Deficit  Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  has announced 14
billion euros of revenue measures and spending cuts that aim to
trim the shortfall by 5 billion euros. The deficit will be 9.4
percent of gross domestic product this year, above an original
8.1 percent target agreed in May, and 7.4 percent next year,
according to the budget. The 2009 gap was 15.4 percent, a record
for the euro-area and surpassing Ireland for the region’s
largest deficit.  “This remains a very ambitious program,” Thomsen said.
“We’ll have an 8 percent reduction in an economy that contracts
by 7 percent. That is extraordinary by any international
standard.”  Budget revenue has failed to meet forecasts. Higher sales,
cigarette and alcohol taxes were introduced to boost receipts by
13.7 percent this year. That goal was trimmed to 8.7 percent in
October and again last week to 6 percent. The government’s
income grew just 3.7 percent in the first 10 months of the year.  Still Skeptical  “We remain skeptical about its ability to cut the deficit
further,”  Giada Giani , an economist at Citigroup in London,
wrote on Nov. 23. That’s partly due to concerns that this year’s
deficit will miss the latest targets and “because we see it
unlikely that meaningful improvements in tax collection will
materialize in the short-term.”  Public transport and government workers are set to walk off
the job for three hours today, halting ferries, buses and trains
to protest Papaconstantinou’s plans to curb spending at
hospitals, municipalities, and bus, trolley and rail companies.
Unions plan a 24-hour strike on Dec. 15. Garbage collectors have
been on strike for five days.  Papaconstantinou plans to cut 2.1 billion euros from
hospital spending to reduce a health bill that amounts to more
than 13 billion euros a year, or about 5 percent of GDP. The
country’s 11 most unprofitable state enterprises had accumulated
losses of 1.7 billion euros in 2009, more than the money the
government saved this year by cutting payments to pensioners,
according to Papaconstantinou.  Euro Weakness  Greece will receive 9 billion euros in December and January
from the EU and IMF following this week’s assessment. That’s in
addition to the 29 billion euros it’s been given since the May
accord, when deficit concern pushed its borrowing costs to
record highs, leaving it shut out of financial markets.  Fallout from Greece’s debt crisis has weakened the euro by
7 percent against the dollar this year, and prompted a surge in
bond yields for other high-deficit euro-region countries as
investors shunned their debt. Ireland is now negotiating aid to
refinance its banks as borrowing costs surge, driving its 10-
year yield premium versus bunds to 6.20 percentage points today
and approaching the Nov. 11 euro-era record of 6.46 points.
Portugal’s premium over bonds also soared to a euro-era record
on Nov. 11 of 460 basis points and the yield on its 10-year bond
now tops 7.2 percent.  “Systemic risk has increased in Europe’s periphery with
Ireland and Portugal widening,” said  Ioannis Sokos , a
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “This is weighing on
Greek bonds as well.”  Funding Costs  Both Greece and Ireland will pay an interest rate of about
5 percent for emergency funding, compared with three-year
domestic bond yields of about 13 percent and 6.8 percent,
respectively.  The EU-led rescue plan for Greece aimed to restore investor
confidence and also allow the country to access markets for
funding by the time the program ends in 2013. Papaconstantinou
repeated on Nov. 23 that he wants to resume borrowing on the
international capital markets next year.  Greece’s first aid repayment is due in 2013. The IMF’s
Thomsen said Nov. 23 that while he didn’t doubt Greece’s ability
to resume borrowing, the maturity of its loan might still need
to be extended, and that the repercussions of debt restructuring
would outweigh any benefits.  Greece’s gross borrowing needs will rise to 70.8 billion
euros in 2014 from 53.2 billion euros as repayments to the EU 
and the fund increase, IMF documents show.  “You can’t turn around Greece in 12 months,” said Blain.
“Over the next three years we’re going to see continued
slippage in the targets where we get to the stage of another
bailout, or more likely a restructuring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  