-- Li & Fung Advances to 18-Year Record in Hong Kong on U.S. Spending, Jobs
-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 2010-11-25T09:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/li-fung-rises-to-record-on-increased-u-s-spending-lower-jobless-claims.html
Li & Fung Ltd. , the biggest supplier
to retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , surged to a record
in Hong Kong after U.S. employment and consumer spending
improved and Credit Suisse Group AG said it may win more orders.  Li & Fung  rose 5.2 percent to HK$45.80 at 4 p.m. close of
trading in Hong Kong, the highest level since its initial public
offering in July 1992. It was the biggest gainer on the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index , which rose 0.13 percent.  Americans increased spending for a fifth month in October
and filed the fewest  unemployment  claims in more than two years
last week, according to the Commerce and Labor Departments,
boosting the outlook for holiday-season shopping. Credit Suisse
raised its share-price estimate by 12 percent to HK$54.40,
saying Li & Fung, which makes 67 percent of sales in the U.S.,
will gain as  Wal-Mart  increases purchases for non-food products.  “The market has underestimated the earnings potential from
the Wal-Mart outsourcing deal,” said  Gabriel Chan  and  Phoebe Tse , Hong Kong-based analysts at Credit Suisse, in a report to
clients today. “Wal-Mart has a strong incentive to direct
higher-than-proportion sourcing requirement through this
partnership.”  Li & Fung  in January entered an agreement to supply
clothes, toys and other goods to Bentonville, Arkansas-based
 Wal-Mart . The Hong Kong-based company estimated the deal with
the world’s biggest retailer may generate an additional $2
billion of sales in the first year.  The stock has  surged  45 percent this year, beating the 5.4
percent advance of the benchmark index.  Acquisition Fund  The supplier has in the past year announced  purchases  worth
more than $2 billion, according to the company and analyst
estimates. It still had more than $1 billion in its acquisition
 fund , President  Bruce Rockowitz  said last month.  Li & Fung agreed to buy  Oxford Industries Inc .’s apparel
division for $121.7 million on Nov. 22. The company has boosted
 sales  in 17 of the last 18 years, buying rivals and supplying
retailers worldwide with Asian-made consumer goods, from Tommy
Hilfiger clothes and Kate Spade bags to furniture and toys.  Founded in the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou in 1906,
 Li & Fung  also supplies Kohl’s Corp., Marks & Spencer Plc,
Inditex SA’s Zara and Esprit Holdings Inc.  U.S. household purchases advanced 0.4 percent after a 0.3
percent gain in September that was larger than previously
estimated, the Commerce Department reported yesterday in
Washington. Incomes climbed 0.5 percent. Jobless claims fell by
34,000 to 407,000 in the week ended Nov. 20, Labor Department
figures showed.  Holiday Shopping  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
November  consumer sentiment  increased to 71.6, the highest since
June, from 67.7 a month earlier. The preliminary November figure
was 69.3. Economists projected a reading of 69.5.  Other reports today from the Commerce Department showed
that orders for goods meant to last several years and new-home
sales both unexpectedly decreased last month, illustrating the
uneven nature of the recovery from the worst recession since the
Great Depression.  Retailers forecast a better holiday shopping period and are
increasing discounts to attract more consumers. The National
Retail Federation has forecast November-December holiday sales
will rise by 2.3 percent from a year ago, the most since 2006.  Wal-Mart , the world’s largest listed company, said this
week it will match prices listed in competitors’ ads on Black
Friday, the day after the Nov. 25 Thanksgiving holiday. Savings
will run through Nov. 27, with deals on electronics, home items
and apparel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  