-- India Stock Rally Faces `Stiffest Test' Amid Scandals, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2010-11-25T09:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/indian-corruption-probe-poses-equities-stiffest-test-morgan-stanley-says.html
Indian stocks face their “stiffest
test” as corruption scandals threaten to cap the world-beating
rally that took the benchmark index to a record this month,
according to Morgan Stanley.  Federal investigating agents yesterday arrested eight
Indian bank and brokerage officials following a probe into
bribes and improper loan disbursals. The agency has separately
been examining the role of a former central government minister
in the sale of phone permits for less than their market value.  India’s benchmark stock index has retreated 7.3 percent
from a Nov. 5 record close as inflation in China, Europe’s debt
crisis, skirmishes between North and South Korea and concern
about the strength of U.S. growth roiled investor confidence.
Asia’s second-fastest growing economy is seeking investment to
help build infrastructure needed to lift almost half the
population out of out of poverty.  “Everything that could go wrong appears to be going
wrong,” Morgan Stanley analysts led by  Ridham Desai  wrote in a
report today. “These events will cause the volatility in Indian
equities to intensify.”  Foreign fund  inflows  have almost doubled this year to an
all-time high on the expectation consumer spending will boost
corporate earnings. Stocks on the main equity gauge are valued
at 18.4 times estimated earnings after jumping 12 percent this
year. The measure is the best performer and the most expensive
among the ten biggest markets in the world.  ‘Buy on Dip’  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or  Sensex , added
0.1 percent to 19,474.18 as of 2:32 p.m. local time after
swinging between gains and losses at least 12 times. The measure
yesterday dropped to its lowest level in two months.  “Investors who can stomach this volatility may do well by
buying the ongoing dip,” the Morgan Stanley analysts wrote.
“We do not think that the recent domestic events are likely to
spread into a contagion, and if anything may actually turn out
to be a positive.” The analysts didn’t name any companies or
industries.  Ramachandran R. Nair , chief executive officer, of LIC
Housing Finance Ltd. and seven bank and brokerage officials were
arrested by the federal investigating agency yesterday. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. today put under review its “sell” rating on
LIC Housing Finance, the home-loan lending arm of India’s
largest insurer.  The probe into the alleged bribes and improper loan
disbursals by financial institutions may lead to “some
derating” of the public sector banking industry, Citigroup Inc.
said in a note to investors today.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  on Nov. 20 rejected
allegations that he had delayed responding to calls to prosecute
the minister who awarded the phone licenses and pledged to
punish the guilty. Opposition parties have prevented discussion
of legislation since the parliamentary session began Nov. 9,
seeking an investigation into the allegations the sale of the
permits at below-market rates may have cost the state $31
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rajhkumar K Shaaw  in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  