-- India Airline Regulator May Act on `Exorbitant' Ticket Prices, Patel Says
-- B y   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-11-25T11:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/india-regulator-may-act-on-exorbitant-airfares-patel-says.html
India’s Civil Aviation Minister
 Praful Patel  said the industry regulator may take action against
carriers that charge “exorbitant prices.”  “We shall certainly try our best to bring discipline in
the aviation sector,” Patel said today in New Delhi. “Airlines
in the last few weeks have been charging very exorbitant
prices” on some routes, he said.  Jet Airways (India) Ltd ., the nation’s biggest domestic
airline, and competitors fell in Mumbai trading after the
Minister’s remarks. The Director General of Civil Aviation last
week asked local carriers to provide  fare lists  on the first day
of every month and to inform the regulator of any major changes.  “I don’t think the government should intervene,” said
 Kapil Kaul , the chief executive officer for the Center for Asia
Pacific Aviation’s India unit. “There would be days when the
pricing would look threatening, but most days the fare would be
within a range.”  Jet Airways  fell 3 percent to 860.4 rupees at the 3:30 p.m.
close of trading in Mumbai. Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. declined
1.5 percent to 70.4 rupees, while  SpiceJet Ltd.  fell 2.6 percent
to 82.65 rupees.  Kingfisher spokesman Prakash Mirpuri said the airline had
no immediate comment. Jet Airways’ spokeswoman Ragini Chopra
didn’t immediately respond to e-mailed questions. Samyukth
Sridharan, chief commercial officer of SpiceJet, declined to
comment.  Insufficient Information  The regulator asked for fares because of insufficient
information available in the public domain and reports of
airlines charging ‘excessively high tariff’ during high demand
period, the civil aviation ministry said in a Nov. 21 statement.  The regulator “has special powers and they can certainly
invoke them if airlines don’t act responsibly in days to come,”
Patel said.  India’s airlines may narrow their combined losses to $400
million this year from $1.7 billion in 2009 as air travel demand
rises,  Giovanni Bisignani , president of the International Air
Transport Association, said in September. Rising disposable
incomes and faster economic expansion have spurred more air
travel in the world’s second-most populous nation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Subramaniam Sharma in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net .
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 