-- Insider-Trading Probe Leads to Charges Against Hedge Fund-Taiwan Liaison
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-11-25T01:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/insider-trading-probe-leads-to-charges-against-hedge-fund-taiwan-liaison.html
An expert consultant to hedge funds,
Don Ching Trang Chu, was charged with arranging for insiders at
publicly traded companies to improperly provide information to
clients of his firm.  Chu, who worked as the Taiwan liaison for Primary Global
Research LLC, an expert-networking firm based in Mountain View,
California, passed tips to  Richard Choo-Beng Lee , a former
partner at San Jose, California-based Spherix Capital LLC
beginning in late 2008, according to a criminal complaint
unsealed today by U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  in Manhattan.  Lee began cooperating with the government’s investigation
in April 2009 prosecutors said. Before Spherix, Lee was employed
as an analyst by SAC Capital Advisors LLC, the hedge fund firm
run by  Steven A. Cohen , from 1999 to 2004.  Lee’s hedge fund allegedly paid Chu’s firm, which
prosecutors didn’t identify, for the inside information.
Employees of Atheros Communications Inc., Broadcom Corp. and
Sierra Wireless Inc. passed earnings estimates and other data to
Primary Global’s clients, according to the criminal complaint.  “There is probable cause to believe that Chu promotes the
firm’s consultation services by arranging for firm consultants
to provide material, nonpublic information regarding certain
public companies’ releases of significant financial information
or other market-moving events,” prosecutors charged.  Primary Global Employment  Primary Global said in a statement e-mailed by an outside
spokesman that Chu, who was born in Taiwan and became a
naturalized U.S. citizen in 1987, worked for the firm for about
seven years.  “Based upon recent events, PGR has severed its
relationship with Mr. Chu,” the company said.  As part of the U.S. investigation into insider trading at
hedge funds, agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s
New York office on Nov. 22 searched the offices of Level Global
Investors LP and Diamondback Capital Management LLC. Both firms
were founded by former employees of Stamford, Connecticut-based
SAC Capital Advisors LP. A third hedge fund, Boston-based Loch
Capital Management, was also searched by agents that day,
according to a person familiar with that matter.  Cohen’s SAC was subpoenaed by the U.S. seeking documents a
day later. No allegation of wrongdoing has been made against
SAC, which manages $12 billion.  Jonathan Gasthalter , a firm
spokesman, declined to comment.  Securities Fraud  Chu is charged with one count of conspiracy to commit
securities fraud and one count of conspiracy to commit wire
fraud. He faces as much as 25 years in prison if convicted of
wire fraud conspiracy.  Chu’s lawyer,  James DeVita , declined to comment on the
charges.  Chu, 56, is the latest person to be charged in the Galleon
Group case, the largest insider trading probe involving hedge
funds. Two overlapping insider trading cases involving Galleon
Group founder  Raj Rajaratnam  have led to accusations against
more than 20 people. To date, 14 people have pleaded guilty in
the case, with most agreeing to cooperate with prosecutors and
testify against others.  Malaysian-born Lee, who was a colleague of Rajaratnam for
20 years at Needham & Co. and one of the original defendants in
the Galleon case, pleaded guilty last year to receiving inside
information “from one of my sources in Asia.”  Government Evidence  The scheme Chu was involved in ran from January to August
2009, prosecutors said. Evidence against him described in the
complaint was gathered from the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, bank records, unnamed cooperating witnesses and
“court-authorized wiretaps on a telephone subscribed to an
unnamed hedge fund.” The U.S. said the FBI intercepted calls
made between Oct. 15, 2008 and Feb.4, 2009.  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for the FBI’s New York Office,
said Chu was arrested today at his home because he was scheduled
to leave the country for Taiwan on Nov. 28.  Chu’s biography on the Primary Global website identifies
him as “Asia Expert and Data Sources.”  He worked for 25 years in the data communications industry
and at Bell Laboratories for more than 10 years, in data,
wireless and telecommunications, according to the website.  “Don intimately understands the wireless broadband
communications industry, and has deep connections and
relationships in the technology industry,” according to the
biography. “Finally, Don is just a fun person to travel with on
the highways and byways of Taiwan.”  Sales, Margins  While Lee was cooperating with investigators an
unidentified person working for a technology company on July 20
and 21, 2009, gave Lee details of its sales, margins and revenue
forecasts before the company announced quarterly earnings,
according to prosecutors.  Lee’s fund’s practice was to “have its employees call a
firm consultant before the consultant’s company was expected to
release its quarterly earnings, in part to obtain inside
information,” prosecutors said. The fund paid the firm through
“soft dollars” or commissions from directed trading business,
the U.S. charged.  A criminal complaint filed against Lee, made public in
November 2009, says he had 12 accomplices, including several who
worked for technology companies.  In March, former Atheros Communications Vice President  Ali Hariri  was sentenced to 18 months in prison after pleading
guilty to securities fraud and conspiracy to commit securities
fraud.  Wi-Fi Networks  Atheros, based in Santa Clara, California, sells chips used
in Wi-Fi networks, which provide short-range wireless Internet
connections. It also makes semiconductors for Bluetooth wireless
networks and chips used in global-positioning system, or GPS,
equipment.  Chu was released by U.S. Magistrate Judge  Theodore Katz  in
Manhattan on a $1 million personal recognizance bond secured by
his home in Franklin Township, New Jersey He was ordered to
restrict his travel and has surrendered his U.S. passport.  In a recorded conversation between Lee and Chu on Aug. 4,
2009, Chu told Lee to be careful about discussing sensitive
information on the phone, because calls are sometimes recorded,
prosecutors said.  “That’s why I don’t want too [sic] involved in the
states,” Chu said, according to the complaint. “SEC is too
strong.”  The case is U.S. v. Chu, 10-Mag-2625, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  