-- Inter Milan, Barcelona, Tottenham Advance to Champions League Second Round
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-11-25T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/inter-milan-barcelona-among-seven-teams-advancing-in-champions-league.html
Former winners Inter Milan,
Manchester United and Barcelona were among seven teams advancing
last night to the round of 16 in soccer’s Champions League.  Tottenham, Valencia, Schalke and Lyon also qualified for
the next round of Europe’s top club competition with one game
remaining. The top two teams in each of the eight four-team
groups move into the knockout stage.  “Every big club wants to be in the Champions League
playing against the best teams in the world,” Tottenham’s  Peter Crouch  said in a televised interview after his team beat Werder
Bremen 3-0. “It’s our first experience in the Champions League.
It’s a great achievement.”  Defending champion Inter Milan beat FC Twente 1-0 to
advance from Group A with Tottenham, while Barcelona won 3-0 at
Panathinaikos to secure the top spot in Group D.  Manchester United beat Rangers 1-0 and Valencia routed
Bursaspor 6-1 to progress from Group C, while Schalke defeated
Lyon 3-0 to send both teams through from Group B.  Hapoel Tel-Aviv beat Benfica 3-0 in Group B and Rubin Kazan
defeated Copenhagen 1-0 in Group D in yesterday’s other matches.  Esteban Cambiasso  scored in the 55th minute and Inter Milan
ended a five-match winless run in all competitions. Inter and
Tottenham are tied in the group with 10 points heading into the
final round of games.  Younes Kaboul ,  Luka Modric  and Crouch scored the goals that
qualified Tottenham in its first Champions League appearance.  “We showed we can compete in the Champions League,” Spurs
manager  Harry Redknapp  said. “It is fantastic for us to get
through.”  Rooney Returns  Wayne Rooney  returned to the Manchester United lineup to
score the winning goal against Rangers in Glasgow.  The striker converted an 87th-minute penalty kick after
being sidelined since October with an ankle injury. It was just
his second goal of the season.  The win keeps United atop Group C with 13 points, three
more than Valencia, which scored four goals in the first half in
easily beating Bursaspor.  “We want to go and win the group,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told ITV. “We got Valencia at home, we can look
forward to that.”  Pedro Rodriguez scored two goals and  Lionel Messi  added one
as Barcelona secured first place in Group D. Rubin Kazan kept
its hope of advancing alive by beating Copenhagen 1-0 on
Cristian Noboa’s penalty kick just before halftime.  Copenhagen is second in the group with seven points, one
more than Rubin. Copenhagen hosts Panathinaikos and Rubin visits
Barcelona in the final group matches.  Klaas-Jan Huntelaar had two goals and  Jefferson Farfan 
scored one as Schalke beat Lyon to advance from Group B. Lyon
then also qualified when Hapoel Tel-Aviv upset Benfica behind
two goals from Eran Zahavi.  AC Milan, Bayern Munich, Chelsea, Marseille and Real Madrid
earlier secured places in the round of 16, leaving four spots up
for grabs in the final group games Dec. 7 and 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  