-- Investors Hedge Against Turkey Price Risk Yilmaz Denies: Inflation Bonds
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-11-25T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/investors-hedge-against-turkey-price-risk-yilmaz-denies-inflation-bonds.html
Turkish bond investors are paying
the highest price ever for protection against  inflation , casting
doubt on the central bank’s forecast that price increases will
slow even as  economic growth  rivals that of China.  The gap between yields on two-year inflation-linked bonds
and standard discount notes, known as the breakeven rate, is
close to a two-year high at 7.4 percentage points. Turkey’s
inflation-linked bonds outperformed all 18 countries tracked by
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. for three years, as
investors bet that Turkey’s boom will translate into more missed
inflation goals.  Money is pouring into Europe’s fastest-growing economy.
Spain’s  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Agentaria SA  agreed on a $5.8
billion bank acquisition this month, and investors pushed stocks
and bonds to record highs. The inflows also boosted the lira,
making Turkey’s exports less competitive, and any move by
Governor  Durmus Yilmaz  to bring inflation in line with his
target by raising interest rates may risk further appreciation.  The inflation-linked bonds have surged because “the
central bank is being very dovish and inflation is already
high,” said  Angus Halkett , a fixed-income analyst in London for
Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest bank. Growth is “by far the
strongest in the region, and that’s tending to drive a rise in
expectations for inflation.”  Turkey’s $700 billion economy grew more than 10 percent in
the first half.  Consumer loans  have risen a weekly average of
0.8 percent since January.  ‘Behind The Curve’  The central bank has kept its benchmark rate at a record
low of 7 percent for a year. Yilmaz says he can delay increases
another year and still bring inflation down from 8.6 percent
last month. He points to a  core rate , excluding food and energy,
that fell to a record low in October of 2.5 percent. The bank
predicts that inflation will track that decline, slowing to 5.4
percent next year and 5.1 percent in 2012, close to its targets.  The breakeven rate on Turkey’s CPI-linked bonds, which
represents expectations of inflation over their lifespan, shows
buyers have less faith. The securities have returned 21 percent
this year, according to Merrill’s index.  The price of the bonds maturing April 1, 2020, of which the
Treasury sold 3.1 billion liras ($2.1 billion) on Nov. 23, rose
to a high of 119.1 kurus on Nov. 9 and was at 119 kurus
yesterday.  It’s not the first time markets have doubted Yilmaz. When
he slashed rates last year, economists including  Turker Hamzaoglu  of Merrill Lynch said Turkey risked falling “behind
the curve.”  Weak Record  Turkey’s record for meeting inflation goals over the past
five years is the weakest of nine emerging economies tracked by
Barclays Capital, according to a Nov. 10 report by strategists
including  Koon Chow . In the period, inflation exceeded targets
by an average of 2.9 percentage points, 1.2 points more than the
deviation in South Africa, the second-worst performer.  Investors, though, should “give the bank credit” for
accurate forecasting over the past two years, said  Tevfik Aksoy ,
chief economist for the Middle East, Turkey and North Africa at
Morgan Stanley in London. He predicts inflation will slow in the
next three months.  “I would side with the central bank,” Aksoy said. “I
don’t think linkers are that attractive.”  Also supporting the bank’s outlook is Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s budget restraint as he seeks a third term in
elections due by July. The deficit for the 10 months through
October was 23.1 billion liras ($15.7 billion), compared with a
full-year target of 44.2 billion liras or 4 percent of output.  Higher Returns  Turkey’s growth and higher returns helped attract $13.5
billion of international investment in stocks and bonds in the
first nine months, 17 times the year-earlier figure.  In that period, the benchmark  ISE-100 equity index  jumped
28 percent in dollar terms, more than triple the gain on the
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index . Yields on  benchmark two-year lira
bonds  fell to a record 7.56 percent Nov. 22.  Company acquisitions also increased. In the past month,
BBVA agreed to purchase 25 percent of Istanbul-based lender
 Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS  and Austria’s OMV AG announced plans
to buy control of fuel retailer  Petrol Ofisi AS  for $1.4
billion.  Like South Africa’s  Gill Marcus  and other emerging market
central bank governors, Yilmaz highlights the risks caused by
investors borrowing in countries where interest rates are close
to zero to invest in higher-yielding markets.  Exports Slow  Foreign investment helped push the lira up 9 percent
against the euro this year. Europe is Turkey’s main trading
partner, and  export growth  slowed to an average of 6.8 percent
in the third quarter. Imports jumped 24 percent, swelling the
annual  current account deficit  to $37.1 billion in September.  “Widening imbalances tell us there’s an increasing risk of
a large currency correction,” said  Lars Christensen , chief
emerging market analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen.  Inflation-linked bonds track consumer-price gains to
compensate investors for the erosion of debt values. The bonds
rise as consumer price expectations increase, sending yields
lower, and coupons also rise in line with inflation.  The profit on the Turkish bonds this year is the highest
among 18 countries tracked by Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Index.  Kieran Curtis , who helps manage $2 billion of emerging-
market debt at Aviva Investors, a unit of Britain’s second-
largest insurer, said he has started to sell Turkish linked
bonds after their “spectacular” gains. Speaking in a phone
interview in London, Curtis said Turkey’s boom makes it “very
unlikely” inflation will be below the central bank’s forecast.  “The current account deficit is growing, which suggests
the economy may be growing above its capacity,” he said. “That
doesn’t sound like a disinflationary environment to me.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 