-- Iraq Expects to Sign Contracts to Boost Gas Production Soon, Officials Say
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2010-11-25T15:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/iraq-to-sign-delayed-akkas-gas-field-contract-soon-official-says.html
Iraq expects soon to sign two
agreements to boost its production of gas, one with  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc  and  Mitsubishi Corp.  and the other with companies from
South Korea and Kazakhstan, officials said today.  Iraq’s oil ministry also foresees a 15 percent increase in
crude output in early 2011 at Rumaila, Zubair and other oil
fields in the country’s south, they said, speaking in interviews
in the Iraqi city of Basra.  The government will sign by the end of January an agreement
with Shell and Mitsubishi for the capture of associated gas at
southern oil fields, said Ali Hussain Khudair, the director-
general of Iraq’s South Gas Co. said. Iraq is also due “soon”
to sign a delayed contract for the Akkas gas field, said Sabah
Abdel-Kadhim, assistant deputy director general at the
ministry’s Petroleum Contracts and Licensing Directorate.  While Iraq generates most of its revenue from oil sales,
the government wants to produce gas as fuel for power plants,
which haven’t been able to meet demand. Iraq is seeking to
develop its gas reserves to help generate power and for export.
The country awarded licenses last month in its first auction of
gas concessions since the U.S.-led invasion that ousted  Saddam Hussein  in 2003.  Iraq wants foreign investors to help it increase
production of both oil and gas to stimulate a recovery after
years of conflict and economic sanctions. Iraq has the world’s
fifth-largest oil reserves, excluding oil in its northern
Kurdish territory, and its gas reserves rank fifth in
size in the Middle East, according to data from BP Plc.  Legal Details  A joint-venture agreement with Shell and Mitsubishi will be
signed “either next month or the one after at the most,” once
legal details are resolved, Khudair said.  The government gave initial approval on June 29 for the
creation of a joint venture with Shell and Mitsubishi to be
called Basra Gas Co. The venture would be owned 51 percent by
state-run South Gas, with Shell holding 44 percent and
Mitsubishi the remaining 5 percent.  A foreign consulting firm is working to settle issues
related to the venture’s establishment, Khudair said, without
identifying the company.  “Once the agreement is signed, it will be sent to the
Cabinet for approval,” he said.  Most of Iraq’s associated gas, which is pumped in
conjunction with crude oil, is flared. The country burns more
than 1 billion cubic feet of gas a day, or 28 million cubic
meters. Shell plans eventually to capture and sell about 700
million cubic feet of gas a day in southern Iraq.  Delayed Signing  The ministry had planned to sign an agreement for the Akkas
gas field on Nov. 14, with  Korea Gas Corp. , known as Kogas, and
Kazakhstan’s state fuel producer called  KazMunaiGaz . Abdel-
Kadhim of the ministry’s Petroleum Contracts and Licensing
Directorate did not give a specific timeframe for an agreement.  Kuwait Energy Co., Turkiye Petrolleri and Korea Gas
signed contracts in Baghdad on Nov. 14 to develop two additional
gas fields, Mansouriya and Siba. Iraq postponed the agreement
for Akkas to “clear the misunderstanding” over the planned use
of fuel from that deposit, Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi, the
directorate’s deputy director general, said at the time.  Largest Field  Akkas is the largest of the three fields for which the
government awarded licenses on Oct. 20. Kogas and KazMunaiGaz
agreed to produce 400 million standard cubic feet of gas a day
at Akkas at a price of $5.50 a barrel of oil equivalent
produced. Mansouriya, Siba and Akkas together hold 11 trillion
cubic feet of gas, Oil Minister  Hussain al-Shahristani  said in
October.  State-owned South Oil Co. expects crude oil output to rise
by 15 percent early next year to 2 million barrels a day,
Director General Dhia Jaafar al-Musawi said. The increase will
come from a rise in production of 200,000 barrels a day at
Rumaila and Zubair and 50,000 barrels a day from other areas in
the same region, al-Musawi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  