-- Iraqi President Talabani Invites Maliki to Form Government for Second Term
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2010-11-25T10:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/iraqi-president-officially-invites-maliki-to-form-government.html
Iraqi President  Jalal Talabani 
officially invited Prime Minister  Nuri al-Maliki  to form a
government for a second term in office.  The nomination, made at a ceremony in Baghdad today that
was shown on state-sponsored al-Iraqiyah television, marks the
formal start of the 30-day period specified in the constitution
during which al-Maliki must name his cabinet before submitting
it to a vote of confidence in parliament.  Talabani had already indicated that al-Maliki would form
the next government when lawmakers convened on Nov. 11 to re-
elect the president and choose a speaker and his deputies. The
appointments were the result of an agreement among Iraqi leaders
to form a coalition including all the main ethnic and religious
groups, and end eight months of wrangling since parliamentary
elections failed to give any party a majority.  “It will be a government of partnership,” al-Maliki, who
heads the largest Shiite Muslim bloc in parliament, said in a
speech during the ceremony at the Al-Salam presidential palace.
“No one will be neglected.”  Under the accord, former premier  Ayad Allawi  will lead a
new council to oversee security and foreign policy. His Iraqiyah
alliance, backed by Sunni and secular voters, won the most seats
in the March balloting, though Allawi was unable to secure
enough support to form a government.  U.S. and regional leaders had urged an end to the political
deadlock, which coincided with a surge in violence and delayed
the approval of the 2011 budget.  The new government will take office as the U.S. prepares to
pull out its remaining troops next year, and must address long-
standing disputes over issues including Iraq’s internal
boundaries and rights to the country’s oil and gas reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 