-- Irish Banks May Need Up to $40 Billion in Extra Capital, CreditSights Says
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2010-11-25T12:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/irish-banks-may-need-up-to-40-billion-in-extra-capital-creditsights-says.html
Irish banks may need as much as 30
billion euros ($40 billion) of new capital before investors will
be persuaded to fund them, according to  CreditSights Inc.   Allied Irish Banks Plc  and  Bank of Ireland , the nation’s
biggest lenders, will probably have to boost their so-called
core Tier 1 ratio to 15 percent from 8 percent, analyst  Simon Adamson  wrote in a note today. Allied Irish needs 9.1 billion
euros and Bank of Ireland needs 4.5 billion euros, based on
CreditSights’ analysis of the banks’ latest financial reports.  “If you really want to put the banks in a position where
people are comfortable, a 15 percent core Tier 1 ratio is
probably the level you’re going to need,” London-based Adamson
said in an interview. “The alternative would be to have a pot
of money available if needed, but at that point you might as
well just put it in.”  Ireland is in talks with the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  on an 85 billion-euro aid package as
the authorities seek to avoid the nation’s financial crisis
spreading to Portugal and Spain. Ireland’s financial system
imploded after banks racked up losses when a decade-long real-
estate boom ended.  Anglo Irish Bank Plc, which was  nationalized  last year, is
slated to receive 11.4 billion euros of new capital, though its
final needs will depend on what the government decides to do
with the lender, Adamson wrote.  Subordinated Losses  The country is likely to resist taking full ownership of
Allied Irish and Bank of Ireland. The recapitalization of Allied
Irish will bring the government’s stake to “close to 100
percent,” while its 36 percent share in Bank of Ireland is
likely to rise to “a significant majority,” Adamson wrote.  The banks’ subordinated debt holders may face losses,
according to Adamson.  “It would be no surprise if the European Commission and
the IMF tried to impose losses on holders of subordinated debt
in the Irish banks,” he said.  The government may copy the template used with Anglo Irish
subordinated bonds, where investors exchanged existing notes at
a minimum 80 percent discount for government-guaranteed senior
debt, according to Adamson’s note.  “There are few hard facts and predicting the outcome for
the Irish banks is mainly speculative,” he wrote. Among the
more likely outcomes is that “subordinated debt holders could
suffer substantial losses in a similarly structured deal to that
used for Anglo Irish.”  The government is unlikely to impose losses on senior
bondholders, partly because it wants the banks to return to the
markets soon, Adamson wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  