-- Irish Meltdown Lights Fire Under Fellow Debtors: Vanessa Rossi
-- B y   V a n e s s a   R o s s i
-- 2010-11-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/irish-crisis-lights-fire-under-fellow-debtors-commentary-by-vanessa-rossi.html
Ireland had little choice but to
accept European Union help to avoid a breakdown in the financial
system. There was no other way to rescue the banks without
placing the burden on Ireland’s 4.5 million people.  At the peak of the financial crisis, the U.K. and U.S. were
able to provide guarantees worth trillions of dollars to support
their banks, though the actual costs turned out to be much lower
as confidence was quickly restored. The full extent of the
guarantee was largely hypothetical. They succeeded because they
could make a credible promise of support -- Ireland could not.  The Irish banking meltdown, so soon after the euro-area
stress tests this year, raises questions over the reliability of
these assessments, which failed to put enough emphasis not just
on bad debts but on the risk of relying on the wholesale market
for funds. The tests, which covered some banks but not others,
will cast doubt on the strength of the remaining European banks.  While the Greek crisis served to heat up the debate over
enforcing Maastricht rules on limiting budget deficits, Ireland
highlights the more complex and far-reaching policy issues that
involve systemic risk. There is no rulebook for this, let alone
policing mechanisms. But the Irish bailout may lead to demands
for wide-ranging restrictions on economic policy and on the size
of member states’ banking industries and property markets. And
such intrusion may extend beyond the euro area.  Tax Increases  This implication has, to some extent, already surfaced in
suggestions that Ireland should give up its 12.5 percent
corporate-tax regime, even though this would be unlikely to
improve the country’s fiscal position much and may well hurt
Irish growth prospects. Extended regulation would have damaging
consequences for those economies with large banking centers: The
U.K. and France may come under the spotlight, for example.  Risk control versus policy intrusion will become a thorny
issue for the EU to grapple with as those countries that provide
bailout funds demand ever-more-restrictive conditions and
penalties of the debtors -- and even seek to use the opportunity
to change competitive advantages.  The Irish crisis is so important not because of its scale,
but because of its origin. Unlike Greece, Ireland didn’t
contravene  Maastricht rules  -- it was an exemplary member state
rather than an offender.  From the late 1980s until 2007, Ireland ran budget
surpluses, bringing government debt to less than 30 percent of
 gross domestic product  by the mid-2000s.  Celtic Hubris  Ireland’s crisis stems from its oversized property and
banking sectors, both burdened with bad debts. The Celtic Tiger
enjoyed an average growth rate of about 6.5 percent from 1990 to
2007, which brought rapid prosperity, but also hubris and a
housing-market bubble of massive proportions. At its peak in
2006, one house was being built for every 50 citizens in the
country -- more than three times the figure for the U.S.  Since the peak in late 2006, average house prices have
plummeted by more than 35 percent (according to the permanent
TSB/ESRI house-price index). This has left many households
facing negative equity and has led to a slump in construction.
So-called ghost estates may encompass some 300,000 properties in
various stages of completion, producing losses of as much as 50
billion euros ($68 billion), similar in scale to the bank
bailout announced by the Irish government in September.  Funding in Jeopardy  Now the banks require an even larger recapitalization to
avoid collapse. Not only have bad debts escalated but the
lenders’ short-term funding is in jeopardy. Ireland’s ability to
take on a large recapitalization alone is doubtful since bank
liabilities represent more than 10 times the nation’s GDP.  Weak economic data and failing support from the European
Central Bank have led to a slump in confidence in the Irish
economy and the viability of its banking industry, making
funding in the market increasingly costly or impossible to
obtain. This is reminiscent of the U.K.’s experience of Northern
Rock Plc’s failure.  If Ireland negotiates EU funding of almost 100 billion
euros, this may seem to be an adequate provision -- it should
cover bad debts and recapitalize the banks.  But there are still doubts about whether Ireland can
develop a growth strategy that will help repay the huge increase
in its  public-sector debt  (the same question that hangs over
Greece). If fiscal tightening pushes the country deep into
recession, the loans will be hard to repay. Markets also need to
be convinced that Ireland and its banks have a credible plan.
Otherwise the funding that the banks depend on won’t return.  If the banks need further financial support, ramping up
Ireland’s government debt is no longer a viable option -- the EU
would have to back the banks or let them fail. Never mind
concerns about a bailout for Portugal, the inability to stem the
outflow of funds from Irish banks may start a bonfire that
spreads beyond Ireland. The bond vigilantes are less of a threat
than the banking market turning on its own weaker lenders.  ( Vanessa Rossi  is a senior research fellow in international
economics at Chatham House in London. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Vanessa Rossi at  vrossi@chathamhouse.org.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  