-- Italy’s ‘Pure’ Chocolate Law Breaks EU Rules on Candy Labeling
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2010-11-25T11:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/italy-s-pure-chocolate-law-breaks-european-union-rules-on-candy-labeling.html
Italian rules allowing candy makers
to label their products as “pure chocolate” breach European
Union law, the region’s highest court said.  Permitting chocolate made from pure cocoa butter to be
called “cioccolato puro,” or “pure chocolate,” clashes with
EU-wide measures which allow chocolate laced with vegetable fats
to be marketed as chocolate, the tribunal in Luxembourg said.  EU law “makes no provision for the sales name pure
chocolate,” the court said. Allowing an extra sales name for
chocolate that contains no vegetable fat “is likely to mislead
consumers and thus interfere with their right to obtain correct,
neutral and objective information.”  Chocolate rules have sparked legal battles since 1973, when
the U.K., Ireland and Denmark joined the EU and balked at
standards which required chocolate to contain only cocoa fats.
Under the old rules, countries such as Italy were allowed to
block imports of chocolate made with alternative fats.  The European Commission, the 27 nation EU’s executive
agency,  sued  Italy in 2008 for failing to change its law in line
with current rules allowing companies to sell common products
across the region.  Spokespeople for the Italian government weren’t immediately
available to comment.  The EU “has introduced full harmonization of sales names
for cocoa and chocolate products in order to guarantee the
single nature” of the region, the court said.  Under the EU law, the labeling of products as chocolate is
allowed for products that contain as much as 5 percent of
vegetable fats other than cocoa butter.  Italy is free to show that its chocolate consists of pure
cocoa butter, without additional vegetable fats, by adding a
statement to the packaging, the court said.  The case is C-47/09, European Commission v Italy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  