-- Japan's Deflation Moderated in October as Government Increased Tobacco Tax
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-11-26T06:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/japan-s-deflation-moderated-in-october-as-government-increases-tobacco-tax.html
Japan’s  consumer prices  fell for a
20th month in October, with declines moderating after the
government raised tobacco taxes.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food fell 0.6 percent from
a year earlier after dropping 1.1 percent in September, the
statistics bureau said today in Tokyo. The government’s Oct. 1
tax increase, which boosted the cost of cigarettes by a third,
added 0.28 percentage point to the figure, the bureau said.  Entrenched deflation is weighing on an economy at risk of
contracting this quarter after a climb in the yen to a 15-year
high undermined export growth. The currency’s 11 percent advance
against the dollar this year has also exacerbated price declines
by lowering import costs, adding to the case for the Bank of
Japan to provide more monetary stimulus.  “Deflationary pressures have been easing slightly but it’s
unclear whether that trend is sustainable,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo. “The
economy will probably shrink this quarter and the strong yen is
also going to start pushing down prices.”  October’s price drop matched the median forecast of 28
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. An increase in insurance
fees also pushed the index up by 0.15 percentage point, the
bureau said.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond rose two
basis points to 1.175 percent at the morning close in Tokyo, the
highest since Sept. 7.  Persistent Pressure  “There’s still a huge amount of slack in the economy,
which is persistently exercising downward pressure on prices,”
even though the drops have eased,  Yoshiki Shinke , a senior
economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo, said
before the report. “It’s hard to predict when prices will turn
positive,” he said, predicting that gross domestic product will
shrink this quarter.  Pressure for the BOJ to do more to fight deflation has
grown, with both ruling and opposition lawmakers calling for
legislation that would give politicians more control over
monetary policy.  A group of lawmakers from the ruling Democratic Party of
Japan said this week the bank should adopt an inflation target
to eradicate price declines and help bolster employment. The
members also want to revise a law that guarantees the central
bank’s independence. Your Party, an opposition group, last week
submitted a bill to the parliament, calling for a revision that
would incorporate a target.  Political Pressure  “Although the chance for an actual revision of the law is
slim, politicians’ actions of debating the issue alone would
have some influence on monetary policy,” said  Naomi Hasegawa , a
senior fixed-income strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co. in Tokyo.  BOJ policy makers last month forecast core prices, which
exclude fresh food, will start to rise in the year starting
April 2011. The bank last month pledged to maintain ”virtually
zero” interest rates until an outlook emerges for sustained
price increases. Board members say they consider inflation
stable in a positive range of up to 2 percent, with their median
estimate at 1 percent.  Falling prices undermine an economy by eroding corporate
earnings, putting pressure on wages, and making debts harder to
pay off. Deflation has afflicted Japan for more than a decade,
contributing to its being surpassed by China in the second
quarter as the world’s second-largest economy, after the U.S.  A separate government report today showed Japan’s land
values fell at 87 of 150 prime locations throughout the country,
or 58 percent of monitored sites, compared with 70 percent three
months earlier.  Yen’s Advance  Some board members said falling prices may damp long-term
inflation expectations of companies and households, minutes of
the bank’s Oct. 28 meeting showed this month. The yen’s advance
lowers prices by making imports cheaper and that dynamic
”warrants caution,”  Seiji Nakamura , a BOJ board member, said
in a speech yesterday.  Seiyu Ltd., a supermarket operator owned by U.S.-based  Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. , this week began discounting 3,200 items
including food, clothing and household goods by as much as 60
percent. Daiei Inc., another supermarket operator, is also
cutting prices of household goods by as much as 25 percent.  A revision of the base year to calculate consumer prices
scheduled for August 2011 will also likely lower Japanese price
data. The last government revision pushed down prices by about
0.5 percentage point.  ”Consumer price data will probably be depressed by the
next year’s revision more than last time,” BNP Paribas
economists  Ryutaro Kono  and  Azusa Kato  wrote in a report. ”The
BOJ’s exit from its virtual zero-rate policy seems considerably
far away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  