-- Jilin Has `Empty Warehouses' as Processors Compete for Corn, Daily Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-25T01:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/jilin-has-empty-warehouses-as-processors-compete-for-corn-daily-says.html
Many granaries in Jilin province,
China’s largest corn producing area, are struggling with “empty
warehouses” as they can’t get enough corn because of
competition from processing companies,  the National Business
Daily  said today.  Local farmers are reluctant to sell their crops even after
predictions that Jilin may harvest a record 29.5 million metric
tons of grain in 2010, it added. The reluctance was mainly
caused by processing companies bidding up prices, the newspaper
said, citing Fu Guangrui, an official for a state reserve
warehouse in Changchun city.  “The more prices gain, the less farmers want to part with
their corn now,” Zheng Guicheng, deputy general manager at
Changchun Dacheng Industrial Group Co., was quoted as saying.
The company is a unit of the biggest corn processing company in
Asia, it said.  The farmers used to line up outside of the granaries at
this time in previous years, to sell their harvest to raise cash.
Now empty warehouses are the prevailing scene in Jilin province,
the newspaper said.  A rally in the prices of corn starch and sugar has boosted
the processing companies’ profit margin and fueled their demand
for the raw material, the newspaper said. Corn purchasing prices
have gained to 1,900 yuan ($286) a ton in Jilin, compared with
1,700 yuan at this time last year, it added.  “We aren’t going to get any grains if we offer farmers the
government-set minimum-purchasing prices,” Fu at the state-
reserve warehouse was quoted as saying. “We will have to be
guided by the prevailing market prices.”  -- Feiwen Rong . Editor:  James Poole   To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  