-- Kaupthing Creditors May Get Debt-for-Equity Swap in a Year, Committee Says
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-11-25T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/kaupthing-creditors-may-get-debt-for-equity-swap-in-a-year-committee-says.html
Creditors of failed Icelandic lender
 Kaupthing Bank hf  may get their claims settled in about a year
as the bank’s winding-up committee looks into the option of
swapping debt for equity.  “We could see issuing some kind of financial instruments
to the creditors in a year’s time,” said  Olafur Gardarsson , the
head of Kaupthing’s winding-up committee, in an interview.
“Those who need the money can cash out and others that want to
see a greater return on their investment can choose to sit back
and wait.”  Kaupthing, which failed in October 2008 after it was unable
to access wholesale markets, faces total claims of about $56
billion, according to a creditors report published last month.
Investors who bought bonds in the bank can expect 26.25 cents
back on the euro, data provided by brokerage  H.F. Verdbref hf 
show. Iceland’s special prosecutor is still investigating former
Kaupthing executives for crimes including market manipulation
and forgery.  Creditors will have the freedom to choose how their claims
are settled as far as is possible, Gardarsson said. Each
creditor will learn the status of his claim on Dec. 3. Kaupthing
formally entered winding-up proceedings on Nov. 22, following a
ruling by the District Court of Reykjavik. The measure brought
to an end a moratorium on debt repayment, the bank said then.  After handling the claims, Kaupthing “has the opportunity
to enter a composition agreement,” Gardarsson said. “How each
claim was handled doesn’t really matter; whether they were
approved or rejected.”  Exit Points  Since Kaupthing’s failure, the bank’s resolution committee,
on behalf of creditors, agreed to take an 87 percent stake in
Arion Bank hf, a state-created unit comprising Kaupthing’s
domestic assets. The unit will be put toward covering claims,
though some bond holders say they never agreed to the
transaction.  Creditors can choose to run the bank as an asset management
company or “they could change this into a company in full
operation, which would then issue new loans and be a fully
functioning company,” Gardarsson said. “We have to find a
variety of exit points” for creditors with different demands,
he said.  The country’s new banks, all state-created successors to
the failed lenders, face losses as the government of Prime
Minister  Johanna Sigurdardottir  looks into providing debt relief
to struggling households. Lawmakers, banks, pension funds and
other interest groups are discussing proposals including writing
down $1.4 billion in mortgage debt, equivalent to about 10
percent of Iceland’s 2009 gross domestic product.  ‘Reserve All Rights’  Creditors at the island’s lenders have said they will fight
measures that hurt their financial interests after the
government asked banks to guarantee they won’t sue even if debt
relief leads to losses.  Bond holders “reserve all rights to pursue any and all
legal remedies to prevent the losses caused by the proposed
legislation,” according to an Oct. 26 letter signed by Ragnar
Adalsteinsson, a lawyer with Adalsteinsson & Partners, who
represents creditors of Kaupthing, Glitnir Bank hf and
Landsbanki Islands hf.  Before its failure more than two years ago, Kaupthing was
Iceland’s biggest bank having seen its profit grow 50-fold from
2000 to 2005 after it borrowed money abroad to expand outside
Iceland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  