-- Charges Against Agliotti for Kebble’s Murder Dropped
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-11-25T15:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/kebble-murder-accused-agliotti-has-charges-dropped-by-johannesburg-court.html
Charges against  Glenn Agliotti  for
the murder of South African mining magnate  Brett Kebble  were
dropped by a Johannesburg court.  The state has not made a prima facie case, Judge Frans
Kgomo said in the South Gauteng High Court today. Agliotti, 54,
kissed his lawyer, Laurance Hodes, on both cheeks after Kgomo
told him he was free to go.  “I am very angry for what they put me through ” Agliotti,
who was arrested in 2006, told reporters at the court as friends
clustered around the convicted drug dealer. “It affected my
whole life, my family is very traumatized.”  The four-month trial showed that Kebble, who died at the
age of 41, had become a suicidal recluse as he considered
poisoning himself and bringing down a plane that he was in
before ordering his own shooting to avoid a possible jail
sentence. Kebble bled to death in his silver Mercedes S600 on
the night of Sept. 27, 2005 after being shot seven times on a
road crossing the main highway into Johannesburg’s city center.  Kebble, who had been forced to resign as chief executive
officer of three mining companies, faced a probe after assets
worth hundreds of millions of dollars went missing from  Randgold
& Exploration Ltd. , a Johannesburg-based company that he led.
Marais Steyn, Randgold’s CEO, declined to comment when called
today.  Nothing Embarrassing  In an 11-year career in South Africa’s gold mining
industry, Kebble, who was also CEO of Johannesburg’s JCI Ltd.
and Western Areas Ltd., helped set up two of the country’s four
biggest gold companies,  Harmony Gold Mining Co.  and  DRDGold Ltd.   Testimony from Clinton Nassif, who said he helped arrange
the killing, was “annihilated”, Hodes said on Nov. 18.
Agliotti didn’t testify.  Mobile phone records and an undertaking by Agliotti to pay
the hit men for the murder supported the case, prosecutor Dan
Dakana told the court last week.  “I don’t see anything embarrassing about this,” Mthunzi
Mhaga, a spokesman for the National Prosecuting Authority, told
reporters at the court, adding that the prosecutors will decide
whether to appeal the judgment. The state will continue to seek
the extradition of John Stratton, a business partner of
Kebble’s, from Australia to help with investigations, he said.  Pleaded to Be Killed  Mikey Schultz, a boxer, Nigel McGurk, a nightclub bouncer,
and Faizel Smith, a body shop owner, told the court how they met
Kebble on a northern Johannesburg street and shot him. The
three, and Nassif, agreed to testify against Agliotti in
exchange for immunity from prosecution for the crime. They told
the court that Agliotti had ordered the killing, working through
Nassif, who served as an intermediary.  Kgomo today said Nassif had been discredited and stripped
him of immunity from prosecution. He said that the three killers
are still entitled to indemnity. Nassif on July 29 told the
court that Kebble “pleaded” with him to arrange the killing.  “Nassif was proven to be an untruthful witness who changed
his version whenever an inconsistency in his evidence was
pointed out,” Kgomo said. “Nassif’s evidence is of such poor
quality that it cannot be safely relied on.”  Agliotti pleaded not guilty to ordering the murder even as
he said the death was an “assisted suicide” in an
affidavit used during his bail hearing. The statement was not
admissible as evidence during the trial.  South Africa’s former National Police Commissioner and one-
time Interpol President  Jackie Selebi  was sentenced to a 15-year
jail sentence for corruption on Aug. 3 after he was found guilty
of taking bribes from Agliotti, who arranged for the policeman
to meet Kebble. While Agliotti testified against Selebi he was
stripped of immunity from prosecution because of the quality of
his evidence.  “This case is about hidden and sinister agendas
perpetrated by shady characters and greedy business persons,”
Kgomo said. “It is about corrupt civil servants as well as
politicians and politically connected individuals wining and
dining with devils incarnate under the shade of darkness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 