-- Kenya's Central Bank Says it Keeps Benchmark Lending Rate Steady at 6%
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-11-25T13:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/kenya-s-central-bank-keeps-benchmark-rate-unchanged-at-6-as-lending-grows.html
Kenya’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for the second straight
meeting, following six cuts since last year, after commercial
lenders increased loans to consumers and businesses.  The Monetary Policy Committee left the key lending rate at
a record low of 6 percent, the Nairobi-based  Central Bank of
Kenya  said in an e-mailed statement today. The decision was
expected by all four economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Previous cuts haven’t had much effect in bringing down
base rates at commercial banks,” James Mose, a research analyst
with CFC Stanbic Financial Services Ltd., said in an interview
from Nairobi, the Kenyan capital. “So we didn’t expect another
cut today.”  Kenya’s central bank has reduced rates by 2.5 percentage
points since March 2009 as it sought to encourage commercial
lenders to increase loans and help the economy recover from the
global crisis. Bank lending, led by demand from Kenyan
households, advanced 6 percent to 878.8 billion shillings ($11
billion) in the third quarter, according to the central bank.  Growth in East Africa’s biggest economy accelerated to an
annual 5.4 percent in the second quarter from 4.8 percent in the
previous three-month period, after rain ended a drought and
boosted farming output and hydropower generation.  The economy may grow 6 percent in 2011, compared with an
estimated 5 percent this year and 2.6 percent in 2009, Kenyan
President  Mwai Kibaki  said last month.  Ratings Upgrade  Kenya’s improved economic outlook was one of the reasons
that Standard & Poor’s cited for raising its sovereign rating
for the country by one step to B+, four levels below investment
grade,  on Nov. 19.  There is “increased confidence in the economy,” led by
growth in agriculture, construction, manufacturing and finance,
the central bank said today.  Kenyan lenders have failed to match previous reductions in
the key lending rate. Banks’ average lending rate was 14 percent
in September, down from 14.2 percent a month earlier, according
to central bank statistics. Banks have scope to reduce the cost
of borrowing further after deposits grew, Central Bank Governor
 Njuguna Ndung’u  said last month.  Interest charges fell the most at mid-sized banks, where
maturity lengths increased, and many lenders “continue to
operate in an environment of high returns not commensurate with
risk,” the central bank said today.  Higher Profits  Equity Bank Ltd. , Kenya’s biggest by market value, last
month reported a 52 percent increase in nine-month profit driven
by higher interest income from loans.  Barclays Bank of Kenya
Ltd. , the second-largest lender, reported on Nov. 19 that net
income between January and September surged 20 percent.  Growth in lending hasn’t triggered inflation, which
remained below the government’s target of 5 percent over the
past eight months.  The government’s borrowing program is not expected to put
pressure on interest rates, while inflation is at an
“appropriate” level, the central bank said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 Smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 