-- KKR-Led Group to Purchase Meow Mix Maker Del Monte Foods for $4 Billion
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-11-26T21:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/kkr-led-group-to-purchase-meow-mix-maker-del-monte-foods-for-4-billion.html
A  KKR & Co. -led group agreed to
acquire  Del Monte Foods Co.  in a $4 billion transaction that
will give the New York buyout firm pet-food brands such as  Meow
Mix  and Kibbles ‘n Bits.  KKR , Vestar Capital Partners and Centerview Partners will
pay $19 a share in cash, San Francisco-based  Del Monte  said in a
statement yesterday. The buyers will assume about $1.3 billion
in debt. The deal will likely close in March, unless Del Monte
finds a better offer before Jan. 8, according to the statement.  The acquisition brings  KKR  a pet-food business whose  sales 
have more than doubled in the past four years, bolstered by the
purchase of cat-food labels and Milk Bone dog treats. The unit’s
 revenue  climbed 4.6 percent last year, more than twice the rate
of the unit that produces canned fruit, accounting for almost
half  Del Monte’s  $3.74 billion in total revenue.  “ Del Monte  has a history of success in its fruit and
vegetable offerings; unfortunately, that is the half of the
company that has seen its fortunes  fall  during the down
economy,” Marcia Mogelonsky, an analyst at  Mintel International 
in Chicago, said in an interview. “ KKR  and other potential
buyers are more likely to be looking to grow the pet-food
products than the fruit and vegetables, as the recession seems
to have been kinder to dogs and cats than to humans.”  Del Monte  rose 84 cents, or 4.7 percent, to $18.83 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have  climbed 
66 percent this year.  Biggest Deal  This is the largest leveraged buyout agreement since the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 led banks to
shun financing for most such transactions. The offer price is
about 40 percent more than Del Monte’s average stock close in
the three months to Nov. 18, the company said. It values Del
Monte at about 6.3 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  In 2006, buyout firms TPG Capital and Leonard Green &
Partners LP agreed to buy Petco Animal Supplies Inc. for about
$1.8 billion, the largest U.S. pet-care industry deal in the
past five years. That transaction, whose premium amounted to 48
percent, valued the company at about 7.9 times Ebitda.  KKR, run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , isn’t alone in
pursuing pet foods this year.  Nestle SA , the world’s largest
food company, bought dog-snack maker Waggin’ Train LLC from
private equity firm VMG Partners in September, and in May,
 Procter & Gamble Co.  agreed to acquire closely held Natura Pet
Products Inc.  Pet Success  The pet-food unit’s share of Del Monte’s total sales has
 grown  to 47 percent in the 12 months ended April, from 29
percent in fiscal 2005.  Sales  derived from pet products more
than doubled in the five years through April, compared with a
3.4 decline for the rest of the business, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  More than 60 percent of U.S. households have at least one
 pet , according to the  American Pet Products Association . The
U.S. pet-food market grew 26 percent to $18.9 billion from 2005
to 2010, according to data tracker Euromonitor International in
Chicago. Del Monte has a 9 percent share, placing it fifth
behind Nestle, Mars Inc., Procter & Gamble, and  Colgate-
Palmolive Co ., Euromonitor said.  The consumer business accounts for the rest of Del Monte’s
revenue. That division is likely to face challenges in the first
half of the year, Chief Executive Officer  Richard Wolford  said
on a September conference call. More than 90 percent of Del
Monte’s  sales  are generated in the U.S.  Canned Food Deals  Over the past five years, there have been more than 25
deals in North America targeting canned food companies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average premium in
those deals was 15.2 percent.  “Del Monte is a perfect target for a private equity
firm,” analyst  Tim Ramey  of D.A. Davidson said today in a note
to clients. “The company has long been valued well below the
rest of the food sector.” The Lake Oswego, Oregon-based analyst
recommends buying the shares.  The buyout of Del Monte by KKR follows other private-equity
food deals and speculation. On Nov. 5, Lion Capital LLC of
London said it would acquire canned-seafood maker Bumble Bee
Foods LLC from New York buyout firm Centre Partners Management
LLC for $980 million.  Barclays Capital Inc. provided financial advice to Del
Monte, while Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP gave legal counsel.
Centerview Partners was the lead financial adviser to the buyout
group. Bank of America Merrill Lynch, J.P. Morgan Securities and
Morgan Stanley also gave financial advice to KKR and its
partners, while Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP gave legal
counsel.  Deal Funding  Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Barclays Capital,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co . and Morgan Stanley arranged the debt financing,
joining KKR Capital Markets LLC, according to a statement
yesterday.  According to a regulatory filing from Del Monte today, Del
Monte would pay a termination fee of $60 million if it finds a
better offer and $120 million “in all other circumstances.”
KKR would pay a breakup fee of $249 million if it walks away,
according to the filing.  Del Monte and KKR’s history together goes back at least two
decades, when the New York firm sold the canned-food business
after its $25 billion buyout of RJR Nabisco.  New York-based Vestar was founded in 1988 and has been
involved in deals for Birds Eye Foods, Michael Foods, and
Celestial Seasonings. Centerview is based in Rye, New York, and
provided advice to  Kraft Foods Inc . on the sale of its frozen
pizza business to Nestle SA earlier this year.  Buyout companies use a combination of their own funds and
debt to pay for takeovers and then seek to improve  profit  by
boosting sales, selling assets and cutting costs. The firms
typically sell the companies within five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  