-- South Korean Bonds Gain on Optimism for Government Support; Won Advances
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2010-11-25T07:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/korean-won-declines-for-a-third-day-as-border-tensions-linger-bonds-drop.html
South Korea’s three-year bonds
gained for a third day and the won reversed earlier losses on
optimism policy makers are prepared to buy the securities amid
tensions with North Korea.  The yield fell to its lowest level in almost a week as the
government said it will increase diplomatic efforts to secure
help from China, North Korea’s closest ally, following a deadly
exchange of artillery fire. The finance ministry said yesterday
“ample” liquidity will be supplied in local and foreign
currencies to shield markets from any shocks after North’s
attack on one of the country’s islands two days ago.  Policy makers “have a strong view to stabilize the market,
especially the bond market,” said  Peter Park , a fixed-income
analyst for Woori Investment & Securities in Seoul. “The
appreciation of the won also helped the bond market.”  The yield on the 3.75 percent notes maturing in June 2013
dropped four basis points to 3.31 percent, according to the
Korea Stock Exchange.  The won reversed earlier losses as the benchmark Kospi
stock index gained after two days of losses.  “The stock market is stable,” said  Sam Hong , a currency
dealer at Shinhan Bank in Seoul. The “shock” over the incident
with the North has faded, he said.  The won advanced 0.4 percent to 1,137.65 per dollar at the
close in Seoul, after declining as much as 0.7 percent today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has
weakened 2.1 percent in the past month.  President  Barack Obama  talked with South Korean
counterpart  Lee Myung Bak  by phone and dispatched the USS George
Washington from Japan yesterday to take part in military drills.  The North’s shelling of Yeonpyeong island was the first
such attack on South Korean soil since the Korean War. Two
soldiers and two civilians were killed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 