-- Carlyle Enters Takeover Battle With $620 Million Bid for KFC Operator QSR
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-11-25T10:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/kulim-malaysia-says-carlyle-asia-makes-takeover-offer-for-qsr-brands-stake.html
Carlyle Group made a 1.94 billion
ringgit ($620 million) takeover offer for Southeast Asian fast-
food chain operator  QSR Brands Bhd. , topping an earlier bid led
by Malaysian businessman  Halim Saad .  Carlyle, a Washington-based private equity firm, offered
6.70 ringgit per share for all of QSR, 19.4 percent more than
the last closing price, according to a statement today by  Kulim
(Malaysia) Bhd. , the restaurant operator’s parent. That’s higher
than an indicative bid of 5.60 ringgit made Nov. 22 by Idaman
Saga Sdn., part-owned by former Renong Bhd. chairman Halim.  A takeover of  QSR  would give the new owner control of  KFC
Holdings (Malaysia) Bhd. , the Southeast Asian nation’s biggest
fast-food operator, as well as the Pizza Hut chain of
restaurants in Malaysia and Singapore. Corporate deals have
surged this year in Malaysia as the economy rebounds, with $20.6
billion of local mergers and acquisitions announced compared
with $7.2 billion for all of 2009, Bloomberg data show.  “With this new bid, it’s more juicy and palatable for
Kulim to accept the offer,” said  Pankaj Kumar , who oversees
$560 million as chief investment officer of Kurnia Insurans
Malaysia Bhd. near Kuala Lumpur. “QSR has the KFC and Pizza Hut
franchises which are jewels and cash cows.”  Kulim owns 55.2 percent of  QSR , which in turn holds 50.6
percent of  KFC , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kulim ,
 QSR  and  KFC  shares were suspended before the statement to the
Kuala Lumpur stock exchange.  KFC Malaysia  A takeover of QSR will trigger an offer for KFC Malaysia,
Kulim said in a separate statement.  “Carlyle’s offer appears fair,” said  Vincent Khoo , head
of research at UOB Kay Hian (Malaysia) Holdings Sdn. "From
Kulim’s perspective, the offer may not be attractive enough as
it would lose control over two listed entities, QSR and KFC.’’  QSR  has gained 69.5 percent this year, compared with the
benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index’s gain of 17.5 percent.
Third-quarter  net income  rose 13.9 percent to 25.3 million
ringgit for the three months ended September, the company said
in a stock exchange filing yesterday.  QSR won’t comment on the bid, a spokesperson who declined
to be identified because of company policy said by phone today.
Halim is traveling overseas and couldn’t be reached for comment,
according to his secretary.  Listed in April 2004, QSR operates more than 530 KFC
restaurants in Malaysia, Singapore, Brunei and Cambodia, as well
as around 230 Pizza Hut outlets in Malaysia and Singapore,
according to its  website .  Malaysia’s Growth  Malaysia’s government has forecast growth of as much as 7
percent this year, the fastest in a decade. The country’s
benchmark index hit a record on Nov. 10 as overseas investors
purchased more stocks than at any time since at least 1995,
according to data compiled by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
research company EPFR Global.  Among the deals this month were the merger between Sunway
Holdings Bhd. and Sunway City in a transaction valued at 4.5
billion ringgit, and a share swap between IJM Land Bhd. and
Malaysian Resources Corp Bhd. valued at $2 billion. UEM Land
Holdings Bhd., the nation’s biggest listed developer, made a
$447 million bid for Sunrise Bhd. on Nov. 4.  “Rising M&A activities reflect strong global liquidity and
a search for investment returns,” said UOB’s Khoo. “Many
companies listed on the local bourse are still undervalued, or
have hidden value which could be harvested with savvy corporate
or financial restructuring.”  Halim, 57, was formerly chairman of Renong, once Malaysia’s
biggest industrial group with businesses from banking to toll
roads and telecommunications.  The government took control of the company in 2001 after it
became the country’s biggest corporate debtor with borrowings of
30 billion ringgit, following the 1997-1998 Asian financial
crisis. Renong was reorganized, its debt trimmed and later
renamed UEM World Bhd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ranjeetha Pakiam  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
 Chan Tien Hin  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid in Hong Kong at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net . 