-- Natural Rubber Supply May Beat Forecast on Indonesia, Producer Group Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-11-25T12:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/natural-rubber-supply-may-beat-forecast-on-indonesia-producer-group-says.html
Natural rubber supply this year may
be more than forecast last month as growers in Indonesia boost
output to benefit from record prices, a producers’ group said.  Production may increase 6.6 percent to 9.5 million metric
tons, more than the 9.4 million tons forecast on Oct. 27,  the
Association of Natural Rubber Producing Countries  said in an e-
mailed statement today. Supply may drop 3.8 percent in the three
months to Dec. 31 as rain disrupts tapping in Thailand, the
biggest producer and exporter, the group said.  Rubber in Tokyo has climbed 30 percent this year as rain in
Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia, the top three growers,
interrupted tapping and lowered production. Futures on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange reached a 30-year high of 383 yen on Nov. 11.  Total supply would be more than earlier predicted because
Indonesia’s estimates for the third and fourth quarter have
“undergone major revisions to the higher side” against a
downward adjustment for Thailand and Malaysia, Jom Jacob, the
group’s senior economist, said in the statement.  Thailand’s rubber supply this year may drop 1.4 percent to
3.12 million tons and rebound 4.1 percent to 3.25 million tons
next year, the group said. Indonesia’s output may jump 16.9
percent to 2.85 million tons this year and climb further to 2.94
million tons in 2011, it said.  The price boom appears “to have prompted the dominant
smallholders in Indonesia to exploit the maximum possible yield
from their trees,” Jacob said. Indonesia’s production gained
33.1 percent in the three months to Sept. 30 and may increase
18.6 percent in the October to December period, he said.  China Drop  China’s consumption of natural rubber, including compound
rubber, may drop 2 percent in the fourth quarter as the
government takes steps to cool commodity prices, the group said.
Imports of all forms of natural rubber may climb 7.1 percent to
3.26 million tons this year and increase by 6 percent to 3.45
million tons in 2011, the group said.  “Natural rubber markets do not appear to have received any
notable support from the demand side,” Jacob said. “Concerns
over China’s new policy measures clouded demand expectations.”  April-delivery rubber on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
gained as much as 2.6 percent to 368.7 yen per kilogram ($4,419
a ton) before settling at 362.6 yen today.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao’s government has raised interest
rates, increased the reserve requirement for banks and pledged
to use price controls if needed as part of efforts to rein in
inflation that reached 4.4 percent last month. Analysts at nine
banks surveyed by Bloomberg News last week predicted the PBOC
will boost borrowing costs a second time by the end of the year.  China’s recent moves to crack down on speculation in
commodities have worked, and prices of goods from cotton to
copper have all declined, the National Development and Reform
Commission said in a statement on its website today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  