-- New Zealand West Coast Reveals Coal Spirit After Mine Accident
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-25T04:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/new-zealand-s-west-coast-reveals-coal-fueled-spirit-after-29-die-in-mine.html
The small New Zealand town of
Greymouth is uniting with the families of 29 men killed in a
mining tragedy on the South Island’s West Coast where dangerous
jobs earn the region NZ$500 million ($379 million) a year.  An explosion at around 2:40 p.m. yesterday ended all hopes
of survival for the men who’d been trapped without any contact
since a blast at the  Pike River Coal Ltd . mine on Nov. 19.
Frustrated families and searchers had waited five days for safe
conditions inside the shaft to mount a rescue.  Within hours of relatives being told the news, church
services were held, money began flowing into support funds and
flags on all public buildings were lowered as the nation went
into mourning. Coal mining is a cornerstone of the  Greymouth 
district’s economy and also a source of tragedy spanning back
more than a century.  “The coast was developed through extractive industries
like coal, gold, forestry,” said Gerry Morris, a Wellington-
based businessman born in Greymouth, where about 10,000 people
live. “That required a certain breed of man. That creates a
spirit. They were dangerous jobs and in that environment that
develops a tremendous loyalty amongst families.”  Morris, 58, was a child when 19 men were killed at the
 Strongman Mine  about 14 kilometers (9 miles) north of the town
in 1967. He recalls seeing the line of graves dug at the local
cemetery.  On the roadside between Greymouth and the Pike River site,
a 5-meter statue of a miner staring out over the Grey River
marks the spot of the 1896 Brunner disaster, New Zealand’s
worst, where a coal dust explosion claimed 65 lives.  Coal-Driven Economy  An estimated 260 million tons of recoverable coal lies in
the province, according to  Development West Coast , a body set up
to promote industry. About 4 million tons a year is extracted,
employing more than 850 people and contributing NZ$500 million
to the local economy each year.  Coal mining, tourism and dairy farming are the West Coast’s
major industries, supplemented by fishing and gold exploration.
Development West Coast was formed with a NZ$92 million state
grant to establish new industries as the significance of
forestry diminished after conservationists won a battle over the
felling of native trees in the 1990s.  The Pike River accident has spread grief throughout the
West Coast region, where the majority of the  miners were from .
Thirteen of the men lived in Greymouth and nine were from the
nearby smaller towns of Runanga and Cobden. New Zealand is a
“nation in mourning,” Prime Minister  John Key  said when
addressing the country after the second blast.  A Town’s Legacy  One of the miners presumably killed was from Blackball, a
small town on a bluff above the Grey River about 22 kilometers
north of Greymouth. A memorial there explains how a four-month
miners’ strike in 1908 led by Australian unionist Bob Semple
prompted the creation of the New Zealand Labour Party eight
years later.  Coal was discovered in the Greymouth area in 1848,
according to Solid Energy New Zealand Ltd., whose Spring Creek
pit still operates in the district.  Support for miners and their families is evident throughout
Greymouth’s town center, with signs in store windows and
displays of white and yellow ribbons. Flowers were delivered
today to the Grey District Council Hall where the families met
daily after the first explosion.  Community Spirit Abounds  The special spirit of the community will shine through,
Greymouth Mayor Tony Kokshoorn said.  “Coal mining is dangerous. We live with that. It’s all
part of the way we live here on the West Coast.” he told
reporters in Greymouth today.  Kokshoorn and Pike River Chief Executive Officer  Peter Whittall  reiterated throughout the week that they understood the
frustration felt by families and rescuers as dangerous gases
hampered rescue efforts. A 162-meter bore hole to send equipment
into the mine took twice as long to drill as estimated, and a
robot sent into the mine initially broke down in the shaft.  “There’s only so much you can do,” said Kokshoorn. “Coal
mining has always been inherently dangerous for us. We’ve got
all these disasters in the past to prove it. They did their
best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Greymouth at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  