-- Newfoundland’s Premier Williams Says He’ll Step Down
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-11-25T15:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/newfoundland-premier-danny-williams-to-step-down-ending-decade-as-leader.html
Newfoundland and Labrador Premier
 Danny Williams  announced today he will step down on Dec. 3,
saying the time is right after the province signed a major
energy agreement last week.  Nalcor Energy, which is owned by Newfoundland, and Nova
Scotia-based  Emera Inc . agreed to invest C$6.2 billion ($6.1
billion) in a hydroelectric project to transmit power from
Labrador’s Lower Churchill River to customers in eastern Canada
and New England. The companies will also build cables linking
Labrador with the island of Newfoundland and Nova Scotia at a
cost of C$3.3 billion.  “I was quite prepared to stay for another term if some of
my great challenges still lay ahead of me,” Williams told
reporters in a press conference at the provincial legislature in
St. John’s. “With the completion of the Lower Churchill deal,
it is time for new leadership and new ideas.”  Williams will be replaced by  Kathy Dunderdale , the
province’s deputy premier and natural resources minister.  Williams, 61, was first elected in 2003 and re-elected in
2007, when his Progressive Conservative Party won 43 of 48
districts in the province’s  House of Assembly . During his years,
the province’s per gross domestic product increased, and it
stopped receiving  federal transfers  known as equalization.  Williams, who owned a cable company before entering
politics, also fought Exxon Mobil Corp. and Chevron Corp. to get
Newfoundland more royalties from the Hibernia project, Canada’s
biggest offshore deposit.  Williams earlier this year went to the U.S. for heart
surgery after his doctors recommended it. The move to seek
treatment at a private U.S. hospital sparked debate about the
state of Canada’s hospitals and the length of waiting times for
surgery in Canada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 