-- North Korean Shells Shatter Illusions of Security as Wargames Turn Deadly
-- B y   S o o k y u n g   S e o   a n d   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-11-25T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/north-korean-shelling-shatters-islanders-illusion-of-security.html
Like many of the 1,700 residents of
Yeonpyeong island, Shin Seung Won had grown accustomed to the
distant rumble of artillery fire by North and South Korea. This
week, the tit-for-tat exercises took on a deadly reality.  “I’ve lived with the sound of shelling all my life,” said
Shin, who runs a motel on the South Korean island, where the
military conducts live-firing drills less than 20 kilometers
(12.4 miles) away from North Korean troops. “I looked out the
window after hearing a thundering sound and saw my neighbor’s
house on fire,” Shin said in a telephone interview.  North Korea has sought to justify its Nov. 23 shelling of
Yeonpyeong, the first such attack on South Korean soil in half a
century, on what it termed “military provocation” in disputed
waters. Two soldiers and two civilians died in the barrage,
which triggered declines in global financial markets and drew
international condemnation.  “The proximity of these islands to the western border
makes North Korea feel like it’s constantly at gunpoint,” said
 Kim Yong Hyun , professor of North Korean studies at Dongguk
University in Seoul. “The disputed area also gives North Korea
an easy excuse for provocation to create havoc and so get the
international community’s attention.”  The  MSCI World  index dropped as much as 2 percent on the
day of the attack and the won fell more than 1 percent.
President  Barack Obama , South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  and
Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  were among leaders who
condemned  Kim Jong Il ’s regime. China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao 
called for restraint without ascribing any blame to North Korea,
a communist ally for the past 60 years.  Military Response  North Korea’s state-run news service yesterday said it
urged the South to call off exercises in the area and warned of
a military response to any infringement of its “inviolable
territorial” waters. The U.S. sent the aircraft carrier  USS
George Washington  for joint drills off South Korea’s western
coast between Nov. 28 and Dec. 1. The exercises had been planned
before the shelling and are “defensive in nature,” the U.S.
forces in Seoul said in an e-mailed statement.  Yeonpyeong lies 2 1/2-hours by boat from the South Korean
port of Incheon. The government resumed ferry services yesterday
after evacuating many island residents following the attack. The
island is situated about 2 miles from the western maritime
border disputed by North Korea.  The sea border was demarcated by the United Nations after
the 1950-1953 civil war and never accepted by the North. The
area is rich in fishing, attracting boats from both Koreas and
China during the crabbing season in May and June.  Naval Skirmishes  North and South Korea engaged in deadly naval skirmishes in
1999 and 2002 close to the island. The area was also where the
South Korean warship Cheonan sank in March, killing 46 sailors.
An international panel blamed a torpedo from a North Korean
mini-submarine for the incident, a finding denied by Kim Jong
Il’s regime and never accepted by China, his closest ally.  North Korea started firing artillery after the South Korean
navy conducted its monthly live-fire exercises near the border.
North Korea said it contacted the South at 8 a.m. on Nov. 23 to
demand maneuvers be scrapped.  “Should the South Korean puppet group dare intrude into
our territorial waters even 0.001 mm, our revolutionary armed
forces will unhesitatingly continue taking merciless military
counter-actions against it,” North Korea said in a statement
carried by the official Korean Central News Agency after the
shelling.  Under fire from the North, South Korean Marines took 10
minutes to pinpoint their target before counter-attacking,
Lieutenant-General Joo Jong Hwa told reporters on a tour of the
island yesterday. There has been no information on possible
North Korean casualties.  Artillery Exchange  “North Korea argues that we fired at them first, but this
is the direction that we fired,” at earlier, Joo said, pointing
southwest, away from the peninsula.  Lieutenant Kim Jung Soo said his company had been
conducting firing drills until just before the North Korean
barrage commenced. Two members of his team wore helmets that had
been scorched by the shelling.  The North’s artillery attack set 22 houses ablaze and
burned at least 3,300 square meters of mountainous area, South
Korea’s  Ministry  of Public Administration and Security said on
its website. At least 740 people were evacuated from the island,
according to the ministry and Coast Guard.  Washing Dishes  Yu Kyung Soon, 53, said she was washing dishes in the
elementary school cafeteria on the island when the windows
suddenly shattered. Together with her female co-workers, she
crawled on the floor seeking a place to hide.  When we emerged from the building “it was a sea of fire,
with dark smoke everywhere,” Yu said in an interview at Incheon
port yesterday. “I thought ‘this is war. This is the day that I
will die.’”  The school’s 90 students were immediately ushered to a bomb
shelter, she said.  “The kids were loud and excited, but none of them seemed
to be really scared,” Yu said. “It was just minutes after we
were joking how the North Koreans would never attack us first
and target the capital instead."  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
Sookyung Seo in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  