-- Novartis, Teva May Get Billion-Dollar Boost From New EU Rules
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2010-11-26T14:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/novartis-teva-may-get-billion-dollar-boost-from-new-eu-rules.html
Europe’s drug  regulator  set out
guidelines for copying some of the most expensive biotechnology
medicines, giving companies such as  Novartis AG  and  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd . access to a $36.4 billion market.  The European Medicines Agency’s draft regulation, posted
today on the agency’s website, aims to clarify how drugmakers
can copy and sell so-called monoclonal antibodies after they
lose patent protection. The document is open to public comments
until May 31, the London-based agency said.  Three important monoclonal antibody treatments are slated
to lose patent protection by 2015:  Roche Holding AG’s  Herceptin
for cancer,  Biogen Idec Inc . and Elan Corp.’s multiple
sclerosis drug Tysabri and Remicade for rheumatoid arthritis,
sold by Johnson & Johnson and  Merck  & Co. Together, the
medicines had sales of more than $10 billion last year.  “Looking out five to ten years, I see this as a multi-
billion-dollar opportunity,” said  Jeff George , who heads
Novartis’s generic-drug unit, Sandoz. Novartis is working on
eight to 10 copies of biological drugs, he said.  Antibodies are part of the immune system, recognizing and
fighting infection and other foreign substances in the human
body. Monoclonal antibodies are produced to closely resemble
human ones.  New Biosimilars  Monoclonal antibody copies would be a new type of
biosimilar, a copy of a medicine designed to mimic substances
found in the body such as hormones. Conventional generic drugs
are copies of treatments for high blood pressure or pain, and
often don’t resemble biological compounds. Biosimilars have been
sold in Europe since 2005. Companies use genetically engineered
cells to make biosimilars, and conventional generics are
manufactured by chemical reactions in large vats.  “Monoclonal antibodies are currently still perceived by
many to be a bigger challenge for biosimilar development” than
drugs like generic epoetin, an anemia treatment, according to
 Elmar Kraus , an analyst at DZ Bank in Frankfurt.  The guidelines released today establish the kinds of tests
and studies needed to show the copy is similar to the branded
drug. Companies will have to submit their products to human
trials, though they will usually be less extensive than those
needed for the approval of a branded antibody. The agency may
accept trials that forgo the use of a control group, and compare
the generic with the original. The regulator also may accept
data gathered to support the application of a treatment in one
illness to support approval for other uses.  Antibody Market  The market for the antibodies was valued at $36.4 billion
in 2009 and is forecast to increase to $62.7 billion in 2015,
according to Datamonitor Plc, a London-based health information
firm.  No generic monoclonal antibodies have been approved either
in Europe or in the U.S. Copies of antibodies will reach those
markets between 2014 and 2016, according to  Aaron Gal , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  “There is a limited number of companies going into this
business, because it’s not like a normal generic,” according to
the European Medicines Agency’s Executive Director  Thomas Loenngren , who spoke in a Nov. 3 interview.  Teva, based in Petah Tikva, Israel, is developing a copy of
Roche’s Rituxan, the second-biggest-selling cancer drug. Teva in
May began recruiting patients with rheumatoid arthritis for a
clinical trial comparing its biosimilar copy, TL011, with
Rituxan, sold outside the U.S. as MabThera, according to the
U.S. National Institutes of Health  website . Teva in September
expanded the tests to include patients with non-Hodgkin’s
lymphoma.  Rituxan has patent protection in the U.S. until 2018 and in
the rest of the world through 2013,  Nina Schwab , a Roche
spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.  Novartis’s Focus  Novartis is focused on monoclonal antibodies, George said.
He declined to provide details on any projects, citing
competitive reasons.  “It is safe to assume we are focused on the most
significant opportunities in that space,” George said.  Five products account for 75 percent of monoclonal antibody
sales: Roche’s Avastin, Herceptin, Remicade, Rituxan and  Abbott
Laboratories ’ arthritis drug Humira. Each of the so-called
“Big Five” had at least $4 billion in sales annually.  There are about 30 branded monoclonal antibodies approved
in Europe, and this regulation will likely affect 10 to 15
originator companies, Loenngren said in the interview.  Generics of monoclonal antibodies may not be as quick to
gain ground as copies of more traditional, small molecule
medicines, such as  Merck & Co. ’s Cozaar and Hyzaar, two
blood pressure medicines. A small molecule generic typically
erodes about half to the branded drug’s sales volume within the
first year, while monoclonal antibody drugs are expected to lose
less than 10 percent in that time, according to Datamonitor.  Generic Competition  Merck lost exclusive rights this year to both of the drugs,
which had combined 2009 sales of $3.6 billion. Sales of the two
drugs declined to $423 million, from $861 million in the third
quarter of last year.  The European regulator hasn’t received any applications for
antibody drugs so far, according to Loenngren. The EMA has had
“contacts, scientific advice and discussions” with companies,
he said.  The guidelines, when they are completed, will not be a
strict rulebook, according to Ameet Malik, who heads the
biopharmaceutical unit at Sandoz.  “The exact specification is going to vary by company and
by molecule,” Malik said. “Companies may take different
approaches.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net ;
 Naomi Kresge  in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  