-- Obama Administration Asks for Funds to Boost Uganda's Fight Against Rebels
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2010-11-25T08:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/obama-administration-asks-fpr-funds-to-boost-uganda-s-fight-against-rebels.html
The Obama administration is asking
for more money to fight Ugandan rebels in a strategy document
sent to Congress yesterday.  Since December 2008, the U.S. has spent more than $23
million in logistical and intelligence support for Ugandan army
operations against the Lord’s Resistance Army, along with
hundreds of millions of dollars in humanitarian and development
aid for areas where the LRA has operated, the 33-page document
said.  “Without additional funding, eliminating the LRA threat
will remain elusive,” said the strategy document, which was e-
mailed to Bloomberg by Michael Mershon, a spokesman for U.S.
Representative  Jim McGovern , a Massachusetts Democrat. McGovern
co-sponsored legislation, enacted earlier this year, that
ordered the Uganda strategic review.  The LRA, led by  Joseph Kony , began its insurgency in the
1980s after Ugandan President  Yoweri Museveni  purged the army of
members of the Acholi community, whose interests the LRA says it
is defending. The Ugandan army’s recent offensive against the
group has dispersed the rebels into remote parts of Sudan, the
Central African Republic and the Democratic Republic of Congo.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said the country needed to
bring “political, economic, military, and intelligence support
to bear in addressing the threat posed by the LRA” in a letter
to the  House Committee on Foreign Affairs , sent along with
yesterday’s strategy document.  ‘Removal’ of Leader  The document called for regional and international
cooperation in the “apprehension or removal” of Kony, along
with the promotion of defections from the LRA, increased
protection of civilians and humanitarian relief to affected
communities.  A group of six human rights groups asked Obama to implement
the strategy quickly in a joint statement e-mailed late
yesterday.  “President Obama has done an admirable job formulating a
strategy,” Paul Ronan, director of advocacy at the Washington
D.C.-based Resolve group, said in the statement. “The challenge
now is to turn this piece of paper into improvements on the
ground.”  The rebels have killed more than 2,000 people and forced
more than 400,000 to flee throughout central Africa since
December 2008, according to the United Nations’ Office for the
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.  Kony faces  International Criminal Court  charges of murder,
mutilation, rape and the abduction of thousands of children for
use as soldiers. He is thought to be along the border of the
Central African Republic and Sudan’s south Darfur region,
according to the UN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 