-- Hong Kong Debt Rating Raised by Fitch on Economic Growth, Fiscal Strength
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-11-25T08:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/hong-kong-debt-rating-raised-by-fitch-on-economic-growth-fiscal-strength.html
Fitch Ratings raised Hong Kong’s
debt rating to its second-highest ranking, citing the city’s
fiscal strength and ability to weather external shocks with
reserves.  Hong Kong’s long-term international debt rating was lifted
to AA+ from AA, with a stable outlook, Fitch said in a statement
today. The long-term local debt rating was kept at AA+ level.  The strong growth in Hong Kong’s economy and the
government’s “prudent fiscal management” were reasons for the
upgrade, the ratings company said. Moody’s Investors Service on
Nov. 11 upgraded Hong Kong’s government bond ratings to the
second-highest ranking, citing the city’s economic links to
China, whose ratings were raised on the same day.  “Hong Kong has withstood the global financial crisis with
its strong external financial position, solid public finances,
well-regulated and capitalized banking system,”  Vincent Ho , a
Hong Kong-based associate director at Fitch, said in an
interview today.  Fiscal Reserves  Hong Kong has fiscal reserves equivalent to 31 percent of
its gross domestic demand and “virtually zero” public fiscal
debt, Fitch said. The company estimated the city’s foreign
exchange reserves will rise to $300 billion by end of 2012, the
release said. The reserves were $267 billion at the end of
October.  The International Monetary Fund said Nov. 18 that Hong Kong
is running a risk of an economic downturn due to rising asset
prices and urged the city’s government to take more measures to
curb the housing market.  One day later, Hong Kong announced additional taxes for
homes resold within two years and increased down-payments for
some mortgages, in a move to curb property speculation and risk
of asset bubble.  The city’s economy expanded a more-than-estimated 6.8
percent in the third quarter, underpinning by recovered exports
and domestic consumption. Hong Kong’s stock benchmark rose 5.4
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  