-- Toronto-Dominion Will Address Dividend Issue in First Quarter, Clark Says
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2010-11-25T20:26:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/toronto-dominion-will-address-dividend-issue-in-first-quarter-clark-says.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank  may raise its
dividend after the fiscal first quarter ends in January, Chief
Executive Officer  Edmund Clark  said.  “Whether we raise it or not, we will address the issue in
the first quarter of next year,” Clark told reporters today
after addressing the Canadian Club of Montreal. “If our
sustainable earnings tell us that we should increase dividends,
we will. If they tell us not to, we won’t.”  Michael Goldberg  of Desjardins Securities said Toronto-
Dominion may raise the dividend when it announces fourth-quarter
results Dec. 2, ending a two-year drought on higher payouts
among the country’s six largest banks.  Canada’s second-largest bank is expected to increase its
dividend 4.9 percent to 64 cents a share in the first quarter,
according to  Bloomberg Dividend Forecasts .  Clark also said that Canadian banks could expand the
automobile leasing business by offering loans through
dealerships rather than in bank branches.  “From the consumer’s point of view, they’d like to be able
to do it in all the different channels,” said Clark, 63. “If
that’s not politically possible, clearly where there is an
alignment of dealers, manufacturers and banks would be to make
it available to the dealer community. That might be a
compromise.”  Health-Care Costs  Canada must address “structural issues” such as its
productivity rate and rising health-care costs to gain an
advantage over other countries, Clark said in his speech.  “I believe Canada is uniquely positioned to achieve a
permanent competitive advantage relative to other countries if
we do, in fact, focus on tackling the longer-term issues,” he
said.  Clark said the issues could be overlooked as the country
remains focused on immediate challenges amid the economic
recovery. Lower-income Canadians already face higher effective
marginal tax rates than higher-income Canadians, he said.  Clark said the federal government’s forecasts for a
balanced budget are “about right.”  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has said erasing the deficit,
which the government expects to total C$165.2 billion ($163.4
billion) over the next five years, is a priority and he plans to
return to a balanced budget in 2015.  -- With assistance from  Doug Alexander  in Toronto. Editor:  David Scanlan   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@Bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; or
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 