-- Otsuka Holdings Sets Pricing Range for Biggest Health-Care IPO Since 2006
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2010-11-25T09:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/otsuka-holdings-sets-pricing-range-for-biggest-health-care-ipo-since-2006.html
Otsuka Holdings Inc. , Japan’s
largest privately owned drugmaker, set a price range of 2,000
yen to 2,400 yen in what would be the world’s biggest health-
care initial public offering since at least 2006.  Otsuka would raise as much as 226.8 billion yen ($2.7
billion), according to the pricing given in a statement today.
The company, which said Nov. 12 it plans to sell 94.5 million
shares including over-allotment, is estimated to have a market
value of 1.3 trillion yen based on its outstanding stock after
the IPO.  The discoverer of the Abilify mental-illness treatment sold
by  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  in the U.S. is Japan’s fifth-largest
drugmaker, after  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. ,  Astellas Pharma Inc. ,
 Daiichi Sankyo Co.  and Eisai Co. Tokyo-based Otsuka, which
derives two-thirds of sales from pharmaceuticals, also makes
Pocari Sweat drinks and Soyjoy nutrition bars.  “Otsuka has room for growth such as through nutritional
product sales in Asia,” Takanori Miyajima, a fund manager at
Tokai Tokyo Financial Holdings Inc., said by telephone. “Otsuka
will probably rise in the short term as index-linked funds buy
the stock.”  Miyajima said he expects Otsuka to be added to Japanese
indexes such as the Topix, given the size of its market value.  Morgan Stanley ,  UBS AG  and  Nomura Holdings Inc.  are
managing the share sale.  Final Price  The IPO price is expected to be announced Dec. 6, with
listing on the Tokyo Stock Exchange scheduled for Dec. 15,
Otsuka said this month.  Global sales of Abilify  rose  31 percent to $4.67 billion
yen last year, according to IMS Health Inc., a market research
firm in Norwalk, Connecticut. Otsuka gets royalties from
Bristol-Myers linked to the sales.  Net income at Otsuka climbed 43 percent to 67.4 billion yen
in the year ended March. Sales increased 13 percent to 1.08
trillion yen, of which 45 percent came from overseas.  Otsuka also owns the  Ridge Vineyard  in California and a
 ceramic art museum  in Japan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kanoko Matsuyama  in Tokyo at  at
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
 Satoshi Kawano  in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net . 