-- PBOC Researcher Calls on U.S. to Sell Gold Reserves, People's Daily Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-25T03:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/pboc-researcher-calls-on-u-s-to-sell-gold-reserves-people-s-daily-says.html
The U.S. should cut its government
spending and sell some gold reserves to balance its budget and
fund its recovery, the  People’s Daily  overseas edition reported,
citing Xia Bin, an adviser to the People’s Bank of China.  The U.S. has to resolve its “twin deficits” in the
government budget and the current account, Xia was quoted as
saying. Three ways that may help the U.S. achieve that target
include reducing military expenses, selling part of its gold
reserves and relaxing some export limits on technology, he said.  “The U.S. has more than 8,000 tons of gold reserves; why
can’t it sell some of it since the country wants to raise funds
for economic recovery but doesn’t want to add more burden to the
fiscal deficit,” Xia told the newspaper. He didn’t mention
whether China would be willing to purchase any gold from the U.S.  China ranks as the world’s largest foreign  holder  of U.S.
Treasuries, with $883.5 billion as of Sept. 30, according to the
U.S. Treasury Department. China should raise its gold holdings
and its 1,054 tons of reserves are inadequate compared with the
8,133 tons held by the U.S. and 3,408 tons by Germany, Meng
Qingfa, a researcher at the China Chamber of International
Commerce said on Oct. 27.  The U.S. won’t be able to get to the bottom of the problem
if the government keeps relying on printing money, Xia said.  “The financial market in the U.S. is not short of
liquidity, and the money can’t get into the real economy,” he
said. Expanding money supply may not be the answer in the U.S.
as the high unemployment there is a structural, instead of a
liquidity, issue, Xia said.  The Federal Reserve said Nov. 3 it will buy an additional
$600 billion of Treasuries through June. Policy makers, setting
a pace of about $75 billion of purchases a month, “will adjust
the program as needed,” the Fed’s Open Market Committee said in
a statement in Washington.  -- Feiwen Rong . Editors:  Richard Dobson ,  James Poole   To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  