-- Asian Currencies Gain as China Central Bank Calls for Monetary Tightening
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-11-25T09:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/peso-leads-asia-currency-declines-on-gdp-data-yuan-ringgit-strengthen.html
Asian currencies rose for a second
straight day as the yuan gained on speculation China will raise
borrowing costs and a rebound in consumer confidence in South
Korea boosted sentiment.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index hovered near its
highest level this week after Deputy Governor Hu Xiaolian said
yesterday the People’s Bank of China will use quantitative and
price tools to manage liquidity. A South Korean central bank
poll conducted before North Korea lobbed shells at a South
Korean island on Nov. 23 showed consumer confidence rebounded
from a 16-month low.  “We are waiting for another interest-rate increase
alongside a rise in reserve-requirement ratios by the end of
this year” in China, said  Gerrard Katz , head of foreign-
exchange trading at Standard Chartered Plc in Hong Kong. “In
that environment, we should see some yuan appreciation.”  The won gained 0.4 percent to 1,137.65 as of the 3 p.m.
close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Malaysia’s ringgit rose 0.3 percent to 3.1300 and Singapore’s
dollar climbed 0.4 percent to S$1.3071.  South Korea’s currency snapped a two-day decline as the
benchmark  Kospi  index of shares gained. The Bank of Korea said
that the consumer sentiment index rose to 110 this month from
108 in October. The won is now little changed from its closing
level on Nov. 23, when North Korea mounted an artillery attack
on its southern neighbor.  ‘Shock Faded’  “The stock market is stable,” said  Sam Hong , a currency
dealer at Shinhan Bank in Seoul. The “shock” over the incident
with the North has faded, he said.  The yuan rose for the first time in a week, climbing 0.1
percent to 6.6495. The PBOC’s Hu said in a statement China will
control the pace of bank lending for the remainder of this year
as it will be difficult to stay within the government’s 7.5
trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) target for new loans in 2010. The
benchmark money-market rate climbed 15 basis points to 2.48
percent, the highest level since Oct. 8.  “The expectation of an interest-rate hike is pushing money
markets up,” said Chris Leung, a Hong Kong-based senior
economist at DBS Bank Ltd. Interest rates could climb a quarter
of a percentage point by the end of the year, Leung said.  The ringgit snapped a two-day decline after the U.S.
reported yesterday the fewest jobless claims since 2008. The
world’s biggest economy accounted for about 10 percent of
Malaysia’s exports this year through September, official data
showed.  Philippine Data  “This is important because the U.S. remains an important
driver of Asia’s export-led economies,” said Yeah Kim Leng, the
Kuala Lumpur-based chief economist at RAM Holdings Bhd.,
Malaysia’s biggest ratings company.  The Philippine peso approached a two-month low of 44.285
per dollar after gross domestic product unexpectedly contracted
0.5 percent in the third quarter from three months earlier. The
economy expanded 1.4 percent in the quarter ended June, and
economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast 0.9 percent growth
for the third quarter. The peso fell 0.3 percent to 44.100 per
dollar.  “There’s some selling of the peso because of the weaker-
than-expected GDP data,” said  Radhika Rao , a regional economist
at Forecast Pte. in Singapore.  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah rose 0.1 percent to 8,968 and
Taiwan’s dollar was unchanged at NT$30.80 versus the greenback.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan@bloomberg.net . 