-- Petronas Chemicals Shares Climb in Malaysia After Country's Biggest IPO
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2010-11-26T09:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/petronas-chemicals-bid-higher-in-gray-market-before-malaysia-market-debut.html
Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd. , the
petrochemicals unit of Malaysia’s state oil company, rose in its
Kuala Lumpur trading debut following the country’s biggest
initial public offering.  The stock gained 2.1 percent to 5.31 ringgit at the 5 p.m.
close in Kuala Lumpur from its institutional offer price of 5.20
ringgit, after climbing as high as 5.72 ringgit. The  FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index  dropped 0.3 percent. The stock was the most
active on the stock exchange with 637 million shares traded.  Petronas Chemicals raised 12.8 billion ringgit ($4.1
billion) in the Southeast Asian nation’s largest initial public
offering after pricing shares at the top of its projected range.
The IPO is part of Prime Minister  Najib Razak’s  plan to attract
more overseas investment by selling state-owned assets.  “There were a lot of funds who earlier bid for it and
didn’t get what they wanted, so that will probably drive market
demand as people re-adjust their portfolio for index
positioning,” said  Pankaj Kumar , who oversees $560 million as
chief investment officer of Kurnia Insurans Malaysia Bhd. near
Kuala Lumpur. “You can’t afford to exclude the stock from your
books.”  Petronas Chemicals, part of  Petroliam Nasional Bhd. , will
replace gaming company Berjaya Sports Toto Bhd. in the FTSE
Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index on Nov. 29, according to a Nov. 22
statement by FTSE Group and Bursa Malaysia Bhd. State-owned
Petroliam Nasional, or Petronas, manages the country’s oil and
gas reserves.  Earnings Outlook  Petronas Chemicals’s net income rose 61 percent from a year
earlier to 814 million ringgit in the four months ended July 31
as revenue gained, according to its listing prospectus.  “For the coming year, we believe we are in the upcycle of
the petrochemical prices,” Petronas Chemicals Chairman Wan
Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today. “We
are very bullish about the outlook.”  BTIG Hong Kong Ltd. received bids for Petronas Chemicals
stock in the so-called gray market at 5.40 ringgit each
yesterday, said  Christian Kielland , a managing director at the
brokerage. The gray market is an over-the-counter platform for
the unofficial buying and selling of securities between
institutions before their listing on a stock exchange.  Demand exceeded supply for Petronas Chemicals stock in the
IPO, with the institutional offering attracting orders for about
92.6 billion ringgit worth of shares, the company said Nov. 12.  Record Offer  The IPO led 19.6 billion ringgit of initial share sales in
Malaysia this year, beating the previous all-time high of 12
billion ringgit in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The number of offerings doubled to 28 from 14, as
government stock sales and a stronger currency drew investors.  The Petronas Chemicals transaction eclipsed Malaysia’s
previous record IPO, a $3.3 billion sale last year by Kuala
Lumpur-based Maxis Bhd., the country’s biggest mobile-phone
operator.  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.,  Deutsche Bank AG  and Morgan
Stanley managed the IPO, while Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG were
co-bookrunners for the portion of the sale to institutional
investors, according to the company’s IPO prospectus.  Petronas Chemicals was formed through the combination of
more than 20 companies. It offered 2.48 billion shares, or a 31
percent stake, the  prospectus  showed. Petronas will get 72
percent of the proceeds, while the chemicals unit plans to use
the remainder to build facilities and fund acquisitions.  “With 97 percent of Petronas Chemicals’ revenue derived
from Asia, we believe it’s a good proxy to the dynamic Asian
Tigers’ economic stamina,”  Chong Lee Len , an analyst at Affin
Investment Bank Bhd., wrote in a Nov. 24 report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Darren Boey  in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 