-- Philippine Economic Growth Slowed Last Quarter as Asia's Expansion Cooled
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2010-11-25T05:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/philippine-economy-grew-less-than-estimated-6-5-last-quarter-vs-year-ago.html
Philippine  economic growth  slowed
from a three-year high last quarter as agriculture and
government spending declined, adding to signs Asia’s rebound is
easing. Stocks and the peso fell.  Gross domestic product  increased 6.5 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a revised 8.2 percent gain in the three
months through June, the National Statistical Coordination Board
said in Manila today. That’s slower than the 7.3 percent median
forecast of 16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News and is the
weakest pace this year.  Asia’s growth is moderating after the region led the world
out of last year’s slump, with Malaysia and Thailand’s economies
expanding the least in three quarters from July to September.
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, which has refrained from raising
borrowing costs this year to support the economy, can keep
interest rates steady “for some time,” Governor  Amando Tetangco  said today.  “It looks like the policy environment in the Philippines
will remain growth friendly,” said  Prakash Sakpal , a Singapore-
based economist at ING Groep NV. “There are worries about a
global slowdown and the government is not loosening its purse.
There is little chance of a rate hike soon.”  The Philippine  benchmark stock index  dropped for a fourth
day and the peso fell to near a two-month low today. Universal
Robina Corp. fell to the lowest in more than two months, leading
a decline among consumer-related stocks in the Philippines after
today’s data showed that consumer spending grew at the weakest
pace in a year.  Remittance Risk  As faltering recoveries in the U.S. and Europe threaten
demand for Asian goods, President  Benigno Aquino ’s pledge to
create jobs and cut poverty may also be hampered by a 4.5
percent gain in the peso against the dollar this year that’s
undermining the value of remittances.  Funds  sent home by the
more than 8 million Filipinos living in countries including the
U.S. and Saudi Arabia account for about a 10th of the economy
and help support demand for  Ayala Land Inc.  homes and  Bank of
the Philippine Islands  loans.  “The strength of the peso is sapping the spending appetite
of the families of overseas Filipinos,”  Emilio Neri , an
economist at Bank of the Philippine Islands in Manila, said
before the report. “Government spending is also slacking as the
new administration wants to signal fiscal discipline.”  Peso Threat  The Philippine peso rose to the strongest level in more
than two years earlier this month, reaching 42.47 a dollar on
Nov. 4. The central bank has eased rules on foreign-exchange
outflows and capped dollar supply in the market by allowing
currency swaps to mature as it joined regional counterparts in
seeking to slow excessive currency gains.  A stronger peso cuts the purchasing power of remittance-
dependent Filipino families and may crimp the record gains in
Philippine exports. The country’s  overseas sales  increased 46.1
percent in September from a year earlier to an unprecedented
$5.31 billion, the biggest jump on record based on Bloomberg
data going back to January 1981.  Aquino, who took office in June, is seeking investments for
more than 700 billion pesos ($16 billion) of infrastructure
projects from roads to bridges to boost the economy by as much
as 8 percent annually from 2011. The government plans to narrow
the  budget deficit  to 290 billion pesos next year from a record
325 billion pesos estimated for 2010.  Fragile World  “The Philippine government will continue with the
formulation and implementation of needed polices and reforms
that would keep the economy afloat amidst the fragile world
economy,” Economic Planning Secretary  Cayetano Paderanga  said
today. “We expect growth to moderate in the second half of 2010
but we remain optimistic that we will exceed the 5 to 6 percent
target” this year, he said.  Thailand and Malaysia’s economic expansion slowed last
quarter as exports eased. Sovereign credit woes in Europe have
reemerged with Ireland becoming the second euro country to seek
a rescue and the U.S. Federal Reserve renewing a plan to buy
Treasuries to boost growth.  Thai gross domestic product rose 6.7 percent in the third
quarter, after climbing 9.2 percent in the previous three months.
Malaysia expanded 5.3 percent, slowing from an 8.9 percent
growth rate in April to June.  Easing inflation has allowed Bangko Sentral to refrain from
raising borrowing costs this year even as China, Malaysia,
Thailand, India and South Korea increased rates. Philippine
 inflation  slowed to an 11-month low in October, with consumer
prices rising 2.8 percent from a year earlier. The central bank
last week cut its inflation forecasts for 2010, 2011 and 2012.  “At this point in time, we see the stance of monetary
policy to be appropriate and, barring any major change in the
inflation outlook, we can stay or maintain interest rates where
they are,” Tetangco said after the GDP report. “The inflation
forecast remains favorable so we can maintain interest rates for
some time unless there is a significant change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karl Lester M. Yap  in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
 Cecilia Yap  in Manila at   cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  