-- Picasso Storms Hong Kong as Asian Buyers Seek Western Art Icons
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2010-11-25T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/picasso-storms-hong-kong-as-asian-buyers-seek-western-art-icons.html
Pablo Picasso  said art should never
be exposed to those who aren’t sufficiently prepared for it.
Three sales in Hong Kong this week will show whether Asia is
sufficiently prepared for Picasso.  Picasso exhibitions at  Edouard Malingue Gallery  and  Ben
Brown Fine Arts  and a private exhibition sale by  Sotheby’s  of
impressionist and modern paintings featuring seven works by the
Spanish 20th-century artist will test the strength of demand
among Asian collectors who have paid record prices this year for
traditional Chinese art and antiques.  Rising wealth in China helped turn Hong Kong into the Asian
Mecca for Chinese scroll paintings and ceramics, jewelry,
watches and fine wines, making the city the third-largest
auction market behind New York and London. While Hong Kong has
also seen a proliferation of contemporary Asian art galleries,
collectors of expensive Western art have typically bought from
overseas.  “There are now lots of Asian buyers going to New York and
London,” said Patti Wong, chairman of  Sotheby’s  Asia Pacific by
telephone from London. “We said ‘Wow! These Asians are coming
in strongly, how can we get more of them?’”  In June at ArtHK 2010, Hong Kong’s biggest art fair, New
York dealer  Larry Gagosian  sold to Asian buyers a Picasso for
several million dollars and a work by  Damien Hirst , the gallery
said, declining to identify the buyers or prices.  “I think we are seeing a sea change in interest and an
appetite for Western art,” said Nick Simunovic, Gagosian’s
managing director in Hong Kong, where the New York-based gallery
will open a branch in January.  ‘Third Wave’  Simunovic called the burgeoning appetite for Western works
the “third wave” by Chinese collectors who typically start
with classical scroll paintings and ceramics and then move onto
contemporary art.  Another factor driving demand is the narrowing price
differential between Asian and Western art, said  Ben Brown ,
whose Hong Kong gallery is selling 13 Picassos priced between $3
million and $16 million at a show running Nov. 24 to Jan. 28.  “The price of a lot of Asian art makes certain artists in
the west who have great museum pedigrees look cheap,” said
Brown in Hong Kong.  Last month, Zhang Xiaogang’s 1992 painting “Chapter of a
New Century -- Birth of the People’s Republic of China II,”
sold to a private Shanghai museum at Sotheby’s in Hong Kong for
an artist record of HK$52.2 million ($6.7 million).  ‘Conspicuous Consumption’  “There is an element of conspicuous consumption and art is
a new way for Chinese collectors to express wealth and
sophistication,” said Magnus Renfrew, director of Hong
international art fair ART HK. “We are starting to see that
factor come into Asian demand for blue-chip modern and
contemporary Western art.”  For brand-conscious collectors, few artists carry more
cachet than Picasso -- one reason why Parisian dealer  Edouard
Malingue  decided to launch his eponymous gallery in Hong with a
show of 17 paintings by the artist and a sketchbook with 23
drawings.  “I wanted to access China,” said Malingue, whose
exhibition runs through Dec. 4. “This is a way of putting the
gallery on the map.”  Picasso broke the auction record for a work of art in May
when a 1932 lilac-hued oil painting of his young mistress,
Marie-Therese Walter, entitled “Nude, Green Leaves and Bust,”
sold for a $106.5 million in New York at Christie’s. Many of the
artist’s later works appeal to collectors in Asia, said  Ken Yeh ,
 Christie’s International Plc  Asia chairman.  ‘Size Matters’  “There is something about these works that definitely
appeals to the Chinese,” said Yeh. “Many of the late Picassos
are very colorful and big in scale. In Asia, they generally
prefer larger paintings. Size does matter.”  Melissa Chiu, director of the New York-based  Asia Society
Museum , said the move toward Western art reflects a development
in the lifestyles of many of China’s newly wealthy.  “Chinese collectors at this level have a great interest in
European culture,” Chiu said. “They want to acquire those
kinds of cultural values. You need only look at the high-end
housing complexes in China -- they’re in a European style. They
even have European names.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frederik Balfour  in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 