-- Mumbai Marks Second Anniversary of Attacks With Parades, Candle-Lit Vigils
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2010-11-26T05:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/prayers-candle-lit-vigils-as-mumbai-marks-attack-anniversary.html
India today began prayer meetings,
candle-lit vigils and parades to mark the second anniversary of
a three-day assault on Mumbai by Pakistani terrorists, as ties
between the nuclear-armed neighbors remain strained.  The chief minister of the state of  Maharashtra ,  Prithviraj Chavan , led a commemoration for the police officers and
civilians killed during the commando-style attack on India’s
financial capital. Anti-terrorist police paraded along the
city’s  Marine  Drive along with the weapons and armored vehicles
bought to improve security after the siege.  Mumbai will “pay homage to the martyrs and to reassure the
people that they are safe and secure,” Joint Police
Commissioner Rajnish Seth said by phone yesterday. A multi-faith
ceremony will be held at the Gateway of India on the city’s
seafront, said A.S. Gharge, deputy secretary of the state’s home
ministry.  The raid by 10 terrorists armed with assault rifles,
grenades and explosives in Mumbai on Nov. 26-29, 2008 targeted
two luxury hotels, a railway terminal, a Jewish center and a
restaurant popular with tourists. At the end of 72 hours of
carnage, 166 people had been killed. Adding a new dimension to
militancy in India, the perpetrators sought out the
international business community that had helped propel the
country’s economic growth.  The attack, which India blamed on the Pakistan-based
militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba, forced security improvements and
halted a five-year peace process between the South Asian rivals.  Ensure Justice  While the 2008 attacks in Mumbai were preceded by bombings
in major cities including New Delhi, Jaipur and Ahmedabad -- all
claimed by a domestic militant group called Indian Mujahideen --
there has been only a single major terrorist attack since.  India in July accused Pakistan’s military spy agency of
running the raid on Mumbai, citing Indian investigators’
interrogation of Pakistani-American David Coleman Headley, who
pleaded guilty to plotting the attack in a U.S. federal court.  It yesterday sent rival Pakistan a “strongly worded”
diplomatic note urging it to fulfill its “obligation and
commitment” to fully bring to justice the perpetrators of
attacks on Mumbai, Press Trust of India reported, citing
government sources it didn’t name.  Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  pledged in a statement
today to “redouble efforts” to see justice for the victims of
Mumbai. Foreign Minister S.M. Krishna urged Pakistan to
“dismantle the  terror machine ” operating from its soil.  Closed Trial  Pakistan says it has begun a closed-door trial of some
members of Lashkar, a group formed to oppose Indian rule in the
divided Himalayan region of Kashmir. India is demanding the
dismantling of all militant outfits that target it from bases in
Pakistan.  While this year there has been little public outpouring of
anger in the buildup to today’s anniversary, for the people of
Mumbai and across India the wounds have been slow to heal.  “You can well imagine what a person feels after losing
someone dear this way,” said Sunita Saraswat, whose husband
Rajeev Saraswat, an official with Hindustan Petroleum Corp. Ltd.,
died as gunmen attacked the  Taj Mahal Palace & Tower  hotel.
Security measures taken by the government in the wake of the
raid have been “too little,” she said.  The luxury hotel, favored by royalty, rock stars and
tycoons, reopened its century-old heritage rooms in August. It
added x-ray machines and metal detectors to screen guests, while
barriers prevent vehicles from pulling up to the entrance.
Thirty-one people died in the hotel’s rooms and restaurants.  Police ‘Ill-Trained’  The only gunman caught alive,  Mohammed Ajmal Kasab , has
been sentenced to death by a city court and has appealed.  Following the Mumbai attacks India created a federal agency
to combat terrorism, strengthened coastal patrols, bolstered
intelligence agencies and recruited more security personnel.  Still, initiatives have been “incremental,” said  Ajai Sahni , executive director of New Delhi’s Institute for Conflict
Management, and much more needs to be done.  “India’s police personnel remain poorly equipped, under-
manned and ill-trained to deal with the expansive challenge of
terrorism,” C.  Raja Mohan , a defense analyst, wrote in the
Indian Express  newspaper .  Mumbai is home to both of India’s main stock exchanges as
well as being the primary trading center for commodities,
bullion, diamond, bonds and currencies.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  visited a memorial for the
victims of the 2008 attacks earlier this month, his first stop
in a three-day visit to India. Along with his wife, Michelle,
Obama met survivors of the attacks and stayed at the Taj hotel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
 Malavika Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  