-- Expert Firm's `Gated Network' May Have Included Insiders, Prosecutors Say
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-11-25T01:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/primary-global-gated-network-may-have-included-insiders-fbi-agent-says.html
Primary Global Research LLC, the
consulting firm whose employee was arrested in the U.S.
crackdown on insider trading, uses a “gated network” of
experts that can help clients make investment decisions.  Some of the experts employed by the Mountain View,
California-based firm were insiders at publicly traded companies
who shared nonpublic information about forthcoming results with
its hedge-fund clients, according to sworn testimony by FBI
agent B.J. Kang unsealed yesterday by U.S. prosecutors in New
York.  “Certain hedge funds ask firm consultants about their
respective companies’ revenue numbers and how their companies
will report their earnings numbers prior to their earnings
report,” Kang testified. “Some firm consultants will talk
about their companies’ revenue numbers and some do not.”  Authorities arrested Don Ching Trang Chu, who was Primary
Global’s Taiwan liaison, on charges that he arranged to provide
inside information to hedge-fund clients. The arrest was part of
a crackdown led by  Preet Bharara , the U.S. Attorney in
Manhattan, whose latest push is centered on whether expert-
network companies arranged for their money-manager clients to
receive nonpublic information.  Primary Global has not been charged with wrongdoing.  Chu was with the firm for about seven years,  Dan Charnas , a
spokesman for the firm, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Based upon recent events, PGR has severed its 2
relationship with Mr. Chu,” Charnas said.  Chu’s sources in Asia were typically employees of
technology companies, according to the government documents
released yesterday.  Travel Plans  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for the FBI’s New York Office,
said Chu was arrested at his home in Franklin Township, N.J. Chu
was scheduled to leave the country for Taiwan on Nov. 28,
Margolin said.  Kang testified that Chu indicated in 2009 that an employee
of  Broadcom Corp.  gave the chipmaker’s revenue figures to the
founder of a New York hedge fund before the earnings results
were released.  Primary Global says on its website that “experts are
explicitly instructed to decline to comment in subjects that
represent information that is confidential or proprietary to the
organization they are affiliated with.”  The firm matches customers with experts in eight industry
groups, including technology, Internet and health care. Its
“exclusive client base and gated network maximize the value of
incremental information, giving institutional investors and
analysts a strategic advantage when making investment
decisions,” the firm says on its  website .  Largest Networks  “If you know it’s stolen information and you sell it, you
are liable like the thief himself,”  Tamar Frankel , a corporate
governance professor at Boston University, said in a telephone
interview.  Primary Global is one of the 10 largest expert networks in
the U.S.,  Michael Mayhew , chairman of Integrity Research
Associates in New York, said in an interview. There are about 40
expert networks, the biggest being Gerson Lehrman Group Inc. in
New York, Mayhew said.  Consultants employed by Primary Global can earn “hundreds
of dollars per hour” and clients pay “tens of thousands of
dollars annually for access to the firm’s consultant network and
services,” Kang testified.  Primary Global also receives payments in “soft dollars,”
as clients direct trades through the firm’s trading platform,
according to the documents released by U.S. prosecutors. The
firm is a broker-dealer with a trading desk, it says on its
website.  Firm’s Founding  Founded in 2004, Primary Research is led by Chief Executive
Officer  Unni Narayanan , a former Intel Corp. executive. Before
that, Narayanan worked at International Business Machines Corp.,
according to his profile on professional networking site
LinkedIn.com.  Chu, 56, established a relationship with  Richard Choo-Beng Lee , a former partner at San Jose, California-based hedge fund
Spherix Capital LLC, prosecutors say in the unsealed documents.
Lee was employed as an analyst by SAC Capital Advisors LLC, the
Stamford, Connecticut, hedge fund run by  Steven A. Cohen , from
1999 to 2004.  Lee’s fund paid Chu’s firm, identified by prosecutors only
as based in Mountain View, California, for tips, according to
the government’s 18-page complaint. Chu passed along inside
information regarding technology company Atheros Communications
Inc. and one of his contacts at  Sierra Wireless Inc.  tipped off
a hedge-fund client with revenue and other key figures,
according to the complaint.  Last year, Lee pleaded guilty to insider trading at Spherix
Capital. He is cooperating with investigators in their probe of
Galleon Group LLC, the New York-based hedge fund that shuttered
after its billionaire founder,  Raj Rajaratnam , was charged with
insider trading. Rajaratnam has denied wrongdoing and is
scheduled for trial next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  