-- Prysmian CFO Facchini Confident of Draka Deal; Offer Set for Early 2011
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2010-11-25T11:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/prysmian-cfo-facchini-confident-of-draka-deal-offer-set-for-early-2011.html
Prysmian SpA  Chief Financial Officer
 Pier Francesco Facchini  is confident his company will succeed in
its bid for  Draka Holding NV  following a higher offer from
China’s  Tianjin Xinmao S&T Investment Corp.   “We remain confident our bid is very likely to be
successful,” Facchini said in a phone interview today. “The
current gap between our offer and the Chinese bid could well be
recovered” because of the “strong synergies” between Prysmian
and Draka. Milan-based Prysmian is preparing documents for a bid
in early 2011, the CFO said.  Tianjin Xinmao S&T said Nov. 23 that its bid is
“uncertain” because the company will need approval from the
Chinese government. It’s offering 20.50 euros per common share
for Amsterdam-based Draka, 19 percent more than Prysmian’s half-
cash, half-shares bid.  “We’re talking with Draka management on a daily basis,”
Facchini said. The Dutch company “hasn’t changed its attitude”
following the Xinmao offer, he said. Facchini reiterated that
Prysmian has no plan to raise its bid.  Facchini also said Prysmian has not had contact with
investment company Flint Beheer, which owns 48.5 percent of
Draka, since Xinmao made its counteroffer. Flint Beheer said
Nov. 22 that it would tender its shares to the Prysmian bid.  Prysmian, Nexans SA, the world’s largest cable maker, and
Highland Heights, Kentucky-based General Cable Corp. are seeking
to increase economies of scale and raw-material purchasing power
to restore margins hurt by a construction slump in Europe and
the U.S. Nexans yesterday formally abandoned its 15 euro-a-share
offer for Draka.  Global Leader  “Prysmian is still in a sound position because it is
clearly more serious, has financing in place and can extract
synergies that a deal with Xinmao cannot,” SNS Securities
analyst  Martijn Den Drijver  wrote in a note to clients Nov. 23.
He cut his rating on Draka to “sell” from “buy.”  Draka said Nov. 23 it agreed to discuss a combination with
Tianjin Xinmao S&T that the Chinese company, a unit of Xinmao
Group, said would make Draka a global leader in optical wire.  Draka fell as much as 2.5 percent in Amsterdam and traded
at 19.24 euros, down 0.6 percent, at 12:44 p.m. Prysmian gained
as much as 1.9 percent in Milan, and was up 1.5 percent to 12.42
euros. Nexans fell 0.7 percent to 52.25 euros in Paris, where
it’s based.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tommaso Ebhardt  in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
kwong11@bloomberg. 