-- Putin Says EU Gas-Market Rules May Lead to Energy Crisis, Seeks Swap Deals
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2010-11-25T08:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/putin-says-eu-gas-market-rules-may-lead-to-energy-crisis-seeks-swap-deals.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  reiterated his concern that new European Union rules to
liberalize gas markets may lead to an energy crisis.  “Ill-considered liberalization of financial markets
largely provoked the financial crisis,” Putin wrote in an
article published in Sueddeutsche Zeitung before a trip to
Germany that begins today. “It would be undesirable if lapses
in gas-industry regulation led to a new crisis, this time in
energy.” The  text  was posted in Russian on Putin’s website.  Putin said in Sofia on Nov. 13 that the EU’s plan to create
independent gas-pipeline management that secures access for
third parties would result in price increases for consumers and
 hinder development  of Europe’s energy infrastructure. The rules
would affect OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly, which
meets about a quarter of European gas needs.  The European Parliament in April approved legislation
forcing EU nations to choose one of three options to ease access
to the power and gas grids. The choices are to force the
companies to sell or spin off the transmission business; require
them to hand over management of the grid to an independent
operator; or oblige them to make the unit more independent
through internal actions.  Russia is proposing “a new energy agreement” for Europe,
which would help build balanced and equal relationships between
energy producing, transit and consumer countries, Putin said.  Russia and the EU should cooperate on asset swaps as well
as the oil and gas trade and work together along the entire
value chain from exploration and production to delivery to the
end-user, Putin wrote in the article.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  