-- Putin's Hometown Challenges Moscow on First Bond Since 2005: Russia Credit
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 2010-11-25T08:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/putin-s-hometown-challenges-moscow-on-first-bond-since-2005-russia-credit.html
St. Petersburg  is planning to sell
debt for the first time since 2005 and is seeking yields that
match those of Moscow, the capital city that sets the benchmark
for municipal borrowing costs in Russia.  The country’s second-largest city aims to sell 3 billion
rubles ($96 million) of five-year bonds today and as much as 25
billion rubles next year to help fund spending,  Eduard Batanov ,
the head of St. Petersburg’s finance committee, said in a
telephone interview. The yield on Moscow’s bonds due in June
2015 rose 28 basis points this month to 7.5 percent today.  “Historically we’ve had to offer higher yields, but during
the years of our absence from the market our credit quality
hasn’t worsened, our debt burden has been steady,” Batanov said
on Nov. 23. “Let’s see how these factors add up.”  St. Petersburg, the hometown of President  Dmitry Medvedev 
and Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , is coming to the market as
the Russian government and Belarus are more reticent to offer
ruble bonds following a decline in the currency. The ruble is
the second-worst performer among the 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg so far this half, falling about
0.1 percent against the dollar compared with a gain of 4.8
percent for the Brazilian real.  The Finance Ministry has scaled back some sales of domestic
bonds and OAO Gazprombank told clients this week it expected the
government may delay its first-ever offering of  ruble -
denominated debt abroad. Belarus, which had planned to be the
first foreign country to sell bonds denominated in the Russian
currency, postponed the sale of two-year securities
“indefinitely” yesterday.  Premium Size  Ruble weakness and falling markets in Europe as Ireland
seeks a bailout will hurt all local-currency borrowers in
Russia, including St. Petersburg, which may have to offer a
larger premium to Moscow, said  Konstantin Kostrub , the head of
fixed-income trading at ING Groep NV in Moscow.  St. Petersburg is ranked Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service,
one level below the Russian state, and BBB by Fitch Ratings and
Standard & Poor’s, the same level as the sovereign. Moscow is at
the same level as Russia at all three ratings companies.  “Its credit quality is high enough, but it may need to
offer a premium of as much as 150 basis points for a successful
placement,” Kostrub said by e-mail yesterday.  Analysts at Bank of Moscow and TKB Capital, an investment
bank, say they expect St. Petersburg will have to pay little or
no premium over Moscow bonds because the smaller city has
stronger finances.  Moscow last sold debt on Oct. 28, when it issued 8.6
billion rubles of municipal bonds due September 2013 at a yield
of 6.65 percent. The yield was at 6.86 percent today.  ‘Scarcity of Supply’  “The new St. Petersburg deal should run well, since
currently there is a scarcity of supply from munis, and the
issuer is a strong name that also has backing from the fact that
the incumbent Russian government comes from this region,” said
 Sergey Dergachev , who helps manage the equivalent of $8.5
billion of debt, including Russian corporate bonds, at Union
Investments Privatfonds in Frankfurt.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian government
debt rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 2 basis points today to
218, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ indexes. The
yield spread compares with 140 basis points for debt of
similarly-rated Mexico and 176 points for Brazil, which is rated
two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 27 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps gained 3 basis points to
141.5 on Nov. 24, according to data provider CMA. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Russia credit-default swaps are 15 basis points more
expensive than contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels
lower at Ba2 by Moody’s. Turkey was 40 above Russia on April 20.  The yield on federal ruble bonds, or OFZs, due 2016 was
unchanged at 7.43 percent. Government dollar bonds due 2020
gained, lowering the yield by two basis points to 4.829 percent.  The ruble fell 0.1 percent to 31.2950 per dollar today.
Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to
expectations of currency movements as they allow foreign
investors and companies to fix the exchange rate at a specific
level in the future, show the ruble at rate at 31.5575 per
dollar in three months.  Switching Capital  The city of 4.6 million people was Russia’s imperial
capital after being founded by Tsar Peter the Great in the 18th
century. The Bolsheviks moved the capital back to Moscow in 1918
after seizing power the previous year.  St. Petersburg has less than 50 million rubles of
outstanding debt after buying back a previous batch of bonds
over the past five years, Bank of Moscow said in a Nov. 22
report. Moscow’s debt totaled 278.8 billion rubles on Oct. 1,
also including loans and foreign-currency denominated bonds,
according to the  state debt committee  of Moscow city government.  Moscow, Russia’s biggest municipal borrower, accounted for
about 87 percent of bonds issued by regional governments this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The St. Petersburg bonds may become “new blue chips” on
the market, according to Bank of Moscow.  Ekaterina Gorbunova , a
fixed-income analyst there, expects the yield to be between 7.5
percent and 7.8 percent, according to a Nov. 22 report.  St. Petersburg has “stronger budget parameters” and isn’t
planning a substantial increase to its debt burden, the Moscow-
based TKB Capital said on Nov. 22, predicting a yield of 7.25
percent on the new notes.  “From the point of view of credit quality, we don’t see a
difference between St. Petersburg and Moscow and rate them at
the same level,”  Boris Kopeykin , an analyst at S&P in Moscow,
said in a phone interview on Nov. 23. “What sets St. Petersburg
apart from Moscow is its near absence of debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 