-- Putin Promotes Trade Zone From ‘Lisbon to Vladivostok’
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-11-25T17:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/putin-promotes-trade-zone-from-lisbon-to-vladivostok-update1-.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
proposed closer economic links between Russia and the European
Union that would eventually lead to establishing a free-trade
zone stretching “from Lisbon to Vladivostok.”  The response to the financial crisis should be a “joint
continental market,” particularly in heavy industry and energy,
Putin wrote in a commentary published today in German newspaper
 Sueddeutsche Zeitung . Putin is on a visit to Germany for talks
with Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and business leaders tomorrow.  “In the future a free-trade zone could come into being and
we could even consider more advanced economic integration,”
Putin wrote. “Indeed, a joint continental market would then be
created whose capacities would be in the trillions of euros.”  The Russian prime minister said broad-based economic
cooperation would take place only in stages and over a long
period of time, though he pitched ties with Russia as a remedy
to weaknesses in the EU’s heavy industry and high-technology
goods production, a result, he said, of de-industrialization.  EU and Russian leaders should think “20 to 30, even 50
years” ahead, Putin said. Initial steps would be clearing the
way for Russia’s membership in the World Trade Organization and
establishing visa-free travel between the EU and Russia.  Energy Crisis  Merkel, speaking at an event today in Berlin, said while
she supports Putin’s proposal in principle, she had to “pour
some cold water” on the idea. Russia’s trade agreements with
Belarus and Kazakhstan “don’t exactly make the free-trade zone
with the EU easier” because, unlike Russia, those countries are
further away from WTO membership, Merkel said. She also took aim
at what she called Russia’s protectionism.  “I often hear news out of Russia that import customs are
relatively surprisingly raised -- and not as often lowered,”
Merkel said.  Putin said EU states and Russia must consider “strategic
alliances” in areas such as shipping, aerospace and auto
production as well as the pharmaceutical and energy sectors as a
way to promote growth in heavy industry,  Putin criticized efforts by the EU to open up competition
in the electricity and natural-gas markets by requiring member
states to improve access to transmission networks, such as
forcing companies to sell or spin off grids. He said the process
could stave off new infrastructure investment and cause a
deregulatory spiral similar to that of the financial crisis.  Natural Gas Industry  “Nobody would want a failure of regulation in the natural-
gas industry to cause a new crisis, this time in the energy
sector,” Putin wrote. A better model would be closer
cooperation on all levels of the energy production chain,
promoted by cross-holding arrangements in the industry, he said.  The regulations would affect OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas
export monopoly, which meets about a quarter of European gas
needs. Putin may discuss the possibility of E.ON AG selling its
3.5 percent stake in Gazprom at a meeting with Merkel tomorrow.  Putin, whose German became fluent when he was a KGB officer
in the eastern city of Dresden before the Berlin Wall collapsed,
will also meeting with German executives from companies such as
E.ON, Siemens AG and Deutsche Bank AG in Berlin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  