-- PZU Fund Doubts New World Resources is Able to Pay Enough for Bogdanka
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2010-11-25T11:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/pzu-fund-doubts-nwr-is-able-to-pay-enough-for-bogdanka.html
PZU PTE SA, one of Polish coalminer
 Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka SA’s shareholders , won’t sell its stake
to  New World Resources NV  at the current bid price and
“doubts” whether NWR is able to pay a high enough price.  “The difference between the price offered in the tender
and our valuation of Bogdanka is so big that I doubt whether NWR
is able to pay enough for us to exit the investment,” Marek
Sojka, the deputy head of PZU PTE, said in a phone interview
today. PZU, which holds 9.8 percent in Bogdanka, is its second-
largest shareholder. PZU yesterday met Zdenek Bakala, the Czech
billionaire who is an indirect shareholder in NWR.  On Oct. 5, NWR, the Czech Republic’s largest coking coal
producer, said it was bidding for at least 75 percent of
Bogdanka, which is named after the eastern Poland town it’s
based in, at 100.75 zloty a share. The bid, worth as much as
3.43 billion zloty ($1.2 billion), expires on Nov. 29.  Bogdanka’s  biggest shareholders , including PZU, Aviva PTE
SA, and Amplico PTE SA, all said the price is below their
respective valuations. Also, the Polish company’s management
opposed the bid.  Joe Cook, NWR’s spokesman, declined to comment in an e-
mailed response to questions today.  NWR’s Chief Executive Officer Mike Salamon said on Nov. 11
that the price offered for Bogdanka is “fair and full” and
that the company more likely to lower the threshold for
acceptances from 75 percent, rather than raise its bid.  ‘Premium’  The bid price represents a 13 percent premium to Bogdanka’s
 closing  price immediately before the bid was announced. It’s
also more than the price of 70.5 zloty per share that the Polish
pension funds paid for a 47 percent stake from the State
Treasury in March.  Bogdanka , which rose to as high as 115 zloty in Warsaw on
Oct. 25, fell for a third day today and at 100.9 zloty at 11:57
a.m. was heading for the lowest close since Oct. 5.  Aviva, which with almost 15 percent is the largest Bogdanka
shareholder, maintained today its view that the Polish company’s
value is “significantly higher” than NWR’s offer, portfolio
manager Pawel Klimkowski said by phone, confirming his company
representatives also held a meeting with Bakala yesterday.  “The price is one thing and we also believe that Bogdanka
should become a company leading the consolidation of the
industry, not a takeover target,” Klimkowski said.  Both Klimkowski and Sojka declined to comment on whether
Bakala said that NWR would increase the price in the tender.  Miroslaw Taras, Bogdanka’s CEO, said earlier this month
that the company’s value is “far above” NWR’s bid, as well as
BRE Bank SA’s estimate of 125.9 zloty, the highest of nine
recommendations tracked by Bloomberg. He added he would expect a
30 percent to 50 percent control premium from NWR.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw at 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  