-- Qantas CEO's A380 Flight Caps `Textbook' Handling of Crisis
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-11-26T07:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/qantas-ceo-joyce-s-a380-trip-caps-textbook-handling-of-engine-explosion.html
Qantas Airways Ltd.  Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Joyce  will be onboard tomorrow as the carrier flies
its first Airbus SAS A380 service since a mid-air engine
explosion. That commitment helped persuade  Mark Ritson  to push
ahead with a similar trip.  “I couldn’t be more confident,” said Ritson, a University
of Melbourne professor, who is flying to London with his wife on
Nov. 29. “I think it will be a safer plane than before.”  Joyce’s flight follows the five  press briefings  and at
least six radio and television interviews he has given since
grounding his six A380s hours after the Nov. 4 engine blowup.
The swift action and public appearances have helped Sydney-based
Qantas retain travelers’ confidence, said Robert Heath, who has
consulted on crisis management for more than 20 years.  “It is a textbook example of how to handle the
situation,” said Heath, an  associate professor  at the
University of South Australia in Adelaide. “When you have a
crisis, you have to give a measured response and make sure you
are prepared like he was.”  Joyce, 44, who became CEO about two years ago, announced
the withdrawal of the superjumbos in a televised press
conference after an A380 made an emergency landing in Singapore.
The  Rolls-Royce Group Plc -powered aircraft touched down with the
rear of an engine cover blown away and damage to a wing and its
fuselage. No one onboard was hurt.  New A380s  The carrier, which has never had a fatal jet crash, will
resume flights with only one of its  450-seat planes . Another
will follow next week. Two new A380s will also enter service
within the next month. The airline is working with Rolls-Royce
on modifying as many as 16 powerplants following inspections
prompted by the engine blow-up.  Qantas “will not fly any individual aircraft unless we are
completely sure that it is safe to do so,” Joyce said in an e-
mail sent to members of the carrier’s roughly 7-million strong
frequent flyer program. Joyce, who has also talked about the
planes on Youtube, wasn’t available for an interview, spokesman
 Simon Rushton  said.  The carrier has used substitute planes, including Boeing
Co. 747s, to maintain services usually flown by the A380s, which
represent 17 percent of its international capacity.  Disruption Costs  The disruptions may have cost Qantas A$60 million ($58
million) in lost sales and costs such as chartering planes, most
of which it will likely be able to recoup from Rolls-Royce, UBS
AG analyst  Simon Mitchell  said in a Nov. 23 note to clients.
Joyce said the same day it was “too early” to say whether the
airline will seek compensation from the engine-maker or how
much. Rolls-Royce officials in London didn’t respond to calls
seeking comment.  Mitchell affirmed a buy rating on Qantas, a  recommendation 
made by 13 of the 14 analysts tracked by Bloomberg. The
carrier’s average analyst rating trails only Rio Tinto Group
among Australia’s 100 biggest companies by market value.  “Getting his backside on the plane is exactly the right
thing” for Joyce to do, said Ritson, a marketing professor who
works for clients including LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA
and  Adidas AG . “From the start Joyce was on top of it.”  Toyoda’s Absence  Joyce’s high profile contrasts with Toyota Motor Corp.
President  Akio Toyoda ’s handling of U.S. recalls that began last
year. Toyoda didn’t hold a press conference after the company
announced defects with 3.8 million vehicles in September, 2009
and then waited more than a week to give a briefing after a
separate recall covering 2.3 million cars in January. U.S. sales
chief  Jim Lentz  and Executive Vice President  Shinichi Sasaki 
instead spoke for the company.  Toyoda’s absence hurt Toyota because the company wasn’t
seen to be addressing the issues, said Ritson. The  Toyota
brand ’s share of U.S. auto sales fell to 13 percent in the first
10 months of this year from 15 percent a year earlier.  “Toyoda really should have been out in front from the
beginning,” said  Tadashi Usui , a Tokyo-based analyst at Moody’s
Japan K.K. “In any type of crisis the unfolding can change
dramatically depending on how it’s dealt with at the outset.”  Joyce’s appearances haven’t prevented Qantas from falling 7
percent since Nov. 3 in Sydney trading, compared with a 2.6
percent decline for the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index. The stock
closed unchanged today at A$2.67.  Engine Fire  A Boeing 747 operated by Qantas also returned to Singapore
a day after the A380 blowout because of an engine fire. At least
two other Qantas planes have turned back since then as well 
because of faults.  “I’m pretty impressed with how they have handled it but
that only goes so far,” said  Ronald Bishop , senior lecturer in
aviation at Central Queensland University, who was a U.S. Air
Force engineer for more than 20 years. Any more faults and
“everybody in Australia and around the world would be looking
at Qantas and asking themselves questions,” he said.  Joyce, who grew up in the Dublin suburb of Tallaght, worked
for an Irish computer company before joining national carrier
 Aer Lingus Group Plc . He stayed there for eight years before
moving to now-defunct Australian carrier Ansett in 1996.  He joined Qantas in 2001 and two years later founded budget
unit Jetstar to help fend off competition from Virgin Blue
Holdings Ltd. The low-cost arm, which charges for onboard snacks
and inflight entertainment, is now more  profitable  than Qantas’
mainline operations.  “He gets people to raise their game and he makes people
feel special,” said  Conor McCarthy , who worked with Joyce at
Aer Lingus before becoming CEO of Dublin Aerospace and a board
member at  AirAsia Bhd.  “I think customers will have a lot of
confidence that he was taking the right decisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  