-- Qatar Airways CEO Criticizes Boeing, Bombardier, Talks Up Revamped Airbus
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-11-25T17:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/qatar-says-bombardier-issues-unresolved-considering-airbus-alternative.html
Qatar Airways Ltd. Chief Executive
Officer  Akbar Al-Baker  attacked Boeing Co. over the latest delay
to the 787 Dreamliner and said  Bombardier Inc.  needs to quickly
resolve issues with its CSeries jet, while suggesting that his
company may be an early buyer for an upgraded Airbus SAS A320.  The Dreamliner program has “very clearly failed,” Al-Baker
said today after Chicago-based Boeing announced that it would
revise the 787’s schedule following a fire on a test-version of
the jet that’s already almost three years behind plan.  “I was really taken aback by the 787 program,” the CEO said
at a press briefing in Paris. “We never expected that a program
could be delayed so much by a company like Boeing that prides
itself on bringing very high-quality product.”  Qatar Air’s talks about an order for the  Bombardier CSeries 
model, which has contracts from only three customers, are stalled
on “commercially sensitive issues,” Al-Baker said, adding that
he expects Airbus to announce a re-engined version of its single-
aisle  A320 , dubbed the Neo, sometime this year.  “We may be one of the launch customers for the Neo,” the
executive said. While Qatar might still be interested in the
CSeries for “certain destinations,” an order for the Airbus
plane “would limit that requirement,” he said.  Montreal-based Bombardier has blamed the sluggish global
economy for its CSeries order drought.  United Technologies
Corp.’s  Pratt & Whitney unit, which is providing the plane’s
engines, said Sept. 17 it aimed to iron out a “misunderstanding”
that prompted Qatar to delay an order for as many as 30 planes.  “We have issues with the CSeries and these issues still
have not been resolved,” Al-Baker said. “If they do not roll up
their sleeves very fast the Neo will eclipse them.”  ‘Garbage’  At Boeing, Al-Baker said that the Dreamliner glitches,
which have included parts shortages, redesign work, supplier
problems and challenges from new materials, result in part from
overly stringent cost controls. Qatar has ordered 30 787s.  “When you put a company in the hands of accountants you
will always get garbage out, because you are always doing sums
on how to save money,” the CEO said. A Boeing spokesman in
London declined to comment.  Qatar Air is interested in buying more Airbus A380s,
according to Al-Baker, but might delay its existing order for
five superjumbos if the Toulouse-based company fails to deliver
required enhancements in weight, fuel efficiency and range.  “I’m confident Airbus will make the improvements needed,”
he said, without elaborating on the required gains. “If they
don’t then we will ask for another delay.”  Emirates CEO  Tim Clark  said yesterday he expects Airbus to
pare about 2 metric tons a batch of A380s that the Dubai-based
carrier is due to receive from September next year. Qatar’s
first plane isn’t scheduled for delivery until 2013.  Al-Baker said Airbus must be “vigilant” in avoiding delays
on its A350 program that would allow an upgraded Boeing 777 to
steal market share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  