-- RBA's Stevens Says Stronger Currency Contains Inflation, Rates Appropriate
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-11-26T02:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/rba-s-stevens-says-inflation-unlikely-to-fall-much-further.html
Australian central bank Governor
 Glenn Stevens  reinforced investors’ view that the nations’
benchmark interest rate is appropriate in the near term, as a
stronger local dollar helps contain inflation.  “Over the coming year, we think that inflation will be
pretty close to where it is now, consistent with the target”
of 2 percent to 3 percent, Stevens told the House of
Representatives Committee on Economics in Canberra today.
Regarding a rate move, he said that “there’s unlikely to be
anything from us imminently.”  The Australian dollar fell after his comments bolstered
expectations that the Reserve Bank of Australia will continue
monitoring figures on prices before raising interest rates
again. Less than two weeks before the RBA’s next policy
meeting, Stevens indicated that with unemployment hovering
around 5 percent, the pace of wage growth wasn’t
“alarming.”  “This is consistent with the idea that there will be no
near-term move and they will reassess in February and March
next year,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist at ICAP
Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “That said, the fact that RBA is
talking more about medium-term upside risks to inflation
should leave us in no doubt where rates are going.”  Rate Outlook  Carr said he is predicting two 25 basis point increases
in the overnight cash rate target in the first half of 2011.  Traders are betting there’s no chance of a quarter
percentage point increase in the central bank’s benchmark
rate to 5 percent on Dec. 7, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on interbank futures on the Sydney Futures
Exchange. Swaps traders are betting the RBA will raise
benchmark borrowing costs by 34 basis points within a year,
according to an index compiled by Credit Suisse Group AG.  Stevens, 52, said today that expectations on the outlook
for the cash rate weren’t “unreasonable.”  The biggest mining investment boom in a century is
stoking Australia’s economy as companies including BG Group
Plc increase hiring to meet demand from China.  Mining Projects  BG Group, based in Reading, U.K., said last month it
will begin work on a $15 billion liquefied natural gas
venture in Queensland, generating 5,000 construction jobs. BG,
 Chevron Corp. , Royal Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips are
among energy companies investing about A$200 billion in
proposed LNG projects in Australia.  Speaking on the global economic outlook, Stevens said
today he expects “periodic flare-ups of anxiety in Europe”
as the continent works its way through a debt crisis, while
the U.S.’s recovery will probably be “ok” and avoid another
recession. Asia is poised to lead the world as the “center
of gravity” shifts to the region, the governor said.  The RBA on Nov. 2 ended a five-month pause in raising
interest rates as it seeks to contain an expected gain in
consumer prices.  Wages  rose last quarter by the most in
almost two years as growth of salaries in private industry
outpaced government pay gains for the first time since the
height of the global financial crisis.  Inflation Outlook  “Stevens’ comments highlight that the risk remains on
the side of higher rather than lower inflation,” said
 Stephen Roberts , a senior economist at Nomura Australia Ltd.
in Sydney. “The hike, plus the additional moves by the banks
and the stronger Australian dollar, mean that the policy
setting is about right for the period ahead.”  Stevens boosted borrowing costs this month by a quarter
percentage point to 4.75 percent as mining investment, job
growth and overseas demand propel the economy. He has
increased the benchmark lending rate seven times since
October 2009.  That contrasts with the U.S. Federal Reserve’s policy of
a benchmark rate near zero since December 2008. The
divergence has made the local dollar the second-best
performer among 16 major currencies this year, with an 8.7
percent gain against the U.S. dollar.  Australia’s currency traded at 97.51 U.S. cents as of
1:09 p.m. in Sydney from 98.08 cents in New York yesterday
and 98.66 cents on Nov. 19.  Dollar’s Effects  Stevens said the Australian dollar’s rise was helping
contain inflation pressures and that the increase “usually
takes some time to flow through fully.”  Speaking about monetary policy, Stevens said today that
“overall, and also taking account of the exchange rate,
which has risen substantially this year, we judge this to be
the appropriate setting for the period ahead.”  The amount of spare capacity in the nation’s economy is
“pretty modest” and “the pace of overall wage growth in
the economy is gradually increasing,” the governor said.
Growth in labor costs “is no longer declining but rising,”
he said.  Employment in  Australia rose by  29,700 jobs in October
from September, a government report this month showed, almost
50 percent more than the median forecast for a 20,000
increase in a Bloomberg News survey.  “There’s a bit more scope for labor demand to rise than
you might think just by looking at the official unemployment
rate,” Stevens said. Inflation is near the midpoint of the
RBA’s inflation target range of 2 percent to 3 percent, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 