-- Reliance Boosts India Gasoline, Diesel Exports After Refinery Maintenance
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-11-26T08:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/reliance-to-boost-gasoline-diesel-exports-after-maintenance.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. , owner of
the world’s largest oil-refining complex, is boosting gasoline
and diesel exports after restarting units shut for maintenance.  The Mumbai-based company shipped about 195,000 metric tons
of gasoline in the first week of November from its operations in
Jamnagar, western India, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
from shipping newsletter EXIM India. That compares with about
250,000 tons in all of September. Reliance also exported about
443,000 tons of  diesel  as of Nov. 8, compared with about 1.7 
million tons in October and 1.2 million tons in September, the
data show.  Reliance , controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , faces
losses if it sells diesel in India because government
regulations mandate retailing the fuel below cost. The company’s
exports were crimped earlier this year by maintenance shutdowns
between May and October.  Reliance will “aggressively place their products outside
as much as they can,” said  Praveen Kumar , the Singapore-based
head of the South Asia oil and gas team at FACTS Global Energy.  State refiners are partly compensated for losses from
selling below cost by the government and oil producers including
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. and Oil India Ltd., while private
companies such as Reliance aren’t.  Reliance said Nov. 19 it restarted a crude-distillation
unit and coker at one of its two Jamnagar refineries on Nov. 17,
after shutting them in the last week of October. A 100,000
barrel-a-day vacuum gasoil unit, which produces fuels such as
gasoline and diesel, was offline for about three months from
early May to September, a person with knowledge of the plant
said Sept. 29.  Diesel Exports  Reliance exported 1.05 million tons of gasoline in July and
August combined, while 2.01 million tons of diesel were shipped
overseas in the same period, according Mumbai-based  EXIM , which
collects shipping data from port officials. Reliance spokesman
 Manoj Warrier  was unable to comment when reached by telephone
and the company didn’t respond to e-mailed questions.  The two plants at Jamnagar are capable of processing 1.2
million barrels a day of crude, making enough fuel to meet about
75 percent of the U.K.’s consumption.  At least seven cargoes of  gasoline  totaling 400,000 tons
were shipped to the Middle East by Reliance in October and
November, according to AIS Live vessel-tracking data.  During the same months, at least seven diesel shipments
headed to the Suez Canal, and two to Africa, the data show.  Reliance  shares  were 0.6 percent lower at 973.65 rupees at
1:01 p.m. in Mumbai, having initially risen as much as 1.1
percent.  Avoiding Pirates  The Gute Ann-Marie set sail from the Indian port of Sikka
in Jamnagar with a consignment of diesel in early October,
according to the EXIM data. The vessel has since sailed to
Mombasa, Kenya, ship-tracking data show. The vessel reached
Kenya by sailing around the south of Madagascar, avoiding Somali
pirates operating off the Horn of Africa.  The Meriom Iris set off from Sikka in late October, taking
a consignment of diesel to Durban in South Africa in mid-
November, the ship-tracking data show.  Reliance’s Jamnagar facility in India’s western state of
Gujarat is centered on two refineries, a 580,000 barrel-a-day
 plant  completed in December 2008 and an older 660,000 barrel-a-
day unit. The plants can process a combined 1.24 million barrels
of oil a day, or about 1.6 percent of global refining capacity.  Reliance’s imports of crude are also headed for an increase,
with the company importing about 1.7 million tons in the first
week of November, compared with nearly 3.7 million tons for all
of October, the EXIM data show.  Most of the crude imports during October and November were
from the Middle East, including Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Qatar, while some cargoes arrived from Latin
America, the data show.  Reliance plans to shut in January a vacuum gasoil unit at
its Jamnagar facility, two people with knowledge of the schedule
told Bloomberg Oct. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pratish Narayanan  in Mumbai 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell@bloomberg.net . 