-- Rio Police Deploy Tanks to Raid Crime Stronghold in Cleanup for World Cup
-- B y   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a
-- 2010-11-25T21:22:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/rio-police-deploy-tanks-to-raid-crime-stronghold-after-five-days-of-unrest.html
Rio de Janeiro police deployed  Navy
tanks  and armored cars to raid one of the city’s biggest crime
strongholds after five days of urban unrest left dozens of
scorched vehicles and at least 21 people dead.  One tank drove over a car blocking an entrance to the
city’s Vila Cruzeiro shanty town, or favela, while a truck was
on fire nearby, images broadcasted by Globo TV showed. Dozens of
men carrying weapons fled over a hill by foot and motorcycles
towards the neighboring Morro do Alemao favela as tanks and
policemen raided the area amid shootings. Cars and buses were
set on fire throughout the metropolitan area of Rio all day.  Police in Rio have taken back shanty towns from organized
crime control in the past two years as the former Brazilian
capital prepares to stage the 2014 soccer World Cup and the 2016
summer Olympics. The deployment of more than 1,000 police troops
in the last five days to crack down on organized crime in 27
favelas has triggered shootings and attacks on vehicles.  “Taking over that territory shows the strength of our
police,” Military Police spokesman Colonel Henrique Lima Castro
said in televised comments. “We have a very strong resolve to
dominate the area.”  Thirty vehicles were set on ablaze by organized crime in
the city’s metropolitan area today, almost doubling the toll to
at least 59 in the past five days, according to police reports.
The vehicles scorched today included 13 cars, 11 buses, two
trucks, two motorcycles and two vans, police said in an e-mail.  Weapon Seizures  Police  confirmed the use of Navy tanks today in an e-mail
statement, without disclosing the number of vehicles deployed.  Officers have arrested more than 150 people since Nov. 21
and seized handmade bombs, guns, war weapons, dynamite and
bottles of gasoline, police said.  Before last night, police reported 29 vehicles set on fire
by criminals and 21 people dead in connection with the
shootings.  Streets in the  Ipanema  and Copacabana beach-side areas were
blocked by police yesterday because of boxes suspected of
containing bombs and later proven not to hold any explosives.  The city’s two main rival criminal organizations, based in
the Rocinha and Morro do Alemao favelas, may unite to react to
growing police efforts to take over shanty towns, Rio de Janeiro
State Security Secretary Jose Beltrame said in televised
comments yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Caminada  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  