-- Rio Police Deploy Tanks to Raid Crime Stronghold After Five Days of Unrest
-- B y   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a
-- 2010-11-25T16:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/rio-police-deploy-tanks-to-raid-crime-stronghold-in-cleanup-for-world-cup.html
Rio de Janeiro police deployed  Navy
tanks  and armored cars to raid one of the city’s biggest crime
strongholds after five days of urban unrest left dozens of
scorched vehicles and at least 21 people dead.  One of the tanks drove over a car blocking an entrance to
the city’s northern Vila Cruzeiro shanty town, while a truck was
on fire nearby, images broadcasted by Globo TV showed. Military
Police confirmed the use of Navy tanks in an e-mail statement,
without disclosing the number of vehicles deployed.  Police in Rio have taken back shanty towns, or favelas,
from organized crime control in the past two years as the former
Brazilian capital prepares to stage the 2014 soccer World Cup
and the 2016 summer Olympics. The deployment of over 1,000
military police troops in the last five days to crack down on
organized crime in 27 favelas has triggered shootings and
attacks on cars and buses.  Officers have arrested over 150 people since Nov. 21 and
seized hand-made bombs, guns, war weapons, dynamite and bottles
of gasoline, according to reports on the Military Police’s
website.  Before last night, police reported 29 vehicles set on fire
by criminals and 21 people dead in connection with the
shootings. Globo TV said the toll has risen to 55 vehicles and
23 casualties. Police declined to confirm the number.  Streets in the  Ipanema  and Copacabana beach-side areas were
blocked by police yesterday because of boxes suspected of
containing bombs and later proven not to hold any explosives.  The city’s two main rival criminal organizations, based in
the Rocinha and Morro do Alemao favelas, may unite to react to
growing police efforts to take over shanty towns, Rio de Janeiro
State Security Secretary Jose Beltrame said in televised
comments yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Caminada  in Sao Paulo at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  