-- Federer, Murray Reach ATP Tennis Semifinals With Straight-Set Victories
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-26T00:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/roger-federer-reaches-atp-semifinals-with-straight-set-defeat-of-soderling.html
Andy Murray  and  Roger Federer 
qualified for the semifinals of tennis’s  ATP World Tour Finals 
after winning their last group matches in straight sets.  Murray overcame a nervous start to defeat Spain’s  David
Ferrer  6-2, 6-2 in Group B yesterday at the O2 arena in east
London. The fifth-ranked Scot last year fell one game short of
the semifinals of the season-ending championships last year.  Murray had been “a little bit” nervous before the match,
he said in a televised courtside interview. “I knew before I
went on I had to win one set. It was strange position to be
in.”  Earlier, Grand Slam record holder Federer defeated French
Open finalist  Robin Soderling  from Sweden 7-6 (7-5), 6-3. The
Swiss, who moved to the semifinals for the eighth time in nine
ATP Finals appearances, didn’t drop a set in all three group
matches. Murray had lost his previous group match to Federer.  “I’m happy I was able to come out today and play a good,
tough, solid match against a player who I thought was in good
shape,” Federer told a news conference.  In final group matches to be played in Group A today, top-
ranked  Rafael Nadal  of Spain only needs to take a set against
 Tomas Berdych  of the Czech Republic to qualify for the
semifinals, where he may play Murray.  Andy Roddick , the only
American man in the field, plays  Novak Djokovic  of Serbia in the
evening session.  Federer, the winner of a men’s record 16 majors, is trying
to tie  Ivan Lendl  and  Pete Sampras  as the only players to have
won the ATP Finals five times. His only loss in 16 meetings
against Soderling came at this year’s French Open, where he was
defeated in the quarterfinals. That ended his record run of 23
consecutive Grand Slam semifinals.  The tournament, won last year by Russia’s  Nikolay Davydenko , has a round-robin format, with the season’s eight
best players divided into two groups. Each faces the three
others in the group, with the top two in each section moving
into the knockout semifinals.  Federer Wins  Federer started well against the fourth-ranked Soderling,
breaking serve in the third game. The Swede broke back for 4-4
as Federer started his service game with a double fault and made
a couple of errors with his forehand. In the tiebreak, Federer
got minibreak for 3-2 as he dictated play with his forehand. The
second-ranked Swiss took the first set 7-6 (7-5) with a backhand
passing that Soderling had left at the net.  “He let it go, it was one of those floater shots,”
Federer said. “When the ball goes in, it’s just the most
horrible feeling.”  The Swiss was never in danger again as he broke Soderling’s
serve early in the second set. He won the match as the Swede
dumped a forehand into the net for his 25th unforced error.
Federer had 18 errors and 23 winners.  ‘Losing is never a solution to trying to win a
tournament,’’ said Federer, who only needed a set to move to the
last four. “That’s why I’m happy that all three matches were
straight sets, not wasted any energy. I’m playing real well. I’m
through to the semis. So it’s all real good right now.”  Nervous Start  Murray started nervously against Ferrer as he dropped the
first two games. Picking up the pace on his ground strokes and
attacking the Spaniard’s serve, Murray then won the next six
games and took the first set 6-2 with a forehand winner. Knowing
he had qualified for the last four for a second time in his
career, Murray screamed “Come on” as he ran back to his chair.  Just like in the first set, Murray quickly raced to a 5-2
lead in the second. He won the match with a forehand, his 21st
winner. Ferrer had 9 winners.  “It feels great,” Murray said, when asked what it meant
to make the semifinals in front of a sellout crowd of 17,500 in
the O2 arena.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  