-- Rousseff Gives Tombini `Autonomy' for Brazil Central Bank Inflation Battle
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2010-11-25T20:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/rousseff-gives-tombini-autonomy-for-brazil-central-bank-inflation-battle.html
Brazilian President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  pledged full “autonomy” for the country’s central
bank as she appointed  Alexandre Tombini  to head the institution
and bring the  fastest inflation  in 20 months back to target.  The 46-year-old Tombini may be assisted in that task by
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , who during a press conference
yesterday to announce his reappointment said he would cut
spending and avoid new expenditures. Tombini takes office Jan. 1
after serving as a board member since 2005. He replaces  Henrique Meirelles , 65, Brazil’s longest-lasting central bank chief.  “Rousseff’s choice of Tombini reinforces her desire to
have the Finance Ministry and central bank aligned,” said
 Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at CM Capital Markets, a Sao
Paulo-based stock and futures brokerage. “Inflation is
surprisingly high and will require more spending control.”  Traders are increasing bets Tombini may need to raise rates
at his first monetary policy meeting in January, Bloomberg
estimates based on interest-rate futures contracts show. Policy
makers boosted  borrowing costs  this year by 200 basis points, or
2 percentage points, to 10.75 percent from a record low.  “Dilma wants to reduce the noise between the fiscal and
monetary authorities, so this is good news,” said  Zeina Latif ,
a senior economist at RBS Securities Inc. in Sao Paulo.  Yields on Brazil’s longer-term rate futures tumbled
yesterday after Mantega said he will reduce fiscal spending,
easing pressure on the bank to raise borrowing costs.  Yields on interest rate future contracts maturing January
2011, the most traded on the Sao Paulo stock exchange, rose five
basis points to 10.702 percent today. The real rose 0.02 percent
to 1.7213 per dollar from 1.7216 yesterday.  Inflation Target  Consumer prices as measured by the benchmark IPCA-15 gauge
rose 5.47 percent in the year through mid-November, the national
statistics agency said this week. The central bank targets 4.5
percent inflation, plus or minus 2 percentage points.  Rousseff also announced yesterday that  Miriam Belchior  will
replace  Paulo Bernardo  as planning minister on Jan. 1. Belchior
currently oversees a $293 billion investment plan to improve the
country’s infrastructure.  Mantega, Belchior and Tombini will form Brazil’s monetary
council, responsible for setting the annual inflation target and
the long-term interest rate, used by the state development bank.  Meirelles said yesterday that “this is the right moment to
end the mission,” and that he will remain at the post until the
end of President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s administration on
Dec. 31. Tombini is an “excellent choice,” Meirelles said.  Tombini said yesterday that Rousseff assured him the
central bank will have the independence it needs to fight
inflation.  ‘Total’ Autonomy  “Dilma told me that in this regime there’s no half
autonomy, but total operational autonomy,” said Tombini, who
was part of the group that designed Brazil’s inflation-targeting
system.  Central bank policy makers are appointed and removed by the
country’s president and aren’t limited by set terms. Lula
appointed Meirelles to replace  Arminio Fraga  even before being
inaugurated on Jan. 1, 2003.  Lula granted Meirelles Cabinet-level status in 2003,
ensuring the bank chief has a direct channel of communication to
the president, a privilege that must be maintained, said former
central bank President  Carlos Langoni , director of the Getulio
Vargas Foundation in Rio de Janeiro.  Before joining the Brasilia-based central bank, Tombini,
who was born in Porto Alegre, in the southern state of Rio
Grande do Sul, was the senior adviser to Brazil’s executive
director at the International Monetary Fund.  Board Vote  Tombini, who has a doctorate in economics from the
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, will need to be
approved by the Senate. He is one of the eight people on the
central bank board who will vote to set the key rate at the Dec.
7-8 meeting. The individual votes aren’t made public.  “The fact that Rousseff is keeping Mantega is a good
indication for markets that there will be some continuity,
although policy may not be exactly the same,” said  Claudio Loser , a former Western Hemisphere director for the
International Monetary Fund, who now runs the Centennial Latin
America research company based in Washington.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Brazilian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries has fallen to 177 basis points from
1,446 basis points on Dec. 31, 2002, the day before Lula took
office, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index.  Latin America’s biggest economy will expand 7.6 percent
this year, the fastest pace in more than two decades, according
to the median forecast in a central bank survey of about 100
economists.  Outlook for Rates  Traders are wagering policy makers will be forced to resume
rate increases early next year and push the benchmark to as high
as 12.75 percent by the end of 2011, according to Bloomberg
estimates based on rate futures.  Some analysts pointed to Mantega’s past support for higher
spending as a possible source of tension with the new central
bank chief.  “Tombini is a symbol of responsible monetary management,”
said  Roberto Padovani , chief strategist at Banco WestLB do
Brasil SA. “At the same time, Mantega represents an
expansionary fiscal policy.”  Alongside Tombini and Belchior at a press conference
yesterday, Mantega told reporters that Rousseff will cut fiscal
spending, avoid new expenditures and reduce the amount of
capital the Treasury may transfer to the state development bank
next year. Rousseff wants Brazil to grow more than 5 percent in
the next four years, without pressuring inflation, Mantega said.  “It seems that we’ll have more of the same with this
economic team,”  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito
Santo Investment Bank, said in a telephone interview. “The
biggest challenge for Tombini will be convincing the finance
minister that public spending influences inflation dynamics.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Iuri Dantas  in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net 
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  