-- Rubber Futures Advance as U.S. Data Raise Demand Outlook, Supply Limited
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2010-11-25T07:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/rubber-futures-advance-as-u-s-data-raise-demand-outlook-supply-limited.html
Rubber increased as improvement in
U.S. employment and consumer sentiment boosted speculation that
demand will expand for the commodity used in tires, and as
supply is limited from Thailand, the largest exporter.  April-delivery rubber on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
gained as much as 2.6 percent to 368.7 yen per kilogram ($4,419
a metric ton) before settling at 362.6 yen. The price reached a
30-year high of 383 yen on Nov. 11.  Asian stocks  advanced after data showed U.S. jobless claims
dropped to the lowest level since 2008, bolstering optimism that
economic growth will accelerate. Rubber supply from Thailand and
other Asian producers remains tight after rain and flooding
disrupted plantation work, said  Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at
Tokyo-based broker Fujitomi Co. in Tokyo.  “The market drew support from good economic data from the
U.S.,” Saito said by phone today. “Fundamentals remain
positive as supply is curbed by weather problems.”  The  cash price  of natural rubber in Thailand gained 0.2
percent to 131.55 baht ($4.38) per kilogram today, boosted by
strong demand amid a supply shortage, according to  the Rubber
Research Institute of Thailand . The price reached a record
132.75 baht per kilogram on Nov. 23.  The U.S. Labor Department said jobless claims fell to
407,000 last week. The median projection of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News called for a drop to 435,000. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of November consumer
sentiment increased to 71.6, the highest level since June and
exceeding the median economist estimate of 69.5.  Shanghai Futures  May-delivery rubber in Shanghai lost 1.8 percent to 31,690
yuan ($4,765) a ton at 2:42 p.m. local time. The price retreated
from a record 38,920 yuan on Nov. 11 on concern that China, the
largest consumer, may take additional steps to curb inflation
and slow its economic growth, Saito said.  China’s central bank said it will strengthen liquidity
management and “normalize” monetary conditions after having
twice this month ordered banks to hold more in reserves to curb
inflation that’s at a two-year high.  The nation will use quantitative and price tools to manage
liquidity,  Hu Xiaolian , a deputy governor of the  People’s Bank
of China , said in a  statement  posted to the central bank’s
website yesterday. China will also control the pace of  bank
lending  for the remainder of this year as it will be difficult
to stay within the government’s 7.5 trillion yuan ($1.13
trillion) target for new loans in 2010, she said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government has raised interest rates,
increased the reserve requirement for banks and pledged to use
price controls if needed as part of efforts to rein in inflation
that reached 4.4 percent last month. Analysts at nine banks
surveyed by Bloomberg News last week predicted the PBOC will
boost borrowing costs a second time by the end of the year.  China’s recent moves to crack down on speculation in
commodities have worked, and prices of goods from cotton to
copper have all declined, the National Development and Reform
Commission said in a statement on its website today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  