-- Ruble Squeeze Sends Yields to Nine-Month High Over Dollar: Russia Credit
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-11-26T14:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/ruble-squeeze-sends-yields-to-nine-month-high-over-dollar-russia-credit.html
Russian companies are facing the
highest ruble borrowing costs in nine months compared with
dollar debt as the central bank drains cash from the banking
system.  The gap between yields on benchmark ruble debt due in 2012
from OAO Gazprom and its 2013 dollar bonds climbed to 285 basis
points, or 2.85 percentage points today, the widest since March
1, from 29 basis points in May, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Bank Rossii has reduced cash by selling at least $3.8
billion of foreign currency this month, matching the amount for
all of October, which was the most in almost two years, First
Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said in a Bloomberg News
interview in Moscow on Nov. 24.  While Bank Rossii is keeping  key interest rates  at a
record-low 7.75 percent, its efforts to arrest the biggest ruble
depreciation since September means local borrowing costs for
Gazprom, the country’s largest company, OAO Mobile TeleSystems
and  Russian Agricultural Bank  have hit four-month highs. Yields
on government two-year ruble debt, known as OFZs, climbed 10
basis points yesterday to 6.1 percent, the highest since June 9,
compared with two-year U.S. Treasuries at 0.54 percent.  “Reducing the amount of rubles out there means there is
less money to buy local debt, so prices have softened,”  Dmitry Dudkin , head of fixed-income research at UralSib Financial Corp.
in Moscow, said in a phone interview yesterday. Bank Rossii’s
interventions are “the equivalent of liquidating large amounts
of rubles, like they don’t exist anymore,” he said.  Capital Flight  Outflows are hurting the ruble and forcing the central bank
to step up foreign currency sales, Bank Rossii Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  told the Duma’s financial committee in Moscow
yesterday. The central bank more than doubled its estimate for
capital flight this year to $22 billion on Nov. 16. Outflows in
the year to the end of October total about $21 billion, Ignatiev
said this week.  Russia has managed the ruble since 2005 against a basket of
dollars and euros to limit swings that erode the competitiveness
of the nation’s exporters. The regulator allows the ruble to
trade within a so-called floating corridor against the basket,
shifting the range by 5 kopeks each time interventions top $650
million.  The ruble slid 0.7 percent to 31.4224 per dollar by the 5
p.m. close in Moscow, extending a 1.9 percent drop this month.
It fell 0.3 percent to 35.9798 versus the  basket , which is made
up of about 55 percent dollars and 45 percent euros. The
floating corridor ranged between 32.8 and 36.8 on Oct. 13, after
the band was widened to four rubles from three, Ulyukayev said
in the Nov. 24 interview.  MTS, Russian Agricultural  The yield on Moscow-based Gazprom’s two-year ruble bonds
hit 6.46 percent this week, the highest since July 1, while
dollar debt due 2013 yielded 3.46 percent yesterday, a two-week
low.  The average price of Russian ruble bonds traded on the
Micex exchange has declined 0.4 percent in November, bound for
the biggest monthly drop since May, according to the  Micex CBI
index .  The gap between yields on Moscow-based Mobile TeleSystems’
2018 ruble debt and dollar bonds maturing in 2020 was the widest
since Russia’s largest mobile phone provider issued the U.S.
notes in June. The ruble yield reached 7.83 percent on Nov. 22,
the highest since July 5.  Russian Agricultural Bank’s ruble bonds due February 2018
yielded 8.52 percent yesterday, the highest in eight months and
251 basis points more than the Moscow-based state-run lender’s
eight-year dollar debt, the widest gap since March.  Bond Sales  Companies are taking advantage of lower costs in dollars.
Gazprom is selling $1 billion of five-year bonds, a person with
knowledge of the sale said last week. VEB, Russia’s state
development bank, raised the same amount in 15-year notes on
Nov. 10. OAO Lukoil, the country’s biggest independent oil
company, issued $800 million of 10-year bonds on Oct. 29.  The government may delay its first ever issue of ruble-
denominated debt abroad until “weak” market conditions
subside, Moscow-based OAO Gazprombank told clients in an e-
mailed note Nov. 24. Belarus postponed its planned debut sale of
Russian ruble bonds “indefinitely,” according to a regulatory
filing lodged Nov. 24.  Ruble bonds are declining “as a result of negative
sentiment on global markets and some tightening of domestic
liquidity,” said  Elena Kolchina , head of fixed-income products
at Renaissance Asset Managers in Moscow, which manages $1.5
billion of assets. “To limit the negative effect of recent
dollar strengthening on global markets, the central bank had to
increase its interventions to support the ruble and this
affected local liquidity.”  ‘Attractive’ Yields  The amount of rubles in the market will probably be boosted
in the second half of December as the government spends
remaining budget funds before the end of 2010, according to
 Alexander Dotkin , a bond trader at Bank Zenit in Moscow.  “Bonds at these current levels are attractive ahead of the
usual liquidity injection at the end of the year,” Dotkin said
by e-mail yesterday.  Russian government dollar bonds slid today, with the yield
on notes due in 2020 up 5 basis points to 4.9 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian government
debt rather than U.S. Treasuries rose 9 basis points today to
229, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ indexes. The
difference compares with 142 for debt of Mexico, which has the
same Baa1 rating from Moody’s Investors Service, and 180 for
Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3.  Default Swaps  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 27 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose half a basis point to
155.5 yesterday, according to data provider CMA. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Russia credit-default swaps are 17.5 basis points more
expensive than contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels
lower at Ba2 by Moody’s. Turkey was 40 basis points above Russia
on April 20.  In a sign supply of rubles is tight, Russia’s  Ruonia , the
average interest rate 31 banks charge to lend local currency to
each other, reached 3.42 percent on Nov. 22, the highest since
April 29, according to Bank Rossii data.  Capital Controls  The amount Russian lenders hold in  deposit  and
 correspondent  accounts with the central bank, another indicator
of liquidity, was at 827 billion rubles ($27 billion) yesterday,
down from 1.1 trillion rubles at the beginning of October.  Policy makers canceled an auction of central bank bonds
designed to soak up excess rubles on the market yesterday. Bank
Rossii has only held one sale of the so-called Obligatsii Banka
Rossii, or OBRs, in November, scrapping the weekly auctions set
for Nov. 11 and 18.  While Brazil and South Korea are imposing capital controls
to rein in currency appreciation, Russia is tapping the world’s
third-largest  reserves stockpile  to prevent a rout in the ruble
as companies pay back foreign debt and lagging economic growth
spurs investors to shun the country. Russia’s international
reserves, only exceeded by stockpiles in China and Japan, have
dropped $14.4 billion from a high of $503.7 billion on Oct. 15,
Bank Rossii said yesterday.  Russia sold $3.2 billion and 437.6 million euros ($584
million) in October to prop up the ruble, the most since January
2009, according to central bank  data  published Nov. 8. Bank
Rossii has been selling an average $325 million of foreign
currency a day in November,  Aurelija Augulyte , an emerging
markets analyst at Nordea Bank AB, said by phone from Copenhagen
yesterday  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  