-- Russia Plans to Cut Timber Export Duty to 15% in EU Deal, Official Says
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2010-11-25T17:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/russia-plans-to-cut-timber-export-duty-to-15-in-eu-deal-official-says.html
Russia plans to cut its timber
export duty to about 15 percent of customs value from 25 percent
as part of talks with the European Union on its bid to join the
World Trade Organization, said an official with direct knowledge
of the negotiations.  The lower duty will come into effect when Russia enters the
WTO, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the details of the Russia-EU agreement aren’t yet
public. Duties will be highest for pine and lowest for birch
timber, the official said.  Finland’s Foreign Ministry said on its  website  today that
European Commission and Russian officials reached an agreement
on the timber export duties in talks last weekend and that the
decision was confirmed in Brussels yesterday.  Details of the timber agreement are expected to be
announced at an EU-Russia summit on Dec. 7, Paivi Nevala, an
adviser to Finnish Foreign Trade and Development Minister  Paavo Vayrynen , said by telephone.  John Clancy , trade spokesman at the commission, the EU’s
executive arm, said the 27-nation bloc had reached agreement
with Russia on its remaining issues in Russia’s WTO bid. “The
EU is satisfied with the outcome achieved in this negotiation
with regard to long standing issues of Russia’s applied export
duties and railway fees,” he said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  A Russian Industry and Trade Ministry official said Russia
is considering reducing the timber export duty, though a final
decision isn’t expected until a meeting in early December of
Deputy Prime Minister  Viktor Zubkov ’s government commission on
protective measures in foreign trade. The official declined to
be identified in line with ministry policy.  A Russian Economy Ministry official declined to comment
immediately on the talks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
 Marina Sysoyeva  in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  