-- Russian Central Bank May Raise Rates Next Quarter
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-11-26T07:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/russian-central-bank-may-raise-rates-next-quarter-survey-shows.html
Russia’s central bank may raise its
key interest rates next quarter, increasing the refinancing rate
for the first time since 2008, even as the regulator seeks to
spur the recovery by keeping borrowing costs low.  Bank Rossii , which has kept its rates unchanged for five
straight months after 14 reductions since April 2009, may raise
the  refinancing rate  a quarter point to 8 percent by the end of
the first quarter next year, according to the median estimate of
19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank considers its rates today at a monthly
meeting, Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  said on Nov. 23.  Alexei Ulyukayev , Ignatiev’s first deputy, said the next day that rates
are “comfortable” for the “near future.” Twenty economists
in the survey said the bank will leave rates unchanged today.  “The need to raise rates is increasing,” said  Vladimir Osakovsky , a Moscow-based economist at UniCredit SpA. Osakovsky
said the regulator will likely keep rates unchanged through the
end of the year before tightening monetary policy at the start
of 2011.  The central bank is trying to contain higher inflationary
pressure without undercutting the recovery from Russia’s 7.9
percent slump last year. Bank Rossii will base its rate policy
next year on the pace of economic expansion, consumer-price
growth and current-account surplus, Ulyukayev said.  Drought Impact  The annual inflation rate reached 7.5 percent in October,
the highest since January, up from 7 percent in September. The
government forecasts consumer-price growth of 8 percent in 2010,
though Ignatiev yesterday said inflation may exceed this
estimate.  Consumer prices in the week through Nov. 22 gained 0.2
percent, putting inflation for the year to date at 7.4 percent,
according to the Federal State Statistics Service.  “Recent inflation data show that the acceleration in
consumer prices is being driven more by monetary factors and not
a supply shock caused by the drought,” Osakovsky said. Raising
the benchmark rate is the most “flexible and effective” tool
the central bank has to fight inflation, he said.  Russia’s benchmark rate is lower than Brazil’s benchmark
Selic overnight rate, which policy makers increased three times
this year to 10.75 percent. India’s central bank raised interest
rates for a sixth time this year on Nov. 2 in Asia’s fastest
round of increases, boosting the repurchase rate by a quarter-
point to 6.25 percent and the reverse repurchase rate by a
similar margin to 5.25 percent.  Heat Wave  The economy of the world’s biggest energy supplier lost
momentum after the worst drought in at least half a century
caused crop losses and fanned inflation. The heat wave will cost
the economy as much as 0.8 percentage point of growth this year,
the Economy Ministry estimates.  Russia’s economy expanded in the third quarter at the
weakest pace this year.  Gross domestic product  grew 2.7 percent
from a year earlier after expanding 5.2 percent in the three
months through June.  The government may miss its 4 percent target for economic
growth this year “by a little bit,” Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said on Nov. 23.  Ulyukayev said current rates “succeed in achieving a
balance between risks of higher inflation and risks to economic
growth.”  “Inflationary trends and the outlook for economic growth
have not undergone any changes over the past month,” he said.
“Economic growth may be slightly faster this month than in
October, while the inflation rate may be slightly worse. That’s
why the balance between them hasn’t fundamentally changed.”  Bank Rossii doesn’t have a timeline for when it may
consider changing its policy rates, Ulyukayev said.  “We’ll increase rates if we see that inflationary risks
are rising and conclude that they aren’t linked with the supply
shock as has been the case until now,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  