-- Rwandan Banks Want Better Projects, Repayments Before Increasing Lending
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2010-11-25T11:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/rwandan-banks-want-better-projects-repayments-before-increasing-lending.html
Rwandan  lenders are unlikely to heed
a call by the central bank to boost loans until there are more
credit-worthy projects to fund and debt-repayment ratios
decline, the head of the country’s banking association said.  Credit provided by commercial banks in the East African
country climbed 5.7 percent to 305.3 billion francs ($517.4
million) in the year through June, according to  National Bank of
Rwanda  data. That is below the desired growth rate of between 15
and 20 percent, Governor  Francois Kanimba  said on Nov. 16.  “We cannot commit credit to borrowers whose track record is
bad, we don’t know, or is hard to know,” Steve Caley, Chairman
of the Rwanda Bankers Association, said in an interview on Nov.
23. “The governor wants us to lend to new businesses, but they
have to be viable. There is ability to pay and willingness to
pay, but loan defaulting in this country is still very high.”  Rwanda’s central bank cut rates twice this year in a bid to
encourage banks to lend more and spur economic growth that
slowed to 4.1 percent last year from 11.2 percent in 2008. The
economy is forecast to expand 5.4 percent this year, according
to  International Monetary Fund  statistics. The benchmark repo
rate is currently 6 percent.  In June, Rwanda granted Credit Reference Bureau Africa the
country’s first operating license for such an agency. The bureau
will help banks appraise the credit profiles of customers
seeking loans, Kanimba was quoted as saying at the time by the
 New Times , a Kigali-based newspaper.  Non-Performing Loans  The average ratio of non-performing loans to assets in
Rwanda’s banking industry is currently about 14 percent, the
highest in East Africa, and should be below 5 percent, according
to Caley.  The ratio “has come down considerably from 30 percent four
years ago,” he said. “The newly established credit reference
bureau will help, but that’s after getting sufficient data.”  Kanimba said on Aug. 26 that the appetite for Rwandan
government bonds showed there is excess liquidity in the
domestic banking system. An auction of five-year, 3.5 billion
Rwandan-franc ($5.9 million) Treasury notes on Nov. 18 attracted
bids totaling 7.05 billion francs.  Caley said Kanimba’s remarks referred to short- rather than
long-term liquidity. “We can’t get short-term liquidity and lend
it to long-term projects, it’s dangerous for us,” Caley said.  Total assets in the Rwandan banking industry are expected
to grow as much as 16 percent this year, as business accelerates
following presidential elections in August, he said.  “In the first half of the year there was a lot of
uncertainty ahead of the August elections, and bankers were
holding back,” Caley said. “But now we are sure some banks will
post good results.”  Rwandan banks’ assets totaled 627 billion Rwandan francs as
of June 30, compared with 578.6 billion francs six months
earlier, according to the central bank. Deposits grew to 462.7
billion francs from 425.4 billion francs over the same period.  Rwanda is rebuilding its economy after about 800,000
people, or more than a 10th of its population, were killed in a
1994 genocide when ethnic Hutu militias slaughtered minority
Tutsis and moderate Hutus over a 100-day period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Malingha Doya  in Kigali via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 