-- South Korea Current-Account Surplus Widened to Three-Month High in October
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-11-26T01:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/s-korea-s-current-account-surplus-was-5-37-billion-in-october.html
South Korea’s current-account
surplus widened to a three-month high in October, indicating
that exports have so far withstood the won’s appreciation
against the dollar.  The  surplus  was $5.37 billion in October, up from a revised
$3.95 billion in September, the Bank of Korea said in a
statement in Seoul today. The current account is the broadest
measure of international trade, tracking goods, services and
investment income.  The nation is one of a number of emerging markets from Asia
to Latin America striving to limit currency appreciation this
year to support exports. North Korean shelling of a South Korean
island three days ago sent the won to a two-month low against
after unsettling investors.  “Exports will likely stay firm,” Hwang In Seong, vice
president of the Samsung Economic Research Institute in Seoul,
said before the release. “The won’s recent weakness due to the
risks from North Korea and Europe will help.”  The currency fell 0.4 percent to 1,142.44 per dollar as of
10:08 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The won’s 9.7 percent advance in the past six months is the
biggest increase in Asia. The Kospi stock index declined 0.6
percent to 1,916.31.  President  Lee Myung Bak’s  government expects limited
economic impact from the incident with the North and has pledged
to supply ample liquidity to cope with any shocks.  Capital Controls  The administration last week supported the revival of a tax
on foreigners investing in the nation’s bonds to curb fund
inflows driving up the won.  “The government may delay additional steps to control
capital flows until international investors feel confident about
the security situation,” Hwang said.  Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo  raised borrowing
costs by 0.25 percentage point in November, the second increase
this year, to 2.5 percent. The current interest rate lags behind
 inflation , which surged past the monetary authority’s ceiling of
4 percent last month.  Exports  account for about half the economy and grew for the
12th straight month in October. Overseas shipments have boosted
earnings this year at firms such as  Hyundai Motor Co. , South
Korea’s largest automaker.  The current-account surplus is set to exceed $30 billion
this year, Lee Young Bog, an official at the Bank of Korea, said
in Seoul today. November’s surplus will likely be lower than
October’s figure, he said, without giving a specific forecast.  Accounting Change  The central bank also said it will change the way it
calculates South Korea’s balance of payments as recommended by
the International Monetary Fund. The new method will apply to
November’s data and previous figures will be restated.  The adjustment “will reduce the huge volatility in the
nation’s current-account and external-debt data due to sizeable
ship exports,” Lee said.  Total exports on a customs-cleared basis, which excludes
ships, rose 27.6 percent last month from a year earlier,
compared with a revised 16.2 percent increase in September.
Imports advanced 21.3 percent.  The surplus on traded goods widened to $6.54 billion in
October from a revised $5.57 billion in September, today’s
report showed. The services deficit, which measures the flow of
travel, transport costs and royalties, was $1.69 billion last
month, compared with a revised $1.96 billion in September.  The income account had a $756 million surplus, from a
revised $509 million surplus in September.  South Korea’s  economy  is expected to grow 6.2 percent this
year and 4.3 percent in 2011, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development estimated on Nov. 18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  