-- San Miguel Rises to 20-Year High on Sale of Gin Distiller, Expansion Plan
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2010-11-25T10:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/san-miguel-rises-to-20-year-high-on-sale-of-gin-distiller-expansion-plan.html
San Miguel Corp. , the largest
Philippine food and drinks company, climbed in Manila trading
after saying it will sell its liquor unit to the group’s brewery
company and boost its energy and mining assets.  Talks are still being held on the sale of  Ginebra San
Miguel Inc.  to  San Miguel Brewery Inc.  while  Petron Corp.,  the
nation’s biggest oil refiner, will expand capacity, President
 Ramon Ang  said yesterday.  Petron  and  Ginebra , the nation’s
biggest gin distiller, also gained.  “ San Miguel  is being true to its promise that it will
strengthen its traditional food and drinks business while
 expanding  non-allied  investments ,” said  Ron Rodrigo , head of
research at DBP-Daiwa SB Capital Markets in Manila. “It makes
sense to consolidate the alcohol assets into one company because
that will improve San Miguel’s metrics like  return on equity .”  The food and drinks company, which began as a brewer in
1890, seeks to accelerate expansion into industries including
railways, energy, telecommunications and mining. These new
assets will have a 20 percent return on equity compared with
about 7 percent that  San Miguel  gets from food and beverages,
Ang said yesterday.  San Miguel  rose 2.6 percent to 120.90 pesos at the 12 p.m.
close of trading in Manila. The stock earlier surged 6.1 percent
to its highest intraday price since at least January 1990.  Indophil Resources   The  Manila-based company  may buy all of Indophil Resources
NL, depending on the results of a review of the miner’s books in
January, Ang said yesterday. He also said that  San Miguel  is
studying investing in an oil and gas company overseas.  “San Miguel’s investment and reorganization plans will add
value ahead of the company’s plan to sell shares,” Rodrigo
said. “It’s transparency on the industries it wants to get into
will help investors understand  San Miguel  better.”  About $3 billion of shares may be sold by San Miguel in the
first quarter of 2011 to fund bids for power and infrastructure
projects, Ang said Nov. 18.  Ginebra  added 1.3 percent to 32.50 pesos, while Petron
gained 3.8 percent to 10.48 pesos.  San Miguel Brewery  was
unchanged at 25 pesos after earlier rising as much as 16
percent.  San Miguel Pure Foods Co. , San Miguel’s hot-dog unit that
plans to sell as much as 50 billion pesos ($1.1 billion) of
stock and bonds, surged 50 percent to 780 pesos. A total of 150
shares changed hands. Pure Foods said in a statement to the
stock exchange it’s not aware of any reason for the price gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  