-- Scottish Premier League Goes Ahead With Games as Foreign Refs Cover Strike
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-11-25T19:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/scottish-premier-league-goes-ahead-with-games-as-foreign-refs-cover-strike.html
Top-division Scottish soccer games
will be officiated by foreign referees this weekend after talks
aimed at resolving a strike by match officials broke down.  All six Scottish Premier League games will take place, as
will the Alba Challenge Cup final between Ross County and Queen
of the South, the Scottish Football Association said. All but
one of the 10 games in the three lower divisions are off.  The striking referees are unhappy at the amount and
intensity of criticism they get from clubs and fans over their
decisions on game incidents. They see their integrity as being
attacked, and have concerns about their personal safety.  The SFA said it reached agreement with “several European
national associations” over bringing in referees. It didn’t
specify where the refs are coming from.  “We have been able to confirm that all the SPL matches
will be taking place this weekend plus the Alba Cup final on
Sunday,” SFA Chief Executive Officer Stewart Regan told the
British Broadcasting Corp.  As well as the SPL games, three Scottish Cup matches will
go ahead, as will the Greenock Morton-Falkirk league game.  Earlier, the SFA said it offered referees “unequivocal and
tangible support” in an attempt to avert the strike. It pledged
to ban clubs from commenting on refs’ decisions before and
immediately after games, and impose tougher penalties on those
who abuse officials or question their honesty.  ‘No Change of Heart’  “Regrettably, at midnight last night, the Scottish FA were
informed that following a further meeting of category-one
referees there would be no change of heart in relation to the
strike and no suspension of action while the Scottish FA
implements the measures proposed,” the SFA said in a  statement
on its website .  The referees said their action is not a “bargaining chip”
aimed at getting “quick fixes or deals.”  “It was instead a genuine call for a moment of reflection
by all who love the game in Scotland and a desire to see a real
and fundamental reappraisal of football’s and society’s
relationship with its referees,” they said in a statement
through the Press Association.  It’s not an industrial relations dispute that can be
“speedily negotiated away to avert ‘action,’” the refs said.
They said that after the weekend they will return to officiating
games and continue dialogue with the ruling body to try to
improve the standing of referees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  