-- Scotland Set to Bring in Foreign Soccer Referees After Strike Talks Fail
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-11-25T12:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/scotland-set-to-bring-in-foreign-soccer-referees-after-strike-talks-fail.html
Scottish soccer will go ahead with a
plan to use foreign referees this weekend after talks aimed at
resolving a strike by match officials broke down.  The Scottish Football Association said it offered referees
“unequivocal and tangible support” in an attempt to avert the
strike. It pledged to ban clubs from commenting on refs’
decisions before and immediately after games, and impose tougher
penalties on those who abuse officials or question their honesty.  “Regrettably, at midnight last night, the Scottish FA were
informed that following a further meeting of category-one
referees there would be no change of heart in relation to the
strike and no suspension of action while the Scottish FA
implements the measures proposed,” the SFA said in a  statement
on its website .  The soccer body said it will now “implement, where
possible, a contingency plan to allow some fixtures to take
place as planned this weekend, using officials from other
international associations.”  The referees are unhappy at the amount and intensity of
criticism they get from clubs and fans over their decisions on
game incidents. They see their integrity as being attacked, and
have concerns about their personal safety.  In a statement through the Press Association, the referees
said their action is not a “bargaining chip” aimed at getting
“quick fixes or deals.”  “It was instead a genuine call for a moment of reflection
by all who love the game in Scotland and a desire to see a real
and fundamental reappraisal of football’s and society’s
relationship with its referees.”  It’s not an industrial relations dispute that can be
“speedily negotiated away to avert ‘action,’” the refs said.
They said that after the weekend they will return to officiating
games and continue dialogue with the ruling body to try to
improve the standing of referees.  It’s not yet clear how much of the weekend program will be
affected by the dispute. The schedule includes six Scottish
Premier League matches and the Alba Challenge Cup final, as well
as Scottish Cup and league games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  