-- Senegal Seeks Moody’s, Fitch Rating for Eurobond Sale (Correct)
-- B y   A n a   M o n t e i r o   a n d   D r e w   H i n s h a w
-- 2010-11-26T07:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/senegal-to-cut-debt-costs-in-500-million-eurobond-exotix-says.html
(Corrects headline, first paragraph to show it seeks
ratings from Fitch; last paragraph to show B+ is S&P rating.
Story first published yesterday.)  Senegal is seeking credit ratings
from Fitch Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service to help lure
investors to its planned sale of $500 million of Eurobonds
during the first half of next year.  “We have been in contact with them in the context of
getting ratings ahead of the sale,” finance ministry spokesman
Ousmane Gueye said by phone from the capital, Dakar, adding the
it hadn’t made any decisions on the debt’s coupon or maturity.  Senegal is taking advantage of investor demand for higher-
yielding emerging-market debt borrowing costs. Its $200 million
of 8.75 percent bonds due in December 2014 have rallied since
their sale last year, reducing the yield to 8.062 percent by the
close of trading yesterday.  Ghana’s dollar bonds due in 2017, which have a B+ non-
investment grade ranking from Fitch Ratings, yield less at 5.89
percent.  “We are seeing strong appetite for emerging-market primary
issuance,” Stuart Culverhouse, chief economist at Exotix Ltd.,
said by phone from London today. Senegal’s decision last year to
sell debt in December “came as a relative surprise to the
market and was in a quiet period, working against them. Giving
advance warning for the first half of next year should get more
favorable terms, and looking at where similarly-rated sovereigns
are trading, I would imagine it could be closer to 6.5
percent.”  Yields Decline  Yields on emerging-market debt have declined as investors
in developed nations seek alternatives to near-zero interest
rates. The extra yield investors demand to own developing
countries’ bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries has fallen to 2.46
percentage points, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index shows.
That’s from as much as 8.65 percentage points in October 2008,
when the world economy headed toward recession after the
collapse of subprime mortgages a year earlier.  Senegal’s economy is likely to grow by 4 to 5 percent
annually until 2014, according to the International Monetary
Fund. The country, whose population is about 94 percent Muslim,
is considering selling Islamic bonds to strengthen ties with
investors in the Middle East, said Birahim Seck, chief executive
officer of Dakar-based SYM International Finance Corp., which
advises Middle Eastern investors in Africa, on Nov. 9.  Senegal’s B+ rating is Standard & Poor’s fourth-highest
non-investment grade level and is the same as assessments for
Kenya and Georgia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Hinshaw in Dakar via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 