-- China's Stocks Drop on Tightening Concern; ICBC, China Vanke Lead Decline
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-26T07:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/shanghai-pudong-development-bank-petrochina-icbc-china-equity-preview.html
Chinese stocks  fell for the first
time in three days, dragging the benchmark index to its third
straight weekly loss, amid speculation the government will step
up policies to curb inflation.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and  China Vanke
Co.  paced declines among banks and developers after the Shanghai
Securities News said the government may cut the target for new
lending next year. Jiangxi Copper Co. dropped 2.7 percent after
the Shanghai Futures Exchange took steps to limit speculation on
metals contracts. Liquor maker  Kweichow Moutai Co.  led producers
of consumer staples higher amid speculation their earnings will
weather tightening measures.  “Investors are awaiting the government to set a tone for
next year’s economic policies, such as new lending and economic
growth targets,” said  Dai Ming , a fund manager at Shanghai
Kingsun Investment Management & Consulting Co. “Large-
capitalization cyclical stocks wouldn’t perform too well until
there’s more clarity. At this moment, buying consumer and
medical shares is a good defensive strategy.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, fell 26.56, or 0.9 percent, to 2,871.70
at the 3 p.m. close. It slid 0.6 percent this week. The  CSI 300
Index  dropped 0.9 percent to 3,194.85.  The Shanghai gauge lost 8.3 percent as of yesterday since
reaching an almost seven-month high on Nov. 8 on concern that
accelerated monetary tightening will crimp economic growth. The
central bank last week ordered banks to set aside larger
reserves for the second time in two weeks after raising interest
rates in October, the first increase since 2007.  Loan Target  Stocks in most of Asia’s markets fell today after North
Korea said it’s “greatly enraged at the provocation” from
South Korea and warned that any “escalated confrontation” will
lead to war, according to state news agency KCNA. It fired
artillery shells on the South’s Yeonpyeong island on Nov. 23,
killing four people and wounding 20.  A gauge of financial stocks in the CSI 300 dropped 1.4
percent today. ICBC, the nation’s biggest listed lender, fell
1.6 percent to 4.32 yuan.  Construction Bank , the second largest,
lost 1.5 percent to 4.68 yuan. Vanke, the nation’s biggest
listed property developer, dropped 2 percent to 8.23 yuan. Poly
Real Estate Group Co., the second biggest, slid 3.1 percent to
12.47 yuan.  The target for new loans next year will likely be close to
7 trillion yuan ($1.05 trillion), less than this year’s 7.5
trillion yuan, Shanghai Securities News reported, citing an
unidentified person.  ‘Policy Tightening’  “The market is still rife with concerns about policy
tightening,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “The central bank had made it clear
that it will use price tools to manage inflation expectations.
That means another interest rate increase will come soon.”  The  National Development and Reform Commission , the
nation’s top planning body, urged local governments to be
careful about introducing price increases, according to a
statement on the commission’s website yesterday.  Chinese policy makers have been stepping up measures in
recent weeks to curb inflation that reached 4.4 percent last
month, the fastest pace in two years. Analysts at nine banks
surveyed by Bloomberg News last week predicted the PBOC will
boost borrowing costs for a second time by year-end.  Jiangxi Copper, the nation’s biggest producer of the metal,
dropped 2.7 percent to 34.98 yuan. Zijin Mining Group Co.,
China’s largest gold producer, slid 1.9 percent to 8.38 yuan.
 Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. , the listed unit of China’s No. 2
steelmaker, lost 0.9 percent to 6.42 yuan.  Consumer Staples  The Shanghai Futures Exchange, where the world’s top three
metals contracts are traded, will increase margins and daily
price limits in the latest move by China to curb speculation and
cool inflation. The exchange also said it will suspend a 50
percent trading fee discount for forward contracts of more than
six months, and raise the charge for rubber futures.  A measure of  consumer-staples stocks  in the CSI 300
advanced 1.6 percent today, the biggest increase among the stock
gauge’s 10 industry groups. The consumer index today closed at
its highest level since January 2008 as investors seek havens
from tighter monetary policies.  Kweichow Moutai, China’s biggest producer of baijiu liquor
by market value, gained 2.1 percent to 207.24 yuan, its highest
close since March 2008. Wuliangye Yibin Co., the second largest,
added 3.3 percent to 40.44 yuan.  Jiangsu Wuzhong Industrial Co. , a Suzhou-based medicine
maker, surged by the 10 percent daily limit to 6.69 yuan after
saying it will get 12 million yuan in government funding for a
patent medicine.  China’s stocks are “obviously attractive” though there is
low appetite for risk at the end of the year after a series of
initial share sales, Trivest Advisors’  Xue Lan  said in a
Bloomberg TV interview.  -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Darren Boey ,  Reinie Booysen .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  