-- Siddle's Hat Trick Puts Australia in Control of First Ashes Cricket Test
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-11-25T14:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/siddle-s-hat-trick-puts-australia-in-control-of-first-ashes-cricket-test.html
Fast bowler  Peter Siddle  took six
wickets, including a hat trick, as Australia dismissed England
for 260 before reaching 25 without loss in reply on the first
day of the Ashes cricket series in Brisbane.  Siddle, who celebrated his 26th birthday yesterday, removed
Alastair Cook,  Matt Prior  and  Stuart Broad  in consecutive
deliveries in the final session. He finished with career-best
figures of 6-54 to put the home team in control after England
had won the toss.  Spin bowler Xavier Doherty took two wickets in his Test
debut as England’s last six batsman fell for 63 runs. Australia
openers  Shane Watson  and  Simon Katich  replied with an unbeaten
partnership of 25 by stumps.  “Obviously there’s still plenty of time in this match,
four days to go,” Siddle told reporters after the close of play
yesterday. “The morning’s going to be the crucial time. Work
hard that first hour and see the new ball off and see where we
can go from there.”  Siddle, chosen ahead of Doug Bollinger as the third pace
bowler in Australia’s attack, swung the match Australia’s way as
England fell from 197-4 to 197-7 in three deliveries. Siddle had
opener Cook caught for 67 at first slip by Watson, then bowled
Prior and had Broad trapped leg-before-wicket following a video
review to complete his triple-strike.  It was the 11th Test hat trick by an Australian and first
since  Glenn McGrath  against the West Indies in the 2000-2001
season. The feat has now been achieved  38 times  in 133 years of
elite Test cricket.  Wood Chopper  Siddle, a former junior wood-chopping competitor from
Victoria state, took his sixth wicket of the day when Graeme
Swann was trapped lbw for 10. Doherty had  Ian Bell  caught on 76
for his first wicket and then bowled James Anderson for 11 to
wrap up the innings.  Siddle had earlier removed  Kevin Pietersen  and  Paul Collingwood  in the afternoon session to leave England at 172-4
at the tea interval. England lost two wickets for 86 runs in the
morning after captain  Andrew Strauss  won the toss and opted to
bat amid overcast conditions at the Gabba, where Australia is
unbeaten in  21 matches  going back to 1988.  “The guys are still in good spirits, we knew what we had
to do and the guys are ready for it,” Bell told reporters. “We
are going to come out scrapping.”  Strauss fell without scoring in the third ball before
Watson removed  Jonathan Trott  for 29. Strauss, who led England
to a 2-1 Ashes triumph at home last year, lasted three minutes
before swing bowler  Ben Hilfenhaus  enticed him into a cut shot
that flew straight to Mike Hussey at gully.  Second Wicket  Cook and Trott then added 41 runs for the second wicket
before Watson knocked over Trott’s middle stump with a delivery
that speared between bat and pad. Pietersen joined Cook in the
middle and the pair guided England to lunch with a 45-run
partnership. They extended their stand to 76 runs after the
interval before Siddle struck twice.  Pietersen, England’s leading run scorer in Australia four
years ago, was on 43 when he drove at a delivery that took an
outside edge and was caught by Australia captain  Ricky Ponting 
at second slip. Collingwood followed for 4 soon after, edging to
 Marcus North  at third slip.  Katich will resume on 15 this morning with Watson on 9 as
Australia starts day two 235 runs behind England’s first innings
total.  “Anything can happen,” Siddle said. “It’s always tough
up here with the earlier start. As long as they can work hard
and dig in it definitely can set us up for a good position.”  While England won the past two Ashes contests staged in the
U.K., its last series victory on Australian soil was in 1986-87.
Australia has only lost two home series since that defeat to
 Mike Gatting ’s England team.  “We’re not out of this at all,” Bell said. “We’re only
one day into the Ashes series.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Brisbane through the Sydney newsroom
at   dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  