-- Singh Investment Agenda Blocked as Probe Shows Coalition Cost
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2010-11-25T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/singh-investment-agenda-blocked-as-probe-shows-coalition-cost.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s re-election 18 months ago sent stocks and the rupee to
record gains as investors anticipated measures to promote
investment. Now, the regional parties keeping Singh in power are
blocking his agenda.  One of Singh’s 10 parliamentary partners is at the center
of a federal telecommunications probe that may turn out to be
India’s biggest case of political corruption. Another regional
ally is slowing Singh’s efforts to change rules on how
steelmakers Posco and  ArcelorMittal  acquire land for their
mills, delaying as much as $100 billion in investment.  Even after winning the most parliamentary seats of any
party in two decades, Singh’s  Indian National Congress  has
failed to implement economic changes sought by business leaders.
His coalition lacks a parliamentary majority and is distracted
by political scandals, rising inflation and a worsening Maoist
insurgency in eastern India.  “There are a lot of very important reforms that need to be
passed that won’t go through,” said  Apurva Shah , head of
research at Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. in Mumbai, which provides
equity and brokerage services. “It’s frustrating. The
government is struggling to assert its authority.”  Such Singh initiatives as opening up the $1.3-trillion
economy to foreign insurers and retailers, including  American
International Group Inc.  and Wal-Mart Stores Inc., are in
jeopardy, Shah said.  Land Struggles  Singh’s main ally, Trinamool Congress Party leader  Mamata Banerjee , says that the government must abandon a plan to help
companies acquire as much as 30 percent of land for industrial
projects. Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal and Pohang, South-Korea
based  Posco  are struggling to obtain land from farmers, stalling
their plans to build plants worth $22 billion.  Banerjee also opposes a government offensive against
Maoists, who control an area the size of Portugal and are
blocking $80 billion of potential development.  The government was forced to surrender to demands from
opposition politicians to extend liability protection to nuclear
suppliers, and it needed the backing of regional power broker
 Mayawati , head of the Bahujan Samaj Party, to win a key budget
vote in April.  After Congress won 206 of the 545 lower-house seats last
year, it was able to govern without the  communists , who in the
previous term had blocked overhauls in pensions, insurance,
retail and banking and opposed civil nuclear cooperation with
the U.S. Still, the coalition, with 265 seats, is seven seats
short of a majority.  Investigations Sought  Parliament has been deadlocked for the last two weeks as
opposition parties seek an investigation into allegations
against former Telecommunications Minister Andimuthu Raja. A
member of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam party and a Congress
ally since 2004, Raja is said by the Comptroller and Auditor
General of India to have sold mobile operator permits to
“ineligible” companies at below-market rates. The revenue loss
to the state may have reached $31 billion, the auditor said.  The government sold wireless airwaves in 2008 for 123.9
billion rupees ($2.7 billion) though they were worth as much as
1.5 trillion rupees, the auditor said in a report to parliament
in New Delhi on Nov. 15. Raja denies any wrongdoing.  At the time the government was formed last year, the
Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam party demanded the telecommunications
ministry in return for its support. When the Central Bureau of
Investigation announced it was looking into Raja’s decisions in
selling phone permits, he initially refused to step down and
Singh didn’t ask for his resignation. Raja resigned on Nov. 15.  Probe Request Rebuffed  Singh has rejected allegations that he had delayed
responding to calls to prosecute the minister and pledged to
punish the guilty. He has also rebuffed an opposition demand for
a Joint Parliamentary Committee probe into the allegations.  The opposition parties also have halted more than 110 hours
of parliament sessions as they demanded action to control
inflation and called for investigations into alleged corruption
involving cricket, the New Delhi Commonwealth Games and a real
estate development in Mumbai.  “We expected more serious policy initiatives from this
second-term government, and as you can see a huge amount of
energy is going into firefighting and disaster management,”
said  Mahesh Rangarajan , a politics professor at Delhi
University. “This is the worst crisis they have faced in the
last six years.”  The benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index 
surged a record 17 percent the first day after Singh’s re-
election, as investors bet the resounding victory would allow
the government to ease foreign investment rules. The rupee had
its best month on record.  Index Falling  In the past month, the Sensex has fallen 4.9 percent while
the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  has fallen 1.6 percent.  In the current parliament, the government has passed the
fewest number of laws since 2004, according to New Delhi-based
 PRS Legislative Research : 39 of 64 planned laws this year.  Congress’s plan to lift curbs that limit foreign retailers
such as Bentonville, Arkansas-based-based  Wal-Mart  from selling
to the country’s 1.2 billion consumers has languished for more
than five years. A bill that seeks to raise the  foreign-direct-
investment  ceiling for insurers such as New York-based AIG to 49
percent from 26 percent has been stuck in parliament since 2008.  Similarly, Singh’s ambitions to open pensions business to
overseas companies are unrealized.  “Decision-making slows down because forging a consensus
between different stakeholders is a challenge,” said
Jagannatham Thunuguntla, New Delhi-based chief strategist at SMC
Global Securities Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Macaskill  in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  