-- Singapore Says Low Borrowing Costs, Excess Cash May Spur Property Market
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-11-25T08:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/singapore-says-low-borrowing-costs-excess-cash-may-spur-property-market.html
Singapore’s central bank said low
borrowing costs and excess liquidity globally may push the
island’s property prices higher again, setting back government
efforts to cool the market.  There is a risk that financial institutions may ease
lending standards and extend more loans to make up for narrowing
interest margins, the Monetary Authority of Singapore said in
its Financial Stability Review today. Buyers may also take on
“excessive leverage” amid expectations of a sustained period
of low rates, the central bank said.  The government in August increased down payments for second
mortgages and imposed a stamp duty on property held for less
than three years to curb speculation. After leading 36 markets
around the world in property-value changes in the second quarter
in a Global Property Guide survey, government statistics showed
price gains slowed in the three months to the end of September.  “There is a possibility that transaction activity and
prices could pick up again given the current global conditions
of flush liquidity and low interest rates,” the central bank
said. “The government will continue to be vigilant in
monitoring developments in the property market, and if
necessary, adopt additional measures to promote a sustainable
property market.”  Government Land Auction  The government  said  it placed 17 sites on its list of
property to sell for residential developments in the first half
next year. About 8,100 apartments can be built on the sites,
comparable to the supply in the second half this year, the most
since it started its current land auction system in 2001, it
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Another 13 properties will also be offered in the first
half, which could yield a further 6,200 homes, it said. An
auction for these sites will only be triggered when the
government receives a bid that meets its minimum price, it said.  Private residential prices rose 2.9 percent in the third
quarter from the previous three months, when they climbed 5.3
percent, according to Urban Redevelopment Authority. Singapore’s
government forecasts economic growth of 15 percent this year and
expansion of 4 percent to 6 percent in 2011.  ‘Sentiment-Sensitive’  “As the property market is sentiment-sensitive, a pick-up
in activity could lead to rapidly escalating prices,” the
central bank said. “If economic recovery disappoints on the
downside amidst continued uncertainties in the global economy
and market confidence is dented, prices could fall. On the other
hand, if the economic recovery continues apace, there could be
widespread implications on buyers who overextended themselves
when interest rates eventually rise.”  Asian markets including China, Hong Kong and Taiwan
introduced measures including higher down payments on loans this
year to cool their property markets amid concerns that asset
bubbles are forming as home prices surge.  Hong Kong intensified its yearlong battle to curb prices
with additional taxes last week, while  Ba Shusong , a top Chinese
cabinet researcher, said in a commentary in China Business News
today that tougher property measures are needed in the country.  “We need to introduce harsher tightening policies to curb
property speculation,” said Ba, who’s also deputy director-
general of China’s State Council’s Development Research Center.
“Inflation is expected to rise, driven by excess liquidity and
low interest rates.”  China Measures  China, which last month raised interest rates for the first
time in three years, this year suspended mortgages for third-
home purchases and pledged to speed up trials of property taxes
to restrain foreign capital and cool property prices. While home
prices posted the smallest gain in 10 months in October, the
nation’s biggest developers reported higher home sales and
inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in two years.  Asian economies are battling capital inflows that threaten
to create asset bubbles as investors seek higher returns in a
region where growth is outpacing the rest of the world. Asian
currencies have surged this year and some stock markets have
reached record levels in recent weeks as the Federal Reserve
embarked on another round of quantitative easing.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said this month it will purchase
$600 billion of Treasuries to spur the world’s largest economy,
a move known as quantitative easing that policy makers from Asia
to South America said could depress the dollar and spark capital
flight to emerging markets.  ‘Substantial’ Inflows  About $600 billion in foreign capital flowed into Asia in
the year ended in the second quarter of 2010, the Singapore
central bank said. While the inflows were “substantial,” they
are still “significantly smaller” than those seen in 2007, it
said, adding that Asian banking systems appear to be resilient.  “The search for yield among investors with short
investment horizons or those that are excessively optimistic
could push prices away from fundamentals for a range of asset
classes,” according to the review. “The risk is especially
high where markets may not be sufficiently deep or liquid.
Should capital flows reverse, disorderly corrections could
result.”  To manage inflows, Thailand scrapped an exemption last
month that allowed foreigners to avoid a 15 percent tax on
income from its bonds. South Korea’s government said last week
it plans to reinstate income and capital-gains taxes on overseas
investors’ bond holdings, while Taiwan said Nov. 9 that global
funds will be allowed to invest no more than 30 percent of their
portfolios in government bonds and money-market products.  While Asian policy makers have adopted various measures to
address risks related to capital flows, asset prices and bank
credit quality, “there is scope for structural reform to
further address these risks,” the central bank said. “A key
priority would be broadening and deepening Asian financial
markets to enable more efficient intermediation of capital
inflows.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  