-- Societe Generale Wins Against Ex-Client’s ‘Moonshine’
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-11-26T00:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/societe-generale-wins-order-against-former-client-s-moonshine-defense.html
Societe Generale  SA won a court
order for a former private banking client to pay it about
$180,022 after a Hong Kong judge ruled that his defense and
counterclaim were “frivolous and practically moonshine.”  Mike Panjwani, a British businessman living in Singapore,
ignored his banker’s request for margin payments on his trading
accounts and the bank was entitled to close out his positions
after “reasonable” attempts in informing him, Judge Anthony To
said in a 43-page  judgment  yesterday.  Panjwani’s claim that his relationship manager had said the
margin shortfall wasn’t an issue until the businessman hesitated
to pay S$15,000 ($11,500) to the banker’s personal account “is
simply incapable of belief,” Judge To wrote. The former client
also failed to transfer S$75,000 to top up his accounts after
promising to do so, according to the ruling.  The businessman alleged in his counterclaim that Societe
Generale had no right to sell his assets as he wasn’t given
reasonable notice. Panjwani also claimed he didn’t pay the
S$75,000 due to the bank’s error.  Societe Generale had wrongfully ended Panjwani’s loan,
foreign exchange and equity option facilities and sold his
secured assets at a fraction of their purchase price, the
businessman had claimed.  The judge ordered Panjwani to pay the bank S$232,961 and
$2,070 and interest after the former client, who was “an
experienced player in margin trading,” repeatedly failed to pay
the sum.  Panjwani couldn’t be reached for comment through his law
firm in Hong Kong. Simmons & Simmons acted for Societe Generale.  Banks including UBS AG and Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch & Co. and some of their former private banking clients
have sued each other in the wake of the financial crisis
precipitated by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse.  The case is Societe Generale Bank & Trust Hong Kong Branch
and Mike Panjwani, HCA725/2009 in the Hong Kong High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  