-- Sony Said to Seek President as Possible Successor to Stringer
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2010-11-25T06:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/sony-said-to-seek-president-as-possible-successor-to-howard-stringer.html
Sony Corp. , Japan’s biggest exporter
of consumer electronics, plans to look for a new president who
could eventually succeed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Howard Stringer , people familiar with the matter said.  Stringer would retain his roles of chairman and CEO, said
the people, who asked not to be named because the talks are
private. Stringer took on the president’s job in April 2009
after ousting  Ryoji Chubachi .  Installing a president would give Stringer, who turns 69 in
February, a deputy to lighten his work and travel load and offer
the designee a chance to prove their mettle as Sony sets its
long-term plans.  Kazuo Hirai  and  Hiroshi Yoshioka , two of the
company’s so-called Four Musketeers, may be considered, one of
the people said.  Tokyo-based spokesman  Shiro Kambe  declined to comment.  “Stringer should be credited for carrying out structural
reforms to stop the company from bleeding,” said Kohi Toda,
Tokyo-based chief fund manager at Resona Bank Ltd., which
oversees about $55 billion in assets. “Nevertheless, Stringer
hasn’t managed to steer the company to growth. His
accomplishment was rather earning time and energy for Sony to
get ready for the next growth.”  Stringer travels frequently between his main office in New
York, Sony’s Tokyo headquarters, the movie division in Los
Angeles and London where his family lives. He said last year he
wanted to remain on the job until Sony completes its business
plan ending in March 2013.  Apple, Samsung  The choice of the next president may herald a new emphasis
on electronics after a decades-long expansion into media. Sony
has been unable to loosen  Apple Inc. ’s grip on portable media
players or fend off Samsung Electronics Co.’s rise in
televisions, while Nintendo Co. took the lead in video-game
consoles.  Since Stringer took over in June 2005, Sony’s  stock  has
fallen about 25 percent, double the drop by Japan’s benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average. The shares rose 0.8 percent to 2,894
yen in Tokyo today.  Stringer replaced division leaders to spur cooperation and
cut 30,000 jobs to revive  earnings . Sony has been trying to
boost sales by promoting 3-D products and being first in
offering Internet-oriented TVs that run on  Google Inc.  software
and Intel Corp. chips.  Profit Forecast  The company raised its full year net income forecast last
month after improved results in the unit that handles
PlayStation consoles, Vaio computers and Walkman media players.
Sony has posted two consecutive profitable quarters, even as the
yen strengthened to near a 15-year high.  Since 2009, Stringer has been grooming four executives as
he pushes Sony’s divisions to marry hardware products with film,
TV, game titles and music from the company’s entertainment
businesses. With the exception of Hirai, Sony’s “musketeers”
are all engineers by trade.  Hirai, 49, who spearheads Sony’s games business, and
Yoshioka, who’s in charge of TVs, cameras and chips, are the
leading internal contenders for the president’s role, according
to the people.  ‘Musketeers’  Hirai started his career at a joint venture between Sony
and CBS, now called Sony Music Entertainment Inc., in 1984. He
was named president of Sony’s U.S. game unit in 1999. The
executive, fluent in Japanese and English, was brought up in the
U.S. and Japan.  Yoshioka, the oldest of the “musketeers” at 58, oversees
a $50 billion consumer products group that includes  TVs ,
stereos,
DVD and Blu-ray players and camcorders. Batteries and
semiconductors are also handled at his group.  Yoshihisa Ishida , 51, who spent most of his career at Sony
developing and marketing Vaio personal computers, now heads the
TV business within Yoshioka’s group.  Kunimasa Suzuki , 50, leads
Sony’s Vaio personal computer operation under Hirai’s networked
products group.  Stringer, who holds master’s and bachelor’s degrees in
history from Oxford University, joined Sony in 1997 after a
career spanning two decades at CBS. The Welsh-born U.S. citizen
became chairman and CEO in 2005 after winning the endorsement of
his predecessor,  Nobuyuki Idei , who oversaw the loss of more
than 60 percent of Sony’s market value over five years as Apple
and Samsung gained market share.  Format Wars  Stringer scored a victory over Toshiba Corp., which
abandoned its HD DVD technology in 2008, handing the high-
definition video market to Sony’s Blu-ray. It was the
entertainment industry’s largest format tussle since VHS beat
Betamax in the 1980s. He also oversaw Sony when robust sales of
Vaio computers and smaller digital cameras led the company to
post net income of 369.4 billion yen ($4.4 billion) in the year
ended March 2008, the company’s highest in a decade.  Prior to the earnings comeback, Stringer also oversaw the
biggest recall in the consumer-electronics industry in 2006 when
some of the company’s batteries overheated. He led Sony during
the company’s first back-to-back annual  losses  since its
listing.
Under Stringer, the company’s flagship PlayStation 3 was outsold
by Nintendo’s Wii, and sales of Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle trumped
those of Sony’s rival electronic-book reader.  Under  Akio Morita  and  Masaru Ibuka , who co-founded Sony in
1946, the company created Japan’s first transistor radio and the
world’s first compact disc player. Morita’s admirers included
Apple founder  Steve Jobs , according to John Sculley, former CEO
of Apple.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ; 