-- South Korea Defense Minister Resigns After Exchange of Fire With the North
-- B y   J u n g m i n   H o n g
-- 2010-11-25T12:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/south-korea-defence-minister-kim-quits-after-north-korea-artilley-shelling.html
South Korea’s Defense Minister  Kim Tae Young  resigned today, quitting his position two days after
North Korea fired artillery onto its territory for the first
time in half a century.  His resignation was accepted by President  Lee Myung Bak 
and a replacement will probably be announced tomorrow, according
to a statement on the website of the presidential office. Kim
had offered to resign in May after the sinking of the South
Korean warship Cheonan in March, according to the statement.  “The decision was made today in an attempt to restore the
discipline of the military in the wake of the latest
development,” according to the statement.  Tensions with North Korea have risen since the sinking of
the warship, which killed 46 sailors. The Nov. 23 shelling of
the Yeonpyeong island, which killed 4 and wounded 20, is the
first of its kind since the 1950-1953 Korean War and has spurred
U.S. President  Barack Obama  to send an aircraft carrier to the
region as a show of support and strength.  South Korea will revise battle manuals and increase
military strength on its maritime border, the presidential
office said in a separate statement earlier today after an
emergency Cabinet meeting.  Plans to reduce the number of marines on Yeonpyeong and
four neighboring islands on the western side of the Korean
peninsula will be scrapped, according to the statement. The
nation has raised its military alert status to the
second-highest level.  The North Korean army’s Supreme Command, in a statement
issued through the official Korean Central News Agency, accused
South Korea of firing first and warned of “merciless military
attacks” if its territory is violated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at 
 jhong47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  