-- S. Africa Seeks Kumba, ArcelorMittal Ore Pricing Deal
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-11-25T16:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/south-african-government-seeks-arcelormittal-kumba-iron-ore-price-accord.html
South Africa’s government said it
wants iron ore from a disputed portion of the Sishen mine, the
country’s biggest ore deposit, to be sold at cost plus 3 percent
while it formulates a new pricing model for the steel industry.  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. , a unit of Anglo American Plc, has
filed a lawsuit aimed at overturning the government’s decision
to award 21.4 percent of the Sishen mining rights to Imperial
Crown Trading. Imperial is being acquired by  ArcelorMittal South
Africa Ltd. , a unit of the world’s biggest steelmaker.  A government task team will hold talks with the companies
“with the objective of providing cost plus 3 percent access to
the 21.4 percent Sishen mining rights to ArcelorMittal South
Africa or other steel producers,” government spokesman  Vusi Mona  told reporters in Pretoria today. The charge should stand
until a government-determined “developmental pricing model” is
implemented that will result in domestic steel prices “being no
higher than the lowest quartile of global prices,” he said.  It’s “not possible for Kumba to enter into any
agreements” before the legal processes are concluded, Pretoria-
based Kumba said in an e-mailed statement today.  “We cannot comment at this stage as we have not seen the
full report presented to Cabinet,”  ArcelorMittal South Africa ,
which is based at Vanderbijlpark, south of Johannesburg, said in
an e-mailed response to questions.  Missed Deadline  In March, Pretoria-based Kumba canceled a nine-year deal
that compelled it to supply ore from Sishen to ArcelorMittal at
3 percent more than the cost of production after the steelmaker
missed a deadline to renew mineral rights that were subsequently
awarded to Imperial. The steelmaker said the decision could
force it to close its Saldanha mill, cut all exports and fire as
many as 4,000 workers.  On July 22, the companies reached agreement on an interim
supply accord under which ArcelorMittal will pay $50 a metric
ton for ore supplied to its Saldanha mill on South Africa’s west
coast and $70 a ton for deliveries to its two inland mills.  The companies are currently in arbitration over the ore
supply contract.  Shares  in ArcelorMittal South Africa rose 25 cents, or 0.3
percent, to 76.71 rand at the 5 p.m. close in Johannesburg,
while Kumba advanced 2 rand, or 0.5 percent, to 415 rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  