-- South African Producer-Price Inflation Unexpectedly Slowed to 6.4% on Rand
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-11-25T10:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/south-african-producer-price-inflation-slows-to-6-4-ongains-in-rand-value.html
The cost of goods leaving South
African factories and mines rose at a slower pace in October
than the previous month, as a rally in the rand helped contain
increases in the price of imports and electricity prices fell.  Producer prices increased an annual 6.4 percent after
gaining 6.8 percent in September, Pretoria-based  Statistics
South Africa  said on its website today. The  median estimate  of
18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 6.8 percent. Prices fell
0.4 percent in the month.  The rand has gained 7.8 percent against the dollar since
June 1, helping offset a 15 percent increase in the dollar price
of oil and cutting other import costs. The strength of the rand
has enabled consumer-price inflation to remain within the
central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target range for nine
months.  “Commodity prices have risen sharply in recent months on
the back of strong investment demand,” Nedbank Group Ltd.,
South Africa’s fourth largest bank, said in e-mailed comments.
“The impact domestically has been muted so far due to the
strength of the rand.”  The rand traded at 7.0739 per dollar at 12:17 p.m. in
Johannesburg, from 7.0551 before the release of the inflation
data.  The consumer-price  inflation  rate rose to 3.4 percent in
October, the first increase in 10 months, as transport costs
increased, the government statistics agency said yesterday.  Rate Cut  The central bank cut its benchmark interest  rate  by half a
percentage point to 5.5 percent on Nov. 18, the ninth reduction
since December 2008.  “Interest rates are expected to remain unchanged
throughout next year as domestic growth remains subdued and
inflation, despite ticking up slightly, stays well contained,”
Nedbank said. “However, further monetary easing is still
possible if the rand remains strong, economic growth disappoints
again and inflation remains tame.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 