-- Spain Can Tap Markets as Funding This Year Still `Comfortable,' Campa Says
-- B y   P a u l   T o b i n   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-11-25T09:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/spain-can-tap-markets-as-funding-this-year-still-comfortable-campa-says.html
Spain’s funding for the rest of the
year remains “comfortable,” helped by better-than-forecast
revenue and a shrinking budget deficit, and the government
doesn’t expect problems tapping financial markets going forward,
said Deputy Finance Minister  Jose Manuel Campa .  Spain, which saw its  borrowing costs  surge to an eight-year
high today, has two more bond auctions scheduled this year. The
Treasury will sell three-year debt on Dec. 2 and 10- and 15-year
securities on Dec. 16, and has about 8 billion euros ($11
billion) still to raise this year, according to the state
borrowing plan.  Campa said that since the funding plan was announced at the
beginning of the year, the government has implemented public-
wage cuts and other  austerity  steps to try to shrink its budget
gap after Greece’s near-default shook investor confidence in the
euro-region’s high-deficit nations.  “We have increased and front-loaded our fiscal
consolidation,” he said in an interview at the finance ministry
in Madrid late yesterday. “The revenues are actually above
budget, so our financial conditions are better than we
anticipated, so our financial position in terms of funding for
the remaining month and a half is quite comfortable.”  Expanding Fund  Spain is trying to distance itself from other so-called
peripheral nations after Ireland’s request for a European
bailout fueled contagion through the southern euro region,
pushing the extra yield on Spanish  debt  to a euro-era high.
Spain’s economy is almost twice the size of Portugal, Greece and
Ireland combined, making investor concerns about its ability to
control its finances a greater risk to the euro region overall.  European Central Bank council member  Axel Weber  yesterday
said the 750-billion euro stability fund for European states
could be ramped up if needed to restore confidence in financial
markets.  Campa, a 46 year-old Harvard-educated economist, said he is
“concerned” about market tensions, even as Spain’s interest
costs remain low in historic terms. The former professor at New
York’s Stern School of Business said he’s “confident” Spain
will reach its budget-deficit target of 9.3 percent of gross
domestic product this year and next year’s goal of 6 percent is
unmovable.  Target ‘Unconditional’  “This is an unconditional target, this 6 percent, it’s not
conditional on macroeconomic behavior,” he said. “That means
being ready.”  Spain’s regional governments, whose widening deficits
contributed to the surge in the national shortfall, will meet
their combined budget targets this year and will start giving
comparable budget data on a quarterly basis, Finance Minister
 Elena Salgado  said yesterday, in a move she called “great
progress for transparency.” Two of the 17 regions, Murcia and
Castilla-La Mancha, are at risk of not achieving their
individual targets and must take “significant” measures to
stop the slippage, she said.  The central government is encouraging the regions to rein
in their shortfalls as Ireland this week became the first nation
to seek to tap the euro region’s 750 billion-euro bailout fund,
a decision that led the government to call for early elections.
Ireland yesterday announced spending cuts of 20 percent over the
next four years as it seeks to rein in a deficit that will reach
32 percent of GDP in 2010.  Irish Fallout  Ireland’s call for aid sparked an increase in borrowing
costs for Portugal and Spain, with the extra  yield  on Spanish
debt compared with German equivalents holding near yesterday’s
close of 235 basis points, the highest close since the euro was
created in 1999. The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond
rose 3 basis point to 5.11 percent, the highest since 2002.  The Spanish government says it needs to execute the
measures it has pledged rather than take new steps to win
credibility. The central government  budget  deficit narrowed by
almost half to 2.96 percent of GDP in the first 10 months from
5.63 percent a year earlier, Finance Ministry data shows.  That compares with a 30 percent decline in Greece’s state
budget deficit, while Portugal’s central administration’s
shortfall continued to widen through October and Ireland’s
overall deficit including the cost of bank bailouts will be more
than double last year’s level.  Spain is reducing infrastructure spending, cutting public
wages, freezing pensions and raising levies including a 2
percentage-point increase in value-added tax to cut the deficit
from 11 percent last year. It plans to overhaul the pension
system and push through additional changes to wage-bargaining
and employment rules to complement a new labor law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  