-- Spain's 2018 World Cup Stadium Construction Plans Face Credit Bottleneck
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-11-25T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/spain-s-2018-world-cup-stadium-plans-may-struggle-with-host-cities-debts.html
Spanish cities proposing to spend
$1.2 billion on 2018 World Cup stadiums face trouble getting
loans to finance the work, analysts said.  Malaga, Zaragoza and Santander are among public
administrations that would be stymied by a central government
push to cut Spain’s deficit, said Angel Laborda, chief economist
at Spanish savings bank foundation Funcas.  A Spain/Portugal bid is vying with England, Russia and a
Netherlands/Belgium alliance in a Dec. 2 vote by soccer ruling
body FIFA. Spain and Portugal are tightening budgets to try to
stem a surge in borrowing costs after Ireland’s planned 85
billion-euro ($114 billion) bailout by the European Union and
International Monetary Fund.  “If building these stadiums means taking on more debt, I
fear that they won’t happen,” Laborda said in an interview.
“The government won’t let” the cities do so, Laborda added.  The Spain/Portugal bid is third-favorite at 7-2 with
bookmaker  William Hill Plc  behind Russia and England at 4-5 and
13-8, respectively. The Netherlands/Belgium bid is the 50-1
outsider. A successful $1 bet on Spain/Portugal would yield
$3.50 plus the original stake. Spain hosted the event in 1982
while Portugal has never done so.  The U.S., Australia, Japan, South Korea and Qatar are
competing to stage the 2022 World Cup, whose host will also be
announced Dec. 2 in Zurich.  Eleven Spanish cities, some backed by regional authorities,
plan to help bankroll work on 21 proposed stadiums in the
Iberian bid between 2011 and 2017, according to a report by
Zurich-based FIFA published on Nov. 18.  Debt Limits  Officials from Malaga, Zaragoza and Santander, slated to
spend $286 million, said by telephone they don’t expect to be
able to borrow for investments in 2011 under government
legislation announced this year because their debt-to-revenue
ratios will exceed 75 percent in the current year.  A Malaga city official said its stadium plans are on hold
pending the Dec. 2 vote. Zaragoza is seeking funding for an
arena and could get around the city’s ban on credit by
partnering with private investors, Miguel Garcia, a town hall
spokesman, said by telephone. Santander city officials didn’t
reply to e-mailed questions about their plans.  The central government has pledged to cut the overall
deficit to 6 percent of gross domestic product next year from
11.1 percent in 2009. It’s reducing infrastructure spending,
freezing pensions next year and raising levies including a 2
percentage-point increase in value-added tax to 18 percent.  Budget Pressure  Local authorities would need to make extra cuts to meet the
costs of the stadiums, said  Giada Giani , an economist at
Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. in London.  “The pressure on the budget will stay high” for several
years, Giani said. “We don’t expect the sovereign debt
situation to go away anytime soon.”  Bid chief executive Miguel Angel Lopez said the organizers
would need to cut nine of the 21 proposed stadiums if it is
picked as host to meet  FIFA’s  maximum of 12, and could drop
those with funding difficulties.  The main stadiums in the bid, Real Madrid’s Santiago
Bernabeu ground and Barcelona’s Camp Nou, and all three of the
arenas in Portugal are ready and wouldn’t need any additional
spending, Lopez said.  “We don’t have to worry,” Lopez said in an interview.
“We won’t have to think the World Cup is coming and we don’t
have anything ready.”  Greater Scrutiny  The Spain/Portugal and England bids got the lowest risk
rating among the 2018 bids in FIFA’s evaluation report. Ten of
the 21 proposed stadiums need less than $20 million of
upgrading, the report said, while five need to be built from
scratch.  The finances of the Iberian bid may come under more
scrutiny because of Ireland’s bailout, said  Chuck Blazer , a U.S.
member of FIFA’s 22-man executive committee that will decide on
the 2018 and 2022 World Cup hosts.  “Frankly, I am surprised that it really hasn’t been
focused on until now,” Blazer said in an e-mail. “Investment
in facilities and improvements in stadiums and infrastructure
need to begin earlier than one might imagine.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:  Alex Duff  in
Madrid at   aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  