-- Asian Stocks Fluctuate as Korea Conflict Tension Tempers Weber's Comments
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-11-26T01:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/stocks-climb-for-second-day-as-weber-s-euro-comments-boost-growth-optimism.html
Asian  stocks  fluctuated as mining
companies rose after German central bank President  Axel Weber 
said a rescue fund for the euro area would be sufficient to calm
financial markets. South Korea’s stocks fell after the country’s
defense minister quit in response to shelling from North Korea.  Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-biggest mining company,
climbed 1.5 percent in Sydney after metal prices advanced in
London. Honda Motor Co., which gets 80 percent of its sales
overseas, gained 0.5 percent in Tokyo as the yen weakened.
Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s second-largest maker of
semiconductors by market capitalization, fell 0.5 percent in
Seoul.  “An unwavering commitment by the European Union to provide
financial support to debt-laden constituents should help remove
uncertainty surrounding possible debt defaults and the
dismantling of the European Union in the near term,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1 billion at Pengana Capital
Ltd. in Melbourne. “This commitment should help ease
nervousness for investors globally.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  dropped 0.2 percent to 130.31
as of 10:29 a.m. in Tokyo, with seven stocks dropping for every
five that advanced. The gauge rose 0.2 percent yesterday after
reports showed that U.S. employment and consumer sentiment
improved. The measure, which is headed for its third straight
weekly decline, has fallen 3.5 percent from a two-year high on
Nov. 8 through yesterday on speculation China will take  further
steps to tame inflation and on concern that a debt crisis in
Europe will spread.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 