-- Sunway Holdings Surges to 10-Year High on Tycoon Cheah's Merger Proposal
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-11-25T09:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/sunway-holdings-surges-to-10-year-high-on-tycoon-cheah-s-merger-proposal.html
Sunway Holdings Bhd.  rose to its
highest level in more than a decade in Malaysian stock trading,
and Sunway City Bhd. gained after tycoon  Jeffrey Cheah  proposed
a 4.5 billion ringgit ($1.4 billion) merger of the two
construction and property companies.  Shares of  Sunway Holdings  advanced 4 percent to 2.34
ringgit at the 5 p.m. close in Kuala Lumpur, their highest level
since March 2000, outpacing the Malaysian  benchmark stock
index’s  0.5 percent gain. Sunway City rose 2.5 percent to 4.60
ringgit, its highest close since Jan. 14, 2008.  The union will create the Southeast Asian nation’s fourth-
biggest  property group  by market value, according to ECM Libra
Capital Sdn., and is the third proposed merger by Malaysian
developers announced this month as they seek to compete with
rivals and attract investors.  “We view the proposal positively as it will not only yield
operational benefits but also increase the appeal of the merged
entity among investors,” Bernard Ching, an analyst at ECM
Libra, said in a report today. It will create a “stronger
balance sheet to undertake bigger scale projects.”  Malaysia is rebounding from last year’s recession and the
government forecasts economic growth of as much as 7 percent
this year, the fastest in a decade. The government said on Sept.
21 it has identified private-led projects worth $444 billion
that can spur investments and accelerate economic growth.  The plans include opening up government land to private
companies for development, rail projects, and a shopping
district to rival Singapore’s Orchard Road.  More Mergers  The Sunway merger is valued at 4.5 billion ringgit, Kong
Sooi Lin, director of CIMB Investment Bank Bhd., an adviser on
the transaction, said at a media briefing yesterday.  Cheah, who is chairman of both Malaysian companies, said in
a statement yesterday a new entity called Sunway Sdn. was set up
for the cash and stock transaction. Sunway City shareholders
would receive the equivalent of 5.10 ringgit a share, while
Sunway Holdings shareholders would get the equivalent of 2.60
ringgit apiece, he said.  The new company would be listed by the middle of next year,
according to Cheah, who said he would own 44 percent of its
shares. Cheah was ranked Malaysia’s 18th richest person by
Forbes magazine this year with a net worth of $350 million.  IJM Land Bhd.  on Nov. 23 agreed to swap shares with
 Malaysian Resources Corp Bhd.  in a $2 billion deal, while  UEM
Land Holdings Bhd. , the nation’s biggest listed developer, made
a $447 million bid for  Sunrise Bhd.  earlier in the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 