-- Swedish Orphan's Nicklasson to Leave; Rooth Named Interim Chief Executive
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2010-11-25T16:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/swedish-orphan-s-nicklasson-to-leave-rooth-named-interim-chief-executive.html
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB  Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Nicklasson  will leave the company Jan.
1 and the drugmaker will seek a replacement to help it bring new
products to market.  Swedish Orphan Biovitrum is in the process of hiring a
search firm and new chief executive may be in place in about six
months, Chairman  Bo Jesper Hansen  said in a phone interview
today.  Kennet Rooth , the head of sales and marketing who had
planned to step down, will serve as interim CEO, the Stockholm-
based company said in a statement.  Swedish Orphan Biovitrum is seeking a new chief because the
company is moving closer to filing for regulatory approval for
two drugs to treat hemophilia and a product to promote growth in
premature babies, Hansen said. The stock fell the most in a
month in Stockholm.  “The  board of directors  initiated a dialogue with CEO
Martin Nicklasson regarding the profile needed to match the next
phase the company is entering into,” according to the
statement. The board and Nicklasson “have jointly come to the
conclusion that a new leadership is desired for the company
going forward.”  Nicklasson, who also previously headed drug development at
AstraZeneca, will evaluate “non-executive” opportunities,
according to the statement. Swedish Orphan Biovitrum was formed
in January when Biovitrum AB acquired Swedish Orphan
International AB. Nicklasson was named CEO of Biovitrum in 2007.  ‘Mutual Decision’  The decision was “absolutely a mutual decision on a
friendly separation,” Hansen said. “Martin’s conclusion was,
‘Why don’t I step down and we’ll find a new person who can take
this to the next step.’ It was completely undramatic.”  The change was unexpected,  Patrik Ling , analyst at Nordea
Bank, said in a phone interview. He has a  “strong buy”  rating
on the shares.  Swedish Orphan Biovitrum fell 2.4 percent to 39.90 kronor
at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in Stockholm, giving the
company a market value of 8.5 billion kronor ($1.2 billion). The
decline was the biggest since Oct. 27. The shares have risen 44
percent  this year , compared with a 7.5 percent return for the
 Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index .  Third-quarter sales fell 5 percent, hurt by government
austerity measures in  Europe , the company said Oct. 26. Swedish
Orphan lowered its full-year sales and profit forecast.  Investor AB, the holding company of Sweden’s Wallenberg
family, owns 40 percent of the  company’s shares .  Biogen Idec Inc. is Swedish Orphan’s partner on the
hemophilia treatments. One is in the third and final stage of
clinical trials usually needed for regulatory approval, and the
other is about to begin the final phase. Kiobrina, the treatment
for premature infants, also is about to begin the  final stages 
of testing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janina Pfalzer  in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 