-- Swiss Market Index Climbs for Second Day; Adecco, Forbo Shares Advance
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2010-11-25T17:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/swiss-stocks-rise-for-second-day-adecco-dufry-shares-advance-in-zurich.html
Most Swiss stocks climbed for a
second day as European Central Bank council member  Axel Weber 
said governments can increase the size of the European Union-led
bailout fund if necessary to restore confidence in the euro.  Oil services companies  Transocean Ltd.  and  Weatherford
International Ltd.  gained 2.1 percent and 2.5 percent
respectively.  Nestle SA , the world’s largest food company,
surged 1.8 percent.  Forbo Holding AG  soared 3.1 percent after
Credit Suisse Group AG added the stock to a new focus list of
“outperform” stocks.  The  Swiss Market Index  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies increased 0.8 percent to 6,502.14 at the 5:30
p.m. close of trading in Zurich, extending yesterday’s 0.9
percent gain. The SMI plunged 2.1 percent on Nov. 23, the
biggest drop in more than four months, as North Korea fired
artillery shells into South Korea and concern grew that Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis will worsen. The broader Swiss Performance
Index gained 0.9 percent today to 5,806.37.  “The market likes positive noise on the EU’s bailout
ability but the reality is there are no quick solutions to
Europe’s debt problems and equities are still in a correction
phase after a nice autumn rally,” said  Benno Galliker , a trader
at Luzerner Kantonalbank, Switzerland. “Nonetheless there’s a
good chance stocks will rise again into December.”  Rescue Fund  Contagion from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis is spreading
to Spain, sparking concern that the rescue fund set up in May
isn’t large enough to rescue the euro region’s fourth-largest
economy. The premium on Spanish debt over German bunds rose to a
euro-era record yesterday and Portugal’s bonds fell on concern
they will follow Ireland and Greece in asking for a bailout.  “Seven hundred and fifty billion should be enough to
assure the markets,” Weber said at the German embassy in Paris
late yesterday. “If not, it will have to be increased.”  Offshore drilling services companies Transocean and
Weatherford, both of which are dual-listed in Switzerland and
the U.S., surged while the New York Stock Exchange remained
closed for the Thanksgiving holiday. Transocean climbed 2.1
percent to 67.9 francs. Weatherford, which began listing in
Zurich on Nov. 17, rose 2.5 percent to 20.45 francs.  Vevey, Switzerland-based, Nestle climbed 1.8 percent to
56.34 francs.  Adecco SA  advanced 1.1 percent to 58.8 Swiss francs. The
stock rose 0.6 percent yesterday after a report showed U.S.
jobless claims declined to the lowest since 2008.  Forbo, Geberit  Forbo, the world’s largest maker of linoleum, surged 3.1
percent to 555 francs after Credit Suisse analyst  Eugene Klerk 
included the stock in a new “Small and Mid Cap (SMID) Focus
List”. The list is driven by analysts’ highest conviction calls
and consists of 11 stocks.  Geberit AG  surged 2.5 percent to 206.2 francs. Business
prospects at Europe’s biggest maker of toilet flushing systems
are better than six months ago, cash.ch reported, citing an
interview with Chief Executive Albert Baehny.  Valora Holding AG  advanced 1.3 percent after the biggest
Swiss newspaper vendor said it has largely achieved its Valora 4
Growth program objectives and it expects EBIT to reach 160-180
million francs by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 