-- U.K. Buys 2,100 Railcars, Keeps Hitachi Waiting on InterCity Bid
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-11-25T14:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/u-k-to-buy-2-100-railcars-fund-express-train-program-to-ease-congestion.html
Britain’s government will fund 2,100
railcars for delivery over the next 8 1/2 years, including
trains for a new cross-London route, and proceed with an upgrade
of high-speed inter-city lines to western and northeast England.  While  Hitachi Ltd.  was confirmed as preferred bidder for
the Intercity Express Program, a proposal from Bombardier Inc.
is also in the running and the contract won’t be awarded until
next year, the Department for Transport said today. Tokyo-based
Hitachi said it was “disappointed” with the delay.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  is pressing ahead with the
modernization of Britain’s rail network even as he slashes
spending elsewhere to tackle the biggest budget deficit since
World War II. The new carriages, to be introduced by May 2019 as
part of projects costing more than 20 billion pounds ($32
billion), will help “tackle overcrowding on the busiest rail
services,” the transport department said in a statement.  “We can’t stand still,” Transport Secretary  Philip Hammond  said on BBC Radio 4’s Today program. “If we want growth
to continue, if we want London in particular to continue to be a
magnet for international investment and international business
we have to invest in our transport infrastructure.”  Crossrail, Thameslink  The commitment includes 600 railcars for the 16 billion-
pound Crossrail route which will provide the first east-west
service across London by 2018.  The Thameslink line, which spans the U.K. capital from
north to south and is being expanded at a cost of 6 billion
pounds, will also receive 1,200 vehicles, for which the
transport department is considering bids from  Siemens AG  of
Germany and Canada’s  Bombardier . A preferred bidder will be
announced in the first half next year, it said.  Older stock freed up from Thameslink will be deployed on
routes including Liverpool to Manchester and Manchester-
Blackpool in northwest England, which will be electrified.  The commitments announced today also feature 300 new
carriages for other rail franchises, with the exact number that
each will get still to be decided, the government said.  The 7 billion-pound Intercity Express Program, approved by
the previous Labour government before being put on hold amid
cost concerns, will go ahead, today’s statement said, though
Hammond hasn’t decided between two of four competing bids.  The plan includes electrification of the Great Western line
from London Paddington station to the city of Bristol, allowing
replacement of 30-year-old InterCity 125 diesel expresses.  Competing Bid  A revised offer from the Agility Trains group of Hitachi
and  Henderson Group Plc ’s John Laing infrastructure unit remains
the leading proposal, according to the statement, and would
likely feature a new fleet of electric trains which could switch
to diesel traction where necessary.  A rival tender from Montreal-based Bombardier features all-
electric trains which would need to be hauled by new diesel
locomotives where the electric wires end, the government said.  “Hitachi continues to see the U.K. as one of our important
European markets,” the Tokyo-based company said in a statement.
“However we are disappointed that there is yet no decision on
our bid for the IEP. We will be continuing our talks with the
DfT and will consider our position in the light of these.”  The Labour party’s transport spokeswoman,  Maria Eagle , said
Cameron’s coalition government had “ducked the big decisions” in
delaying the IEP contract award and failing to clarify its plans
for electrification beyond Bristol to south Wales on the Midland
main line from London to Sheffield.  The Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition has already
backed the construction of the U.K.’s second high-speed rail
line connecting London with Manchester and Leeds.  The government has also sold a 30-year concession to run
the existing high-speed route between the Channel Tunnel and
London’s St. Pancras International Station to a group of
Canadian investment funds led by Borealis Infrastructure
Management for 2.1 billion pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  