-- OFT May Pass on Review of News Corp.’s BSkyB Bid, Lawyers Say
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-11-25T14:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/u-k-regulator-may-pass-on-review-of-news-corp-s-bskyb-bid-lawyers-say.html
U.K. antitrust regulators won’t seek
their own review of  News Corp.’s  proposed acquisition of  British
Sky Broadcasting Group Plc  while Business Secretary  Vince Cable 
conducts a separate probe, lawyers and analysts said.  The Office of Fair Trading has until tomorrow to ask the
European Union for permission to take over the antitrust review
of the 7.8 billion-pound ($12.4 billion) acquisition.  “Media and public interest issues in the U.K. are already
being dealt with” by media regulator Ofcom and the OFT is
unlikely to demand that it rule on the deal’s commercial
aspects, Matthew Hall, a Brussels-based lawyer with McGuire
Woods LLP, said in an e-mail.  Cable has directed Ofcom to review separately whether the
takeover of Britain’s largest pay-TV operator by the owner of
four of the biggest-selling U.K. newspapers would give too much
media control to  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. U.K. newspapers,
the British Broadcasting Corp., phone company BT Group Plc and
the Church of England have called for the bid to be challenged.  “Getting a third agency involved would probably serve to
confuse things further,” said  Patrick Yau , an analyst at KBC
Peel Hunt in London. “It will just be a twin-track process.”  News Corp., attempting to gain from the steady subscription
business of Britain’s biggest pay-TV operator, asked the
European Union on Nov. 3 to approve its proposed bid for the 61
percent of BSkyB that it doesn’t already own. BSkyB in June
rejected the initial 700 pence a share offer, saying it was too
low. The companies are seeking regulatory approval before a new
offer is made.  T-Mobile, France Telecom  Under EU law, national regulators are allowed to request
jurisdiction over an antitrust case when the transaction is
primarily in their country. The OFT in February asked the EU for
permission to investigate the merger of  France Telecom SA  and
Deutsche Telekom AG’s British units.  Frank Shepherd, a spokesman for the Office of Fair Trading,
and  Amelia Torres , a spokeswoman for the European Commission,
declined to comment. A spokeswoman for News Corp. and  Bella Vuillermoz , a spokeswoman for Isleworth, England-based BSkyB,
also declined to comment.  The antitrust issues in the case “are relatively
straightforward” said  Simon Holmes , a lawyer at SJ Berwin LLP
in London, minimizing the need for the OFT to take the case from
EU regulators.  Holmes said in a telephone interview it was unlikely that
EU regulators would open an in-depth investigation and that
“any difficulties that may require a remedy are more to do with
the plurality issues which are being looked at by Ofcom.”  December Deadlines  Ofcom must decide by Dec. 31 whether to recommend a probe
by the U.K.’s Competition Commission that may last up to six
months. The OFT has a limited role in Ofcom’s review as an
adviser on competition issues. The European Commission has a
Dec. 8 deadline to rule on the antitrust issues.  BSkyB said earlier this week that the Ofcom should restrict
its review to the effects on national news. Sky News, BSkyB’s
24-hour news channel, only has a “small” 7 percent market share
of the U.K. national TV news market, the company said in a
submission to Ofcom.  European regulators this month asked television companies
whether the deal would limit their access to viewers and raise
advertising prices. The EU document didn’t include questions
about the effect of the merger on the news media.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 