-- Lufthansa Short-Haul Revamp Adds 2,000 Slim-Line Seats
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-11-25T17:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/lufthansa-to-cram-in-2-000-more-seats-on-planes-by-using-slimmer-backrests.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG , Europe’s
second-biggest airline, said it will add almost 2,000 more seats
to its single-aisle fleet by the end of next year by switching
to berths with slimmer backrests.  The seats will allow Lufthansa to add as many as two extra
rows to each plane, equivalent to 12 passengers, while boosting
legroom by up to 5 centimeters (2 inches), spokesman  Jan Baerwalde  said by telephone. The overhaul involves about 200
aircraft which can currently carry about 33,000 people, he said.  The revamp, which covers both business and coach classes,
is the first for Lufthansa’s short-haul fleet since 2006. The
Cologne, Germany-based carrier will also offer free snacks on
its shortest flights for the first time in 15 years as it seeks
to return fares to pre-slump levels and compete with discount
carriers including  Ryanair Holdings Plc  and Air Berlin Plc.  “This is a smart idea to lower unit costs,” said  Per-Ola Hellgren , an analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in
Stuttgart with a “buy” recommendation on Lufthansa stock.
“Battling low-cost airlines forces them to cut ticket prices and
more efficient use of planes helps compensate for that loss.”  Lufthansa  rose  2.4 percent to 16.93 euros as of the 5:30
p.m. close in Frankfurt. The stock is up 44 percent this year.  New Colors  The seats, to be unveiled at a presentation on Dec. 15,
will offer a more ergonomic design, new color scheme and be
“very similar” to those that Lufthansa unit  Austrian Airlines 
installed in two planes this year, Baerwalde said today. A new
service concept will be part of the revamp, he said, declining
to give details or reveal the cost of the project.  Lufthansa is separately spending as much as 400 million
euros through 2013 to overhaul cabins on wide-body planes
serving more than 80 long-haul routes following the introduction
of its first Airbus SAS A380 superjumbo in May.  Ryanair said on Oct. 27 that it will cut 30 percent of
flights at Frankfurt Hahn airport next summer, citing the
introduction of an air-travel tax it says will make Germany an
“uncompetitive tourist destination.”  Air Berlin  said last week it will cut capacity by 5 percent
as the tax renders some routes non-viable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  