-- Lula-Meirelles Redux Has Tombini Raising Rates on Rousseff: Brazil Credit
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2010-11-25T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/lula-meirelles-redux-has-tombini-raising-rates-on-rousseff-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian President-elect Dilma
Rousseff’s nomination of  Alexandre Tombini  to head the central
bank is prompting investors to bet on an interest-rate increase
in her first month in office.  Traders expect the central bank to raise the benchmark rate
at least 25 basis points to 11 percent by January, according to
interest-rate futures due that month. As recently as Nov. 19,
the contracts indicated less than a full quarter-point increase.
U.S. interest-rate futures show a 10 percent chance the Federal
Reserve will raise its target rate to 0.5 percent in January
from between zero and 0.25 percent.  Tombini, who will replace  Henrique Meirelles  if confirmed
by the Senate, will take over as central bank president after a
27 percent jump in government spending in the first nine months
of the year helped push the  inflation  rate to the highest since
May. Meirelles raised the key rate, known as Selic, in President
 Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s first month office in 2003, when
consumer prices rose as much as 17 percent.  “Many people are betting that the interest-rate hike is
going to happen quickly,”  Felipe Brandao , an emerging-markets
analyst at ICAP Brasil SA in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone
interview. “The inflation numbers are high now. The market
thinks that Tombini will be forced to increase the Selic.”  Higher prices for food, including beans and corn, helped
push the annual  inflation  rate in Latin America’s biggest
economy to a five-month high of 5.2 percent in October. Consumer
prices rose 0.86 percent in the month through mid-November, the
fastest pace in nine months, the national statistics agency said
Nov. 23.  Rate Futures  Yields on the 2011 rate futures climbed to 10.70 percent
this week, the highest since Sept. 1. The January 2012 contract
surged 20 basis points, or 0.20 percentage point, to 11.86
percent this week, showing traders expect the central bank to
raise borrowing costs to about 13 percent by the end of next
year from 10.75 percent today, according to Bloomberg data.
Meirelles raised the rate 200 basis points this year to prevent
Latin America’s biggest economy from overheating.  Rousseff, who kept Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  at his
post, appointed Tombini, 46, as central bank president
yesterday, saying she will continue her predecessor’s economic
policies. Tombini, who has a doctorate in economics from the
 University of Illinois  at Urbana-Champaign, has served as a
central bank board member since 2005 and previously was the
senior adviser to Brazil’s executive director at the
International Monetary Fund.  ‘Tightening’  “The pressure on futures rates is because the market
believes Tombini will carry out a monetary tightening if it’s
necessary,”  Zeina Latif , a senior economist at RBS Securities
Inc. in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview.  Tombini declined to comment on the outlook for interest
rates at a press conference in Brasilia after his appointment
yesterday.  The  budget deficit  widened to the equivalent of 3.4 percent
of gross domestic product in August, the biggest in five months,
before narrowing to 2.4 percent of gross domestic product in
September, when the government reaped a revenue windfall from
its sale of oil reserves to state-run  Petroleo Brasileiro SA .  Rousseff’s efforts to restrain public spending will allow
the central bank to cut the benchmark rate next year, Mantega
said in an interview on Nov. 13.  Mantega, speaking to reporters in Brasilia yesterday, said
the government will “make an effort” to reduce spending next
year.  Yield Spread  The yield on interest-rate futures contract due January
2017 plunged 18 basis points yesterday to 12.11 percent on
speculation Mantega will curb spending growth and slow
inflation.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 12 basis points to
177, according to JPMorgan Chase Co.  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell two basis points
to 112, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-default swaps
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real rose 0.8 percent yesterday to 1.7216 per dollar.  Standard & Poor’s may increase Brazil’s credit rating
because of strong economic growth and a “well capitalized”
banking sector, said managing director  Milena Zaniboni . S&P has
kept Brazil’s foreign debt rating at BBB-, the lowest
investment-grade level, since 2008 and has a stable outlook for
the credit.  Economic Growth  Brazil’s economy will expand 7.6 percent this year, the
fastest pace in more than two decades, according to the median
forecast in a central bank survey of about 100 economists
published Nov. 22.  Lula appointed Meirelles in 2003 to replace  Arminio Fraga 
at the start of his term. Meirelles raised the overnight lending
rate a half-percentage point to 25.5 percent, the highest level
since April 1999, in his first month in office to slow inflation
after the real plunged 35 percent the year before.  Brazilian economists raised their  forecast  for inflation
this year for the 10th consecutive week. Consumer prices will
rise 5.58 percent this year and 5.15 percent in 2011, up from
5.48 percent and 5.05 percent last week, according to the median
forecast in the central bank survey.  The central bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent plus or
minus two percentage points.  “The stated mandate is to have inflation remain within the
target zone and the full expectation is that action will be
taken to maintain that target rate,” said  Michael Roche , an
emerging-market strategist at MF Global Holdings Ltd., a New
York-based broker. “There’s nothing in the new central bank
president’s background to suggest otherwise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Josue Leonel  in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  