-- Hungary Follows Argentina in Pension-Fund Ultimatum, `Nightmare' for Some
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-11-25T14:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/hungary-follows-argentina-in-pension-fund-ultimatum-nightmare-for-some.html
Hungary is giving its citizens an
ultimatum: move your private-pension fund assets to the state or
lose your state pension.  Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  announced the policy
yesterday, escalating a government drive to bring 3 trillion
forint ($14.6 billion) of privately managed pension assets under
state control to reduce the budget deficit and public debt.
Workers who opt against returning to the state system stand to
lose 70 percent of their pension claim.  “This is effectively a nationalization of private pension
funds,”  David Nemeth , an economist at ING Groep NV in Budapest,
said in a phone interview. “It’s the nightmare scenario.”  Hungary is rolling back pension changes implemented more
than a decade ago as countries from Poland to Lithuania find
themselves squeezed by policies designed to limit long-term
liabilities by shifting workers into private funds. Now the cost
is swelling debt and  deficit  levels at a time when the European
Union is demanding greater fiscal discipline.  Hungary, the most indebted eastern member of the EU, is
following the example of Argentina, which in 2001 confiscated
about $3.2 billion of pension savings before the country stopped
servicing its debt. The government in Buenos Aires nationalized
the $24 billion industry two years ago to compensate for falling
tax revenue after a 2005 debt restructuring.  Bond Target Missed  Hungary failed to sell the planned amount of debt at an
auction today as the forint weakened and bond yields climbed to
higher than in June, when the country roiled world markets by
raising the specter of default. Yields may rise “quite
significantly” as the exit of private pension funds will lead
to dropping demand for local debt,  Attila Eszes , a bond trader
at KBC Groep NV in Budapest, said in a phone interview.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  plans to use pension funds to
pay current government pensions and reduce debt as he seeks to
cut the budget deficit to less than the EU limit of 3 percent of
gross domestic product next year from a targeted 3.8 percent
this year. The bloc last month rebuffed a request from nine
members, including Hungary, Poland and Sweden, to discount
deficit figures by the amount shifted to private managers.  ‘Huge Hole’  “There is a huge hole in the state pension system fund,”
Matolcsy told reporters in Parliament. “The government fund’s
revenue from pension contributions is 900 billion forint less
than its expenditure. This is unsustainable.”  In 1998, Hungary required workers to put a portion of their
pension contributions into privately managed funds that were
designed to supplement state pensions. Today, about 3 million
people have money in the private plans.  The funds’ assets will be automatically shifted to the
state system on Jan. 31, unless members specifically opt out.
Those who decide to remain in the private funds will lose their
government pension after future contributions even as the state
will continue to claim 70 percent of pension contributions paid
after the individual, Matolcsy said.  “This is open blackmail,” Julianna Baba, president of the
Stabilitas Penztarszovetseg, which groups private pension funds,
said in a phone interview today. “It’s a rigged deal.”  Court Challenge  The association is filing a motion at the Constitutional
Court to have the law annulled. It says the pension fund plan
violates constitutional guarantees against discrimination, for
the rule of law, social security, the defense of property and
human dignity.  Other eastern EU members are also seeking to cut deficits
with the help of pension funds.  Polish Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  said yesterday that the
country may issue long-term pension bonds to compensate private
funds for funneling some employee contributions to the budget.  The plan is “one of these ideas that guarantee safety of
future pensioners and the budget without a revolution in the
pension system,” Tusk said in parliament. “A concrete proposal
will be presented next week.”  Lithuania reduced contributions to private funds last year,
and Estonia announced in April 2009 that it would freeze
pension-fund contributions through the end of this year. The
government in Tallinn is reinstating partial contributions to
pension funds from January.  In Bulgaria, private vocational pension funds will put 20
percent of their assets under state control to cover early
retirement until 2014 to curb a widening deficit. This amounts
to 100 million lev, or $68 million. Such retirement funds cover
about 100,000 workers in specific professions who are forced to
retire early.  More Risky  Hungary’s pension changes are making the country more risky
for investors, according to market reactions to the government’s
plan. The forint weakened 2.1 percent versus the euro so far
this month, making it the world’s worst-performing currency for
that period.  The government today sold 30 billion forint of 12-month
Treasury bills, 10 billion forint less than planned, as the
average yield rose to 6.05 percent from 5.94 percent at the
previous auction on two weeks ago. Government bonds tumbled,
lifting the yield on the forint note on the benchmark 10-year
bond to 7.81 percent at 2:42 p.m., the highest since June 7.
Bond yields move inversely to the price.  ‘Long-Term Risks’  “The pension system changes will increase long-term risks,
while short-term gains such as lower public debt and deficit
will prove illusory, if the economy stays weak,”  Michal Dybula ,
an economist at BNP Paribas in Warsaw said in an e-mailed note.
“The proposed changes on pensions also increase the risk of
rating downgrades, since Hungary’s structural fiscal position
will not improve.”  In Hungary, employers set aside 24 percent of each worker’s
salary for pension contributions and employees are required to
pay 10 percent. Forcing workers back into the state system means
the government will retain control of all that money, rather
than transferring a portion to the private funds.  Under the rules announced yesterday, workers who choose to
remain in the private pension funds will lose the social
security contributions made by their employers, Matolcsy said.
The government would continue to transfer contributions made by
employees to the funds, he said.  “It’s unprecedented in Europe that a government is
threatening to kick its own citizens out of the state pension
system,”  Zoltan Torok , a Budapest-based economist at Raiffeisen
Bank International AG, said in a phone interview. “It’s
probably enough to ensure that no one is going to stay in the
private pension fund system in his or her right mind.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  