-- Hungary Fails to Sell Planned Amount at Debt Auction on Pension `Risks'
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-11-25T12:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/hungary-fails-to-sell-planned-amount-at-debt-auction-on-pension-risks-.html
Hungary failed to sell the planned
amount of debt at an auction today as the forint weakened and
bond yields climbed to higher than in June, when the country
roiled world markets by raising the spectre of default.  The state debt management agency sold 30 billion forint
($144 million) of 12-month Treasury bills, 10 billion forint
less than planned, as the average yield rose to 6.05 percent
from 5.94 percent at the previous auction on Nov. 11. Bids fell
to 64.5 billion forint versus 89.3 billion forint at the last
sale, according to results on the government’s Bloomberg page.  “I expected something much worse for today’s auction,”
 Attila Eszes , a bond trader at  KBC Groep NV ’s K&H Bank
Nyrt. unit in Budapest said in a phone interview. “As private
pension funds will gradually cease to represent a demand factor,
financing costs have room to rise quite significantly.”  Hungary’s government gave its citizens an ultimatum
yesterday to move their pension savings back to the state from
privately managed funds or lose their government pension. The
directive is part of the government’s effort to do away with the
mandatory private pension system and move 3 trillion forint of
assets managed by the funds into the state budget to reduce the
 deficit  and public debt.  Government bonds tumbled, lifting the yield on the forint
note due February 2015 to 7.642 percent at 1 p.m. in Budapest,
its highest since January. The yield, which moves inversely to
the bond’s price, has advanced 93 basis points since the end of
October, heading for the worst month since March 2009. The
forint weakened 2.1 percent versus the euro so far this month,
making it the world’s worst-performing currency for that period.  ‘Illusory’  “The pension system changes will increase long-term risks,
while short-term gains such as lower public debt and deficit
will prove illusory, if the economy stays weak,”  Michal Dybula ,
an economist at BNP Paribas in Warsaw said in an e-mailed note.
“The proposed changes on pensions also increase the risk of
rating downgrades, since Hungary’s structural fiscal position
will not improve. Indeed, it could actually deteriorate over the
medium-and long run.”  Hungary is rolling back pension changes implemented more
than a decade ago as countries from Poland to Lithuania find
themselves squeezed by policies designed to limit long-term
liabilities by shifting workers into private funds. The
government is ending mandatory private pension funds, which have
about 3 million members, after the European Union rebuffed a
request by nine member states to be allowed to lower debt and
deficit figures by the amount of transfers to the funds.  “We believe a multi-month yield curve steepening will be
the name of the game in Hungary,” said  Gyula Toth , an emerging-
market strategist at UniCredit in Vienna, said in a report
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  