-- UniCredit Bets on Czech Republic as Part of East European Push
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2010-11-25T13:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/unicredit-bets-on-the-czech-republic-as-part-of-push-into-eastern-europe.html
UniCredit SpA , Italy’s biggest bank,
is accelerating its expansion in the Czech Republic, where it is
behind rivals such as Societe Generale’s Komercni Banka AS.  The bank plans to add at least 40 branches to the existing
60 and to expand its franchise network to 90 outlets, especially
in smaller cities,  Jiri Kunert , the chief executive officer of
UniCredit’s Czech unit, said in an interview in his Prague
office yesterday.  “UniCredit is serious about the region,” said Kunert, 57.
“Retail banking will continue to grow.”  The Czech Republic didn’t have to bail out any banks during
the global financial crisis and economic growth outstrips that
of many neighbors, Kunert said.  Federico Ghizzoni , who replaced  Alessandro Profumo  as
UniCredit’s CEO in September, aims to outline a new business
plan to the board by the end of the year, allocating more
capital to central and eastern Europe, where third-quarter
profit more than tripled.  “The Czech Republic is a good country to invest in,” said
Karim  Bertoni , a Geneva-based fund manager who helps to manage
$25 billion at Banque Syz & Co. “The standard of living is
quite high and the banking system is not so developed.”  Total Assets  KBC Groep NV’s CSOB is the Czech Republic’s No. 1 bank,
with total  assets  of 753 billion koruna ($42 billion) as of the
end of 2009, followed by Erste Group Bank AG’s Ceska Sporitelna
with 735 billion koruna and Societe Generale SA’s Komercni Banka
with 605 billion, according to data from the Czech Banking
Association. UniCredit is fourth with 265 billion.  UniCredit’s expansion in retail banking could be
“negative” for the shares of Komercni, which has 17 percent of
the Czech banking market, Raiffeisen analyst Stefan Maxian said
today in a note to investors.  “While such a move demonstrates the attractiveness of the
Czech market, increasing aggressiveness of UniCredit might lead
to margin pressure at the top three banks,” said Maxian, who
has a “buy” recommendation on Komercni shares.  UniCredit is the biggest lender in emerging Europe as a
whole, with 107.6 billion euros ($147 billion) of assets, ahead
of Erste Group, Raiffeisenbank International AG and Societe
Generale.  UniCredit was a latecomer to the Czech market with its 2002
purchase of 134 year-old Zivnostenska Banka, the former
communist government’s trade-financing arm. KBC bought CSOB,
then the country’s fourth-biggest bank, in 1999 and merged it
with Investicni a Postovni Banka the following year, creating
the largest Czech bank. Erste acquired Ceska Sporitelna in 2000
and SocGen bought a controlling stake in Komercni in 2001.  Global Crisis  Countries such as Turkey and Russia had to cope with rising
levels of bad debt and foreign-currency loan defaults during the
global financial crisis. Non-performing loans in the Czech
Republic make up about 5 percent of the total this year,
compared with 10 to 15 percent at the biggest Russian banks at
the end of the first quarter, according to Raiffeisen figures.  Czech gross domestic product will probably grow 2.8 percent
next year and 3.2 percent in 2012, according to the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development. That compares with the
OECD’s euro-area growth forecasts of 1.7 percent and 2 percent,
respectively.  “People’s wealth will keep growing, so the demand for
banking products will continue to rise,” Kunert said at his
wood-panelled, 19th-century office in the center of Prague. “We
are able to test certain products that can then be expanded into
other countries in the region.”  Common Platform  The Czech division developed and implemented a common
Internet banking platform for the whole of eastern Europe that
enables clients in different countries to control accounts with
a single set of security passwords.  It’s also working on a system for paying bills via mobile
phones that can be tailored to other east European markets. The
bank will hire about 300 people by 2014, Kunert said.  UniCredit will probably leave smaller east European
countries such as the Baltic republics, where it doesn’t have a
significant market share, said  Aldo Comi , a London-based banking
analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd.  That will free resources to cement its position in big
emerging markets such as Poland and Russia, and to develop the
Czech retail banking division,’’ he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Paris at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  