-- UPS Fights ‘Fire With Fire’ to Fill Pension Gap: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-11-26T17:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/ups-fights-fire-with-fire-as-borrowers-fill-pension-gap-credit-markets.html
Companies facing the biggest pension
deficit since at least 1994 are selling bonds at the fastest
pace in more than seven years to plug the hole, betting that
future returns will exceed their borrowing costs.  United Parcel Service Inc., the world’s largest package-
delivery business, Dow Chemical Co., Northrop Grumman Corp. and
PPG Industries Inc. sold at least $5.25 billion of investment-
grade U.S. corporate bonds in November to fund their pensions,
making it the busiest month since June 2003, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Federal Reserve ’s effort to hold down interest rates to
stimulate the economy has caused corporate pension obligations,
which are pegged to bond yields, to rise by $105.8 billion this
year to $1.44 trillion as of October, according to  Milliman Inc. 
Now, companies are taking advantage of borrowing costs at about
the lowest on record as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. says interest
rates will rise as the global economy recovers.  “They’re fighting fire with fire,”  John Lonski , chief
economist at Moody’s Capital Markets Group in New York, said in
a telephone interview. “They’re being victimized by low bond
yields, so why not go ahead and use them as an offset?”  Investment-grade corporate bond yields, used as a benchmark
to determine future corporate liabilities to retirees, fell to
3.53 percent on Nov. 4, the lowest ever, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show.  Funding Decline  Corporate pensions in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index with
about $1 trillion in assets are 77 percent funded this year,
down from 82 percent at the end of 2009, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch said in an Oct. 29 report. Few, if any, borrowers have had
their credit ratings cut for issuing debt to fund pension
obligations, Lonski said.  Yields may not move substantially higher over the next
several years, he said. “They’re willing to make a gamble that
future returns will exceed the current cost of debt,” he said.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt rose 1 basis point to 170 basis points, or 1.7
percentage points, the highest since Oct. 7, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
Yields averaged 3.714 percent.  The cost of insuring bonds sold by Portugal jumped 31.5
basis points to 507.5, while those on Spain soared 21 basis
points to an all-time high of 320.5 according to data provider
CMA.  Spain, Portugal  Speculation is mounting that Portugal will be forced to
accept aid to stop contagion spreading to Spain. Ireland was
made to ask for a rescue on Nov. 21, eight days after officials
were pressed on an ECB conference call to accept emergency
funds.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, added 2.5 basis points to a mid-
price of 96 basis points as of 11:55 a.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company or country fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point on a contract protecting $10 million of debt from
default for five years is equivalent to $1,000 a year.  The $380 billion pension shortfall is the biggest since at
least 1994,  David Bianco , chief U.S. equity strategist at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch in New York, said in last month’s
report.  Goldman Rate Prediction  The Fed has kept its benchmark rate in a range of zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008 to stimulate the economy and
reopen debt markets after the worst credit seizure since the
Great Depression. This month the central bank said it would buy
more Treasuries to keep interest rates lower and prevent
deflation.  Goldman Sachs’s rates team expects longer-maturity
Treasuries to rise “on economic recovery, both in the U.S. and
globally, and the normalization of U.S. inflation
expectations,” strategists  Charles Himmelberg ,  Alberto Gallo ,
 Lotfi Karoui  and  Annie Chu  wrote in a Nov. 19 report. Yields on
10-year Treasuries will rise to 3.3 percent by the end of next
year, the New York-based firm said.  “If you truly believe that rates are going up, you should
be issuing debt,” said  Gordon Latter , a managing director at
RBC Global Asset Management in Minneapolis. Latter said his firm
is proposing that clients issue bonds to help fill pension
deficits.  Pension Funding Gap  The gap between the assets of the 100 largest company
pensions and their projected liabilities has improved for two
months after widening by $108 billion in August to a $459.8
billion deficit, the biggest shortfall in at least a decade,
Seattle-based actuarial and consulting firm Milliman said in a
statement.  The pension plans have a median 8.1 percent expected rate
of return, Milliman said. During the past 12 months, assets in
the plans returned 11.4 percent while the funding status dropped
$21 billion, “due primarily” to lower discount rates.  Getting an 8.1 percent return is “very difficult” given
recent Treasury yields, said  Ashish Shah , co-head of global
credit investment at AllianceBernstein LP in New York.  “You’d probably have to take a greater amount of risk than
most plans feel comfortable with to get that kind of return
today,” Shah said in a telephone interview.  Less Flexibility  The S&P 500 Index has gained 9.4 percent this year,
including reinvested dividends. U.S. corporate bonds have
returned 9.9 percent, and Treasuries have handed investors 7.2
percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  While replacing a pension liability with corporate debt may
reduce volatility, issuing bonds may restrict a company’s
financial flexibility, said Jon Waite, a director and chief
actuary at investment manager SEI, which oversees more than $164
billion in assets in Oaks, Pennsylvania.  “It’s a real juggling act for the” chief financial
officer, Waite said in a telephone interview.  Companies also are using their cash stockpiles to fund
pension obligations because they’re skittish about economic
growth and aren’t inclined to hire more workers or invest in
their businesses, said Tom Meyers, head of client portfolio
management at Chicago-based Legal & General Investment America,
which oversees about $18 billion.  “It’s not surprising that contributions to plans have been
taking place at a very serious and meaningful rate,” Meyers
said in a telephone interview. “Issuing bonds to fund pension
plans, it strikes us as opportunistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  