-- Westinghouse Expects Additional AP1000 Nuclear Reactor Orders From China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-25T09:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/westinghouse-expects-more-reactor-orders-from-china-on-clean-energy-demand.html
Westinghouse Electric Co., owned by
Toshiba Corp., expects additional orders for its third-
generation AP1000 reactors from China after selling four units
three years ago to the world’s fastest-growing nuclear market.  “There are going to be more AP1000s and the success of the
current ones will determine that,”  Jack Allen , Westinghouse’s
president for Asia, said in an interview in Beijing today,
adding talks haven’t formally begun. “There are no guarantees.
Westinghouse is working very hard with customers here.”  China and India are leading the biggest atomic expansion
since the decade after the 1970s oil crisis to cut pollution and
power economies. Under a 2007 accord, Westinghouse is jointly
building four AP1000 reactors with companies led by China
National Nuclear Corp., and has transferred nuclear technology
as it seeks to forge a lasting partnership with future rivals.  “It seems entirely reasonable to me to say that the
company will get a lot more out of China,” said  Rajesh Panjwani ,
an analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in Hong Kong.
“Westinghouse has been selling nuclear technology in Korea for
almost 20 years and it still needs Westinghouse’s assistance.”  China’s 11 existing nuclear power generating units all use
second-generation technology, the official Xinhua News Agency
said on July 22. The nation plans at least 60 new reactors by
2020, Xu Yuming, executive director of the China Nuclear Energy
Association, said on July 6.  ‘Complex Technology’  The  AP1000  offers “unequaled safety” and is the most
economical reactor in the world, according to Westinghouse’s
website. China started operating its first commercial nuclear
plant in 1994.  “About half of the reactors planned in China are based on
the AP1000 and this is very complex technology to master,”
according to Panjwani. “This is a case of Westinghouse deciding
to get involved in the biggest nuclear power market in the world
and also assuming that it will take China some considerable time
to fully master this technology.”  Westinghouse has handed over more than 75,000 technical
documents to its Chinese customers, mainly government-run State
Nuclear Power Technology Corp., under a technology transfer
accord with China, Allen said.  China is also in talks with Westinghouse’s rival,  Areva SA ,
on two third-generation European pressurized water reactors, or
EPRs. Discussions are almost complete, Chief Executive Officer
Anne Lauvergeon said yesterday.  Chinese Brand  “While I respect that China will be a very strong
competitor, I believe they will also be a strong partner for
us,” Allen of Westinghouse said. “We worked with France, in my
early career, we worked with the Italians, we worked with the
Spanish, we worked with Koreans, we worked with the Japanese, to
transfer technology, and all are strong competitors. Still we
continue to play a role in development of” nuclear technology.  China National Nuclear, the country’s biggest atomic plant
builder, is seeking to construct a nuclear plant in Argentina,
President Sun Qin said in July. The state-controlled company,
known as CNNC, said in March it has constructed two reactors in
Pakistan and signed in February an agreement to finance two
additional units.  “CNNC has done a tremendous amount of reactor development
and design, and without Westinghouse,” Allen said. Pan Jianming,
spokesman at Beijing-based CNNC, couldn’t be reached for comment
by telephone at his office.  China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group, the nation’s second-
largest builder, said in April it will explore opportunities to
reactors overseas with Electricite de France SA and Areva.  In November 2007, Areva agreed to sell two third-generation
European pressurized water reactors, or EPRs, to China Guangdong
Nuclear. Chinese nuclear builders’ grasp of the technology is
“very worrying” for European companies, Lauvergeon told the
French Senate yesterday. She also said Chinese companies are
more efficient.  -- Wang Ying  in Beijing. With assistance from  John Duce  in Hong
Kong and  Tsuyoshi Inajima  in Tokyo. Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  Amit Prakash .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 