-- L’Oreal, Nestle Beauty-Pill Joint Venture Inneov to Enter China
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2010-11-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/wrinkle-hair-loss-pills-gain-popularity-as-l-oreal-venture-targets-china.html
Inneov , the maker of beauty pills
owned jointly by  L’Oreal SA  and  Nestle SA , plans to enter China
next year and may also expand in Latin America as more people
turn to dietary supplements to treat skin and hair conditions.  “There is a huge opportunity in Asia,” said  Brigitte Liberman , head of L’Oreal’s Active Cosmetics unit, which
operates Inneov. Nutritional supplements for skin and hair, or
nutricosmetics, are “part of the routine of Asian women.”
Inneov may enter Chile and Argentina, she said in an interview
in Paris, declining to say when.  L’Oreal, the world’s largest cosmetics maker, gets about a
third of  sales  from markets such as Asia and Latin America and
aims to increase that proportion to as much as 60 percent in 10
years. Asia accounts for about 1 billion euros ($1.33 billion)
of nutricosmetic sales, or half the world’s total, while Europe
and the Americas each generate around 500 million euros, Inneov
estimates.  Entering new markets is essential if nutricosmetics are to
become more than a niche product, according to Ewa Hudson, an
analyst at  Euromonitor International . European consumers have
been slow to adopt beauty supplements because they don’t
understand what the ingredients can do for them, she said.  “In Asia it’s a very different story,” Hudson said.
“There are loads and loads of beauty-from-within products.”  Saggy Skin  L’Oreal, based in Paris, and Nestle, the world’s largest
food company, formed Inneov in 2002 as “an alliance of
expertise,” Liberman said. The joint venture, whose treatments
include  Fermete  pills for wrinkles and saggy skin, sells in 16
European countries, plus Brazil and Mexico. Liberman declined to
provide revenue and profit figures, citing company policy.  Inneov, which competes with  Sanofi Aventis SA ’s Laboratoire
Oenobiol, introduced an anti-dandruff treatment last month to
add to its arsenal of 12 clinically tested products, which are
priced between 20 euros and 30 euros a packet. The company’s
sales are climbing as much as 10 percent in some countries in
Europe, Liberman said, declining to specify which.  About 20 percent of women in Europe use beauty pills for
conditions such as cellulite and hair loss, Liberman estimates.
That compares with 5 percent to 10 percent of men, she said.
Overall, demand for nutricosmetics is increasing as people
become more health conscious, the executive said.  Tomato Diet  A decade ago, only 20 percent of women in Europe were aware
nutrition had an impact on their beauty compared with 80 percent
now, Liberman said. “It’s a very positive trend for us.” Half
the world’s population now lives in cities, leading to more
“imperfections” such as oily skin, while pollution is causing
more allergies, she said.  While Inneov’s products are derived from natural sources,
like the lycopene found in tomatoes, the dosage of ingredients
required to generate results makes it hard to do so without a
supplement, Liberman said.  The executive declined to say which product Inneov would
introduce first to China. Fermete and the Hair Mass range, which
aims to counter hair loss and thinning hair among women, are
Inneov’s best-selling products.  Sales at L’Oreal’s Active Cosmetics unit, which includes
the Inneov, Vichy, La Roche Posay, Skinceuticals and Sanoflore
brands, climbed 8.3 percent to 1.08 billion euros in the nine
months ended September. The unit should have a “decent” fourth
quarter, Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Paul Agon  said Oct. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 