-- Yuan Forecasts at Triple Forward Rates Luring Western Asset: China Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2010-11-26T07:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/yuan-forecasts-at-triple-forward-rates-luring-western-asset-china-credit.html
Pioneer Investment Management Ltd.
and Western Asset Management Co. are increasing bets on the yuan
appreciating as analysts forecast the currency will gain at
triple the rate reflected in prices of forwards contracts.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards weakened 0.3 percent
to 6.5463 per dollar today in Hong Kong, implying the yuan will
strengthen 1.6 percent from the Shanghai spot rate of 6.6554,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the smallest 
advance indicated since Sept. 20. The currency will appreciate
6.1 percent to 6.2700 by the end of 2011, according to the
median estimate of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank will allow a 7 percent annual pace of yuan
appreciation through June and raise interest rates four times as
it tackles the fastest inflation in two years, Standard
Chartered Plc forecast this week. China’s central bank has
allowed the yuan to climb 2.6 percent since a dollar peg ended
in June, raised borrowing costs in October for the first time
since 2007 and last week increased banks’ reserve-ratio
requirements for the fifth time this year.  “China would like to calm upward pressure on inflation,
reduce excess liquidity and capital inflows, so we can expect
more to come on the reserve-ratio side, on the rate side and on
the currency side,” said  Andreas Koenig , a senior currency fund
manager in Dublin at Pioneer, which manages 185 billion euros
($246 billion). “Demand for yuan will remain and probably even
intensify.”  Hu’s Visit  Pioneer and Western Asset, which together oversee $715
billion, say they have added to their holdings of non-
deliverable forwards this month. Robert Minikin, a senior
foreign-exchange strategist at Standard Chartered in Hong Kong,
on Nov. 24 recommended investors buy three-month contracts,
noting China may let yuan gains accelerate before President Hu
Jintao visits Washington in January.  Hu’s visit “will be an important time to look at exactly
what the quantum of progress has been” on China’s currency
reforms, U.S. National Security Adviser Thomas Donilon said Nov.
14. President Barack Obama said the previous day that the yuan
was “undervalued,” speaking after Group of 20 nations’ talks
in Seoul.  The yuan has strengthened 25 percent versus the dollar in
the past decade, outpacing gains of 13 percent for the Brazilian
real and 2.9 percent for India’s rupee. Russia’s ruble weakened
11 percent in that time.  ‘Undervalued’ Forwards  The yuan accounted for 11.6 percent of the currency
exposure of Western Asset’s $480 million  Asian Opportunities
Fund  at the end of October, according to a statement issued by
the firm on Nov. 23. That’s up from 7.5 percent on July 31.  “Yuan non-deliverable forwards are currently
undervalued,” said  Rajeev de Mello , head of Asian investment in
Singapore at Western Asset Management Co., which oversaw $469
billion at the end of September. “The Chinese currency could
appreciate 3.5 to 4 percent at an annualized rate; based on
this, the contracts look cheap.”  Twelve-month yuan forwards indicated  5.1 percent  yuan
appreciation on average between April 2006 and December 2007,
the last cycle of interest-rate increases in China. The
benchmark one-year lending and deposit rates were raised 1.89
percentage points to 7.47 percent and 4.14 percent,
respectively, in that time. Last month’s quarter of a percentage
point increase lifted the rates to 5.56 percent and 2.5 percent.  Lending Curbs  China’s 12-month interest-rate  swap , the fixed cost needed
to receive the floating seven-day repurchase  rate , jumped 10
basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to a two-year high of
3.31 percent. The finance ministry today sold 11.55 billion yuan
($1.77 billion) of three-month bills, falling short of its
target of 20 billion yuan. The average yield was 2.7372 percent.  The yield on the 3.28 percent government bond due in August
2020 rose 12 basis points to 4.10 percent, National Interbank
Funding Center data show. It climbed 40 basis points this month
and reached 4 percent, the highest since September 2008.  The central bank will control the pace of  bank lending  for
the rest of the year as it will be difficult to stay within the
government’s 7.5 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) target for new
loans, Deputy Governor  Hu Xiaolian  said in a Nov. 24 statement.
 New lending  totaled 6.88 trillion yuan in the last 10 months,
official figures show.  Consumer prices increased 4.4 percent from a year earlier
in October, exceeding the official 3 percent target for 2010.
Inflation may reach 5 percent by mid-2011, prompting the central
bank to “accelerate monetary tightening,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk,  senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong.
The rate will average 5.5 percent next year, Standard Chartered
forecast this week.  ‘Bullish’ on Yuan  “China’s monetary policy has a lot more focus on
inflation,” said  Ryosuke Kawahata , a Tokyo-based fund manager
at Mizuho Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of
$41 billion. “They have been allowing appreciation at quite a
fast pace this year and that hasn’t caused much damage to the
economy, which is strong and solid enough to withstand the
adjustment. We are bullish on China’s currency.”  Kawahata helps manage Mizuho’s Growing Asia Fund, which
splits its assets evenly between China, India and Southeast
Asia. China’s  economy  grew 9.6 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, following a 10.3 percent expansion in the
previous three months.  The annual cost of insuring China’s foreign-currency debt
for five years using credit-default swaps was at 64 basis points
yesterday, versus 59 a week ago, according to CMA prices. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should the
government fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net 
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 