-- Yummy Mummy, Topless Showstopper, Holland With Moyet: Great London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-11-25T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/yummy-mummy-topless-showstopper-holland-with-moyet-great-london-weekend.html
Jools Holland  and  Alison Moyet  are
joining forces to get the weekend started.  Holland -- all-around good guy, writer and TV presenter --
brings his boogie-woogie piano and Rhythm & Blues Orchestra to
the Royal Albert Hall. Friday and Saturday’s shows both feature
bluesy ballads from Moyet, and from Holland’s long-time soul
vocalists Ruby Turner and Louise Marshall.  Royal Albert Hall, Kensington Gore, SW7 2AP. Information:
+44-845-401-5045;  http://www.royalalberthall.com  or
 http://www.joolsholland.com/ .  Launceston Place is a charming restaurant within walking
distance of the Albert Hall. Chef Tristan Welch is a rising
talent, and the early evening menu is 38 pounds ($60).
 http://www.launcestonplace-restaurant.co.uk/ .  Saturday  A topless showgirl who wound up in the history books has
memorabilia on display at the Mayor Gallery.  Christine Keeler -- whose scandalous tryst with War
Secretary John Profumo sparked his resignation in 1963 -- is
pictured chewing on a chicken leg, posing with a chipmunk, and
baring virtually all in her gilded stage gear.  You can peruse the menu at her cabaret club, and read a
letter to her family during a nine-month jail sentence, in which
she dreams of turning fame into lasting fortune.  The Mayor Gallery is at 22a Cork Street, W1S 3NA.
Information:  http://www.mayorgallery.com  or +44-20-7734-3558.  If you fancy a treat, the stylish Hakkasan Chinese
restaurant has just opened a branch near Cork Street. It’s wise
to book early.  http://w3.hakkasan.com/   Saturday Night  Fans of the paranormal have a stage production to opt for.  “Ghost Stories” plots three everyday situations that turn
creepy. A night watchman who owes his comatose daughter a visit
is spooked by bumping noises he hears around the house. A scatty
student with no driver’s license runs over a woman in the night.
A careerist banker whose wife is away giving birth watches
objects eerily fly off the nursery shelves.  “Ghost Stories” is at the Duke of Yorks Theatre:
 http://www.ambassadortickets.com  or +44-844-871-7627.  Sunday  Ancient Egyptians tended to die at around the age of 35. So
they believed, somewhat hopefully, in life after death.  Rich ones got lavish sendoffs, their bodies packed with
good-luck charms, gems, and spells, as an outstanding British
Museum show illustrates.  Women were no exception. The mummy of the petite Katebet is
dolled up with pectoral ornaments and a gilded mask that has
real rings on its carved wooden hands.  Information:  http://www.britishmuseum.org  or
+44-20-7323-8000.  ( Farah Nayeri  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 