-- Zimbabwe, Short of Credit And Aid, Seeks to Balance Budget, Minister Says
-- B y   G o r d o n   B e l l
-- 2010-11-25T17:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-25/zimbabwe-short-of-credit-and-aid-seeks-to-balance-budget-minister-says.html
Zimbabwe will limit its spending
next year to $2.7 billion to balance its budget because it can’t
borrow and hasn’t been able to attract foreign aid, Finance
Minister  Tendai Biti  said.  Revenue will increase by 20 percent from $2.25 billion as
economic growth accelerates on higher mining output and
royalties, Biti said in a budget statement published today on
the Harare-based Finance Ministry’s website.  “It follows that we have to accommodate those budget
priorities that fit within our resource envelope as dictated by
the domestic revenue capacity of the economy, given the absence
of recourse to borrowing,” he said.  While the southern African nation has emerged from a 10-
year recession, foreign donors haven’t committed money. The
European Union and the U.S. have maintained asset freezes and
travel bans against President  Robert Mugabe  and some members of
his Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front party,
demanding more proof of their commitment to democracy and human
rights.  The government has approved a plan to clear debt arrears of
about $1.3 billion to the  International Monetary Fund , the
African Development and the World Bank, Biti said. That would
open the way to re-schedule its other debt, he said.  The Movement for Democratic Change, of which Biti is a
member, joined the government last year in an attempt to stem
the economic decline and end a political crisis.  Economic Expansion  Zimbabwe’s economy is estimated to expand 9.3 percent in
2011 from growth of about 8.1 percent this year on a 44 percent
jump in mining output, Biti said.  Higher mining royalties will help boost budget revenue, he
said. The rates on gold and platinum sales will rise from next
year to 4.5 percent and 5 percent respectively from 4 percent.  Inflation will probably average 4.5 percent to 5 percent,
Biti said.  Zimbabwe scrapped its currency in 2009 and adopted the use
of multiple currencies, resulting in inflation plummeting from
500 billion percent. Annual inflation slowed to 3.6 percent in
October from 4.2 percent in September, according to the state
statistics agency.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Gordon Bell  at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Matthew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 