-- Telekomunikacja Profit Falls; Company Lowers Forecast
-- Ewa Krukowska
-- 2007-07-31T15:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-07-31/telekomunikacja-profit-falls-company-lowers-forecast-update6-.html

          
          
             Telekomunikacja Polska SA, Poland's
largest phone company, had a 9 percent drop in second-quarter
profit and cut its full-year sales forecast after it lowered
prices and lost clients to competitors.  
 Net income declined to 495 million zloty ($179 million) from
544 million zloty a year earlier, the Warsaw-based company said
today. That's lower than the 562.8 million-zloty estimate of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Sales dropped 2.9 percent to
4.51 billion zloty. The shares fell to the lowest in six weeks.  
 ``The company has no clear plan as to what to do in the
future,'' said  Pawel Puchalski , an analyst at Bank Zachodni WBK
in Warsaw. ``It looks scary. Telekomunikacja is facing the
regulator and the market, which is becoming more aggressively
competitive.''  
 Poland's telecommunications regulator plans to keep pushing
Telekomunikacja, a unit of France Telecom SA, to lower prices and
making its network more accessible to competitors. At least three
new providers, including Multimedia Polska SA and Polkomtel SA,
aim to start selling fixed-line services using Telekomunikacja's
network this year.  
 First-half earnings were also decreased by 242 million zloty
of provisions for claims and litigation, versus 22 million zloty
a year earlier, Chief Financial Officer Benoit Merel said. The
regulator has fined the company 12 times this year, for a record
total of 374.1 million zloty.  
 Shrinking Investment  
 Telekomunikacja plans to cut investment to about 14 percent
of revenue in 2010, Chief Executive Officer Maciej Witucki told
journalists. The phone company aims to invest between 16 percent
and 19 percent of revenue this year.  
 The shares slid 1.8 percent to 22.06 zloty in Warsaw, the
lowest since June 21. It has lost 10 percent this year,
underperforming the benchmark WIG20 Index, which has added 14
percent.  
 Poland 's former phone monopoly said sales will shrink by
about 2.8 percent this year, versus the 1 percent decline
forecast by the company in January.  
 The growth of Poland's telecommunications market slowed to
0.5 percent in the first half from 5 percent a year earlier,
according to Telekomunikacja.  
 Diversification Plans  
 Telekomunikacja wants to get 50 percent of its revenue from
``unregulated markets'' such as cable television, video on demand
and software services by the end of 2010, it said.  
 ``Development of the telco market has dramatically slowed,''
Witucki said. ``Further Telekomunikacja expansion is going to
depend on successful penetration with new offers, such value-added services as games, new info services on mobile phones.''  
 Telekomunikacja may also seek to acquire other phone
companies in central and eastern Europe, help produce films and
buy software developers in Poland, Witucki said.  
 The company plans to sell properties in Warsaw, including
its headquarters downtown in the capital city. The phone company
plans to build a new headquarters by 2010, Witucki said,
declining to specify a value for either building.  
 Dividends will grow in the coming years, Merel said.
Telekomunikacja paid out 1.4 zloty a share on 2006 profit. It is
also paying out 50 grosze a share via a buyback that continues
through the end of the year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story: Katarzyna Klimasinska in
Warsaw at   kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ; Ewa Krukowska in Warsaw at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story: Malcolm Fried
at   mfried@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        