-- Australian Greens Seek Senate Balance of Power in Record Election Campaign
-- Ed Johnson
-- 2010-08-01T03:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/australia-s-greens-party-seeks-balance-of-power-in-senate-in-august-ballot.html

          
          
             The Australian Greens Party unveiled
its biggest ever national election advertising campaign today,
seeking to win enough votes in the Aug. 21 ballot to hold the
balance of power in the country’s  Senate .  
 The Greens offer a vision for Australia “which is lacking
from the big parties,” said leader  Bob Brown , who accuses Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor government and opposition leader
 Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition of inaction on tackling
climate change.  
 Support for the Greens, who have five senators in the 76-
seat upper house, rose to a record 16 percent in a Newspoll
published on June 1 and stood at 12 percent in a Nielsen poll
released yesterday. Brown said today that Abbott is just one
seat away from controlling the Senate, which can block, pass or
amend legislation, and that would lead to legislative deadlock
in the nation.  
 If Gillard is re-elected, her government says it will delay
plans to set up a market mechanism to put a price on carbon
until after 2012. Her Labor government would establish emissions
standards for new coal-fired power stations and pay A$1 billion
($904 million) to connect renewable energy sources to the
nation’s power grid. The party also supports carbon capture and
storage.  
 ‘Green Army’  
 Abbott wants to set up an A$1 billion fund to encourage
companies to reduce emissions and establish a 15,000-strong
“green army” to repair environmental damage. The coalition
would cancel government funds for carbon capture and storage.  
 The Greens want a carbon price of A$23 a ton that rises 4
percent plus inflation each year and Brown has urged Gillard to
set a price in 2011 before introducing an emissions-trading
system. The party has said it will support Gillard’s 30 percent
tax on iron ore and coal profits at companies such as  BHP 
Billiton Ltd.  
 Labor has 32 seats in the Senate, the coalition 37 and
independent parties two. In the Aug. 21 ballot, all of the House
of Representatives, the lower house of parliament, and half of
the Senate will be elected.  
 A tax on carbon will cause electricity prices to spiral
leading to “more pressure on people’s cost of living,” Abbott
told reporters today.  
 The coalition leads Labor 52 percent to 48 percent on a
two-party preferred basis, the Sydney Morning Herald reported
yesterday, citing a Nielsen poll. Gillard’s approval rating fell
five points to 51 percent, while Abbott’s rose six points to 49
percent, according to the poll.  
 The telephone survey of 1,356 voters on July 27 to 29,
which has a margin of error of 2.6 percentage points, put
support for the Greens at 12 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net ;
 Ed Johnson  in Sydney at 
 Ejohnson28@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        