-- RBA May Extend Australia Rate Pause, Averting Damage to Gillard
-- Daniel Petrie
-- 2010-08-02T01:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/australia-s-central-bank-poised-to-hold-rates-in-good-news-for-gillard.html

          
          
             Australia’s central bank may keep its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a third month after
inflation slowed, averting an increase in mortgage costs that
risked damaging Prime Minister  Julia Gillard’s  election campaign.  
 Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board will leave the  overnight cash rate target  at 4.5 percent
at 2:30 p.m. in Sydney tomorrow, according to all 23 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  
 Consumer prices rose the least in three years last quarter,
giving scope to extend the rate pause after six increases since
early October. Gillard, level with or behind opposition leader
 Tony Abbott  in some polls ahead of the Aug. 21 vote, is relying
on holding electorates in western Sydney and the state of
Queensland that have large numbers of households with mortgages.  
 “The Reserve Bank doesn’t need to touch rates, and it can
stay on the sidelines for a number of months,” said  Craig James ,
a senior economist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia. “You’ve
got inflation at normal levels so this time around the bank can
feel pretty relaxed.”  
 Traders calculate no chance of a quarter-percentage-point
increase in the benchmark rate to 4.75 percent, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on interbank futures on the Sydney
Futures Exchange at 10:29 a.m. Prior to last week’s second-
quarter inflation report, there was a 28 percent chance of an
increase.  
 ‘Good News’  
 “There won’t be any rise in interest rates and that’s good
news for Labor,” said  Malcolm Mackerras , a visiting fellow in
political science at the University of New South Wales in Sydney,
who has written books on Australian politics and devised a gauge
known as the “ Mackerras pendulum ” to determine how big a swing
in support is needed to pick up key districts. “The seats that
are likely to change hands are very often mortgage-belt seats.”  
 Former Prime Minister  John Howard  was ousted in a November
2007 election two weeks after the RBA boosted its benchmark rate
to what was then the highest level in nine years. The majority
of Australian mortgages are  floating-rate loans .  
 This time around, signs of contained inflation are helping
Gillard. Australia’s quarterly inflation report on July 28
showed that core prices, as measured by the central bank’s so-
called  trimmed mean gauge , rose 2.7 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier. Stevens aims to keep price gains
between 2 percent and 3 percent.  
 A separate gauge of Australia’s inflation published today
by TD Securities Ltd. showed consumer prices rose 0.1 percent in
July from June, the smallest gain in five months.  
 Regional Bent  
 The governor has led policy makers around the Asia-Pacific
region by returning borrowing costs to what he has described as
“average” levels, on evidence that Australia’s economy, one of
few to skirt last year’s global recession, is strengthening
thanks to Chinese demand for raw materials.  
 New Zealand boosted its benchmark rate last week for a
second straight month, and India’s central bank increased a key
rate on July 27 by more than economists forecast. Malaysia has
raised borrowing costs three times this year, while Korea and
Thailand increased them once.  
 Australia’s rate moves have also helped stoke an 8.8
percent gain in the nation’s currency against the U.S. dollar in
the past 12 months, the third-best performer among the 16 most
actively traded currencies. The currency traded at 90.98 U.S.
cents at 10:54 a.m., up from 90.39 cents late on July 30.  
 Inflation Outlook  
 “The important question for the board at its next meeting
would be whether the new information materially changed the
medium-term outlook for inflation,” the bank said in  minutes  of
its July 6 meeting released in Sydney last month.  
 The bank’s forecast for second-quarter inflation published
three months ago almost matched the 2.7 percent rate announced
last week. RBA economists will issue their latest predictions
for inflation and economic growth on Aug. 6.  
 Policy makers may resume raising borrowing costs at the end
of 2010 as the economic rebound worsens a skills shortage that
threatens to stoke wage growth. That may be particularly true in
Western Australia, where Chevron Corp.’s A$43 billion ($39
billion) LNG gas project is under construction.  
 Australia’s  jobless rate  was 5.1 percent in June, below
Japan’s level and almost half that of the U.S. Western
Australia’s rate was 4 percent.  
 Retail Sales  
 Retail sales probably rose in June for a fourth straight
month, matching the longest run of gains since early 2009, when
the government distributed more than A$10 billion in cash
handouts to consumers, a report may show tomorrow, according to
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Manufacturing growth expanded in July for a seventh
straight month, according to the Australian Industry Group’s
performance of manufacturing index published today. The index
advanced 1.5 points to 54.4. A figure above 50 signals the
industry is growing.  
 Rate increases are particularly sensitive for political
leaders in Australia, where more than two-thirds of the
population own homes, compared with less than 50 percent in some
European nations.  
 Stevens’ six rate increases since October added about
A$3,600 a year to loan repayments on an average A$300,000
mortgage.  
 A report published today by the Housing Industry
Association showed sales of newly built dwellings dropped 5.1
percent in June from May.  
 The Liberal-National Coalition has drawn level with the
ruling Labor party in popularity, a Newspoll opinion survey
published by the Australian newspaper today showed. Both sides
have 50 percent voter support, with Labor dropping 2 percentage
points from a week earlier, and the opposition advancing by the
same amount, according to a telephone survey of 1,137 voters
taken between July 31 and yesterday. The margin of error is 3
percentage points.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Petrie  in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Julia Gillard  
                       
                         
                           Joseph Lafferty/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Julia Gillard, Australia's prime minister, speaks during a news conference at Government House in Canberra, Australia. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Julia Gillard, Australia's prime minister, speaks during a news conference at Government House in Canberra, Australia. Photographer: Joseph Lafferty/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's William Pesek speaks from Tokyo with Bloomberg’s Haslinda Amin about next month's Australian election.
     Australian opposition leader Tony Abbott and Prime Minister Julia Gillard have placed management of the economy at the top of their election campaigns before a national vote next month largely being fought over how much taxes companies pay and who gets to come to Australia. (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own. Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
