-- Banks on Europe's Edge Face $122 Billion Refinancing Bill
-- Kate Haywood
-- 2010-08-02T15:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/banks-face-122-billion-bond-tab-as-europe-pays-up-to-sell-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Banks in Europe’s most indebted
nations need to refinance $122 billion of bonds this year,
likely paying high interest costs even after receiving a clean
bill of health from regulators.  
 Italy’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA  has the most debt coming due at
$28 billion, followed by  UniCredit SpA  with $21 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Italian banks must
refinance a total $69 billion of bonds this year and $157
billion in 2011, while Spanish lenders have $28 billion and $73
billion of debt that needs to be paid.  
 Banks in so-called peripheral European countries from
Greece to Ireland have been largely shut out of debt markets
since April amid concern their governments will struggle to cut
budget deficits.  Banco Santander SA , the countries’ third-
biggest debtor, and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA  took
advantage of a thaw following the European Union’s stress tests
to sell bonds last week, though at relative yields that were as
much as double what they paid before the crisis.  
 “There is still a strong cloud of pessimism hanging over
the markets,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB in London. “Getting that funding done will
be as good a test as the stress tests were.”  
 Banco Santander , Spain’s largest bank, which has 14.2
billion euros ($18.5 billion) of bonds maturing this year and
25.8 billion euros in 2011, paid a margin 50 percent higher on
July 29 than when it sold debt in February, Bloomberg data show.
BBVA, with 5.1 billion euros of notes due by year-end, paid
double. Alberte Patino, a spokesman for BBVA in Madrid, declined
to comment.  
 Debt Maturities  
 The 24 lenders in the benchmark  Stoxx 600 Banks Index  that
are from Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece and Spain have $271
billion of debt to refinance next year and $230 billion in 2012,
Bloomberg data show.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own corporate bonds rather than government debt
narrowed for a fourth straight week and by the most since
December.  
 Global corporate bond spreads fell 6 basis points last week
to 177 basis points, or 1.77 percentage points, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate
index. The gap has declined 19 basis points since the end of
June and is up 1 basis point from Dec. 31. Yields fell to 3.72
percent, from 3.96 percent on June 30.  
 IBM Offering  
 International Business Machines Corp. , the world’s biggest
computer-services company, may sell three-year notes in a
benchmark offering, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The Armonk, New York-based company may issue the
debt as soon as today, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set. Benchmark offerings are
typically at least $500 million.  
 The cost of protecting company debt in the U.S. and Europe
fell to the lowest in more than 11 weeks.  
 The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or
speculate on creditworthiness, declining 3.76 basis points to a
mid-price of 100.63 basis points as of 11:27 a.m. in New York,
according to Markit Group Ltd. That’s the biggest decline since
July 13. In London, the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of swaps on
125 companies with investment-grade ratings dropped 4.58 to
100.43.  
 Both indexes, which are at the lowest since May 13,
typically fall as investor confidence improves and rise as it
deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a swap
protecting $10 million of bonds and loans.  
 Bank of Ireland  
 Bank of Ireland Plc  and Allied Irish Banks Plc, the
country’s two biggest lenders, have 16.7 billion euros of debt
maturing this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. No
Irish lender has issued a benchmark bond since April.  
 Portuguese banks have 1.4 billion euros of bonds coming due
this year and 8.6 billion euros in 2011, while Greek lenders
have 1.1 billion euros and 11.4 billion euros.  
 The results of the EU’s stress tests on banks’ financial
health on July 23 helped ease investor concern that lenders
would suffer losses on sovereign debt holdings. Just 7 of 91
lenders failed, and sentiment was further buoyed three days
later when the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision proposed
softer capital rules for financial companies worldwide.  
 Investor Sentiment  
 “Sentiment is much more positive, even toward some of the
more difficult names like the Irish or Spanish banks,” said
 Edward Stevenson , the London-based head of European financial
debt at BNP Paribas SA, France’s biggest bank by assets.  
 Bank of America Corp. , the biggest U.S. lender,
Switzerland’s second-largest bank Credit Suisse Group AG and No.
1 Dutch lender Rabobank Nederland NV used the investor optimism
to raise money in Europe’s bond market last week. Banks sold 8.8
billion euros of notes, making it the busiest week since lenders
issued 19.6 billion euros of debt in the five days starting July
4, Bloomberg data show.  
 Banco Santander issued 1.5 billion euros of notes due
August 2014 in its first public offering of fixed-rate, senior
unsecured debt since Feb. 24. It paid interest of 160 basis
points more than the benchmark swap rate, compared with the 105
basis-point margin on its earlier 1 billion-euro March 2015
deal, according to Bloomberg data.  
 ‘Locomotive Effect’  
 The lender’s deal was helped by “a little bit of the
locomotive effect,” where issues by other banks helped stoke
investor appetite, Chief Executive Officer  Alfredo Saenz  said at
a press conference in Madrid on the day of the sale. Santander,
Spain-based Banco Santander has enough money from debt issues
and deposits to repay its maturities through 2012, according to
spokesman Peter Grieff.  
 BBVA sold 1.25 billion euros of bonds due August 2015 on
July 28 that were priced to yield 170 basis points over swaps,
double the spread when it last issued five-year debt. The bank
paid a margin of 85 basis points when it issued 1 billion euros
of April 2015 notes on April 12, Bloomberg data show.  
 “It’s good for the sector that BBVA got done but it’s too
early to say” if weaker banks will be able to raise money
before the summer lull, said  Anke Richter , a credit research
analyst at Conduit Capital Markets Ltd. in London. “Second-tier
banks will probably have to wait until September.”  
 Stress Tests  
 Smaller lenders may also be hampered by concern the stress
tests weren’t rigorous enough because they didn’t take account
of all government bonds held by banks.  
 “Rather than the stress tests being a game-changer, one is
left with the nagging feeling that this was another opportunity
missed,”  Andrew Balls , head of European portfolio management at
Pacific Investment Management Co., wrote in a July 28 report.
European lenders’ “underlying problems are fundamental and
long-term in nature,” wrote Balls, whose Newport Beach,
California-based firm runs the world’s biggest bond fund.  
 Major lenders from Europe’s peripheral nations have sold
$22.4 billion of bonds with lifetimes of 18 months or longer
since May, the smallest amount in any three-month period since
the aftermath of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s bankruptcy in
September 2008, according to Bloomberg data.  
 For all the improvement in sentiment last week, bonds sold
by European banks still lagged their U.S. counterparts in July.
European financial-company debt handed investors a 1.48 percent
return, compared with 2.37 percent in the U.S., according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Global government debt
returned 0.59 percent, down from 0.83 percent in June.  
 ‘Lingering Sovereign Risk’  
 “We’re very wary of lingering sovereign risk and are
buying debt of banks which aren’t going to be affected by a
negative change in sentiment,” said  Sanjay Joshi , who oversees
about $500 million as a money manager at London & Capital Group
Ltd. in London. He said he passed on the Banco Santander and
BBVA issues.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own European financial-
company bonds has climbed 48 basis points to 217 basis points
from a 29-month low on April 16, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s EMU Financial Corporate Index.  
 Spanish bank spreads average 333 basis points, 62 percent
wider than at the beginning of April. Portuguese lenders’
margins average 495 basis points, 85 percent wider, while Irish
financial debt pays a 585 basis-point margin, 35 percent more.
Italian bank spreads are 218 basis points, an increase of 34
percent compared with four months ago.  
 With many frozen out of the bond market, banks in the
peripheral countries are relying on the European Central Bank
for the bulk of their funding. Spanish lenders, which account
for 10.5 percent of assets in the EU financial system, borrowed
a record 126.3 billion euros from the Frankfurt-based ECB in
June, the most recent Bank of Spain data show.  
 The cash, lent at cheap rates, is “the ultimate
methadone,” and is prompting banks to “delay their
refinancings because they can always get money from the ECB,”
said  Stuart Thomson , who helps manage the equivalent of about $1
billion at Ignis Management in Glasgow.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Banks on Europe’s Edge Face $122 Billion Bill  
                       
                         
                           Denis Doyle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Alfredo Saenz, chief executive officer of Banco Santander SA, listens during a news conference at the company's headquarters in Madrid. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Alfredo Saenz, chief executive officer of Banco Santander SA, listens during a news conference at the company's headquarters in Madrid. Photographer: Denis Doyle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Georg Grodzki, global head of credit research at Legal & General Investment Management, speaks about European banks' financing costs.
     Banks in so-called peripheral European countries from Greece to Ireland have been largely shut out of debt markets since April amid concern their governments will struggle to cut budget deficits. He talks with Mark Barton on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
