-- BlackBerry Services Will Be Halted in U.A.E. as Traffic Can't Be Monitored
-- Vivian Salama
-- 2010-08-01T14:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/blackberry-messenger-web-browsing-to-be-suspended-in-u-a-e-from-oct-11.html

          
          
             Research In Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry
services will be suspended in the United Arab Emirates, the
Middle East’s business hub, from October because of security
concerns as the company faces similar restrictions in India.  
 BlackBerry’s Messenger, e-mail and Web browsing services
will be halted from Oct. 11, the  Telecommunications Regulatory
Authority  said in a statement on state-run Emirates News Agency.
“In their current form, certain BlackBerry services allow users
to act without any legal accountability, causing judicial,
social and national security concerns for the U.A.E.,” it said.  
 Countries like India have struggled with BlackBerry’s data
encryption technology as they seek to monitor wireless
communications. Saudi Arabia’s telecommunications regulator
ordered phone providers in the largest Arab economy to suspend
BlackBerry’s Messenger service, Reuters reported today, citing
unidentified industry sources. Bahrain is imposing a ban on
sharing local news on BlackBerry to avoid “confusion and chaos,”
 Gulf News  reported on April 9.  
 The U.A.E. regulator informed local phone companies
 Emirates Telecommunications Corp. , known as Etisalat, and
 Emirates Integrated Telecommunications Co. , known as Du, of the
suspension of BlackBerry services and instructed them to shift
clients to other services.  
 Solution  
 “This is going to be resolved,” said  Irfan Ellam , an
analyst at Al Mal Capital PJSC in Dubai, who has “outperform”
ratings on Etisalat and Du. “These are issues that have been
brought up in other countries, where they’ve found a solution,
and there’s no reason to think they won’t do the same here.”  
 BlackBerry devices, introduced in the U.A.E. in 2006, allow
users to send messages that can’t be monitored, violating the
country’s 2007 Safety, Emergency and National Security rules,
the regulator said last week. Although such communications
should fall under the remit of that law, encryption allows them
to avoid monitoring, it said today.  
 “The issue has been under discussion for three years,” the
regulator’s Director General Mohammed el Ghanim said in a phone
interview today, saying the decision to stop BlackBerry services
wasn’t linked to any specific breach of security. “We want only
the implementation of the U.A.E. law, we are a sovereign country
and our laws should be respected.”  
 U.A.E. authorities arrested a BlackBerry user who sought to
use the device to organize a protest against an increase in
retail gasoline prices,  Reporters Without Borders  said in a
statement on its website July 29.  
 Alternative Products  
 Etisalat, the U.A.E.’s largest fixed-line, mobile and
Internet service provider, said it will soon announce
alternative products and services for its BlackBerry customers.
Du said voice, short messages, or SMS, and multimedia message
services, or MMS, would continue to be available.  
 Research in Motion, based in Waterloo, Ontario, did not
have an immediate comment when called by Bloomberg News today.
Etisalat and Du said in separate e-mailed statements they were
informed by the regulator of the pending suspension and would
seek to provide users with alternative mobile options.  
 BlackBerry services may be banned in India unless the
Canadian company agrees to resolve security concerns, a
government official with direct knowledge of the matter said
July 29. India told Research In Motion to set up a proxy server
in the country to enable security agencies to monitor e-mail
traffic, according to three government officials, who declined
to be identified as the information is confidential.  
 The company faced obstacles recently in Pakistan, where the
national telecommunications regulator said it blocked Internet
browsers on BlackBerry handsets, citing concerns over blasphemy.  
 Monitoring  
 Communications are subject to monitoring in countries like
the U.S., where the Patriot Act, passed in 2001 following the
Sept. 11 attacks, permits intercepting wire, oral and electronic
communications when terrorism is suspected.  
 Technology companies have faced other challenges over
access to information.  Google Inc.  conflicted with China in
January after the company said it would no longer self-censor
search results in the world’s largest Internet market. Google
had its Internet license renewed earlier this month after it
stopped automatically redirecting Chinese users to its separate
 Hong Kong  site.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       BlackBerry Challenges Set to Spread  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         BlackBerry’s Messenger, e-mail and Web browsing services will be halted from Oct. 11, the United Arab Emirates Telecommunications Regulatory Authority said in a statement. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     BlackBerry’s Messenger, e-mail and Web browsing services will be halted from Oct. 11, the United Arab Emirates Telecommunications Regulatory Authority said in a statement. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
