-- BlackBerry Challenges May Spread as Governments, RIM Collide
-- Hugo Miller
-- 2010-08-02T20:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/blackberry-expansion-at-risk-as-governments-tighten-curbs-on-mobile-e-mail.html

          
          
             Research In Motion Ltd. , maker of the
BlackBerry smartphone, faces increasing challenges to its
overseas expansion as developing countries tighten restrictions
on mobile e-mail.  
 The United Arab Emirates, home to Middle East business hub
Dubai, said yesterday it may suspend BlackBerry e-mail services
in October because of concern the devices could be used in
crimes. The move comes days after an official in India said that
country may ban BlackBerry e-mail use and reports that Saudi
Arabia could take similar steps.  
 “It’s a reflection of fears of cyber-security and
espionage that now extend to mobile phones,” said  Ron Deibert ,
director of the University of Toronto’s  Citizen Lab , who helped
colleagues uncover a plot against the Indian government that
involved computers in China. “It’s the type of thing that will
become more common for RIM as they grapple with public policy
and ethical issues in emerging markets.”  
 RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, is focusing on countries
including India, the U.A.E., Indonesia and Brazil as a decade of
North American expansion slows. Revenue from outside North
America rose to 37 percent of RIM’s $15 billion in revenue in
the last fiscal year, up from 23 percent in the fiscal year
ended February, 2005.  
 Security Concern  
 For RIM, the pioneer in handheld e-mail devices, security
is one of the main advantages it touts over competitors. E-mails
its customers send are encrypted and sent through RIM’s own
servers and network operation centers, with much of the
equipment located in Canada. That security has made BlackBerrys
popular with companies and government officials including  Barack Obama , who kept his BlackBerry after becoming U.S. president.  
 However, the system also makes it harder for governments to
monitor BlackBerry communications than messages from other
smartphones, which typically travel across the Internet. That
has made RIM’s devices an issue for countries concerned mobile
e-mail or messaging could be used to coordinate a terrorist
attack or bring down a government.  
 “RIM respects both the regulatory requirements of
government and the security and privacy needs of corporations
and consumers,” the company said in a statement. “RIM does not
disclose confidential regulatory discussions that take place
with any government.” In a separate statement for corporate
customers, RIM said each company’s e-mails are encrypted with a
unique key and even RIM can’t decode such messages.  
 Swarovski Crystal  
 In the U.A.E., where customers can buy Swarovski-crystal
encrusted BlackBerry phones and leather  Montblanc carrying
cases , the government said it will suspend services it can’t
monitor because of the potential for illegal use, according to a
statement. BlackBerry’s Messenger, e-mail and Web browsing
services will be halted from Oct. 11, the  Telecommunications
Regulatory Authority  said. Business travelers and other foreign
visitors will also be affected, the agency said.  
 RIM shares slid 55 cents to $56.98 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock had lost 16 percent
this year.  
 “Security concerns trumped commercial considerations,”
 Eckart Woertz , who manages the economics program at the Dubai-
based Gulf Research Center, said of the U.A.E. decision. “They
want to control ongoing telecommunications but can’t because of
the way BlackBerry manages its data offshore.”  
 The decision means a “few hundred thousand” BlackBerry
users in the U.A.E.’s 30 billion-dirham ($8.2 billion)
telecommunications market may have to look for alternative
services, Shuaa Capital PSC’s  Simon Simonian  said.  
 “The BlackBerry has become an indispensable tool,”
telecommunications analyst Simonian said. “Corporate users will
have to migrate and find another data plan.”  
 Bahrain, Qatar  
 Saudi Arabia, the largest Arab economy, may be able to
resolve security concerns that led authorities to order the
suspension of some BlackBerry services from August, Al Arabiya
television reported today, citing unidentified officials.
Telephone companies met RIM yesterday to discuss concerns that
prompted the suspension, Al Arabiya said.  
 Saudi Telecom Co. , the kingdom’s largest telephone
company, hasn’t been informed of any such request, said Hisham
Ismail, a consultant to the company for technical affairs.  
 Bahrain is imposing a ban on sharing a local news service
via BlackBerry devices to avoid “confusion and chaos,”  Gulf
News  reported April 9.  Bahrain Telecommunications Co.  hasn’t
received instructions from the government to restrict BlackBerry
services, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Kaliaropoulos  said.  
 Encryption Concern  
 Qatar Telecom QSC, the country’s largest telecommunication
services provider, will soon take steps to stop people accessing
“permissive” websites using the Blackberry, Al Arab newspaper
said, citing  Adel Al Mutawa , an executive director with the
company. Qatar isn’t pursuing any plan to ban BlackBerry
services, said Meegan Webb, acting assistant secretary general
of telecommunications regulator ictQatar.  
 Data from BlackBerry handsets is sent in encrypted form to
computer servers located outside the U.A.E., the national
regulator said in a statement yesterday.  
 “In their current form, certain BlackBerry services allow
users to act without any legal accountability, causing judicial,
social and national security concerns,” it said.  
 The U.A.E. informed local phone companies  Emirates
Telecommunications Corp. , known as Etisalat, and  Emirates
Integrated Telecommunications Co. , known as Du, of the pending
suspension of BlackBerry services and instructed them to shift
clients to other services.  
 A Resolution?  
 BlackBerry devices, introduced in the U.A.E. in 2006,
enable users to send messages that can’t be monitored as allowed
under the country’s 2007 Safety, Emergency and National Security
rules, the regulator said last week. Encryption allows them to
avoid monitoring, it said today.  
 The United States is disappointed with the U.A.E’s
decision, said  Philip J. Crowley , a State Department official.  
 “We are committed to promoting the free flow of
information,” he said.  
 “This is going to be resolved,” said  Irfan Ellam , an
analyst at Al Mal Capital PJSC in Dubai, who has “outperform”
ratings on Etisalat and Du. “These are issues that have been
brought up in other countries, where they’ve found a solution,
and there’s no reason to think they won’t do the same here.”  
 Etisalat and Du said they were informed by the U.A.E.
regulator of the pending suspension and would seek to provide
users with alternatives.  
 ‘Real Bummer’  
 BlackBerry services may be banned in India unless the
Canadian company agrees to resolve security concerns, a
government official with direct knowledge of the matter said
July 29. India told RIM to set up a proxy server in the country
to enable security agencies to monitor e-mail traffic, according
to three government officials, who declined to be identified
because the information is confidential.  
 Technology companies have confronted other challenges over
information access.  Google Inc.  clashed with China in January
after the company said it would no longer self-censor search
results in the world’s largest Internet market. Google had its
Internet license renewed earlier this month after it stopped
automatically redirecting Chinese users to its separate  Hong
Kong  site.  
 “It’s a real bummer,” said Rob Baines, a freelancer
worker who’s one month into a yearlong BlackBerry service
contract with Etisalat. He said he paid 1,000 dirhams for the
phone and would have to pay 3,000 dirhams if he canceled the
contract. Baines, who spoke outside an Etisalat service office,
said he was still trying to find out what he’d be able to do
with the new phones both he and his wife purchased.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       BlackBerry Challenges May Spread  
                       
                         
                           Norm Betts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         RIM is focusing on countries including India, the U.A.E., Indonesia and Brazil as a decade of North American expansion slows. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     RIM is focusing on countries including India, the U.A.E., Indonesia and Brazil as a decade of North American expansion slows. Photographer: Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Tavis McCourt, an analyst at Morgan Keegan & Co., discusses the prospects for Research In Motion Inc.’s overseas expansion as the company faces challenges in developing countries that are increasing restrictions on mobile e-mail.
     McCourt speaks with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With Betty Liu.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Michael Gartenberg, partner at research firm Altimeter Group LLC, talks about the possibility of a tablet computer by Research In Motion Ltd., the makers of the BlackBerry handheld device, and the outlook for a Facebook Inc. initial public offering.
     Gartenberg speaks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock". (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
