-- BP to Start Permanent Plugging of Damaged Gulf Well This Week
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-08-02T02:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/bp-will-begin-permanent-plug-of-macondo-well-in-gulf-of-mexico-this-week.html

          
          
             BP Plc  plans this week to inject
mud down its Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico and begin
permanently plugging the source of the largest oil spill in
U.S. history.  
 The process will start tonight or tomorrow, National
Incident Commander  Thad Allen  told reporters Sunday on a
conference call. Once mud injected into the well overpowers
pressure coming up from the reservoir of oil and gas feeding
Macondo, BP may use cement to plug the well from the top.  
 The technique will make it safer to permanently plug the
leak later the month, using a shaft drilled to intercept the
damaged well about 13,000 feet (4,000 meters) beneath the ocean
floor. BP has started installing steel casing in this so-called
relief well in preparation for the injection of mud and cement
for final plugging, it said yesterday.  
 “I give a reasonable chance of success to this
operation,”  Arthur Berman , who owns Houston-based
Labyrinth Consulting Services Inc., which specializes in
subsurface petroleum geology, said by telephone July 31.
“Nothing is 100 percent, but I think we’re all hoping that
the relief well is the final solution.”  
 BP  will know “within hours” whether the injection of mud
into the top of the well, known in the industry as a static kill,
is successful, Allen said. If the plan works, bringing pressure
from Macondo to zero, it will make it easier for BP to
permanently plug the well from the bottom with cement, he said.  
 Final Seal  
 Work on a final seal would begin as soon as five
days after the static kill is completed, Allen said.  
 Success would ensure that no more oil leaks from a well
that killed 11 workers in an April 20 drilling-rig explosion,
led to a record loss at BP and prompted the departure of Chief
Executive Official  Tony Hayward . The flow of crude from Macondo
has been stopped since BP sealed it on July 15 through a valve
stack placed atop the well.  
 The pressure at the well is around 6,980 pounds per
square inch and will increase slightly during the static
kill, Allen said. BP will stop the procedure if pressure
rises above 8,000 pounds per square inch to avoid damaging
the well, he said.  
 BP  planned to finish plugging Macondo by the middle of
this month before Tropical Storm Bonnie, which forced
evacuations of drilling vessels on July 22 and caused some
debris to fall into the relief well drilled to intercept with
the damaged shaft.  
 Mud at Site  
 BP  said it will have 12,000 barrels of 13.2-pound-per-
gallon mud ready to inject into the well near the site, 40 miles
(64 kilometers) off the Louisiana coast, six times more than the
company expects will be needed.  
 Before being sealed last month, Macondo was spewing
35,000 to 60,000 barrels of crude into the Gulf, according
to a government estimate made in  June .  
 Allen said July 30 that the government will release a new
calculation within a few days for the amount of oil that was
leaking into the Gulf, as well as for how much oil has been
dispersed.  
 BP  used chemicals called dispersants to break up the
oil and contain the spill.  
 The Coast Guard allowed the company to use excessive
amounts of the “toxic” chemicals, U.S. Representative
 Edward Markey , chairman of Select Committee on Energy
Independence and Global Warming, said July 31 in a
statement. BP often exceeded amounts for which it had
sought approval, the Massachusetts Democrat said.  
 Flow Estimate  
 Allen said the dispersant-permitting process was
“very strict” and that he was in constant discussions
with the Environmental Protection Agency Administrator  Lisa Jackson  about use of the chemicals. The Coast Guard reduced
BP’s use of dispersants in May, he said.  
 “We have always worked hand-in-hand with the Coast
Guard,” BP spokesman  Daren Beaudo  said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  
 The flow estimate will probably widen from the range
announced in June, researcher Ira Leifer, a member of the
panel of scientists advising the U.S. Energy Department on
the spill’s size, said in a July 30 interview.  
 “There’s just a lot of uncertainty because there was
no monitoring system put in place,” said Leifer, a
University of California, Santa Barbara researcher.  
 The Obama administration imposed a six-month
moratorium on new deepwater drilling permits in the wake of
the spill.  
 The U.S. Senate may act on oil-spill legislation this
week after the U.S. House pushed through its version of
offshore safety and environmental rules on July 30. The
House bill would eliminate a $75 million cap on liability
for companies responsible for spills, and bar  BP  from new
offshore leases.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       BP to Begin Permanent Plug of Macondo Well in Gulf  
                       
                         
                           Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Transocean Development Driller II works to drill the backup relief well at the BP Plc Macondo well site in the Gulf of Mexico. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Transocean Development Driller II works to drill the backup relief well at the BP Plc Macondo well site in the Gulf of Mexico. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Nansen Saleri, chief executive officer of Quantum Reservoir Impact, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about the outlook for BP Plc and the oil industry.
     U.S. Justice Department attorneys conducting a criminal probe of the BP Plc well explosion in the Gulf of Mexico have recommended that a grand jury be convened and BP managers subpoenaed to determine if any laws were broken, a person familiar with the investigation said. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
