-- Brazil Trucks Waiting 40 Hours to Unload Sugar, Czarnikow Says
-- Claudia Carpenter
-- 2010-08-01T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/brazil-trucks-waiting-40-hours-to-unload-sugar-at-ports-czarnikow-says.html

          
          
             Trucks carrying sugar in Brazil are
waiting as long as 40 hours to unload their cargoes at ports for
export, contributing to a supply backlog that’s driven sugar
prices higher, C. Czarnikow Sugar Futures Ltd. said.  
 Sugar haulage costs will rise because of the delays,
Czarnikow said in a report today. Raw-sugar futures jumped 22
percent in July, the most in 11 months, as Brazil’s sugar
exports from Santos and Paranagua in the Center South were
inadequate to meet demand. Sugar stockpiles held in warehouses
are expanding because of the backlog, Czarnikow said.  
 “One other consequence of the congestion created in Santos
and Paranagua is that it increases logistics costs for the
sector which ultimately translates into higher prices for
sugar,” Czarnikow analyst  Toby Cohen  in London wrote in the
report. “Higher logistics costs will ultimately be reflected in
higher production costs.”  
 Raw-sugar futures in New York closed at 19.57 cents a pound
on ICE Futures U.S. last week. Prices climbed to a 29-year high
of 30.4 cents on Feb. 1 because of shortages.  
 Brazil’s transport network for exports is “being pushed to
the limit across commodities,” Czarnikow said. An
“unprecedented” line of ships is waiting to load sugar from
Center South ports, causing sugar prices for immediate delivery
to carry an extra premium to “ensure early dates,” Czarnikow
said. The Santos port can take in 20,000 metric tons of sugar a
day while loading equipment has the capacity to fill vessels at
a rate of 45,000 tons of sugar a day, Czarnikow estimated.  
 Buyers ‘Shocked’  
 “Delays this season have highlighted that it is Center
South Brazil’s capability to export, and not produce, sugar that
is now the limiting factor for the global sugar market,”
Czarnikow said. “This has shocked buyers who had hoped that,
with the global balance sheet returning to surplus in 2010-11,
the market would drift lower following the rally at the start of
the year.”  
 Brazil will account for 65 percent of global raw-sugar
exports in the season started in May, with total production at a
record 40.7 million tons, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture . Most of the refineries built since the mid-1990s
are “now almost entirely dependent upon Brazil for their raw-
sugar supply,” Czarnikow said.  
 About 20 million tons of raw-sugar refining capacity was
built since 1995, including in Dubai, helping to double world
trade in raw sugar, Czarnikow said. “This growth has placed
increasing pressure on Center South Brazil export logistics,”
Czarnikow said.  
 Railroads  
 Brazil’s road network is being strained partly because
other infrastructure is underdeveloped, with its railroad system
a 10th the size of the U.S., Czarnikow said. Trucks account for
90 percent of Brazil’s sugar sent to the Santos port, it
estimated.  
 Center South sugar production will climb 5 million tons in
2010-11 to 34 million tons, with Brazil’s total output estimated
at 38.65 million tons, Czarnikow said. The Center South will
account for 90 percent of Brazil’s exports, at 23.5 million
tons, it said.  
 Czarnikow has published its sugar review since 1873, and
has “commercial involvement” in trading about 8 million tons
of sugar a year for growers, refiners, traders and consumers,
according to the company.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        