-- Bulls Redeemed as Birinyi Sees Rally, Shaoul Beats 98% of Funds
-- Whitney Kisling
-- 2010-08-02T20:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/bulls-redeemed-as-birinyi-sees-u-s-rally-while-shaoul-beats-98-of-funds.html

          
          
             The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  was
tumbling to a 10-month low on July 2 as U.S. hiring declined and
factory orders plunged. At Marketfield Asset Management in New
York,  Michael Shaoul  told clients to hang on.  
 “The skill in this business is knowing when to trust your
 views ,” said Shaoul, whose mutual fund beat 98 percent of its
competitors in the past year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. “You can’t never change your mind, of course. It’s a
cyclical world. But you need to have enough conviction in what
you believe to not just be pushed around.”  
 Shaoul,  Laszlo Birinyi  of Birinyi Associates Inc. and
Federated Investors Inc.’s Philip Orlando stayed bullish as the
S&P 500 lost 13 percent in May and June, convinced the fastest
annual earnings growth since 1988 would keep U.S. stocks out of
a bear market. They’ve been rewarded as the index rallied 6.9
percent in July, its biggest monthly gain in a year, on signs
the American economy will avoid falling into a recession.  
 Now, they see more gains ahead after $908 billion was
restored to U.S. equity  markets . Companies from Intel Corp. in
Santa Clara, California, to Peoria, Illinois-based  Caterpillar
Inc.  and Harley-Davidson Inc. in Milwaukee reported earnings
that topped analyst forecasts. Of 316 S&P 500 companies that
have posted results since July 12, 77 percent exceeded
 forecasts , while government reports on building permits and
industrial production showed unanticipated growth, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Second Guessing  
 “It’s a lot easier for me to make my point today than it
was three weeks ago, when you would have been saying, ‘Really?
Do you still think that?’” said Shaoul, whose fund assets have
doubled to about $800 million this year. “We feel fairly
strongly that there is significant value in the U.S. equity
market going forward.”  
 The S&P 500 fell 0.1 percent to 1,101.60 last week after
Commerce Department data showed the U.S. economy slowed in the
second quarter. Gross domestic product grew at a 2.4 percent
annual pace during the period, compared with the 3.7 percent
rate in the first three months of the year. While consumer
spending rose 1.6 percent, corporate purchases of equipment and
software jumped at a 22 percent pace, the most since 1997.  
 The benchmark gauge surged 2.2 percent to 1,125.86 at 4
p.m. New York time today following better-than-estimated
earnings at companies from Humana Inc. to Allergan Inc. and
manufacturing data that topped economist predictions.  
 8% Gains  
 U.S. equities will probably lead shares in the developing
world over the next 10 years, returning about 8 percent a year,
 Robert Doll , the vice chairman of BlackRock Inc., said in a
statement today.  
 Profits that beat analyst forecasts at Memphis, Tennessee-
based FedEx Corp. and Motorola Inc. in Schaumberg, Illinois, and
a decline in applications for unemployment benefits gave the S&P
500 its first monthly  gain  since April.  
 Stocks rose on July 26 after  Barton Biggs , whose New York-
based Traxis Partners LLC hedge fund returned 39 percent in
2009, three times the industry average, said he was buying
stocks less than a month after cutting holdings in half.
Stronger-than-expected economic reports convinced Biggs “it’s a
new day,” he said in a radio interview with  Tom Keene  on
“Bloomberg Surveillance.”  
 Biggs was a seller before July 2, when a Labor Department
report showed private employers hired fewer people than
economists estimated in June and factory orders fell three times
as much as forecast. The S&P 500 is up 10 percent since then.  
 ‘Tsunami of Negativity’  
 “Was I concerned during the past three months?
Absolutely,” said Orlando, who helps oversee $350 billion at
Federated in New York. “The things that caused the correction
over the period of April, May, June were a tsunami of
negativity. You had literally a perfect storm where a dozen or
more items came together.”  
 The MSCI World Index  of 24 developed country stocks fell as
much as 17 percent between April 15 and July 5 and the Dow Jones
Industrial Average posted its worst May decline since 1940,
losing 7.9 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Fitch Ratings stripped Spain of its AAA credit ranking on
May 28, spurring concern Europe’s credit crisis would spread and
global growth would slow. The S&P 500 lost 3.1 percent on June
29 after the Conference Board’s gauge of consumer confidence
slumped to 52.9, trailing all projections in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Profit Growth  
 The S&P 500 rebounded after its companies reported earnings
growth of 56 percent in the second quarter, compared with the
average analyst forecast for a 34 percent increase at the start
of the period. Improving estimates from executives helped push
analysts’ projection for annual profit growth in 2010 to 35.1
percent from 33.6 percent over three weeks.  
 Intel boosted its profit-margin  forecast  for the year to a
record on July 13 when it reported second-quarter income that
beat estimates by 20 percent after corporations resumed spending
on computers. The results, which sent  shares  of the world’s
biggest chipmaker up 1.7 percent the next trading session,
signal the economy is improving, Orlando told investors in a
July 16 note.  
 “We absolutely felt that second-quarter earnings were
going to be very constructive, and frankly second-quarter
earnings have come in better than we expected,” said Orlando,
who recommends technology stocks. “The really big surprise was
how bullish company guidance has been. There’s no reason to
guide higher and miss. They could have given tepid guidance, but
they came out and guided higher.”  
 Too Early  
 Bears say it’s too early to celebrate.  David Rosenberg , the
chief economist at Gluskin Sheff & Associates Inc. in Toronto,
said June 29 the convergence in the S&P 500’s 50- and 200-day
moving averages, known as a “death cross,” signaled losses.
The index fell 1.8 percent through July 2 before starting a six-
day, 7.1 percent advance. He affirmed his bearish stance last
week, saying the rebound “has run out of steam,” comparing it
to the slowdown in declines at the end of June.  
 On July 4, two days after the benchmark fell to 1,022.58,
New York University economist Nouriel Roubini warned of more
declines.  
 “The next few weeks and months will be a time of
volatility as the market surprises on the downside,” he said
July 4 in an interview at a meeting of France’s Circle of
Economists in Aix en Provence, France. Roubini, who recommended
selling stock before the S&P 500 slid as much as 57 percent from
its record in October 2007, forecasts the global economy will
slow in the second half as Europe puts in place measures to
reduce debt, slowing demand. Roubini, the chairman and founder
of Roubini Global Economics, declined to comment.  
 Lehman Brothers  
 While the rally from March 2009 to April 2010 was led by
financial companies rebounding from losses after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed in September 2008, raw-material
producers and industrial companies have advanced the most since
July 2. To Birinyi, that means the economy is growing.  
 “I see a lot of economic-sensitive stocks, stocks that
aren’t supposed to be  doing well , a lot of stocks just not
supporting the negative case,” said Birinyi, whose firm
oversees about $300 million in Westport, Connecticut. He cited
U.S. Steel Corp. in Pittsburgh and Phoenix-based Freeport-
McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. “The negative case was built on a
lot of, let’s say, less-than-concrete data.”  
 U.S. Steel , the country’s largest producer, climbed 15
percent to $44.33 in July after three straight months of losses.
Freeport-McMoRan, the world’s second-largest copper producer,
surged 21 percent to mark the  best month  since May 2009.  
 Daily Messages  
 Shaoul, who sends daily e-mails to about 800 securities
professionals commenting on economic data and investment themes,
told clients throughout May and June that dips in economic
recoveries are normal and said a July 2 payrolls report that
missed estimates shouldn’t surprise investors.  
 “It should not be ignored that the vast majority of data
that people have taken issue with still allows for an
improvement in activity at the corporate level,” he wrote in a
note that day.  
 Shaoul said the decline was a correction in the bull cycle
and wrote on June 29 that stocks might  fall  as low as 980. While
the benchmark fell 1.8 percent over the next three days, it
rebounded from an intraday low of 1,010.91 on July 1. May and
June’s combined decline, the worst two months of the rally, sent
Shaoul’s  Marketfield Fund  to the bottom 5th percentile of its
peers for the past three months, though it beat 76 percent of
peers in July.  
 Cheap Valuation  
 Even after a 66 percent surge since March of last year, S&P
500 stocks are inexpensive relative to historic levels. The
price-earnings ratio based on reported  profits  is 15.1, compared
with a 20-year average of 20.5. Using estimates for the next 12
months, they trade at a multiple of 12.2.  
 “If you want to be bearish, you have to make a convincing
argument that we’re going to have a recession, and now that’s
very difficult to do,” said  David Bianco , the New York-based
head of U.S. equity strategy at Bank of America Corp. “We’ve
got earnings results far stronger than anybody expected, the
economy’s not double-dipping, we’re merely slowing down. We very
much belong outside of correction territory and going higher.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Philip Orlando, chief equity market strategist at Federated Investors Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his investment strategy for global stocks. 
     Orlando, speaking from New York, also discusses the outlook for the U.S. economy and stock market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Gigi Stone reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Most U.S. stocks rose, extending the biggest monthly gain in a year for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as improving data on consumer confidence and business activity tempered concern the economic rebound is slowing. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
