-- Chinese Manufacturing Grows at Slowest Pace in 17 Months as Economy Cools
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-08-01T03:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/china-s-manufacturing-grows-at-slower-pace-in-july-managers-index-shows.html

          
          
             China’s manufacturing grew at the
slowest pace in 17 months in July as the government clamped down
on property speculation and investment in energy-intensive and
polluting factories.  
 The  Purchasing Managers’ Index  fell to 51.2 from 52.1 in
June, the Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said on its
website today. That was less than the median forecast of 51.4 in
a Bloomberg News  survey  of 15 economists. A reading above 50
shows an expansion.  
 A deeper Chinese slowdown could weaken a global recovery
already constrained by the debt burdens and unemployment of
advanced economies. While growth is cooling, China’s full-year
expansion may be as much as 9.5 percent, up from 9.1 percent in
2009, State Council researcher  Zhang Liqun  said today.  
 “The Chinese economy is slowing down mainly due to the
ongoing property tightening measures,” said  Lu Ting , a Hong
Kong-based economist at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch. “Beijing
will surely ramp up spending on public housing and other public
works to stabilize growth.”  
 The U.S. economy, the world’s biggest, grew at a slower
pace in the second quarter as unemployment capped consumer
spending, the government reported July 30. From the U.K. to
Japan, government efforts to cut debt may weigh on demand after
stimulus spending revived the global economy.  
 Heavy Industry  
 Today’s PMI was the lowest since China’s manufacturing
stopped contracting in March 2009. An output index fell to 52.7
from 55.8 in June. A measure of new orders slid to 50.9 from
52.1. An export-order index fell for a third month, dropping to
51.2 from 51.7.  
 Of 11 sub-indexes, only the measure of employment gained,
climbing to 52.2 from 50.6.  
 At Morgan Stanley, economist  Wang Qing  said the slowdown
seemed concentrated in heavy industry, partly reflecting a
government campaign to close inefficient businesses to meet
energy-saving goals. This “does not necessarily reflect
weakening in the underlying economic fundamentals,” he said.  
 The PMI, released by the logistics federation and the
Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics, covers more than
730 companies in 20 industries, including energy, metallurgy,
textiles, automobiles and electronics.  
 ‘Inventory Correction’  
 China’s industrial-output growth cooled in June by the most
since 2008.  
 Today’s data showed contractions in indexes of stocks of
raw materials and finished goods, suggesting “a quite
aggressive inventory correction” as business confidence weakens,
said  Tao Dong , a Hong Kong-based economist at Credit Suisse AG.  
 Investors may be betting that the government will alter
policies if necessary to sustain the pace of growth. The
Shanghai Composite Index climbed 10 percent in July. That was
the biggest gain in a year and pared this year’s decline in the
benchmark to 20 percent.  
 Societe Generale SA cautioned last week that seasonal
distortions in Chinese surveys raised the risk of a PMI below 50.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said today that such effects typically
drag down the July number and Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. said the index has reached “a cyclical bottom” and
may rebound.  
 Government measures this year, including trimming  credit
growth  from last year’s record $1.4 trillion and discouraging
multiple-home purchases, have reduced overheating risks in the
fastest-growing major economy.  
 Property Prices  
 Growth  dipped to a 10.3 percent annual pace in the second
quarter from 11.9 percent in the first quarter and  property-
price  gains have cooled from April’s record.  
 A moderation in growth “is a desirable result, which will
lower expectations for further policy tightening,” said  Xing Ziqiang , a Beijing-based economist at China International
Capital Corp.  
 Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, has a
similar view, with Chief Financial Officer  Guilherme Cavalcanti 
telling reporters on July 30 that the nation’s expansion has
moved to “a more sustainable pace.”  
 China, the world’s biggest exporter, has been buoyed this
year by demand for shipments climbing to pre-crisis levels and
even beyond.  
 “If  exports  hold up, China’s slowdown should be moderate
and not require a reversal of policy,”  Brian Jackson , an
emerging markets strategist for Royal Bank of Canada, said today.
“But if weakness in the euro-area and the U.S. does major
damage to Chinese exports, Beijing will likely face pressure to
deliver a renewed surge in investment spending.”  
 Energy-Efficiency Targets  
 UBS AG economist  Wang Tao  said last week that economic
growth could be cut by 2 percentage points in the second half of
the year if the government shows “true resolve” in meeting its
energy-efficiency target. The goal is in a five-year plan that
has only months to run.  
 Soured loans also have the potential to limit growth.
Chinese banks may struggle to recoup about 23 percent of the 7.7
trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) they’ve lent to finance local
government infrastructure projects, a person with knowledge of
data collected by the nation’s regulator said last month.  
 -- Chinmei Sung ,  Li Yanping ,  Huang Zhe  with assistance from  Jay Wang . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Paul Tighe .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        