-- China's Manufacturing Grows at Slowest Pace in 17 Months
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-08-01T16:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/chinese-manufacturing-grows-at-slowest-pace-in-17-months-as-economy-cools.html

          
          
             China’s manufacturing grew at the
slowest pace in 17 months in July as the government clamped down
on property speculation and investment in energy-intensive and
polluting factories.  
 The  Purchasing Managers’ Index  fell to 51.2 from 52.1 in
June, the Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said on its
website yesterday. A reading above 50 shows an expansion.
A separate China PMI is due to be released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  
 A deeper Chinese slowdown could weaken a global recovery
already constrained by the debt burdens and unemployment of
advanced economies. While growth is cooling, China’s full-year
expansion may be as much as 9.5 percent, up from 9.1 percent in
2009, State Council researcher  Zhang Liqun  said yesterday.  
 “The Chinese economy is slowing down mainly due to the
ongoing property tightening measures,” said  Lu Ting , a Hong
Kong-based economist at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch. “Beijing
will surely ramp up spending on public housing and other public
works to stabilize growth.”  
 The U.S. economy, the world’s biggest, grew at a slower
pace in the second quarter as unemployment capped consumer
spending, the government reported July 30. From the U.K. to
Japan, government efforts to cut debt may weigh on demand after
stimulus spending revived the global economy.  
 Yesterday’s PMI was the lowest since China’s manufacturing
stopped contracting in March 2009 and was less than the median
forecast of 51.4 in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 15 economists.  
 Heavy-Industry Slowdown  
 An output index fell to 52.7 from 55.8 in June. A measure of new
orders slid to 50.9 from 52.1. An export-order index fell for a
third month, dropping to 51.2 from 51.7.  
 Of 11 sub-indexes, only the measure of employment gained,
climbing to 52.2 from 50.6.  
 At Morgan Stanley, economist  Wang Qing  said the slowdown
seemed concentrated in heavy industry, partly reflecting a
government campaign to close inefficient businesses to meet
energy-saving goals. This “does not necessarily reflect
weakening in the underlying economic fundamentals,” he said.  
 The PMI, released by the logistics federation and the
Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics, covers more than
730 companies in 20 industries, including energy, metallurgy,
textiles, automobiles and electronics.  
 Yesterday’s data showed contractions in indexes of stocks
of raw materials and finished goods, suggesting “a quite
aggressive inventory correction” as business confidence weakens,
said  Tao Dong , a Hong Kong-based economist at Credit Suisse AG.  
 Distortion Risk  
 Investors may be betting that the government will alter
policies if necessary to sustain the pace of growth. The
Shanghai Composite Index climbed 10 percent in July. That was
the biggest gain in a year and pared this year’s decline in the
benchmark to 20 percent.  
 Societe Generale SA cautioned last week that seasonal
distortions in China’s manufacturing surveys raised the risk of
the index falling below 50. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
yesterday that such effects typically drag down the July number
and Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said the index
has reached “a cyclical bottom” and may rebound.  
 Government measures this year, including trimming  credit
growth  from last year’s record $1.4 trillion and discouraging
multiple-home purchases, have reduced overheating risks in the
fastest-growing major economy.  
 The central bank said yesterday it will further improve
management of liquidity in the banking system in accordance with
the government’s full-year lending and money supply targets. The
People’s Bank of China will keep liquidity at an “appropriate”
level by “reasonably” combining open-market operations and
tools such as the required reserve ratio, according to a
statement posted on its website after a meeting of heads of
branches and sub-branches of the central bank.  
 Property Prices  
 Growth  dipped to a 10.3 percent annual pace in the second
quarter from 11.9 percent in the first three months of the year
and  property-price  gains have cooled from April’s record. The
government will “strictly” enforce home mortgage policies to
promote a healthy and stable real estate market, according to
yesterday’s central bank statement.  
 A moderation in growth “is a desirable result, which will
lower expectations for further policy tightening,” said  Xing Ziqiang , a Beijing-based economist at China International
Capital Corp.  
 Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, has a
similar view, with Chief Financial Officer  Guilherme Cavalcanti 
telling reporters on July 30 that the nation’s expansion has
moved to “a more sustainable pace.”  
 U.S. Weakness  
 China, the world’s biggest exporter, has been buoyed this
year by demand for shipments climbing to pre-crisis levels and
even beyond.  
 “If  exports  hold up, China’s slowdown should be moderate
and not require a reversal of policy,”  Brian Jackson , an
emerging markets strategist for Royal Bank of Canada, said
yesterday. “But if weakness in the euro area and the U.S. does
major damage to Chinese exports, Beijing will likely face
pressure to deliver a renewed surge in investment spending.”  
 UBS AG economist  Wang Tao  said last week that economic
growth could be cut by 2 percentage points in the second half of
the year if the government shows “true resolve” in meeting its
energy-efficiency target. The goal is in a five-year plan that
has only months to run.  
 Soured loans also have the potential to limit growth.
Chinese banks may struggle to recoup about 23 percent of the 7.7
trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) they’ve lent to finance local
government infrastructure projects, a person with knowledge of
data collected by the nation’s regulator said last month.  
 -- Chinmei Sung ,  Li Yanping ,  Huang Zhe  with assistance from  Jay Wang . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Nerys Avery   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       China’s Manufacturing Growth Is Weakest in 17 Months  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A textile industry worker sews clothing at a wholesale market in Dongguan. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A textile industry worker sews clothing at a wholesale market in Dongguan. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Nigel Chalk, the International Monetary Fund's mission chief to China, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for the country's currency and central bank monetary policy. 
     People’s Bank of China officials said "that with a benign inflation outlook there was less need for higher nominal interest rates at this point," the IMF said in a statement yesterday after annual consultations with the Chinese government. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Michael Kurtz, head of China research at Macquarie Group Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his investment strategy for China stocks. 
     Kurtz, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for China's economy, central bank monetary policy and real estate market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
