-- Cybozu Chief Takes Childcare Leave as Japan Encourages Stay-At-Home Dads
-- Kazuyo Sawa
-- 2010-08-01T22:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/cybozu-chief-takes-childcare-leave-as-japan-encourages-stay-at-home-dads.html

          
          
             Cybozu Inc.  President  Yoshihisa Aono 
will become only the second head of a listed Japanese company to
take childcare leave this month amid government efforts to
encourage women to keep working and increase birthrates.  
 “Raising children is such tough work and it seems
impossible in today’s world that a woman can do all the
childrearing by herself,” Aono said in an interview. “My wife
is planning to go back to work in a year and I want to support
her as much as I can.”  
 Aono, who works as long as 16 hours a day, said he wants to
set an example for male workers at the Tokyo-based software
developer by taking two weeks’ leave from Aug. 16 to help look
after his six-month-old daughter.  
 Men in Japan spend an average of 33 minutes a day on
childcare, half the amount of the average American male and the
least among the five largest developed economies, according to
Japan’s Health Ministry. The government  revised  laws on June 30
to make it easier for fathers to take leave and require
employers to allow workers with children younger than three to
work shorter hours.  
 “A couple of male employees have told me it will be easier
to ask for leave with me setting this example,” Aono said in a
July 22 interview.  
 Encouraging a family-friendly workplace is also good for
business by helping companies reduce their staff turnover rates,
he said.  
 About 10 percent of new employees at Cybozu leave in their
first year, down from 25 percent five years ago, he said. About
35 percent of the company’s 252 employees are female.  
 The government aims to increase fathers taking leave to 10
percent by fiscal 2017. Last year, 1.72 percent took time off to
spend with their children, the highest since comparable data was
introduced in 1996.  
 ‘Iku-Men’  
 On June 17, the Health Ministry started the “Iku-men
Project”  website , named after the Japanese word for fathers who
help with childrearing. The website contains details of the
government’s childcare policy and provides a forum for fathers
to share experiences.  
 Aono is the second head of a listed Japanese company to
take childcare leave, following the chief of baby-goods maker
Combi Corp., Cybozu spokeswoman Amina Asano said.  
 “This time away from work will be a test,” Aono said.
“If it works well, I’d like to take more short periods of leave
in the future.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kazuyo Sawa  in Tokyo at 
 ksawa3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        