-- Democrats Relish Battle Over High-Income Tax Cuts: Albert Hunt
-- 
-- 2010-08-01T14:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/democrats-relish-fight-over-big-income-tax-cuts-commentary-by-albert-hunt.html

          
          
             For the past three decades in
America, there have been heated fights over federal taxes.
Politically, Republicans usually win.  
 This autumn, on the eve of an election in which the
Democrats are struggling, Congress faces an epic political and
economic battle over extending President  George W. Bush ’s tax
cuts and other levies, including the controversial estate tax.
This time, the Democrats may hold the upper hand.  
 The tax cuts, scheduled to expire at the end of 2010, were
enacted during Bush’s first term. President  Barack Obama  and
congressional Democratic leaders want to extend them only for
couples making less than $250,000 and individuals making less
than $200,000; Republicans have said they will only go along
with a measure that includes breaks for the 2 percent or 3
percent of wealthier Americans, too.  
 “Raising taxes in this economy is a bad idea,” says
Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , the Republicans’ leading
economic-policy authority in Congress.  
 “We like this argument,” White House Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel  said in an interview. “We stand for middle-class tax
cuts; the Republicans are willing to hold that hostage on behalf
of the top 2 percent.”  
 This isn’t a slam dunk for Democrats. By allowing the tax
cuts for upper-income Americans to expire, opponents charge they
would be jeopardizing an economic recovery and engaging in class
warfare. Some Democrats are defecting.  
 Deficit Strategy  
 The Republicans’ difficulties are deeper. Out-of-control
deficits have become a staple of the party’s midterm strategy;
all but a handful of Republican lawmakers opposed extending
 unemployment benefits , demanding that Democrats find a way to
pay for the $34 billion one-year cost. Extending the upper-
income tax reduction would add more than $40 billion to the
deficit the first year; if permanent, it would cost an estimated
$800 billion over the next decade.  
 Yet proponents are resisting paying for these taxes.  
 Thus, Republicans are in the position of championing a
provision that benefits only the top 2 percent to 3 percent of
U.S. income earners and adds to the already huge deficit, which
the Obama administration forecasts will be $1.47 trillion this
year and $1.42 trillion next year.  
 The more articulate Republican advocates such as Ryan argue
that the top tax brackets chiefly affect small businesses.
Actually, fewer than 2 percent of small businesses fall into
these brackets, according to the  Tax Policy Center  in
Washington. And much of those are business income, partnerships
and royalties from billionaires, athletes, lawyers and
entertainers. There are few mom-and-pop corner stores or job-
creating little ventures.  
 Little Stimulus  
 The case that these tax cuts are central to economic growth
also falls apart, according to expert analyses. The
 Congressional Budget Office  examined 11 different ways to
stimulate the economy, and found extending the high-end Bush tax
cuts provides the least bang for the buck. Channeling funds to
states to avoid service cuts and higher taxes would generate
three times the economic activity, the CBO reported.  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  similarly estimates state and local assistance
would boost economic growth by about twice as much as extending
the tax cuts for wealthier Americans.  
 Almost certain to be thrown into the mix will be the estate
tax. At the start of the decade, opponents of this tax imposed
on only the richest of estates played budgetary gimmicks; the
estate tax was eliminated entirely this year and then comes back
in 2011 at the highest rate in years. Democrats want to impose a
45 percent estate tax only after exempting $3.5 million for an
individual and $7 million for a couple; this is the level that
prevailed in 2009.  
 Estate-Tax Fight  
 Republicans, with some supporting Democrats, want to exempt
up to $10 million for a couple and reduce the rate to 35
percent, arguing they’re doing it to preserve small family
businesses and farms. Two facts: At the 2009 rates, only one in
every 400 estates paid any levy and, according to the  Tax Policy
Center , there were only about 100 genuinely small business or
family farms. The more generous Republican proposal would create
about $7 billion more red ink than the 2009 rates in the first
year and more than $15 billion over two years.  
 The Democrats come to the table with two other strong
suits. One is congressional budgetary rules, which allow for
simple extension of the middle-income tax cuts. Simultaneously,
there is a requirement that an extension of the upper bracket
tax cuts must be offset with other tax increases or spending
cuts.  
 Pay-as-You-Go Rules  
 For the $40 billion extension, proponents would then have
to find massive spending cuts to finance lower taxes for the
wealthiest Americans or waive the budget rules. That’s a fight
Democrats relish.  
 The same budget rules require offsets for any estate-tax
relief beyond the 2009 levels.  
 Moreover, the Democrats have politically attractive
fallbacks if the argument that a tax increase will impede
economic progress resonates. They could make the middle-income
tax cuts permanent, while only extending those for the upper-
income for a year. Privately, some Republicans know that would
be the death knell for the upper-bracket cuts as they only have
political juice when joined with overall tax cuts.  
 Alternatively, the Democrats could kill those tax cuts for
the affluent and substitute a combination of assistance to hard-
strapped state and local governments and a dose of deficit
reduction. That would head off some tax increases from those
places and avoid laying off cops, firemen and teachers. The
Democrats have the better of this argument on deficit reduction,
stimulus and politics.  
 September Battle  
 This will culminate in high political drama when lawmakers
return in September. The measure probably will be considered
initially by the Senate. Inaction, always a favorite fallback of
politicians when there are tough fights with an election
looming, is almost impossible; even worse for these politicos
would be facing the voters with a massive tax increase on the
horizon.  
 The calendar adds one more element to the Democrats’ rare
upper hand in a tax fight.  
 ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Democrats Relish Battle Over High-Income Tax Cuts  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         President Barack Obama and congressional Democratic leaders want to extend tax cuts only for couples making less than $250,000 and individuals making less than $200,000; Republicans have said they will only go along 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     President Barack Obama and congressional Democratic leaders want to extend tax cuts only for couples making less than $250,000 and individuals making less than $200,000; Republicans have said they will only go along Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
