-- Economy Gets Healthier as Company Bond Yields Fall
-- Daniel Kruger
-- 2010-08-02T14:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/economy-gets-healthier-in-u-s-as-company-yields-narrow-to-treasury-bonds.html

          
          
             For all the concern about another
recession, the outlook for America’s economy is looking brighter
in the bond market, where investors are accepting the lowest
yields since 2004 to lend companies money.  
 Lenders typically require higher interest rates when the
economy cools and default risks rise. Instead, yields over
Treasuries on corporate debt have shrunk as much as 0.38
percentage point on average to 2.9 percentage points from the
high this year in June, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. Debt sales totaled $90.1 billion last month,
the busiest July on record, Bloomberg data show.  
 While the government said July 30 that gross domestic
product slowed to a 2.4 percent annual pace last quarter from
3.7 percent in the prior period, Prudential Investment
Management Inc., Loomis Sayles & Co. and Invesco Ltd., which
oversee $1.42 trillion, say they see strength. The Commerce
Department data also showed business investment climbed at the
fastest rate since 1997 as corporate profits rose.  
 “The market seems to feel that the probability of a double
dip has declined significantly,” said  Michael Collins , senior
investment officer at Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential, which
has about $693 billion of assets under management. “Investors
are looking at these  earnings  and assuming that eventually the
strong position that corporations are in from an earnings and
cash flow and liquidity standpoint are going to propel the
economy further.”  
 Rising Earnings  
 More than 77 percent of the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
companies that reported second-quarter profits exceeded the
average analyst estimate since July 12, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Earnings will rise 35 percent this year, the
most since 1988, forecasts show. Following the 2001 recession,
income growth never exceeded 20 percent.  
 The global default rate tumbled to 6.1 percent in June from
about 12.1 percent a year earlier, and will slide to 2.4 percent
by year-end, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  
 Investors drove U.S. company bond yields down to an average
of 4.98 percent last week, the lowest since March 2004, from
this year’s high of 5.75 percent on Jan. 4, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate & High Yield index.  
 The rally pushed returns on junk bonds above those of
Treasuries last month for the first time since April. High-
yield, high-risk debt gained 3.46 percent, the most since 5.98
percent in September. Treasuries earned 0.68 percent.  
 ‘Very Attractive’  
 “Corporate credit in particular looks very attractive,”
 Kathleen Gaffney , co-manager of the flagship  Loomis Sayles Bond
Fund , said on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” with  Carol Massar  and  Matt Miller . The $19 billion fund has beaten 95
percent of its peers over the past five years.  
 Even though two-year Treasury yields fell to a record low
0.5460 percent today, a Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland report
July 1 suggests there’s a 12 percent change of another recession
in the next year. That’s because 10-year yields are 2.36
percentage points  higher , more than double the 20-year average
and about the same as in 2003, just before GDP rose 3.6 percent.  
 The two-year yield rose 2 basis points to 0.56 percent as
of 10:04 a.m. in New York.  
 “While we’re not saying double dip, growth is going to be
slow and low, which is painful,” said Gaffney of Boston-based
Loomis Sayles. “Treasuries might be attractive as a safe haven,
but when I think about the near-term prospects with very meager
yields, lack of return, and then going forward at some point you
do get to more solid traction in the economy.”  
 Corporate Spending  
 Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, rose at a 1.6 percent pace last quarter, down from
a 1.9 percent rate in the previous three months that was smaller
than previously estimated.  
 The GDP report said corporate spending on equipment and
software jumped at a 22 percent annual rate last quarter. The
increase was the biggest since 1997 and signals confidence among
company executives.  
 The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said July
30 that its barometer of business activity for the month rose to
62.3 from 59.1 in June, exceeding the median forecast of 56 by
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Figures greater than 50
signal expansion.  
 “While there’s a concern on the economy, we still have
many customers asking us, are you ready for peak? Are you ready
to handle volume?”  Jim Young , the chief executive officer of
 Union Pacific Corp. , said on conference call with analysts and
investors July 22 after the Omaha, Nebraska-based railroad
company posted a 53 percent increase in second-quarter profit.
“I’m looking forward to continued growth here.”  
 Job Losses  
 Though corporate bond yield premiums have narrowed from
3.25 percentage points in June, they are still above the low
this year of 2.37 percentage points in April.  
 The government may say this week the economy lost 60,000
jobs in July, and the unemployment rate rose to 9.6 percent from
9.5 percent in June, according to the median estimate of 61
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Average increases of 100,000 private sector jobs a month
this year have been “insufficient to reduce the unemployment
rate materially,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said before the
Senate Banking Committee July 21.  
 A double-dip recession “is in the cards,”  David Tice ,
manager of the Federated Prudent Bear Fund said on Bloomberg
Television’s “Street Smart” program with Matt Miller on July
30. Without increased inventories and government spending,
economic growth would have been flat last quarter, he said.  
 Growth Forecasts  
 The economy is likely to expand 3.1 percent in 2010 and 2.9
percent in 2011, according to the median of 55 estimates in a
survey by Bloomberg this month.  
 Even though investors “ratcheted down” expectations for
growth, the yield gap to Treasuries “got a little too wide,”
said  Peter Ehret , a senior money manager who helps invest $580
billion at Invesco in Houston.  
 Corporations have built up cash to protect themselves from
a downturn. S&P 500 companies are sitting on a record $1.24
trillion, Bloomberg data show. Moody’s expects the global
speculative-grade default rate to decline to 2.4 percent by the
end of the year and 1.8 percent by the second quarter of 2011,
the New York-based ratings firm said July 8 in a statement.  
 “Defaults in high yield should be really minor for at
least the rest of this year and perhaps going well into next
year,” Ehret said. “If we have renewed recession, things get
worse for us. That’s an important pivot point. We don’t really
see renewed recession at this point.”  
 Bond Sales  
 Investors added $5.37 billion to global bond funds for the
week ending July 21, bringing this year’s total to $122.8
billion, according to EPFR Global, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based  research firm . High-yield funds had $948 million of
inflows the week to July 21 and $1.12 billion the prior period.  
 Junk-rated borrowers sold $16.7 billion of debt last month,
more than twice that of June, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. High-yield debt is ranked below Baa3 by Moody’s and
lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 InVentiv Health Inc.  sold $275 million of 10 percent,
eight-year notes on July 28 and borrowed $525 million from a
term loan on July 27. Proceeds will finance the $1.1 billion
buyout of the Somerset, New Jersey-based company by Thomas H.
Lee Partners LP. The notes, rated Caa1 by Moody’s, near the
lowest tier of junk, rose 2 cents to a mid-price of 102 cents on
the dollar in secondary trading the next day, according to New
York-based brokerage firm RW Pressprich & Co.  
 Similarly-rated borrowers issued $2.2 billion of debt last
month, more than May and June combined, Bloomberg data show. The
securities returned 3.7 percent in July, and 8.9 percent for the
year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  
 “The fact that these guys can access the market at
reasonable yields further postpones the next default cycle,”
Prudential’s Collins said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       James "Jim" Young CEO of Union Pacific Corp.  
                       
                         
                           Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg 
                         
                         “While there’s a concern on the economy, we still have many customers asking us, are you ready for peak? Are you ready to handle volume?” Jim Young, the chief executive officer of Union Pacific Corp. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     “While there’s a concern on the economy, we still have many customers asking us, are you ready for peak? Are you ready to handle volume?” Jim Young, the chief executive officer of Union Pacific Corp. Photographer: Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- John Herrmann, senior fixed-income strategist at State Street Global Markets, talks about corporate bond sales and the demand for corporate credit.
     Herrmann talks with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop With Betty Liu." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- David Tice, chief portfolio strategist for bear markets at Federated Investors Inc, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy. 
     Growth in the U.S. slowed to a 2.4 percent annual rate in the second quarter, less than forecast, reflecting a larger trade deficit and an easing in consumer spending. Tice, manager of the Federated Prudent Bear Fund, speaks with Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
