-- Hedge Funds Boost Natural Gas Bets First Time in Six Weeks: Energy Markets
-- Asjylyn Loder
-- 2010-08-02T20:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/hedge-funds-boost-natural-gas-bets-first-time-in-six-weeks-energy-markets.html

          
          
             Hedge funds  increased  their bets that
natural gas prices would rise for the first time in six weeks
after hotter-than-normal weather stoked air-conditioning demand.  
 Natural gas climbed every day last week, the longest-
winning streak since November, and advanced 36 cents, or 7.9
percent, to $4.923 per million British thermal units on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. Hedge funds and other large
speculators increased bullish bets by 14 percent the week ended
July 27, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission reported.  
 “These guys were on the ball,” said  Hamza Khan , an
analyst at the Schork Group in Villanova, Pennsylvania. “The
money managers were getting in. We saw a pop in prices.”  
 Investors retreated from natural-gas markets until the week
ending July 20 as prices declined 12 percent amid forecasts that
inventories will be near record highs by the end of October. So-
called net-long positions fell for  five straight weeks  to the
lowest level since January before rising last month as a heat
wave across the U.S. East Coast reduced surpluses as demand for
electricity increased.  
 Stockpiles  climbed 28 billion cubic feet to 2.919 trillion
in the week ended July 23, according to an Energy Department
report on July 29, less than the 32 billion median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 21 analysts. The increase was also smaller
than the five-year  average  of 50 billion, department data
showed.  
 Exceeds $5  
 Natural gas fell for the first time in six days on the
Nymex today, dropping 22.2 cents, or 4.5 percent, to settle at
$4.701 per million Btu. Gas traded as high as $5.007, surpassing
$5 for the first time since June 21.  
 Higher-than-average temperatures may persist this week. A
forecast last week showed that the East Coast will become hotter
in the five days starting Aug. 3, according to Commodity Weather
Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  
 Chicago will have a high of 89 degrees Fahrenheit (32
Celsius) on Aug. 3, 5 degrees above average, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in State College, Pennsylvania. Washington will
hit 92 degrees.  
 Cooling requirements in the U.S. will be 17 percent higher
than normal through Aug. 5, according to a forecast last week
from Weather Derivatives of Belton, Missouri. About 23 percent
of U.S. electricity is generated using natural gas, according to
the Energy Department.  
 Hedge funds may cut wagers on rising prices this week
because some of last week’s purchases were only to cover bets on
declines, so-called short covering, said  Tim Evans , an energy
analyst at City Futures Perspective in New York.  
 ‘Less Robust’  
 “The fact that the buying was dominated somewhat by short
covering makes it somewhat less robust,” Evans said. “The ones
that were covering shorts weren’t necessarily convinced that the
prices will rise and fundamentals are stronger.”  
 Net-long positions in futures and options combined in four
natural-gas contracts increased by 15,197 futures equivalents,
or 14 percent, to 120,837 in the week ended July 27, the CFTC
data showed  
 The measure of net longs includes an index of four
contracts adjusted to futures equivalents: Nymex natural gas
futures, Nymex Henry Hub Swaps, Nymex Henry Hub Penultimate
Swaps, and ICE Henry Hub Swaps. Henry Hub in Erath, Louisiana,
is the delivery point for the Nymex futures, a benchmark price
for the fuel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Asjylyn Loder  in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Natural gas climbed every day last week  
                       
                         
                           Jochen Eckel/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A gas ring burns on a stove. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A gas ring burns on a stove. Photographer: Jochen Eckel/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
