-- Enbridge Recovers Half of Spilled Oil, Plans Repairs For Michigan Pipeline
-- Samantha Zee
-- 2010-08-01T22:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/enbridge-recovers-half-of-spilled-oil-plans-repairs-for-michigan-pipeline.html

          
          
             Enbridge Inc ., which carries most of
the oil imported to the U.S. from Canada, said almost half of
the crude spilled from a ruptured pipe in Michigan has been
recovered.  
 Enbridge has removed 10,000 barrels of oil from the
estimated 19,500 barrels that spilled,  Steve Wuori , executive
vice-president, Enbridge Liquids Pipelines, said today on a
conference call.  
 “We are pulling volumes out of the marshy area adjacent to
the pipe spill site,” he said. “The containment phase is
mostly over, and now the focus is on clean up.”  
 Enbridge, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and
other government agencies have deployed about 69,000 feet of
containment booms, Wuori said. About 730 people are working to
clean up the river, aided by 79 vacuum trucks, 19 tanker trucks,
43 boats and more skimmers on the water to gather oil, he said.  
 The oil spilled July 26 from a breach in Line 6B into the
Tallmadge Creek and flowed into the Kalamazoo River. The 30-inch
pipeline is run by Enbridge Energy Partners LP.  
 Line 6B can transport 190,000 barrels a day of light
synthetic and heavy and medium crude oil between Sarnia,
Ontario, and Griffith, Indiana, supplying refineries including
plants operated by BP Plc, Imperial Oil Ltd. and Royal Dutch
Shell Plc.  
 EPA Proposal  
 The section of ruptured line is expected to be removed Aug.
3, once inspectors from the National Transportation Safety Board
complete their probe of the pipeline and site, Enbridge Chief
Executive Officer  Patrick Daniel  said on the call today.  
 The work involves removing about 40-feet of pipeline and
replacing it with “pretested sections” the company has
available near the site, Wuori said. Oil flow on the line won’t
resume this week, Daniel said.  
 Enbridge is also “working around the clock to meet” to
meet EPA demands in a proposed clean-up plan, Daniel said.  
 EPA officials rejected an earlier version of the company’s
proposal because “technical details” were missing among other
issues. A new submission must meet a deadline of tomorrow or the
pipeline operator may face penalties, said Susan Hedman,
director of EPA’s Region 5, on a separate conference call today.  
 No Bank-to-Bank Sheen  
 The EPA expects the emergency response to the oil spill
will end within a couple of weeks, although it will take
“weeks” to get the oil out of the river and “months” to
remove oil from marshy areas and flood plains, said Mark Durno,
the EPA’s deputy on-scene coordinator.  
 Flyovers of the river reveal “we’re not seeing bank-to-
bank sheen, although there are still areas of significant
sheen,” Durno said. “Where the creek enters the river, there
are still pockets” of oil floating on the water.  
 In addition to removing oil from the creek and river,
clean-up crews will attend to the shoreline, where contaminated
vegetation will be cleared.  
 Rainstorms are expected to reach the spill region by Aug.
3, and contingency plans are in place to cope with “the weather
event,” Durno said.  
 The EPA has authorized $5 million of its own money for the
clean-up effort so far, and is seeking more money, said Hedman
said. She declined to specify a dollar amount until the request
is approved.  
 Daniel wouldn’t provide an estimate of eventual clean-up
costs or describe the impact of those expenses on company
earnings.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Samantha Zee  in San Francisco at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        