-- Greenspan Says Drop in Home Prices Might Bring Back Recession
-- Joshua Zumbrun
-- 2010-08-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/greenspan-says-decline-in-u-s-home-prices-might-bring-back-the-recession.html

          
          
             Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said the slowing economic recovery in the U.S. feels
like a “quasi-recession” and the economy might contract again
if home  prices  decline.  
 “We’re in a pause in a recovery, a modest recovery, but a
pause in the modest recovery feels like a quasi-recession,”
Greenspan said in an interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press”
broadcast yesterday.  
 Asked if another economic contraction, a so-called “double
dip,” was possible, Greenspan said, “It is possible if home
prices go down. Home prices, as best we can judge, have really
flattened out in the last year.”  
 Slowing economic growth, and a decline in housing activity
following the expiration of a government tax credit, have raised
fears that the economy could return to a recession before
completing its recovery from the worst downturn since the 1930s.  
 The former U.S. central bank chairman said that most
economists expect “a small dip” in home prices. The National
Association of Realtors reported that the pace of home  sales 
fell in June for a second month. Homes are selling at an annual
rate of 5.37 million, and the group’s chief economist  Lawrence Yun  said transactions will be “very low” in coming months.  
 “If home prices stay stable, then I think we will skirt
the worst of the housing problem,” Greenspan said. “But right
under this current price level, mainly 5, 7 or 8 percent below,
is a very large block of mortgages, which are under water, so to
speak, or could be under water. And that would induce a major
increase in foreclosures, foreclosures would feed on the
weakness in prices, and it would create a problem.”  
 Home Prices  
 Home  prices  in 20 cities rose by 4.6 percent in May,
according to a report from S&P/Case-Shiller last week. Because
of the index’s lag in reporting, the extent to which home prices
may have slackened in June and July isn’t yet determined.  
 Greenspan’s successor,  Ben S. Bernanke,  told Congress last
month that the economic outlook is “unusually uncertain.”
Bernanke and his colleagues on the Federal Open Market Committee
will meet Aug. 10 in Washington. Last week, the Commerce
Department reported that the recovery slowed in the second half
of 2010. The economy grew at a 2.4 percent pace, following
growth of 3.7 percent in the first quarter.  
 “Our problem basically is that we have a very distorted
economy,” Greenspan said. Any recovery has mostly been limited
to large banks, large businesses and “high-income individuals
who have just had $800 billion added to their 401(k)s, and are
spending it and are carrying what consumption there is.”  
 S&P 500  
 While the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index  has fallen from its
highest levels of 2010, its July 30 close of 1101.6 is 63
percent higher than its trough in 2009. Greenspan said a
continuing rise in the stock market would further stimulate the
economy.  
 “The rest of the economy, small business, small banks, and
a very significant amount of the labor force, which is in tragic
unemployment, long term unemployment -- that is pulling the
economy apart,” Greenspan said.  
 The Labor Department will report on Aug. 6 that the
unemployment  rate  rose to 9.6 percent in July from 9.5 percent
in the prior month, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 57 economists. Greenspan said he expects
“we just stay where we are” with unemployment for the rest of
the year.  
 “There’s nothing out there that I can see which will alter
the trend or the level of unemployment,” he said.  
 Greenspan repeated his warning that fiscal  deficits  could
push up long-term interest rates and threaten the recovery.  
 Financial System ‘Broke’  
 “At the moment, there is no sign of that, basically because
the financial system is broke, and you cannot have inflation if
the financial system is not working.”  
 In an interview last month on Bloomberg Television’s
“Conversations with  Judy Woodruff, ” Greenspan said that tax
cuts enacted under President George W. Bush should be allowed to
expire at the end of the year.  
 Greenspan repeated this view on NBC yesterday, saying,
“I’m very much in favor of tax cuts. But not with borrowed
money.”  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Greenspan Says Drop in Home Prices Might Bring Recession  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         “We’re in a pause in a recovery, a modest recovery, but a pause in the modest recovery feels like a quasi-recession," former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     “We’re in a pause in a recovery, a modest recovery, but a pause in the modest recovery feels like a quasi-recession," former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said on NBC's "Meet the Press."  Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said the slowing economic recovery in the U.S. feels like a “quasi-recession” and the economy might contract again if home prices decline. Bloomberg's Peter Cook reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
