-- Michelin Chefs Cook Up Charity Dinner; Urban Turban on the Move
-- Richard Vines
-- 2010-08-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/michelin-chefs-cook-for-charity-it-s-a-wrap-for-urban-turban-food-buzz.html

          
          
             Chef  Vineet Bhatia  is searching for
a new location for Urban Turban following the closure of the
West London eatery on July 28 after 2-1/2 years in business.  
 “There was no lunch trade in that location and the
evenings got quieter after the economy slowed down,” Bhatia
said in an interview. “I’m putting all the fittings into
storage and we’ll open again when we find a good location.”  
 Bhatia is still hoping to turn the concept into a chain of
eateries serving Mumbai street food, possibly in the Middle
East. Those plans were well advanced until Dubai’s economic
woes and Bhatia, who holds a Michelin star for his London
restaurant Rasoi Vineet Bhatia, said he’s back in discussions.  
 Chefs  Pierre Koffmann ,  Angela Hartnett ,  Mark Hix  and
Herbert Berger will each cook a course at a charity dinner at 1
Lombard Street on Oct. 9. Action Against Hunger’s fourth annual
 Fine Wine Auction and Dinner  will feature a Champagne
Taittinger reception and the chance to bid for treats such as a
weekend in Copenhagen for dinner at Noma, which this year won
the World’s Best Restaurant award. For tickets at 200 pounds
($312) a pop, call Heidi Drummond on +44-20-8293-6133.  
 Tom Aikens  has quietly opened the  Somerset House  outpost
of his Chelsea brasserie, Tom’s Kitchen. “It’s one of the best
locations that you could have for a restaurant in London,” the
chef said in an interview. Once known for his hot temper,
Aikens appeared mellow. “I’m still as enthused and still as
passionate as I always have been but I would definitely say
that I don’t lose my temper over an overcooked piece of meat as
I used to. I just say, ‘OK, just put another one on,’ whereas
before I’d have been shouting, screaming, going mad:
Waaaaaaah.”  
 The  Rare Tea Co.  marks the 70th anniversary of the Battle
of Britain next month with a tea in honor of the Royal Air
Force pilots and crew who risked -- or gave -- their lives. The
special tea will go on sale in  Sainsbury  stores. Rare Tea’s
founder, Henrietta Lovell, is celebrating with a celebrity
Blitz party in a disused Tube station under the Strand.
Security means the event is limited to 60 guests, so I can’t
invite you.  
 Umu has a new executive chef as of today. Yoshinori Ishii
trained for nine years at  Kyoto Kitcho  (now the holder of three
Michelin stars) in Japan, where he headed the sashimi section.
More recently, he worked at Morimoto in New York. He replaces
Ichiro Kubota, who is returning to Japan. The top-priced
Kaiseki menu is 135 pounds.  
 Nobu is hosting a series of culinary classes at  Newlyns
Farm Shop and Cookery School , outside London. There will be a
Champagne reception and tuition by a sushi master, followed by
a five-course meal with sake, served by a geisha. Each night
ends with a firework display. The dates are Sept. 10 through
12, with tickets at 250 pounds. To book, call +44-1256-704128
or click  http://bit.ly/9VfYJ8 .  
 Anise, the bar next to Cinnamon Kitchen, is offering City
offices their own pop-up parties, complete with Indian-inspired
cocktails and snacks. You can pitch for a free celebration by
e-mailing  events@cinnamon-kitchen.com  with a 60-word
explanation of why you deserve it.  
 Claridge’s  will mark  National Chocolate Week  (Oct. 11-17)
by inviting the chocolatier William Curley to the hotel to
create his mousses and pastries, which will become part of the
afternoon tea service. He’ll host 2-1/2 hour master classes on
Oct. 15 and 17. For tickets (costing 100 pounds) and
information, call +44-20-7409-6307. Claridge’s Traditional
Afternoon Tea is priced at 35 pounds a person.  
 Goodman fans watch out: The new City branch of the Steak
House, on Old Jewry, is almost ready. While the current plan is
to open on Aug. 16, don’t be amazed if it opens sooner.  
 Waitrose has introduced a Spanish cheese in the shape of a
woman’s breast. Tetilla is a classic semi-soft variety made
from pasteurized cow’s milk. It’s mild and buttery, with a hint
of salt, the store says. Tetilla is Galician for small breast.  
 ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Urban Turban restaurant in London. The eatery has closed after 2 1/2 years. Photographer: Suzanne Plunkett via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Chocolates by William Curley. The chocolatier, whose creations are popular in the U.K., will be in Claridge's hotel for a week in October. Source: Claridge's via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The London-based Rare Tea Co.'s new "Tea for Heroes," marking the anniversary of the Battle of Britain. The company is also holding a party in a disused subway station. Photographer: Ben Cowlin/Rare Tea Co. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
