-- U.S. House Bill Would Set New Rules on Soldiers' Life Insurance
-- David Evans
-- 2010-08-02T15:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/insurers-retaining-soldiers-death-benefits-targeted-by-bill-in-u-s-house.html

          
          
             Representative  Debbie Halvorson  wants
Congress to set new rules for life insurance companies that
profit from accounts that hold death benefits from policies of
dead U.S. soldiers and veterans.  
 The first-term Illinois Democrat introduced legislation on
July 30 that would require companies such as  Prudential
Financial Inc.  to tell beneficiaries how their money will be
invested and how much the insurer stands to make from holding
the funds.  
 Her legislation follows the start of a probe by the U.S.
Department of Veterans Affairs into what has become a common
industry practice. Officials at the Pentagon and the White House
have said they’ll support that investigation.  
 Bloomberg Markets magazine reported on July 28 that life
insurance companies keep money in their own accounts, instead of
paying a lump sum directly to survivors when a policy holder
dies. The insurers pay uncompetitive interest rates and offer
misleading guarantees about the safety of accounts that aren’t
federally insured.  
 “Hearing about this, I was just outraged,” Halvorson said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “It’s corporate greed.”  
 Her bill requires the Veterans Affairs Department to
enforce the new rules and says the agency should make an annual
report to Congress to ensure that insurance companies “are
being responsive to military families.”  
 Prudential, the second-largest U.S. life insurer, is the
sole provider of life insurance coverage to 6 million U.S.
military personnel and veterans.  
 Financial Counseling  
 Prudential spokesman  Bob DeFillippo  said the Newark, New
Jersey-based company is “working with the VA to address
concerns raised about the program.”  
 While saying it is “premature to comment on this
legislation,” DeFillippo said “I must stress that we already
provide financial counseling through a third party at no cost to
the beneficiaries.”  
 U.S. Senators  Barbara Boxer , Democrat of California,
 Richard Burr , Republican of North Carolina and eight colleagues
urged Veterans Affairs Secretary  Eric Shinseki  to take action to
stop insurance companies from profiting off benefits owed to the
families of deceased service members.  
 “It is outrageous that insurance companies appear to be
taking advantage of grieving families simply in order to make a
profit, and it is an affront to the memory of their loved
ones,” the senators wrote.  
 Senate Legislation  
 Senator  Charles Schumer , who was among those who signed the
letter, said today that he is drafting legislation that would
require the VA and Office of Personnel Management to mandate
that any life insurance company providing policies to military
families must offer lump sum payments of death benefits.  
 “The last thing that family members and loved ones of our
soldiers should be worried about is whether the funds they
expect to collect from a life insurance policy will be there
when they need them,” said Schumer, Democrat of New York. “It’s
deeply troubling that insurance companies would promote these
accounts as if they were run-of-the-mill checking accounts, yet
the insurance companies profit from the interest and provide no
FDIC guarantee that the money itself is insured.”  
 Losing Loved One  
 Halvorson is the step-mother of an Army Special Forces
soldier who was injured in Afghanistan in 2008, before she came
to Congress.  
 “I know what it’s like to get a call in the middle of the
night,” she said. “The grief that comes with losing a loved
one is hard enough.”  
 Halvorson, a member of the House Veterans Affairs
Committee, said that after reading about the insurers’ practices
she asked panel Chairman  Bob Filner , a California Democrat, if
she could offer the legislation. Filner agreed and is a co-
sponsor of the bill.  
 The Illinois representative, 52, said she thinks the
committee will hold hearings after Congress returns in
September. Halvorson said she hasn’t talked to congressional
leaders about when the bill may be considered for a vote on the
House floor.  
 The Veterans Affairs Department on July 28 said it is
investigating the practice, and Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
said the following day that the Pentagon will help the agency
complete its probe.  
 “I will be very interested in the outcome of the VA
investigation,” Gates told a Pentagon press briefing.  
 New York Investigation  
 New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  on July 29 announced
an investigation of the practice, which has allowed more than
100 carriers to retain and earn investment income on $28 billion
owed to life insurance beneficiaries. Cuomo’s office has
subpoenaed at least eight insurers, including Prudential and New
York-based  MetLife Inc. , the biggest U.S. life insurer. The New
York State Insurance Department also plans to review the
legality of the practice.  
 MetLife doesn’t expect its earnings to be “materially
affected” by the investigation, the insurer said today in
regulatory filing tied to an issuance of stock. MetLife, which
is raising funds to buy a non-U.S. insurance unit from American
International Group Inc., said it believes the retained asset
accounts are lawful and their terms are adequately disclosed.  
 Families are often told that a relative’s death benefit is
being placed in a secure, interest-bearing account, and they are
given what the company calls a “checkbook” to spend the money
when they want, Bloomberg Markets reported.  
 Retained-Asset Accounts  
 Insurers place the so-called retained-asset accounts in
their own general corporate accounts and keep the difference
between the interest rates they pay out and their investment
income from bonds and other investments. The money in these
accounts isn’t guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., and the “checks” amount to IOUs from the companies.  
 Under Halvorson’s bill, companies would be required to tell
survivors how much interest the company plans to pay on these
accounts and how much the insurers expect to earn, to keep
companies from “trying to deceive the public,” Halvorson said.  
 An insurer, for example, would have to tell beneficiaries
that “you’re only going to make 1 percent, and we’re going to
make 5 percent,” she said.  
 Halvorson said these families “would never allow” the
insurance companies to keep their money if they knew how much
insurers made from the funds.  
 “Our survivors should not suffer any longer,” she said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patrick O’Connor  in Washington at 
 poconnor14@bloomberg.net ;
 David Evans  in Los Angeles at 
 davidevans@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Representative Debbie Halvorson speaks at a news conference in Washington in 2009. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's David Evans talks about New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo's fraud probe into the life insurance industry.
     Cuomo's office subpoenaed Prudential Financial Inc. and MetLife Inc. for information about profits on death benefits retained from the families of deceased policyholders including military personnel. Cuomo’s investigation was prompted by a Bloomberg Markets magazine report and follows a review by the New York State Insurance Department. Evans speaks with Margaret Brennan and Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness". (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
