-- Israel Prosperity Seen Unsustainable as Haredim Refuse to Work
-- Alisa Odenheimer
-- 2010-08-01T21:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/israel-prosperity-seen-unsustainable-as-haredim-refusal-to-work-takes-toll.html

          
          
             Moshe Linker spends his days studying
Jewish religious texts in Jerusalem, supporting his three
children with a seminary stipend, state child payments and his
wife’s teacher salary.  
 Linker is one of the almost 60 percent of Israel’s ultra-
Orthodox men who don’t have jobs. The second fastest-growing
population group in the country after the Bedouin, they have
prompted Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  and Finance
Minister  Yuval Steinitz  to assert that the haredim, as they are
called in Hebrew, may impede Israel’s prosperity.  
 The ultra-Orthodox community benefits from hundreds of
millions of shekels in public aid. The low rate of employment is
putting pressure on the economy in a way that is “not
sustainable,” Fischer told reporters in Jerusalem last month.  
 About 50,000 ultra-Orthodox men who study full-time are
also exempted from service in the military, which means they
don’t participate in an institution that has driven Israel’s
technology boom and helped transform its economy.  
 Linker, 39, says he makes an essential, if non-financial,
contribution.  
 “We live in a Jewish nation and provide it with the
spiritual energy to keep it going,” he said in a phone
interview. “That’s at least as important as the  economy .”  
 In the 30 to 34 age group, 75 percent of ultra-Orthodox
Israeli men study full-time, according to a 2009 report
published by Israel’s  National Economic Council  in Jerusalem. In
London, the only other place detailed, the figure is 17 percent.  
 The situation is exacerbated by the community’s high birth
rate. While the ultra-Orthodox now make up about 8.5 percent of
the total population of 7.6 million, they will grow to 17.5
percent within two decades, according to a projection by the
 Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor .  
 Religious Laws  
 The haredim say they strictly follow Jewish religious laws,
often living in segregated  communities , with men dressed in
white shirts, black trousers, black coats and black hats and
married women always fully clothed in dresses, wigs or head
scarves. Men and women are separated in public.  
 The Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, which Israel joined in May, urged the government in
a January report to strengthen vocational skills in the haredi
community and encourage more participation in the workforce.  
 “We can’t have an ever-increasing proportion of the
population continuing to not go to work,” Fischer said at a
July 19 press conference in Jerusalem. “So it’s going to change
somehow or the other. The question is, does that change happen
in social conflict? Can it be helped to happen consensually?”  
 ‘Critical Trouble’  
 Steinitz said at an economic  conference  in Nazareth,
Israel, on June 16 that the economy will be “in critical
trouble in less than two decades” if the ultra-Orthodox don’t
significantly increase their participation in the workforce.  
 The haredim’s current low participation directly cost the
economy an estimated 4 billion shekels ($1 billion) in 2009,
according to a June 30 Finance Ministry report. Gross domestic
product rose 3.4 percent in the first quarter, the most recent
period available.  
 Because employment is low among the ultra-Orthodox and they
have a large number of children, their contribution to the
public coffers is relatively low compared with benefits they
receive, said Omer Moav, a professor of economics at Royal
Holloway, University of London and at the  Hebrew University of
Jerusalem .  
 “Every citizen gives some and gets back some,” said Moav,
a former adviser to Steinitz. “An average haredi family gives a
small amount and gets a lot. And it’s not static. The burden on
the working population will grow and grow.”  
 Population Groups  
 Official figures don’t break down population groups beyond
religion.  Jon Anson , a demographer at Ben-Gurion University of
the Negev, said the Bedouin community is expanding at about a
4.5 percent rate, slightly faster than the Haredi growth rate.  
 Some of the Bedouin, while exempt from army service, choose
to serve, according to the Israel Defense Forces website. There
are hundreds of Bedouin in various ranks, said an army
spokesman, speaking anonymously according to regulation. He
declined to give a more exact figure, saying the army doesn’t
release specific figures relating to manpower.  
 For people such as Linker and Hillel Mann, a 36-year-old
student with five children, leaving the yeshiva, or Jewish
seminary, is tantamount to abandoning their way of life.  
 “The sages say that someone who even for one day abandons
Torah study will find it extremely difficult to return,” Mann
said by phone.  
 The government’s 2011-2012 budget proposal, approved by the
cabinet on July 16, includes enhanced job-placement, educational
and vocational programs aimed at eventually boosting ultra-
Orthodox male workforce participation to about 63 percent, the
same as in similar communities abroad.  
 Raising Growth  
 That may lift annual growth by between 0.5 percent and 0.75
percent for the next 15 years, said Eugene Kandel, Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s top economic adviser and head of
the National Economic Council.  
 The haredim “provide us with a huge growth engine,”
Kandel said in an interview. “This group has a lot of potential
in it because they know how to learn.”  
 The job may not be easy.  
 Netanyahu as finance minister from 2003 to 2005 reduced
child stipends as part of austerity programs intended also to
get  unemployed  Israelis to work. As prime minister, he has less
room to maneuver. His 74-member coalition depends on the support
of 16 ultra-Orthodox members of the 120-seat parliament.  
 “The government is paralyzed because the prime minister
has aligned with the haredi parties,” said  Menachem Friedman , a
professor of sociology at Bar-Ilan University outside Tel Aviv.
“They are the key to his coalition.”  
 More Working  
 Following the allowance cuts, haredi participation in the
workforce rose, according to figures from the Ministry of
Industry, Trade and Labor that show the percentage of such men
who were employed went up to 41.5 percent in 2010 from 33
percent in 2002.  
 Another issue is the mandatory three-year military service
for Jewish Israeli men from the age of 18. Full-time yeshiva
students are exempt under an agreement rabbis reached with  David Ben Gurion , Israel’s first prime minister, in 1948.  
 It affected 400 students at the time. Now, about 50,000
students are waived, said Yossi Tamir, head of  Tevet , an
employment initiative that includes the haredim and was started
by the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee in
partnership with the government.  
 Moshe Shwartz, a 28-year-old ultra-Orthodox man, said many
haredim “see the army as a non-kosher place. There are lots of
girls there, young men and women, and the atmosphere of pride in
the army is not something they feel is appropriate.”  
 Incubating Technology  
 Their absence leaves them out of the  Israel Defense Forces ’
role in Israel’s technology boom. The military served as an
incubator and a networking forum, helping make technology one of
the main growth engines in the formerly manufacturing and
agricultural economy, according to “Start-Up Nation,” a book
by Dan Senor and Saul Singer published last year.  
 Because most haredi men don’t get more than a basic
education in math and science, even those who want to work can’t
get jobs in the technology industry, and those who do serve in
the army aren’t eligible for the high-tech units that produce
entrepreneurs.  
 One attempt to address this is a Tevet army program for
haredi men called “Wisdom in Khaki” that offers vocational
training in computer and communications professions. The men
serve in these functions in army intelligence, and when they
finish their service are equipped to find jobs with technology
companies.  
 Tests and Scholarships  
 The  Kemach  Foundation, which like Tevet is privately and
state funded and based in Jerusalem, offers aptitude testing and
scholarships. About 2,400 men study with Kemach assistance and
about 400 men have graduated, Joel Landau, director of
partnership development, said in a telephone interview.  
 Shwartz was a full-time seminary student living in Beit
Shemesh on government stipends, his wife’s salary as an aerobics
teacher for women and odd jobs, until the birth of his first
son.  
 “I saw that either we would live with nothing or I had to
leave the yeshiva,” said Shwartz, one of 10 children of parents
who immigrated to Israel from New York. “That was very
complicated for someone like me who wanted to continue to live
according to his beliefs.”  
 Today Shwartz, a graduate of one of Tevet’s programs,
spends 40 hours a week trying to learn the English and math he
wasn’t taught in yeshiva. He is interested in political science
but isn’t sure if he can make a living from it.  
 ‘Appropriate’ Workplaces  
 More like him are ready to consider entering the labor
force if workplaces “appropriate to the ultra-Orthodox culture
and rules of conduct” can be created, said Benjamin Fefferman,
director of the planning, research and economics administration
at the  Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor .  
 This might require, for example, creation of gender-
segregated workplaces, in line with community modesty rules, he
said.  
 Parliamentary Finance Committee Chairman  Moshe Gafni , a
member of the ultra-Orthodox party United Torah Judaism in the
Knesset, agreed.  
 “The haredi population is growing,” he said. “We want to
work. We have the ability and we are not parasites. The haredim
want to work, but we don’t want to change the way we live.”  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Israel Eases Ultra-Orthodox From Yeshivas  
                       
                         
                           Ahikam Seri/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Ultra-Orthodox Jewish men are seen during religious studies at Sha'arei Hesed neighborhood in Jerusalem. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Ultra-Orthodox Jewish men are seen during religious studies at Sha'arei Hesed neighborhood in Jerusalem. Photographer: Ahikam Seri/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Israel Eases Ultra-Orthodox From Yeshivas  
                       
                         
                           Calev Ben-David/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Moshe Linker, an ultra-orthodox yeshiva student, poses for a photo in Jerusalem. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Moshe Linker, an ultra-orthodox yeshiva student, poses for a photo in Jerusalem. Photographer: Calev Ben-David/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
