-- Japan Bonds Gain, Yields Fall to Seven-Year Low on BOJ Easing Speculation
-- Yumi Ikeda
-- 2010-08-02T06:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/japan-s-bonds-may-rise-a-third-day-on-concern-economic-recovery-stalling.html

          
          
             Japanese  bonds  rose, pushing
benchmark 10-year yields to the lowest level since 2003, amid
speculation the government will persuade the central bank to
take further measures to keep borrowing costs low.  
 Ten-year  bonds  also climbed for a third day after a U.S.
report last week showed growth in the world’s largest economy
slowed last quarter more than analysts forecast, a sign the
global recovery is losing traction. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
today asked for cooperation from the Bank of Japan to combat the
nation’s rising jobless rate.  
 “Pressure on the BOJ will continue to increase with rising
concerns about a slowdown in the economy under restricted
government finances,” said  Koji Shimamoto , chief strategist at
BNP Paribas Securities Japan Ltd., a unit of France’s largest
bank by assets. “Speculation about additional loosening is
positive for the bond market.”  
 The  yield  on the 10-year bond dropped one basis point to
1.045 percent as of 3:40 p.m. at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.1 percent
security due June 2020 advanced 0.090 yen to 100.492 yen. The
yield dropped to 1.040 percent, the lowest since August 2003.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery rose 0.14 to
141.98 at the afternoon close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The
contracts climbed to a seven-year high of 142.08 on July 22.  
 Prime Minister Kan said today it’s important the central
bank cooperate with the government, and he would like the BOJ to
exert effort to improve the job market.  
 Three ‘Ds’  
 U.S. economic growth slowed to an annualized 2.4 percent in
the second quarter from 3.7 percent the previous three months,
the Commerce Department said July 30. The U.S. was Japan’s
second-biggest export market after China by the value of
products shipped during the first half of 2010, according to the
Ministry of Finance.  
 “Investors are weighing up the three ‘Ds’ of the global
economy: the duration, depth and dispersion of a possible
slump,” said  Akio Yoshino , chief economist at Tokyo-based
Amundi Japan Ltd., which manages the equivalent of $35 billion.
“Until answers to the three Ds become clear, the bond market
will remain resilient.”  
 The gain in bonds was tempered on speculation primary
dealers cut their holdings before the Ministry of Finance sells
2.2 trillion yen ($25.4 billion) of 10-year debt tomorrow.
Primary dealers are required to bid at government debt sales.  
 Ten-year yields may rise to 1.3 percent by year-end after
investors conclude the so-called three Ds aren’t serious,
Amundi’s Yoshino said. Investors buying the debt today would
lose 1.7 percent should his forecast prove accurate, according
to Bloomberg calculations.  
 Cash Reserves  
 Japan’s 10-year yields may drop toward a record as
companies hoard cash to guard against another credit crunch, MU
Investments Co. said.  
 Yields may fall to as low as 0.5 percent as companies build
up buffers against a repeat of the lending freeze that followed
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in September 2008, said
 Hiroshi Morikawa , a strategist at MU Investments in Tokyo. Rates
will slide further as cash is deposited at banks, which invest
those funds in government debt, he said.  
 The cash reserves held by Japanese businesses, excluding
financial institutions, rose to a near record as a proportion of
capital-investment needs, based on quarterly data compiled by
the Ministry of Finance.  
 “Businesses are eager to hold onto cash, which is the
legacy of Lehman’s collapse,” Morikawa said. Yields won’t rise
until investors gauge companies will soon be “substantially
gearing up for capital spending, which will then boost demand
for bank lending. That’s unlikely for at least half a year,” he
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        