-- German Stocks Advance as Commerzbank, Linde, ThyssenKrupp Shares Increase
-- Julie Cruz
-- 2010-08-02T16:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/kuka-ag-metro-ag-sgl-carbon-se-preview-of-today-s-german-equity-market.html

          
          
             German stocks  advanced with the
benchmark DAX Index extending last month’s increase, as Linde AG
rose and the nation’s steelmakers and banking shares rallied.  
 Linde  gained 3.8 percent after it reported an increase in
first-half net income. ThyssenKrupp AG and  Salzgitter AG  rose
with metal prices. Banking shares increased after BNP Paribas SA
reported net income that topped analysts’ estimates. Metro AG
fell the most in the DAX after saying its second-quarter net
income unexpectedly fell 15 percent.  
 The DAX rose 2.3 percent to 6,292.13 at the 5:30 p.m. close
in Frankfurt, its highest level since June 22. The measure
increased 3.1 percent last month, its biggest gain since March,
as demand at bond auctions in Greece, Spain and Portugal eased
concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will derail the
economic recovery. The broader HDAX Index increased 2.4 percent
today.  
 “It’s amazing how strong the market is today,” said
 Robert Halver , head of research at Baader Bank AG in Frankfurt.
“BNP had great results and Linde gave a wonderful outlook. I’m
certain there will be no double dip.”  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s U.S. manufacturing
gauge fell to 55.5 in July from 56.2 a month earlier, according
to the Tempe, Arizona-based group. A reading greater than 50
points to expansion. Economists had forecast the measure would
drop to 54.5, according to the median of 74 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  
 Growth in Europe’s manufacturing industry accelerated more
than previously estimated in July, indicating that the export-
led recovery maintained its momentum.  
 Germany Recovers  
 German plant and machinery orders surged 62 percent in June
from a year earlier as Europe’s largest economy recovered from
its worst crisis in six decades, a report today showed.  
 Domestic orders soared 67 percent on the year when adjusted
for inflation, while export orders jumped 60 percent, the
Frankfurt-based VDMA machine makers’ association said in a
statement today. In the first six months of 2010, orders rose 32
percent from the year-earlier period.
      Linde  surged 3.8 percent to 93.32 euros, the shares’
largest gain since January. The world’s second-biggest maker of
industrial gases reported first-half net income rose to 445
million euros ($586.6 million) from 248 million euros. The
company reiterated its forecast of a full-year earnings record
as a rebound in sales helped second-quarter net income climb 86
percent.  
 Steelmakers Surge  
 ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s biggest steelmaker, rallied 4.1
percent to 23.70 euros, while  Salzgitter , the second-largest,
advanced 4.5 percent to 53.58 euros. Aluminum, copper, lead,
nickel, tin and zinc all rose on the London Metal Exchange.  
 HeidelbergCement AG  rose 3.7 percent to 40.08 euros as
Jefferies Group Inc. recommended buying shares of the world’s
largest maker of aggregates used to produce concrete and
asphalt.  
 Deutsche Bank AG and  Commerzbank AG , Germany’s biggest
banks, rose 2.8 percent to 55.10 euros and 3.5 percent to 7.18
euros, respectively. BNP Paribas, France’s biggest bank, said
second-quarter net income rose 31 percent as bad-loan provisions
dropped to the lowest level since before Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy.  
 Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest carmaker, climbed 3.9
percent to 84.50 euros. Lower Saxony, the second-largest
shareholder in Volkswagen, plans to sell shares in the carmaker
to help narrow the state government’s budget deficit, Finance
Minister  Hartmut Moellring  said in an interview.  
 Metro , Germany’s biggest retailer, declined 2.4 percent to
41.60 euros, the stock’s first retreat in three days. Net income
fell to 44 million euros from 52 million euros a year earlier,
as the company spent more to eliminate jobs. Profit missed the
87 million-euro average estimate of four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 2.4 percent to 15.7 billion euros.  
 The following stocks also rose or fell in German markets.
Symbols are in parentheses after company names.  
 Bilfinger Berger AG  (GBF GY) rose 2.5 percent to 44.89
euros. The construction company may hold an initial public
offering for its Australian unit early next year, Sueddeutsche
Zeitung cited Chief Executive Officer Herbert Bodner as saying
in an interview.  
 Dyckerhoff AG  (DYK3 GY) dropped 1.7 percent to 39.50 euros.
The cement maker said first-half net income declined to 1
million euros from 45 million euros, as sales fell.  
 ElringKlinger AG  (ZIL2 GY) added 1.8 percent to 21.01
euros. The automotive-equipment supplier was raised to “buy”
from “hold” at Equinet AG, which said the second-quarter
results “have shown that the crisis is finally over for
ElringKlinger and that the company is on a good way to achieve
new record results.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        