-- Netanyahu Says Direct Talks May Restart Soon After Regional Consultations
-- Jonathan Ferziger
-- 2010-08-01T15:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/netanyahu-says-peace-talks-may-resume-after-help-from-obama-king-hussein.html

          
          
             Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said his recent consultations with U.S., European and
Arab leaders may soon pave the way for direct peace negotiations
with the Palestinian Authority.  
 Meetings with U.S. President  Barack Obama , Jordan’s King
 Abdullah , Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  and other leaders
have “created a more comfortable climate for the start of
direct talks between the state of Israel and the Palestinian
Authority,” Netanyahu said in remarks broadcast from today’s
Cabinet meeting on Israel Radio.  
 Netanyahu told Cabinet ministers from his Likud Party that
talks may resume as soon as the middle of this month, Israel
Radio reported separately.  
 Arab foreign ministers gave their backing last week to
resuming direct Israeli-Palestinian talks, which stalled 19
months ago. Palestinian Authority negotiator  Saeb Erakat  said
today that Netanyahu must still agree to stop all construction
of settlements in the West Bank before talks can restart.  
 “The minute he announces from his Cabinet that he intends
to stop settlements, we will go immediately to negotiations,”
Erakat said in a phone interview from his office in the West
Bank town of Jericho.  
 Fred Lash , a U.S. State Department spokesman, declined to
comment on Netanyahu’s remarks.  
 Aaron David Miller , a public policy scholar at the Wilson
International Center for Scholars in Washington, said the talks
are unlikely to result in an agreement that ends the conflict.  
 “They’ll produce clarity,” he said in a telephone
interview. “And clarity is not always a good thing when the
gaps between the two sides are very large.”  
 Settlement Freeze  
 Netanyahu declared a 10-month freeze last November on most
housing construction in the West Bank that he presented as a
gesture to the Palestinians aimed at coaxing them to the
negotiating table. Abbas said the moratorium was insufficient
because it didn’t include east Jerusalem and allowed housing
projects already approved to go forward. The Israeli initiative
is scheduled to expire Sept. 26.  
 Israeli President  Shimon Peres  traveled to Cairo today to
meet with Mubarak and discuss Middle East peace efforts, his
office said in an e-mailed statement.  
 In the Gaza Strip, the Israeli air force bombed a smuggling
tunnel overnight that had been dug underneath the Egyptian
border, according to an e-mailed statement from the army
spokesman’s office. The strike was in response to a rocket fired
from Gaza into southern Israel last night, the second such
incident in the past two days, the army said.  
 Cairo Visit  
 Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  went to Cairo
July 29 to present the 13 foreign ministers who make up the Arab
Peace Initiative Committee with the results of indirect talks
between Israel and the Palestinians conducted by U.S. Middle
East envoy  George Mitchell . Afterwards, the group of Arab
leaders offered support for resuming direct talks, as long as a
schedule and an agenda are agreed on beforehand, according to
Qatari Foreign Minister  Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Jaber al-Thani .  
 Mubarak met a day earlier with Saudi Arabia’s  King Abdullah . Abdullah is the sponsor of a draft peace agreement
drawn up in 2002 and endorsed by 22 countries that proposes
normalizing relations between Israel and Arab states in exchange
for a full Israeli withdrawal from occupied territories.  
 Abbas suspended peace negotiations with Israel after its
2008 military offensive in the Gaza Strip, which is controlled
by the militant Islamic group Hamas, considered a terrorist
organization by the U.S., the European Union and Israel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Jerusalem at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Netanyahu Says Direct Peace Talks May Restart Soon  
                       
                         
                           Sebastian Scheiner/Pool/Getty Images 
                         
                         Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu attends the weekly cabinet meeting in his Jerusalem office. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu attends the weekly cabinet meeting in his Jerusalem office. Photographer: Sebastian Scheiner/Pool/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
