-- New Silk Road Built by China Connects Asia to Latin America
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-08-02T04:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/new-silk-road-built-by-china-binds-asia-to-latin-america-with-global-trade.html

          
          
             The high-speed rail link  China
Railway Construction Corp.  is building in Saudi Arabia doesn’t
just connect the holy cities of Mecca and Medina. It shows how
Asia, the Middle East, Africa and Latin America are holding the
world economy together.  
 Ties between emerging markets form what economists at HSBC
Holdings Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc call the “new
 Silk Road ” -- a $2.8-trillion version of the Asian-focused
network of trade routes along which commerce prospered starting
in about the second century.  
 Today’s world-spanning web is insulating markets such as
China from the drag of weak recoveries in the advanced world and
providing global growth with a new power source.  Stephen King ,
HSBC’s chief economist, predicts the relationships will
strengthen and lists them as a reason for his forecast that
emerging markets will grow about three times faster than rich
nations this year and next on average.  
 “The potential for inter-emerging market trade is
ginormous,” said  Jim O’Neill , chief economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in London, who coined the term BRIC in 2001 to
describe the rising role of Brazil, Russia, India and China.
“That makes it quite difficult to see how you get a sustained
global recession because of what’s going on in the west.”  
 Share of Trade  
 The BRIC economies hold a 13 percent share of world trade
and have been responsible for about half of global growth since
the start of the financial crisis in 2007, according to O’Neill.
He predicted the BRICs will grow about 9 percent this year and
next compared with 2.6 percent in advanced nations.  
 Investors are tuning in. Research by  Kieran Curtis , who
helps oversee $2 billion at Aviva Investors in London, found
growing trade between emerging markets helps explain why they
now account for about 30 percent of global final consumption,
about the same as the U.S. and up from 10 percent in 1990.  
 That should increase demand for the Chinese yuan if the
government continues to loosen restrictions on settling trade
transactions with its currency, he said.  
 “Go to a market in Nairobi and you’ll see Chinese goods on
sale,” Curtis said. “If emerging market fundamentals continue
to be superior, there is the potential for serious currency
appreciation against old-guard currencies.”  
 Currency Policy  
 China’s government signaled June 19 that it will allow a
more flexible exchange rate. So far, it’s limited the yuan’s
rise to less than 1 percent against the dollar after allowing a
21 percent appreciation in the three years to July 2008.  
 Jerome Booth , who helps oversee $33 billion of emerging-
market assets as head of research at Ashmore Investment
Management Ltd. in London, said emerging markets are
increasingly starting to denominate trade contracts in
currencies other than dollars as commerce between them rises.  
 Commodity prices that may have been dropped in the past
when advanced nations grew less are now cushioned by trade
between emerging markets, said  Dariusz Sliwinski , head of
emerging markets at Martin Currie Investment Management in
Edinburgh.  
 “Commodity prices would have been much lower without the
support, which is good for the likes of Russia and Brazil,”
said Sliwinski, who helps manage about $15 billion.  
 Royal Bank of Scotland Chief China Economist  Ben Simpfendorfer  in Hong Kong says emerging Asian and Middle
Eastern economies will account for 75 percent of every extra
barrel of oil consumed or produced in the next decade, while
copper should gain because it’s a key input in infrastructure
and nickel may benefit because of its use in steel.  
 Impact on Commodities  
 The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index, tracking the
net amount investors received from 24 raw materials, climbed 13
percent last year. While the price of oil fell as low as $32.40
a barrel during the recession it has since rebounded, ending
last week at $78.95 a barrel. The cost of nickel and copper more
than doubled over the same period.  
 Chu Moon Sung, a fund manager at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset
Management Co. in Seoul, which manages $26 billion, says
investors will increase their holdings of emerging-market
equities.  
 “The populations in emerging markets, especially in Asia,
are large,” he said. “They are getting more educated and
income levels are rising, which make these countries very
attractive for companies. China is a favorite for stock
investors but we’re seeing more interest in Indian, Brazilian
and Russian markets.”  
 Gains in Trade  
 The Geneva-based  World Trade Organization  estimates intra-
emerging market trade rose on average by 18 percent per year
from 2000 to 2008, faster than commerce between emerging and
advanced nations. It totaled $2.8 trillion in 2008, about half
of emerging-market trade with all nations.  
 That performance is especially welcome now given the
sluggish recovery in the rich economies, said HSBC’s King,
author of “Losing Control: The Emerging Threats to Western
Prosperity” and a former U.K. Treasury official.  
 Chinese exports to the emerging world accounted for about
9.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2008, compared with 2
percent in 1985, he calculated. India’s jumped to 7.3 percent
from 1.5 percent and Brazil’s almost doubled to 6.3 percent.  
 Emerging-market economies will grow 6.9 percent this year
and 6.2 percent in 2011, King said, outpacing the 2.4 percent
and 1.9 percent projected expansions of developed economies.  
 Providing Protection  
 “There are now massive trade connections within the
emerging markets and they’re becoming increasingly important,”
said King in a telephone interview. “It means in one sense the
emerging world is protected from the worst ravages of the
developed world.”  
 Those ravages were born in the global recession of 2008-09
from which the advanced world is proving slow to recover, even
after policy makers cut interest rates to record lows. That’s
prompting businesses and investors to seek other sources of
growth.  
 Of the foreign direct investment flowing into south, east
and southeast Asia alone, China was a source of 13.3 percent in
2008, compared with the U.S.’s 7.9 percent and up from 0.4
percent in 1991, according to a  report  last month from the
Geneva-based United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.  
 China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy, dominates
the push into fellow emerging markets, passing the U.S. as the
biggest exporter to the Middle East in 2008.  
 Huawei in India  
 Shenzen-based Huawei Technologies Co., its biggest maker of
phone equipment, had orders of $1.7 billion from India in 2008
and said in January that it will invest $500 million in its
research center in Bangalore.  
 China Mobile Ltd. of Hong Kong, the world’s biggest phone
carrier, is “interested in doing business in Africa,” where it
can boost services in rural areas, Chairman  Wang Jianzhou  said
in a June 26 interview.  
 Elsewhere in Asia, a group led by  Korea Electric Power
Corp. , South Korea’s largest utility, beat off competition from
General Electric Co. and France’s Areva SA to win a $20 billion
UAE nuclear contract. The Saudi Railways Organization last month
awarded a contract to China South Locomotive and Rolling Stock
Corp. to supply 10 cargo locomotives. The Mecca-Medina rail
contract went to Beijing-based China Railway as part of a Saudi-
Chinese consortium.  
 Brazil in Africa  
 In Latin America, Brazil’s  Vale SA  has been on an
international spending spree, helped by booming commodities
demand from China and a currency that has doubled against the
dollar since 2003. The company estimates that its $1.3-billion
coal mine in Mozambique will have a capacity of 11 million tons
per year three to four years after it enters production in the
first half of 2011.  
 Vale in 2009 acquired stakes in three copper projects, in
Zambia, Africa’s largest producer of the metal, and the
Democratic Republic of Congo. In April this year, the company
agreed to pay $2.5 billion for iron ore deposits in Guinea,
including assets the country confiscated from the Rio Tinto
Group.  
 “We saw the same phenomenon with American and European
companies 50 to 100 years ago as they went global,” said  Shane Oliver , head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors,
which manages about $95 billion in Sydney. “Emerging-market
companies are now big enough and they have the choice of going
to developed countries where they may be more constrained or to
the emerging world where the growth potential is.”  
 Competition Rises  
 They are also jostling with each other. Brazil’s  Empresa
Brasileira de Aeronautica SA , or Embraer, is braced for
increased competition from new Chinese and Russian rivals.  
 In December 2009, 32 percent of the backlog of orders for
Embraer’s medium-range E-Jet airliners was from emerging markets,
up from 1 percent in 2005. Over the same period the company’s
backlog of orders from North America and Europe fell to 53
percent of the total, down from 91 percent.  
 “We are selling less, on a proportional basis, to the U.S.
and Western Europe, and we have a growth in sales in Latin
America, Asia and Asia-Pacific,” said Paulo Cesar, Embraer’s
executive vice president-airline market, in a telephone
interview.  
 Embraer is braced for new competition from Russia’s Sukhoi
Co. and the Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China, or Comac,
particularly in their home markets, Cesar said. Both companies
are developing civilian airliners.  
 Middle East Link  
 Royal Bank of Scotland’s Simpfendorfer, whose book “The
New Silk Road: How a Rising Arab World is Turning Away from The
West and Rediscovering China” was published last year, says the
trade ties between China and the Middle East alone make for a
modern Silk Road.  
 The original was more than  4,000 miles  (10,200 kilometers)
of trade routes crossing Asia and into southern Europe and north
Africa. Based around China’s silk industry and once traveled by
 Marco Polo , the commerce it enabled also helped power the growth
of civilizations from Egypt to Rome.  
 Governments are seeking to take advantage of the modern
version. India said in May that it will open an economic
division at its embassy in China’s capital as the two countries
seek to increase bilateral trade to $60 billion this year from
$43 billion last year. Since taking office in 2003, Brazilian
President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  has visited about 68
developing nations, more than any of his predecessors.  
 With trade nevertheless comes tension. Developing economies
in Asia and the Middle East accounted for about 45 percent of
new anti-dumping investigations reported to the WTO in 2009, up
from 22 percent in 1998.  
 Trade Tensions  
 China said in May that India shouldn’t discriminate against
Chinese telecommunication products, a month after people with
knowledge of the matter said contracts for products from Huawei
Technologies and  ZTE Corp.  were vetoed by India’s government on
national security grounds.  
 MTN Group Ltd. , Africa’s largest mobile-phone company, in
June halted talks to purchase $10 billion of assets from Orascom
Telecom Holding SAE after Algeria’s government blocked a sale of
the company’s local unit, the most profitable in the portfolio.
Orascom, the biggest mobile-phone company by subscribers in the
Middle East, also operates in Bangladesh, Pakistan and Egypt.  
 There is still scope for ties to strengthen. In a  study 
released last week, the Washington-based  Inter-American
Development Bank  concluded “massive bilateral trade” could
develop between Latin America and India if tariffs are cut.  
 Gene Grossman, who succeeded Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  as head of Princeton University’s economics department,
sees a repeating pattern of what he called the “home market
effect,” in which countries at similar income levels
increasingly trade because their consumers have similar tastes
and spending power.  
 India’s Tata Group was the second-largest investor in sub-
Saharan Africa in the six years through 2009, according to the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  
 “Once an Indian firm enters and develops expertise based
on its sales to its local market it now sees profit
opportunities in serving markets elsewhere,” said  Grossman .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
 Matthew Bristow  in Bogota at 
 Mbristow5@bloomberg.net 
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
     
         
             Chart:  Emerging Markets Arrive
         
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
