-- London Luxury-Home Prices Decline for First Time in 16 Months
-- Simon Packard
-- 2010-08-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/london-luxury-home-prices-drop-in-month-for-first-time-since-march-2009.html

          
          
             Luxury-home prices in central London
declined in July for the first time in 16 months as the recovery
persuaded more owners to sell, broker Knight Frank LLP said.  
 Prices of properties costing at least 1 million pounds
($1.56 million) fell 0.5 percent from June, the London-based
real estate adviser said in an e-mailed  report  today. They rose
17 percent from a year earlier, the smallest gain since
February.  
 Values have climbed more than 23 percent since a yearlong
price slump ended in March 2009, boosted chiefly by overseas
buyers encouraged by a  weaker pound . The British currency’s 6.3
percent appreciation against the euro this year has reduced
demand from Europeans, while owners are becoming too optimistic
about the prices their homes will fetch, the broker said.  
 “Expectations of vendors are still very high after the
rise in prices,” said Andrew Giller, who heads London property
searches for  The Buying Solution , an arm of Knight Frank that
advises and acts for wealthy buyers. “People have been
rejoicing slightly too early.”  
 The luxury slowdown mirrors the broader U.K. housing
market.  Liam Bailey , Knight Frank’s head of residential
research, predicts that a drop in the second half will cut the
2010 gain for luxury homes in central London to 5 percent.  
 Sale prices of residential property in England and Wales
rose 8.4 percent in June from a year earlier, down from the 9.7
percent annual gain in the previous month, according to Land
Registry figures released July 28.  
 Too Expensive  
 Bailey estimates that some sellers are overpricing luxury
homes by as much as 10 percent. Another sign of “over-ambitious
pricing” is that sales are achieved at 95 percent of the asking
price, down from 97 percent in May, he said.  
 The number of luxury properties for sale has increased by 7
percent since May, while the higher costs of purchasing a home
in neighborhoods such as Chelsea, Belgravia and Kensington
caused the number of buyers to fall 8 percent, the broker said.  
 Some potential purchasers have chosen to rent instead,
lifting rents for prime homes in central London by 9.2 percent
in the second quarter from a year earlier. The number of prime
rental homes fell 64 percent in the past two years as owners
decided to sell, Knight Frank research shows.  
 Properties priced at 3 million pounds to 5 million pounds
were most affected by July’s drop in values after they had the
biggest gains in the past 15 months. Overall, values are still
6.1 percent below the March 2008 peak, the broker said.  
 Knight Frank compiles its luxury-homes index from estimated
values of properties in the Mayfair, St. John’s Wood, Regent’s
Park, Kensington, Notting Hill, Chelsea, Knightsbridge,
Belgravia and South Bank neighborhoods of London.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       London Luxury-Home Prices Decline for First Time in 16 Month  
                       
                         
                           Jason Alden/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Values have climbed more than 23 percent since a yearlong price slump ended in March 2009, boosted chiefly by overseas buyers encouraged by a weaker pound. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Values have climbed more than 23 percent since a yearlong price slump ended in March 2009, boosted chiefly by overseas buyers encouraged by a weaker pound.  Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
