-- Silent Beauty Divides Experts, May Be $150 Million Da Vinci
-- Martin Gayford
-- 2010-08-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/silent-beauty-splits-experts-may-be-150-million-da-vinci-martin-gayford.html

          
          
             For the second time in a century, a
high-profile case in the New York courts is set to turn on the
question, “How can you tell an authentic  Leonardo da Vinci ?”  
 It’s a more delicate matter than you might imagine. Jeanne
Marchig, the previous owner of a drawing that went under the
hammer at Christie’s International, New York, in January 1998,
is suing the auction house for “negligent misattribution.”  
 “Christie’s strongly disagrees with these claims and
believes they are without merit,” a spokesman for the London-
based company stated to Bloomberg News on July 26. “The
continuing debate surrounding this work has seen a significant
number of the world’s leading academics and critics continue to
cast doubt on the alleged attribution to Leonardo.” Cataloged
as “German, 19th century,” the work sold for $21,850 and was
resold in 2007 for about $20,000, according to the suit.  
 Since 1998, a number of leading authorities -- notably
Martin Kemp, emeritus professor of art history at  Oxford
University  -- have identified it as a hitherto unknown
masterpiece by Leonardo. It has been estimated that, as a
Leonardo, the work is worth $150 million.  
 That estimate, given by Otto Naumann, a New York dealer in
Old Masters, to Milton Esterow in the January issue of the
magazine Art News, was “contingent upon uncontested
attribution.” That’s hard to achieve in cases like this. Look
out for fireworks when expert witnesses take the stand.  
 Expert Eye  
 For example, counts of authentic  Michelangelo  drawings by
renowned scholars vary from a conservative 30-40 to more than
700. What makes the difference? Evidence, of course, comes into
it -- type of pen stroke, methods of shading -- but it also
comes down in the end to opinion: the “eye” of the expert.  
 It’s the same in the case of the disputed Leonardo, dubbed
“La Bella Principessa” by Kemp. There are scientific
findings. The vellum -- or treated animal skin -- on which it’s
drawn is from 1440-1650 according to carbon dating. The drawing
is by a left-handed artist, which Leonardo was. A partial
fingerprint on it is a match for another on a more definite
Leonardo.  
 In the end, though, it comes down to judgment of quality
and style. That is, whether the work -- which has been restored
in the past more than once -- is drawn in the way that Leonardo
drew. And secondly, whether it’s good enough to be by him.  
 Those are both subjective calls. Kemp answers a firm yes
to both. He has, he writes in a book on the subject (“La Bella
Principessa: The Story of the New Masterpiece by Leonardo da
Vinci,” Hodder & Stoughton), “not the slightest doubt” that
this is “a masterpiece by Leonardo da Vinci.” Others are not
so sure. Off the record, many in the art world express doubt
about the Principessa.  
 Hung Jury  
 The last big Leonardo case in New York was in 1929. Then
the plaintiffs were Mr. and Mrs. Harry Hahn, Franco-American
owners, they claimed, of the authentic version of Leonardo’s
portrait known as “La Belle Ferronniere.” Questioned by a New
York journalist, the Old Master dealer Joseph Duveen flatly
stated that the authentic painting was the one in the Louvre
and that this was a copy. The owners sued for $500,000.  
 Duveen marshaled batteries of experts, who fared badly
when cross-examined in the witness box. Statements such as
“the impression produced on my mind is that it is not by
Leonardo” did not impress the court, the jury was hung, and
Duveen eventually agreed to pay $60,000.  
 More than 80 years later, there’s still no complete
agreement about “La Belle Ferronniere.” Most scholars believe
the  Louvre  work is a genuine Leonardo, with perhaps a little
help from assistants. Some still have doubts even about that
(the Louvre picture will be included in an exhibition of
Leonardo paintings at the National Gallery, London, in 2011-
12).  
 Meanwhile, the other version, once disdained by Duveen,
sold at a Sotheby’s New York auction in January for $1.5
million -- not much for a genuine Leonardo, quite a lot for
something that isn’t. The case of “La Bella Principessa”
could run and run.  
 ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     "La Bella Principessa," c. 1495, attributed by some scholars to Leonardo da Vinci. The drawing is in the exhibition "And There Was Light" at the Eriksbergshallen, in Gothenburg, Sweden, through Aug. 15. Source: Private collection via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "La Belle Ferroniere," c. 1490, by Leonardo da Vinci. It will be on show in an exhibition of Leonardo's early paintings at the National Gallery, London from Nov. 9, 2010 through Feb. 5, 2012. Photographer: Franck Raux/Reunion des Musees Nationaux (RMN) via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
