-- Singapore Lures Russia Borrowers as Falling Yields Lead VTB to Double Sale
-- Katrina Nicholas
-- 2010-08-02T15:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/singapore-lures-russian-borrowers-as-vtb-doubles-country-s-debut-bond-sale.html

          
          
             VTB Group, Russia’s second-largest
bank, is pressing companies in the country to seek financing in
Singapore after doubling its own bond sale in the Asian nation.  
 VTB of Moscow sold 400 million Singapore dollars ($295
million) of two-year notes on July 30 at a yield of 4.2 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s U.S.
dollar bonds due in 2012 yield 4.6 percent while the bank’s
ruble debt due in 2013 yields 7.7 percent. VTB had initially
sought 150 million Singapore dollars, said  Andrey Solovyev , the
London-based head of debt capital markets at VTB Capital, the
investment banking unit that arranged the deal.  
 “We have already held preliminary talks with some
companies and now, after such a successful placement, these
talks are likely to be more active,” Solovyev said in a
telephone interview after the sale.  
 Singapore dollar bond sales more than doubled this year to
$9.8 billion from $4.5 billion in the same period of 2009 as
issuers take advantage of tumbling borrowing costs, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The Singapore government’s benchmark
3.5 percent dollar bonds due 2012 yield 0.437 percent today,
near a record low, compared to 0.82 percent in January. The
yield on Singapore Airlines Ltd.’s 4.15 percent notes due
December 2011 tumbled to a low of 1.21 percent today from 3.459
percent a year ago and 2.655 percent in January, according to
the data.  
 ‘More Space’  
 “There is clearly more space to sell top-rated Russian
corporate debt to the Asian institutional and retail client base
in Singapore and Hong Kong, as spreads among top-rated Asian
corporates trade lower and lower,” said  Luis Costa , emerging-
market debt strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London.  
 VTB’s sale is the first in Singapore by an issuer outside
the Asia Pacific region since September when Rotterdam,
Netherlands-based tank terminal operator  Royal Vopak NV  issued
210 million Singapore dollars of five-year bonds, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. VTB’s is also the only Russian bond to target
Asia investors other than a Japanese yen sale by Moscow-based
gas company  OAO Gazprom  in 2007.  
 The Russian bank is also considering selling yen-
denominated bonds and may sell debt in Hong Kong dollars as
early as this year to diversify its sources of funding,  Herbert Moos , VTB Group’s deputy chairman, said in a telephone interview
today.  
 Singapore investors bought 82 percent of the VTB securities
and Hong Kong buyers accounted for 7 percent, Solovyev said.
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp Ltd. in Singapore co-managed the
sale with VTB.  
 ‘Advantageous’  
 The sale was “advantageous not only from the point of view
of widening the investor base, but from the standpoint of lower
funding costs,” Solovyev said. “Other Russian issuers are
likely to follow us.”  
 VTB debt is rated Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service, its
third-lowest investment grade rating, and one step lower at BBB
by Standard & Poor’s, the same level as the Russian government.  
 “Clearly, this market is limited to investment-grade
issuers, but there is no shortage of them in Russia,” Solovyev
said.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 14 basis points to 225 today,
according to JPMorgan EMBI+ indexes. The difference is larger
than the spread of 145 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and
205 for Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by
Moody’s.  
 The  yield  spread on Russian bonds over Treasuries is 48
basis points below the average for emerging markets, down from a
15-month high of 105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  
 Default Swaps  
 The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps fell 2 basis points to 162
on July 30 and dropped 33 for the month, according to data
compiled by data provider CMA. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Russian credit-default swaps cost the same as contracts for
Turkey, which is rated four levels lower at Ba2 by Moody’s
Investors Service. That  difference  has narrowed from 40 basis
points on April 20.  
 The ruble gained 0.6 percent to 30.0950 per dollar in
Moscow trading today, its strongest closing level since May 13.
That added to last month’s 3.2 percent advance. Non-deliverable
forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to expectations of
currency movements as they allow foreign investors and companies
to fix the exchange rate at a specific level in the future, show
the ruble at 30.2413 per dollar in three months.  
 The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell 23
basis points to 4.667 percent, the lowest level since they were
sold in April.  
 Rising Currency  
 VTB has a branch in Singapore with more than 30 staff to
serve corporate clients, Solovyev said. The three-month
Singapore interbank offered rate, or  Sibor , fell to 0.46583
percent today from a 52-week high of 0.54667 percent on May 27,
according to the city-state’s Association of Banks.  
 The Russian lender will use some of the funds raised to
help finance its Singapore operations and will convert the rest
into U.S. dollars and rubles, according to Moos.  
 The country’s relatively low costs may attract
international borrowers, according to  Thomas Harr , a Singapore-
based currency strategist at Standard Chartered Plc. The
Singapore dollar has climbed 3.7 percent against the greenback
this year.  
 “For a foreign company with a representative office or
operations here, issuing Singapore dollar bonds makes perfect
sense from an asset or liability standpoint,” said  Brayan Lai ,
a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at Credit Agricole CIB. “The
Singapore government has been trying to deepen the Singapore
dollar bond market to invite more capital inflows and to
position Singapore as a financial center.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net 
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Andrei Kostin, chief executive officer of VTB Group  
                       
                         
                           Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Andrei Kostin, chief executive officer of VTB Group, pauses during a meeting in St.Petersburg. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Andrei Kostin, chief executive officer of VTB Group, pauses during a meeting in St.Petersburg. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
