-- South Korea, U.A.E. to Cooperate on Energy Exploration, Stockpiling of Oil
-- Ayesha Daya
-- 2010-08-02T08:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/south-korea-u-a-e-to-cooperate-on-energy-exploration-stockpiling-of-oil.html

          
          
             South Korea and the United Arab
Emirates agreed to cooperate on energy exploration and
stockpiling of crude oil, deepening ties after the Asian nation
won a $20 billion contract to build nuclear plants in Abu Dhabi.  
 State-run  Korea National Oil Corp.  and Abu Dhabi National
Oil Co. signed a preliminary agreement today at the headquarters
of Anyang, South Korea-based KNOC, South Korea’s Ministry of
Knowledge Economy said today. They will form a team to study the
possibility of exploring for oil and gas in Abu Dhabi and will
discuss a plan for Abu Dhabi National to use storage facilities
owned by KNOC, the ministry said in a statement.  
 KNOC is joining international oil companies such as Exxon
Mobil Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell Plc that have traditionally
been present in the country, the fourth-largest crude producer
in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. South
Korea and the U.A.E. are expanding economic cooperation after
state-controlled  Korea Electric Power Corp.  beat General
Electric Co. and Areva SA to win the emirate’s first nuclear
power plant contract in December.  
 “South Korea isn’t in the ‘Abu Dhabi club’ of companies
such as Exxon and Shell that have big oil concessions and have
traditionally won new contracts,”  Thaddeus Malesa, a Dubai-
based analyst at PFC Energy, said. “The Koreans are going to
have a much larger presence in the U.A.E., in energy and also in
manufacturing, which is a direct result of the nuclear deal.”  
 Abu Dhabi, holder of most of the U.A.E.’s hydrocarbon
reserves, will be reviewing contracts for concessions held by
foreign oil companies which are due for renewal within the next
five years. It plans to boost oil output capacity to 3.5 million
barrels a day, from about 2.8 million.  
 Crude-Oil Storage  
 The Persian Gulf nation is in talks with South Korea to use
about 10 million barrels of crude-oil storage capacity, JoongAng
Ilbo newspaper reported in May. The U.A.E. exported 96 percent
of its oil to Asia and the Pacific last year, according to
OPEC’s  Annual Statistical Bulletin .  
 South Korea has 146 million barrels of oil storage
capacity, enough to meet the nation’s consumption for 158 days,
according to the ministry. The nation, which imports almost all
of its energy requirements, has spent 2.46 trillion won ($2.1
billion) building oil-reserve facilities since 1980 after
experiencing fuel shortages during the 1970s oil crisis.  
 South Korean companies have increased their presence in the
U.A.E. this year. Korea Electric awarded construction contracts
to build four nuclear plants in the emirate by 2020 to companies
including Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. and Samsung C&T
Corp., while Samsung Engineering Co. won a contract for $1.5
billion to provide utilities for Abu Dhabi’s sour gas project.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net ;
 Ayesha Daya  in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        