-- South Korean Man Killed by Land Mine That Drifted Over North Korean Border
-- Bomi Lim
-- 2010-08-01T06:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/south-korean-man-killed-by-land-mine-that-drifted-over-north-korean-border.html

          
          
             A South Korean man was killed and
another injured by a North Korean land mine that may have
drifted south after being swept into a river by heavy rains, a
military official said.  
 The men found two wooden boxes containing mines while
fishing near the North Korea border late yesterday, an official
at the Joint Chiefs of Staff said today by telephone in Seoul.
One mine exploded, killing one man instantly, said the official,
who declined to be named because of department policy.  
 The Associated Press reported the incident earlier today.  
 As many as 11 land mines, packed in wooden boxes, have
been discovered since a device was found near the maritime
border with North Korea on July 30, the official said. All of
the mines were safely exploded and the military is searching
for more, he said.  
 The military also found 18 wooden boxes that were empty,
according to the official. The boxes may have floated across
the border after rains in North Korea, he said, adding that
such cases often occur. It was unlikely North Korea
intentionally released the land mines, the official said.  
 Torrential rain hit areas of North Korea on July 22-23,
the state-run Korean Central News Agency reported at the time.  
 A South Korean warship sank near the western maritime
border on March 26, in a torpedo attack an international panel
blamed on North Korea. South Korea remains technically at war
with North Korea after their 1950-53 war ended in a cease-fire
which was never replaced by a peace treaty.  
 The countries are divided by the Demilitarized Zone, 4
kilometers (2.5 mile) wide, strewn with barbed wire and land
mines, that stretches across their full 248-kilometer border.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        