-- South Korea's Consumer Prices Increased 2.6% in July, Remain Within Target
-- Shinhye Kang
-- 2010-08-01T23:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/south-korea-s-consumer-prices-increased-2-6-in-july-from-a-year-earlier.html

          
          
             South Korea’s inflation rate stayed
within the central bank’s target even as prices of agricultural
and oil products increased in July.  
 The consumer price  index  rose 2.6 percent from a year
earlier, matching the June result and median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of nine economists, statistics office
figures showed in Gwacheon. Prices rose 0.3 percent from June.  
 South Korea’s economy grew 1.5 percent in the second
quarter after a weaker won and the global recovery buoyed
exports. The expansion has stoked a policy challenge by adding
to the case for higher rates even as the local property market
struggles. The construction industry suffered its worst annual
contraction last quarter since 2008 amid falling home prices.  
 “Inflation is not a big concern at the moment as it is
well within the central bank’s target range,”  Oh Suk Tae , an
economist at SC First Bank Korea Ltd. in Seoul, said before the
release. “The Bank of Korea faces a dilemma in raising rates
further as the economy grows fast while inflation remains stable
with home prices falling.”  
 South Korea raised borrowing costs last month, joining
India, Malaysia, Thailand and Taiwan in boosting rates as price
pressures outweighed concern that the global economic recovery
is slowing. Today’s inflation reading is within the Bank of
Korea’s target of between 2 percent and 4 percent on average
through 2012.  
 Currency, Shares  
 The won gained 0.3 percent to close last week at 1,182.75
per dollar in Seoul. South Korea’s currency has fallen 6.3
percent over the past three months, Asia’s worst performer. The
benchmark Kospi stock index fell 0.65 percent to 1,759.33.  
 Gains in consumer prices will likely come from government
plans to raise electricity, gas and bus fares over August and
September. Electricity prices will rise in August by an average
3.5 percent amid higher fuel costs and losses by state-run
utilities. Gas prices will climb an average 4.9 percent in
September.  
 Inter-city bus fares will increase by an average 4.3
percent and express bus costs by 5.3 percent, the  Finance
Ministry  said last week.  
 The increase in power and gas prices will add about 0.1
percentage point to inflation, Finance Ministry Director General
 Yoon Jong Won  said July 30. Inflation will accelerate to more
than 3 percent in the fourth quarter, the director general said.  
 Power Prices  
 The ministry forecasts 2.9 percent inflation for 2010. The
prediction already reflected the increase in electricity and gas
tariffs, Yoon said.  
 The central bank raised interest rates from a record-low 2
percent to 2.25 percent last month, and forecast that consumer
prices will rise 2.8 percent this year and 3.4 percent in 2011.
The economy has approached “its potential output level” and
may face inflation pressure, Central Bank Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said on July 9.  
 South Korea’s export-driven economy will grow 5.9 percent
this year, more than the 5.2 percent predicted in April, the
central bank said on July 12. Rising global demand and a weaker
won are helping companies from  Samsung Electronics Co.  to
 Hyundai Motor Co.  report record profits.  
 Recent data have signaled Asia’s fourth-largest economy is
weathering risks to the global recovery from Europe’s debt woes,
elevated U.S. unemployment and a slowdown in China.  
 Exports , which make up about half of the economy, increased
for a ninth month in July on demand for the nation’s cars,
electronic goods and semiconductors.  
 Overseas shipments increased a faster-than-expected 29.6
percent from a year earlier, the Ministry of Knowledge Economy
said yesterday. Imports climbed 28.9 percent, leaving a trade
surplus of $5.7 billion.  
 Core prices, which exclude oil and food, rose 1.7 percent
from a year earlier after a 1.7 percent gain in June. Prices for
agricultural, dairy and fisheries goods rose 7.5 percent. Prices
for oil products climbed 8.4 percent, today’s report showed.  
 -- With assistance from  Michael Munoz  in Hong Kong. Editors:
 Sunil Jagtiani ,  Chris Anstey   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        