-- South Korea Says Exports Rose 29.6% in July, Increasing for Ninth Month
-- Eunkyung Seo
-- 2010-08-01T01:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/south-korea-says-exports-increased-29-6-in-july-from-a-year-earlier.html

          
          
             South Korea’s exports increased for a
ninth month in July as weakness in the won and the global
economic recovery boosted demand for the nation’s cars,
electronic goods and semiconductors.  
 Overseas shipments  increased 29.6 percent from a year
earlier, the Ministry of Knowledge Economy said today in an e-
mailed statement. That compared with the median estimate for a
27.4 percent gain in a Bloomberg News  survey  of eight economists.
 Imports  climbed 28.9 percent, leaving a trade surplus of $5.7
billion.  
 Companies from  Samsung Electronics Co.  to  Hyundai Motor Co. 
reported record second-quarter earnings as a fall in the won
buoyed export competitiveness. In the second quarter, South
Korea’s economy grew a faster-than-expected 1.5 percent from
three months earlier.  
 The weakness in the nation’s currency will likely continue
to “help exporters,” said  Park Sang Hyun , an economist at HI
Investment & Securities Co. Steady economic growth may persuade
the central bank to raise rates again as early as this month, he
said.  
 The Bank of Korea boosted borrowing costs by 25 basis
points to 2.25 percent on July 9, the first increase since the
global financial crisis, as Asia’s fourth-largest economy
weathers risks to the world recovery.  
 Won Boost  
 The economy’s resilience has spurred demand for the
nation’s assets, with the won heading for a gain of about 3
percent in July, the biggest monthly advance since September
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The won reached a five-week high of 1,181.33 on July 27
before retreating the next day as traders said the Bank of Korea
bought dollars to counter the appreciation.  
 South Korea’s currency gained 0.3 percent to close last
week at 1,182.75 per dollar in Seoul. The benchmark Kospi stock
index fell 0.65 percent to 1,759.33.  
 Exports account for about half of South Korea’s gross
domestic product, which advanced 7.2 percent from a year earlier
in the second quarter.  
 Overseas shipments have boosted South Korea’s economic
recovery and contagion from Europe’s debt woes has been
“mild,” with GDP growth likely to approach 6 percent this year,
Moody’s Investors senior vice-president  Tom Byrne  said July 28.  
 Export Regions  
 South Korea’s exports to Europe rose 56.9 percent in the
first 20 days of July from a year earlier, a report from the
economy ministry showed today.  
 Exports to China, the biggest buyer of South Korean goods,
gained 36.8 percent and shipments to the U.S. advanced 49.3
percent.  
 Overseas shipments of semiconductors climbed 70.6 percent
last month and display-panel sales increased 29.8 percent, the
ministry said. Exports of cars rose 49.7 percent and ships
gained 37.3 percent.  
 South Korea’s current-account surplus widened to a one-year
high in June of $5.04 billion, from a revised $3.82 billion in
May. The current account is the broadest measure of
international trade, tracking goods, services and investment
income. The surplus was the biggest since June 2009.  
 July’s current-account surplus will be similar to June’s on
robust exports, Lee Young Bog, a central bank official, said
July 28.  
 The central bank has forecast a surplus of $21 billion in
2010, compared with an April estimate of $10.5 billion and a
record surplus of $42.7 billion last year. The economy ministry
said today it will release its export-growth forecast for the
remainder of the year in early September.  
 Price Pressure  
 The Bank of Korea said in July that consumer prices will
rise 2.8 percent this year, compared with the previous estimate
of 2.6 percent, and 3.4 percent in 2011.  
 Asia’s fourth-largest economy after Japan, China and India
will raise power and gas tariffs over August and September for
the first time in more than a year, adding to price pressures
and the case for a further increase in interest rates.  
 Central banks from Taiwan to Thailand, Malaysia and India
have also boosted borrowing costs as rising inflation outweighs
concern about the impact on exports of Europe’s fiscal woes,
elevated U.S. unemployment and a slowdown in China.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       S. Korea Exports Rise for Ninth Month, Gaining 29.6%  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A Hyundai Sonata Hybrid sits on display following its debut. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A Hyundai Sonata Hybrid sits on display following its debut. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
