-- Spain Proceeds With Plans to Cut Solar Subsidies After Talks Break Down
-- Ben Sills
-- 2010-08-01T12:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/spain-proceeds-with-plans-to-cut-subsidies-for-new-solar-power-stations.html

          
          
             Spain is proceeding with plans to cut
prices for solar power from new generators, the Industry
Ministry said, after talks on broader changes to renewable
energy subsidies broke down last week.  
 Prices for power from ground-based panels may be cut by 45
percent while photovoltaic generators mounted on large roofs
face a 25 percent reduction and plants on small roofs will see a
5 percent cut, the ministry said in a statement.  
 The price cuts are included in a draft law sent to the
national energy regulator for consultation.  
 Discussions on broader changes to subsidies for solar power
were suspended after ministers and company executives failed to
agree on prices for existing plants. Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero ’s government wants to keep a lid on
electricity costs by paring back a 2007 law granting above-
market prices for clean-energy producers.  
 Spain’s 52,000 photovoltaic-panel installations earn as
much as 440 euros ($573) a megawatt-hour, or almost 10 times the
futures price for 2011 power in the wholesale market.  
 A spokesman for Industry Minister  Miguel Sebastian  said in
April the government may cut the rate paid to existing plants in
addition to ones yet to be built, as the government seeks to
boost the competitiveness of Spanish industry by reining in
power prices.  
 Funds including London-based HG Capital and Denmark’s AP
Pensions have argued that the government was reneging on its
legal obligation to maintain the subsidies for 25 years.  
 The Spanish Banking Association estimated domestic banks
have loaned 40 billion euros to renewable-energy projects. Some
600 photovoltaic plant operators may face bankruptcy if the
subsidies are cut, the Photovoltaic Industry Association has
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        