-- Mullen Says Leaks Don't Reflect Gains in Afghanistan War, Strategy Change
-- Kelly Riddell
-- 2010-08-01T14:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/mullen-says-leaks-don-t-reflect-gains-in-afghanistan-war-strategy-change.html

          
          
             Leaked documents on the nine-year-old
U.S. war in Afghanistan don’t reflect recent gains and an
improved strategy, the chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of
Staff said.  
 “I certainly understand -- it is the ninth year, it is a
long time, the sacrifices have been significant,” Admiral
 Michael Mullen  said in an interview on “Meet the Press” on
NBC. “Yet, at the same time, I think the strategies are right.
And the release of these documents, best that I can tell, have
not affected the strategy. Many of them were very, very old.”  
 Mullen was responding to the publication last week by
 WikiLeaks.org  of more than 91,000 secret U.S. military reports
from Afghanistan.  
 “I remain appalled,” he said on NBC. “The potential for
the loss of lives of American soldiers or coalition soldiers or
Afghan citizens is clearly there.”  
 Republican Senator  Lindsey Graham , a member of the Armed
Services Committee and a former Air Force lawyer, said those
responsible for the leaks “should be court-martialed.”  
 Their “crime is undercutting those who are in the fight,”
and they “have put at risk people who have chosen to help us in
Afghanistan,” Graham, of South Carolina, said on CNN’s “State
of the Union” program.  
 ‘Right Strategy’  
 Mullen, asked whether the leak documents show the war to be
unwinnable, said, “We really are at a time in Afghanistan,
after the president’s review, where we’ve got the right
strategy, the right leadership, and the right resources.”  
 The new strategy for Afghanistan that President  Barack Obama  announced last year includes more U.S. troops and a focus
on al-Qaeda and Taliban safe havens in Pakistan.  
 One theme through the leaked reports is the allegation that
Pakistan’s military spy agency, Inter-Services Intelligence, is
secretly aiding the Taliban and allied Islamic militant rebels
who are fighting the U.S.  
 “That there are elements of the Pakistani intelligence
agency that are connected or have had relationships with
extremists is certainly known, and that has to change,” Mullen
said.  
 Recent Visit  
 He said he recently spent time in Pakistan with General
Ashfaq  Parvez Kayani , leader of that nation’s security policy
and a former head of the spy agency.  
 “He has actually directed his military to take on the
insurgent threat in his own country,” and “he’s made great
strides,” Mullen said.  
 Mullen declined to comment on the status of the
investigation by the Pentagon and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation into the leak of the documents.  
 Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , interviewed on ABC’s “This
Week” program, said he is looking for ways to minimize the risk
of future leaks without denying troops needed intelligence.  
 “We’re going to look at, are there ways in which we can
mitigate the risk, but without denying the forward soldiers the
information,” Gates said.  
 The defense secretary said he was “mortified, appalled”
by the leak.  
 “It puts our soldiers at risk” because “our adversaries
can learn a lot about our techniques, tactics and procedures
from the body of these leaked documents,” he said.  
 Gates also reiterated that the U.S. is “not leaving
Afghanistan in July of 2011.” That date, he said, is when “we
are beginning a transition process and a thinning of our
ranks.”  
 “If the Taliban are waiting for the 19th month, I welcome
that, because we will be there in the 19th month and we will be
there with a lot of troops,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 Kriddell1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Mullen on Leaked Documents  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Navy Admiral Michael Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Navy Admiral Michael Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
