-- Golf Can Reduce Italy's 1.52 Trillion Euro Debt, Developers Say
-- A. Craig Copetas
-- 2010-08-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/luxury-golf-courses-can-reduce-italy-s-1-98-trillion-debt-say-developers.html

          
          
             Leonardo Caltagirone, having studied
Italy’s plan to slice 21.1 billion euros ($27.6 billion) in
spending to bring its budget deficit below 3 percent of GDP by
2012, says golf is a path to fiscal salvation.  
 “Always look 10 years down the road,” says Caltagirone,
chairman of the construction and property company Gruppo
Leonardo Caltagirone in Rome. “Always invest in the future,
never the present.”  
 Sipping an icy drink on a sun-blistered terrace
overlooking the Forum Magnum, the 63-year-old real-estate
magnate points northwest, beyond the Capitoline Hill toward the
130 hectare field where the legions of ancient Rome camped
before marching victorious into the city.  
 “ Terre dei Consoli  is such an investment,” Caltagirone
says of the 200 million euros he’s spending to build a 27-hole
residential golf resort in the midst of a two-year recession
that has lumbered Italy with debt totaling 1.52 trillion euros
at the end of 2009, according to Eurostat. “It will be one of
the greatest golf courses in the world.”  
 At a colossal 7,700 yards, Caltagirone’s par-72 Terre dei
Consoli 18-hole championship course, designed by master
architect  Robert Trent Jones Jr. , is what golfers call a “long
poke” reach. The folks at KPMG International reckon it’s also
a tricky economic stretch.  
 Italy only has 92,000 golfers on its own turf, as compared
with 387,000 in France, almost 2 million in the U.K. and more
than 37 million in the U.S., according to a 2010 KPMG  analysis 
of the European golf-property market. Perhaps more problematic
for Terre dei Consoli, the KPMG report says that Italy isn’t a
country the world’s 61 million golfers associate with the game.  
 ‘Social Event’  
 Luca Valerio shrugs off the naysaying numbers. He’s the
64-year-old president of  Golf Parco di Roma  resort and golf-
industry consultant to Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi . “Golf is a social event for Italians,” Valerio
says over a twilight Campari-and-tonic in the Parco di Roma
clubhouse. “We need to make it a sport, as well as understand
that golf’s future is tied to real estate.”  
 Valerio says there are fewer than 70 Italian courses that
approach the championship caliber that interests international
golf travelers, home buyers, corporate sponsors and
professional tournaments. “Italy was once the world’s No. 1
tourist destination,” Valerio laments. “New courses like
Terre dei Consoli will help us regain the title.”  
 Lazy Ancestor  
 Italy’s first course, Acquasanta, was built south of Rome
in 1903. It’s a lazy 6,381-yard affair set along the Appian Way
and it wasn’t designed by property speculators encircling
fairways with vacation and retirement homes.  
 “Italian developers don’t have a good reputation,” says
Caltagirone’s Operations Director  Edoardo Caltagirone , the
company’s 34-year-old senior executive charged with bringing
Terre dei Consoli to reality by 2012.  
 “But we are not ‘palazzinari’,” the 16-handicap
Caltagirone adds, employing the word Italians use to describe
the country’s quick-buck property hustlers. “Golf has the
potential to be the fastest growth sport in Italy. We have the
weather and the food, everything needed to attract golfers,
except great courses.”  
 And the streamlined civil service essential to stamping
the cartloads of official permits Caltagirone says are
necessary to build them in a nation celebrated for its rasping
red tape.  
 “The government is committed to speed up the bureaucracy
that puts the construction of golf courses in motion,” Italian
Minister of Sport Rocco Crimi says in an interview. “Golf will
absolutely attract tourists and help relieve unemployment.”  
 Luxury Retreat  
 Caltagirone says Terre dei Consoli is a vanguard effort to
cultivate Italian jobs and golfers. About 40 kilometers outside
Rome, the project calls for six pods of 500 villas, a 120-room
hotel and a dedicated luxury golf lodge that can host 60
guests. House prices range from 240,000 euros to 500,000 euros
and are primarily aimed at Italian home buyers and northern
Europeans seeking a warm winter-golf hideaway.  
 Yet the KPMG report warns that sunny Spain’s 100
residential golf courses are “currently experiencing the
negative effects of oversupply in the market.” At the same
time, the mild climate on a 15-kilometer strip along Turkey’s
Antalya peninsula has sparked the construction of 17 golf
courses positioned to lure Europeans. Even with Greece’s
growing debt of 273 billion euros, developers there are
constructing 14 championship courses.  
 Caltagirone says Italy’s dearth of golf courses, which
cost a minimum 1.5 million euros annually in maintenance fees,
allows him to create a golf economy from scratch that’s
balanced on sensible projects.  
 ‘Great Craziness’  
 “Italy is a strange country,” Caltagirone says. “We
have points of great excellence and points of great craziness.
For me, it’s a beautiful life to build golf courses and
revitalize the economy.”  
 As for Crimi’s shot at hastening the pace, the KPMG report
says the government has toughened building restrictions. The
sports minister promises that will change. “The Italian golf
industry must move faster, build more courses,” Crimi says.
“The more the better.”  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 A. Craig Copetas  in Rome at  ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Luca Valerio  
                       
                         
                           Fred Downes via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Luca Valerio, Golf Parco di Roma Resort president.  Valerio says that golf is a social event for Italians. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Luca Valerio, Golf Parco di Roma Resort president.  Valerio says that golf is a social event for Italians. Photographer: Fred Downes via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Terre Dei Consoli Golf Club  
                       
                         
                           Robert Trent Jones II, LLC via Bloomberg 
                         
                         An artist's rendering of the Terre Dei Consoli Golf Club. The design includes a 27-hole golf residential resort, with an 18-hole championship par-72 course. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An artist's rendering of the Terre Dei Consoli Golf Club. The design includes a 27-hole golf residential resort, with an 18-hole championship par-72 course. Source: Robert Trent Jones II, LLC via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Edoardo Caltagiorne, Gruppo Leonardo Caltagirone operations director. Caltagiorne says golf is a path to fiscal salvation. Photographer: Fred Downes via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
