-- Wilders's Anti-Islamic Party Holds Key in Dutch Government Deal
-- Maud van Gaal
-- 2010-08-02T11:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/wilders-s-anti-islamic-party-holds-key-in-dutch-minority-government-deal.html

          
          
             Geert Wilders , whose anti-immigrant
party more than doubled its vote in June’s elections, forced his
way to the center of Dutch politics by agreeing to back a
minority government of Liberals and Christian Democrats.  
 Wilders and his 23 fellow lawmakers in the Freedom Party
intend to support a Cabinet led by Liberal  Mark Rutte  under a
preliminary deal reached July 30, giving it the smallest
possible majority in the 150-seat lower house of  parliament .
Wilders agreed to an 18 billion-euro ($23 billion) budget cut,
in exchange for measures to control immigration and crack down
on crime.  
 The agreement to form a minority coalition, the first since
World War II, ends almost seven weeks of deadlock. Yet some
 Liberals  and Christian Democrats are concerned that Wilders
won’t share ministerial responsibility and will thus retain a
free hand to voice anti-Islamic sentiments that don’t mesh with
their parties’ traditions of religious and racial tolerance.  
 “The Freedom Party gets a lot of power and it still has
the freedom to say all the things Wilders says that I oppose so
much,”  Frans Weisglas , a former Liberal speaker of parliament,
told  NOS  radio on July 31. The Christian Democrats and Liberals
“have let themselves be swallowed whole by the Freedom Party,
which is very regrettable.”  
 Mosque Ban  
 The Freedom Party, founded by former Liberal lawmaker
Wilders in 2006, seeks to ban new mosques, curb immigration, cut
development aid and reduce the influence of the European Union.
Wilders, 46, receives police protection around the clock and
faces trial on charges of inciting hatred in his 2008 film
“Fitna,” in which he calls on Muslims to rip out “hate-
preaching” verses from the Koran.  
 Wilders’s wish to curb the influence of Islam in the
Netherlands, home to 850,000 Muslims, runs counter to the
constitutional right to freedom of education agreed on by
Liberals and Christian Democrats almost a century ago and the
freedom of religion achieved by the Dutch in the 80 Years’ War
against Spanish rule that ended with independence in 1648.  
 “There are questions, there are doubts, but within the
party we fully agree on one thing: we will not bargain on a
number of fundamentals that apply in our country and that the
 Christian Democratic Alliance  has helped develop,” Henk Bleker,
the party’s acting chairman, told Tros radio on July 31.  
 Failed Attempts  
 The agreement to start the first formal talks on a minority
Cabinet came after two previous attempts to put together a
government ended in failure. The Liberals, led by Rutte, 43,
became the largest party in the June 9 elections, as the
Christian Democrats of outgoing Prime Minister  Jan Peter Balkenende  lost half of their support.  
 “The negotiations are yet to start, but if it does work,
that would be great for the Netherlands,” Wilders, who sports a
bleached blond bouffant hairstyle, told reporters in The Hague
on July 30.  
 Queen Beatrix  asked  Ruud Lubbers , a three-time prime
minister, to broker talks among the parties on July 22. Two days
earlier, discussions on a coalition of Liberals, Labor and the
D66 and Green Left parties collapsed, with the Liberals and
Labor split over the extent of budget cuts.  
 Lubbers, 71, is today speaking with leaders of the other
political parties before reporting back to the queen on the
proposed minority Cabinet.  
 ‘Difficult Situation’  
 “It’s his job to look into forming majority governments,”
 Job Cohen , the Labor leader and former Amsterdam mayor, told NOS
radio July 31. “Our country really needs a stable majority
cabinet in this difficult economic situation.”  
 Austerity measures are the most important issue on
political agenda, with the Netherlands, the fifth-largest
economy in the euro region, needing to narrow its deficit from a
forecast 6.3 percent of gross domestic product this year to 3
percent by 2013 to meet EU rules.  
 “We will negotiate to see if we can help cut those 18
billion euros,” Wilders told NOS on July 30. “In return we get
a firm immigration policy, a firm integration policy, a law-and-
order policy and measures to fight the lack of security in the
Netherlands.”  
 While Wilders supports Liberal and Christian Democrat plans
to continue a tax break for mortgage payers and dropped
opposition to a pension-age increase a day after the election,
he still opposes their demands for cuts in health-care and
 unemployment  benefits.  
 “I don’t expect these parties to come to a quick agreement
on the economy,”  Andre Krouwel , who teaches political science
at  VU University  in Amsterdam, said in a telephone interview
July 31. “The Liberal Party and the Freedom Party are willing
to cut spending on, for example, development aid, but the
Christian Democrats are opposed to that because helping the poor
is supported by their voters.”  
 If the formal negotiations don’t succeed, it would leave
the Liberals with limited options to achieve a majority
government; the most straightforward would be teaming up with
the Christian Democrats and Labor, which placed second in the
elections.  
 While Rutte favored such an alliance immediately after the
talks on a four-party coalition collapsed, he now rejects it.
“I’m no longer available for alternatives,” the newspaper  De
Telegraaf  cited him today as saying.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Geert Wilders  
                       
                         
                           Valerie Kuypers/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Wilders and his 23 fellow lawmakers in the Freedom Party intend to support a Cabinet led by Liberals Mark Rutte. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Wilders and his 23 fellow lawmakers in the Freedom Party intend to support a Cabinet led by Liberals Mark Rutte. Photographer: Valerie Kuypers/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
