-- Two Kidnapped Television Journalists Rescued by Mexican Police in Durango
-- Jonathan J. Levin
-- 2010-08-01T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-01/two-kidnapped-television-journalists-rescued-by-mexican-police-in-durango.html

          
          
             Mexico’s federal police rescued two
journalists yesterday who the government said were kidnapped in
an attempt by billionaire Joaquin “Chapo” Guzman’s drug cartel
to exert power in the media.  
 The rescued journalists are cameramen for  Grupo Televisa SA ,
the world’s largest Spanish-language broadcaster, and the
Multimedios television station, Public Safety Minister  Genaro Garcia Luna  told reporters yesterday in Mexico City. The
kidnappers took three people in total, including a Televisa
reporter who was freed two days earlier, he said.  
 Gang members allegedly tied to Guzman’s Sinaloa Cartel
abducted the hostages July 26 in bid to force their employers to
transmit cartel propaganda, including three videos that aired on
the Multimedios channel, according to the minister. The videos
sought to show ties between local police and the Zetas drug gang,
a rival of the Sinaloa Cartel.  
 “They principally used the reporters as a means to
transmit their message,” said Garcia Luna, speaking in front of
a blue federal police helicopter.  
 Print reporter Oscar Solis of newspaper El Vespertino also
disappeared this week. Garcia Luna said Solis’s case was
separate, and police had no information on his whereabouts.  
 ‘Bitter Experience’  
 The kidnappers fled during the early morning raid in the
northern state of Durango, according to the ministry.  
 After the rescue, police flew the two men to Mexico City by
helicopter. One of the men, Alejandro Hernandez Pacheco, had a
bandage on his head covering up a bruise from a beating he said
he received.  
 “I just want to thank God for the opportunity to be here
now,” said the second victim Javier Canales Fernandez, from
Multimedios, speaking at the same news conference. “It was a
sad and bitter experience that I wouldn’t wish upon anyone.”  
 An explosive went off earlier today at a Televisa
television station in Nuevo Laredo, a city along the U.S. border.
No one was hurt in the attack, and the attorney general’s office
has no suspects, according to an e-mailed statement.  
 The government estimates violence shaves one percentage
point from gross domestic product each year.  
 Billionaire Guzman  
 Mexico has reported almost 25,000 deaths related to
organized crime since President  Felipe Calderon  took office in
December 2006. At least 30 journalists have been killed or
disappeared in the period, according to the  Committee  to Protect
Journalists.  
 Kidnappings in Mexico rose to 1,059 in the first 10 months
of 2009 from 323 in 2004, according to the latest report by the
group Mexico United Against Crime, which cites data from the
Public Security Ministry. The federal government doesn’t
regularly release kidnapping data.  
 “We’ll do everything necessary to reassure Mexican
citizens, and in particular the journalists,” Garcia Luna said.
“What happened showed the importance of fighting together
against organized crime.”  
 Guzman, the head of the cartel based in the western state
of Sinaloa, made Forbes magazine’s annual  billionaires list  last
year for the first time with a net worth of $1 billion.  
 On July 29, the army shot dead a regional leader for
Guzman’s group, Ignacio “Nacho” Coronel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 Jlevin20@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        