-- Investor Jim Rogers says the buck stops here
-- By  Tom Miles
-- Mon Nov 12, 2007 5:00am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/11/12/businesspro-jimrogers-asia-dc-idUSHKG9614920071112

 

 HONG KONG  (Reuters) - The U.S. dollar is sinking fast and 
investors wanting to stay afloat should clamber into a raft of 
commodities and benefit from the rising tide of China's 
economic boom, investment guru Jim Rogers said on Monday. 

  "I'm hoping to get all my assets out of U.S. dollars in the 
next few weeks or months," he told reporters in Hong Kong via a 
video link from Singapore. "But that will include going into 
commodities because that is a way out of U.S. dollars."  Rogers, who co-founded the Quantum Fund with billionaire 
investor George Soros in the 1970s, said the U.S. economy was 
already in recession, or soon would be, and the U.S. dollar 
would continue to have problems for years to come.  But that would not be enough to dent demand from Asia.  "Asia's now becoming its own entity. Asia is growing on its 
own. If you look around Asia you'll see that they're much more 
independent of the United States and will continue to get more 
independent."  Driving this bull market would be 3 billion people -- in 
China, India, Pakistan and Vietnam -- whose economies were at a 
subsistence level during the last commodities boom.  "Now, look around you. Everybody in Asia wants to live the 
way we live in America," said Rogers, who was launching 
Barclays' ( BARC.L ) Global Commodities Delta Fund, which tracks 
his Rogers International Commodity Index .RICIX, in Hong 
Kong.  He said he'd recently been buying agricultural commodities, 
which he favored over metals such as tin MSN3 and lead 
MPB3, which were close to all-time highs.  "I think there are great opportunities in agriculture ... 
like sugar, which is something like 80 percent below it's 
all-time high, or cotton." he said.
  OIL DOUBLES, CHINA BUBBLES  Another long-term winner will be crude oil because, he 
said, demand continues to grow but new supplies are scarce.  "Over the course of the bull market, oil has to go to $150, 
it has to go to $200, because nobody's been discovering oil."  But Rogers, who described himself as the world's worst 
short-term trader, said all big rallies suffered occasional 
setbacks on the way up and he wasn't making any short-term 
forecasts about the oil price.  And bear markets catch support on the way down, which he 
said might give the dollar a few footholds as it falls.  "Everyone's extremely pessimistic about the dollar, so 
we're bound to have a rally soon," said Rogers.  But longer-term, the picture was clear and the best 
currencies to buy would be the Swiss franc, Japanese yen and 
Chinese yuan. He said the Chinese government should make the 
yuan fully convertible as soon as possible.  "I would certainly suspect by 2010, if not by the Olympics 
next year," he said. "It's causing bubbles within the Chinese 
economy. It's causing inflation within China."  But he had little love for the Hong Kong dollar, which he 
said should disappear as soon as the yuan becomes convertible.  "If I were the Hong Kong government, I would abolish the 
Hong Kong dollar. There's no reason for the Hong Kong dollar. 
It's a historical anomaly."  (Editing by Anne Marie Roantree)