-- Mergers expected to spur more stock-buying
-- By  Jennifer Ablan
-- Fri Dec 22, 2006 4:58pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/22/businesspro-column-stocks-outlook-dc-idUSN2230607920061222

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Major merger deals, which have been a 
key catalyst fueling recent stock market gains, are expected to 
remain in the forefront of investors' minds going into 2007 as 
the last week of the year closes out with a dearth of data and 
earnings. 

  Flush with cash and eager to grow, companies around the 
world continue to woo and wed at a frenzied pace, with mergers 
and acquisitions hitting a record of nearly $4 trillion 
worldwide this year so far. That easily surpasses the previous 
high in 2000 of $3.4 trillion, according to the latest figures 
on Friday from Thomson Financial.  Buyout funds, too, are back and bigger than ever: Data 
provider Dealogic said the value of announced global M&A by 
private-equity firms and other financial sponsors so far this 
year hit a record at over $725 billion, as of Friday morning.  Leveraged buyout, or LBO, activity driven by private equity 
firms has been a feature of the stock and bond markets 
throughout the year because of the creation of value for equity 
holders. Indeed, investors still argue that many large-cap 
companies remain undervalued, notwithstanding the sector's 
recent rally.  Punctuating the buyout bonanza is the recent interest by 
bargain-hunting private equity firms in home improvement chain 
Home Depot ( HD.N ), which has a market capitalization of about 
$82 billion.  Awash in cash, buyout funds are preying on companies whose 
shares are trading below their underlying net asset values.  "What we've seen now is that given the Home Depot example, 
that it's not unreasonable to think that through a consortium 
of private equity shops a $100 billion leveraged buyout is not 
out of the realm in the next 12 months," said Robert P. Brown, 
managing director of research at Fidelity Investments in 
Merrimack, New Hampshire.
  MONEY EVERYWHERE  Tom Sowanick, chief investment officer at Clearbrook 
Research, a part of Clearbrook Financial, in Princeton, New 
Jersey, said the M&A boom is the result of excess cash. 
"Investors should not think that 2007 will be a slow year for 
M&A activity," he said.  There could be a number of cross-border deals next year, 
fueled by record cash reserves and a desire for global growth, 
added Sowanick.  The barrage of buyouts in the United States and abroad has 
fueled investor confidence in world markets, sending both the 
Dow Jones industrials average  .DJI  and the MSCI All-Country 
World Index .MSCIWD to life-time highs on Wednesday.  Year-to-date, the Dow has gained 15 percent, while the MSCI 
All-Country World Index is up about 18 percent.  Solid earnings have also been another catalyst. Companies 
in the Standard & Poor's 500 index  .SPX  posted their 17th 
consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings growth in the 
third quarter, according to Reuters Estimates.  "People are being able to grow their business both inside 
the United States by gaining market share and on a global 
basis," said Edward Keon, chief investment strategist at 
Prudential Equity Group in New York.  He added that financial markets are facing a combination of 
attractive valuations for stocks, lower inflation and "still 
pretty good earnings performance."  But on Friday, stocks dropped as concerns about slowing 
economic growth persisted, causing investors to sell shares of 
bellwether companies such as plane maker Boeing Co. ( BA.N ).  The Dow Jones industrial average  .DJI  fell 78.03 points, 
or 0.63 percent, at 12,343.22 while the Standard & Poor's 500 
Index  .SPX  dropped 7.52 points, or 0.53 percent, at 1,410.78. 
The Nasdaq Composite Index  .IXIC  fell 14.67 points, or 0.61 
percent, at 2,401.18.  For the week, the Dow closed down 0.8 percent, the S&P 
ended down 1.1 percent and the Nasdaq closed down 2.3 percent.  "I don't see any great upside here next week," said Michael 
Metz, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Co. in New 
York.  "There's a general consensus we're going to have a soft 
landing, so I think it's a little precautionary profit-taking, 
and I expect more of it over the next week or so," he added.  (Additional reporting by  Mark McSherry  and Caroline 
Valetkevitch)