-- So Cal Ed signs biggest U.S. wind contract
-- By  Bernie Woodall
-- Thu Dec 21, 2006 9:15pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/22/businesspro-utilities-edisonintl-dc-idUSN2122832120061222

 

 LOS ANGELES  (Reuters) - Electric utility Southern 
California Edison and Australian-based Allco Finance Group Ltd. 
have signed the biggest contract for wind power in U.S. 
history, the two companies said on Thursday. 

  The pact is to generate at least 1,500 megawatts of wind 
power on more than 50 square miles in the windy Tehachapi 
region in southern California, with the first new windmills 
expected to begin spinning in 2011.  The new turbines would generate twice the power of the 
biggest U.S. wind farm, the Horse Hallow Wind Farm in Texas, 
said Christine Real de Azua of the American Wind Energy 
Association (AWEA).  "This project alone will be almost as much wind power as 
the entire country had at the beginning of this century," said 
Real de Azua said.  California has set a goal that 20 percent of the state's 
electricity will be from renewable sources -- in addition to 
hydro power -- by 2010.  So Cal Ed is a unit of Edison International ( EIX.N ), based 
in Rosemead in suburban Los Angeles. Financial services company 
Allco Finance Group Ltd. AFG.AX is based in Sydney.  So Cal Ed with 1,021 megawatts of delivered wind power 
generation at the end of 2005 was second in the United States 
behind Xcel Energy Inc. ( XEL.N ) of Minneapolis, at 1,048 
megawatts, according to the AWEA.  In 2000, total U.S. wind power generation was about 2,500 
megawatts, compared to about 10,000 to 11,000 megawatts now, 
she said. For 2007, the AWEA projects another 3,000 megawatts 
of wind turbines will be installed, on top of the 2,700 
megawatts installed this year and 2,400 megawatts installed in 
2005.  Only natural gas installs more new power generation each 
year, Real de Azua said.  Wind power is not as cheap to generate as conventional 
sources like natural gas and coal, but its cost is decreasing 
as more wind farms come on line. Utilities like them because 
they help them meet popular environmental goals and also 
because there is no fuel cost.  But wind power also is not consistent. In general a wind 
turbine can generate 30 to 35 percent of its rated production 
capacity, which is based on constant wind.  The contract calls for numerous "sub-projects," or separate 
wind farms in the Tehachapi region. They will be managed and 
operated by a joint venture of Allco and Oak Creek Energy 
Systems Inc. of Mojave, California called Alta Innovative Power 
Co.  Stuart Hemphill, director of renewable and alternative 
power for So Cal Ed, said the deal is flexible to allow for 
capital costs -- including for land and wind turbines not yet 
in hand -- to be incurred by the joint venture Alta Innovative 
Power Co.  Terms of the agreement were not disclosed, due to the 
competitive power sales market, said Hemphill.  The So Cal Ed-Allco agreement calls for 20 years of sales 
starting with the first day of operation of each of the 
"sub-projects," which are scheduled to all be in operation by 
about 2016.  The Tehachapi area now has wind farms capable of generating 
730 megawatts of power with expectations that the area will 
produce about 4,500 megawatts of power in 10 years.  The success of the project will depend on the completion of 
a proposed Tehachapi Renewable Transmission Project So Cal Ed 
wants to build to bring 4,500 megawatts of wind power from the 
Tehachapi region, including from projects not associated with 
So Cal Ed. That project is awaiting approval of the California 
Public Utilities Commission and is scheduled to enter operation 
around 2010, said Pedro Pizarro, So Cal Ed senior 
vice-president of power procurement.  So Cal Ed is the second-largest electric utility in 
California. Like other big utilities in the state, it signs 
agreements to buy wind power rather than own the wind farms.  Allco is also developing wind projects in New Zealand and 
Australia.  At the end of 2005, 17 percent of So Cal Ed's electricity 
delivered was generated by using renewable sources such as wind 
power.