-- CORRECTED: Fight over NASD-NYSE regulatory merger escalates
-- 
-- Fri Dec 22, 2006 10:37am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/22/businesspro-nyse-nasd-dc-idUSN2118705720061222

 

  Corrects percentage in NASD survey described in seventh 
paragraph to 43 percent from 40 percent. 

  By  Jonathan Keehner NEW YORK  (Reuters) - A group of smaller brokerage firms, 
seeking to block the proposed merger of Wall Street's top 
self-regulators, said on Thursday it has enough support to 
derail the deal and charged regulators with trying to steer 
votes.  "Right now we have the majority of the votes to defeat 
this," said Richard Goble, who is leading the fight against the 
NYSE Regulatory unit and NASD merger.  He told Reuters that the group, the Financial Industry 
Association, recently polled "every member possible" and found 
most were against the merger.  "Our fear is that NASD has hired a proxy service that is 
taking votes over the phone while trying to convince people to 
vote for it. That's a huge concern," Goble said.  The November 28 plan would consolidate regulatory 
operations of NASD, the nation's largest private brokerage 
watchdog, and NYSE's Regulation unit. It would cut costs and 
redundant exams, the regulators said.  It would also strip smaller firms of their power to shape 
regulations, said Goble, owner of a small Florida-based 
securities firm.  But according to NASD's survey, 43 percent of those polled 
favored the plan, 14 percent were against, and the remainder 
were undecided, NASD spokesman Herb Perone said.  "Our polling indicates there is strong support among firms 
that have made a decision about consolidation," Perone said. 
"As firms learn the details of the plan and become informed 
they support it in large numbers.  Voting has begun and is to end on January 19.  NASD executives went on a road trip to peddle the plan and 
other backers, the Securities Industry and Financial Markets 
Association, whose members include investment banks Lehman 
Brothers LEH.N and JPMorgan Chase ( JPM.N ), held a conference 
call for reporters.  On the call, NASD members were asked if there was concern 
over FIA's influence.  "As you can tell by the 25 or so members' meetings...(NASD 
is) taking any comments by any organization, including the FIA, 
very seriously," said Bill Alsover, chairman of Centennial 
Securities. "And so I expect that they will be working very 
hard...to be sure that we do get a yes vote. But nothing is 
assured of course."  In addition to SIFMA, several industry groups, including 
small-firm advocate the National Association of Independent 
Broker-Dealers, have endorsed the combination, NASD's Perone 
added.  But FIA could affect the process, said Alan Wolper, a 
former NASD Atlanta district director now with law firm 
Sutherland Asbill & Brennen.  "I don't think NASD anticipated this would trigger as 
organized and perhaps as loud a response," Wolper said. "A lot 
of member firms are somewhat distrustful of NASD.  "If somebody is telling things feeding that distrust, then 
they might be more willing to say: 'I'm not necessarily voting 
no forever, but maybe just for now until I get more 
information."'