-- Qualcomm lowers profit forecast
-- 
-- Thu Dec 21, 2006 8:20pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/22/businesspro-qualcomm-outlook-dc-idUSN2121451820061222

 

 SAN FRANCISCO  (Reuters) - Qualcomm Inc. ( QCOM.O ), a 
designer of microchips for mobile telephones, lowered its 
first-quarter profit forecast on Thursday, citing higher legal 
costs and a deferred payment from a customer. 

  Qualcomm said it now expects quarterly profit, excluding 
special items such as stock-based compensation and tax 
provisions, to be 41 cents to 42 cents per diluted share, 
compared with a previous estimate of 42 cents to 44 cents.  The San Diego, California-based company also said it 
expected pro forma revenue for the quarter to be at the high 
end of its previous forecast of $1.98 billion to $2.08 billion.  Qualcomm had been expected to earn 44 cents per share on 
revenue of nearly $2.06 billion, according to the average 
forecast of Wall Street analysts surveyed by Reuters Estimates.  Shares of Qualcomm fell 1.4 percent to $38 in extended 
trading, after closing up 23 cents at $38.54 on Nasdaq.  The company was deferring some revenue that it had not 
received from the Pantech Group due to a debt rescheduling at 
the South Korean company's mobile phone subsidiaries.  "Additionally, our legal expenses in the quarter have 
increased above our prior expectations as we continue to 
vigorously defend the legal attacks on our business model," the 
company said in a statement.  Qualcomm is involved in several legal disputes, including 
ones with rival Broadcom Corp. ( BRCM.O ) over patents and 
competitive practices. Other disputes involve companies such as 
cellphone maker Nokia ( NOK1V.HE ).  Qualcomm is the biggest supplier of chips for cellphones 
based on CDMA, the most widely used U.S. cellular technology, 
and designs chips for W-CDMA, a popular technology in Europe.  The company also competes with U.S.-based Texas Instruments 
Inc. TXN.N, the biggest maker of semiconductors for mobile 
phones, and with STMicroelectronics, Europe's biggest 
chipmaker.