-- Creditor group expects Delta to weigh options
-- 
-- Fri Dec 22, 2006 8:15am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/22/businesspro-delta-creditors-unofficial-d-idUSWEN156320061222

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - An unofficial group of Delta Air Lines 
DALRQ.PK creditors said on Friday it looked forward to 
discussing the carrier's plan to exit bankruptcy, but added it 
expects the No. 3 U.S. airline to weigh other options. 

  Delta, which has been operating under Chapter 11 protection 
since September 2005, earlier this week filed a plan of 
reorganization that would see it emerge from bankruptcy as an 
independent carrier, and rejected an $8.3 billion takeover 
offer from US Airways Group ( LCC.N ).  The unofficial committee of unsecured claim holders' 
comments come after a similar statement by Delta's 
court-approved official committee of unsecured creditors, and a 
day after US Airways dismissed the stand-alone plan as 
"unrealistic."  "(It) looks forward to analyzing carefully and discussing 
with Delta the proposed plan and the assumptions upon which it 
is based," the unofficial group's financial adviser, Jefferies 
& Co., said on its behalf. "It expects Delta to consider 
methodically, proactively and fairly strategic alternatives to 
its proposed stand-alone Chapter 11 plan."  Delta has repeatedly said it intends to emerge from 
bankruptcy as an independent carrier and hopes to get creditors 
to vote on its plan by February or March so that it can exit by 
spring of 2007.  Creditors holding at least two-thirds of the value of total 
impaired claims -- debt that will not be repaid in full -- must 
vote in the plan's favor for it to succeed. The bankruptcy 
court also needs to approve the plan. Delta assumes a total 
claim pool of about $15 billion.  The unofficial creditor group, which was formed after US 
Airways' November 15 bid, has grown to 17 members from nine and 
now represents more than $2.25 billion of unsecured claims 
against Delta, according to the statement.  The group is represented by the law firm Paul, Weiss, 
Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP.