-- For Wine in 2010 Expect Price Drops, Screwtops, Thirsty Chinese
-- John Mariani
-- 2010-01-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-05/for-wine-in-2010-expect-price-drops-screwtops-thirsty-chinese.html

          
          
             Not since the millennium folly in
1999 have I seen so much frenzy in the wine market.  
 Back then, with stock markets booming, auction houses
setting records for wines and Champagne producers warning there
wouldn’t be enough fizz for the celebration, producers were
enthusiastic and bottles were getting pricier by the month.  
 What a difference a decade makes. With high unemployment,
pared-down expense accounts and a glut of wine, it’s the
consumer’s turn to make merry, with lower prices, more choice
and less pretension. Those 99-point ratings don’t seem quite so
requisite any more to buying good wine.  
 So what do I see happening in 2010?  
 1. Prices will continue to drop across the board, from the
priciest of Bordeaux and Burgundy to cult California wines that
were once available only by subscription. This goes, too, for
those Italian, Spanish and Chilean producers who thought that
they could easily get the same kind of money those age-old
French estates used to command.  
 2. More people will buy online. Consumers can go to sites
like wine-searcher.com or vinfolio.com and compare prices for
the same wine not just around the U.S., where many states now
allow cross-state shipping, but in the U.K., Germany, and other
countries. The spread can be amazing: a wine costing $40 in one
store may be $75 in another. Wine stores will stock more
inexpensive wines, which account for most of their profits.  
 3. Wine blogging will increase, mostly among those
contending they’ve found spectacular bottles that will “blow
your doors off” for under $15 a bottle. As with all blogging,
readers should be wary of the source of such claims.  
 4. California, alas, will fail to back away from big, high
alcohol, oaky reds and whites, because the producers believe
that is the style most Americans prefer over subtlety and
complexity. The problem is that cheaper wines of this style are
so often dreadful, out of balance and undrinkable after one
glass. California wineries talk a good game about finesse, but
then they overripen their grapes and stick them in new oak for
too long.  
 5. The tsunami of new wines from South America and Eastern
Europe will ebb as the market overflows. Greek, Portuguese, and
Brazilian wines have had good press in recent years, but unless
they keep prices down, they won’t make much headway.  
 6. New Zealand wineries will be in trouble. The country’s
recent prodigious harvests have glutted the market for their
overly fruity punch-like style, and many fans want to move up in
quality.  
 7. Champagne will be in serious trouble. It’s not just that
prices have gotten way out of whack, with too many selling above
$100 a bottle, but other sparkling-wine producers have been
canny about getting their bubblies well-positioned, well-priced
and well-reviewed. Champagne is reducing output and holding back
product already bottled to get some balance, but it’s going to
be a struggle to win revelers back from Italian prosecco,
Californian sparklers and Spanish cavas. There are just too many
Champagne labels out there.  
 8. Fine-dining restaurants will buy nominal numbers of
expensive wines after trimmed expense accounts caused them to
sit on their previous big capital purchases. They’ll wait until
guests are telling sommeliers, “Money is no object.” Good luck
with that. Fewer top-end restaurants will even open, and more
modest new eateries will build wine lists with interesting,
small labels from around the world and sell them at reasonable
mark-ups.  
 9. More producers will switch to screwtops from cork
stoppers in an effort to stem damage to the wines in the bottle
from corkiness and oxidation as well as to make wine more
accessible to the average consumer. The dirty secret is that
most winemakers I talk to say they’d love to switch to screwcaps
but fear buyers will think them cheap! Very dumb.  
 10. Americans will buy more wine at the $10-and-under
level. The best bet for an expanding market is China, which is
thirsty for good, inexpensive wine. And, like everything else,
they’ll soon be producing that themselves.  
 (John Mariani writes on wine for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  
          
          


  


        