-- American Express Wins Dismissal of Shareholders' Lawsuit Claiming Fraud
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-20T21:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-05-18/american-express-wins-ruling-upholding-dismissal-of-securities-fraud-suit.html

          
          
             American Express Co.  won dismissal
of a proposed class-action shareholder lawsuit claiming the
company misled investors about its underwriting guidelines and
delinquent-cardholder payments.  
 U.S. District Judge  William Pauley  in New York yesterday
granted American Express’s request to throw out the 2009 suit.
The investors failed to establish that defendants including
Chief Executive Officer  Kenneth I. Chenault  and Chief Financial
Officer  Daniel T. Henry  knew of any fraud or acted with reckless
disregard, Pauley wrote.  
 “The complaint’s allegations, taken collectively, reveal a
company attempting to increase its share of the credit card
market during significant financial turmoil,” the judge said,
calling the case “a classic example of fraud by hindsight.”  
 The plaintiffs alleged that American Express officials
touted the New York-based company’s credit-risk management and
later made misleading statements about its underwriting
guidelines, the credit quality of its portfolio and the level of
loss reserves.  
 “AMEX pursued its expansionary strategy at the wrong
time,” Pauley said. “That a business plan turned out to be
ill-timed and, in hindsight, ill-advised, does not transmogrify
it into a securities fraud.”  
 “We’re delighted with the ruling,” said  Joanna Lambert , a
spokeswoman for American Express.  
 Beth Kaswan , a lawyer for the plaintiffs declined to
comment.  
 The case is Local No. 30 International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers Pension Fund v. American Express, 1:09-cv-
03016, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        