-- Bollard Says New Zealand's Rising Currency May Inhibit Export-Led Recovery
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-09T22:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-05-18/bollard-says-new-zealand-needs-to-reduce-foreign-debt-trim-budget-deficit.html
New Zealand central bank Governor
 Alan Bollard  said “very loose” monetary policy in the U.S. is
driving up his nation’s currency, weakening export demand and
hampering an economic recovery.  “The Federal Reserve’s intent to  maintain  very loose
monetary policy could result in unwanted appreciation in other
free-floating currencies,” Bollard said in the Reserve Bank of
New Zealand’s  Financial Stability Report , released in Wellington
today. U.S. policies are “problematic for international
rebalancing,” he said.  The Fed last week announced plans to buy $600 billion of
long-term government bonds in its second effort at so-called
quantitative easing, or QE2, aiming to stoke U.S. economic
growth. Bollard joined officials from Asia to South America who
have warned the policy may have the effect of depressing the
U.S. currency and sparking capital flight to emerging markets.  New Zealand policy makers are looking to exports, which
make up 30 percent of country’s $125 billion economy, to boost
growth as domestic spending and housing remain sluggish. The
nation’s currency has appreciated 2.9 percent against the U.S.
dollar the past month, the best performer of 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  “A sustained rebalancing of economic activity toward the
tradables sector will be difficult to achieve with the New
Zealand dollar remaining at relatively high levels,” Bollard
said today. The kiwi’s gains “reflect easy monetary conditions
and weak economic activity in the major developed economies.”  Currency Declines  After the report, the New Zealand dollar extended declines,
falling below 78 U.S. cents for the first time since Nov. 4 and
trading at 77.77 cents at 11:05 a.m. in Wellington.  New Zealand Prime Minister  John Key  this week said the
government is concerned that the New Zealand currency is
overvalued against the dollar because of U.S. policy.  The Fed’s policy “could prompt a range of compensating
strategies from countries to safeguard their own economic
recovery,” Bollard said. “Some of these strategies may create
distortions and, if actions in this area escalate, could weaken
the overall outlook for global trade.”  Bollard said New Zealand has limited scope to do much to
push the currency lower.  “What we’re seeing is being driven by a much bigger
international move,” he told reporters after the release.
“There’s no way a small country can lean against that.”  ‘Misinterpretation’  Bollard said the kiwi is being buoyed by rising commodity
prices. He also signaled that there has been some
“misinterpretation” of recent indicators such as the jobless
rate, he said.  “Over the last couple of weeks the markets have taken it
into their head to interpret some data more strongly than we
might otherwise do,” he said. “We’re not seeing any
fundamental change in our understanding of the New Zealand
economy out of that data. Some of the market seemed to think
there was.”  The nation’s  jobless  rate fell to 6.4 percent in the third
quarter, lower than the median estimate of 6.7 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of 14 economists, according to a report on
Nov. 4.  New Zealand’s economic recovery has been “tepid,” with
recent indicators suggesting the pace of recovery has slowed.
Bollard said in the report. He didn’t comment on the outlook for
 interest rates  in today’s report.  Weaker Growth  In September, Bollard lowered his 2010  growth  forecast to
2.6 percent from 3.1 percent and said growth will probably be
slower in 2011. Last month he kept the official cash rate
unchanged at 3 percent for a second month. All 14 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News expect Bollard will keep borrowing
costs on hold until March.  “Households and businesses have restrained spending in an
effort to reduce debt levels,” he said today. “Despite strong
commodity prices, prospects for export-led growth may also be
hampered by a fairly soft global growth outlook.”  In some economies, concerns have turned to trying to tame
overheated domestic asset prices, Bollard said, citing Chinese
property markets.  “A slowdown in China could materially affect New Zealand,
particularly if export prices fall,” he said. China is the
second-biggest customer for the nation’s exports after
Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  