-- Ex-UBS Client Zabczuk Avoids Prison for Hiding Assets From Tax Authority
-- Mort Lucoff
-- 2010-07-27T19:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-06/ex-ubs-client-zabczuk-charged-with-false-u-s-tax-return-for-swiss-account.html

          
          
             Former  UBS AG  client Paul Zabczuk, a
Texas businessman, avoided prison after admitting he hid assets
from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and helping U.S.
prosecutors probe offshore tax evasion.  
 Zabczuk, 55, was sentenced to one year of house arrest and
fined $2,000 today by U.S. District Judge  William Dimitrouleas 
in Miami. He faced as long as three years in prison. The judge
granted leniency to Zabczuk, who implicated a Swiss banker,
Switzerland’s Banque Cantonale Vaudoise and other U.S. taxpayers
when he pleaded guilty April 13.  
 “I know the importance of deterrence,” the judge said.
“If I impose a slap on the wrist, there may be more people who
take the risk of not paying their taxes.”  
 Zabczuk said he filed a false tax return in 2004 that
didn’t report his account at UBS, the largest Swiss bank.
Zurich-based UBS avoided U.S. prosecution in February 2009 by
 paying  $780 million, turning over the names of U.S. account
holders and saying it helped Americans hide assets from the IRS.  
 Since then, the Justice Department has filed criminal tax
charges against 16 other UBS clients in the U.S., two UBS
bankers, and three others accused of tax evasion.  
 Zabczuk, of The Woodlands, Texas, provides consulting
services relating to the purchase and sale of chemicals by
companies that drill for oil. In pleading guilty, he admitted to
opening a UBS account in the name of a Bahamian corporation.  
 Offshore Accounts  
 He said he directed foreign clients to make payments to his
company through offshore accounts he controlled in the Bahamas
and Switzerland. He also confessed to disguising payments from
his U.S. company to his offshore company. He said he brought
funds back to the U.S. by making cash withdrawals at UBS
branches in London, Zurich and the Bahamas.  
 Zabczuk also said he wired money from UBS to an agent in
China to buy furniture and antiques for his personal use and for
resale. He said a Swiss banker helped him transfer UBS funds to
a smaller, “off the radar” Swiss bank, Banque Cantonale
Vaudoise. He opened that account in the name of a Panamanian
corporation, he said.  
 The highest balance of his offshore assets was $529,194,
according to prosecutors.  
 The banker told Zabczuk that Lausanne-based BCV was a
“relocation bank” for U.S. clients who could no longer
maintain accounts at UBS, prosecutors said.  
 BCV spokesman  Christian Jacot-Descombes  said in an e-mailed
statement that the bank didn’t help U.S. clients hide assets
from the IRS and that it hadn’t been contacted by the agency or
the Justice Department. He declined to comment further.  
 The case is USA v. Zabczuk, 10-cr-60112, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Mort Lucoff  in Mort Lucoff in Miami at  morsybil@bellsouth.net .  
          
          


  


        