-- UBS Banker Poteroba's Insider Trading Codefendant Koval Seeks Bail Release
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-06-16T20:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-06/ubs-banker-poteroba-s-codefendant-appears-in-manhattan-court-on-transfer.html

          
          
             Alexei Koval , who prosecutors said
conspired with  UBS AG  investment banker  Igor Poteroba  to earn
almost $1 million in profits through insider trading, sought
release on bail today after being indicted.  
 Koval, 36, of Chicago, was charged with conspiracy to
commit securities fraud and three counts of insider trading in a
scheme that lasted from 2005 to this March, said prosecutors in
the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara . The
indictment was filed May 20 and made public today.  
 Poteroba was accused in March in a criminal complaint of
leaking to Koval and a third person merger tips on six UBS
Healthcare Client mergers and acquisitions which were being
considered. The ring used code words such as “frequent flier
miles” and references to a Macy’s Inc. wedding registry and
earned at least $870,000 from the illegal trades, prosecutors
said.  
 Koval pleaded not guilty when he was arraigned in May, his
lawyer,  James DeVita , said after court today. Poteroba, 36, who
the U.S. said is an executive director at  UBS Securities LLC ,
wasn’t named in today’s indictment. Both men face as long as 20
years in prison if convicted of securities fraud.  
 Koval has remained in custody since his arrest in Chicago
in March. U.S. Magistrate Judge  Frank Maas  today delayed a
hearing on setting bail for two days to give Koval’s lawyer time
to find three people acceptable to prosecutors to co-sign the
bond. DeVita proposed a $5 million bond.  
 A federal judge in New York on March 25 set Poteroba’s bail
at $5 million.  
 The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed a related
lawsuit against Koval, Poteroba and a third man, Alexander
Vorobiev, who now lives in Russia after leaving Toronto. All
three men are Russian citizens. The SEC said they earned more
than $1 million through the scheme.  
 Kris Kagel , a spokesman for Zurich-based UBS, said March 24
that the bank was cooperating with the authorities and that
Poteroba was on administrative leave.  
 The case is U.S. v. Poteroba, 10-CR-443, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        