-- China Life Denies Parent's Listing Plan, Posts Profit
-- Zhang Shidong
-- 2007-04-24T00:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-04-24/china-life-denies-parent-s-listing-plan-posts-profit-update1-.html

          
          
             China Life Insurance Co. (2628) , the
nation's biggest insurer, said its parent company doesn't plan to
list the group's shares for trading.  
 ``The group company doesn't have any plan or timetable for
an entire listing,''  China  Life said in a statement to the
 Shanghai  Stock Exchange today.  
 Trading of China Life shares was halted in Hong Kong and
Shanghai yesterday, after the weekly Economic Observer newspaper
cited an unidentified company official in saying that the
insurer's parent is reorganizing units and may seek a stock
market listing.  
 China Life last night reported an unaudited first-quarter
profit of 8.9 billion yuan ($1.2 billion), without giving a
comparable 2006 figure or specify the accounting standard used.
Investment income was 16.8 billion  yuan  while insurance income
was 73.9 billion yuan in the three months ended March 31, the
Beijing-based insurer said in a statement.  
 First-quarter premiums grew slower at China Life than across
the nation's industry as a whole, as surging stocks and rising
interest rates tempted more people to shift money from policies
into stocks and savings accounts. The benchmark  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  has
tripled in the past year while China's central bank raised
borrowing costs three times.  
 Premium Growth  
 Premiums at China Life grew 16 percent in the first three
months from 2006, compared with an industry-wide 23 percent, the
China Insurance Regulatory Commission said yesterday.  
 China Life, which controls 45 percent of the country's life
insurance market, said on April 17 that its 2006 profit more than
doubled to 20 billion yuan because of returns from China's
booming stock market. The key CSI 300 Index rose 4.3 percent
yesterday to a  record .  
 China Life will invest in more stocks to support earnings
growth, the company's vice president Liu Jiade said on April 18.  
 ``We are focusing on improving our investment yield in the
current period,'' said Liu. ``At the same time, we will be
allocating more assets to strategic investments to support our
long-term development.''  
 China is preparing to lift a ban that limits insurers'
direct investment in the stock market to 5 percent of assets and
will proceed according to the needs of insurance firms,  Wu Dingfu ,
chairman of the insurance regulator, said on April 12.  
 China Life reported its earnings after the Hong Kong market
ended trading yesterday. Shares in China Life, which have fallen
12 percent this year, rose 0.8 percent yesterday to HK$25.05.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Josephine Lau in Beijing at 
 jlau22@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at  at
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        