-- Vale Restarts Talks With Baosteel on $4 Billion Plant
-- Feiwen Rong
-- 2007-04-24T07:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-04-24/vale-restarts-talks-with-baosteel-on-4-billion-plant-update3-.html

          
          
             Cia. Vale do Rio Doce , the world's
largest iron ore exporter, restarted talks with Baosteel Group
Corp. on a steel slab plant in  Brazil  that may cost as much as
$4 billion after a pro-industry party won a state election.  
 Baosteel, China's biggest steelmaker, will provide 80 to 90
percent of the funding for the $3 billion to $4 billion proposed
plant in Maranhao province, Pedro Gutemberg, director of ferrous
technology at Vale, said today in an interview in Beijing.  
 China's government is encouraging steelmakers in the
world's biggest consumer to expand production abroad as the
nation tightens approval procedures for mills at home. Vale
wants to attract overseas steelmakers to Brazil to boost sales
of iron ore, a steelmaking raw material.  
 ``We started talks because the government changed,''
Gutemberg said in an interview at an iron ore conference.
``Local people had tried to block the project because of concern
it was a threat to the environment.''  
 Calls to Baosteel's spokesman Fan Shunbiao weren't
immediately answered. Chen Ying, spokeswoman of Baoshan  Iron &
Steel Co. (600019) , Baosteel's publicly traded unit, declined to comment.  
 Shares of Baoshan rose 2 percent to close at 11.53 yuan
today in  Shanghai , outperforming a 0.4 percent gain in the China
benchmark index. The stock has more than doubled in the past
year.  
 Jackson Lago of Brazil's Democratic Workers Party took
office Jan. 1 in Maranhao, replacing Roseana Sarney, daughter of
former Brazilian President Jose Sarney. The Sarney family and
their allies had controlled the state for four decades before
Lago's victory in October elections.  
 Industrial Development  
 Lago took office on a platform committed to developing
industry in the state, reducing its dependence on agriculture
and resource extraction industries such as mining and logging,
according to the government of Maranhao state's Web site.  
 Shanghai-based Baosteel and Vale had planned to spend $1.5
billion building the first phase of the plant at Sao Luis, which
would produce 4.1 million metric tons of steel slab a year from
2007, Sun Mengxiang, the Baosteel official heading the project,
said in July 2005. The plant was stalled in 2005 as costs rose
for the project due to environmental issues.  
 China  has tightened lending and closed small, inefficient
steel plants to curb overcapacity since 2004. It plans to
eliminate 35 million tons of steel capacity this year, and
encourage domestic mills to merge, creating bigger, more
competitive producers.  
 Cost Advantage  
 Baosteel is trying to boost production to meet demand for
steel for cars, highways and houses as China's economy grew 11.1
percent in the first quarter. Producing steel in Brazil and
exporting it may also be cheaper than making steel from imported
iron ore in China.  
 To make 1 million tons of steel in China, Baosteel would
have to buy 1.5 million tons of iron ore from Brazil, said Paolo
di Sora, an equity analyst at Banco Itau SA's brokerage in Sao
Paulo on Feb. 2004.  
 ``You're talking about a 50 percent savings in shipping
alone,'' Di Sora said in a telephone interview.  
 After the talks stalled, Baosteel met with Cia. Siderurgica
Nacional to discuss taking part in one of the two 4.5 billion
metric ton slab mills CSN plans to build in Brazil's Rio de
Janeiro or Minas Gerais states.  
 CSN planned to present an initial study on the plans to
Baosteel executives in early April. A CSN press office
spokeswoman said the company was unable to immediately comment
on the impact of the revivied Vale-Baosteel talks on CSN's talks
with Baosteel.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Beijing at  hyuan@bloomberg.net 
Feiwen Rong in Beijing on 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        