-- Venezuela Gold Projects May Be Joined, Rusoro Says
-- Steven Bodzin
-- 2008-12-12T23:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-12-12/venezuela-gold-projects-may-be-joined-rusoro-says-update1-.html

          
          
             Two Venezuelan mines containing
about $25 billion worth of gold most likely will be developed
as a single project, according to Andre Agapov, chief executive
officer of  Rusoro Mining Ltd. (RML)   
 The projects, known as Las Cristinas and Brisas and
controlled by Crystallex International Corp. and  Gold Reserve
Inc. (GRZ) , are “one ore body, and it would be naive to think it
would be more than one company” involved in development,
Agapov said in a telephone interview from  London . He suggested
a Russian miner would get the job.  
 The mines have been in limbo since both Toronto-based
Crystallex and Gold Reserve of Spokane,  Washington , failed to
get needed environmental permits in April. On Nov. 14, Agapov
said that Rusoro was Venezuela’s “preferred partner” to
develop the site. Agapov considers his Vancouver-based company
Russian because he and the other founders are Russian.  
 “Only a Russian mining company can afford” to remedy
problems at the site, Agapov said today. “Which company, I
don’t know, but it’s the only way it’s going to be resolved,”
he said. “I see resolution in the first half of 2009.”  
 Government Take-Over  
 Venezuela ’s Mining and Basic Industries Minister Rodolfo Sanz said Nov. 5 that the country would take over the mines and
administer them.  
 Rusoro, which has taken part in Russian diplomatic
missions to Venezuela, already operates the country’s Choco10
mine.  
 At Las Cristinas and Brisas, “it would be naive to
believe it will be two ownerships, two permits. That will never
work” for Venezuela’s mining and environment ministries,
Agapov said today.  
 Together, the two mines contain more than 31 million
ounces of proven and probable reserves, valued at more than $25
billion at today’s price.  
 Gold futures for February delivery fell $6.10, or 0.7
percent, to $820.50 an ounce in  New York . The price reached a
record of $1,033.90 on March 17.  
 Rusoro gained 5 cents, or 16 percent, to 36 Canadian cents
in Toronto Stock Exchange trading.  
 Agapov declined to comment on a report on mining blog  Inca
Kola News  that his company may try to take over Gold Reserve
after being rebuffed in September. “They’re perfectly
positioned for some transaction,” he said. “I don’t know if
it will happen or not. It’s the end of the year. Maybe some
brave ones will step in.”  
 Shares Jump  
 Gold Reserve President Douglas Belanger said he knew
nothing about any attempt to take over his company and said
today’s 30 percent surge in the share price was most likely the
result of rising gold prices and the stock being worth half the
company’s breakup value.  
 “There are no bids, not that we’re aware of,” he said.
“We wouldn’t comment anyway.”  
 Gold Reserve  rose  9 cents to 39 cents. It has plunged 92
percent in the past year.  
 Belanger said he recently converted non-trading Class B
shares into sellable Class A shares because the stock’s value
had dropped enough that he could trade out of the Class B stock
without tax liability.  
 “It was just simple accounting, a chance to clean
something up that had been around for years,” he said in a
phone interview. “If I had converted them at $10, I would have
had about $9.70 taxable income. I just took advantage of the
low price.”  
 He also said the company’s debt remains outstanding and
hasn’t been bought back.  
 Crystallex spokesman Richard Marshall didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment. The stock declined 1 cent, or
7.1 percent, to 13 cents in New York. It has  fallen  94 percent
in the past year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Bodzin in Caracas at 
 sbodzin@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        