-- Profitable but pelted, Toyota shares due for rebound
-- By  Chang-Ran Kim , Asia auto correspondent - Analysis
-- Mon Dec 3, 2007 2:47am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/12/03/businesspro-toyota-shares-dc-idUST32975120071203

 

 TOKYO  (Reuters) - Shares in Toyota Motor Corp have been 
battered this year, lagging both global auto peers and a weak 
Japanese stock market, but analysts are near unanimous that the 
world's most profitable carmaker is due for a bounce. 

  Apart from its shares, other performance measures at Toyota 
have been rising: sales, profits, dividends and even margins 
are up, despite pricier commodity costs and tougher 
competition.  So it seems strange that its shares, which value the 
company at $203 billion, more than Daimler AG and Volkswagen AG 
combined, has shed 22 percent so far this year.  In recent months, the yen's volatility and worries over 
U.S. consumer sentiment amid the subprime loan crisis have 
clobbered investor sentiment in Toyota and its domestic peers, 
which earn the bulk of their profits in North America.  But auto analysts are quick to point out that among Japan's 
top three carmakers -- Toyota, Honda Motor Co and Nissan Motor 
Co -- Toyota has the least exposure to North America, and that 
its shares have been beaten down too far.  "We think strong fundamentals nurtured in Asia and other 
regions as sources of earnings make the shares look 
increasingly undervalued," UBS Securities analyst Tatsuo 
Yoshida said.  There has also been some damage to Toyota's once impeccable 
reputation for quality and reliability from recalls, but 
analysts said those concerns were inflated.  "Toyota's strategically important quality reputation has 
recently shown a little tarnish, but management is not one to 
rest on its laurels," said Christopher Richter, analyst at CLSA 
Asia-Pacific Markets.  "We believe it will overcome this problem, so the current 
share price weakness looks like an opportunity to buy."
  EMERGING MARKET GROWTH  Others think so too.  Of the 20 brokerages surveyed by Reuters Estimates, 18 have 
a buy or outperform rating on Toyota, and just one with a sell. 
The median target price from 14 polled is 8,550 yen -- 37 
percent above Friday's close.  HSBC auto analyst Seiji Sugiura, who has the sole sell 
rating, believes the discount makes sense.  "Toyota has experienced stellar growth over the past five 
years, but it faces increased risk. We foresee a rapid slowdown 
in profit growth for Toyota, compared to rivals," he said.  Sugiura worries that the slowdown in U.S. profit growth due 
to higher incentives on pickup trucks and a worsening product 
mix will be repeated in fast-growing emerging markets.  But April-September earnings highlighted Toyota's growing 
strength in emerging markets such as China, Russia and the 
Middle East, with popular cars such as the Camry sedan.  Operating profit in North America grew just 1.4 percent in 
the first half, against a 16 percent jump in overall profit.  Toyota's operating margin is the highest in the global auto 
sector, at 9.8 percent in the first half, versus 8.6 percent 
for Honda, Nissan's 7.2 percent and much lower for European 
rivals.  So why have Toyota's shares slid by a quarter since 
touching a life-time high in February of 8,350 yen?  Market watchers and participants blame Toyota's heavy 
weighting -- more than 4 percent of the TOPIX index of first 
section-listed shares, for part of the fall.  "Because of its size, Toyota is an easy target when 
investors want to go underweight on Japan, or auto stocks," 
said Goldman Sachs analyst Kota Yuzawa.  Investors eyeing the precarious U.S. car market and 
currency swings could also be overlooking the longer-term 
potential.  "Even investors with one, three or five-year funds hesitate 
because they get quarterly report cards," one analyst said. 
"They know Toyota is cheap, but they're only human."  The fall has eroded the premium Toyota used to trade at 
versus its domestic peers, and the stock now trades at a heavy 
discount to the broad market -- something Shinichi Haneda, a 
portfolio manager at AIG Global Investment, said was not 
justified.  "The Japanese auto sector promises stable growth, and it 
should at least be valued on a par with the TOPIX," he said.  At Friday's close of 6,240 yen, Toyota traded at 11 times 
projected earnings, compared with more than 17 times for the 
TOPIX. Honda's price-earnings ratio is 10.7 and Nissan's 10.8.
  TRIGGER  Overseas rivals have fared far better in the year to date, 
with loss-riddled General Motors Corp and Ford Motor Co down 
6.3 percent and 2.9 percent. In Europe, Volkswagen is up 88 
percent and Renault SA up 9 percent, despite strength in the 
euro eating into export profits.  Japanese car stocks have been dented anew in the past month 
by the dollar's plunge to a 2-1/2-year low near 107 yen  The dollar has since returned above 110 yen, making 
Japanese auto stocks due for a rebound, said Lehman Brothers 
analyst Tsuyoshi Mochimaru, adding that the market just needs a 
trigger.  That could come in the form of Toyota's projections for 
2008 vehicle sales and production, due at its year-end news 
conference on December 25, he said.  Investors could be in for a jolt earlier if U.S. November 
car sales are better than previously thought.  "Mid-month U.S. data suggests the market could provide a 
positive surprise in November, despite weak financial markets," 
said CLSA's Richter.  (Editing by  Lincoln Feast )