-- U.S. names Buffett as witness in ex-Gen Re execs trial
-- 
-- Mon Dec 3, 2007 3:58pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/12/03/businesspro-generalre-buffett-dc-idUSN0342952620071203

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - U.S. prosecutors plan to call 
Berkshire Hathaway Inc's ( BRKa.N ) Warren Buffett as a witness 
in a criminal trial of former officers of its General Re Corp 
reinsurance unit, according to a court filing on Monday. 

  Four former General Re officers, including one-time Chief 
Executive Ronald Ferguson, were indicted last year in an 
alleged scheme to help insurer American International Group Inc 
( AIG.N ) inflate reserves on its books. A former AIG officer was 
also indicted.  Jury selection in the case began before U.S. District Judge 
Christopher Droney in Connecticut federal court on Monday, and 
opening arguments in the trial are scheduled to begin on 
January 7.  A Berkshire representative declined to comment.  Also called as witnesses are several AIG officials, 
including director and former Chairman of the Board Frank Zarb, 
Vice President of Investor Relations Charlene Hamrah, and Frank 
Douglas, a senior vice president who runs the insurer's 
casualty and actuary unit.  Several Wall Street analysts are also named as witnesses, 
including Merrill Lynch's Jay Cohen, Mark Lane of William Blair 
& Co, Michael Lewis at UBS and Michael Smith of Bear Stearns & 
Co.  The government also plans to call John Houldsworth, the 
head of a former subsidiary of Gen Re who pleaded guilty to 
conspiracy to falsify SEC records, and Richard Napier, a former 
Gen Re vice president.  The fraud accusations stem from a 2000 transaction in which 
AIG and General Re executives attempted to boost AIG's loss 
reserves to make the world's largest insurer by market value 
look better to investors.  The case was investigated by the U.S. Postal Inspection 
Service.  The plan backfired, helping to lead to the departure of 
former AIG Chairman Maurice "Hank" Greenberg and the insurer's 
agreement to pay $1.64 billion to settle fraud and other 
charges.  (Reporting by  Paritosh Bansal  and Ed Leefeldt, editing by 
Dave Zimmerman,  Richard Chang )