-- DreamWorks’ ‘Megamind’ Tops Weekend With $46 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-11-08T23:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/-megamind-is-weekend-s-top-movie-with-47-7-million-in-sales.html
The computer-animated “Megamind”
was the top film at theaters in the U.S. and Canada, generating
$46 million in sales for  DreamWorks Animation Inc.  and
distributor Paramount Pictures.  “Due Date,” a comedy starring  Robert Downey Jr ., opened
in second place with $32.7 million, researcher  Hollywood.com
Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Megamind,” featuring the voices of  Brad Pitt  and  Will Ferrell , is the third release this year from  Jeffrey Katzenberg ’s DreamWorks Animation. The two previous movies,
“How to Train Your Dragon,” with $217.6 million in domestic
sales, and “Shrek Forever After,” with $238.4 million, also
opened in first place, according to researcher  Box Office Mojo .  “It’s taking advantage of the higher ticket prices on
animated 3-D films,” said  Gitesh Pandya , editor of New York-
based Boxofficeguru.com. “It should continue to do well next
weekend because kids’ movies usually have good legs. The big
question is how it will hold up against the new Harry Potter
film two weeks from now.”  In “Megamind,” a brilliant criminal voiced by Ferrell
finally outwits superhero Metro Man, played by Pitt. In the wake
of his victory, Megamind must decide how to respond to the
arrival of a new, rival villain. The movie was released by
Paramount, part of  Sumner Redstone ’s  Viacom Inc.  Of 100 reviews
compiled by Rottentomatoes.com, 67 percent were positive.  ‘Due Date’  Animated films have historically done well in competition
with the Harry Potter franchise during the holiday movie season
which began this past weekend, according to Pandya. He said
“Megamind” may go on to make four times its opening weekend
revenue.  Time Warner Inc.’s  “Harry Potter and the Deathly
Hallows: Part I,” the seventh movie based on the novels by J.K.
Rowling, opens on Nov. 19.  Warner Bros.’ “Due Date” stars Downey as a man trying to
get home in time for the birth of his first child. After missing
his flight, he hitches a ride with an aspiring actor played by
“The Hangover” co-star Zach Galifianakis. Both movies are
directed by Todd Phillips.  “It’s a very strong opening for an R-rated comedy, which
rarely opens north of $30 million,” Pandya said. “But it will
erode faster than ‘Hangover’ despite the star power because the
word-of-mouth isn’t fantastic.”  ‘For Colored Girls’  The weekend’s other new film opening in wide release,  Tyler Perry ’s “For Colored Girls,” took in $19.5 million for Lions
Gate Entertainment Corp. The film, directed by Perry, is based
on the play by Ntozake Shange. Janet Jackson and Loretta Devine
star.  The action comedy “Red” fell to fourth from third with
sales of $8.7 million for Summit Entertainment LLC. The movie
has taken in $71.7 million in four weeks of release.  “Saw 3-D,” the seventh of the torture movies featuring
the killer Jigsaw, fell to fifth from first with $7.7 million
for Lions Gate.  The weekend’s top 12 films grossed $146.9 million, up 34
percent from a year earlier, according to Hollywood.com. This
year’s total increased to $8.97 billion, up 3.6 percent from a
year earlier. Total attendance is down 1.6 percent.  “It’s a very strong way to kick off the holiday movie
season,” Pandya said. “We had three movies, which appeal to
different audiences, that all had solid openings, so it puts us
in a good position to end up this year.”  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Nov.
5 through Nov. 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 