-- Madagascar's President Urges Voters to Approve Constitutional Changes
-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 2010-11-07T18:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/madagascar-s-president-urges-voters-to-approve-constitutional-changes.html
Madagascar President  Andry Rajoelina 
urged the country to vote “yes” in a Nov 17. constitutional
referendum, making promises on housing and food subsidies,
employment and large construction projects.  “The country requires your opinion on Wednesday 17th,”
Rajoelina told a crowd packed into the main sports stadium in
the capital, Antananarivo, yesterday. “The victory of
Madagascar is in your hands.”  Rajoelina, 36, pledged development projects such as new
stadiums, hospitals, housing and transportation links. “The
time to talk is over. Now is the time to build,” he said,
unveiling scale models of a new train system and the Indian
Ocean’s largest cement factory. He also showed a life-size model
of one of 10,000, two-bedroom houses to go on sale “within a
few months,” and said the state would modernize Air
Madagascar’s fleet of planes.  The government hopes the new constitution will end a
political and economic crisis after Rajoelina ousted President
Marc Ravalomanana last year. Mediation efforts by the South
African Development Community, or SADC, to find a power-sharing
agreement between Rajoelina and opposition leaders have failed.
The opposition refused to participate in a national conference
called by the government to discuss the proposed constitutional
changes.  The government should re-engage with international
mediators and opposition parties and review plans for the
referendum, U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for African
Affairs  Karl Wycoff  told reporters Nov. 2.  Power Concentration  Sahondra Rabenarivo, a lawyer with the Madagascar Law
Offices law firm, is voting “no.” Her main concerns were over
the president’s increased concentration of power, the failure to
address decentralisation and a provision that would allow the
transitional parliament and president to remain in place
indefinitely, she said in an interview yesterday.  She said she was concerned that a positive result in the
referendum could be used to “legitimise” the government.  In his speech, Rajoelina promised to reduce prices and
imports by funding the restoration of a state-owned sugar
refinery. The president held a similar event two weeks ago to
launch a program offering 15 basic products at about 50 percent
of normal prices to underprivileged families.  Rajoelina seized power in March 2009. The government has
scheduled legislative and presidential elections for next March
and May respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hannah McNeish  in Antananarivo via Johannesburg at  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 