-- AIG Plotting Bond Market Comeback as Swaps Fall: Credit Markets
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-11-08T16:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/aig-staging-comeback-in-bond-market-as-default-swaps-fall-credit-markets.html
  American International Group Inc . is
plotting a comeback in the bond market as perceptions of the
insurer’s creditworthiness rise to the highest since before its
$182.3 billion rescue by the government in September 2008.  AIG is preparing to raise money in a debt sale by year-end
as Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  seeks independence
from the U.S. government, the New York-based company said in a
Nov. 5 filing. The cost of protecting AIG’s debt with credit-
default swaps has tumbled to 188 basis points from as high as
3,683 in May 2009, according to data provider CMA.  Benmosche, 66, has completed about $37 billion in
divestitures of overseas units in the past month as part of a
plan to repay U.S. taxpayers. The insurer has made “huge
progress” in its restructuring and will emerge from government
ownership ranked among the world’s largest insurers, Benmosche
told staff last week. AIG bonds returned 2.75 percent in
October, the best performance among the top 50 issuers in the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master Index.  “As the story materializes and you can see what the core
franchise will look like, that’s getting priced into the
bonds,” said Angelo Graci, managing director at Chapdelaine
Credit Partners, a New York-based bond broker. “AIG’s debt is
trading at levels that require comparison to peers” such as
MetLife Inc., the biggest U.S. life insurer, Graci said.  Demonstrate Access  AIG is set to take advantage of demand for corporate bonds
as the  Federal Reserve ’s effort to reduce unemployment and avert
deflation by keeping  interest rates  at record lows and
purchasing $600 billion of Treasuries drives investors toward
riskier borrowers.  A bond offering would be the parent company’s first since
the month before its rescue. AIG must demonstrate access to
capital markets before the U.S. withdraws its support, U.S.
Treasury Department Chief Restructuring Officer  Jim Millstein 
said in May.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold corporate bonds worldwide rather than government
debentures expanded last week for the first time since the
period ended Sept. 24. Relative yields climbed 1 basis point
last week to 165 basis points, or 1.65 percentage points,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Corporate Index. Spreads have declined from a high this year of
201 basis points on June 11. Average yields fell to 3.42 percent
from 3.45 on Oct. 29.  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. climbed for the first time in six days.  Default Swaps Rise  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1.7 basis points to a
mid-price of 87.3 basis points as of 11:49 a.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, ended Nov. 5 at 85.6, the
lowest since April 15.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.    United Parcel Service Inc ., the world’s largest package-
delivery company, plans to sell senior unsecured debt in a two-
part benchmark offering as soon as today, according to a person
familiar with the transaction.  AIG’s Plan  Proceeds from the notes maturing in January 2021 and
November 2040 may be used to make early contributions to certain
primary domestic pension plans that are otherwise payable during
the next five years, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set. Benchmark sales are
typically at least $500 million.  A debt sale is part of AIG’s plan to exit government
ownership and earn investment-grade standalone credit grades
from the major ratings companies. After repaying the Fed with
proceeds from asset sales, AIG plans to convert the Treasury’s
$49.1 billion stake into common stock for sales on the open
market by the end of March.  “If they’re thinking about recapitalization in general,
that means they’re moving forward with what kind of firm they
want to be in terms of size,” said  Mirko Mikelic , senior
portfolio manager at Fifth Third Asset Management, who oversees
$13 billion of fixed-income assets in  Grand Rapids ,  Michigan .
“It says a lot about the market too.”  AIG will focus on global property-casualty coverage and
U.S. life insurance after selling its two largest overseas life
insurance divisions,  AIA Group Ltd . and American Life Insurance
Co. AIG divested a 67 percent stake in AIA for $20.5 billion
last month in  Hong Kong ’s largest public offering. MetLife paid
$16.2 billion for Alico on Nov. 1.  Share Surge  AIG’s third-quarter profit from continuing insurance
operations climbed 6.4 percent to $2.05 billion. The results
“reflected continued business stabilization,” said Robert Haines, an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in New York, in a Nov. 5
research note. AIG has been “an amazing turnaround story.”  The company’s shares surged 52 percent this year through
Nov. 5. Shares fell $1.10, or 2.4 percent, to $44.51 as of 11:43
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  AIG raised $3.25 billion in its last sale of corporate
bonds in August 2008, Bloomberg data show. The insurer sold 8.25
percent, 10-year senior unsecured notes in a private placement
that priced at par to yield 432.8 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  bond market  has also gained confidence in AIG’s
International Lease Finance Corp., which this year had its first
debt sale through the capital markets since 2008. Los Angeles-
based ILFC’s $1 billion of 6.375 percent notes due March 2013
have soared to 104.25 cents on the dollar to yield 4.47 percent,
Trace data show. The securities traded as low as 53 cents in
March 2009.  Plane Leasing  The plane-leasing unit said in August that it increased
liquidity by more than $12.5 billion this year by extending
credit agreements, selling aircraft and issuing bonds.  The cost to protect AIG debt with credit-default swaps is
at about the lowest since June 2008, declining from as high as
604 basis points on May 25.  Prices on AIG default swaps imply the debt is ranked Ba1 as
of Nov. 4, up from Ba3 in September and four levels below its
actual A3 rating, according to Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets
research group.  “If the trend line continues in the same direction, that
would suggest it won’t be that long before they achieve
investment-grade status,” said Allerton Smith, senior director
of Moody’s capital markets research, a unit of Moody’s
Analytics. “The market is continuing to gain a greater degree
of comfort with the company’s operations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  