-- Aldar, Dubai Islamic, Emaar, National Bank of Oman: Gulf Equity Preview
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 2010-11-07T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/aldar-dubai-islamic-emaar-national-bank-of-oman-gulf-equity-preview.html
The following stocks may rise or fall
in Gulf Arab markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and
prices are from the last close.  The  QE Index  climbed 1.3 percent, Dubai’s  DFM General Index 
gained 0.2 percent while Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index  slipped
0.4 percent. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  gained 1.9
percent, the biggest rise since Sept. 4.  Aldar Properties PJSC  (ALDAR UH): Abu Dhabi’s largest
developer will need 9.8 billion dirhams ($2.7 billion) by 2011
to “survive” as the United Arab Emirates’ real-estate market
recovers, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said. The shares lost
4.2 percent to 2.3 dirhams.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC  (DIB UH): The biggest Shariah-
compliant lender in the United Arab Emirates said third-quarter
net profit was 270 million dirhams compared with 301 million
dirhams in the second quarter. The shares rose 0.4 percent to
2.37 dirhams.  Emaar Properties PJSC  (EMAAR UH): The builder of the
world’s tallest skyscraper plans to generate 50 percent of its
income outside its home market in the next few years, Chairman
Mohamed Alabbar said Nov. 4.  Separately, the builder is Bank of America’s preferred real
estate stock in the U.A.E. for its “stronger fundamentals, more
attractive valuation and absence of funding issues,” the bank
said in a note. The shares advanced 0.3 percent to 3.74 dirhams.  National Bank of Oman  (NBOB OM): The sultanate’s second-
biggest bank by assets was cut to “hold” from “buy” and
assigned a 0.4 rial price estimate at Bank Muscat. The shares
were unchanged at 0.36 rial.  Kuwait Real Estate Co.  (KRE KK): The Kuwait-based property
company posted a 60 percent increase in third-quarter profit to
1.6 million dinars ($5.7 million). The shares retreated 1.5
percent to 65 fils.       Sorouh Real Estate Co.  (SOROUH UH): Abu Dhabi’s second-
biggest developer by market value needs funding to deliver
properties on time, Bank of America said in a report. The shares
slipped 0.6 percent to 1.70 dirhams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;  Mourad Haroutunian  in Riyadh
at   mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  