-- Amazon.com Said Near Agreement to Buy Diapers.com Parent for $540 Million
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2010-11-08T05:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/amazon-com-said-near-agreement-to-buy-diapers-com-parent-for-540-million.html
Amazon.com Inc.  is near an agreement
to buy  Quidsi Inc. , the owner of Diapers.com and Soap.com, for
$540 million, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  An announcement may come as soon as today, said one of
the people, who declined to be identified because the deal isn’t
yet public.  Quidsi, which expects to ship 500 million diapers this
year, will help Amazon cater to new parents and gain expertise
in warehouse management and low-cost shipping. Amazon Chief
Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos , 46, bought Zappos.com Inc. last
year for $1.2 billion to expand sales of shoes and clothing and
gain share against other e-commerce providers such as EBay Inc.  “It’s a business Amazon was in, but one they weren’t a
leader in,” said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP in
New York. He has a “sell” rating on Amazon shares. When they
see a specialty company dominating a category, “they’ll step in
and buy it.”  The purchase also removes a competitor for Seattle-based
 Amazon , which began selling diapers in mid-2006, a year after
Diapers.com debuted. Amazon began offering a free three-month
trial of Amazon Prime to mothers ordering diapers and other baby
items to counter Diapers.com’s free shipping.  Buying Spree  Quidsi expects sales to increase 67 percent to $300 million
this year, compared with the 39 percent revenue growth analysts
 predict  for Amazon. The U.S. e-commerce market will grow 11
percent to $173 billion this year, according to Forrester
Research. Quidsi’s revenue may rise to $1.3 billion in 2012,
Quidsi Chief Executive Officer Marc Lore said earlier this year.  Amazon rose $1.84, or about 1 percent, to $170.77 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading on Nov. 5. It has  risen  27 percent this
year.  Amazon, which had $5.9 billion in  cash  and short-term
securities at the end of September, is on an acquisition spree.
In June, it bought Woot.com, a site that offers a daily
discounted item. It also agreed last month to purchase BuyVIP, a
fashion site, for an undisclosed price to broaden its
geographical reach into Spain, Italy and Germany.  Drew Herdener , a spokesman for Amazon, and Lindsey Scott, a
spokeswoman for Quidsi, couldn’t be reached for comment.  Quidsi was founded by Lore and  Vinit Bharara , and its name
is Latin for “What if?” Backers of the Jersey City, New
Jersey-based company include Accel Partners, Bessemer Venture
Partners, BEV Capital, MentorTech Ventures and New Enterprise
Associates.  Keep Coming Back  The company profits from diaper-buying customers who also
purchase higher-margin products such as brand-name baby shampoo,
wipes and formula.  Amazon is looking for products that customers need to keep
coming back for that aren’t just one-time transactions, said
 Josh Goldman , a partner at Norwest Venture Partners in Palo
Alto, California. He oversees the venture capital firm’s
investments in e-commerce companies.  “When you can get into a replenishment model, it’s very
powerful,” Goldman said. “Amazon hasn’t done much of that on
their own. The Diapers.com guys have done a really good job of
getting you to come back for replenishment items.”  On Nov. 1, Quidsi opened a third site, BeautyBar.com, which
sells makeup and fragrances. The company plans to open another
one for toys next year, CEO Lore has said.  Lore said in an interview earlier this year there’s room
for one big winner in e-commerce, given the costs required to
build warehouses and shipping systems that deliver products
quickly. Quidsi’s  sites  offer free overnight shipping for about
70 percent of the U.S. on orders of more than $25.  Quidsi also received a purchase offer from Wal-Mart Stores
Inc., according to Fortune, which  reported  the Amazon deal on
Nov. 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 