-- Arabtec Quarterly Net Falls 96% on Canceled Projects
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2010-11-07T09:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/arabtec-third-quarter-profit-drops-96-on-property-slump-misses-estimates.html
Arabtec Holding PJSC  reported a 96
percent slump in third-quarter profit, missing analysts’
estimates as the biggest construction company in the United Arab
Emirates was hurt by project cancellations.  Net income  dropped to 6.8 million dirhams ($1.9 million)
from 166.6 million dirhams a year earlier, Dubai-based Arabtec
said in a statement to the bourse today. The median estimate of
six analysts was for a profit of 105 million dirhams, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Half of all planned real-estate projects in Dubai were
canceled or face that fate after the credit crisis eroded demand
and a housing glut drove down property prices. Construction
companies in Dubai are searching for contracts elsewhere.  The results are “mainly driven by a higher-than-expected
expenses and provisions against receivables,” said  Jad Abbas , a
real estate analyst at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. “This highlights
continued issues with collections of receivables, probably from
within Dubai.”  Third-quarter revenue declined 23 percent to 1.28 billion
dirhams from 1.66 billion dirhams a year earlier, while general
and administrative expenses rose to 156 million dirhams from 101
million dirhams,  according to the statement.  The company set
aside 40 million dirhams in provisions, Abbas said. It has 4.8
billion dirhams of receivables at the end of the September,
according to its statement.  Shares Decline  Arabtec fell as much as 5.6 percent to 2.03 dirhams in
Dubai. The shares are down 23 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 2.46 billion dirhams.  Arabtec’s Saudi unit won a 5 billion-riyal ($1.3 billion)
order to build 5,000 villas for Saudi Binladin Group in the
Eastern Province, the company said on Oct. 4. Arabtec said last
month a unit got a contract to develop a project in Egypt valued
at more than 195 million dirhams.  The firm’s fourth-quarter should show “a slight pickup” as
Arabtec starts work on recently awarded projects, Abbas said.  The company is going ahead with a plan to build a
skyscraper in the center of St. Petersburg, Russia, Arabtec
Chief Financial Officer  Ziad Makhzoumi  said on Nov. 3.  OAO
Gazprom  Neft, the oil arm of Russia’s natural-gas exporter,
hired Arabtec to build what may become Europe’s tallest
building. Construction of the St. Petersburg tower is planned to
start in the spring of 2011. Gazprom won final approval from the
government even though the project faced a opposition.  Arabtec said today its board accepted the resignation of
 Arif Naqvi , chief executive officer of Abraaj Capital Ltd., and
appointed  Abdulla Kalban  as a new member.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 