-- Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Gold Rises to Record on Bets Dollar Will Falter
-- B y   M i l l i e   M u n s h i
-- 2010-11-07T23:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/asia-commodity-day-ahead-gold-rises-to-record-on-bets-dollar-will-falter.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  ECONOMIC EVENTS, AGRICULTURE REPORTS:  
TOP STORY:  Gold Rises to Record on Bets Dollar to Falter; Silver Advances  Gold rose to a record on bets the Federal Reserve’s
stimulus plan to bolster the U.S. economy will erode the value
of the dollar, boosting demand for precious metals as
alternative assets.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  BHP Bid Shows Canada Needs Clear Rules, Waugh Says (Update1)  Canada needs clear rules on foreign takeovers after the
federal government blocked BHP Billiton Ltd.’s hostile bid for
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., Bank of Nova Scotia Chief
Executive Officer Richard Waugh said.  Zanaga Said to Get Orders for All Shares in $100 Million IPO  Zanaga Iron Ore Co., a mining company with operations in
the Republic of Congo, has received orders for all the stock
available in its $100 million initial public offering in London,
said two people familiar with the matter.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Rises to 28-Month High as Chilean Strike May Curb Output  Copper prices rose to a 28-month high after workers went on
strike at a mine in Chile, the world’s largest producer.  Collahuasi Miners Begin ‘Long’ Strike After Talks Fail (Update2)  Workers at Anglo American Plc and Xstrata Plc’s Collahuasi
unit in northern Chile started a strike today at the world’s
fourth-biggest copper mine after wage talks failed. Copper rose
to a 28-month high in New York.  MINING:  Molycorp to Supply Rare Earths to Grace for Catalysts (Update2)  Molycorp Inc., owner of the world’s largest non-Chinese
deposit of rare-earth metals, agreed to supply U.S. chemical
producer W. R. Grace & Co. for as long as eight years with an
element used in petroleum processing.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Goldman Says Fed’s Measures Pose ‘Upside Risk’ to Gold Prices  Gold prices may keep rising following the Federal Reserve’s
decision to extend its economic stimulus measures, according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  AGRICULTURE:  Cotton Futures Extend Rally on ‘Inexhaustible Chinese Appetite’  Cotton futures in New York rose to a record for the fourth
straight day as concerns mounted that global demand led by China,
the world’s biggest user, will outstrip supplies and reduce
inventories.  Corn Falls as Farmers Boost Sales After Rally to 26-Month High  Corn futures fell as U.S. farmers increased sales after
prices rallied yesterday a 26-month high.  Wheat Futures Rise on Outlook for Shrinking Global Grain Supply  Wheat futures rose to the highest level in almost four
weeks on speculation that a government report next week will
show shrinking U.S. and world grain supplies.  Soybean Futures Rise to 26-Month High as Demand Surges in China  Soybeans rose to the highest price in 26 months on signs of
surging demand in China, the world’s biggest importer and
consumer.  Coffee Falls From 13-Year High; Sugar Gains; Cocoa, OJ Decline  Coffee futures declined on concern that a rally to a 13-
year-high will reduce consumer demand as Starbucks Corp. said
the recent gains are unsustainable. Sugar gained, while cocoa
and orange juice slumped.  SHIPPING:  Baltic Dry Index’s Drop Slows as Coal Demand Aids Panamax Rents  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity shipping costs,
fell the least in seven sessions as stronger coal demand buoyed
rents for ships that steam through the Panama Canal.  ECONOMIES:  U.S. Economy: Payrolls Gain Is First in Five Months (Update2)  Employment in the U.S. rose in October for the first time
in five months, a sign businesses may be starting to gain
confidence in the prospects for a faster pace of growth.  OTHER MARKETS:  Treasuries Drop, Stocks Rise, Dollar Strengthens Amid Jobs Data  Treasuries fell, with five-year note yields rising for the
first time in seven days, while U.S. benchmark equity indexes
gained to two-year highs and the dollar strengthened as jobs
growth bolstered optimism in the economy  Oil Surges to Two-Year High as Jobs Rise More Than Forecast  Crude oil surged to its highest level in two years as U.S.
payrolls rose more than forecast in October, a sign the economy
is recovering, and the dollar headed for a weekly decline
against most major currencies.  SPORTS:  Red Sox’s Werner to Take Post at Liverpool, Replace Broughton  Thomas C. Werner, the chairman of Major League Baseball’s
Boston Red Sox, will assume the same role at 18-time English
soccer champion Liverpool when British Airways Plc chairman
Martin Broughton steps down.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  