-- Attack on Russian Journalist May Have Link to Putin-Backed Moscow Highway
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-11-07T16:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/attack-on-russian-journalist-may-have-link-to-putin-backed-moscow-highway.html
A Russian reporter is in a coma after
an assault that may have been linked to his coverage of a
highway project supported by Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin .  Oleg Kashin, a political correspondent for Kommersant
daily, was assaulted outside his central Moscow apartment
building early yesterday by unknown individuals in an attack the
newspaper’s editor in chief said was connected to his work.
Kashin, 30, received fractures to his jaw, while his skull and
fingers were broken, forcing doctors to put him in an artificial
coma, Moscow-based Kommersant said in a  statement  yesterday.  His writing covers Russian politics, including opposition
protests and activities of youth movements. Kashin wrote
regularly about the campaign against the highway, including an
Aug. 31 article in which he cited ecologists as accusing local
authorities of pressuring residents to back construction.  “It’s quite possible that Kashin was attacked because of
the Khimki project,”  Oleg Mitvol , deputy head of Russia’s
environmental watchdog until last year, said in a phone
interview from Moscow. “The aim is to make people frightened
and stop them from fighting for civil rights.”  The attack on Kashin follows a series of assaults and
murders of journalists in Russia in recent years. Most of the
cases remain unsolved, including the 2004 murder of  Paul Klebnikov , the U.S. editor of Forbes Inc.’s Russian edition, and
the 2006 killing of opposition journalist  Anna Politkovskaya .  Toll Road  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  suspended in August
Putin’s plan to build a toll road between the capital and St.
Petersburg via a forest and ordered further studies and public
hearings. The route came under fire from environmental activists
who claim the project will damage the  Khimki  forest near Moscow.  The assault comes two years after the near-fatal beating of
a journalist who campaigned against the government plans to
build a highway to St. Petersburg through the forest. Mikhail
Beketov, the editor of a newspaper based in Khimki, had a leg
amputated as a result of the attack. Another activist,
Konstantin Fetisov, was assaulted with a baseball bat near his
house on Nov. 4 and is in serious condition in hospital.  Vinci SA , the world’s biggest construction company, on
Sept. 18 defended the chosen route for Russia’s first major toll
road from Moscow to St. Petersburg, saying the government had
provided no alternative proposal.  The Rueil-Malmaison, France-based  company , which signed a
60 billion-ruble ($1.9 billion) concession in 2009 to build and
operate the initial stretch of the highway, had yet to receive
any indication from the state on plans to change the proposed
route, Vinci Concessions Chief Executive Officer Louis-Roch
Burghard said.  ‘Special Control’  Medvedev  ordered  Prosecutor General  Yuri Chaika  and
Interior Minister  Rashid Nurgaliyev  to take the case of the
assault on Kashin under their “special control,” according to
a statement posted on the Kremlin’s website yesterday.  The proposed highway between Moscow and St. Petersburg
would cut a swathe through the Khimki forest and allow lucrative
construction projects, according to Mitvol.  Valentina Skobileva, a spokeswoman at the Khimki district
administration, couldn’t be reached for comment today, the end
of a four-day public holiday weekend in Russia. Nor could Marina
Gridneva, the chief spokeswoman for the prosecutor-general’s
office, be reached.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  