-- Australia Faces Lower Tax Revenue After Dollar Surge, Swan Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-11-08T01:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/australia-faces-lower-tax-revenue-after-dollar-surge-swan-says.html
Australia’s strengthening currency
will crimp tax revenue, especially levies on resources companies,
and influence the midyear budget forecast to be released
tomorrow, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  The rise of Australian dollar, the best-performing major
currency against the greenback since July, is cutting into tax
receipts as the value of export earnings declines, Swan said in
a statement yesterday. The government will detail the impact in
the economic and fiscal outlook scheduled for release at 11:30
a.m. in Canberra, his office said today.  The so-called Aussie closed above parity with the U.S.
dollar for a third day on Nov. 5 as investors bet the nation
will increase interest rates further to slow inflation. That’s
offsetting gains in prices for Australia’s export commodities,
including iron ore and coal, which are negotiated in the U.S.
currency, Swan said.  “The biggest factor in the midyear update will be the
negative impact the high Australian dollar is having on
revenues,” he said. “The higher dollar means our exporters
bring home less income and that flows through to reduced company
and resource taxes.”  In July, Swan was aiming for government budget surpluses of
A$3.5 billion ($3.55 billion) in 2012-13 and A$4.5 billion the
following year, according to the pre-election budget update. The
government’s fiscal year ends June 30.  ‘Exit Strategy’  “Continued delivery of your deficit-exit strategy will be
a key, but very difficult, priority,” the Treasury said in
briefing documents to Gillard’s incoming government, released on
the department’s  website  last month after the Aug. 21 election.  In tomorrow’s review, Swan is planning to cut spending by
as much as A$10 billion to keep the government on track to exit
from a A$54.8 billion deficit posted in the 12 months ended June
30, the Sydney Morning Herald reported today, without saying
where it got the information about budget reductions.  The higher local dollar will lower mining-tax revenue,
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  told Channel Nine yesterday,
without being more specific. The total tax take may fall by as
much as A$10 billion ($10.2 billion), the Australian newspaper
 reported  Nov. 6, without saying where it got the information.  The midyear budget update will outline new savings
proposals to offset falling revenue, the newspaper said.  Mining Tax  The government’s proposed 30 percent tax on profit from
coal and iron ore mines was forecast to bring in an extra A$10.5
billion in the first two years from producers including  BHP
Billiton Ltd. , the world’s largest mining company, and Rio Tinto
Group, Swan said in July.  Revenue forecasts for the mining tax were made when the
Australian dollar was trading at 85 U.S. cents, so the
currency’s rise to parity means the forecasts “obviously won’t
be the same,” Swan said in a Nov. 5 interview with the
Australian.  The government still plans to return the budget to surplus
in 2012-13, Gillard said yesterday.  “Despite some hefty threats to the bottom line, the Mid-
Year Economic and Fiscal Outlook will still document the most
positive turnaround in the budget since records were first kept
in the 1960s,” Swan said in his statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  