-- Qantas 747 Jet Suffers Engine Flameout a Day After A380 Blowout
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-11-07T01:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/australian-investigators-seeks-crucial-disk-in-qantas-a380-engine-probe.html
Australian air safety officials are
asking Indonesians to help recover a “crucial” part from the
blown-out engine of a  Qantas Airways Ltd.  A380 jet that made an
emergency return to Singapore on Nov. 4.  Residents of Batam Island should hand to local police any
plane parts resembling a geared disk, the Australian Transport
Safety Bureau said in a statement on its website today. The
website shows a  photograph  of the part investigators seek.  “The recovery of that disk could be crucial to a full
understanding of the nature of the engine failure, and may have
implications for the prevention of future similar occurrences,”
the bureau said.  Qantas’s six Airbus SAS A380s remain grounded as the
airline continues investigating the midair engine explosion that
showered debris on Batam and forced the jet, carrying 466 people,
to make an emergency landing in Singapore. A day later, a Qantas
747 jumbo jet made by Boeing Co. returned to Singapore after
flames erupted from one of its engines.  A third Qantas aircraft make a priority landing at London’s
Heathrow airport on Nov 5. The pilot had received a warning that
there may be a problem with the hydraulic fuel system,  Simon Rushton , a spokesman for Sydney-based Qantas, said by phone
today. After landing, it was discovered the system was working
normally, he said.  Qantas will announce the results of its checks on the A380
fleet as soon as possible, Rushton said.  Engine Failure  Rolls-Royce Group Plc , which manufactures the engines used
on the wide-body A380, tumbled in London trading on Nov. 5 after
Qantas Chief Executive Alan Joyce said the incident was most
likely due to material failure or a design flaw.  Rolls-Royce shares fell 4.9 percent to 591 pence on Nov. 5,
adding to a 5 percent slide the day before. Qantas shares
dropped 1 percent to A$2.86.  The disk pictured on the ATSB’s website is part of the
turbine blade system, which provides about 70 percent of an
aircraft’s thrust, said  Steve Purvinas , federal secretary of the
Australian Licensed Aircraft Engineers Association, which has
more than 2,000 members at Qantas.  “It is quite a critically designed component,” he said.  ATSB officials are flying to the U.K. and Singapore today
to oversee the investigation into what caused the explosion,
according to the bureau’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  