-- Republican Cantor Urges Wealthy Get Same Tax Cut Benefits as Middle Class
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 2010-11-08T05:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/tax-cut-extension-for-top-earners-shouldn-t-be-temporary-eric-cantor-says.html
Representative  Eric Cantor  of
Virginia, the House’s No. 2 Republican, said Congress should do
more than approve just a short-term extension of current tax
rates for top earners, as a battle looms in Congress over the
expiration of the tax cuts enacted under former President  George W. Bush .  Cantor said failing to extend the reduction for the
highest-earners on the same terms as for other Americans would
create uncertainty that would threaten economic recovery.  “I am not for decoupling the rates,” Cantor said
yesterday on the “Fox News Sunday” program. “I am not for
raising taxes in a recession, especially when it comes to job
creators.”  Republicans, who will take control of the House in January
after last week’s election victory, disagree with many Democrats
on the future of the tax cuts that were enacted in 2001 and 2003
under Bush. The lower rates would expire at the end of the year
without congressional action, forcing lawmakers to address the
issue in a lame-duck session beginning later this month.  President  Barack Obama  said he wants to negotiate with
Republicans on the issue.  “Hopefully we can agree on a set of facts that leads to
compromise,” the president said in a CBS “60 Minutes”
interview. “My number one priority coming into this is making
sure that middle-class families don’t see their tax rates go up
Jan. 1.”  Temporary Extension  In the Senate, where Republicans will remain in the
minority in January, their leader,  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky,
said his party is willing to consider a temporary extension of
the current top tax rates.  “We’re willing to start talking about getting an extension
of some kind,” McConnell said on CBS’s “Face the Nation”
yesterday. “We don’t think raising taxes on small business is a
good idea.”  Obama has opposed keeping the tax cuts for individuals
making more than $200,000 a year and married couples earning
more than $250,000. White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said Nov.
4 that the president is “open” to negotiations for a temporary
extension of all the tax rates.  Cantor said such a temporary extension would suggest that
rates will rise in the future. “I am not for sending any signal
to small businesses in this country that they’re going to have
their tax rates go up,” he said on Fox.  Bush Tax Cuts  The fight over the Bush tax cuts is developing as
Republicans call for reduced  government spending . In television
appearances yesterday, Republican leaders said the $1.3 trillion
federal deficit is a sign of excessive spending, not the need
for more revenue.  “The federal government doesn’t have this problem because
it taxes too little,” McConnell said. “The federal government
has this problem because it spends too much.”  Obama has invited congressional leaders from both parties
to the White House on Nov. 18 to talk “substantively about how
we move the American people’s agenda forward.”  Extending the tax cuts on the first $250,000 of household
income would add more than $3 trillion to the debt over the next
decade. Obama has said the U.S. can’t afford to lose an
additional $700 billion in revenue that would be brought in by
letting rates rise for the top 3 percent of taxpayers.  Small Business  Cantor and the Republicans say raising the rate on high-
income individuals would boost taxes on small business because
partnerships, sole proprietors and so-called S-corporations let
people report business income on their individual taxes. That
definition includes actors, authors and investors such as  George Soros , along with bona fide small businesses.  Obama and Democrats say restoring the tax rate to 39.6
percent from 35 percent now would affect fewer than 3 percent of
small businesses.  With a jobless rate at 9.6 percent, the economy was a top
issue in the Nov. 2 midterm elections in which Republicans won a
majority in the House of Representatives and narrowed the
Democratic edge in the Senate.  Senator-elect  Rand Paul , a Kentucky Republican, said the
government must halt the growth of its debt and may need to cut
wages for federal employees, raise the retirement age and
consider cutting Social Security benefits for those under 55.  Debt Limit  He and Senator  James DeMint , a South Carolina Republican,
said in television appearances that they would oppose raising
the limit on how much debt the government can assume, which
Congress may need to vote on next year.  “We need to shrink the size of government,” Paul said on
ABC’s “This Week” program.  Federal Reserve policy makers last week announced a second
round of large-scale asset purchases in a bid to boost growth,
even as recent reports showed larger-than-forecast gains in
retail sales and manufacturing.  Congressman  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, in line to become
Republican chairman of the House Budget Committee, said the
planned $600 billion purchase of Treasuries by the central bank
is a “big mistake.”  “This is going to give us an inflation problem in the
future,” Ryan said on Fox today. “The Fed should focus on
keeping our money sound and honest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Selway  in San Francisco at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net 
 Alison Fitzgerald  in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  