-- Azerbaijan's Ruling Yeni Party Is Poised to Win Parliamentary Elections
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2010-11-07T21:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/azerbaijan-s-ruling-yeni-party-is-poised-to-win-parliamentary-elections.html
Azerbaijan, an energy-rich former
Soviet republic on the Caspian Sea, voted yesterday in elections
for the 125-seat parliament, with the current ruling party set
to defeat the country’s opposition, according to exit polls and
a ruling party official.  “We did expect the victory, as people want to continue the
current course of the government and the Yeni party,” said
Aydin Mirzazade, an official from the ruling party, Yeni
Azerbaijan, on the phone from Baku. “I know that the
opposition says that we rigged the elections but that is not
true.”  An exit poll by the local ELS Independent Research Centre
declared the ruling party as a winner.  The Central Election Commission in the capital Baku said on
its website that voter turnout was more than 50 percent. As
many as 1,029 international observers were present, the
commission said.  The Aliyev family has ruled Azerbaijan since the late
 Heydar Aliyev , father of the current leader, became president in
1993. He had previously been the republic’s Communist Party boss
under Soviet rule from 1969 to 1982, so the family has dominated
Azeri politics for nearly 40 years.  Ilham Aliyev  took over from his father in 2003. He won a
second presidential term in October 2008, the limit under
Azerbaijan’s constitution.  Azeri opposition leaders, including  Isa Gambar , who lost to
Aliyev in the 2003 election, denounced the parliamentary
elections.  “We have done everything possible to take part in
this election fairly, but the government cut all of our chances,
the loss was unavoidable,” Gambar said in an interview
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this
story:  Helena Bedwell  in Baku at  hbedwell@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story: James Gomez in
Prague at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  