-- Berlusconi Should Resign, Italian Lower House of Parliament Speaker Says
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2010-11-07T14:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/berlusconi-should-resign-italian-lower-house-of-parliament-speaker-says.html
A political ally of  Silvio Berlusconi 
urged the Italian prime minister to resign and agree on a new
government as tension in the coalition mounts.  Gianfranco Fini , who in July broke away from the People of
Freedom party he founded with Berlusconi, called for a new
government with a “new political agenda” with the support from
the opposition Union of Centrists, which previously backed the
Berlusconi government between 2001 and 2006.  “Berlusconi needs to show the political courage he’s shown
before and take the decision to resign,” Fini, president of the
Chamber of Deputies, the lower house of the Italian Parliament,
said in a  speech  near Perugia today and broadcast nationally.  Berlusconi’s governing coalition is under strain after
media reports said Berlusconi intervened to free an underage
girl from police custody. The 74-year-old leader admitted
helping the girl, who had attended a party at one of his private
residences near Milan. Opposition leaders called for Berlusconi
to step down and a parliamentary committee on security has
requested he appear to discuss security issues.  Fini, now head of the Future and Freedom party, which is a
coalition partner, was responding to a call by Berlusconi in a
televised speech on Nov. 4 for him to openly declare his support
for the government or risk early elections. Fini and his allies
backed Berlusconi in a confidence vote a month ago that aimed to
end a rift on justice and aid to southern Italy.  Staying Put  Berlusconi doesn’t intend to tender his resignation, the
Ansa news agency reported, citing unnamed members of his People
of Freedom party. Today, Fini said his party’s junior government
members, including Deputy Industry Minister  Adolfo Urso , will
step down should Berlusconi decline to resign.  “The necessary resignation would be from Fini,” Daniele
Capezzone, the chief spokesman for the People of Freedom party
was cited by Asca, another news agency, as saying.  Fini said last week that Berlusconi should resign if the
reports about Berlusconi’s private life are proven true.  “When you are a public figure, you need to set the
example,” Fini, 58, said today.  Berlusconi has said the country can’t afford the political
instability caused by an election campaign at a time when
investors are shunning bonds of Europe’s so called peripheral
countries. The yield premium investors demand to hold Italian
10-year bonds over similar maturity German bonds reached a five-
week high of 164.4 basis points on Nov. 5.  Election Risk  Early elections would also be a risk for Fini as his new
party lags behind Berlusconi in opinion polls.  Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party remains the country’s
most popular and would win 29.5 percent of the vote, according
to an Ipsos Srl poll published Nov. 3 in Il Sole 24 Ore and
conducted before the story of the girl’s release hit newspapers.  His coalition partner, the Northern League, would gain more
than 11 percent, the poll found. That compared with 24 percent
for the largest opposition bloc, the Democratic Party. Fini’s
party had support of 5.1 percent, the poll said.  “Berlusconi shouldn’t resign,” Italian Transport Minister
 Altero Matteoli  said in a  statement  to the Ansa agency. “We’ll
see if we have a majority in parliament. There’s no other
government than the one led by Berlusconi.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Marco Bertacche  at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  