-- Berlusconi's Government Hobbled as Ally Fini Calls on Premier to Step Down
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2010-11-08T08:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/berlusconi-s-government-teeters-after-key-ally-calls-for-premier-to-resign.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government risked unraveling after the co-founder
of his ruling party called on the premier to resign and
threatened to pull his ministers out of the administration.  Gianfranco Fini , who is also speaker of the Chamber of
Deputies, called for “a new political agenda,” saying in a
speech near Perugia, Italy, yesterday that Berlusconi’s
administration was “adrift.” Fini also called for the
country’s election law to be revamped before any new vote was
held, a position opposed by Berlusconi.  The yield premium investors demand to hold Italian 10-year
bonds over similar maturity German bonds rose 4 basis points to
159 basis points. The Italian spread widened more than that of
the other so-called peripheral countries Spain, Greece, Ireland
and Portugal.  “This escalation in political tensions comes at an awkward
time given the recent rise in market concerns for other high-
debt countries,” said  Marco Annunziata , chief economist at
UniCredit Group in London. “A full-fledged political crisis
would inevitably result in some widening of spreads on Italian
debt.”  Split With Berlusconi  Fini initially broke from Berlusconi’s People of Liberty
bloc in July, criticizing the premier for not permitting debate
within the party and passing laws aimed at giving him immunity
from corruption prosecutions. A truce reached five weeks ago
when Fini and his forces backed Berlusconi in a confidence vote
on his program, unraveled after media reports that Berlusconi
intervened to free an underage girl from police custody.  Fini “has finally come out into the open from his
guerrilla warfare and has declared an open war,”  James Walston ,
who teaches politics at American University in Rome, said in an
e-mailed comment. “He succeeded once again in passing on the
responsibility for early elections and potential chaos to
Berlusconi.”  Berlusconi, 74, didn’t publicly respond to  Fini’s speech .
Ansa news agency reported that he told close allies he doesn’t
intend to resign and if Fini wants the premier to go, he must
vote against him in parliament and assume the responsibility for
toppling the government.  ‘Not Decisive’  “What’s happened today is important, but not decisive,”
Defense Minister  Ignazio La Russa  said after Fini’s speech.
“The final outcome will be decided in the parliament.”  Fini, who has enough backers in the  legislature  to deny
Berlusconi a majority and bring down the government, did leave
the door open for maintaining his support for the premier. He
called on Berlusconi to negotiate a new, broader program for the
rest of his term that ends in 2013 and to overhaul the country’s
“shameful” election law. Italy’s election rules make it
difficult for a party or coalition to win a majority in
parliament, fueling political instability.  Fini threatened to pull his party members, including Deputy
Industry Minister  Adolfo Urso , out of the government as a first
step should Berlusconi refuse to resign.  Under Italy’s constitution, Berlusconi’s resignation or the
fall of his government wouldn’t necessarily lead to early
elections. President  Giorgio Napolitano  would first consult with
all the major parties to see if a new government could be formed
either by Berlusconi or a combination of other political forces.
Generally, such governments are temporary and given a mandate to
carry out certain reforms before going to the polls.  Napolitano 
has said that he wants to see the election law revamped before
national elections.  ‘Rubygate’  Calls for Berlusconi’s resignation have been growing since
“Rubygate,” as the scandal over the underage girl has been
dubbed. The woman, who dances in nightclubs under the name
“Ruby Heartstealer,” had attended a party at Berlusconi’s
residence near Milan, and said in a magazine interview that she
had been given gifts and cash by the premier. She was later
arrested in Milan on an unrelated theft charge. Berlusconi
admits helping the girl, saying that he simply sent a friend to
take custody of her upon her release.  “When you are a public figure, you need to set the
example,” said Fini, 58, who also founded the post-fascist
National Alliance party.  Early elections would be a risk for Fini as his new party
lags behind Berlusconi in opinion polls. Berlusconi’s People of
Liberty party remains the country’s most popular and would win
29.5 percent of the vote, according to an Ipsos Srl poll
published Nov. 3 in Il Sole 24 Ore and conducted before the
story of the girl’s release hit newspapers.  Poll Results  His coalition partner, the Northern League, would gain more
than 11 percent, the poll found. That compared with 24 percent
for the Democratic Party and 5.1 percent for Fini’s new party,
according to the poll. Still, 45 percent of people questioned in
a separate survey for state-owned RAI television last week said
the premier should resign.  A new government, even with Berlusconi at the helm, would
make it more difficult for him to obtain immunity from pending
corruption trials or new charges, Walston said.  “Whatever he does, Berlusconi is a lame duck,” Walston
said. “He has little or no control over special legislation to
help him out of the criminal charges that he is facing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Marco Bertacche  at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  