-- Boehringer Drug Lowers Bleeding Risk in Those Who Had Stroke
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2010-11-07T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/boehringer-drug-lowers-bleeding-risk-in-those-who-had-stroke.html
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH ’s Pradaxa
blood thinner lowered the risk of major bleeding in patients
taking the drug to prevent another stroke or stroke-like attack,
according to a new analysis of a study.  People taking Pradaxa had a lower rate of life-threatening
bleeding, a feared side effect of anti-clot medicines, than
those taking the older treatment warfarin, according to the
 analysis  published today in The Lancet Neurology journal. The
researchers also found that Pradaxa, known as dabigatran, was as
effective as warfarin in preventing stroke, though the results
weren’t statistically significant.  People who have had a stroke or a temporary disturbance of
blood flow to the brain known as a transient ischemic attack
have more than double the risk of having another attack, said
Deirdre Lane and Gregory Yip of the University of Birmingham
Centre for Cardiovascular Sciences in England. Doctors need
evidence to help them balance the risk of stroke and the risk of
internal bleeding, they said.  “Physicians can face difficult decisions when choosing
which dose of dabigatran to prescribe for patients and these
analyses offer some evidence to guide these decisions,” Lane
and Yip wrote in a comment accompanying the study.  Researchers analyzed results from 3,623 patients who had
had a stroke or transient ischemic attack. The group was part of
a study dubbed RE-LY that examined 18,113 patients with an
erratic heartbeat that can increase the risk of stroke. The
analysis of the smaller patient group found those taking the
lower of two doses of Pradaxa had a significantly lower rate of
death from any cause.  Boehringer, based in Ingelheim, Germany, funded the study.
The company is the world’s largest family-owned drugmaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Hallam  in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  