-- Clinton Says Australia, U.S. Must Boost Their Leadership in Pacific Region
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-11-07T02:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/clinton-says-australia-u-s-must-boost-their-leadership-in-pacific-region.html
Australia and the U.S. must make it a
core goal to increase their leadership in the Pacific region,
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said today.  Clinton also said the two allies are working to persuade
Fiji’s military government to take steps that would allow the
return of political freedom, and eventually democracy.  The secretary was speaking at the University of Melbourne,
one stop in a two-day visit to Australia where she is meeting
with Australian leaders to discuss issues from climate change to
security and counter-terrorism.  “Stepping up our leadership in the Pacific more generally
must be one of the core goals of this alliance going forward,”
Clinton said. “Both our nations have a long history of
engagement and cooperation with the people of the Pacific
Islands, but there is more to do.”  Clinton is on a two-week tour of the Asia-Pacific to
reaffirm U.S. engagement, bolster alliances and assert its
leadership. The trip, her sixth to the region since taking
office, included stops in Vietnam, Malaysia, Cambodia, China,
New Zealand and energy-rich Papua New Guinea.  Yesterday, Australian Foreign Minister  Kevin Rudd  and
Clinton issued the Melbourne Statement, an affirmation of the
alliance and its shared commitment to democracy, “an
international, rules-based order,” and the strengthening of
regional institutions.  Climate Change  Today, Clinton outlined priorities for U.S. and Australia
cooperation. These include climate change and more intense
involvement in the Pacific on issues including HIV/Aids
prevention and violence against women.  Clinton has stressed throughout her trip that better
treatment of, and opportunities for, women improve a nation’s
economic and social prospects.  Other major goals include increasing trade. “We see 2011
as a pivotal year” for meeting President  Barack Obama ’s goal of
doubling exports, Clinton said.  To that end, the U.S. is pressing ahead with negotiations
for the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a multilateral free-trade
agreement that brings together Pacific Rim nations.  Clinton also said that the U.S. and Australia are working
closely together through the  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation 
forum to promote economic growth across the region. Regional
organizations like APEC can be used to settle disputes, she said.  “The U.S. and Australia have been at the forefront of
figuring out how to organize the entire region for the future,”
Clinton said. “It’s not enough for us to have a strong
bilateral relationship. How do we interact with everyone else?”  Australia and the U.S. “think being part of the emerging
regional architecture is absolutely essential,” Clinton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Melbourne at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  