-- Clinton Says Australia, U.S. Must Boost Their Leadership in Pacific Region
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-11-07T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/clinton-leads-u-s-australia-talks-on-policy-goals-closer-military-ties.html
The U.S. and Australia begin talks
today on further aligning foreign policy goals and deepening
defense ties, including possibly increasing U.S. use of
Australian military bases.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Australian Foreign
Minister  Kevin Rudd  lead the talks that will focus on
Afghanistan and Pakistan, the peaceful uses of space,
counterterrorism and cyber security. The so-called AUSMIN forum
brings the foreign and defense ministers from the countries
together for annual discussions.  The leaders from the two nations are “going to look for
new opportunities” to work together, Clinton said yesterday
before today’s talks begin in Melbourne.  This year marks AUSMIN’s 25th anniversary and the 70th year
of formal relations between Australia and the U.S. Those
milestones come as Australia and other Asia-Pacific nations are
adjusting to China’s rising power and President  Barack Obama  and
Clinton work to reassert U.S. leadership in the region.  Australia and the U.S. are aligned through the ANZUS Treaty
signed in 1951 between the two countries and New Zealand.
Australia has 1,550 soldiers in Afghanistan after withdrawing
its troops from Iraq in 2009. The U.S. and Australia also
collaborate on intelligence-gathering and combating sea piracy.  Australians will use the discussions to shore up their
alliance with the U.S. and through it, their security, said
Walter Lohman, director of the Asian Studies Center at the
 Heritage Foundation , a Washington-based policy group.  “There’s a big debate going on in Australia about how they
look out for their own interests in light of the changing
dynamic in the region with China rising,” Lohman said in a
telephone interview. “There’s some anxiety about what exactly
the world is going to look like in 30 years.”  Military Ties  Rudd said Nov. 6 that his country would be happy to deepen
military cooperation with the U.S.  Australia would “welcome the United States making greater
use of our ports and our training facilities, our test-firing
ranges,” Rudd said at an appearance with Clinton soon after her
arrival in Melbourne. “That has been the case in decades past
and will be the case for decades in the future.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  told local media yesterday
that closer military cooperation serves Australian interests.  “It does give the possibility, of course, for further
joint exercises, further collaboration,” Gillard said on Nine
Network television.  After U.S. Secretary of Defense  Robert Gates , Clinton, Rudd
and Australian Defense Minister  Stephen Smith  meet for the
AUSMIN talks, they are expected to issue a communiqué outlining
areas of agreement.  Clinton is taking part at the end of a two-week tour of the
Asia-Pacific to reaffirm U.S. engagement there. The trip,
Clinton’s sixth to the region since taking office, included
stops in Vietnam, Malaysia, Cambodia, China, New Zealand and
energy-rich Papua New Guinea.  Obama is currently visiting India, the first stop on a
four-country, 10-day tour in Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Melbourne at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin in Tokyo at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  