-- Default Swaps Tumbling as Subbarao Tackles Housing Bubble: India Credit
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-11-07T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/default-swaps-tumbling-as-subbarao-tackles-housing-bubble-india-credit.html
India’s decision to tighten limits on
home loans is boosting confidence that regulators are addressing
asset bubbles, cutting the cost to protect bank debt from
default and supporting a rally in government bonds.  Credit-default swaps tied to the debt of ICICI Bank Ltd.,
the nation’s second-biggest lender, fell 10 basis points last
week to 189, the lowest since Oct. 15, CMA data show. The yield
on 10-year government bonds slid 13 basis points to 7.99
percent, the biggest decline since May, after the Reserve Bank
of India required lenders to set aside more capital against
housing loans.  “The central bank will take pre-emptive action on sectors
that have potential to fuel speculation and eventually
inflation,” said  Rajeev Radhakrishnan , who manages the
equivalent of $9.2 billion of debt and equities in Mumbai at SBI
Funds Management Pvt., a unit of the nation’s biggest bank.
“Such actions will impart more safety to conventional assets
like fixed-income securities.”  Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said in a Nov. 3
interview that six interest-rate increases this year have slowed
 inflation  and that he favors policy “supportive of growth,”
while ensuring housing prices aren’t pushed up by speculators.
The RBI seeks targeted controls on investment in overheated
areas, such as property and stocks, instead of slowing the whole
economy by raising borrowing costs, according to SMC Global
Securities Ltd. and Mirae Asset India Investment Co.  Bonds Rally  The cost of fixing rupee borrowing costs for 12 months in
the interest-rate swap market fell 6.5 basis points last week to
6.635 percent as investors pared expectations for rate
increases. The yield on the benchmark 7.8 percent government
note touched a one-month low of 7.92 percent. The market was
closed on Nov. 5 for the Diwali public holiday.  Indian government bonds returned 4.3 percent this year, the
third-worst performance among 10 local-currency debt markets
outside Japan, according to indexes compiled by London-based
HSBC Holdings Plc. The debt underperformed a 24 percent gain in
Indonesian debt as rate increases caused bond prices to slump in
the past six months.  The Reserve Bank lifted the repurchase  rate  by 0.25
percentage point to 6.25 percent on Nov. 2 to further curb
wholesale price inflation, which cooled to 8.62 percent in
September from 11 percent in April.  Investment Surge  The RBI’s stance on inflation helped the rupee gain 0.3
percent to 44.2 per dollar on Nov. 4, bringing its appreciation
this year to 5.2 percent. Overseas investors bought a total of
$35.5 billion of Indian equities and bonds this year, compared
with $18.4 billion in the whole of 2009, according to data on
the website of the Securities and Exchange Board of India.  “Though Indian asset prices aren’t close to being a
bubble, sector-specific actions will prevent a build-up,” said
 Killol Pandya , who manages the equivalent of $135 million in
debt at Shinsei Asset Management Pvt. in Mumbai. “That will
bring investors to the debt securities market in the short to
medium term.”  The cost to protect against a default by State Bank of
India, a state-owned lender that is the nearest measure for
sovereign debt, declined five points to 159 on Nov. 4, the
lowest since April 27, according to New York-based CMA.  ‘Defuse Pressure’  The swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The RBI strategy aims “to defuse pressure emerging in
certain sectors and not the larger economic and market growth,”
said  Gopal Agrawal , head of equities at in Mumbai at Mirae
Asset, an arm of South Korea’s biggest seller of mutual funds
that has $2.5 billion invested in India.  The regulator asked commercial banks on Nov. 2 to increase
provisions for home loans of 7.5 million rupees ($170,000) and
above, as well as for “teaser” home loans, when banks offer
low borrowing costs in the initial year or two. Bank lending for
home purchases was 3.17 trillion rupees between April 1 and
Sept. 24, up 3 percent from the year-earlier period.  The RBI measures “are a step in the right direction to
mitigate emerging risks in banks’ housing loan portfolios,”
 Crisil Ltd. , the Indian unit of Standard & Poor’s, said in a
Nov. 3 statement. “The measures would ensure that credit
quality in this segment remains robust.”  Stocks, Gold  The Reserve Bank, in its Nov. 2 statement, flagged concerns
that prices of stocks, property and gold have risen too fast.
While household income and corporate earnings have climbed, “a
sharp rise in asset prices in such a short time causes
concern,” the central bank said.  The benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index 
reached a record last week, advancing 20 percent this year. Coal
India Ltd., the world’s biggest producer of the fuel, surged 40
percent on its debut on Nov. 4, raising concern a stock bubble
may be forming. Gold futures for December delivery surged 3.3
percent, the most since March 2009, on Nov. 4 on Comex in New
York. The value of residential property in Gurgaon, outside New
Delhi, has climbed 51 percent since June 2009.  Bombay Bullion Association President  Prithviraj Kothari ,
speaking in an Nov. 4 interview, ruled out any intervention by
regulators to cool demand for gold.  The government in Oct. 2007 clamped down on foreign funds
investing in Indian  stocks  as the Sensex climbed towards its
previous record. Offshore funds were asked to register in India
and investors buying shares anonymously, using derivatives known
as participatory notes, were given 18 months to switch to
investing directly.  “The central bank can check bank lending for stocks as
markets are at a high,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief
strategist at SMC Global in New Delhi. “They can increase risk
weights as they have done on home loans or simply ask banks to
limit lending to the stock markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 Aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  