-- Dubai Third-Quarter House Prices Fall 6% on Reduced Lending, Colliers Says
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2010-11-07T13:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/dubai-third-quarter-house-prices-fall-6-on-reduced-lending-colliers-says.html
Dubai home prices declined 6 percent
in the third quarter while the United Arab Emirates’ biggest
construction firm, Arabtec Holding PJSC, reported 96 percent
drop in profit and Deyaar Development PJSC suffered a loss.  The Dubai  House Price Index  dropped 6 percent in the third
quarter compared with the previous one, reaching its lowest
level since the second quarter of 2009 on a summer slowdown and
as banks continued to restrict lending, Colliers International,
a brokerage, property and asset management company said today.  The deepest global financial crisis since the 1930s led
Dubai property prices to drop by more than 50 percent from the
2008 peak and forced builders to cancel half of their projects
in the emirate. Property prices in Dubai will continue to drop
due to an oversupply of housing units and offices over the next
20 months, said  Mohamed Alabbar , chairman of  Emaar Properties
PJSC , the U.A.E.’s largest developer.  Deyaar, a property developer partly owned by Dubai Islamic
Bank PJSC,  tumbled  7.8 percent today after reporting a third-
quarter loss of 145 million dirhams. Arabtec dropped the most
since May 25 after it reported a profit plunge.  “After a period of stable prices we are beginning to
witness a shallow but lengthening slide in overall average
prices,” said  Ian Albert , regional director at Colliers. Prices
had been hovering around the same values since the third quarter
of 2009, he said in the report.  The average price per square foot of residential real
estate fell to 951 dirhams ($258.90) in the third quarter from
1,015 dirhams in the second quarter. The number of transactions
also declined 4 percent, according to the report.  Townhouses suffered the biggest price decline, falling 8
percent in the third quarter, Colliers said. Apartment prices
slid 7 percent, while those of villas dropped by 5 percent.  Colliers estimate that 33,000 new housing units will be
added to Dubai’s market by the end of this year, down from an
earlier estimate of 41,000 units.  “We are witnessing a slow but protracted decline in asset
values,” Albert wrote. “This reflects the reality on the
ground as occupancy rates fall to 80 percent and the market is
unable to absorb the additional supply without a growth in the
population or a slowdown in the release of stock.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 