-- Dubai Financial Market Reports Third-Quarter Loss on Nasdaq Dubai Merger
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-11-07T14:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/dubai-financial-market-reports-third-quarter-loss-on-nasdaq-dubai-merger.html
Dubai Financial Market PJSC , the only
Gulf Arab stock market to sell shares to the public, reported a
third-quarter loss after combining with Nasdaq Dubai and said it
was looking at ways to diversify revenue streams.  The loss was 2.95 million dirhams ($803,000), it said in an
e-mailed statement today. The exchange reported a profit of 71.5
million dirhams a year ago, according to Bloomberg data.
Excluding the  Nasdaq Dubai  operations, the company had a profit
of 3.8 million dirhams, the statement said.  The value of shares traded on the DFM fell 54 percent in
the first nine months of the year from a year ago although "we
continue to believe that this as a passing circumstance," Chief
Executive Officer Essa Kazim said in the statement. Investor
sentiment is improving gradually, helped by the inclusion of
United Arab Emirates’ markets in the FTSE Global Index, he said.  The FTSE Group became the first to categorize the country
as an emerging market in September, helping attract part of the
$3 trillion of funds that track the global index compiler’s
benchmarks. Shares of 21 companies including  Emaar Properties 
PJSC, the U.A.E.’s biggest developer, were added to the FTSE’s
Global Equity Index.  DFM has "nearly accomplished" the consolidation with Nasdaq
Dubai, according to the statement. There had been "considerable
improvement in market activity" since trading of listed shares
on Nasdaq Dubai was routed through DFM, it said.  The Dubai bourse offered $121 million in December to buy
Nasdaq Dubai to help boost liquidity on the market. The exchange
has started diversifying revenue and profit streams and limit
dependency on trading commissions, it said.  DFM shares  declined 3.5 percent to 1.64 dirhams at the 2
p.m. close in Dubai today. The stock has lost 13 percent this
year, valuing the company at 13.1 billion dirhams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  