-- Edible Oil Prices to Jump on Demand as Weather Hurt Yields, Mistry Says
-- B y   C l a i r e   L e o w
-- 2010-11-07T03:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/edible-oil-prices-to-increase-on-demand-supply-constraints-mistry-says.html
Edible-oil prices may climb as growth
in worldwide supply fails to keep pace with the rise in demand
for a third year, with weather patterns hurting crops, according
to Godrej International Ltd. Director  Dorab Mistry .  Palm oil may gain to 3,300 ringgit ($1,072) per metric ton
in the next few weeks and extend gains in 2011, according to
remarks Mistry prepared for delivery at the DCE oilseed
conference in Guangzhou, China today. The contract ended Nov. 4
at 3,191 ringgit. Soybean oil in Argentina, the largest
exporter, may climb to $1,250 a ton by January, according to the
remarks, raising Mistry’s forecast from $1,050.  Higher prices may add to costlier food, fanning inflation.
 World food prices  climbed to the highest level in more than two
years in October on more expensive meat, cereals, cooking oils
and sugar, the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization
said. Mistry correctly predicted in March that palm oil would
exceed 3,000 ringgit after June on lower yields.  “We have looming supply problems in wheat, in rice, in
corn, in canola, in sun seed and, above all, in soybeans,” the
text said. “We must therefore begin to give up too many
thoughts of any meaningful decline in vegetable-oil prices
during 2011.”  Palm oil on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange has rallied
for 10 weeks, gaining about 26 percent on concern recent excess
rains may disrupt harvests in Malaysia and Indonesia. Prices are
at the highest since July 2008.  Tightening Supplies  Mistry, whose speech was read by a representative at the
conference, has been in the industry for more than 30 years.
Godrej is one of India’s biggest buyers of cooking oils.  Tightening supplies and “inelastic demand” from countries
including China will extend the “crazy” price rallies this
year, Tao Chen, chairman of Louis Dreyfus Commodities (Beijing)
Trading Co. said at the conference.  Supplies of soybean, palm, coconut, groundnut, cotton,
rapeseed and sunflower oils will rise 3.5 million tons in the
year to September 2011, according to Mistry’s remarks. That’s
less than the 3.8 million-ton gain he forecast on Sept. 26.
Demand in the same period would rise as much as 5 million tons,
according to the text.  An El Nino-induced drought hurt oil-palm yields in
Indonesia and Malaysia, the largest producers, this year, while
a La Nina-induced drought delayed planting of the South American
soybean crop and hurt yields. Palm oil and soybean oil are the
most consumed edible oils and are direct substitutes.  South American Season  “The world situation in soybeans is tighter with each
day,” the text of the prepared remarks said. “We are in the
midst of the South American growing season and we have yet to
see the full effects of this year’s La Nina.”  Soybean farmers in Brazil’s Mato Grosso state, accounting
for about 30 percent of the nation’s crop, finished planting
about 31 percent of the planned area as of Oct. 28, the Mato
Grosso Institute of Agricultural Economics said. This time last
year, growers had completed 51 percent, it said.  In Argentina, soybean yields are forecast to be lower than
average because of dry weather, the Buenos Aires Cereals
Exchange said Oct. 28.  Spot prices for  degummed soybean oil  in Argentina closed at
$1,136.47 a ton on Nov. 4, the highest price since August 2008.  “Weather disturbances in the form of drought, wet springs,
flooding and frosts have been more evident this year than any
other year I can recall,” Mistry’s text said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claire Leow  in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  