-- European Bond Tensions Underscored by Periphery Growth Divide: Euro Credit
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-11-08T12:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/european-bond-tensions-underscored-by-periphery-growth-divide-euro-credit.html
The austerity measures adopted to
combat the euro region’s sovereign debt crisis are choking
growth in countries such as Greece and Spain, 18 months after
Germany emerged from recession, reports this week will show.  Gross domestic product figures from Germany, Greece and
Portugal may highlight Europe’s two-speed economy, driving up
borrowing costs for so-called peripheral nations. The  extra 
yield investors demand to hold Irish debt rather than German
bunds surged to a record today, while Portugal’s spread is near
a euro-era high.  The divergence poses a challenge for European Central Bank
policy makers, whose desire to remove stimulus measures is
complicated by the Federal Reserve’s decision to expand its
bond-buying program to underpin the economy. Peripheral euro
countries risk stricter central bank policies boosting the
single currency’s value, undermining recoveries that are already
sapped by deficit-cutting efforts.  “There are tough times ahead and monetary policy could
have helped cushion that, but it’s not in a place to do so
because it has to be right for the whole area,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN Amro Bank in Amsterdam.
“The periphery would be happy to have the Fed as their central
bank at the moment.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled on Nov. 4 the
bank intends to stick to its exit strategy even after the Fed’s
decision to buy another $600 billion of Treasuries to bolster
the U.S. economy. Trichet’s comments sent the euro to a 10-month
high, further complicating growth in the peripheral countries
that are counting on exports to drive growth.  German Manufacturing  Spain’s central bank estimated on Nov. 5 the economy
stagnated from July to September after emerging from recession
in the first quarter, nine months after Germany. Purchasing
managers’ surveys last week showed German manufacturing gained
the most in two months in October, while the same gauge in
Greece showed a deeper contraction than the previous month.  German GDP may have expanded 0.8 percent in the third
quarter, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Greek GDP probably contracted and Portuguese growth may have
slowed in the quarter, according to  Giada Giani , an economist at
Citigroup Global Markets Ltd in London. Greece, Germany and
Portugal all release their GDP reports on Nov. 12.  Bond Losses  Greek bonds, the worst performers in Europe, have lost 18
percent this year, followed by a 9.9 percent decline in Irish
debt and 7.9 percent for Portuguese bonds, according to the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
bonds gained 0.4 percent, as the euro region’s fourth-largest
economy moved more quickly to slash its deficit than Ireland,
Portugal or Greece. German bonds have increased 8.6 percent.  Ireland announced on Nov. 4 an additional 6 billion euros
in budget cuts, equal to 3.6 percent of GDP, to try to win back
investor confidence. Portugal’s 2011 budget plan includes a 5
percent cut to the public-wage bill and an increase in value-
added tax. The Bank of Spain cited austerity measures as one
reason why growth in Spain, where the government also cut wages
and raised VAT, stagnated in the third quarter. Greece’s
government revenue rose just 3.6 percent in the first nine
months of the year, compared with a target of 8.7 percent in the
country’s deficit-reduction plan.  “It’s a worrying trend; smaller countries in the euro
region are enduring the very tough fiscal retrenchment, and the
weakening of their economies is not going to help because they
will need revenues to meet the fiscal targets,” said  Vincent Chaigneau , head of rate strategy at Societe Generale in London.  Swelling Deficits  The peripherals are trying to convince investors they are
serious about bringing down record deficits that would help rein
in borrowings costs. Ireland’s shortfall was 14.4 percent of GDP
last year, Spain had a gap of 11.1 percent, while Portugal’s
deficit reached 9.3 percent. The EU will release a revision of
Greece’s 13.6 percent deficit on Nov. 15.  Borrowing costs  of the peripheral countries also surged
last week as German politicians stepped up calls for investors
to contribute to the cost of any future debt restructurings.
Germany is pushing for the burden sharing as a condition to
support EU plans to make permanent a bailout mechanism set up in
June as a financial backstop for EU members after the fallout
from Greece’s near default in May roiled European bond markets.  The spread on Irish debt rose to a record 534 basis points
today, while the extra yield on Portuguese bonds surged to 417
basis points, 10 basis points shy of its euro-era closing
record.  Spanish debt  also approached its record of 221 basis
points set in June at the height of the sovereign debt crisis.  Bond Sale  That will make it more expensive for Portugal to sell on
Nov. 10 some 1.3 billion euros of bonds due 2016 and 2020. The
2016 securities were last sold Aug. 25 at an average yield of
4.371 percent. They now yield 5.855 percent in the secondary
market.  As Germany booms, unions are starting to ask for raises for
their workers, increasing the risk that the ECB will  tighten
policy  before the peripheral countries’ economies are ready.
Germany’s IG Metall won a 3.6 percent immediate wage increase
for 85,000 steel workers, the union said on Sept. 30. The DBB
union will demand a pay increase of at least 7 percent in the
2011 round of wage talks for public servants, Neue Osnabruecker
Zeitung reported on Oct. 26.  “Wage rounds are coming up,” said  Nick Firoozye , head of
interest rate strategy at Nomura International Plc in London.
“There are going to be wage pressures in Germany and the ECB
always gets hawkish around German wage rounds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net . 