-- Ferrari May Expand Theme Parks Venture as Abu Dhabi Site Opens to Public
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i
-- 2010-11-07T14:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/ferrari-may-expand-theme-parks-venture-as-abu-dhabi-site-opens-to-public.html
Ferrari SpA  may expand an amusement
parks venture after opening the first collection of roller
coasters, rides, shops, restaurants and interactive games
branded with the Italian supercarmaker’s prancing horse badge.  The Modena, Italy-based carmaker and its partner, Abu Dhabi
developer  Aldar Properties PJSC , opened  Ferrari World , the
world’s largest covered theme park, on Nov. 4 in the Persian
Gulf emirate. Abu Dhabi is seeking to develop itself as a
tourist destination and Ferrari aims to spread its brand to more
fans globally, said Michele Pignatti Morano, head of new
business for Ferrari.  “We started with a white piece of paper developing this
project,” Pignatti Morano said in an interview at an Oct. 27
media preview of the park. “It is a dream come true for us as
Ferrari. This is our first one, we may have plans for more.”  The number of visitors to the amusement park on Yas Island
in the Gulf sheikhdom during its first weekend wasn’t yet
available, according to a spokeswoman. The park boasts what it
says is the world’s fastest roller coaster, the Formula Rossa,
in which visitors reach speeds of 150 miles (241 kilometers) an
hour in a stretched car resembling Ferrari’s Formula One racers.  Abu Dhabi, the capital of the United Arab Emirates, is set
to host its second Formula One race next weekend at a track
adjacent to the amusement park. Ties between the emirate and the
carmaker extend to sponsorship of the Italian F1 team by state-
run investment company Mubadala Development Co., which until
last month held a 5 percent stake in the carmaker.  Branding Exercise  Still, for Ferrari, the branding exercise isn’t about
flaunting its image to boost sales in the oil-rich region,
Pignatti Morano said. With production of models like the
California cabriolet and the mid-engine 458 Italia limited, the
amusement park aims to bring Ferrari closer to those who can’t
afford its cars, he said.  “With this experience we can get them nearer and explain
to them more of the brand,” Pignatti Morano told reporters at
the media opening. “We’re not doing this to sell more cars.”  Aldar may continue to be a partner in that effort, he said.
“If we’re looking at other countries, we will definitely look
with them,” he said of partner Aldar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Zahraa Alkhalisi in Abu Dhabi at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 