-- G-20 Spat Risk Eases as U.S. Eschews Pushing Targets
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2010-11-08T08:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/g-20-conflict-risk-eases-as-u-s-says-current-account-targets-unrealistic.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  refrained from pushing for current-account targets and
China hailed the potential effect of Federal Reserve easing at a
finance ministers’ meeting days before the Group of 20 summit.  The Fed’s move to buy $600 billion of Treasuries could
contribute “tremendously” to global growth, Vice Finance
Minister  Wang Jun  said after Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
forum finance chiefs met in Kyoto, Japan, Nov. 6. At the same
gathering, Geithner said current-account deficits or surpluses
aren’t “something that is amenable to limits or targets.”  Policy makers from Asia to South America have warned that
the Fed’s decision to pump liquidity into the U.S. will depress
the dollar and spark flows of capital to emerging markets that
threaten asset-price bubbles. China’s Vice Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai  said Nov. 5 the U.S. step may hurt global confidence,
while rejecting state-planning style targets for trade deficits.  “It looked like there was going to be quite a lot of
conflict or lack of agreement going into the G-20 but this
suggests there may be a bit more accord,” said  Mitul Kotecha ,
head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Agricole CIB
in Hong Kong. “There is some toning down of the rhetoric on the
Fed’s policy but in return, the U.S. will be looked upon to tone
down” its push to shrink trade and  investment  imbalances.  Summit Agenda  Geithner said G-20 leaders, who meet in Seoul Nov. 11-12,
are poised to approve last month’s agreement among finance
ministers to avoid long-term current account surpluses or
deficits, “assessed against indicative guidelines to be agreed.”
The G-20 includes the largest developed and emerging nations,
from the U.S. and Germany to Japan, China, India and Brazil.  While the Treasury chief said last month that 4 percent of
gross domestic product was “likely to emerge as the basic
benchmark countries look to,” he refrained from repeating that
guideline in Kyoto. He instead noted policy makers have tried to
address persistent trade and investment imbalances since the
1940s, and “it’s a process that’s going to take some time.”  China’s response to the Fed’s quantitative easing continued
today, with Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  saying it will
provide a “shock” to the global economy and increase “hot money”
flows to emerging economies. Zhu told reporters in Beijing the
U.S. hasn’t “fully realized” the possible impact of the policy,
which China hopes will help the global economy.  U.S. Responsibility  In Kyoto, Wang highlighted language in the APEC finance
chiefs’ statement that nations with reserve currencies must be
“vigilant against excess volatility disorderly movements.” The
dollar has a majority of global foreign-exchange reserves,
according to the International Monetary Fund.  “We pay close attention to the U.S. quantitative easing
policy,” Wang said two days ago. “Quantitative easing policy
that’s aimed at boosting the U.S. economy will help the revival
of the global economy tremendously.”  Wang’s comments contrasted with those of Vice Foreign
Minister Cui, who demanded an explanation from the Fed in a Nov.
5 press briefing in Beijing because “many countries are worried
about the impact of the policy on their economies.”  Officials from China, Germany and Japan opposed a set
target for current accounts in the past month even as Canada and
Australia indicated openness to the idea. Among the G-20 nations,
Saudi Arabia, Germany, Russia and China all run surpluses larger
than 4 percent, and Turkey and South Africa have deficits bigger
than that, according to the International Monetary Fund.  Geithner Objective  “We’re trying to make sure as the world economy recovers,
that future growth is sustainable and we don’t see re-emerge the
kind of excess imbalances on the trade side, either surpluses or
deficits, that could threaten future growth and the future
financial stability,” Geithner said at a joint press conference
after the Kyoto meeting.  Thai Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said in a Nov. 5
interview with Bloomberg Television that while Geithner’s push
to discuss global imbalances in trade and investment flows is a
“constructive approach,” Southeast Asian nations oppose
setting specific targets.  “We didn’t discuss a specific number,” Japan’s Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said after the APEC meeting. “However,
both surplus and deficit countries must address these imbalances.
We hold the same understanding that there is a need for multi-
faceted cooperation to ensure that current accounts are
sustainable.”  Capital Flows  Underlying the U.S. push to address the imbalances is the
assessment by the Fed that a surfeit of Asian savings helped
spark the credit boom earlier this decade, which ended in the
biggest financial crisis since the 1930s. Now, officials from
Asia to Latin America counter it’s the American central bank’s
liquidity injections that are warping global capital flows and
driving down the dollar.  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  escalated the
international rhetoric in September, saying a “currency war”
had begun, with nations seeking to cheapen their exchange rates
to bolster exports. G-20 finance ministers and central bank
governors then aimed to defuse the tensions with their Oct. 23
communique pledging to avoid “competitive devaluation.”  China has kept its currency’s advance against the dollar to
less than 3 percent since mid-June, a strategy that’s
contributed to other currencies rising and nations taking steps
to prevent an “unfair disadvantage,” Geithner said last month.  Todd Elmer , a Singapore-based currency strategist, wrote
today in a note to investors that Geithner’s “shift in rhetoric
represents a modest dollar negative since it suggests the status
quo which has resulted in trend dollar weakening is likely to
remain in place.”  ‘Strong Dollar’  Geithner told reporters in Kyoto two days ago that the U.S.
views a “strong dollar” as in its interest and “we will never
use our currency as a tool to gain competitive advantage.” The
Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to track
the dollar against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners including the euro and yen, slid last week to the
lowest level since December 2009.  Geithner’s plan was in part designed to broaden discussions
beyond China’s exchange-rate policy, blamed by U.S. lawmakers
and companies for keeping the yuan artificially low in a subsidy
for local exporters.  “The fact that the Fed is undertaking quantitative easing
has made it very difficult for U.S. officials to accuse other
countries” of manipulating their currencies “when they are
indirectly debasing the dollar,” Kotecha said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  