-- G-20 Needs More Than Luck to Avoid Lost Decade: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-11-07T22:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/g-20-needs-more-than-luck-to-shun-lost-decade-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
There’s a bit of karma involved in
the Group of 20 holding its summit in Seoul.  Thirteen years ago, South Korea was at the center of chaos
that was going global in a hurry. Investors who ignored troubles
in Thailand and Indonesia had no choice but to confront reality
once the then-11th biggest economy crashed.  South Korea had U.S. stocks reeling and the Federal Reserve
worried. Korea in the late 1990s was like Spain today, and
Thailand was like present-day Greece -- a canary in the
financial coal mine. We feared its woes would be shared by more
vital places. Today, we worry Spain, the No. 9 economy, will be
the Korea-like domino that causes a chain reaction.  The G-20, along with discussing China’s currency, will
focus on Japan. Namely, keeping the U.S. and euro zone economies
from experiencing their own lost decades.  That’s where Korean karma comes into play. Korea offers a
good road map to fighting the Japanifaction of the global
economy. Past actions put its economy on a virtuous path,
allowing it to steer around deflation and falling living
standards.  Just two years ago, South Korea was on tap to become the
next Iceland. The fear was that its companies didn’t learn the
lessons of the Asian crisis and issued too much short-term debt
in foreign currencies. To many, that meant Korea looked like a
giant hedge fund. Korea confounded the skeptics and today is
growing at 4.5 percent.  Crisis Management  Korea’s real contribution to today’s discourse is its
crisis-management steps in the late 1990s. It did everything
Japan didn’t and the U.S. is failing to do now. Weak companies
and banks were allowed to fail, often regardless of size.
Interest-rate policies never lost a long-term perspective. The
nation’s people were asked to sacrifice. Avoiding denial was a
key element of the response.  Things didn’t always go smoothly. One snafu was shifting
bubbles from the corporate sector to households, which took on
too much debt. That was later corrected. The jump in short-term
debt in the late 2000s didn’t help. The role of family
conglomerates remains too large for comfort.  In a world devoid of economic role models, though, Korea’s
handiwork is worth a look. Japan’s main failing after its 1980s
boom and bust was timidity. It restructured little and tossed
money at the economy expecting an eventual rebound. Twenty years
on, Japan has the largest public debt in the industrialized
world, a central bank no one respects and persistent deflation.  Japanese-Like Quagmire  Count  Stephen Roach , Morgan Stanley’s nonexecutive Asia
chairman, among those worried the “world economy is at risk of
falling into a Japanese-like quagmire.” We need to stop
debating whether the U.S. will suffer that fate. It already has
-- politicians in Washington just don’t know it yet.  The Fed said as much last week when it announced a second
round of quantitative easing. The risk is that lawmakers don’t
get the memo. Last week’s U.S. election divided Congress in a
way that should worry Asia.  It’s great that  China ’s economy is growing at 9.6 percent.
Yet it’s no substitute for the $14 trillion U.S. economy, and an
undervalued yuan may harm neighbors more than China’s growth
aids them. We could be looking at two years of complete gridlock,
making the U.S. policy apparatus look all too Japan-like.  On some level, the U.S. would be lucky to become Japan.
While this heretical view has made the rounds in recent years,
it’s worth exploring anew. Even today, Japanese households are
sitting on more savings than the annual output of the U.S.
economy. That’s why Japan has been able to muddle along for 20
years without unraveling.  Exit Strategies  Mass homelessness never occurred, crime rates didn’t soar
and the bond market avoided crashing amid an explosion of
government debt. It’s doubtful the U.S. would fare even slightly
as well if its savings-deprived economy walked in place for 10
years, never mind 20.  Japan has yet to find an exit strategy from zero rates and
a debt that’s double the size of its economy. The U.S.’s problem
may be that it didn’t spend enough to jumpstart things or
address the crushing household debt imperiling its outlook. This
is the root cause of America’s Japanification.  The odds are stacked against the Nov. 11-12 G-20 confab
finding a solution. All ultralow rates in the U.S. and elsewhere
accomplished is sending waves of  hot money  Asia’s way. It’s
inflating bubbles in stocks and real estate and complicating the
jobs of officials from Beijing to Jakarta.  That brings us back to the lessons from Korea. In its
darkest days it resisted the urge to slash rates to zero to
avoid the so-called bubble fix. Free money has a way of boosting
markets and offering a false sense that recovery is afoot. In
reality, it just creates new bubbles to paper over old ones.
Such actions come back to haunt you later.  What the world needs is a little good karma for a change.
If officials look close enough, they may find some in Seoul.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  