-- Geithner Says India Sets Example With Flexible Exchange Rate
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-11-07T18:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/geithner-says-india-sets-example-with-flexible-exchange-rate-dynamism-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said India is demonstrating economic “dynamism” that
comes from promoting internal growth while allowing currency
flexibility, even as he reiterated the need for “key emerging
economies” to move to market-determined exchange rates.  Fast-growing developing nations need to reduce their
dependence on exports to help the world economy strengthen,
Geithner said in a guest column in the  Hindustan Times . The
Treasury chief has called on China to boost consumption and let
the yuan rise, and today he praised India for its initiative in
adjusting to the new shape of the global economy.  “India is meeting this challenge, helping to demonstrate
the dynamism that can accompany domestic demand-led growth
combined with significant exchange-rate flexibility,” Geithner
wrote. He arrived in New Delhi yesterday to join President
 Barack Obama , after weekend meetings with finance ministers from
the  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation  countries.  Geithner has pushed the Group of 20 nations to pledge that
they will avoid competitive currency weakening and rein in trade
imbalances. The agreement, set out last month by finance
ministers in Gyeongju, South Korea, will likely be a centerpiece
of this week’s G-20 leaders summit in Seoul.  The gathering takes place as countries around the world
weigh the implications of the Federal Reserve’s Nov. 3 decision
to inject $600 billion into the U.S. economy in a bid to spur
growth. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Nov. 5
in Berlin that the Fed was “clueless” and the move wouldn’t
stoke growth, while Chinese officials said they will monitor the
Fed policy’s impact on growth and global confidence.  Targeted Support  Geithner said the U.S. needs to continue its efforts to
reinforce economic recovery and overhaul its system of financial
regulation.  “The most significant risk to the global economy today is
that the world’s largest economies underachieve on growth,”
Geithner said. “We must respond by continuing to provide well-
targeted support to strengthen growth in the near term.”  He said U.S. efforts to reduce its own imbalances are
underway and will accelerate once the economy recovers from the
recession and financial crisis.  “Households are saving more, and we will reduce our fiscal
deficit as the recovery strengthens,” Geithner said. “Going
forward, we are committed to building on our long-standing
openness to investment and trade.”  U.S.-India Ties  The relationship between the U.S. and India has “great
potential” that is strengthening year by year, he said. He
hailed Indian efforts to promote financial stability by
strengthening its banking infrastructure.  “India is making changes necessary to boost investment in
its financial sector, such as expanding access to financial
services and developing its corporate debt market.”  While in New Delhi, Geithner will meet with Indian Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , address a gathering of chief
executives, and join Obama at several events. He’ll also speak
at an event organized jointly by the Confederation of Indian
Industry and the U.S.-India Business Council on the G-20 growth
agenda, the Treasury Department said.  Later in the week, Geithner will travel to Abu Dhabi and
Singapore for meetings with government and industry officials
before rejoining Obama for the G-20 summit in Seoul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  