-- Guinea Votes in Election That Stoked Ethnic Tensions
-- B y   O u g n a   C a m a r a   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-11-07T18:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/guinea-votes-in-presidential-runoff-ballot-amid-heightened-ethnic-tensions.html
Voters in  Guinea  cast their ballots
in a runoff presidential election after a campaign that
heightened ethnic tensions in the world’s biggest bauxite-
exporting nation.  Voting was due to officially end at 6 p.m., and results
should be known by Nov. 12, according to the nation’s electoral
commission.  “All the polling stations did not close at 6 p.m.,”
Lounceny Camara, the commission’s vice president said in a
telephone interview. “Some of them opened late due to logistic
difficulties. In those polling stations, we granted at most two
hours extra to allow citizens to vote. We do not want the voters
to rebel because they did not vote”.  Former Prime Minister  Cellou Dalein Diallo , who received
43.7 percent of votes in the June 27 first round, is competing
against opposition leader  Alpha Conde , who garnered 18.2
percent. The vote will pave the way for the transition from
military to civilian rule in the West African nation.  “The most significant risk to stability could derive from
Guinea’s ethnic dynamics,” said Rolake Akinola, London-based
West Africa analyst with political-risk researcher Eurasia
Group. “Hundreds” of people have been displaced in the country
in recent days during clashes between two ethnic groups, the
Peuhl, who support 58-year-old Diallo, and the Malinke, who are
courted by Conde, Akinola said in an e-mailed note Nov. 5.  The election is being held almost two years after the army
seized power following the December 2008 death of President
 Lansana Conte . In December 2009, General  Sekouba Konate  took
control after an aide shot coup leader  Moussa Dadis Camara  in
the head. Guinea hasn’t had a democratic transfer of power since
gaining independence from France in 1958.  ‘Developing the Country’  “We are voting to chose a presidential candidate who is
capable of developing the country,” said Kadiatou Sylla, 40, as
she waited to cast her ballot in the capital, Conakry. “I’ll
vote for Alpha Conde.”  Both candidates have pledged to continue a review of mining
agreements. The review has already led to a dispute with London-
based  Rio Tinto Group  over ownership of the Simandou iron-orE
project. Other companies operating in the country include
Russia’s  United Co. Rusal , the world’s largest aluminum
producer,  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. , Africa’s biggest gold miner,
and Brazil’s  Vale SA , the No. 1 iron-ore producer. New revisions
are “unlikely to be draconian,” said Akinola.  Guinea holds as much as half of the world’s reserves of
bauxite, an ore used to make aluminum, more than 4 billion
metric tons of “high-grade” iron ore and “significant”
deposits of diamonds and gold, according to the U.S. State
Department.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.  also operates in the
country.  ‘Major Step’  Both Diallo and Conde told reporters after voting in
Conakry they were satisfied that voting had proceeded
peacefully.  “The persons charged with the organization of elections
set up everything in an ordered and disciplined way,” Yakubu
Gowon, a former Nigerian head of state and leader of the
Atlanta-based Carter Center’s observation team in the country,
told reporters. “Order and discipline prevailed in all the
polling stations visited this morning. I would like to
congratulate the electoral body.”  Guinea is one of three West African countries that have
held votes in the past week in an attempt to overcome political
turmoil and revive economic growth.  Ivory Coast went to the polls on Oct. 31 for an election
aimed at reuniting a country divided between a rebel-held north
and a government-controlled south. Young-jin Choi, the United
Nations mission chief in Ivory Coast, said the country showed
“political maturity and determination to put an end to the
crisis.”  Guinea’s leaders should “be taking note” of the praise
given to Ivory Coast, the world’s top cocoa grower, Akinola said
in a Nov. 4 phone interview. “Guinea needs that sort of
international goodwill.”  ‘Voting Freely’  Niger, the world’s sixth-biggest uranium producer, voted
90.2 percent in favor of a new constitution on Oct. 31, a step
toward the return of civilian rule after the army ousted
President  Mamadou Tandja  in February. A presidential election is
planned for Jan. 31.  “We are voting freely and we ask the authorities to
respect the results,” said Djibril Sangare, a 23-year-old
student, who cast his vote in the capital. “We hope that this
runoff will bring peace and economic development to Guinea.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ougna Camara in Conakry via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 