-- Indian Stocks to Extend Record Rally on Earnings, Franklin Templeton Says
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2010-11-07T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/indian-stocks-to-extend-record-rally-on-earnings-franklin-templeton-says.html
India’s more than 20 percent growth
in earnings and slowing inflation will spur further gains in the
nation’s equities after the  benchmark stock index  surged to a
record, according to Franklin Templeton Investments.  HDFC Bank Ltd.  and  Axis Bank Ltd.  are among the country’s
most “high quality” bank investments as loan growth reaches as
much as 25 percent a year, said  Sukumar Rajah , who oversees $4
billion as Franklin Templeton’s chief investment officer of
Asian equities. Inflation is “under control” after the Reserve
Bank of India raised its benchmark interest rates last week for
the sixth time this year, he said.  The  Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index  has jumped 20
percent since December and hit an all-time high Nov. 4, the last
full day of trading, as foreign investors bought Indian equities
at a record pace this year on speculation economic growth will
boost corporate profits. The 30-stock gauge is valued at 17.9
times analysts’ 12-month earnings estimates, the highest level
among the world’s 30 biggest markets, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The markets generally will continue to go up,” Rajah
said in a Nov. 3 interview in Warsaw. Indian stocks will move in
line with other emerging markets, he said. “We are looking at
some high-quality banks.”  HDFC, India’s third-largest bank by market value, reported
profit jumped 33 percent in its fiscal second quarter, according
to a company statement dated Oct. 19 on its  website . The shares
have rallied  40 percent  this year, and trade at 35 times
reported earnings. Axis, which is valued at 24 times profit,
posted a 38 percent jump in earnings. The fourth-biggest lender
has surged 56 percent this year. The  MSCI Emerging Markets
Financials Index , a global gauge for the industry, trades at 16
times earnings.  GDP Expansion  India’s  gross domestic product  expanded 8.8 percent in the
three months through June, the most among major economies in
Asia after China. The Reserve Bank of India probably won’t raise
 interest rates  in the next three months, Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said on Nov. 2 after increasing the  repurchase rate  by
a quarter-point to 6.25 percent. Consumer prices for industrial
workers in India rose  9.8 percent , down from a 16 percent
increase January.  “It is quite unlikely the central bank will raise rates
more,” Rajah said. “We are quite close to the peak right now
-- inflation is under control.”  IPOs  India’s expanding economy has helped companies to raise
$7.7 billion in initial public offerings for businesses ranging
from consumer manufacturing to jewelry retailers this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s almost double
the $4 billion raised in 2009 and the most in three years.  Coal India Ltd. , the world’s No. 1 producer of the fuel,
surged 40 percent to 342 rupees in its first day of trading on
Nov. 4 after selling 152 billion rupees ($3.4 billion) of shares
at the top of the price range in the country’s biggest IPO in at
least a decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
offering attracted bids worth at least $48.7 billion.  “The supply of new stocks is good for the market at the
current juncture because it’s keeping the lid on prices,” Rajah
said. “Right now the market is not overvalued but if a lot of
money keeps coming in and there is no supply it can get
overvalued.”  Even after this year’s gains, the benchmark Sensex index is
still 15 percent cheaper than in January 2008, when it traded
for 21 times earnings estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Sensex’s  price-to-book  ratio of 3.7 compares with
its earlier peak level of 6.2, the data show.  Franklin Templeton’s  Franklin India Prima Plus Fund  has
returned 24 percent as of Nov. 4 since the start of 2010
compared with the Sensex’s 20 percent gain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
 Pawel Kozlowski  at 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  