-- India’s Diabetes Epidemic Cuts Down Millions Who Escape Poverty
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2010-11-07T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/india-s-deadly-diabetes-scourge-cuts-down-millions-rising-to-middle-class.html
Kalpana Sonar, a petite 40-year-old
mother of two teenage boys, recalls with a grimace how tingling
in her hands and feet began keeping her awake nights in her
suburban  Mumbai  high-rise.  Sonar, who had moved to the four-room apartment six years
ago from the city’s Cuffe Parade slum and, before that, a mud
hut in the village of Matari, was treated for high  blood
pressure  and dizziness last October.  When her legs started aching and grew numb, her doctor gave
her grimmer news: After escaping from childhood hunger and
deprivation and joining India’s booming  middle class , Sonar was
suffering from diabetes -- a disease normally tied to a lifetime
of inactivity and overeating, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports
in its December issue.  “Diabetes, the weight gain, these things shouldn’t have
happened,” Sonar says, dressed in a pink-and-white sari that
reveals the small paunch on her 55-kilogram (121-pound) frame --
a normal weight for her 1.5-meter (5 foot) height. “Now the
illness is here, it isn’t going away.”  Sonar, a homemaker, says questions swirl through her head:
how long will she live, who will take care of the family, and
will the boys -- who enjoy soda and computer games -- wind up
with diabetes too? Sonar’s 60-year-old brother and 50- and 55-
year-old sisters also suffer from the condition.  “Your mind starts coming up with all these things,” she
says in the living room that she and her husband Prakash Sonar
furnished with a television for their sons. “If something
happened to me, what would happen to everybody?”  Diabetes Epicenter  More than 50 million Indians are struggling with the same
frightening predicament. The  International Diabetes Federation 
in October 2009 ranked India as the country with the  most
diabetics  worldwide. The umbrella group of more than 200
national associations estimates that the disease will kill about
 1 million  Indians this year, more than in any other country.  With 7.1 percent of adults afflicted, India is on a par
with developed countries such as  Australia , where 7.2 percent of
adults suffer. India now fares worse than the U.K., where 4.9
percent are diabetic. In the U.S., where more than two-thirds of
adults are  overweight  or obese, 12.3 percent have diabetes.  Doctors say a perverse twist of science makes Indians
susceptible to diabetes and complications such as  heart disease 
and stroke as soon as their living conditions improve. As a
decade of 7 percent average annual growth lifts 400 million
people into the middle class, bodies primed over generations for
poverty, malnutrition and manual labor are leaving Indians ill-
prepared for calorie-loaded food or the cars, TVs and computers
that sap physical activity.  Programmed for Diabetes  Researchers are finding the pattern begins before birth:
Underfed mothers produce small,  undernourished  babies with
metabolisms equipped for deprivation and unable to cope with
plenty. Sonar’s mother, a widow who spent her life in a village
and raised seven children by doing farm work, was active and
healthy into her 70s, Sonar says.  “Diabetes trends in this country are absolutely
frightening,” says Nikhil Tandon, a professor of endocrinology
at  New Delhi ’s  All India Institute of Medical Sciences , which
India Today magazine ranks as the nation’s top medical school.  In urban India,  Type 2 diabetes , the kind Sonar has,
affected 3 percent to 4 percent of adults when Tandon, 46,
graduated in the mid-1980s.  “Now, it’s 11 or 12 percent,” he says. “In some parts of
southern India, it’s 18 or 19 percent. Nobody predicted it. That
is huge.”  Younger Victims  About 90 percent of diabetics worldwide have the Type 2
variety, in which the hormone insulin is unable to regulate
sugar in the blood.  Type 1 , once known as insulin-dependent or
childhood-onset diabetes, is caused by the body’s failure to
produce enough insulin.  Diabetes is hitting India’s population at an average age of
42.5 years -- about a  decade earlier  than it strikes people of
European origin, says Anoop Misra, head of diabetes and
metabolic diseases at  Fortis Healthcare Ltd .’s hospitals unit in
New Delhi. That’s hobbling a population of money-earners and
parents during their primes.  Diabetes costs India the equivalent of 2.1 percent of its
annual gross domestic product, the  Economist Intelligence Unit 
found in 2007, mostly from lost earnings and productivity. Costs
in the U.S. were 1.2 percent of GDP and 0.4 percent in the U.K.
in the same year.  Big as Global Warming  Diabetes and its complications are striking just as India
has gone on a tear. The world’s second-most-populous nation has
placed behind China as the fastest-growing major economy for
most of the past decade. India is a member of the BRIC group of
rapidly emerging markets, which includes Brazil, Russia and  China . Those countries have become symbols of the shift in
economic power toward the developing world.  Now, chronic diseases are threatening that growth. In
China, where the diabetes federation estimated last year that
there would be  43.2 million  diabetics in 2010, a March study
reported the number as 92.4 million. India’s tally may skyrocket
next year, when that country reports its first national survey
in a decade.  “If you think of countries like India, where they can’t
afford to vaccinate every child, how on earth will they cope
with the epidemic of non-communicable disease?” says Mark
Hanson, 61, chairman of the  International Society for
Developmental Origins of Health and Disease . “It is at least as
big a threat as global warming. It’s going to absolutely ruin
the economy of the world in the next 20 to 30 years.”  Poverty Trap  The diabetes scourge is knocking down Indians just as they
enjoy the jobs and education that have raised millions out of
poverty. Since 1991, when Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao
opened India’s economy, inflows of foreign direct investment
have swelled to $34.6 billion last year from $75 million. Per-
capita income has more than tripled to $1,180 from $350, adult
 literacy  has improved to 66 percent of the population from 48
percent and infant mortality has declined 37 percent to 52
deaths per 1,000 live births.  Now India is adding afflictions most often seen in
developed countries.  “Non-communicable diseases are no longer diseases of the
rich, diseases of affluence,” Margaret Chan, 63, the  World
Health Organization ’s director-general, says in a phone
interview from its Geneva headquarters. “People in  Asia  are
developing diabetes in larger numbers and at a younger age than
in  Europe  and  North America , and they are dying sooner. If, in
the process of economic development, you are getting trade-offs
-- a lot of diseases -- what is the net effect?”  ‘Knock Down Generations’  Diabetics worldwide will soar to 438 million in two decades
from  285 million  today, the diabetes federation predicts. By
then, more than three-quarters will be in low-and middle-income
countries.  “If the world doesn’t wake up, this thing will knock down
generations,” says David Barker, a British doctor whose
research has helped explain the origins of so-called lifestyle
ailments and why they’re exploding in India and China.  India’s medical system is sagging under the pressure. The
country, still grappling with malaria,  polio  and  leprosy  --
diseases that have been eradicated in developed countries -- is
fighting a wave of diabetes-related ailments. Doctors are
battling  kidney failure , vision-impairing  retina damage  and foot
ulcers that require at least 200,000 amputations a year, a fifth
of the global total. Diabetes also raises heart attack and
stroke risk at an early age, as fatty deposits caused by high
blood sugar clog arteries.  ‘Health Catastrophe’  “Young people who are the drivers of the economy, who are
the protectors of their family, are going to be lost,” says
cardiologist Prathap Reddy, 77, who in 1983 founded  Apollo
Hospitals Enterprise Ltd ., India’s biggest private hospital
chain. “It is not just a health warning; it’s a major health
catastrophe that’s facing Indians.”  Diabetes, stroke and other non-communicable diseases
deprive India of more than  $23 billion  a year in income. The
$1.3 trillion economy would be  4 percent to 10 percent  greater
if those diseases were eliminated, the  World Bank  concluded in
January. Such ailments undermine efforts to increase India’s
 life expectancy  beyond 64, which is a decade below China’s.  Sonar recalls her early years as she rifles through a
shopping bag brimming with six months of recent medical records.
As a child growing up in a village near the Arabian Sea, at
least once a week she plodded for two hours along a dirt path to
collect water for her eight-member family, which existed on two
meals a day of vegetables and rice.  ‘You’re So Skinny’  Walking and meager food kept her weight below 35 kilograms
as a teenager, about the same as an American  fifth-grade girl .
Once she moved to Mumbai, where water flowed from a tap and food
was more plentiful, she began to gain weight.  “People would always say to me, ‘You’re so skinny. You can
afford to get a little fatter,’” she says.  Viswanathan Mohan , who has treated diabetes patients in the
southeastern city of Chennai for more than 30 years, has heard
such stories before. These days, he diagnoses about one teenager
a week with  Type 2 diabetes . He predicts that a quarter of
adults in urban  India  will have the disease in a decade.  “In the West, they seem to report only a few cases with
Type 2 diabetes in children,” he says. “We’re talking of
hundreds of cases here.” Two-and-a-half percent of his new
patients are under 25, Mohan, 56, says. That compares with fewer
than 0.5 percent in 1991.  Amputations  Vivekanand, a vascular surgeon in India’s technology hub of
Bangalore, sees the grim outcomes. The doctor, who goes by one
name, and his colleagues at Bhagawan Mahaveer Jain Hospital,
operate on about 80 lower limbs a month to repair veins damaged
by diabetes and smoking. Without adequate blood flow, foot
wounds can become septic.  His hospital amputates about five legs every month because
of diabetic  complications . At least three times as many patients
lose toes and part of their feet, he says.  “When infection becomes so severe that it will kill him if
I don’t cut his leg off, that’s when we do it,” Vivekanand, 41,
says. “Life is more important than a limb. But in India, a limb
is especially important because without a limb, he loses his
livelihood and becomes dependent on somebody. That robs him of
his dignity.”  The crush of diabetes is a daily routine at Mumbai’s  Sir J.
J. Hospital , 30 kilometers (19 miles) from Sonar’s apartment.
One April morning, about 100 people file through its state-run
clinic. Many wait hours on wooden benches for a free insulin
shot because they can’t afford the 400 rupee to 500 rupee ($9 to
$11) weekly cost of the hormone, says Priya Patil, who has been
a doctor at the 165-year-old hospital for 10 years.  ‘Day in, Day Out’  “Diabetes and hypertension, they are saying it’s an
epidemic in India,” Patil says. “We are seeing it day in, day
out.”  A trained doctor and third-year medical students had been
running the second-floor clinic, which is reached by a rickety
elevator with a concertina-style grille door. Now it’s managed
by second- and third-year students, Patil says.  Government hospitals such as Patil’s treat patients either
free of charge or at subsidized rates, a system that stretches
resources and forces patients who can afford it to visit private
practices.  Health Worker Shortage  India has the greatest need for health workers globally,
with an estimated  515,000 -person shortage, aid group Save the
Children said in May. Worse for the afflicted, only 5 percent of
Indians are covered by health insurance; 66 percent of total
health expenditure is paid out of pocket. This expense amounted
to almost 846 billion rupees in 2004, a sum that can discourage
treatment or impoverish those footing hospital bills.  “The health system is at the moment inadequate to deal
with the situation,” says Fortis’s Misra, 52, who was a
personal physician to Prime Minister Rao and his successor, Atal Bihari Vajpayee.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , who underwent coronary
artery bypass surgery in January 2009, says India requires
 urgent  public health measures. The government set aside 16.6
billion rupees to prevent and control diabetes, cardiovascular
disease and stroke from 2007 to 2012. It pledged to boost public
health expenditures to  3 percent of GDP  by 2012 from 0.9
percent.  Government efforts are zeroing in on maternal and child
health. Doctors are just beginning to unravel a mysterious
evolutionary sequence to understand why Sonar and millions of
middle-aged, upwardly mobile Indians are succumbing to diabetes.  ‘Bankrupt Health Systems’  “Most governments haven’t realized that this is such a
big epidemic and can bankrupt health systems,” says Paul Zimmet, a Melbourne-based doctor who brought to light diabetes
rates in Indian and Pacific Ocean populations. “Unless we
intervene at the maternal and fetal level, it’s going to be 30
years before anything turns around.”  Halfway around the world, Barker, the British physician
studying lifestyle diseases,  reported findings  two decades ago
that are helping scientists understand India’s diabetes surge.
At the  University of Southampton , 80 miles southwest of  London ,
Barker discovered that areas of Britain in which coronary heart
disease was most common had had the highest infant mortality 60
years earlier.  Studying the medical records of about 15,000 people born
from 1911 to 1940, he found those who were small as infants were
more likely to get heart disease, diabetes and stroke as adults.
The link sparked  Barker’s hypothesis  that diabetics such as
Sonar could trace their disease to how they adapted to
malnutrition in the womb.  Survival Trick  “The conventional explanation up until that time was that
poorer people have worse lifestyles and so they are kind of
bringing it all on themselves,” Barker, 72, says. “That would
be the prevailing view in the U.S. today. There isn’t evidence
for that.”  As Barker sees it, malnutrition during a baby’s development
affects how a person’s body behaves for a lifetime. An
undernourished fetus prioritizes sugar for its growing brain. To
make more glucose available in the blood, the fetus stores less
of the energy in its muscles by making the muscles resistant to
the effects of insulin.  What starts as a clever survival trick in the womb becomes
a liability in later life. When food is freely available but the
muscles can’t store excess glucose, the blood floods with sugar
and diabetes develops. Too much sugar in the blood damages the
heart, small blood vessels and nerves, compounding the risk of
 heart attack , stroke and  kidney failure .  ‘Our Lives Were Rotten’  “The biggest recipe for chronic disease is to have a very
poor start in life and then to be in a situation where you’re
rapidly transitioning towards excess nutrition and inadequate
activity,” says Caroline Fall, 56, a professor of international
pediatric epidemiology at Southampton, who joined Barker’s group
in 1990 and has studied diseases in India since 1991. “That’s
absolutely characteristic of what’s happening in India.”  Conditions for a cycle of deprivation and diabetes are ripe
in India, where people start out more malnourished than in
almost all other countries. Twenty-eight percent of Indian
newborns -- or  7.4 million  in 2008 -- weighed less than 2.5
kilograms; 43 percent of children under 5 years are underweight,
the  United Nations Children’s Fund  said in November 2009.  Sonar recalls that growing up in a single-room hut, she
would sometimes go to bed hungry. Her father, who eked out a
living as a tailor, died when she was 10, forcing her mother to
work in the fields. The family ate mostly cauliflower, okra,
spinach, lentils, rice and chapatis, bread made from whole-wheat
flour.  “Our lives were rotten,” Sonar says. “My father was
dead, and we had no money.”  Fried Papadums  She moved to Mumbai in 1991 to marry Prakash Sonar, a
wedding photographer. They lived in a 4-meter-by-5-meter (13-
foot-by-16-foot) second-story shanty on Cuffe Parade, a teeming
slum of thousands of dwellings on Mumbai’s southern tip.  Income rapidly improved when Prakash began a job
constructing party and event venues. They added ice cream,
chicken and mutton to their vegetarian diet. Kalpana Sonar
developed a taste for crispy fried papadums; pickles preserved
in oil; and gulab jamun, deep-fried dumplings in sugar syrup.  After the births of her sons, and as she ate more, she
gradually gained weight. By the time the family bought their
apartment in the Mumbai suburbs, Kalpana Sonar weighed 45
kilograms. Her body mass index was 19.5, within the WHO’s  normal
range  for a woman of her height. She got a washing machine, air
conditioning, her own toilet and a maid. Over six years, she
gained 12 kilograms.  Nerve Damage  By the time she was prescribed  Daonil  to control blood
glucose, her nerves were irrevocably damaged. Before she began
walking with two diabetic friends and shed 2 kilograms, she
weighed 57 kilograms -- still normal, according to WHO.  “Although Indian people who get diabetes are slim by
Western standards, they have got pound for pound more fat,”
Barker says. Indians have  less lean mass  as a percentage of
total weight, contributing to their diabetes risk, he says.  Chittaranjan S. Yajnik says Barker’s research resonated in
India, where diabetes patients were younger and weighed less
than those he’d seen during post-graduate training at  England ’s
 Radcliffe Infirmary  in Oxford, which closed in 2007.  “As a medical student, it was very obvious that while we
were reading Western textbooks, what we were seeing in our
patients was very different,” says Yajnik, 58, director of the
 diabetes unit  at King Edward Memorial Hospital in Pune in
western India. “We needed to study Indians.”  Chronically Hungry  Yajnik observed that Indian newborns were typically small
and thin -- like their mothers -- yet carried proportionally
more insulin-repelling fat than infants in England. More
important, he found low birth weight predicted insulin
resistance in Indian children, identifying those already on the
road to diabetes and cardiovascular disease, just as Barker had
posited.  Yajnik says India’s diabetes threat will accelerate because
malnutrition lingers even as affluence improves food, plumbing
and transportation. Asia’s third-biggest economy will have a  583
million -strong middle class by 2025, McKinsey & Co. predicted in
2007. Still, the ranks of India’s chronically hungry swelled by
75 million to reach  237.7 million  in the decade through 2007,
the UN found. China’s undernourished people dropped by 11.4
million to 130.4 million during that time.  Studies on birth weight are pointing to ways India may slow
the epidemic. Zimmet, 68, says research is forcing scientists to
change conceptions about what causes Type 2 diabetes.  ‘Fetal Origins’  “We were always beating the drum that it was sedentary
lifestyle and bad diet,” says Zimmet, who heads a WHO center
for diabetes epidemiology. “Now we are accepting the  fetal
origins  story.”  Governments aren’t inclined to promote maternal nutrition
as a key diabetes prevention strategy without more scientific
proof, and that may take decades, he says.  Fall and colleagues in Southampton are trying to speed
things up. Four years ago, they began enrolling 5,000 women in a
north Mumbai slum to test better maternal nutrition starting
months before conception. Researchers are studying what happens
when  women  eat a daily snack containing green vegetables, fruit
and milk that’s high in  folic acid  and vitamins before and
during their pregnancies. Their babies will be measured, and
their risks for disease recorded.  Less Sugar  The research won’t help Sonar’s generation. Instead, she’s
attempting -- and often failing -- to follow standard diabetes
treatments: medication, diet and exercise.  “I have been trying to eat less sugar and fatty food, but
with the festivals, it’s been hard,” says Sonar, who put on 3
kilograms after hiring a maid in July and during  Ganesh
Chaturthi , a Hindu festive period in September. She spends 500
rupees a month on pills that are mostly for diabetes and
hypertension, along with Ambulax, an anti-anxiety tablet.  Sonar, who doesn’t know how heavy she was at birth, says
her sons weighed about  2.5 kilograms , heightening their risk for
diabetes as adults. Both boys are slim. Yet they’re fond of
sugary drinks and less active than she was at their age. Akshay,
16, hurries home from tutoring to watch a TV comedy. He and
Prateesh, 17, spend three to four hours a day on computer games.  That is a long way from the subsistence existence of
Sonar’s youth.  “This is a better place,” she says. “There’s running
water in our home. It’s better for the children.”  Like millions of Indians, Sonar has risen from poverty to
attain a comfortable life as part of an economic advance that
has captured the world’s attention. Along with this progress,
though, has come a disease that normally afflicts far wealthier
populations. And it has come sooner, in larger numbers, and with
more profound consequences than anyone foresaw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in  Singapore  at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net  