-- Indonesia Raises Most Funds Since 1998, Draws Foreign Lawyers
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-11-07T22:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/indonesia-raises-most-funds-since-1998-draws-foreign-lawyers.html
Mark Nelson , a deal lawyer who left
Jakarta after the 1998 collapse of Indonesia’s government and
economy, now finds it hard to get back to the country to advise
companies that have raised billions from investors this year.  So many bankers and lawyers are flying to Southeast Asia’s
largest economy that “you practically need to be a Solitaire
member to get a booking,” said Nelson, a Singapore-based
partner of U.S. law firm Latham & Watkins LLP, referring to
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. ’s elite frequent flier status.  Investors, drawn by Indonesia’s consumer and resources-
driven boom, have bought $23.3 billion of debt and equity from
the country this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s close to the $25.4 billion raised for acquisitions or
other spending in 2009, the most in at least 11 years.  “We’re moving back to where we were in the mid 1990s when
Indonesia was where the action was in terms of consistent, large
deals,” said  David Dawborn , a partner of London-based Herbert
Smith LLP who has worked in Jakarta since 1992 and is assigned
to its  associate office  there.  Companies like PT Krakatau Steel, whose privatization has
been delayed since former President Suharto’s rule ended in
1998, will help boost initial share sales to $2.2 billion this
year, according to the data, a similar level to 1995 when PT
Telekomunikasi Indonesia sold shares in the nation’s biggest
IPO.  Lawyers say President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s six-year
record of fighting corruption and terrorism and spending on
infrastructure has helped restore confidence.  Exclusive Arrangements  The number of registered foreign lawyers working in
Indonesia has risen from 20 in 2005 to 50, according to the
 Indonesian bar association Peradi.  Foreign law firms, barred
from having their own offices in the country, can post their
lawyers with domestic firms, which they can form alliances with.  Allen & Overy LLP in July became the first major
international firm in 10 years to form an  exclusive association
agreement  in Indonesia. Its associate office was formed by
Daniel Ginting, who had previously been a partner at Baker &
McKenzie’s local affiliate.  “None of our peers will be able to advise on Indonesia law
by flying in and out,” said  Kenneth Aboud , managing partner of
London-based Allen & Overy’s Singapore office, who’s been
advising on Indonesian deals since 1996. About 40 international
law firms are pitching for deals in the country, he said.  Serviced from Singapore  Other firms like Sydney-based Allens Arthur Robinson have
been expanding in Singapore, a 1 1/2-hour flight away. Singapore
allows foreign law firms to open offices and the number has
 doubled to about 100  since 2005.  Indonesia-related matters are keeping at least 30 lawyers
at White & Case LLP busy at any one time, the most in Southeast
Asia, said  William Kirschner , head of Asia mergers and
acquisitions at the New York-based firm.  White & Case, Allen & Overy, Herbert Smith and Latham &
Watkins and two other firms won Singapore law licenses in 2008
and have added lawyers there to do regional work.  Yudhoyono, who hosts President  Barack Obama  this week, took
office as Indonesia’s first popularly elected president in 2004
after three terrorist attacks in the previous two years and just
months before an earthquake and tsunami left 160,000 people dead
or missing in the country.  The former army general increased anti-terror operations,
pledged more spending on bridges and roads and has lifted
Indonesia’s ranking in Transparency International’s Corruption
Perceptions Index to 110 this year from 133 in  2004 .  Ratings Upgrade  Indonesian bonds are now the best-performing in Asia and
recently cost less to insure against default than investment-
rated Italy. Fitch Ratings in January raised Indonesia’s credit
rating to BB+, the highest since the 1997-1998 Asian financial
crisis, and some analysts expect an upgrade to investment level
next year.  “There’s a renewed sense of optimism and stability now,”
said Rajeev Duggal, a Singapore-based mergers and acquisition
partner at Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP.  China Investment Corp. has earmarked $25 billion to invest
in Indonesia, the world’s biggest producer of thermal coal.
Indian billionaire Anil Ambani’s Reliance Power Ltd., which
bought two Indonesian coal companies in June, may spend $5
billion in the nation, according to Yopie Hidayat, a spokesman
for Indonesia’s Vice President Boediono.  “The Chinese and Indians are definitely making their
presence felt and looking to invest more,” said Tuti
Hadiputranto, a founding partner of Hadiputranto, Hadinoto &
Partners, Baker & McKenzie’s local affiliate. “We’ve got
natural resources -- oil, gas, coal -- that’s gold today.”  Indonesian Courts  International investors and banks still prefer to have
their Indonesian disputes decided in courts elsewhere or in
arbitration, said  Todung Mulya Lubis , an Indonesian lawyer who
helped Total SA’s unit defeat a bankruptcy petition by its
former contractors.  Indonesian judges are paid as little as 2 million rupiah
($225) a month, enhancing the temptation to accept bribes from
middlemen when they preside over cases where far more is at
stake, Lubis said.  Complaints  against Indonesia’s courts and police topped the
list of the 1,899 cases being probed as of Oct. 28 by the Legal
Mafia Eradication Task Force, formed by Yudhoyono this year.  “Indonesia will be the biggest beneficiary if it manages
to successfully clean up its court system,” said  David Zemans ,
managing partner of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP’s
Singapore office.  The benchmark  Jakarta Composite Index,  the world’s sixth
best-performer this year, has seen its market valuation in the
last decade jump about 10 times to $337 billion. That’s about a
sixth bigger than  Apple Inc.,  the Cupertino, California-based
maker of the iPad tablet computer and the world’s third-most
valuable company.  “Indonesia’s entire market capitalization was the size of
Apple’s in the mid ‘90s,” Latham’s Nelson said. “They’ve both
come a long way.”  “Even so, it keeps things in perspective to note that
Indonesia is only as big as the size of a single, hugely
successful company: Apple.”  -- With assistance from  Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore. Editors:
 Douglas Wong , Joe Schneider  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  