-- Ivory Coast Sets Election Runoff for Nov. 21 as Opposition Alleges Fraud
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2010-11-07T09:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/ivory-coast-sets-election-runoff-for-nov-21-as-opposition-alleges-fraud.html
A runoff in Ivory Coast’s
presidential election between the incumbent,  Laurent Gbagbo , and
a former prime minister,  Alassane Ouattara , will take place on
Nov. 21, the head of the country’s constitutional council said.  The announcement yesterday came amid demands by a coalition
of opposition parties in the West African country that votes
from the Oct. 31 election be recounted because of what it
alleged was evidence of fraud. The coalition said it had
detected “serious irregularities” in the election results and
claimed that its candidates had lost hundreds of thousands of
votes that went instead to Gbagbo, an opposition spokesman,
 Alphonse Djedje Mady , told reporters earlier in the day.  The president of the constitutional council,  Paul Yao N’dre , denied any irregularities that could have affected the
election’s outcome, speaking yesterday in Abidjan, the country’s
commercial capital.  The council validated results from the first round of
voting, reporting that Gbagbo led with 38.3 percent of the
ballots cast. Ouattara came in second with 32.1 percent of the
votes, while  Henri Konan Bedie , a former president, polled third
with 25 percent, the council said.  Biggest Cocoa Producer  The election was the first in a decade for Ivory Coast, the
world’s biggest cocoa producer. Economic development in the
country has suffered since a 2002 military uprising triggered
conflict and division between a rebel-held north and a
government-controlled south. The election was delayed at least
six times since 2005.  The economy depends on cocoa, the main ingredient of
chocolate, for more than a quarter of its export earnings. With
cocoa prices down about 15 percent this year, the government
wants to promote the rubber industry, power generation and oil
exploration.  Six million of Ivory Coast’s 21 million inhabitants make a
living from cocoa, according to the International Monetary Fund.
The nation ranked 163 out of 182 countries on the United Nations
Human Development Index last year, with a per-capita gross
domestic product of $1,690.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 