-- Japan to Join U.S.-Led Free-Trade Talks, Boost Domestic Farming Reforms
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2010-11-07T02:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/japan-to-join-u-s-led-free-trade-talks-boost-change-in-domestic-farming.html
Japan’s Cabinet agreed yesterday to
talks with the Trans-Pacific Partnership, edging closer to
participation in the U.S.-based free-trade group a week before
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  chairs the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation summit.  Japan will promote talks on freer trade and investment
while increasing the competitiveness of its farm sector and
addressing non-tariff barriers, a Cabinet committee decided.
Kan’s ruling Democratic Party of Japan had urged caution about
the talks and participation only to “gather information.”  “Japan will begin consultations with TPP member nations
while moving expeditiously to improve its domestic environment.
It is necessary to act by gathering further information,” reads
a document distributed to reporters. “  The government will decide regulatory reform policies by
March, and agricultural reform and standards for foreign nurses
and careworkers by June.  “I feel a sense of crisis that Japan is being left behind
while other countries form economic partnerships and free-trade
zones,” Kan told his ministers last night. “We’ll work on
sweeping farm reform and open up the country.”  U.S. officials said last year they would urge South Korea
and Japan to join its trade talks with Australia, New Zealand,
Brunei, Singapore, Chile, Vietnam, Peru and Malaysia. That would
make TPP the largest U.S. trade accord since the 1994 North
American Free Trade Agreement with Canada and Mexico.  The U.S. sold more goods to Japan and South Korea last year
than the combined current TPP members.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  