-- Japan's Bonds Decline for Second Day as Stocks Gain After U.S. Job Report
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-11-08T06:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/japan-s-bonds-may-fall-on-speculation-u-s-jobs-data-will-support-stocks.html
Japanese  bonds  fell for a second day
as domestic shares advanced after a report showed U.S. employers
added more jobs than economists predicted, reducing demand for
the refuge of government debt.  Ten-year futures declined as the  spread  between 10-year
U.S. and Japanese yields approached the narrowest level in 18
months after the Federal Reserve said last week it would buy
more debt to lower borrowing costs. Japan’s bonds also dropped
as the yen traded near a four-week low against the U.S.
currency, boosting the earnings outlook for exporters.  “The U.S. economy is recovering faster than market
participants have thought,” said  Akio Yoshino , who helps
oversee the equivalent of $36 billion as chief economist at
Amundi Japan Ltd. in Tokyo. “Expectations for the yen’s
appreciation against the dollar are peeling off, boosting stocks
and prompting investors to sell bonds.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year bond added 2.5 basis
points to 0.955 percent as of 3:12 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1
percent security due September 2020 fell 0.227 yen to 100.405.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery declined 0.25
to 142.86 at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The  Nikkei 225  Stock Average gained 1.1 percent. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.4 percent on Nov. 5. after
Labor Department data showed U.S. employers hired 151,000
workers in October, beating all estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Inflation Expectations  The yen traded at 81.24 per dollar. It depreciated to 81.99
on Oct. 27, the lowest level since Oct. 13. A weaker local
currency bolsters overseas earnings at Japanese companies.  The difference in yield between U.S. and Japanese 10-year
debt was 159 basis points. The spread shrank to 145 basis points
on Sept. 7, the least since April 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Ten-year yields are overvalued,”  Akihiko Inoue , chief
market analyst in Tokyo at Mizuho Investors Securities Co.,
wrote in a report today. “Relative to U.S. bonds and stock
prices, room for correction is big.”  The difference between yields on Japan’s five-year
inflation-linked bonds and conventional debt, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
securities, is minus 0.868 percentage points, the highest on a
closing basis since Feb. 9, according to Bloomberg data.  Deflation, or a general drop in prices, enhances the
purchasing power of the fixed payment from debt.  Recovery ‘Pausing’  Declines in bonds were tempered after the Bank of Japan
said the nation’s recovery is “pausing.” BOJ Deputy Governor
Hirohide Yamaguchi today said the central bank is ready to
increase the size of its asset-purchase fund if downside risks
become more apparent.  The BOJ will buy 150 billion yen ($1.85 billion) of
Japanese government bonds on Nov. 11, it said today. The bank
announced last month that its 5 trillion-yen fund will buy about
3.5 trillion yen in government debt and the remainder will be
used to purchase assets such as commercial paper, exchange-
traded funds and real-estate investment trusts.  “Japan’s economy still shows signs of a moderate recovery,
but the recovery seems to be pausing,” the central bank said in
the monthly assessment released today. Exports and industrial
production have been “more or less flat,” the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  