-- Netanyahu Plans Withdrawal From Northern Part of Former Syrian Village
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-11-07T10:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/netanyahu-plans-withdrawal-from-northern-part-of-former-syrian-village.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  will proceed with a plan to withdraw from the northern
part of a former Syrian village that lies on the border with
Lebanon, a government official said.  Netanyahu is expected to tell United Nations Secretary
General  Ban Ki-Moon  on Nov. 8 that the plan will be put before
senior ministers for approval after he returns from this week’s
U.S. visit, the official said. He spoke on condition of
anonymity because he was not authorized to talk to the press.  Israel captured the Golan Heights village from Syria in the
1967 Middle East War. In subsequent years, the village grew
northwards into Lebanese territory.  The expansion became an issue after Israel in 2000 pulled
its troops from a swath of territory it had been occupying in
south Lebanon, renewing the need to recognize the
internationally demarcated Israeli-Lebanon border that now runs
through the village.  A UN resolution that ended fighting between Israel and the
Shiite Muslim Hezbollah in south Lebanon in 2006 urged Israel to
withdraw its army from northern Ghajar.  Mohamad Chatah , top political adviser to Lebanese Prime
Minister  Saad Hariri , said the government would not comment on a
possible Israeli withdrawal until it actually took place.  “It’s been a number of years and it should have happened
earlier,” he said in a telephone interview.  In August, Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  said
that Israel, when deciding on the fate of Ghajar, must consider
its security as well as humanitarian issues.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  