-- Giants, Jets Win Games on Road to Improve to 6-2: NFL Week 9
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-08T05:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/new-york-jets-beat-lions-23-20-in-overtime-to-avoid-two-game-losing-skid.html
New York’s Giants and Jets are among
four teams tied for the National Football League’s best record
at 6-2 following Week 9 road victories.  The Giants opened a 35-0 halftime lead in a 41-7 rout of
the Seattle Seahawks yesterday that extended their winning
streak to five games. The Jets beat the Detroit Lions 23-20 in
overtime after erasing a 10-point deficit in the final three
minutes of the fourth quarter.  The New England Patriots, who had been an NFL-best 6-1,
lost in Cleveland 34-14 to fall into a tie with the Jets atop
the American Football Conference’s East Division. It marks the
first time since 1981 that every NFL team has at least two
losses through Week 9 of the season.  “This league is tough,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said during
his post-game news conference. “I don’t know how many people
predicted Cleveland would win that game besides myself, but they
found a way to beat New England, which was the hottest team in
the league.”  Baltimore and Atlanta also have 6-2 records midway through
their regular-season schedules. The Ravens beat Miami 26-10
yesterday and the Falcons defeated Tampa Bay 27-21.  The Pittsburgh Steelers visit the Cincinnati Bengals
tonight with a chance to improve to 6-2.  Saints, Packers Win  The defending Super Bowl champion New Orleans Saints are
6-3 after beating the Carolina Panthers 34-3. The Green Bay
Packers have a similar record after a 45-7 win over the Dallas
Cowboys, who fell to 1-7 and tied a team record by allowing at
least 35 points for the third straight game.  The Minnesota Vikings beat the Arizona Cardinals 27-24 in
overtime, rallying from a 24-10 deficit with less than four
minutes to play at the Metrodome in Minneapolis.  The Buffalo Bills remain the only winless team in the NFL
after a 22-19 loss to Chicago. The Bills fell to 0-3 in home
games played in Toronto over the past three seasons.  The Philadelphia Eagles (5-3) stayed one game behind the
Giants in the National Football Conference’s East Division by
beating the Indianapolis Colts 26-24. Eagles quarterback  Michael Vick  threw for one touchdown and ran for another after missing
the previous three games with a rib injury. The Colts (5-3) had
a 13-game November winning streak snapped.  Kansas City missed a chance to start 6-2 with a 23-20
overtime loss to the Oakland Raiders, while San Diego beat
Houston 29-23.  Giants Roll  In Seattle, the Giants fumbled on their opening drive and
then scored touchdowns on their next three possessions to open a
21-0 first-quarter lead.  Ahmad Bradshaw  ran for two touchdowns while  Hakeem Nicks ,
 Steve Smith  and  Kevin Boss  had touchdown receptions for the
Giants, who held a 487-162 advantage in total offensive yards.  “Things are going well but we’ve just got to make sure we
stay committed to getting better,” Manning said. “We’ve got a
tough schedule ahead.”  The Jets rallied from a 10-point deficit in Detroit as
quarterback  Mark Sanchez  scored on a 1-yard quarterback sneak
with 2:46 left in the fourth quarter. He then led a nine-play,
60-yard drive to set up a tying 36-yard field goal by  Nick Folk 
as time expired.  In overtime, Sanchez’s 52-yard pass to  Santonio Holmes  on
the Jets’ second offensive play set up Folk’s winning 30-yard
kick as New York improved to 4-0 on the road this season.  ‘A Lot Easier’  “We just have to play like that from play one,” said
Sanchez, who passed for 323 yards. “It would make it a lot
easier to not wait until the fourth quarter to turn it on.”  The Lions (2-6) were denied their first winning streak
since the 2007 season. Detroit missed an extra point in the
third quarter after kicker  Jason Hanson  was hurt and defensive
tackle  Ndamukong Suh  hit the upright as his replacement.  The Patriots suffered their second loss as Browns running
back  Peyton Hillis  rushed for 184 yards and two touchdowns in
Cleveland. Rookie quarterback  Colt McCoy  added a rushing score
for the Browns, who host the Jets next week.  In Minneapolis, the Vikings snapped a two-game losing
streak and improved to 3-5 as  Brett Favre  passed for a career-
high 446 yards and sparked a fourth-quarter comeback.  Adrian Peterson  scored on a 4-yard run with 3:34 left and
Favre found  Visanthe Shiancoe  with a 25-yard pass to tie the
game with 27 seconds remaining. After Arizona punted in
overtime, Favre drove the Vikings 51 yards to set up a 35-yard
field goal by  Ryan Longwell .  “Time will tell if that gives us a spark,” Favre said
after his record-extending 293rd straight start.  Vikings owner  Zygi Wilf  has considered replacing coach  Brad Childress  with defensive coordinator  Leslie Frazier , ESPN
 reported , without saying where it got the information. Wilf
declined to comment before the game and congratulated Childress
and the players as they entered the locker room afterward.  Minnesota fans had chanted “Fire Childress!” on several
occasions before the Vikings rallied.  “They came expecting to see an execution,” Childress
said. “It ended up being a pretty good football game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 