-- Torres Wants Liverpool to Use Momentum After Win Over Chelsea
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2010-11-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/newcastle-wins-1-0-at-arsenal-in-soccer-s-premier-league-carroll-scores.html
Fernando Torres  scored both goals as
Liverpool beat Chelsea 2-0, then called for his teammates to
capitalize on the momentum of three straight Premier League wins.  The 26-year-old, who doubled his tally for the season
yesterday, helped the Reds climb to ninth place in the 20-team
standings and inflict leader Chelsea’s second league defeat. Two
games previously, Liverpool was in the relegation positions.  “Now we have to show against the teams in the middle of
the table, or teams who are not as good as Chelsea, we can play
this way, with this intensity and quality,” Torres said in an
interview with Sky Sports.  Elsewhere, Newcastle upset Arsenal 1-0, while Manchester
City won 2-0 at West Bromwich Albion.  Defending champion Chelsea has 25 points from 11 matches,
two ahead of Manchester United, with Arsenal and City on 20
points. Newcastle is three points further back, with Liverpool
among a group of five teams on 15 points.  Liverpool took an 11th-minute lead against the Blues as
Torres collected a pass from  Dirk Kuyt  before slipping the ball
past goalkeeper  Petr Cech .  Torres then doubled the home team’s advantage one minute
before halftime. The Spanish striker cut in from the left and
curled a shot into the far corner of the net.  Chelsea Threat  Chelsea responded by introducing  Didier Drogba  at halftime
and started to provide a greater threat.  Jose Reina  tipped away
Yury Zhirkov’s shot and deflected a close-range  Florent Malouda 
effort.  The Blues got even closer with four minutes left as  Nicolas Anelka ’s shot squeezed under Reina before bouncing against the
bar.  Jamie Carragher  prevented Drogba from following up.  Liverpool also had chances, with Cech sticking out a leg to
stop Kuyt after 74 minutes.  Liverpool manager  Roy Hodgson  said Torres is a “vital
player” and yesterday’s performance signaled he is “right up
there” with his best form after a slow start to the campaign.  “We weren’t good enough at the start of the season,”
Torres said. “But we thought from the beginning we needed time
to work with a new manager and new players.”  Newcastle won at Arsenal for the first time in almost nine
years, with the only goal coming from  Andy Carroll  at the
Emirates Stadium.  Carroll’s sixth goal of the season gave Newcastle its third
straight league victory. Arsenal, which was on a run of three
wins, finished with 10 men after center-back Laurent Koscielny
was red-carded in injury time.  Unguarded Net  Newcastle got its goal just before halftime.  Joey Barton 
lifted a free kick into the penalty area and Carroll beat
goalkeeper Lukasz Fabianski to head into the unguarded net.  Arsenal hit the frame of the goal twice, firstly through a
deflected free kick from  Cesc Fabregas  that smashed against the
crossbar on 12 minutes.  Theo Walcott  then fired against the
underside of the bar early in the second half.  Newcastle goalkeeper  Tim Krul  also produced a diving save
in the first half to stop  Samir Nasri ’s shot.  Newcastle’s last away win against Arsenal was in December
2001. It had failed to beat the Gunners in nine straight matches
home and away before yesterday.  “Overall I still believe we were very unlucky to lose the
game,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  told reporters. “They had
one shot on target and that was their goal.”  Mario Balotelli scored twice as Manchester City ended a
two-game losing run in the league. He was then dismissed after
tussling with Youssouf Mulumbu, who was red-carded himself later
in the match.  Two days ago, Manchester United beat Wolverhampton
Wanderers 2-1, Bolton defeated Tottenham 4-2, West Ham drew 2-2
at Birmingham City, while Blackpool and Everton also tied 2-2.
Fulham drew 1-1 against Aston Villa, Sunderland beat Stoke City
2-0, and Blackburn defeated Wigan 2-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 