-- Obama Fears `New Normal' Economic Recovery of High Profits, No Job Growth
-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 2010-11-07T23:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/obama-fears-new-normal-economic-recovery-of-high-profits-no-job-growth.html
President  Barack Obama  said he is
concerned the U.S. economic recovery might continue without
creating enough jobs to cut the unemployment rate to its pre-
recession levels.  “What is a danger is that we stay stuck in a new normal
where unemployment  rates  stay high,” Obama said on CBS’s “60
Minutes” program today. “People who have jobs see their
incomes go up. Businesses make big profits. But they’ve learned
to do more with less, and so they don’t hire.”  Obama, who blamed Democratic losses in congressional
elections last week on high unemployment, said there are limits
to what the government can do to help boost job growth after
spending almost a trillion dollars on economic stimulus while
the Federal Reserve lowered interest rates to zero.  “Some of this is going to be just a matter of the economy
healing,” he said.  Still, he said he will push for more investments in public
works to keep construction workers employed while the economy
recovers.  “Historically, rebuilding our infrastructure is something
that has garnered Democratic and Republican support,” he said.
“I want to have a conversation with them and see if that’s
still the case.”  The U.S. jobless rate remains at 9.6 percent even though,
according to the National Bureau of Economic Research, the
recession officially ended more than a year ago. The rate is
twice the 4.8 percent of February 2008 just before  Bear Stearns
Co.  foundered, triggering a financial crisis.  Lost Jobs  The U.S. has lost 2.4 million payroll jobs since Obama took
office, and 7.5 million jobs since the recession began in
December 2007. Employers have begun hiring this year, with
companies adding 151,000 jobs last month, according to the Labor
Department.  “We keep on seeing growth that is just too slow to bring
back the eight million jobs that were lost,” Obama said.
“That’s something that I’ve spent a lot of time thinking
about.”  Republicans last week gained at least 60 seats in the U.S.
House and will have control in January with the possibility of
an even bigger majority by prevailing some of the nine undecided
races. They also picked up six seats in the Senate, cutting the
Democrats’ majority.  Obama said he would like to work out a deal with
Republicans to ensure that the tax cuts enacted under former
President George W. Bush remain in effect for middle-class
Americans. Republicans want to keep the lower rates as well for
high-income taxpayers, an idea Obama opposes. The tax cuts are
due to expire at the end of the year.  “I think both Democrats and Republicans agree that for
people making $250,000 a year or less, the last thing we want
right now is to see their taxes go up.” Obama said. “Not only
would it be bad for them, but it’d be bad for the economy as a
whole.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Fitzgerald  in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  