-- Obama, Visiting India, Promotes Trade, Democracy on First Asia Tour Stop
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-11-07T10:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/obama-says-u-s-congress-elections-may-spur-some-midcourse-corrections-.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  said
today that Democratic losses in last week’s congressional
elections may require him to make some “midcourse
corrections,” conceding the results were a “healthy” outcome
of democracy.  “One of the wonderful things about democracy is that when
the people are not happy it’s their right, obligation and duty
to express their unhappiness, much to the regret sometimes of
incumbents,” Obama told Indian university students at  St.
Xavier’s College  in Mumbai.  “But that’s a good thing, that’s a healthy thing,” Obama
said at the town-hall meeting where he answered questions on a
range of issues including U.S. policy toward Pakistan and
Afghanistan and the legacy of Indian independence leader Mahatma
Gandhi.  Less than a week after Democrats lost control of the  House
of Representatives  in what Obama called a “shellacking” for
his party, the U.S. president is in India highlighting the
strategic and economic alliance between the world’s two largest
democracies. Administration officials have said the town-hall
style events like today’s provide an opportunity to talk about
the future of the U.S.-India partnership that the president
hopes to take to a new level.  Obama is on the second day of a four-country Asian tour to
promote trade and boost exports, saying both are critical to
repairing the U.S. economy and creating jobs at home.  CEO Summit  Yesterday in Mumbai, Obama addressed a summit of chief
executive officers that included  Jeffrey Immelt  of  General
Electric Co.  and  Jim McNerney  of  Boeing Co.  and touted the
opportunities Indian markets present for U.S. companies, calling
an enhanced trade relationship a “win-win” for both countries.  Obama continued to advocate for free trade, while
cautioning that both countries would revert to protectionism if
they didn’t believe that trade was a two-way street. If the
benefits of trade are not explained, “then people in the United
States will think that this is a bad deal for us,” he said.  Asked by a student why the U.S. does not declare India’s
neighbor, Pakistan, a “terrorist state,” Obama said the
Pakistani government now understands “the potential threat that
exists in their own borders” from “extremist elements”.  “What we have tried to do over the last several years has
been to engage aggressively with the Pakistan government to
communicate that we want nothing more than a stable, prosperous,
peaceful Pakistan and that we will work with the Pakistani
government in order to eradicate this extremism.”  ‘Stable Pakistan’  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  announced last month an
additional $2 billion in U.S. military aid for Pakistan’s fight
against Taliban and allied militants along its Afghan border.
Pakistan’s army has been forced to focus on flood relief
following the country’s worst natural disaster in decades.  “If Pakistan is unstable, then that’s bad for India. If
Pakistan is stable and prosperous, that’s good. Because India is
on the move,” Obama said in the school courtyard. Obama has
invited Pakistan’s President  Asif Ali Zardari  to visit the U.S.
next year.  Congress last year approved $7.5 billion in economic
development aid to build Pakistani roads, schools, power
facilities and infrastructure.  India’s government blamed the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-
Taiba militant group for the 2008 attack on Mumbai, and has
urged Zardari’s government to dismantle terrorist outfits in the
country before India agrees to restart broad peace talks called
off in the wake of the assault.  Taliban Talks  Obama said today that he hoped “trust develops between the
two countries. That dialogue begins, perhaps on less
controversial issues building up to more controversial issues.
And that over time, there’s a recognition that India and
Pakistan can live side by side in peace.”  The U.S. could not impose itself on the neighbors’ ties, he
said. “Ultimately, India and Pakistan have to arrive at their
own understanding of how the relationship evolves,” the
president said.  “Obama needs to stay away from making specific comments
about Pakistan from India,” said  Teresita Schaffer , who heads
the South Asia program at the  Center for Strategic and
International Studies , a Washington policy group. It could hurt
U.S. relations with Pakistan and “would effectively eliminate
any positive effect such words might have on Pakistan’s
behavior.”  On Afghanistan, Obama restated support for political talks
between President  Hamid Karzai ’s government and those Taliban
who “are willing to renounce violence” and respect women’s
rights as laid out in the country’s 2004 constitution.  Diwali Dance  Afghans’ ability to negotiate political accords may affect
the pace of the U.S. troop withdrawal that Obama has vowed to
begin in July 2011, he said.  Today’s outreach to college-age students is similar to
others the president has held in France, Turkey and China. Obama
hopes such events can deepen ties with allies and emerging
partners, said  Ben Rhodes , U.S. deputy national security adviser.
Obama delivered his major address to the Muslim world from Cairo
University in June 2009.  Earlier in Mumbai today, the president and First Lady met
school children and attended a candle-lighting service and dance
performance honoring Diwali, the festival of lights. They joined
young children in a dance dedicated to the region’s fishing
traditions.  The Obamas later left for New Delhi where they’ll have a
private dinner with Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  and his
wife, Gursharan Kaur. Obama will address India’s parliament
tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Mumbai at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net 
 Hans Nichols  in Mumbai at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  