-- Obama, Singh Talks to Shape `Indispensable Partnership'
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-11-08T10:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/obama-singh-talks-in-delhi-to-shape-century-s-indispensable-partnership-.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  and
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  pledged to deepen economic
and strategic ties even as they signaled differences on how best
to improve relations between India and Pakistan.  Obama also indicated he may support India’s bid to become a
permanent member of the United Nations Security Council when he
addresses parliament in New Delhi later today. That step would
fulfill Indian hopes of having the U.S. join France and the U.K.
in endorsing its candidacy.  Singh and Obama both said they hoped a similar spirit of
cooperation would define this week’s Group of 20 nations summit
in South Korea where they’ll join world leaders in discussing
currency and trade tensions. They told a joint briefing that
their two countries have formed a partnership for the 21st
century founded on shared interests including education,
counterterrorism and nuclear nonproliferation.  “I don’t think India’s emerging, it has emerged,” Obama
said. “I am confident that as India’s influence in the world
continues to rise, so too will the opportunities for closer
cooperation between our two countries.”  Potential flashpoints in what Obama said was “no ordinary
relationship” were also on show. Obama reiterated that stronger
economic ties are a “win-win” for both countries, while
acknowledging that many Americans see the relationship through a
more competitive lens with U.S. jobs being outsourced to India.  Obama began his three-day visit by addressing business
leaders in Mumbai, where he said recently sealed contracts
between the two countries would create 50,000 jobs in the U.S.  Job Creation  When the American people “ask me why are you spending time
with India after they have taken our jobs,” Obama said at
today’s press conference, “I want to be able to say, actually,
you know what, they just created 50,000 jobs and that’s why we
shouldn’t be resorting to protectionist measures.”  On Pakistan, a critical U.S. regional ally in the war in
Afghanistan, Singh rebuffed Obama’s overture to help facilitate
talks to reduce tensions between two nuclear-armed neighbors.  “We are committed to engage Pakistan, we are committed to
resolve all outstanding issues between our two countries,”
Singh said. “But it is our request that you cannot
simultaneously be talking and at the same time the terror
machine is as active as ever before,” he said. “Once Pakistan
moves away from this terror-induced coercion, we will be very
happy to engage productively with Pakistan to resolve our
outstanding issues.”  Mumbai Attacks  India blames the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba militant
group for the deadly 2008 attack on Mumbai, and has urged the
government of President  Asif Ali Zardari  to dismantle terrorist
outfits before India agrees to restart broad peace talks called
off in the wake of the assault.  The G-20 gathering takes place as countries around the
world weigh the implications of the Federal Reserve’s Nov. 3
decision to inject $600 billion into the U.S. economy by buying
Treasuries in a bid to spur growth. German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Nov. 5 in Berlin that the Fed was
“clueless” and the move wouldn’t work, while Chinese officials
said they will monitor the Fed policy’s impact on growth and
global confidence.  The U.S. has called on China to boost consumption and let
the yuan rise, saying the country’s undervalued currency gives
Chinese exporters an unfair advantage. While Obama didn’t
mention China specifically, he said he hasn’t seen the kind of
global adjustments with respect to currency for more balanced
growth patterns.  Trade Imbalances  The U.S. is also hoping to gain international support for a
plan to foster smaller trade imbalances and encourage countries
to let their currencies trade freely. On trade imbalances and
currency issues, Obama praised Indian’s approach saying it “has
been part of the solution, not part of the problem.”  Obama also declined to discuss the Fed’s Treasury
purchases, restating White House policy to not comment on a
independent body’s actions for “institutional” reasons. At the
same time, he said he and the central bank shared the same
concerns. “The worst thing that could happen to the world
economy, not just ours, but the entire world’s economy is if we
end up being stuck with no growth or very limited growth,”
Obama said. “I think that’s the Fed’s concern and that’s my
concern as well.”  Under agreements reached during talks today India and the
U.S. will engage in a new homeland security dialogue, and extend
cooperation in space and defense, the leaders said. Obama
confirmed that the U.S. will remove Indian organizations working
in both fields from the “entities list” that bars them from
importing technology in punishment for India testing a nuclear
device in 1998.  Earlier in the day, Obama received his official welcome
ceremony at the presidential palace, where his black limousine
was greeted by soldiers on horseback. Later, he paid his
respects to  Mohandas Gandhi , laying a wreath at Rajghat, the
site of the independence leader’s cremation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Mumbai at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net 
 Hans Nichols  in Mumbai at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Tackett at 
 mtackett@bloomberg.net  