-- Oil Trades Near a Two-Year High as U.S. Employment Figures Beat Forecasts
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2010-11-08T09:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/oil-extends-longest-rally-since-april-as-u-s-jobs-report-beats-forecasts.html
Crude oil traded near its highest
level in two years on speculation that rising U.S. employment
may signal a recovery in fuel demand in the world’s biggest
crude-consuming nation.  Futures reversed gains of as much as 0.7 percent in New
York as the dollar’s strength curbed investor demand for
commodities. Hedge funds and other large speculators raised
bullish bets on oil to the most since 2006 last week even before
the Federal Reserve said it will extend its debt-buying
program to boost the economy. U.S. payrolls increased more than
forecast, a Labor Department report showed Nov. 5.  “Oil is quite positive; the market has taken heart in the
unemployment rate,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of
Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney. “Crude has broken
through the topside of the range, so you’ve got to look for
higher prices.”  Crude for December delivery was at $86.62 a barrel, down 23
cents, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 8:52 a.m. London time. The contract earlier rose as much as
64 cents to $87.49, the highest since Oct. 9, 2008. Brent crude
for December settlement traded at $87.81 a barrel, down 30
cents, on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  The increase in U.S. payrolls was the first since May and
exceeded all estimates from economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The U.S. jobless rate held at 9.6 percent, where it’s been
since August, according to the Labor Department.  Rising Streak  Oil’s five days of gains last week was the longest rising
streak since a six-day rally through April 6, amid speculation
the Federal Reserve’s stimulus program will weaken the dollar. A
declining U.S. currency tends to boost the appeal of raw
materials priced in dollars. Gold for immediate delivery reached
a record high of $1,398.60 an ounce.  The Fed said Nov. 3 it will buy an additional $600 billion
of Treasuries through June to spur the economy. The dollar last
week dropped to $1.4282 against the euro, the weakest level
since Jan. 20. It strengthened for a second day versus the 16-
nation currency on bets Ireland will struggle to garner support
for its budget and as political uncertainty in Greece damped
demand for the region’s assets.  Hedge funds ramped up bullish bets on oil to the highest
level since at least June 2006 as the Fed enacted stimulus
measures. The funds and other large speculators increased wagers
on rising prices by 8.6 percent in the seven days ended Nov. 2,
according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane Lee in Kuala Lumpur at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net . 