-- Pipeline to Baltic, Moscow Road Herald $2.5 Billion Market: Russia Credit
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a
-- 2010-11-08T16:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/oil-pipeline-to-baltic-highway-herald-2-5-billion-market-russia-credit.html
Russian companies building a spur of
the Moscow-to-Minsk highway and an oil pipeline to the Baltic
Sea are sparking a new market for infrastructure bonds that the
government expects to reach $2.5 billion a year.  OAO Main Road, a group comprising  ZAO Lider , which manages
natural-gas exporter OAO Gazprom’s pension funds, and companies
such as Portuguese toll operator  Brisa-Auto Estradas de Portugal
SA , is selling 8 billion rubles ($261 million) of 18-year debt
later this month.  OAO Western High-Speed Diameter  plans to
market 10 billion rubles of 20-year, state-guaranteed bonds this
month and 15 billion rubles next year for a St. Petersburg
highway. Ust-Luga Port on the Baltic Sea plans to sell as much
as 10 billion rubles of notes next year.  Russian sellers may have to pay more relative to sovereign
debt than their peers in India and China. Main Road expects to
pay a premium of 1.6 percentage points over Russian Finance
Ministry bonds, half a point more than comparable Indian spreads
and a point more than Chinese, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The risk reward is obviously better for infrastructure
bonds than for pure sovereign bonds,” said  Yerlan Syzdykov , a
fund manager in Dublin at  Pioneer Investments , which oversees
about $252 billion. “From this perspective, we’ve always been
looking at this as sovereign-plus, pricing-wise.”  Infrastructure investments in emerging markets will total
$4 trillion over the next five years, according to Syzdykov.
Pioneer, a unit of Italian bank UniCredit SpA, has invested in
projects in countries including Peru, Philippines and Brazil.  Funding Roads  Russia needs about $1 trillion over the next decade to
finance the overhaul of the country’s transportation system and
capital markets can be used as “a supplement to, or instead of
traditional bank financing,” according to  Oleg Pankratov , co-
head of global banking at VTB Capital in London.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s government is using the
market to close a funding gap for roads the World Bank estimates
at about 1.2 percent of gross domestic product, or about $15
billion. The bonds also are a response to capping state
expenditures this year after Russia reported its first budget
deficit in a decade.  “The idea of infrastructure bonds was born out of the
crisis,”  Alexei Chichkanov , head of the St. Petersburg
government’s investment committee, which oversees the city
highway project, said in a Nov. 3 interview. “It became clear
that financing large infrastructure projects without additional
state guarantees is extremely difficult.”  Moscow Gridlock  Russian state spending on transportation will fall to 1.9
percent of GDP this year from the “already low level of” 2.5
percent in 2009, the World Bank said in a  report  published on
June 16. Gridlock in the capital costs Moscow 400 billion rubles
a year, the Transport Ministry estimates.  “Our infrastructure has reached a critical condition, it
needs massive, long-term investments,” said  Alexander Sinenko ,
deputy head of the  Federal Financial Market Service  in Moscow.
“It’s necessary to seek financing on the securities market.”  India plans to spend $1.5 trillion in the decade through
2017 to build roads, ports and power plants. Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  asked companies and investors on March 23 to fund
half the planned $1 trillion budgeted for the five years
starting April 2012. China is spending about $300 billion to
build a high-speed network of at least 18,000 kilometers (11,185
miles) by 2020.  “The needs are huge and there is an increasing number of
projects that are coming on stream and being developed,” said
 Bertrand Millot , the chief investment officer at Cordiant
Capital Inc., a Montreal-based investor in emerging-market loans
and infrastructure projects. “Governments are slowly but surely
realizing that they can’t do everything themselves and the
private sector should be involved.”  30-Year Concession  For Russian corporate debt to qualify as an infrastructure
bond, notes must be issued by a winner of a government
concession or receive state guarantees, Sinenko said on Nov. 2.
Transport Minister  Igor Levitin  said last year he expects annual
sales of the infrastructure bonds to reach 75 billion rubles.  Main Road, based in Moscow, signed a 30-year concession
agreement last year with the Russian government for a 32.4
billion ruble project, according to the company’s  website . The
government will contribute 11 billion rubles and a further 19
billion rubles will be raised from the capital markets.  The group expects to pay a premium of 160 basis points, or
1.6 percentage points, for state OFZ bonds on 18-year debt non-
callable for the first 11 years after the issue, according to an
Oct. 28 report by OAO Gazprombank, the lending arm of Russia’s
gas export monopoly that’s managing the sale.  Russian Risk  In India, the extra yield investors demand to own
Infrastructure Development Finance Co.’s 9 billion rupees
($203.5 million) of 8.48 percent bonds due in 2013 rose to 110
basis points as of Nov. 2 from 109 basis points on Oct. 1,
according to Barclays Plc prices on Bloomberg.  The Chinese rail ministry’s 10 billion yuan ($1.5 billion)
of 4.1 percent notes due 2025 traded at a spread of 53 basis
points above the 15-year China government bond, according to
Chinabond prices and Bloomberg data.  “Investors demand a higher risk premium to buy Russian
equities and you can really tell that bondholders are also
seeking the same higher premium for weaker corporate governance
and institutional underdevelopment,” Pioneer’s Syzdykov said.  The ruble was little changed at 30.7851 per dollar by the 5
p.m. close in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and
interest rate differentials and allow companies to hedge against
currency movements, show the ruble at 31.0526 per dollar in
three months.  Default Swaps  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 rose 2 basis
points to 4.203 percent. The yield on the country’s ruble notes
due November 2014 gained 1 basis point to 6.820 percent.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose 4.5 basis points to
134, down from this year’s peak of 217, according to prices from
CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade, cost 11
basis points more than similar contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries increased 1 basis point to 198,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ indexes. The difference
compares with 128 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 178 for
Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  ‘Attractively Priced’  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 35 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  Ust Luga Port on the Baltic Sea, picked by Putin to become
the end point of a new pipeline, plans to sell as much as 10
billion rubles of bonds with maturities of five or seven years.  The group expects rates to be “more attractively priced”
than the 9.9 percent on the ruble debt it sold in 2007, which
matured earlier this year,  Maxim Shirokov , chief executive
officer of the operator,  OAO Ust-Luga Co. , said in a Nov. 2
interview. The port needs the funds to help build terminals and
a maritime logistics center, he said.  “We are looking to investors who aren’t ready to work with
high risk,” he said. “The project in Ust-Luga needs this type
of financing as we are poised to start.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 