-- Orica's Full-Year Profit More Than Doubles After Spinning Off Paints Unit
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-11-08T00:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/orica-reports-full-year-profit-rose-to-1-34-billion-sales-decline-12-.html
Orica Ltd. , the world’s largest
industrial explosives maker, said full-year net income more than
doubled after spinning off its DuluxGroup paints business.  Net profit was A$1.32 billion ($1.34 billion) for the 12
months ended Sept. 30, compared with A$541.8 million a year ago,
the Melbourne-based company said today in a statement.  Orica this year spun out its  DuluxGroup  paints and garden
products division to focus on the mining services and chemicals
businesses. The company, which supplies explosives for coal and
copper production, quarrying and construction, forecast higher
profit before one-time items for this year.  Demand for Orica’s mine blasting services and chemicals
such as cyanide, used in gold extraction, recovered strongest in
North and South America, Managing Director  Graeme Liebelt  said
during a conference call with reporters. Market conditions
“improved” generally during the second half of the year, and
all of Orica’s operating regions should benefit from a global
recovery, Liebelt said. Orcia’s  balance sheet  is in “excellent
shape,” allowing the company to look for acquisitions, he said.  Orica was up 2.3 percent at A$26.29 on the Australian stock
exchange at 11:22 a.m., taking this year’s advance to 12 percent.  The company made a A$794 million profit on the demerger of
DuluxGroup, Orica said in a statement. Profit from operations,
excluding the paint unit, was A$619 million, compared with A$557
million a year earlier, the company said.  The group may consider acquisitions to bolster the
company’s focus on explosives, chemicals and services, Liebelt
said in July.  Orica sold $600 million of bonds to private investors in
the U.S. and will use the proceeds to repay bank loans and
commercial paper, allowing it to fund “growth opportunities”
by re-borrowing through those facilities, the company said in a
regulatory filing on Aug. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net  