-- Papandreou's Socialist Party Seen Leading in Key Local Elections in Greece
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2010-11-07T20:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/papandreou-s-socialist-party-seen-leading-in-key-local-elections-in-greece.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s socialist party was leading in a key local vote
today that Papandreou has called a test of support for his
government as it grapples with a crippling budget deficit and
debt burden.  Candidates backed by the socialist Pasok party will win
eight of 13 regional authorities, with the New Democracy party
ahead in the other five in the first round of elections,
according to Yannis Karakadas, the chief of Singularlogic SA,
which is running the vote count. Three of the regions may
change, he said. A run-off election between candidates who don’t
win a majority will be held Nov. 14.  Papandreou threatened earlier that he may call an early
national election unless voters endorse him in today’s
balloting. Polls showed most Greeks were planning a vote of
protest after his 13-month-old government cut wages and pensions
and raised taxes to secure a 110 billion-euro ($154.3 billion)
rescue package from the European Union and International
Monetary Fund in May.  Papandreou will address the Greek people with “absolute
responsibility and sincerity” as soon as there is a “clear and
reliable” result from the count, government spokesman  George Petalotis  said as voting ended.  Almost 10 million people were entitled to cast ballots to
elect officials for 325 Greek municipalities and 13 regions.
About 60 percent of the electorate abstained from voting,
according to official results so far. Socialists were ahead in
three of the country’s five biggest municipalities as well,
according to projections.  Voting Appetite  Eight in 10 Greeks don’t want early elections, according to
a poll of 1,027 voters conducted by Public Issue from Nov. 4 to
Nov. 6 for Skai television and released today.  The poll showed the same number of voters rejected
Papandreou’s appeal for support and that 65 percent considered
there were alternatives to the rescue package, compared with 59
percent in May when it was drafted. No exit polls have been
conducted for today’s elections.  “All of them are mocking us, telling lies,” Spyros
Varkatzoulis, 27, a construction worker in Athens, said on Nov.
6. “There’s no reason to vote for any of them.”  The prospect of political upheaval has unnerved investors
again, just after Greece’s cost of borrowing had started to
decline. Yields on 10-year Greek bonds climbed above 11 percent
last week from a low of 8.77 percent on Oct. 13.  Spread Widens  The  spread  against yields on German bunds of the same
maturity has widened 211 basis points since Papandreou raised
the possibility of early elections last month. It had narrowed
to 649 basis points on Oct. 18 from a record 965 on May 7, five
days after the EU and IMF approved the bailout.  Most polls showed before today’s countdown that Greeks will
vote against Pasok-backed candidates and the government’s wage
and pension cuts, designed to narrow a budget deficit equal to
almost 13.6 percent of gross domestic product. The size of the
shortfall was revealed after Papandreou won elections in October
2009 on a promise of higher wages and increased state spending.  Papandreou and his socialist party lead the main opposition
New Democracy party. Forty-one percent had a higher level of
trust for Papandreou, compared with 23 percent for New Democracy
leader  Antonis Samaras , according to the Kapa poll.  Yiannis Dimaras, one of three lawmakers expelled from Pasok
after defying Papandreou in the May vote on terms of the
bailout, conceded defeat today as he came in third in the race
to head a new regional authority for the greater Athens area,
the biggest in Greece.  Dimaras, 66, has campaigned under the slogan: “Memorandum
for the people,” a reference to the May agreement with the EU
and IMF. He said he will resign from parliament on Jan. 1,
allowing Papandreou to name a socialist party member in his
place and boosting his majority in parliament to 158 in the 300-
seat chamber.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  