-- Papandreou Braces for Austerity Backlash in Greece Local Elections Today
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2010-11-07T17:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/papandreou-braces-for-austerity-backlash-in-greece-local-elections-today.html
Greeks voted today in local elections
that Prime Minister  George Papandreou  has called a key test of
support for his government as it grapples with a crippling
budget deficit and debt burden.  Almost 10 million people were entitled to cast ballots to
elect officials for 325 Greek municipalities and 13 regions.
Voting closed at 7 p.m. local time with an initial tally of the
results due around 9 p.m. A run-off election between candidates
who don’t win a majority will be held Nov. 14.  Papandreou’s 13-month-old government has cut wages and
pensions and raised taxes after inheriting an economy that
required a 110 billion-euro ($154.3 billion) rescue package from
the European Union and International Monetary Fund in May. He
told Greeks on Oct. 25 to rally behind his Pasok party and said
he might call an early national vote unless they endorse him.
Polls show most Greeks will protest his policies.  “Today we take decisions for the stability of the
country’s course,” Papandreou said after casting his vote this
morning. “And we need this stability to continue the obvious --
many times difficult -- but obvious changes.”  Papandreou will address the Greek people with “absolute
responsibility and sincerity” as soon as there is a “clear and
reliable” result from the count, government spokesman  George Petalotis  said as voting ended.  Voting Appetite  Eight in 10 Greeks don’t want early elections, according to
a poll of 1,027 voters conducted by Public Issue from Nov. 4 to
Nov. 6 for Skai television and released today.  The poll showed the same number of voters rejected
Papandreou’s appeal for support and that 65 percent considered
there were alternatives to the rescue package, compared with 59
percent in May when it was drafted. No exit polls have been
conducted for today’s elections.  “All of them are mocking us, telling lies,” Spyros
Varkatzoulis, 27, a construction worker in Athens, said on Nov.
6. “There’s no reason to vote for any of them.”  The prospect of political upheaval has unnerved investors
again, just after Greece’s cost of borrowing had started to
decline. Yields on 10-year Greek bonds climbed above 11 percent
last week from a low of 8.77 percent on Oct. 13.  Spread Widens  The  spread  against German bunds of the same maturity has
widened 211 basis points since Papandreou raised the possibility
of early elections last month. It had narrowed to 649 basis
points on Oct. 18 from a record 965 on May 7, five days after
the EU and IMF approved the bailout.  Most polls show Greeks will vote against Pasok-backed
candidates and the government’s wage and pension cuts, designed
to narrow a budget deficit equal to almost 13.6 percent of gross
domestic product. The size of the shortfall was revealed after
Papandreou won elections in October 2009 on a promise of higher
wages and increased state spending.  Papandreou and his socialist party lead the main opposition
New Democracy party. Forty-one percent had a higher level of
trust for Papandreou, compared with 23 percent for New Democracy
leader  Antonis Samaras , according to the Kapa poll.  Yiannis Dimaras, one of three lawmakers expelled from Pasok
after defying Papandreou in the May vote on terms of the
bailout, was touted as a potential winner against the ruling
party’s candidate in the race to head a new regional authority
for the greater Athens area, the biggest in Greece.  Trailing Third  Dimaras, 66, has campaigned under the slogan: “Memorandum
for the people,” a reference to the May agreement with the EU
and IMF. A GPO opinion poll for Mega TV showed Dimaras trailing
in third place behind the ruling party and the New Democracy
candidate, according to 2,000 people interviewed yesterday.  Today’s ballot is the first since Papandreou reshaped local
government. The Kallikratis plan, named for one of the
architects of the 2,500-year-old Parthenon Temple, aims to save
the government at least 1.5 billion euros over three years.  Greece’s 1,034 local municipalities will be cut to 325, and
67 regional and prefectures will be replaced with 13 more
powerful regional authorities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  