-- Pelosi, Reid May Have Passed Their Sell-By Date: Albert R. Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2010-11-07T17:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/pelosi-reid-may-have-passed-their-sell-by-date-commentary-by-albert-hunt.html
Republicans, after picking up 61
House seats, six Senate spots, seven new governorships and 680
additional state legislators, received two more gifts:  Harry Reid  and  Nancy Pelosi .  In U.S. elections where voters expressed disapproval with
Washington, the decision of the House speaker to remain as the
Democratic leader of the minority, following Senate Majority
Leader Reid’s re-election in  Nevada , means that the face of the
congressional party will continue to be yesterday. After
Pelosi’s surprise announcement Nov. 5, Republicans were
jubilant. Leading Democratic strategists were despondent.  Before her announcement, several House Democrats who barely
survived the Nov. 2 elections said it would be a mistake for
Pelosi to stay on as leader.  “A change in leadership,” Democratic Representative Joe Donnelly of  Indiana  said, is necessary “to reflect the desires
of the millions of people who cast votes in this recent
election.” Only with new leadership, said Representative Larry Kissell of  North Carolina , can House Democrats “become a
national party again.”  Pelosi, 70, will prevail in a decidedly liberal caucus
where many of her supporters won easily in Democratic districts.
The heaviest losses, said Representative Jason Altmire, a
Pennsylvania Democrat who won his re-election contest 51 percent
to 49 percent, were among “the moderates and the conservatives
who as a group would have voted against her.”  Toxic in Swing Areas  Kissell won with 53 percent of the vote and Donnelly won a
48 percent to 47 percent squeaker. It’s in those swing areas and
the dozens of districts the Democrats lost -- and that they need
to recapture to be a majority again -- that the news she plans
to come back as minority leader is toxic.  The California Democrat’s defenders say it would display
weakness to make the most effective speaker in modern times a
scapegoat. The elections, they say, were less about her than
public relations, messaging problems and, most of all, a 9.6
percent unemployment rate.  What that seems to ignore are the millions of voters in
places like  South Bend , Indiana, or  Charlotte , North Carolina,
who supported President  Barack Obama , are disappointed and
anxious today and hope for constructive change. The
congressional Democrats’ response: It’s business as usual.  The message is “we’re going to keep doing exactly what we
were doing” before the party “got crushed,” Altmire said.  Nevada’s Economy  On the Senate side, Reid displayed his toughness and
resilience in winning re-election in a state with the highest
jobless and home-foreclosure rates and the most bankruptcies in
the country. He won, however, because his Republican opponent,
 Sharron Angle , held views out of any mainstream.  Even with that, the four-term senator seemed spent,
especially in a final debate before the election where he almost
snatched defeat from the jaws of victory. That’s the persona
that returns to lead the Senate.  The Pelosi move is more consequential, especially as the
new Republican majority in the House will ensure much of the
action over the next six months will focus on that chamber.  In four years as speaker, her achievements, colleagues and
many scholars concur, are extraordinary. She produced victory
after victory on controversial measures with a combination of
toughness and charm that no one could have replicated. She kept
a disparate band unified and supportive of the White House.  Formidable Legacy  Her legacy will be as the most formidable House leader
since  Sam Rayburn , who died almost a half century ago. Critics
who blame her for the electoral shellacking, as the president
called it, miss the point. The Democrats, starting with the
president, had an ambitious agenda and massive problems. Her
task as leader was to deliver the vote.  Unlike presidents, congressional leaders are judged not by
the substance and success of their programs, but by their
ability to forge majorities and protect their institutional
prerogatives. What was the ideology or programmatic agenda of
 Thomas Brackett Reed  or Joseph Cannon, two legendary speakers?
Pelosi is in their league. Yet she may tarnish that legacy by
staying on too long, like a prize fighter convinced there are
still a few good fights left.  The speaker’s champions claim that the more progressive
House Democratic Caucus wants her to stay on. Besides, they say,
the next election, in 2012, will be about the presidential
candidates not the House party leader. Voters want someone tough
to defend health care and Social Security and other measures,
they add. These politicians live in an echo chamber.  No Policy Mandate  Their reasoning is as flawed as that of Republicans who
believe voters handed them a policy mandate last week. There is
no way Republicans would have gained anything like  61 House
seats  -- the biggest pickup since 1938 -- without the bad
economy.  Yet voters don’t hold congressional leaders blameless.
Three-quarters of the electorate, in the Nov. 2 surveys,
disapprove of the way Congress handled its job and almost half
express strong disapproval.  Numbers like that cry out for a reset button. Obama, who
has two more years in his term, needs a fresh infusion of people
and policies. On  Capitol Hill , Democrats need new faces to
counter Republicans and work with the White House on those
changes.  It’s not a bad assumption that Republicans will overreach;
that Obama will be a beneficiary, and that the economy, while
not robust, will be comparatively better in two years, and the
president will be a favorite for re-election.  2012 Elections  If that scenario holds, and Democrats attack the
overzealous Republicans, the counter will be: Do you want to
return to the Pelosi-dominated House Democrats? That may
complicate the Democrats’ task of returning to the majority.  In some of those swing districts, there already are
indications it will be hard to persuade candidates, including
some who lost last week, to run again. Thus, the speaker, who
cares passionately about the policies she helped enact and the
party she leads, could set back both by staying on.  Had she bowed out, she wouldn’t have been driven from
office; she would have turned over the reins after a great run.
She would have been an important senior statesman, able to
campaign and raise money for the candidates and causes she
believes in, comfortably assured of her place in history.  Republicans are delighted she chose a different course.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 