-- Pfizer Arthritis Study May Push Pill Into $12 Billion Market
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2010-11-07T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/pfizer-arthritis-study-may-push-pill-into-12-billion-market.html
Pfizer Inc. ’s experimental pill for
rheumatoid arthritis reduced pain and inflammation without
unforeseen side effects in a study that may help the company
supplant injectable drugs with $12 billion in yearly sales.  The treatment, called tasocitinib, lessened inflammation by
20 percent or more for patients after six months, according to
Saeed Fatenejad, head of late-stage trials in inflammation and
immunology at New York-based Pfizer. While the medicine raised
bad as well as good  cholesterol levels  during the study, there
was no increase seen in heart attacks or strokes.  Pfizer, the world’s  largest drugmaker , is racing three
biotechnology companies to sell the first pill in a decade for
 rheumatoid arthritis , which destroys joints in 1.3 million
Americans. The drug may post annual sales of $2 billion, said
 Tim Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in San
Francisco. Pfizer plans to complete four more studies in the
first half of next year before seeking U.S. clearance.  “We see the ability, with all of these studies, to get a
very broad label,” Fatenejad said in a telephone interview.
“This might be the first drug that is going for the original
filing with everything: signs and symptoms, quality of life, X-
ray data, and then really looking at the various types where the
drug could be used.”  Pfizer’s most recent finding, in the last of three phrases
of research usually needed for U.S. marketing approval, will be
reported Nov. 10 at the  American College of Rheumatology  meeting
in Atlanta. Revenue from tasocitinib may help offset Pfizer
losses when its  top-selling  Lipitor cholesterol pill, with $11.4
billion in annual sales, faces competition next year from
cheaper copies in the U.S.  Market Leaders  The rheumatoid arthritis market is dominated by three
injectable drugs known as anti-TNF treatments, which cost as
much as $20,000 a year and leave patients susceptible to
infections.  This includes Enbrel, which Pfizer gained in last year’s
$68 billion purchase of Wyeth, and is co-marketed with Thousand
Oaks, California-based  Amgen . The other two are Humira, sold by
Abbott Park, Illinois-based  Abbott Laboratories , and Remicade,
sold by New Brunswick, New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson  and
 Merck & Co. , of Whitehouse Station, New Jersey.  Tasocitinib is the most advanced pill in a family of
experimental treatments targeting a protein called JAK that
leads to joint destruction.  ‘Drug Works’  “Now we know the drug works, and we know the drug works as
a monotherapy, by itself,” said  Roy Fleischmann , the study’s
lead investigator and professor of internal medicine at the
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas, in a
telephone interview. “We also have a pretty good handle on the
safety profile, which has been consistent.”  Tasocitinib raised levels of LDL, often called bad
cholesterol because it is linked to heart disease, and increased
HDL, or good cholesterol, which lessens heart disease. The ratio
between the two, a measure used by some heart doctors to gauge
risk of disease, was unchanged. The elevation occurred early in
the course of treatment and didn’t increase over time, making it
easier to treat if necessary, Fleischmann said.  At the mid-point point in the study, the drug didn’t reach
one of its three goals, to increase a measure of disease
remission; the results were numerically positive, though not
statistically significant, the company said in a statement.  In the Pfizer study, 25 of 611 patients, or 4.1 percent,
reported serious adverse events during the six months. Among
them, 6 patients had serious infections. That’s “probably a
little bit better” than the anti-TNF drugs, though doctors and
patients would need to be vigilant, Fleischmann said.  Adverse Events  A 79-year-old woman with a history of heart disease and
diabetes died after developing diarrhea followed by renal
failure, according to the study.  Even if tasocitinib isn’t safer or more effective than
anti-TNF treatments in next year’s head-to-head tests, similar
results may help the pill win patients who don’t want regular
injections or are among the 20 percent to 40 percent who don’t
respond to anti-TNF drugs, Fatenejad said.  The three biotechnology companies developing JAK drugs are:
South San Francisco, California-based Rigel Pharmaceuticals
Inc., Incyte Corp. of Wilmington, Delaware, and Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. Pfizer’s pill is
the only one with results from the third and final stage of
tests generally needed for U.S. approval.  Slow to Adopt  Doctors may be slow to adopt new JAK drugs for patients who
are getting relief from older treatments, said  David Pisetsky ,
professor of rheumatology and immunology at Duke University
School of Medicine in Durham, North Carolina.  While high levels of bad cholesterol linked to tasocitinib
may be treatable, physicians may resist adding a drug to
patients’ daily treatment regimens.  “Because it’s a new mode of action, there’s great
interest, but what’s going to happen in terms of efficacy and
safety when you really put it out there?” Pisetsky said in a
telephone interview. “There’s always a difference between what
happens in a trial setting and what happens in real life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 