-- Qantas `Halo' Slips as Engine Issues Dent Reputation
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-11-08T07:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/qantas-halo-slips-as-engine-explosions-dent-safety-reputation.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. ’s safety image,
highlighted in the 1988 movie “Rain Man,” may be losing its
luster after two engine explosions in as many days.  The Australian airline today extended the grounding of its
Airbus SAS A380 fleet to a week after conducting checks in
response to an engine blowout that forced an emergency landing
in Singapore on Nov. 4. A  Boeing Co. 747  also returned to the
city-state a day later following an engine failure, prompting
Qantas shares to fall the most in almost a month.  Rolls-Royce
Group Plc  powerplants were involved in both incidents.  “There is a halo around Qantas because they attract the
best pilots and have a great record,” said  Ronald Bishop ,
senior lecturer in aviation at Central Queensland University in
Australia, who was a U.S. Air Force engineer for more than 20
years. “But, if there is a third incident, even if it’s a
fluke, people will stop flying them.”  Qantas Chief Executive Officer  Alan Joyce , 44, has
trumpeted the airline’s safety record as he seeks to allay
concerns that could persuade passengers to shun the carrier in
favor of  Singapore Airlines Ltd.  or Emirates Airline. Joyce has
also delayed services and hired aircraft from British Airways
Plc to cope with the withdrawal of the six A380s that account
for about 17 percent of international capacity.  Emergency Landings  The two emergency landings, which didn’t cause any
injuries, were “unrelated events,” according to Sydney-based
Qantas, nicknamed the “Flying Kangaroo” because of its logo.
The two engines were different models and they were last
serviced in different workshops, said spokeswoman  Olivia Wirth .
A Qantas facility in Melbourne handled the 747 engine, while
Deutsche Lufthansa AG’s maintenance arm in Germany worked on the
A380 powerplant.  Rolls-Royce’s Sydney-based spokesman Roger Hunt declined to
comment, citing an ongoing investigation.  The Australian Transport Safety Bureau is working with
Indonesian officials to search for a “crucial” part that
resembles a geared disk after the A380 engine blew up over Batam
Island in Indonesia last week. Engine parts recovered from the
area have been sent to Singapore and Rolls-Royce in the U.K. for
examination, the bureau said on its website.  Qantas  fell 2.1 percent to A$2.80 at the 4:10 p.m. close of
trading in Sydney. The stock has shed 6.4 percent this year,
more than triple the 1.9 percent decline in the benchmark S&P/ASX
200 index.  Rolls-Royce  plunged 9.7 percent in the past two
trading days in London.  Engine Checks  Checks undertaken on A380s since last week’s incident found
“oil where oil shouldn’t be” on three Rolls-Royce Trent 900
engines on separate aircraft, Joyce said today as he extended
the grounding for 72 hours. The powerplants are being removed as
Qantas tries to work out the cause of the issue and the planes
won’t fly until the carrier is satisfied they are safe, he said.  Singapore Air and Lufthansa, the only other carriers flying
Rolls-Royce-powered A380s, have resumed flights after conducting
checks recommended by Airbus and the London-based engine-maker.  Qantas, which has never had a fatal jetliner  accident , was
featured in the Oscar-winning movie “Rain Man,” when  Dustin Hoffman ’s character refused to fly with any other carrier. That
safety reputation may have meant that the Singapore emergencies
generated more publicity that they warranted, said portfolio
manager  Jason Teh . The Herald Sun, Australia’s bestselling
newspaper, dubbed Qantas the “falling kangaroo” in a  headline 
after the A380 incident.  Media Spotlight  “Any airline can have these issues,” said Teh, who helps
manage the equivalent of $3 billion at Investors Mutual Ltd. in
Sydney. “Qantas gets a great deal more media attention because
they have the perfect safety record.”  The two scares overshadowed Qantas’ 90th anniversary
celebrations, which it marked with a Nov. 5 open day at its
Sydney jet base. About 15,000 staff and family members attended
along with Hollywood star  John Travolta , who has promoted the
carrier since 2002.  The incidents may also disrupt Qantas’ plan to fly TV host
 Oprah Winfrey  and about 300 studio audience members to Australia
on an A380 next month to film episodes of her U.S. talk show.
Winfrey’s Harpo Productions Inc. is in talks with Qantas about
the trip, said  Don Halcombe , a spokesman.  Qantas closed a heavy-maintenance facility in Sydney in
2006 as part of a A$3 billion ($3 billion) cost-cutting plan.
Such moves could threaten standards and endanger Qantas’ safety
record, according to the carrier’s engineers union.  ‘Impressive Record’  “That impressive record relates to the past and you can’t
keep that record if you cut corners,” said  Steve Purvinas ,
federal secretary of the Australian Licensed Aircraft Engineers
Association, which has more than 2,000 members at Qantas.  Cost-cutting may also lead to the use of less experienced
pilots, which could also affect standards, said David Backhouse,
a Qantas A380 captain and vice president of the  Australian &
International Pilots Association , which about 2,500 pilots at
the carrier.  Joyce said on Nov. 5 that the A380 engine incident wasn’t a
maintenance issue. Instead, he said it was likely a materials
failure or a design flaw.  “Some of the claims that have been made are false and in
some cases completely outrageous,” Joyce told reporters. The
airline said it spends A$2 billion annually on maintenance and
has 5,000 engineers on staff.  Joyce, who founded Qantas’s  Jetstar budget unit , pledged
that “safety is our number one priority” when he took over as
chief executive about two years ago. The airline was then
tackling government orders to improve standards after at least
three incidents in a year.  Support for Qantas  One aircraft made an emergency landing in Manila in July,
2008 after an oxygen tank exploded, puncturing the plane’s
fuselage at 29,000 feet (8,800 meters). On another flight, 44
passengers were injured when an Airbus A330 abruptly lost
altitude because of a computer glitch. A third aircraft was
forced to return to Sydney due to a fluid leak in a wing.  The Australian government is supporting Qantas, with
Tourism Minister  Martin Ferguson , who helped persuade Winfrey to
bring her show to the country, saying it remained the
“preferred carrier” for the trip.  “Let’s get on with maintaining what is, historically, a
terrific safety record, from the point of view of the aviation
industry in Australia, whilst also making sure we welcome
Oprah,” he told reporters on Nov. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  