-- Trade Deficit Probably Shrank in September as Lower Dollar Helped Exports
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-11-07T04:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/trade-deficit-probably-shrank-in-september-as-lower-dollar-helped-exports.html
The trade deficit probably narrowed in
September as a weaker dollar boosted U.S.  exports , economists
said before a report this week.  The  gap  shrank to $45 billion from $46.3 billion the prior
month, according to the median of 57  estimates  in a Bloomberg
News survey ahead of Commerce Department figures Nov. 10.
Another report may show consumer confidence climbed in November.  A  flagging dollar  that is making American goods cheaper
overseas and a growing global economy mean manufacturers like
 Cummins Inc.  will see international sales climb. Foreign
products, in turn, are becoming more expensive for U.S. buyers,
signaling the trade deficit will keep decreasing and contribute
to the recovery for the first time in a year.  “U.S. exports are finding a market,” said  Guy LeBas ,
chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia. “We expect the trade gap to narrow into the
fourth quarter and provide a little tail wind for economic
growth.”  The deficit in August widened as growing U.S. demand for
foreign automobiles and capital equipment outpaced gains in
exports, the Commerce Department said last month.  After reaching a one-year high on June 7, the dollar
weakened 7.5 percent through the end of October against a  trade-
weighted basket  of currencies.  The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  gained 3.6 percent last
week as the Federal Reserve announced plans to buy $600 billion
in bonds and elections produced a divided Congress that’s
unlikely to pass further business reforms.  More Hiring  Last week also brought better news on the jobs front. A
Nov. 5 Labor Department report showed employment grew by 151,000
in October, the first gain since May. The jobless rate held at
9.6 percent, where it’s been since August.  Columbus, Indiana-based Cummins, a maker of diesel-truck
engines, is among companies seeing a pickup overseas.  “Our performance this year has clearly been better than we
had anticipated,”  Thomas Linebarger , the company’s chief
operating officer said during a teleconference with analysts on
Oct. 26. “Our business, especially in the emerging markets, has
come back much faster than we had forecast,” he said. “We
expect continued growth in our markets in China, India and
Brazil in 2011.”  Manufacturing unexpectedly expanded at a faster pace in
October as production and new orders picked up, a report from
the  Institute for Supply Management  showed last week. At the
same time, the group’s services  index , which covers about 90
percent of the economy, increased at the quickest pace in three
months.  Confidence Improving  Consumer confidence may also be increasing, economists said
ahead of a Nov. 12 report. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan’s preliminary household sentiment  index  rose to 69 in
November, the highest level since June, from 67.7 at the end of
October, according to the Bloomberg survey median. The gauge
averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the recession that
began in December 2007.  The improving numbers have come too late to prevent
Democrats from losing the House of Representatives in last
week’s elections. The economy was the top issue in the Nov. 2
midterm vote in which Republicans won a majority of seats in the
House and narrowed the Democratic majority in the Senate.  A Labor Department report on Nov. 10 may help explain some
of the discontent. The number of Americans applying for  jobless
benefits  last week fell to 450,000 from 457,000 the previous
week, according to the survey  median . The reading indicates
firings remain elevated and points to a labor market struggling
to improve.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  