-- Vettel Sends Formula One Championship to `Stressful' Decider in Abu Dhabi
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-11-08T02:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/red-bull-s-vettel-wins-brazilian-grand-prix-alonso-retains-overall-lead.html
It’s Abu Dhabi or bust for  Fernando Alonso  and his Formula One rivals.  Four men will fight out the drivers’ championship at next
week’s season-ending race after Alonso finished behind winner
 Sebastian Vettel  and Red Bull teammate  Mark Webber  at Sao
Paulo’s Interlagos circuit yesterday.  Ferrari’s Alonso will enter the Nov. 14 race in the United
Arab Emirates with an eight-point lead over Webber and 15-point
advantage over Vettel. McLaren’s  Lewis Hamilton , 24 points
behind Alonso, has an outside chance of winning the title. A
victory is worth 25 points.  “It’s very open,” Alonso, a two-time world champion, said
in a televised news conference. “We’ll need to be focused in
what will be a stressful weekend.”  Vettel and Webber, both seeking their first championship in
the elite auto-racing series, dominated the 71-lap race
yesterday after passing pole position-sitter  Nico Hulkenberg  of
Williams on the first lap.  While Alonso rose to third from fifth within seven laps,
the Spaniard couldn’t make up ground on the leaders until a
safety car was deployed when Force India’s  Vitantonio Liuzzi 
smashed into a crash barrier on lap 51.  “Red Bull was far away,” said Alonso, 29, who won the
series with Renault in 2005 and 2006. “It was a lonely race,
trying to make up ground.”  Vettel, a 23-year-old German, eventually won by 4.2 seconds,
while Alonso was 2.6 seconds behind Webber. Hamilton, 8 seconds
further back in fourth, said he was powerless in his pursuit.  Speed Struggle  “You can’t win with a car that’s not fast enough,”
Hamilton, the 2008 champion, told reporters. “I was even
struggling to overtake the back-markers in a straight line.”  McLaren’s  Jenson Button , last year’s champion with the
Brawn team, finished fifth and can no longer retain the title.  “Lewis can still win the world championship, but the top
three drivers will have to fare badly for it to happen,” said
Button, whose chauffeur-driven car sped away after being
approached near the circuit by armed muggers two days ago. “I’m
out of it now.”  The Sao Paulo racetrack, which decided the last five
drivers’ championships, yesterday resolved the constructors’
title as Red Bull took an unassailable lead over McLaren.  It’s the first title for the Milton Keynes, England-based
team since energy drink maker Red Bull GmbH bought it from Ford
Motor Co.’s Jaguar Racing in 2004. Team staff jumped for joy in
the pit-lane as the race finished.  ‘Party Team’  Red Bull has spent $675 million on the team, according to
the accounts of Red Bull Technology Ltd. That’s helped it
compete with Ferrari and McLaren, the oldest existing squads.  “In six years this team has come from a team that no-one
took seriously, that everyone thought was a party team, to the
2010 Formula One constructors’ champions,” Red Bull Team
Principal Christian Horner said in a statement. “We finished
ahead of teams with far more experience and heritage than
ourselves, we took them on and we won.”  Webber, 34, said he can top off the season in Abu Dhabi.
The Australian relinquished the championship lead to Alonso when
he crashed into a wall two weeks ago in South Korea.  “I still have a big, big chance to pull it off,” Webber
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  