-- Referendum Dispute in Sudan's Abeyei Region Threatening U.S.-Led Peace
-- B y   A l a n   B o s w e l l
-- 2010-11-08T08:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/referendum-dispute-in-sudan-s-abyei-region-threatens-u-s-brokered-peace.html
Sudan’s border region of Abyei is
bracing for conflict as a deadlock over a referendum to decide
the area’s status is straining a U.S.-brokered peace agreement
in 2005 that ended Africa’s longest-running civil war.  Abyei’s residents are scheduled to decide in a Jan. 9
plebiscite whether to join Sudan’s north or south. The ballot is
now in jeopardy, with President  Umar al-Bashir ’s government in
Khartoum, the capital, and the former rebels of the  Sudan
People’s Liberation Movement  in the south, unable to agree on
who can vote.  The ethnic Ngok Dinka inhabitants of Abyei, who regard
themselves as southerners, have vowed to block the seasonal
migration of government-backed Misseriya cattle herders from the
north unless there’s a settlement on the referendum, said Kuol
Deng Kuol, paramount chief of the nine Ngok Dinka chiefdoms in
the area.  “For those coming with their cattle, we need them to
accept our rights. If not, we cannot agree for them to come,”
Kuol said in an interview in Abyei town on Oct. 30. “If they
come by force, we will defend ourselves.”  Clashes two years ago between the armies of northern and
southern Sudan killed 89 people and forced more than 90,000
people to flee their homes, according to the  United Nations .  Abyei was given “special administrative status” and
promised the plebiscite as part of the  peace agreement , which
ended a 21-year civil war that killed about 2 million people.
The oil-producing region of Southern Sudan, which the SPLM now
governs, is also due to vote in a separate ballot the same day
on whether to become an independent nation.  Behind Schedule  Preparations for that plebiscite are also behind schedule,
with registration, which was due to produce an initial voters’
roll by the end of August, now set to start this month.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  has put forward proposals for
negotiations between the government and the SPLM, Senate Foreign
Relations Committee Chairman  John Kerry  told reporters in
Khartoum yesterday.  “We do have thoughts in terms of Abyei,” Kerry said.
“President Obama has offered a road map for how to move forward
and we have offered some new thoughts on how to resolve Abyei.”  Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat, told the Sudanese
government that the U.S. is willing to accelerate the removal of
Sudan from its list of state sponsors of terrorism as soon as
July 2011 if the peace agreement is fully implemented, a State
Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, told
reporters on a conference call today.  Permanent Residents  The Misseriya, backed by al-Bashir’s National Congress
Party, say that they, as seasonal inhabitants of Abyei, also
should have the right to vote in the referendum. The SPLM and
the Ngok Dinka say that only permanent residents should be
eligible.  “The fight for Abyei remains fervent,” the  Brussels-based 
International Crisis Group said in a September report. “The
area’s two principal ethnic groups are important constituencies
that neither the NCP nor the SPLM can afford to alienate.”  Pagan Amum , the secretary-general of the SPLM, last week
accused al-Bashir’s government of holding Abyei “hostage.”  The  Permanent Court of Arbitration  in the Hague, in a
ruling last year, set Abyei’s borders to the immediate area
around Ngok Dinka settlements, largely excluding the Misseriya.  ‘Easily Deteriorate’  Residents say the mood is tense in Abyei town and that most
of the northern traders in the central market have left in
recent weeks with their families.  “The situation in Abyei could easily deteriorate and lead
to more conflict without a concerted effort to protect civilians
and defuse tensions on the ground,” Rona Peligal, Africa
director at New York-based  Human Rights Watch , said in a Sept.
22 statement.  This year’s dry-season Misseriya migration southward began
last month as nine days of U.S.-mediated talks in Ethiopia’s
capital, Addis Ababa, over who is eligible to vote in Abyei
failed to reach agreement. The next round of negotiations will
be led by former South African President  Thabo Mbeki .  Rou Manyiel, the 41-year-old head of a coalition of 12
groups known as the Abyei Civil Society Organizations, who met
with Mbeki in Khartoum last week, said he didn’t expect a
breakthrough in the negotiations.  ‘War Talk’  “My time in Khartoum told me that we should prepare for
war,” he said in an Oct. 31 interview in Abyei.  The deputy chief administrator of Abyei, Rahma El Nour, a
Misseriya, said he didn’t foresee problems with the migration
this year. A conference in Abyei will be called soon to set the
grazing routes, he said by phone on Nov. 2 from Khartoum.  “The referendum and war are the talk of politicians,” he
said.  The arbitration court’s ruling set key oil fields,
including Heglig and Bamboo, outside of the Abyei region. Only
Diffra, which pumps 3,000 barrels of oil a day, sits within the
area. The fields are run by the Greater Nile Petroleum Operating
Co., which is 40 percent owned by Beijing-based  China National
Petroleum Corp .  Most of Sudan’s oil is pumped in the south. Sudan’s daily
output of 490,000 barrels makes it sub-Saharan Africa’s third-
largest producer of crude, according to the  BP Statistical
Review of World Energy .  Comprehensive Package  The SPLM is preparing to offer al-Bashir’s government a
comprehensive package to reach an agreement on all outstanding
issues, Amum said last week. They include the regions’
responsibility for foreign debt and how to share Sudan’s oil
production. Currently, both sides split the revenue from the
southern crude sales.  “We fear that we will be going back to war, but we don’t
know when,” said Atoch Deng, who lost all her possessions
during the violence in 2008 and now sells tea in Abyei’s central
market. “War is now a normal thing here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Boswell  in Abyei via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 