-- Republicans Are Poised to Increase U.S. House Gains in Undecided Contests
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 2010-11-08T05:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/republicans-poised-to-widen-gains-in-house-as-nine-races-remain-undecided.html
Republicans may increase their
control of the U.S. House that will be installed in January by
picking up seats among nine Democratic-held districts where the
outcome remains in doubt.  Just hundreds of votes separate the candidates in some of
the undecided races, according to the Associated Press. Also,
the re-election of Representative  Tim Bishop , a four-term
Democrat from New York’s Long Island, was thrown into doubt
after a fresh count of ballots, according to Republican
challenger  Randy Altschuler .  Republicans gained at least 60 seats in the House in the
Nov. 2 election, the biggest swing in the party’s favor since
1938.  “It’s expected that Republicans will hold on and pick up a
total of 63 or 64 seats, though recounts can occasionally
produce a surprise,” said  Larry Sabato , director of the
University of Virginia’s Center for Politics.  Republicans also picked up six seats in the Senate,
trimming the Democrats’ control to 53-47.  Democratic incumbents suffered from voter concerns about
the growth of the federal government and an economy that has yet
to recover fully from the recession that began under President
 George W. Bush , a Republican.  Cutting Spending  Republicans including Representative  Eric Cantor  of
Virginia, the party’s second highest leader in the House, have
said the election results signify support for cutting government
spending and rolling back the health-care overhaul signed by
Democratic President  Barack Obama .  Additional gains for Republicans in some of the undecided
contests are to be expected, said  Jennifer Duffy , political
analyst at the  Cook Political Report,  a Washington-based
publication that tracks political races.  “Given how historic Democrats’ losses in the House were
last week, nothing about this list is surprising,” she said in
an e-mail.  In California, Representative  Jerry McNerney , a Democrat
elected four years ago when his party won control of the House
and Senate, leads by 421 votes, or 0.2 percent, according to
 preliminary tallies  released by the California Secretary of
State.  Democratic incumbent  Jim Costa , who represents part of
California’s San Joaquin Valley, is trailing challenger Andy
Vidak by less than two percentage points, according to the AP.  There are similar close races in Illinois, Texas, Kentucky,
Virginia, Washington and New York, the AP reported.  New York Race  New York Representative  Daniel Maffei , whose district
includes Syracuse, is lagging behind Republican challenger Anne
Marie Buerkle in another tight race.  In New York’s Suffolk County, where Democrat Bishop
initially led by 3,400 votes, Altschuler had a 392-vote lead
after election officials took a closer look at the results, the
Republican said on his Facebook page. Altschuler also said that
more than 9,000 absentee and military ballots have yet to be
counted.  “Our effort will not conclude until each and every vote is
counted,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Selway  in San Francisco at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net 
 Alison Fitzgerald  in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Tackett at   mtackett@bloomberg.net  