-- Rongsheng, Planning Hong Kong IPO, Expects Rising Profit on China's Growth
-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 2010-11-07T09:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/rongsheng-planning-hong-kong-ipo-expects-rising-profit-on-china-s-growth.html
China Rongsheng Heavy Industries , the
nation’s second-biggest shipbuilder, said domestic economic
growth and government support will boost profit.  “The future of shipbuilding is upbeat as the global
economy is recovering stably,” Chief Executive Officer Chen
Qiang said in Hong Kong today via a video conference. “The
overall development of China’s economy has brought the industry
a lot of opportunities.”  Rongsheng is seeking to raise as much as $2.3 billion
selling 1.75 billion shares at HK$7.30 to HK$10.10 in an initial
public offering this year. The shipbuilder intends to use the
proceeds for projects including a fourth drydock, as a rebound
in world trade following last year’s global recession revives
demand for ships.  “There are strong investor interests,” said  David Suen , a
Hong Kong-based managing director at  JPMorgan Chase  & Co.’s
equity capital markets. “The shipping industry is rebounding.
New orders and delayed orders are resuming.” The bank is one of
the arrangers for the sale.  Best Investment Corp,  China National Offshore Oil Corp. ,
 China Life Insurance (Group) Co. , China Southern Fund Management
Co., Atlantis Investment Management Ltd., Bondic International
Holdings Ltd. and Chow Tai Fok Nominee Ltd. have agreed to buy a
combined $285 million of Rongsheng shares, according to the
prospectus.  The stock will start trading on Nov. 19, it said in a
statement.  Capacity Concern  Global ship deliveries in the past quarter may bring
overcapacity which, combined with signs economic recovery in the
U.S. and Europe might weaken, could damp cargo volumes and rates
this quarter, analysts said.  Rongsheng is “confident” of raising profit levels and
margins by boosting production capacity and implementing
technology improvements and cost controls, Chief Financial
Officer Sean Wang said at the same conference.  The company forecasts net profit of at least 1.61 billion
yuan ($242 million) this year, and will receive a total of 830
million yuan in 2010 subsidies, according to its prospectus.  Rongsheng expects higher sales in China to boost yuan-
denominated revenue, which now accounts for 11 percent of total
earnings, Wang said. The company is in talks with banks on
currency hedging, he said.  Orders as of Sept 30 included 84 vessels of a combined 15.1
million deadweight tons, a press release said. Its orders for
so-called very large ore carriers of more than 300,000
deadweight tons accounted for about a quarter of global orders.  Rongsheng said it plans to use a quarter of the IPO funds
for shipbuilding and offshore engineering and another quarter to
repay about HK$2.9 billion ($374 million) of borrowings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  