-- Siemens Close to Signing Electric-Car Charging Contract in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-08T09:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/siemens-close-to-signing-electric-vehicle-infrastruture-contract-in-china.html
Siemens AG , Europe’s largest
engineering company, said it is close to signing a contract to
supply a Chinese city with electric-vehicle charging
infrastructure.  The company expects to complete a deal this month to
provide customized charging posts for one city,  Song Xiao , the
Shanghai-based president of Siemens China Smart Grid, said in an
interview in Shenzhen, China on Nov. 6. He declined to name the
city as the deal hasn’t yet been approved by the government.  Siemens will install the chargers in the city within three
months, Song said. The Munich-based company has talked with
Chinese utility companies and cities including Shanghai,
Guangzhou and Chongqing about providing charging infrastructure,
he said.  Siemens, whose businesses include high-speed trains,
medical equipment and power turbines, is seeking to provide
electric-vehicle charging and components for automakers such as
 General Motor Co.,   Nissan Motor Co.  and  Volkswagen AG  in the
world’s biggest auto market. China is offering buyers of plug-in
hybrids and pure electric cars subsidies of as much as 60,000
yuan ($9,000) to help cut pollution and reduce oil dependency.  Shares  in Siemens rose 1.1 percent to 84.84 euros as of
9.43 a.m in Frankfurt trading. The stock has risen 32 percent in
2010.  Electric Vehicle Components  Siemens said it is also in discussions with domestic and
foreign automakers in China to provide components for electric
cars, said  Cheng Mei-Wei , chief executive officer of Siemens
Northeast Asia.  The electric-vehicle industry will provide “multi-billion
dollars of opportunity” to companies such as Siemens, said
Cheng, who joined the Munich-based engineer from  Ford Motor Co. 
in May.  Siemens said on Nov. 6 it won a contract to provide
information technology and service support to London’s planned
electric-vehicle charging network through November 2013.  The company’s electric vehicle-related businesses include
supplying batteries and other components, charging
infrastructure, as well as grid-management expertise, Cheng said.  Automakers are under pressure from governments,
environmental groups and consumers to sell models that consume
less gasoline and emit fewer gases linked to global warming.
China’s government aims to subsidize at least 4 million of these
cars by 2012.  China’s government may invest more than 100 billion yuan in
alternative-energy vehicles during the next 10 years to boost
the industry, the Shanghai Securities News said in August
without saying how it obtained the information.  Siemens’ Cheng, based in Beijing, declined to provide sales
or profit targets for  Siemens  in China.  “China’s one of the largest markets for any industry
sector and it has the highest growth rate for any market,”
Cheng said. “When you add the size of the market to the speed
of the growth, it becomes very, very important.”  -- Liza Lin . Editors:  Kae Inoue ,  Ian Rowley .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Hong Kong at +86-21-6104-7010 or
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  