-- Sinochem Yields Approach Dow Chemical's as M&A Wins Support: China Credit
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-11-08T07:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/sinochem-yields-approach-dow-chemical-s-as-m-a-wins-support-china-credit.html
Sinochem Group, China’s biggest
provider of chemicals products, sold 30-year bonds at yields
approaching those of America’s Dow Chemical Co. as investors
showed confidence in its push to expand globally through
acquisitions.  The state-controlled firm issued $500 million of 6.3
percent securities due November 2040 to yield 228 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries in the U.S. on Nov. 4. The
9.4 percent debentures maturing May 2039 of Dow, the world’s
second-biggest chemicals maker, traded at a spread of 212 basis
points as the Beijing-based company sold bonds, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  “Huge money flows coming into emerging markets such as
China are making it possible for companies to sell debt at lower
spreads,” said  Kenneth Akintewe , who helps oversee $261 billion
of global assets at Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd. in
Singapore. “It’s also a reflection of investors being more
comfortable taking on China risk.”  Falling borrowing costs enable the nation’s companies to be
more competitive when acquiring global resources essential for
sustaining expansion in an economy that’s averaged 10 percent
annual growth for a decade. Sinochem, whose debt is rated two
levels above Dow’s by Moody’s Investors Service, has made three
acquisitions since May, including an offshore oilfield in Brazil.
It failed in attempts to purchase assets in Canada and Australia.  Bond Demand  Sinochem’s $2 billion sale, including the first 30-year
debt offered by China since 2003, drew orders for $7.85 billion,
according to Citigroup Inc., which led banks including HSBC
Holdings Plc and UBS AG that underwrote the sale. The company
also sold $1.5 billion of 4.5 percent 10-year notes to yield 208
basis points more than Treasuries.  Long-term borrowing costs for companies in the world’s
second-largest economy have dropped faster than for firms in the
U.S. The spread on Chinese corporate bonds with tenors of more
than 15 years has narrowed 78 basis points since June to 38
basis points, compared with a 20 basis-point decline for U.S.
company debt of similar maturity to 198, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show.  Moody’s said last month that it may raise its A1 credit
rating for China, after trade surpluses swelled the nation’s
currency reserves to a record $2.65 trillion. The U.S. Federal
Reserve last week announced a plan to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries in an effort to slash unemployment and avert
deflation.  Default Swaps  Five-year credit-default swap contracts on China’s bonds
fell 6.8 basis points last week 53.5 basis points and 20 basis
points this year, CMA prices in New York show. That compares
with 42 for U.S. government debt.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to debt agreements. Government debt
investors usually buy the contracts to hedge against a rise in
yields. A basis point on a contract insuring $10 million of debt
for five years is equivalent to $1,000 annually.  The yuan fell 0.2 percent today to 6.6686 per dollar as of
3:41 p.m. in Shanghai and has strengthened by 2.3 percent since
China ended a two-year peg to the dollar on June 19. Non-
deliverable forwards show traders are betting on a 3 percent
gain in the coming 12 months. The  Dollar Index , a gauge of the
greenback’s strength that is traded on ICE Futures in New York,
has lost 1.3 percent this year and sank to an 11-month low on
Nov. 4.  Bond Terms  China has  four  dollar-denominated debt issues outstanding,
forcing investors to buy state-owned companies to gain exposure
to sovereign risk. The bonds sold last week included a proviso
that the government’s stake in the Sinochem unit guaranteeing
the notes won’t fall below 50.1 percent, according to Citigroup.  China’s  dollar debt has returned 8 percent this year, the
least of the so-called BRIC nations, compared with 11 percent in
 Russia  and 14 percent in  Brazil , JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes
show. India hasn’t sold any dollar bonds.  The three-month  London interbank offered rate  for dollars,
or Libor, the most widely-used measure of bank lending costs,
was at 0.28563 percent on Nov. 5, down from 5.725 percent in
2007 before global credit markets seized up, according to data
from the British Bankers’ Association.  ‘Cheap’ Funding  “Dollar funding is cheap and if you have some specific
need, now is the time to lock some in,”  Wai Ho Leong , a
regional economist at Barclays Plc in Singapore, said in a
telephone interview. “I’m sure it’s to meet a specific need
such as expansion abroad as you wouldn’t want to raise funds
just to park it in your portfolio.”  The three-month Shanghai interbank offered rate for yuan
loans climbed 24 basis points in the past month to 2.844 percent
as of 3: 29 p.m. in Shanghai. The yield on the 3.28 percent
yuan-denominated government bond due August 2020 has risen 19
basis points over the past week to 3.8 percent as of 3:35 p.m.
in Shanghai, Interbank Funding Center data show.  Sinochem sold 30-year bonds at a narrower spread than
India’s biggest company by market value. Reliance Industries
Ltd., rated Baa2, paid a 240 basis-point spread last month when
it issued $500 million of 6.25 percent 30-year notes.  Dow, based in Midland, Michigan, has seen its ratings
 lowered  five times by Moody’s since 1994 to Baa3, the lowest
investment-grade, from A1, the fifth-highest, because of
asbestos claims and higher costs. In 1991, Dow sold $300 million
of 9 percent 30-year notes due April 2021 at a yield of 88 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries.  Potash, Nufarm  Sinochem failed in its bid to acquire Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. earlier this year, and was also unsuccessful
last year in an attempt to buy Nufarm Ltd., Australia’s largest
farm chemicals supplier. Hu Hongjun, a spokesman for Beijing-
based Sinochem, declined to provide additional details on the
bond sale when contacted by phone.  The last issuer to sell 30-year debt was state-owned Cnooc
Ltd., the nation’s biggest offshore oil explorer. In 2003, it
issued $300 million of 5.5 percent securities due May 2033,
Bloomberg data show.  Elsewhere in China credit markets, the Export-Import Bank
of China plans to sell as much as 5 billion yuan of bonds in
Hong Kong, according to a statement from the company today. The
bank will sell three-year bonds to individual investors to yield
2.65 percent, the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  