-- Standard Chartered Rights Offering Is 98.5% Subscribed
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2010-11-07T22:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/standard-chartered-says-5-3-billion-rights-offering-is-98-5-subscribed.html
Standard Chartered Plc  said about
98.5 percent of its rights offering was subscribed, enabling the
U.K. bank to raise 3.29 billion pounds ($5.3 billion) as it
seeks to hold more capital and increase lending.  London-based Standard Chartered received valid acceptances
for 256.7 million new ordinary shares, it said in an e-mailed
statement today. It’s offering one new share at 1,280 pence for
every eight that investors already own.  The joint bookrunners -- JPMorgan Cazenove, Goldman Sachs
International, UBS Investment Bank and Standard Chartered
Securities (Hong Kong) Ltd. -- will seek buyers for the rest of
the shares on offer, the bank said in the statement.  Standard Chartered last month announced the offering to
increase its capital as banking regulators introduce tougher
minimum standards for lenders. Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s
largest bank, the same month raised 10.2 billion euros ($14.3
billion) in a rights offering, in part to boost capital.  Standard Chartered rose 0.5 percent at 1,950 pence in
London trading on Nov. 5. The stock has surged 29 percent this
year.  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Sands  last month said the
money raised “is not a war chest for acquisitions.”  He said Oct. 13 the share sale will increase the lender’s
core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, by
two percentage points to more than 10 percent. The offering will
enable Standard Chartered to increase lending and so-called
risk-weighted assets, while maintaining sufficient capital under
future regulation, the bank said last month.  JPMorgan Cazenove, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG are
managing the share sale.  Lenders are raising surplus capital as regulators weigh
whether to require the largest banks to hold more capital than
the minimum agreed to by international regulators in Basel in
September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Martin  in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Livesey at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net . 