-- STX Plans IPOs for Cruise-Ship Builder, China Yard
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2010-11-08T11:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/stx-group-plans-ipos-for-cruise-ship-builder-china-yard-as-orders-rebound.html
STX Group , the Korean shipbuilder
that sold stock in an offshore-vessel unit last week, may hold
initial public offerings for a Chinese yard and a cruise-ship
maker as orders recover from the global recession.  “We want to be in the market when momentum is starting to
build, not when the industry is at a peak,” Vice Chairman Lee Jong Chul said in an interview in  Seoul . “That way, we can more
easily show investors what improvements can be expected.”  The Chinese yard may sell shares in the second half of next
year as increasing production of dry-bulk vessels and drill-
ships puts it on course to end losses, Lee said. The IPO for the
European ocean-liner unit, builder of the world’s largest cruise
ship, may take place around early 2012, as rising wages in  Asia 
stoke leisure travel, Lee said.  “The number of people in Asia taking vacations on  cruise
ships  has increased drastically in the past year,” he said.
“This should lead to orders.”  STX OSV Holdings Ltd. (SOH) , which makes offshore vessels that
support operations on oil rigs, may win about $3 billion worth
of contracts this year, about quadruple last year’s tally, Lee
said. That would give it a backlog equivalent to 18 months’ work,
he said. An order from  Brazil  for eight vessels may be signed by
year-end, he said, without elaborating.  The unit, based in Alesund,  Norway , last week raised
S$257.3 million ($200 million) in a Singapore initial public
offering after pricing shares at the bottom of a range offered
to investors.  STX Corp. (011810) , STX Group’s holding company, and  STX
Offshore & Shipbuilding Co. (067250) , the biggest shareholder in STX OSV,
both plunged more than 10 percent in Seoul trading on Nov. 5
after the sale price was announced.  Today, STX Offshore gained 2.5 percent to 24,500 won at the
close. STX Corp. advanced 1.9 percent to 29,050 won.  China Shipyard  STX’s shipyard in  Dalian , northeastern  China , which began
production in 2008, may break even next year, Lee said. The yard
is expected to build 20 vessels this year and 30 in 2011, Lee
said. Production may reach 50 ships in 2013, he said. The unit
will probably sell shares in  Hong Kong  or Singapore, Lee said.  In August, the yard won a $250 million contract to build a
drill ship from Noble Drilling Holding LLC. The order was the
first worldwide this year for such a vessel, according to  STX .  The shipyard delivered its first vessel in 2009, two years
after STX said it planned to spend $2 billion constructing a
complex for building ships, offshore structures and marine
engines. The unit had an order backlog of 4.38 million
deadweight tons, or 74 vessels, at the end of September,
according to London-based  Clarkson Plc , the world’s largest
shipbroker.  The cruise-ship builder, which has yards in Finland and
France, last month delivered the Allure of the Seas, the world’s
largest liner, to Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. The ship can
accommodate 6,360 passengers, according to a  statement . The
company also announced a 240 million euro ($340 million) order
for a cruise-ferry from Viking Line ABP on Oct. 25.  STX Group acquired the cruise-ship and offshore yards
through the takeover of Aker Yards ASA, which was completed in
February, 2009. Aker was subsequently renamed STX Europe ASA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  