-- Sudan Signs 10 Gold, Iron Mining Exploration Agreements, Minister Says
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-11-07T14:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/sudan-signs-10-gold-iron-mining-exploration-agreements-minister-says.html
Sudan signed 10 agreements for gold
and iron mining today, as the African nation plans to more than
double its gold output to 50 metric tons next year.  “These 10 agreements take the total number of mining
agreements signed this year to 45,” Mining Minister Abdel Baqi
al-Jailani said in an interview in Khartoum, Sudan’s capital,
after the signing ceremony.  Four of the agreements were signed with international
companies including Toro East Africa Ltd., the Sudan branch of
the Guernsey-based Toro Gold Ltd., and India’s Orbit for Multi
Activities Co. Ltd., an offshoot of Rika Global Impex Ltd.,
based in Mumbai, according to a statement handed to reporters.
The agreements grant the companies exploration rights in the
states of Northern Kordofan, Al-Shamaliya, Nahr al-Nil and the
Red Sea, which are all located in the north of the country.  Sudan, which relies on oil exports for most of its foreign
currency earnings, plans to diversify its economy and expand
into gold mining and agriculture in the country’s north as the
oil-rich region of Southern Sudan prepares for an independence
vote in January, Finance Minister Ali Mahmoud Abdel Rasoul said
last month.  Sudan is sub-Saharan Africa’s third-biggest crude producer,
pumping about 490,000 barrels a day, according to the BP
Statistical Review of World Energy. Most of the oil is pumped in
Southern Sudan.  Sudan expects to sign five more mining agreements before
the end of 2010, and to sign 50 agreements in 2011 as it is
experiencing “a rush” from foreign companies for gold
exploration, including from Australia, Europe and the U.S., al-
Jailani said, without providing details.  New Concessions  Sudan will offer new concessions next year for gold
exploration in locations that include Sudan’s western region of
Darfur, al-Jailani said.  Over 200,000 of Sudan’s artisanal miners, who camp in arid
land in search for gold, have produced 23 metric tons of gold
between January and October this year, al-Jailani said.  Sudan’s central bank will regulate exports of the metal by
buying gold from the individual miners, Central Bank Governor
 Sabir Hassan  said Oct. 26.  While gold “is stealing the show,” Sudan is also rich
with other base metals including silver, lead, zinc, copper,
iron and barium, al-Jailani said.  Governments in regional countries including Ethiopia,
Eritrea, Sudan and Egypt are starting to attract foreign
investors as they revise their mining laws, Howard Bills, Toro
Gold group exploration manager said in an interview today in
Khartoum.  “There’s huge potential,” Bills said.  The independence referendum is a key component of a 2005
peace agreement which ended a two-decade civil war between
Sudan’s Muslim north and the south, where Christianity and
animist beliefs dominate.  Sudan’s north and south haven’t agreed on post-referendum
arrangements such as responsibility for foreign debt and how to
share the nation’s oil wealth. Both sides currently split
revenue from oil pumped in the south.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 