-- Swedish Police Arrest Suspect in Wave of Fatal Anti-Immigrant Shootings
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2010-11-07T16:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/swedish-police-arrest-suspect-in-wave-of-fatal-anti-immigrant-shootings.html
Swedish police investigating the
shootings of immigrants in the southern city of Malmoe arrested
a man on suspicion of murder.  The 38-year-old was detained at about 6:30 p.m. yesterday on
an arrest warrant, Chief Public Prosecutor Solveig Wollstad said
today at a news conference in Malmoe. She said the suspect
denies involvement in the attacks.  Malmoe has had about 50 shootings since October last year,
of which some 15 lacked any clear motive, police said Oct. 23.
During the investigation, police warned people who didn’t look
like ethnic Swedes about being out at night. A woman who was
shot dead Oct. 10 last year wasn’t an immigrant, though she was
in the company of a man of non-Swedish descent. He was
critically injured.  “Some findings were made during a search of the suspect’s
house that support the suspicions,” Wollstad said. “He is on
probable cause, suspected of murder on Oct. 10, and attempted
murder in seven cases.”  The detained man holds licenses for two weapons, police
Superintendent Boerje Sjoeholm said.  Officials said the arrest was made after information was
received from the public. No details of the suspect or any
potential motive were given. The prosecutor must decide by
Nov. 9 whether to ask a court for authority to keep the suspect
in custody.  ‘Laserman’  About 40 percent of the city’s population of 300,000 are
immigrants, or have two parents born outside of Sweden, Malmoe
City estimates.  The shooting spree revived memories of similar attacks two
decades ago and fanned fears of anti-immigrant sentiment in
Sweden, where an anti-immigration party won seats in parliament
in September’s election. The so-called Laserman killed one
person and shot at 10 others in Stockholm during six months in
1991 and 1992. All of the victims had dark hair or skin color.
John Ausonius, who used a gun with a laser sight, was sentenced
to life in prison in 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janina Pfalzer  in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net . 