-- Sydney Opera House Luxury Home Auction Challenges Bubble Fears
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-11-08T12:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/sydney-opera-house-luxury-home-auction-challenges-australia-bubble-fears.html
An auction of Australian luxury homes
held at the  Sydney Opera House  raised A$4.1 million ($4.1
million), less than the A$30 million of properties that were put
up for sale, less than a week after borrowing costs increased.  Only two out of the 11 homes on offer were sold. The  Ray
White Group , which organized the auction today, is in talks with
potential buyers and expects to sell three more properties in
“the next couple of days,” Chairman Brian White said in an
interview after the event.  The auction was a test of demand for a housing market the
International Monetary Fund said may be overvalued by as much as
15 percent. The event took place less than a week after the
Reserve Bank of Australia raised its benchmark interest rate by
a quarter of a percentage point to 4.75 percent and said it
welcomed a cooling in house prices.  “We’ve been a little bit crash-tackled by the interest
rate increase last week,” White said. “The Reserve Bank seemed
to give the indication that they were keen to keep the lid on
prices, and that’s not what buyers want to hear. That’s a very
bearish sentiment.”  White said he had hoped to sell at least five of 11 houses
at the auction. The properties included 10 homes in New South
Wales, five of which are in Sydney, the organizer said. The
houses are valued at between A$2 million and A$10 million each.  Regular Auctions  The auction was organized as more sellers were putting
prime properties up for sale compared with the first quarter,
according to Ray White, the biggest property broker in Australia
and New Zealand. The company plans to hold an auction every
November and March.  The two properties sold at the auction were a A$2.55
million  river -front development in Birdwood, 400 kilometers (250
miles) north of Sydney, and a A$1.56 million  country home  in
Mittagong, a town in the Southern Highlands of New South Wales.  The properties were marketed in Australia and Asia and drew
interest from bidders based in Singapore, China and Indonesia,
the organizer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 