-- Erdogan Seeks Re-Election as Turkish Health-Care Plan Trumps Headscarves
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2010-11-07T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/turkey-s-erdogan-seeks-re-election-as-health-care-plan-trumps-headscarves.html
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
is pushing out a nationwide system of personal healthcare that
may win him more votes in next year’s election than all his rows
with Turkey’s secular-minded generals.  Next month Erdogan’s government says it will complete a
network of family doctors -- one for every 3,500 Turks. That’s a
first for the European Union membership candidate where  infant
mortality  is 17 in a thousand, the highest in the 33-nation
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  The overhaul is the latest step in a drive toward  universal
healthcare  that has won record approval ratings. It’s key to
Erdogan’s bid to win a third term, explaining his willingness to
stretch the budget as medical spending is set to rise five times
faster than overall costs next year. The World Bank says outlays
are manageable, and pollsters say the benefits they buy matter
more to most Turks than Erdogan’s bid to rein in the military
and ease curbs on religious symbols such as the headscarf.  “Voters aren’t particularly moved by the ideological
debates, it’s not what they talk about on the street,” said
 Adil Gur , head of Istanbul-based polling company A&G Arastirma,
which correctly predicted the outcome of the last three
elections. “There are very few developing countries that have
done what Turkey has in terms of healthcare and it has a direct
relationship to voting.”  Erdogan, 56, was re-elected in 2007 with the biggest
majority in 40 years, after a series of clashes with the army
and courts, which say measures such as the easing of a ban on
Islamic-style headscarves undermine Turkey’s secular system.  Unequal Benefits  Health reforms have been central to Erdogan’s second term.
He unified three systems of hospitals and insurance for
different professions that were criticized for offering unequal
benefits and reserving the  best hospitals  for civil servants
while others waited in long queues.  Approval of the system rose to 65 percent in 2009 from 56
percent in 2005, according to the state statistics agency’s
annual Life Satisfaction Survey. Turks consistently cite health
as the government’s most important achievement, and health chief
 Recep Akdag  as one of the Cabinet’s most successful ministers,
studies by pollsters A&G and Ankara-based MetroPOLL show.  Erdogan’s government ended restrictions on the
pharmaceuticals market and let Turks use their state benefits at
private hospitals. The measures have drawn investment from
funds, including Carlyle Group, the world’s No. 2 private equity
firm, which bought 40 percent of hospital operator Medical Park
Saglik Grubu AS for an undisclosed price last year.  Dubai-based Abraaj Capital Ltd., a private-equity firm that
manages $6.6 billion, bought 54 percent of hospital chain
 Acibadem Saglik Hizmetleri & Ticaret AS  for $606 million in 2007
and 2008. Acibadem shares have surged 4,500 percent since 2002
and the benchmark ISE-100 Index increased about sixfold.  Green Cards  Erdogan has given Green Cards guaranteeing free treatment
to more than 9 million poorer Turks. The Health Ministry says
infant and maternal mortality have  fallen , and measles and
malaria have been all but eradicated.  “The health status of the Turkish population today is
hugely better than it was,”  Ulrich Zachau , director of the
World Bank’s Turkey unit, said in an interview.  The measures aren’t cheap. The Health Ministry budget is
due to increase 24 percent next year to 17.2 billion liras
($12.2 billion), while overall spending climbs 5 percent.  The social security fund, which pays pensions and medical
benefits, is owed contributions of 47 billion liras, its head
Emin Zararsiz said on Oct. 16. Transfers to the fund will rise
11 percent to 62.4 billion liras next year, one-fifth of the
budget. Spending on Green Cards has risen eightfold since 2002.  Fiscal Risks  Now Erdogan is adding a new layer: the  family doctors  who
are charged with holding down costs by treating locally,
catching conditions like diabetes and obesity early, and only
referring serious cases to hospitals that previously were the
only recourse for many patients with minor ailments.  The Ankara-based institute Tepav, which monitors Turkey’s
 budget , cites rising spending on pharmaceuticals and poor
collection of social security premiums as fiscal risks. “The
financial structure can only be set on a sustainable path by
policies to strengthen the revenue side” and ensure patients
are treated more cheaply by family doctors instead of at
hospitals, it said in a November 2009 report.  Erdogan scrapped proposed legislation in September that
mandates the government reduce a fiscal deficit that was 5.5
percent of gross domestic product last year, raising concern
that he may loosen  budget discipline  as elections approach.  Turkey’s health spending at 6 percent of GDP is lower than
all OECD members bar Mexico, and compares with 16 percent in the
U.S., the  OECD  said last month.  Spending is “affordable and manageable,” Zachau said.
“The challenge is to keep it that way.”  ‘Incredibly Bad’  Reha Denemec, a deputy leader of Erdogan’s Justice and
Development Party, said the government has rebuilt a system that
was “incredibly bad eight or 10 years ago.” He said Erdogan
was personally motivated to make the changes after he was
shunted from hospital to hospital following a car accident in
the late 1980s. The premier is also an outspoken  anti-smoker  and
has banned cigarettes from restaurants and bars.  The Turkish Medical Association considers the market-based
changes “wrong for Turkey in terms of delivery and in terms of
financing,” said Eris Bilaloglu, president of the  group  that
represents about 90,000 doctors. The new system requires
patients to supplement the government contributions with top-up
fees for treatment that some of them can’t afford, and thus
isn’t fair on the poor, he said.  Family Clinic  Erdogan’s party “depends on the votes of relatively poor
people and it takes some skill to act against their interests,”
Bilaloglu said. “But that’s what they’ve done.”  There’s satisfaction with the system, though, at a new
family clinic in the  Mamak  suburb of Ankara, where patients
leave after examination and cross the road to the pharmacist
opposite, bearing a prescription.  “We don’t need to go to the hospital now, for basic things
we can just come here,” says Elveda Abatay, 29, guiding her
two-year-old daughter, Busra. “It’s much better. Doctor Omer
knows who Busra is and says hello when we arrive. That didn’t
happen before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 