-- VW Seeks Electric-Car Sales as Nissan, GM Add Models
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-08T18:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/volkswagen-china-seeks-to-sell-10-000-electric-car-to-design-new-model.html
Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest
carmaker, plans to build and sell 10,000 electric cars in China
from 2014 to 2018 as rivals add more fuel-efficient vehicles in
the world’s biggest auto market.  The German company will produce an electric model at local
ventures with  SAIC Motor Corp.  and  FAW Group Corp.  as early as
2013 and is considering a battery-powered model specifically
designed for the nation in 2018, said  Karl-Thomas Neumann ,
president of Volkswagen Group China, at a conference on electric
vehicles in Shenzhen, China yesterday.  Volkswagen, the first overseas automaker to enter the
Chinese market three decades ago, joins  Nissan Motor Co. ,
General Motors Co. and  Daimler AG  in planning electric vehicles
in the country. While local demand for electric cars and hybrids
trails other markets, China is offering buyers of plug-in
hybrids and pure electric cars subsidies of as much as 60,000
yuan ($9,000) to help cut pollution and reduce oil dependency.  “There is a very strong argument that electric cars are
the right move for China, although there are still many
challenges,” Neumann said yesterday. “China is making huge
investments in renewable energy.”  The challenges include lessening the country’s reliance on
electricity produced by coal-fired power stations and high
battery costs, which make production of electric cars in China
not feasible at the moment, Neumann said.  Touareg Hybrid  The German carmaker will introduce its Touareg hybrid
sport-utility vehicle locally this year and begin field tests of
electric vehicles in China this year, VW said yesterday.  Volkswagen’s preferred shares rose 1.20 euros, or 1.1
percent, to 108.85 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in
Frankfurt. The stock has  gained  67 percent this year, valuing
the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company at 47.5 billion euros
($66.2 billion).  Other car companies are planning to introduce new electric
models in China before Volkswagen.  General Motors , the biggest overseas automaker in China,
will add its Chevrolet Volt, which runs about 40 miles on
batteries before using engine power, during the second half of
2011 and may introduce further models, the company said.  “We’ll probably move to lead with lower cost cars, which
are more designed around shorter trips and urban-use than some
other parts in of the Western world,”  Kevin Wale , president of
Detroit-based GM’s China business, said yesterday at the
electric-car conference in Shenzhen.  Other markets such as the U.S. will require no-compromise
electric vehicles that meet all the standards of today’s
vehicles, he said.  Nissan, Daimler  Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan, which plans to make as many
as 500,000 electric vehicles a year globally by 2012, will begin
tests of its Leaf electric car in Wuhan, China next year, Hideki
Kimata, senior general manager of the Japanese automaker’s
Chinese joint venture with  Dongfeng Motor Co . said in September.  Daimler and Shenzhen-based  BYD Co.  will be ready to
introduce an electric car in the nation as early as 2012,  Dieter Zetsche  said in October.  China will have as many as 20,000 plug-in hybrids and
electric cars by 2013,  Wan Gang , China’s minister for Science
and Technology said yesterday.  Still, Chinese consumers may lag behind more developed
automarkets in their acceptance of alternative-energy vehicles.  Researcher J.D. Power & Associates estimates China will
account for less than 9 percent of the total plug-in hybrid and
electric car demand by 2020, according to a study last month.  Chinese Consumers  Chinese consumers may buy 432,000 plug-in or electric
vehicles in 2020, out of a total of 5.2 million globally, J.D.
Power said.  In Japan, hybrids already account for around 10 percent of
car sales, according to the Japan Automobile Manufacturers
Association.  Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s biggest seller of regular
hybrids, is testing feasibility of introducing plug-in hybrids
and electric cars in China with its partners FAW Group Corp. and
 Guangzhou Automobile Co. , Executive Vice President  Takeshi Uchiyamada  said yesterday.  Even so, electric cars may be of limited use to many
drivers and mainly used by those traveling short distances in
cities because of the limitations of battery technology,
Uchiyamada said.  “We expect hybrids and plug-in hybrids to replace most of
the gasoline-powered vehicles we have today,” he said. Fuel-
cell vehicles may eventually become popular with drivers that
want to drive longer distances, Uchiyamada said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  