-- Myanmar Awaits Results of Vote Ending Military Rule
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-11-08T05:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-07/myanmar-awaits-results-of-vote-that-would-end-22-years-of-military-rule.html
Myanmar citizens awaited results of
an election that brings a multi-party parliament to the country
for the first time since 1962 even as  Aung San Suu Kyi  and some
2,100 other political prisoners remain detained.  Rival military factions are vying to control Parliament and
vote for a new president, ensuring the current generals maintain
their grip on power as 22 years of direct rule comes to an end.
The U.S., Canada and the U.K. condemned the vote, the first
since Suu Kyi’s party won a landslide victory two decades ago in
a result nullified by the junta.  “We can’t get away from the fact that Burma is still run
by a dictator, which is Senior General  Than Shwe ,”  Jacob Ramsay , a senior analyst at Control Risks Group, told Bloomberg
Television today, referring to Myanmar by its former name.
“Most people believe he will remain a dictator by proxy.”  The election and formation of a new government may prompt
Western nations to reassess economic sanctions as Myanmar’s
Asian neighbors welcome the vote. China, India and Thailand are
spending money on ports, railways and oil and gas pipelines that
give them access to Myanmar’s natural resources and trade routes
in the Indian Ocean.  The elections “were neither free nor fair,” U.S.
President  Barack Obama , visiting India on the first stop in a
four-country trip, said in a statement yesterday. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton , traveling in Australia, reiterated a U.S.
push to establish an international Commission of Inquiry to hold
junta leaders accountable for human rights violations.  Possible Release  Suu Kyi, 65, may be released on Nov. 13 and will visit
supporters around the country “as soon as possible” if she’s
freed,  Win Tin , a senior member of her party, told reporters
yesterday by phone from Yangon. The Nobel laureate has been
detained for 15 of the past 21 years, with her latest house
arrest starting in 2003.  Suu Kyi “is ready to consider the economic sanctions,”
said  Win Tin , who spent 19 years in prison before his 2008
release. “First she would like to see what kind of sanctions
are there and how they affect people’s lives.”  Myanmar extended a state of emergency for 90 days that bans
political gatherings and stops troops from leaving the military
for three months, ABC News reported, without citing where it got
the information. Rebel troops clashed with government soldiers
along the Thai border today, Agence France-Presse reported,
citing an unidentified Myanmar government official.  Military Role  State-run MRTV showed junta leader  Than Shwe  and deputy
Muang Aye casting ballots dressed in military uniform. The votes
will be counted at each polling station in the presence of
candidates, after which the results will be announced.  The military will  retain  a quarter of seats in two houses
of Parliament, according to the constitution. Elected lawmakers
in both houses will each be able to nominate a presidential
hopeful to compete against the candidate picked by military-
appointed legislators.  “Serving military officers, former military officers and
democrats will all be sitting around the table,”  Khin Zaw Win ,
an independent academic who was imprisoned for 11 years until
2005, told reporters in Bangkok by phone from Yangon, Myanmar’s
former capital. “That’s quite an achievement for a country that
has been so bitterly divided over the years.”  Than Shwe backs the Union Solidarity and Development Party,
which claims a third of the population as members. Its main
challenger is the National Unity Party, a group loyal to former
dictator  Ne Win , who led a 1962 coup and established one-party
rule until Than Shwe’s group took power following a pro-
democracy uprising in 1988.  Not a ‘Facsimile’  The USDP and NUP ran more than twice as many candidates as
the 35 other parties, making a 1990-style win for the pro-
democracy parties “statistically impossible,” according to
 Richard Horsey , an independent political analyst. The ensuing
government would be “authoritarian-leaning” though it would
“certainly not be merely a facsimile of the present regime in
civilian clothing,” he wrote in a pre-election  report .  The government banned most overseas journalists and
diplomats from entering Myanmar to observe the election and
rejected United Nations assistance in organizing the vote.  The U.S. maintains trade and financial  sanctions  against
the regime, and legislators are pushing the  Obama  administration
to start targeting banks that hold offshore accounts for junta
leaders. Europe has less stringent restrictions in place.  Italian-Thai Development Pcl , Thailand’s biggest
construction company, signed an $8.6 billion contract last week
with Myanmar to build a deep-sea port and industrial estate.
Earlier this year,  China National Petroleum Corp.  started
building oil and gas pipelines across the country, and India
approved plans for  Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  and GAIL India Ltd.
to invest a combined $1.3 billion in a natural gas project.  Western countries want “a greater dialogue among
countries, including those that are investing in Myanmar, to
find common ground to put pressure on the regime to treat its
population better,” Ron Hoffmann, Canada’s ambassador to
Myanmar, said in Bangkok after the vote. “It’s a long road
ahead though and it’s not going to be easy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net ; 