-- Starbucks cuts 600 jobs amid stagnant U.S. growth
-- By  Lisa Baertlein
-- Thu Feb 21, 2008 8:15pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/02/22/businesspro-starbucks-jobs-dc-idUSWNAS194220080222

 

 LOS ANGELES  (Reuters) - Starbucks Corp ( SBUX.O ) said on 
Thursday it would eliminate 600 jobs as it works to turn around 
stagnating U.S. coffee shops in the face of a weak economy. 

  The coffee seller has been battered in recent months by 
slower consumer spending, higher milk and labor costs and 
concerns that it may have saturated its domestic market.  Sales at established U.S. outlets fell last quarter, and 
Seattle-based Starbucks has already announced plans to expand 
overseas and close underperforming U.S. stores.  UBS Equity Research analyst David Palmer called the move a 
visible step to remove bureaucracy and cost.  "We expect earnings to ramp through the year as unit growth 
slows, innovation improves (and) dairy pressures abate," Palmer 
said in a client note.  Chief Executive Howard Schultz, who made the announcement 
in an e-mail to employees, is slated to share details of the 
company's strategy at a shareholder meeting on March 19.  Shares in Starbucks, which were drifting lower prior to the 
announcement, fell 2.4 percent, or 43 cents, to $17.83 on the 
Nasdaq.  Schultz also said the company would double the number of 
its U.S. field organizations to four by March 24, in a bid to 
get closer to customers and employees -- which Starbucks refers 
to as partners.  Starbucks laid off 220 employees on Thursday. One-third of 
them worked in Seattle, spokeswoman Valerie O'Neil said.  Those employees performed a variety of duties from finance 
to design and marketing.  The company has also eliminated an additional 380 open 
positions, O'Neil said.  None of the cuts affect people working at Starbucks 
outlets, said O'Neil, adding that Starbucks has 170,000 
employees.  McAdams Wright Ragen analyst Dan Geiman said the layoffs 
were expected.  "I don't think it's a surprise at this point," he said.  (Editing by Gerald E. McCormick and  Braden Reddall )