-- Philly Fed index seen still negative in February
-- 
-- Wed Feb 20, 2008 6:48pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/02/20/businesspro-usa-economy-philly-dc-idUSN2016120920080220

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Factory activity in the U.S. 
Mid-Atlantic region is likely to have posted a third month of 
contraction when February data is released on Thursday, adding 
to suspicions that recession has taken hold nationally. 

  Economists expect the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank's 
business activity index to come in at minus 11.0 in February, 
which would be a statistical improvement from negative 20.9 in 
January but still an unambiguous contraction.  The 46 estimates in the Reuters poll ranged from minus 18 
to 0.0. January's result was the weakest since the recession of 
2001 and followed December's reading of minus 1.6.  Any reading below zero indicates contraction in the 
region's manufacturing sector.  Economists at UBS said in a research report on Wednesday 
that the U.S. economy is already in recession, albeit a mild 
one, as a weakening consumer sector has compounded the ongoing 
problems in the housing and credit markets.  The Philly Fed index will follow Friday's news that a key 
gauge of manufacturing in New York State posted its biggest 
monthly drop in February to the weakest since April 2003.  The New York Fed's "Empire State" index, one of the 
earliest monthly guideposts to U.S. factory conditions, slipped 
to minus 11.72 from plus 9.03 in January.  A weak report from the Philadelphia Federal Reserve could 
undermine the national picture of the manufacturing sector, 
which was teetering on the brink of contraction in January, 
according to the Institute for Supply Management.  The survey, to be released at 10 a.m. on Thursday, covers 
eastern Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and Delaware.  The following is a selection of economists' comments:
  BEAR STEARNS  Forecast: minus 10  "The Philadelphia Fed's manufacturing activity index 
plunged to -20.9 in January from -1.6 in December (and the 
details of the report corroborated the weakness in the headline 
index). Although other regional manufacturing indicators have 
also shown weakness recently (in contrast, the national ISM 
manufacturing index improved in January and manufactured 
production continues to point to growth, albeit slow growth), 
the degree of weakening in the Philadelphia Fed index in 
January seems exaggerated relative to other manufacturing data. 
We look, therefore, for a rise in the Philadelphia Fed index to 
-10.0 in February from -20.9 in January."
  INSIGHT ECONOMICS  Forecast: minus 10  "The Philadelphia Fed Survey improved moderately in 
February but was still solidly stuck in contractionary 
territory. Domestic demand for manufactured goods has weakened 
significantly and most manufacturers are trimming inventories. 
The major source of strength in the factory sector is still 
coming from rising exports. Employment remained weak while 
price pressures eased slightly because of lower energy prices."
  GOLDMAN SACHS  Forecast: N/A  "The Philadelphia Fed's business survey may show a bounce 
after the dismal reading in January; however, with the Empire 
index confirming that earlier move, we would not read too much 
into such an increase."
  BNP PARIBAS  Forecast: minus 12  "After such sharp monthly declines, it is usual for 
headline indices to experience some gentle recovery. In line 
with the historical record, we therefore target an improvement 
in the headline business conditions index to around -12.0. But 
this should not disguise that this survey, alongside other key 
regional surveys, is strongly suggesting that full-blown 
recession has already arrived."  (Reporting by  Burton Frierson ; Editing by  Andrea Ricci  and 
 James Dalgleish )