-- France's GDF/Suez utility merger hit by legal blow
-- By Thierry Leveque
-- Tue Nov 21, 2006 8:30pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/22/businesspro-utilities-gdf-suez-dc-idUSL2287806020061122

 

 PARIS  (Reuters) - French unions won a legal bid to postpone 
a crucial board meeting of Gaz de France GAZ.PA on its 
planned 80 billion euro ($102.5 billion) merger with utility 
Suez LYOE.PA, dealing a blow to the government-backed deal. 

  A Paris court upheld on Tuesday an earlier ruling to 
postpone the Gaz de France (GDF) board meeting, after trade 
unions had asked for more time to examine the transaction 
before the meeting, which had been scheduled for Wednesday.  The court also upheld an earlier ruling by a judge to bar 
state-controlled GDF from taking any decision on the merger 
until its European works council had given its own opinion on 
the deal.  GDF and Suez said they would continue to work on the 
merger, which would require the French government to privatize 
GDF. The government currently holds 80 percent of GDF.  "We note the decision by the Court of Appeal and we confirm 
the industrial logic of the proposed merger for both our 
companies," GDF Chairman and Chief Executive Jean-Francois 
Cirelli and Suez counterpart Gerard Mestrallet said in a joint 
statement.  "The merger project between Gaz de France and Suez remains 
the most pertinent for the future of our companies. We plan to 
implement it in the shortest possible timeframe whilst 
respecting all stakeholders' interests," they added.
  WALL OF OPPOSITION  Political wranglings over the merger come ahead of a French 
presidential election at the end of the first quarter of 2007.  France announced the GDF/Suez merger earlier in the year as 
part of its strategy of "economic patriotism," and the tie-up 
was widely seen as a defensive move by the government to thwart 
any takeover bid on Suez by Italian utility Enel ( ENEI.MI ).  Italy accused France of economic protectionism over the 
deal.  The ruling right-wing government has consistently defended 
the merger, saying France needs a national energy champion to 
negotiate advantageous contracts on international markets and 
ensure a secure supply of gas and electricity for the country.  But the merger has run into fierce opposition at home in 
France. Trade unions say privatizing GDF will push up gas 
prices and threaten jobs.  The opposition Socialist party has also threatened to 
renationalize GDF if it returns to power.  There has also been discontent among the financial 
community, with some leading Suez shareholders asking for 
better terms in the merger.  The merger is currently based on a one-for-one share swap 
with a one euro per share payout to Suez shareholders.  GDF shares closed down 1.8 percent on Tuesday, while Suez 
shares ended down 0.8 percent.