-- UPDATE 4-US judge denies class status in Merck Vioxx cases
-- 
-- Wed Nov 22, 2006 4:45pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/22/health-merck-vioxx-idUSN2219362820061122

 

  (Adds reaction from plaintiff lawyer) 

 NEW YORK  Nov 22 (Reuters) - A federal judge on Wednesday
denied a motion for class-action status for personal injury and
wrongful death cases involving Merck & Co.'s ( MRK.N ) withdrawn
Vioxx painkiller.  Judge Eldon Fallon of New Orleans, who is overseeing all of
the more than 7,000 federal lawsuits involving Vioxx, denied a
request by plaintiffs' attorneys for the class-action status.  Class-action status would have given the Vioxx plaintiffs
more leverage in their fight against Merck, by allowing
attorneys to sue on behalf of all individuals alleging harm.  "In this case, the difficulties in class management
overwhelm any efficiencies that could be secured through
classwide adjudication," Fallon wrote in his decision.  "Indeed, the predominance of individual issues relating to
plaintiffs' claims for compensatory and punitive damages
detracts from the superiority of the class action device in
resolving these claims."  About 24,000 federal and state lawsuits have been filed by
people who claim to have been harmed by the drug, which Merck
withdrew in 2004 after it was shown to increase the risk of
heart attacks.  Merck has vowed to fight the lawsuits one by one rather
than agree to a costly group settlement with the plaintiffs --
such as the one struck by Wyeth WYE.N over its withdrawn
"fen-phen" diet drugs.  "We are pleased by today's order because it reaffirms our
view that every case is different and should be tried
individually," said Ted Mayer, a lawyer for Hughes, Hubbard &
Reed, Merck's outside counsel.  Merck's shares rose 0.4 percent on Wednesday.  "Everybody foresaw this court decision; it's not
ground-breaking news," said Michael Galpern, a Vioxx plaintiff
lawyer from the Locks law firm in Cherry Hill, New Jersey.  He said courts have historically denied class-action status
for personal-injury lawsuits because of "the varying
distinguishing characteristics" of individual plaintiffs.  Of 11 Vioxx lawsuits that have gone to jury verdicts, Merck
has won seven. However, a New Jersey state court judge ordered
one of the victories to be retried after ruling that some new
evidence had come to light.  Some industry analysts have speculated Merck's eventual
liability over Vioxx will exceed $5 billion. To date, the
company has taken combined charges of about $1.28 billion to
cover litigation expenses but has not yet paid any damages to
plaintiffs.  Plaintiff attorneys last December asked Fallon to certify a
nationwide class action. But Merck objected, saying it would be
inappropriate to consider plaintiffs as a single group because
each plaintiff's claims involve distinct factual issues.  Merck shares closed up 16 cents to $44.38 on the New York
Stock Exchange, after being in negative territory earlier in
the day. The shares are up about 40 percent this year.








