-- UPDATE 3-Buyout firms sued over "club deals"
-- 
-- Wed Nov 15, 2006 4:44pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/15/financial-lawsuit-deals-idUSN1546063020061115

 

  (Adds background; comments from industry executives) 

  By  Anna Driver NEW YORK  Nov 15 (Reuters) - Shareholders filed a federal
lawsuit against 13 private equity firms on Wednesday alleging
that their investments were hurt when the buyout firms violated
antitrust laws by conspiring to fix deal prices.  The complaint, filed in U.S. District Court in Manhattan,
alleges that the investment firms formed "clubs" among
themselves to bid collectively in buyout actions. It also
charges that the firms exchanged information and submitted bids
at agreed-upon prices.  The lawsuit, which seeks class-action status, cites news
reports of an investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice
"into potential collusion by large buyout firms."  The lawsuit names big private equity firms including the
Carlyle Group [CYL.UL], Texas Pacific Group Ventures Inc.
[TPG.UL], the Blackstone Group [BG.UL] and Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Co. [KKR.UL]  It claims the plaintiffs "were paid less for their equity
shares that they sold to the private equity defendants and
their co-conspirators than they would have been paid under
conditions of free and open competition."  This year, 901 private equity deals worth $289 billion have
been announced in the United States. That is nearly twice the
value of 12 months ago, according to research firm Dealogic.
Buyout firms accounted for 22 percent of global deal volume in
the first nine months of the year.  "I'm not concerned about collusion because I don't think it
happens. We're viciously competitive with each other,"
Blackstone Group President Tony James told the Reuters
Investment Banking Summit on Tuesday.  "Just publicity received puts a cloud on the industry, it
is bad for the industry's image. It's more of a PR (public
relations) issue than substantive issue," James said.  Other buyout firms named in the lawsuit are Clayton,
Dubilier & Rice, Silver Lake Partners, Thomas H. Lee Partners,
Madison Dearborn Partners, Warburg Pincus and Providence Equity
Partners.  Private equity firms typically buy companies using a small
portion of their own cash and borrow the rest. They often own a
business for three to five years, restructure it, and then sell
it or launch an initial public offering of the company.  Buyout firms are raising increasingly larger funds and
eyeing bigger takeover targets. Texas Pacific Group, for
example, has closed a fund valued at just over $15 billion, a
source familiar with the situation said on Wednesday.  SHAREHOLDERS IN MEGA-DEALS  The lawsuit was filed by individuals who own shares of
Univision Communications Inc. UVN.N, HCA Inc. ( HCA.N ) and
Harrah's Entertainment Inc. HET.N. They seek unspecified
damages.  Univision agreed in June to a $12.3 billion buyout by four
private equity firms and media mogul Haim Saban. Univision said
on November 2 that the deal was expected to close in the first
quarter.  HCA, the No. 1 U.S. hospital operator, agreed to be
acquired by an investor group that includes Bain Capital, KKR,
and Merrill Lynch & Co. MER.N for about $21 billion in cash.
That deal is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2006.  Bain and Merrill are also named as defendants in the
lawsuit.  Harrah's is reviewing a buyout offer worth more than $15
billion from Apollo Management and Texas Pacific Group. Apollo
is also named in the complaint.  Among companies that "have done, or are doing, transactions
for prices that are below market rates due to the alleged
conspiracy" are Linens 'n Things Inc. ( LIN.N ), Michaels Stores
Inc. ( MIK.N ), OSI Restaurant Partners Inc. OSI.N, Warner
Chilcott PLC WCRX.O, Serena Software Inc. and Freescale
Semiconductor Inc. ( FSL.N ), according to the lawsuit.  When asked about the DOJ investigation and the claims of
potential collusion, Kenneth Jacobs, chief executive of Lazard
North America, said: "It's hard to tell from a distance."  "If you're running an auction and you don't have the
ability to keep people separated, it makes it difficult to
maximize value. There's no question about that," Jacobs said at
the Reuters Investment Banking Summit in New York on
Wednesday.  Representatives for KKR; Texas Pacific; Bain; Blackstone;
Clayton, Dubilier; Merrill Lynch; Apollo; and Warburg Pincus
declined to comment on the lawsuit. Representatives for the
other firms named in the lawsuit were not immediately
available.
 (Additional reporting by  Jessica Hall )


