-- `Grotesque' Basel Rules May Kill Denmark's Mortgage Bonds: Credit Markets
-- B y   T a s n e e m   B r o g g e r   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-12-23T17:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/-grotesque-basel-rules-may-kill-denmark-s-mortgage-bonds-credit-markets.html
Denmark says the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision’s rules will force the country’s lenders to
dump top-rated mortgage debt to meet new requirements on
holdings and may destroy the world’s third-biggest covered-bond
market.  The Nordic country is planning to challenge the rules,
published on Dec. 16. and Economy Minister  Brian Mikkelsen  has
already taken Denmark’s  grievances  to the European Commission.
The government and the country’s lenders are now waiting to see
how much the European Union will change the rules as they’re put
into effect next year. The final deadline for enforcement is
2015.  “It’s almost impossible to see how our financial system as
we know it will continue to function” if Basel’s liquidity
coverage ratio is enforced,  Ane Arnth Jensen , director of the
Copenhagen-based  Association of Danish Mortgage Banks , said in a
Dec. 21 interview.  Denmark’s lenders, which hold more than half the country’s
$490 billion of mortgage bonds, would be forced to sell off
holdings to comply with Basel’s 40 percent cap on using the
securities as liquid assets, Arnth Jensen said. Basel, which
says the rule will provide lenders with more liquid assets to
guard against times of financial stress, doesn’t place any limit
on sovereign-debt holdings.  The rule represents a “grotesque notion -- it shows the
committee doesn’t really understand the Danish mortgage-bond
market,” Arnth Jensen said.  Market Size  Denmark’s mortgage bond market is about 1 1/2 times the
size of the country’s economy and more than seven times the size
of the government bond market, according to the central bank.
Denmark, which isn’t one of the Basel Committee’s 27 members, is
one of the most vocal critics of the liquidity rules.  Elsewhere in credit markets, UBS AG lost an arbitration
ruling over structured products backed by Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. that will force it to pay more than $2.2 million
to  Thomas Motamed , chief executive officer of CNA Financial
Corp.  A Financial Industry Regulatory Authority arbitration panel
ruled Dec. 20 that UBS must buy back the notes at their original
cost and pay interest to Motamed, who’s also chairman of the
Chicago-based commercial insurer, and his wife, Christine. A UBS
adviser in Charleston, South Carolina, recommended the
investments, some of which were called principal protected, said
G. Trenholm Walker, Motamed’s attorney at Pratt-Thomas Walker.  Corporate Bond Yields  The extra yield investors demand to own corporate bonds
worldwide instead of similar-maturity government narrowed 1
basis point to 1.7 percentage points, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
Yields averaged 4.1 percent.  The cost of protecting bonds from default in the U.S.
climbed from the lowest level in eight months and bond mutual
funds had the biggest client withdrawals in more than two years
as a flight from fixed-income investments accelerated.  U.S. bond funds experienced withdrawals of $8.62 billion in
the week ended Dec. 15, up from $1.66 billion the week before,
according to a news release from the Investment Company
Institute, a Washington-based trade group. Last week’s
withdrawals were the largest since the period ended Oct. 15,
2008, when investors yanked $17.6 billion from bond funds.  Most of the money was probably pulled by institutional
investors looking to lock in higher yields by buying bonds
directly, rather than through funds, said  Geoff Bobroff , a
consultant based in East Greenwich, Rhode Island.  ‘Staying Put’  “I would guess most retail investors are staying put
because you aren’t seeing the money go anywhere else,” he said
in a telephone interview.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.75 basis point to a
mid-price of 85.5 basis points as of 12:20 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The rise came after a U.S. government report showed orders
for durable goods fell 1.3 percent in November, a bigger drop
than the 0.5 percent median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  The CDX index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on
a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Trading Denmark’s Bonds  Trading in Denmark’s covered bonds -- securities backed by
the cash flow from a pool of mortgage loans -- rose during the
financial crisis, both in the total value of securities traded
and in the median size of individual trades, according to
Denmark’s  central bank . It was easier to trade short-term
mortgage bonds than government notes, the bank said.  Reducing mortgage-debt stakes to comply with the Basel
rules is “simply out of the question, it can’t be done,” said
 Jesper Berg , senior vice president in charge of regulatory
affairs at Nykredit A/S, the country’s biggest mortgage lender.
“It would lead to a credit crunch the likes of which this
country has never seen.”  Denmark’s government-bond market is too small by about 300
billion kroner ($53 billion) to bridge the liquidity gap the
Basel rules would create, Arnth Jensen said.  Euro Debt  Danish mortgage bonds returned 4.5 percent this year,
according to  Danske Bank A/S’s index  tracking the securities.
The debt yielded 7.1 percent in 2009 and 6.6 percent in 2008. By
comparison, euro-area government bonds on average returned 1.1
percent this year, 4.4 percent in 2009 and 9.3 percent in 2008.
Denmark’s mortgage bonds haven’t suffered a default since they
were introduced after the great Copenhagen fire of 1795.  The Basel Committee says it’s taken national circumstances
into account in its design of the liquidity rules.  “We’ve gone a long way to diversifying what counts as
liquid assets compared to December 2009,” said  Stefan Walter ,
secretary general of the Basel Committee. Basel makes room for
allowances in the liquidity rule for banks in countries with low
government debt levels. The plans put “in place a process to
address any unintended consequences,” Walter said.  Arnth Jensen says the concessions aren’t enough.  ‘Very Critical’  “We’re in principle very critical of the notion that the
liquidity status of Danish mortgage bonds should depend on the
level of government debt,” she said. “The securities are
liquid whether the state has a high or a low level of debt.”  The EU may alter the Basel rules if they threaten the
economic recovery in the region, said  Michel Barnier , financial
services chief in charge of implementing the capital adequacy
and liquidity rules in the 27-member bloc, at a Dec. 2 banking
conference in Brussels.  Denmark’s mortgage bank association is also warning that
the Basel rules may bring to an end the country’s annual
adjustable-rate mortgage-bond auctions. Basel’s so-called net
stable funding ratio requirement, which won’t be enforced until
the beginning of 2018, deems bonds with maturities of less than
one year to be unstable.  “This may well force Denmark to drop its annual
adjustable-rate auction” in the short-term securities, Arnth
Jensen said.  This year’s $97 billion auction attracted record foreign
demand as non-Danish investors bought as much as 20 percent of
the adjustable-rate bonds on offer, according to Danske Bank.
The auctions, which ran from Nov. 25 through Dec. 13, drew
investors seeking refuge from Europe’s debt crisis.  Berg at Nykredit says Basel needs to draw more lessons from
the sovereign-debt crisis that left two euro-area governments
reliant on international bailouts, with some investors betting
more rescue packages are needed to support the region’s single
currency.  “The last year has shown very clearly that government debt
isn’t necessarily always more liquid than other forms of debt,”
Berg said. “It’s just not the case. The assumption is absurd.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Tasneem Brogger  at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net . 