-- 9/11 Wears On GOP, Now New York’s Problem: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2010-12-23T02:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/9-11-wears-on-gop-now-new-york-s-problem-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
Sometimes I say to myself,
“Republicans would never go that far.” Then they do, to no ill
effect.  They wouldn’t dare vow to bring Congress to a halt until
the rich got their tax breaks. But they said it out loud and
under the lights, and President  Barack Obama  knew they meant
business. That’s why he blinked and made a silk purse out of a
sow’s ear, pairing their tax cuts with unemployment benefits and
some economic stimulus.  In the interim, nothing did get done, including medical
benefits for first responders who have suffered for their
bravery at the World Trade Center ruins on and after Sept. 11.  Who thought Republicans, the party of 9/11, would allow
themselves to become the party dragged kicking and screaming to
help sick men and women who ran toward the fallen towers when
every instinct of self-preservation said to run the other way?  The bill that got held up is the  James Zadroga 9/11 Health
and Compensation Act , named for a policeman, a non-smoker who
was healthy as of 2001, only to die in 2006 at age 34 of a
respiratory illness.  The legislation, finally adopted by the Senate yesterday in
what New York’s two senators called a “Christmas miracle,”
provides $4.3 billion -- negotiated down from $6.2 billion -- to
help and compensate people who became sick years after being
exposed to toxins at Ground Zero, including those who stuck
around for months to dig out the dead and now struggle with
disability claims and uncompensated health-care costs.  Simple Idea  The principle is a simple one: If you risked your life and
lost your health in America’s hour of need, America will stand
by you.  You would think Republicans would have been tripping over
themselves to uphold that principle, not nickling-and-diming
these collateral victims, some of whom are dealing with
grotesque respiratory diseases. Men who once were strapping and
healthy are dying in their 40s.  In the immediate aftermath of the towers falling, people
wondered if the nausea and headaches some workers were getting
was a harbinger of worse effects to come.  Christie Whitman , then
administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
assured us that New York’s air was “safe to breathe.” Six
years later she told Congress that she had been addressing those
comments to residents of Lower Manhattan in general, not workers
at Ground Zero.  At the risk of understatement, 9/11 was long sacred to
Republicans -- or so they said. It was used as justification for
vast new law-enforcement powers, for cutting taxes in 2003 to
stimulate the economy, for invading Iraq.  Drawing the Line  For reasons that elude me, Senate Republicans decided to
draw the line at sick 9/11 responders. And for too long those of
us in the press lost track of the story in a welter of
procedural moves Republicans threw up like Jersey barriers.  It took “The Daily Show With  Jon Stewart ” to do what the
rest of us failed to do.  In the last  episode  of the year, Stewart hosted four first
responders, all ill. John Devlin, an operating engineer with
stage four throat cancer, said in a raspy voice, “We’re
patriots to this country.” Firefighter Kenny Speck, who has
cancer, told of a colleague who had recently died of face
cancer, after “his nose fell off his face.”  Yet the often-weepy Republicans in Congress didn’t cry for
these victims. Which raises this uncomfortable question: Was it
because most of the victims are from New York?  Among the excuses Republicans came up with last summer was
the prospect that there might be an illegal immigrant among
those who could be helped by the legislation. Imagine the
precedent that would set! Someone who got into this country
illegally getting treatment for lung cancer contracted while
trying to help injured Americans. Call it chemotherapy as moral
hazard: the fear that more immigrants will sneak into our
country for the chance to die for it.  Toxic Taxes  Republicans also raised the usual concerns about waste,
fraud and abuse. They were horrified that the legislation --
which, unlike tax cuts, has to be paid for to be considered --
carried the whiff of a tax increase, because it closed a
loophole benefiting foreign corporations. That’s as toxic to the
GOP as asbestos.  A more recent excuse was the calendar. Having delayed the
bill until their soaring dream of tax cuts for  Rupert Murdoch 
could become a reality, they claimed insufficient time to
consider it.  Jon Kyl  of Arizona, the Senate’s No. 2 Republican, said he
was offended that Democrats would move a bill directly onto the
floor (it’s been around for years) and without a hearing (the
appropriate committee held one). All the fuss seemed to mystify
Kyl, who wondered aloud on Fox News, “Why would they need $6
billion?”  Not Next Year  This week, Republican Senator  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma said
of the legislation, “We can do this next year, and we should.”
It’s already too late for James Zadroga and others who’ve died
after breathing the poisonous dust of Ground Zero. Time is
running out for others.  Maybe that’s what the GOP means by being fiscally
responsible: The longer they managed to stall, the fewer people
would be alive to benefit.  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
George Bush and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Margaret Carlson  in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  