-- Apax Agrees to Buy German Clothier Takko From Advent
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-12-23T17:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/advent-will-sell-clothing-retailer-takko-to-apax-by-first-quarter-of-2011.html
Apax Partners LLP, a London-based
private-equity firm, agreed to acquire  Takko Holding GmbH  from
Advent International Corp. to gain the German operator of about
1,500 discount clothing stores.  Apax agreed to pay about 1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion)
for Takko, three people with knowledge of the talks said
yesterday. The companies didn’t disclose the price today. The
transaction is expected to be completed in the first quarter of
2011 and must be approved by antitrust authorities, Boston-based
Advent said in a statement.  Takko, which is based in Telgte, Germany, plans to open
about 150 stores a year as it expands into eastern Europe. The
retailer has annual sales of 938 million euros and 12,500
employees, Advent said. Advent, manager of a 6.6 billion-euro
leveraged buyout fund, is selling Takko after buying it for 770
million euros in 2007.  “We regard the Takko concept as having enormous potential
for expansion, but also further opportunities for sales
productivity growth,” Apax partner  Christian J. Naether  said
today in a separate statement. “We fully support the successful
management team, led by CEO  Stephan Swinka , in pursuing its
chosen growth course.”  Retail Investments  Apax Partners, which in the past year has invested or
committed 2.3 billion euros in seven investments across four
continents, has previously invested in retailers including Tommy
Hilfiger and New Look, it said.  Leveraged buyout firms pool money from investors to take
over companies, financing their purchases mostly with debt, with
the intention of selling them later for a profit. The firms seek
to expand or improve performance at companies they acquire
before selling them within about five years.  “We are delighted about the partnership with Apax and the
resulting potential for future growth, especially in e-commerce
and international expansion,” Takko Chief Executive Officer
Swinka said in Apax’s statement. The company will continue to
expand internationally and open more stores under its new brand
“1982,” Apax said.  Apax had been competing with EQT Partners AB as well as
joint bidders PAI Partners and TPG Capital, people familiar with
the matter said earlier this month. Advent had also explored an
initial public offering of Takko, the people said.  Advent was advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche
Bank AG as well as law firm Hengeler Mueller. Apax was advised
by Nomura Holdings Inc., Lazard Ltd., and Ferber & Co. as well
as Bain Consulting, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Linklaters
LLP, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  