-- Maersk Agrees to Buy Brazilian Assets for $2.4 Billion
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c   a n d   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-12-23T14:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/maersk-oil-agrees-to-buy-sk-do-brasil-assets-for-2-4-billion.html
Maersk Oil , a unit of A.P. Moeller-
Maersk A/S, agreed to buy SK do Brasil Ltda. for $2.4 billion,
giving the Danish company access to three oil blocks in Brazil.  The Nordic region’s second-largest oil producer will
acquire a 40 percent stake in the Polvo field, a 20 percent
stake in the Wahoo discovery and a 27 percent stake in the
Itaipu discovery, according to a statement today. The
acquisition of SK do Brasil, a unit of South Korea’s largest oil
processor, SK Energy Co., is subject to government approval.  Maersk is exploring Brazil’s deepwater pre-salt region,
whose Tupi field is the largest find in the Americas since 1976,
alongside other oil companies including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ,
Repsol YPF SA and BG Group Plc. In March, the unit of Denmark’s
biggest company agreed to buy a 20 percent stake in the BM-C-34
license off the coast of Brazil from Devon Energy Corp.  “Brazil is the new hot zone,” said  Peter Hitchens , an
analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in London. “It has massive
reserves and big upside potential from new discoveries.”  Brazil will add the most oil production of any country
outside of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or
OPEC, over the next 25 years and surpass Venezuela and Mexico to
become the second-largest producer in the Americas, behind the
United States, the EIA said in its  International Energy Outlook .  Replacing Reserves  “We think this is a reasonable deal,”  Nils Smedegaard Andersen , A.P. Moeller-Maersk’s chief executive officer, said by
phone. “There’s nothing inexpensive in the oil sector. It was
an OK price.”  China Petrochemical Corp ., Sinopec’s state-controlled
parent, agreed on Oct. 4 to pay $7.1 billion for a 40 percent
stake in Repsol YPF SA’s Brazilian unit. Brazil’s state oil
company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , known as Petrobras, issued about
$42.5 billion of stock to the government in September in
exchange for the rights to develop 5 billion barrels of oil
reserves.  Besides Brazil, Maersk has also been examining
opportunities in Greenland, the Gulf of Mexico and Angola to
revive production growth.  “This is in line with their formerly communicated strategy
that they will be expanding in the oil and gas business,”  Axel Funhoff , an analyst at ING Equity Research in Brussels who has a
“buy” rating on Maersk, said by phone.  SK do Brasil’s share of production at Polvo is 10,000
barrels of oil a day, Maersk said. The Wahoo and Itaipu
discoveries will be appraised next year and production may start
by 2016 and 2018, respectively.  “In terms of assets on the market, this is one of the best
street addresses in the world,” Maersk Oil’s CEO Jakob Thomasen
said by phone. “This is a great opportunity to give us some
production, as we’re still not producing in Brazil.”  Maersk rose 0.7 percent to 51,450 kroner as of 14:32 a.m.
in Copenhagen, while SK Energy closed up 1.1 percent in Seoul.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Gelu Sulugiuc  at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net  and
 Marianne Stigset  at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  