-- Maersk Chief Says Considering Oil Company Acquisitions
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-12-23T14:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/maersk-chief-says-considering-oil-company-acquisitions-update1-.html
Maersk Oil, which agreed to buy SK
do Brasil Ltda. for $2.4 billion, will consider acquiring oil
companies and may announce further purchases in 2011, said the
head of its parent,  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S .  “It’s not that we have an extremely aggressive plan at the
moment, but we would like to increase our investments in the oil
sector,” Chief Executive Officer  Nils Smedegaard Andersen  said
in a telephone interview today. “There are lots of
opportunities around.”  Maersk Oil, the Nordic region’s second-largest oil
producer, will acquire a 40 percent stake in the Polvo field as
well as stakes in the Wahoo and Itaipu discoveries off Brazil,
it said in a statement today. The company previously said it’s
also examining prospects in Greenland, the Gulf of Mexico,
Norway and Angola to revive production. Maersk is interested in
more acquisitions in Brazil, Andersen said today.  “We’ve defined it as a core area and it’s very prolific,”
said Andersen, chief of the world’s biggest container line. “We
believe it’s one of the most exciting places in the oil industry
at the moment, so if the right things come up, we’d definitely
be interested. But we’re also looking at things elsewhere in the
world.”  Maersk Oil pumped about 700,000 barrels of oil equivalent a
day in 2009, down from a peak of just under 800,000 barrels a
day in 2007, according to its website. Production is expected to
decline further in 2010, Andersen said today. In March, the
company agreed to buy a 20 percent stake in the BM-C-34 license
off the coast of Brazil from  Devon Energy Corp ., which had also
agreed to sell a stake in the permit to  BP Plc .  Oil Asset Sales  The world’s largest oil companies, including BP,  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc  and  ConocoPhillips , have sold assets at a record
pace this year, finding buyers at higher prices as China and
other emerging economies vie for reserves. Brazil is the second-
biggest target for oil and gas deals this year, with $57.1
billion deals against the top target, the U.S., at $83.4
billion.  “It’s true that the market is pretty dynamic, there’s a
lot of activity, but there’s also a lot of competition,” Maersk
Oil’s Chief Executive Officer  Jakob Thomasen  said by telephone.
“What characterizes this deal is that we’ve done our homework,
we have a strong relationship with the seller and we’ve managed
to react very quickly.”  SK do Brasil, a unit of South Korea’s biggest refiner, SK
Energy, opened the bidding for the assets “about a week ago,”
Thomasen said. Maersk’s chief said the $2.4 billion paid for the
stakes in the three fields was “an OK price.”  “We think this is a reasonable deal,” Andersen said.
“There’s nothing inexpensive in the oil sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   Maersk Oil Considers Acquisitions in Norway to Boost Output
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  