-- Lagarde, Schaeuble Meet as Germany Drafts Post-2013 Euro-Region Aid Plan
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-12-23T18:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/lagarde-schaeuble-meet-as-governments-draft-debt-crisis-containment-plans.html
(Corrects to show talks were canceled in headline, first,
12th paragraphs.)  Bad weather forced German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and his French counterpart,
 Christine Lagarde , to cancel planned talks in the border city of
Strasbourg today as euro-region governments draw up plans aimed
at containing the debt crisis.  German ministry officials drafted a proposal that includes
standby credit lines, bond purchases and supervision by national
parliaments to replace the current rescue facility for over-
indebted euro countries that expires in 2013. The blueprint,
reported earlier in Sueddeutsche Zeitung, was written at staff
level and has not been shown to or approved by policy makers,
according to a Finance Ministry statement today.  European leaders at their last meeting “charged euro-
region finance ministers with securing the stability of the euro
region as a whole, to advance work on economic-policy
coordination and to define the outline of the European Stability
Mechanism by March 2011,” the ministry said. “This is of
course taking place.”  Chancellor  Angela Merkel  has clashed with European partners
over how to counter bond-market volatility. The euro has dropped
8.5 percent against the dollar this year and the extra yield
investors demand to hold 10-year bonds of Italy, Spain and
Portugal over German equivalents rose last month to euro-era
records.  The draft proposal, contrary to initial German positions,
doesn’t foresee automatic contributions from private investors
in the rescue of troubled states, the Sueddeutsche report cited
the ministry paper as saying. The fund would allow the European
Central Bank to stop the purchase of euro-region government
bonds, reinforcing its independence, Sueddeutsche said.  Emergency Aid  Under the proposal, euro-region member states would be able
at any time to draw on emergency aid that would be tied to
strict conditions to remain solvent, the newspaper said.  The fund, which would be “independent” from government
interference, would be supervised by an equally independent body
made up of lawmakers from national parliaments, it said.  Hans-Peter Friedrich , parliamentary leader of Merkel’s
Christian Social Union ally, said his party rejects the idea of
creating an independent aid fund whose decisions Germany would
not be able to block. The current European Financial Stability
Facility, which gives individual members veto powers, is a
“solid foundation” for safeguarding the euro, he told the
 Rheinische Post  newspaper.  Deposit Collateral  Euro states in need of aid would have to deposit collateral
of at least 120 percent of the desired loans in the form of gold
reserves, shares in companies or claims on income, the
Sueddeutsche cited the draft as saying.  The so-called European Stability and Growth Investment Fund
would be allowed to buy government bonds by offering bondholders
debt conversion on a voluntary basis. While bond investors may
suffer losses, these would be smaller than the risk of
nonpayment, Sueddeutsche said.  The fund would hold a minimum amount ready at all times for
short-term financial aid, it said.  The French and German finance chiefs are discussing how the
two countries can develop joint economic forecasts on growth,
inflation, investments and the  labor market , according to Martin
Kreienbaum, Schaeuble’s spokesman. Kreienbaum later said that
the meeting scheduled to take place in the French city of
Strasbourg had been canceled due to snowy conditions.  Lagarde’s proposal, made in a separate interview today in
the Sueddeutsche, to establish a region-wide economic government
whose consent would be needed for national economic policy
decisions is “not the right project,” German Economy Minister
 Rainer Bruederle  said.  Governments should focus on creating a “sustainable rescue
mechanism” for the euro that’s guided by the principles of
independence, individual responsibility, transparency and the
ability to sanction over-spending euro members, Bruederle said
in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  