-- Airgas Must Explain Rejection of New Offer at Jan. 25 Hearing, Judge Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2010-12-23T20:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/airgas-must-detail-rejection-of-new-offer-judge-says.html
Airgas Inc. , the packaged-gases
company fighting a $5.9 billion hostile takeover attempt, must
explain its rejection of  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. ’s latest
offer in a retrial of claims over its anti-takeover defenses.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge  William B. Chandler III  said
today he will hear evidence and arguments in January on whether
Airgas’s so-called poison-pill takeover defense is valid in the
wake of Air Products’ decision to raise its offer to $70 a
share. Chandler held a weeklong trial in October on the same
issues tied to Air Products’ $65.50-a-share offer at the time.  “A supplemental evidentiary hearing is necessary before
this court can rule with respect to the $70 offer,” Chandler
wrote in a letter to the lawyers today. The hearing is slated to
start Jan. 25 in Georgetown, Delaware, court filings show.  Air Products, which has been pursuing Radnor, Pennsylvania-
based Airgas for more than a year, raised its bid on Dec. 9 from
$65.50 and called it the “best and final offer.” Yesterday,
Airgas rejected the offer, which amounts to $5.89 billion, as
too low.  Jay Worley , an Airgas spokesman, declined to comment on
Chandler’s letter.  Betsy Klebe , a spokeswoman for Allentown,
Pennsylvania-based Air Products, didn’t immediately respond to
telephone calls seeking comment.  Airgas’s poison-pill defense is designed to make hostile
takeovers of the industrial gas distributor prohibitively
expensive.  Spurned Offers  Airgas officials have used the defense to help fend off Air
Products’ offers. Airgas directors have said the company is
worth at least $78 a share.  Air Products’ “explicitly affirmed” its position that the
$70-a-share offer is its last in a Dec. 21 letter, the judge
said. He asked the company to produce documents relating to the
decision to make the final offer and will allow limited
questioning of individuals directly involved with the decision,
according to the letter.  Lawyers for both sides can produce evidence on whether
Airgas directors acted in good faith in rejecting the offer and
whether Air Products’ new bid represents a threat to the
company, Chandler said in the letter.  Chandler said he expects the hearing in January to last two
or three days. “It would be my intention to provide the parties
with a final decision very promptly after concluding the
evidentiary hearing,” he said.  Decision to Make  Thomas Hayes, a Minneapolis-based analyst at Piper Jaffray
Cos., said earlier this month that if Chandler upheld Airgas’s
poison-pill defense, Air Products executives would likely
abandon their takeover bid.  Air Products is caught between its assertion that the
“final” offer expires Jan. 14 and a desire to see whether the
judge will overturn the poison pill, said  Laurence Alexander , a
New York-based analyst at Jefferies & Co. Chandler probably
won’t rule on the case until February, he said.  “Does Air Products wait for the judge, or do they pull the
offer on the deadline they have already set?” Alexander said in
a telephone interview. He rates Airgas “hold” and Air Products
“buy.”  Air Products officials raised their bid for Airgas after
the Delaware Supreme Court ruled the packaged-gas company’s
shareholders couldn’t force Airgas to hold their next annual
meeting in January.  Air Products hoped to use that meeting to replace three
Airgas directors with its own nominees, win control of the board
and have the poison-pill takeover defense deactivated.  Airgas rose $1.06, or 1.7 percent, to $62.50 at 3:24 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company’s
shares have risen 31 percent this year.  The case is is Air Products and Chemicals Inc. v. Airgas
Inc., CA5249, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 