-- Taiwan's Construction Stocks Set to Extend Gains Next Year, Sinopac Says
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2010-12-23T23:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/taiwan-s-construction-stocks-set-to-extend-gains-next-year-sinopac-says.html
Taiwan’s construction stocks may
extend gains next year after outpacing the broader market as a
rebounding economy and liquidity outweighed successive rounds of
interest rate increases, according to Sinopac Securities Co.  The  Taiex Construction Index  has climbed 25 percent this
year, almost three times the 8.7 percent advance in the broader
 Taiex  index. The 36-member construction measure rose 1.4 percent
yesterday to its highest since June 9, 2008.  Taiwan’s central bank raised its benchmark interest rate
twice this year to 1.5 percent and said it will act to try to
prevent real-estate speculation. Economic growth has surpassed 9
percent annually for each of the past four quarters amid a
rebound in trade and domestic spending.  “People continue to buy because rental yields of 3 percent
to 4 percent are still better than what you can get in time
deposits, and property is seen as a defense against inflation,”
said  Jerry Lu , an analyst at Sinopac Securities Co. in Taipei.
“Interest rates have only risen a little bit and are still near
historic lows, driving demand for new housing projects.”  Highwealth Construction Corp. , a Taipei-based developer of
residential properties and the second-largest component of the
construction index, advanced 40 percent this year, while  Radium
Life Tech Co.  increased 69 percent.  Taiwan’s property market may also gain from the return of
overseas Taiwanese, whose funds spurred more real estate
purchases, said Lu, who recommends investors “buy” Highwealth
and  Huaku Development Co.   Interest Rate Increases  Central bank Governor Perng Fai-nan on Sept. 30 raised the
benchmark rate for a second time after cutting it last year to a
record low following the global financial crisis.  Growth
domestic product  climbed 9.8 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier.  Perng wrote to the chairmen of the island’s financial
institutions in July to ask them to help prevent housing
speculation, after complaints from citizens that homes were
becoming unaffordable.  The central bank introduced mortgage restrictions in June
when it raised the discount rate on 10-day loans to banks for
the first time since 2008. The measures included a 70 percent
cap on loans for second homes in the Taipei metropolitan area,
echoing moves by authorities in China, Hong Kong and Singapore
to damp real estate prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  