-- Malaysian Air Extends Rally on Possible Benefits From Air France-KLM Pact
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-12-23T03:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/malaysian-air-extends-rally-on-possible-benefits-from-air-france-klm-pact.html
Malaysian Airline System Bhd. , the
national carrier, rose for a second day in Kuala Lumpur stock
trading on the signing of an agreement with  Air France-KLM
Group’s  Dutch KLM unit to foster closer cooperation.  The Subang, Selangor state-based  airline  climbed 4.4
percent to 2.12 ringgit at 10:46 a.m. local-time, the largest
advance on the benchmark index and adding to yesterday’s 5.7
percent surge. The stock is set for its biggest two-day gain in
10 months.  The preliminary agreement signed with KLM will pave the way
for greater connectivity and better schedules, Malaysian Air
said during trading hours yesterday.  “We are positive on this development as it could help
Malaysian Air ride on KLM’s global network and possibly drive
cost efficiency,” Wong Ming Tek, an analyst at HwangDBS Vickers
Research Sdn. wrote in a report today. “This could strengthen
its position in the market in the face of a competitive
environment.”  Malaysian Air Chief Executive Officer Tengku Azmil
Zahruddin said on Sept. 1 the carrier is open to joining a
global airline alliance as closer cooperation with SkyTeam
members would be “beneficial” as it will offer them a “major
hub” in Asia. Members of the Skyteam aviation alliance include
Delta Air Lines Inc. and Air France-KLM.  “The deal could also benefit both parties as Malaysia is
known to be an ideal transit point for visitors from Australasia
and Europe,” Wong wrote in the report.  Malaysian Airline said on Nov. 25 it returned to profit in
the third quarter ended Sept. 30, reporting net income of 233.2
million ringgit ($75 million) compared with a net loss of 299.8
million a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  