-- Taliban Insurgents Prepare to Attempt `Spectacular' Attacks, UN Envoy Says
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-12-23T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/taliban-will-attempt-spectacular-attacks-in-afghanistan-un-envoy-says.html
Taliban insurgents will attempt
“spectacular attacks” on U.S. and allied military forces in
Afghanistan in the coming months, the top  United Nations  envoy
to the war-torn central Asian nation said.  “We are detecting from the anti-government elements an
attempt to show on their side some spectacular attacks,”
 Staffan de Mistura , head of the UN mission to Afghanistan, told
reporters yesterday after briefing the Security Council. There
is likely to be “an intense security environment in the next
few months. In other words, our assessment is that before it
gets better, it may get worse.”  U.S., Afghan and allied forces are trying to degrade the
Taliban militia in its southern Afghanistan stronghold while
building up the central government’s ability to secure the
country. The conflict began in 2001 when the U.S. toppled the
Taliban regime that harbored the al-Qaeda terrorist group
responsible for the Sept. 11 attacks in the U.S.  The military push in southern Afghanistan is “showing
results,” De Mistura said, while cautioning that the Taliban
are also demonstrating new signs of strength in other regions of
the country.  “When there is such an intense military activity taking
place in the south, the tendency by the Taliban is to try to
catch people by surprise by moving into areas where you are not
expecting them to be in action,” De Mistura said.  He cited the October attack on the UN offices in the
western city of Herat, which has been relatively peaceful since
the war began.  Russia’s Ambassador  Vitaly Churkin  said the Taliban have
“substantially increased” their attacks in northern and
northeastern Afghanistan, and urged the U.S. and European
nations with troops in the country to “counter the spread of
instability” to those regions.  Military successes in the south were “not yet part of a
long-term positive trend,” Churkin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  