-- Man. City Faces $59 Million Price on Dzeko; McClaren May Be Fired: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-12-23T10:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/man-city-faces-59-million-price-on-dzeko-mcclaren-may-be-fired-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Dzeko Price Tag  Manchester City ’s attempt to sign Edin Dzeko looks in doubt
after German club Wolfsburg put a 38 million-pound ($59 million)
price tag on the Bosnian, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Should City fail to buy Dzeko, it may bid for  Liverpool 
striker  Fernando Torres , the paper said.  Former England manager  Steve McClaren  may be fired as
Wolfsburg manager after the team slumped to 13th in the
Bundesliga, the  Mail  reported. Wolfsburg had an embarrassing 3-1
home defeat to second-division Energie Cottbus in the German Cup
yesterday, the Mail added.  “I am disappointed and frustrated. We have hit bottom,”
the Mail cited McClaren as saying.  Wolfsburg won the Bundesliga for the first time in 2009.  Barton Committed  Newcastle  midfielder  Joey Barton  played down reports he
could move to West Ham or Aston Villa, the  Daily Telegraph 
reported.  “I have been on record as saying I want to stay here for
the rest of my career,” the paper quoted Barton as saying.
“Nothing has happened and no one has told me otherwise, and as
far as I’m concerned, that’s what’s going to happen.”  Everton Joins Wheater Race  Everton  has joined Aston Villa in the race for
Middlesbrough defender  David Wheater , the  Daily Mail  reported.  Middlesbrough is asking around 2 million pounds for
Wheater, 23, who will be out of contract in the summer.  Jo’s German Escape?  Hamburg  is interested in signing Manchester City striker
Jo, the  Daily Mail  reported.  After joining City for 18 million pounds from CSKA Moscow,
Jo has spent time on loan at Everton and Galatasaray.  Anelka’s American Dream  Chelsea  player  Nicolas Anelka  may play in the U.S. when his
time at the London club ends, the  Daily Star  reported, citing
his brother and agent Claude.  Anelka, 31, will be out of contract in 2012. Chelsea has
yet to offer the former France international an extension.  “Nicolas told me he is interested in playing in the United
States,” the paper quoted his brother as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 