-- Asian Air Cargo Shipments May Signal Cooling U.S. Retail Electronics Sales
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2010-12-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/asian-air-cargo-shipments-may-signal-cooling-u-s-retail-electronics-sales.html
A slackening in Asian air cargo
bound for the U.S. may signal that American consumers are
slowing purchases of electronics and appliances after a post-
recession spending spree.  Shipments from Asia to the U.S. rose at a 15 percent pace
in October, less than half the January-to-June rate, the
International Air Transport Association said Dec. 14.
Electronics and appliances make up about half of Asian imports
shipped by air. Global air-cargo demand growth may slow to 5.5
percent next year from 18.5 percent this year, IATA said.  Cooling sales of discretionary items such as flat-screen
TVs and personal computers might indicate that household
purchases won’t expand as fast as many economists are assuming,
said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York. Retailers such as  Best Buy Co .
and Whirlpool Corp. have said consumers, whose spending accounts
for 70 percent of the U.S. economy, are shying away from
purchases of big-ticket items.  “Asia freight volumes to the U.S. are slowing, and this
raises the risks to the outlook for electronic retail sales
here,” said Rupkey. “There may be a little bit of caution
still given the  unemployment  rate is nearly 10 percent and the
consumer is trying to get the debt-laden balance sheets back
under control.”  Consumer spending may expand 3 percent next year, Rupkey
forecasts, less than the 4 percent projected by  Neal Soss , chief
economist at Credit Suisse Holdings USA Inc. in New York, and
 Jim Paulsen , chief investment strategist at Wells Capital
Management in Minneapolis. Consumer spending gains have averaged
2.9 percent in the past 15 years.  Selective Investors  Investors may have to be more selective in their choice of
consumer stocks in 2011 after the companies outperformed the
past two years, said  Colin McGranahan , a retail analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  The Standard & Poor’s Retail exchange-traded fund, which
includes Best Buy and Fort Worth, Texas-based RadioShack Corp.,
has risen 136 percent since the start of 2009, compared with 39
percent for the S&P 500 exchange-traded fund.  “Selectivity is key,” said McGranahan, who recommends
shares of office-supplies retailer Staples Inc., based in
Framingham, Massachusetts, and Minneapolis-based discount
retailer Target Corp. “The group overall will struggle to
outperform. The stocks fully embed the recovery. The opportunity
for outperformance is far more limited.”  Sales of electronics fell 0.6 percent last month for a
second straight decline, Commerce Department figures showed Dec.
14. Overall, retail  sales  gained 0.8 percent in November after a
1.7 percent jump in October.  Consumer Bellwethers  Electronics and appliances are bellwethers of consumer
spending because they are usually discretionary purchases and
can be postponed, said  Britt Beemer , chief executive of
America’s Research Group, a retail industry tracking group in
Charleston, South Carolina.  “Everyone’s budget is tight,” he said.  Rupkey says sales of electronics may slow after rising 3.7
percent over a year earlier through November on a three-month
moving-average basis. Sales growth of electronics and appliances
averaged 2.4 percent over the past 10 years.  “Retail sales have been on fire for electronics goods the
last few months and may be cooling a little,” he said.  Soss and Paulsen say they are confident that a payroll-tax
cut and higher employment will boost spending above its long-
term average.  Fiscal Stimulus  “The job gains, mediocre though they have been, the income
gains, the low interest rates and now the prospect of a
significant fiscal stimulus have gotten the consumer back in the
game,” Soss said.  Growth will be “led by the consumer,” Paulsen said, as
private payroll gains pick up next year.  Freight tonnage growth in Asia is giving way to more
sustainable growth, said  Andrew Herdman , director-general of the
Association of Asia Pacific Airlines.  “An extraordinarily strong recovery” has boosted Asian
cargo, Herdman said in a Bloomberg Television interview Nov. 25.
“We don’t see signs of double-dip” recession. “We are going
to see a sustained recovery. That makes us optimistic about next
year.”  International Priority freight pounds increased 29 percent
at FedEx Corp. in the three months through November, down from
gains of about 41 and 68 percent the previous two quarters, the
second-largest U.S. package-shipping company said Dec. 16.  ‘Steady Pace’  “Overall, the global economic picture is increasingly more
positive as recovery continues at a steady pace,” Chief
Executive Officer  Fred Smith  said on a conference call with
analysts, while “Asia is moderating toward more normal high
growth rates.”  UTI Worldwide Inc., an international freight-forwarding and
logistics company, said Dec. 2 that fourth-quarter volumes in
air freight would be about the same as last year after a 20
percent increase in the third quarter from a year earlier.  “The trend has clearly been a growth rate deceleration,”
said Benjamin Hartford, transportation analyst at Milwaukee-
based Robert W. Baird & Co. Inc.  Best Buy, based in Richfield, Minnesota, cut its annual
profit forecast to $3.20 to $3.40 a share, from $3.55 to $3.70,
because of weaker-than-expected sales of televisions, computers
and video-game software.  ‘Too Aggressive’  “Our top-line growth assumptions earlier in the year
turned out to be too aggressive based on the environment that we
see for demand, specifically in the TV industry and the
computing industry overall,” said  James Muehlbauer , chief
financial officer, in a conference call with investors.  Best Buy’s shortfall resulted in part from not being
“aggressive enough on pricing,” said  David Strasser , an
analyst at Janney Capital Markets in New York.  Competitor hhgregg Inc., based in Indianapolis, lowered its
annual earnings estimate in November to $1.30 to $1.45 a share
from $1.35 to $1.45 a share.  “Clearly, there continue to be some structural challenges
in the overall economy that are creating headwinds in our
industry,” said  Dennis May , chief executive officer, in a Nov.
9 conference call with investors. “However, we are also firmly
believe that the consumer is both healthier and more
opportunistic than they were a few quarters ago.”  Whirlpool said Oct. 27 that demand was moderating in North
America. The Benton Harbor, Michigan-based company cut its 2010
forecast for North American industry shipments to 3 percent from
5 percent.  “We do think we’ll see a return to what I call normal
demand levels in the developed markets in the U.S. and Europe,”
said  Jeff Fettig , chairman and chief executive officer, in at an
analyst meeting with investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  Anthony Feld  in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  