-- Tax Cutters Set Up Tomorrow’s Fiscal Crisis: Simon Johnson
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2010-12-23T02:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/tax-cutters-set-up-tomorrow-s-fiscal-crisis-commentary-by-simon-johnson.html
President  Barack Obama  is receiving
congratulations for moving to the center on the tax agreement
with Republicans last week.  Both sides think they got something: Democrats feel this
will nudge  unemployment  below 8.5 percent in 2012, helping the
president get reelected; Republicans achieved longstanding goals
on measures such as the estate tax and think they will get most
of the credit for an economic recovery that’s already under way.  The truth is, the deal moved us closer to a fiscal crisis,
just as the euro zone now is experiencing.  Who will emerge on top in the U.S. version is harder to
predict; at the moment, Republicans have the edge. But it’s not
clear even they will be happy with what they wished for -- an
opportunity to enact massive federal government  spending  cuts.  The central conceit behind official thinking about fiscal
policy on both sides of the aisle is that investors will buy
almost all U.S. government debt without blinking an eye or
increasing Treasury yields. This is an endearing and heart-
warming notion, rather like a seasonal showing of  Jimmy Stewart 
in “ It’s a Wonderful Life .”  What it should do is force us to think about how much the
world has changed and how antiquated such ideas are today.  The U.S. is steadily losing its global economic and
financial predominance. To be sure, we offer the largest amount
of government debt on the market, but investors have plenty of
choices around the world, both in terms of debt and other
assets. The idea that our Treasury market will be buoyed by
captive investors, whether the Chinese central bank or anyone
else, is quaint and at odds with today’s reality.  Debt Dream  Remember that we run a large  current account deficit , so we
need to take in new foreign capital every day just to maintain
our lifestyle. So this isn’t just about foreigners refusing to
understand the American debt dream.  It’s true that the euro zone has had a rocky ride in recent
months and we shouldn’t expect those countries to sort out their
problems soon. Another round of serious euro sovereign debt
issues is likely as we head into the spring.  But the euro leadership will sort itself out; there is too
much on the line. A stronger and more Germanic core of the euro
zone will establish its fiscal credibility and its resilience.  The key to debt sustainability isn’t how much  revenue  the
government can raise relative to gross domestic product or some
other economic characteristic. It’s whether a country has the
political will to raise taxes or cut spending when under
pressure from the financial markets.  This is where Greece and Ireland were found wanting in
2010; we’ll see how Portugal, Spain, Italy, Belgium and perhaps
even France do in 2011. Then it will be the U.S.’s turn.  It’s Easy  The issue isn’t whether we can muster a bipartisan
consensus to cut taxes; this is easy to do. But can our
politicians agree on what to do when 10-year Treasury yields
surge, interest payments soar and there are concerns about the
rollover of our relatively short-term government debt?  One response is: The Federal Reserve won’t let this happen
and will use another round of quantitative easing or some other
innovation to hold down long rates. Maybe so, but 10-year
benchmark rates have spiked in the past month or so, and
 mortgage rates  -- presumed to be the Fed’s target -- have gained
more than half a percentage point from recent lows.  Some people, like my colleague  Joseph Gagnon  at the
Peterson Institute for International Economics, think this
reflects the  success  of the current round of quantitative
easing. Others feel that it shows global sentiment already
turning against U.S. fiscal policy. Either way, it suggests the
U.S. has only a limited ability to finance its growing debt at
very low interest rates.  Three Developments  When this kind of fiscal pressure builds, we typically see
three developments.  First, there is a fuller accounting of off-balance-sheet
and contingent liabilities. We will hear a great deal about what
the U.S. government really owes over the next 10 or 20 years in
terms of its support for everything from public pensions to
banks that are too big to fail.  Second, a state or other entity will get into serious
trouble and threaten to default, creating a potential Lehman-
type moment. The question is, just how much is the federal
government on the hook?  Third, expectations become self-fulfilling. As interest
rates rise, fiscal policy makers flounder. Unlike weaker
European countries, the U.S. can’t use an outside fiscal
authority to break this kind of spiral. Even China,  holding 
perhaps around $2.6 trillion dollars, doesn’t have enough
financial firepower to make a difference -- and remember that
most of its assets are in the very U.S. Treasury securities that
will be under pressure.  Two Choices  At this point, we will have only two choices: Raise taxes
or cut spending. Given that the Obama administration is
unprepared for this scenario, and has no sensible tax-reform
plans under way, this gives an opportunity to Republicans intent
on big spending cuts. For anyone hoping to “starve the beast,”
this will be a historic opportunity.  But there’s a problem. The U.S. government doesn’t take in
much tax revenue -- at least 10 percentage points of GDP less
than comparable developed economies -- and it also doesn’t spend
much except on the military, Social Security and Medicare. Other
parts of government spending can be frozen or even slashed, but
it just won’t make that much difference.  That means older Americans are going to get squeezed, while
our ability to defend ourselves goes into decline. Just because
there’s a bipartisan consensus on an idea, such as tax cuts,
doesn’t mean it makes sense. Today’s tax cutters have set us up
for tomorrow’s fiscal crisis and real damage to U.S. national
security.  ( Simon Johnson , co-author of “13 Bankers: The Wall Street
Takeover and the Next Financial Meltdown,” is a professor at
MIT’s Sloan School of Management and a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Simon Johnson  at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  