-- Bank Rossii Moves Focus to Curbing Inflation From Ruble, Ignatiev Says
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-12-23T09:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/bank-rossii-moves-focus-to-curbing-inflation-from-ruble-ignatiev-says.html
The Russian central bank’s main goal
next year will be to keep  inflation  between 6 percent and 7
percent as policy makers no longer target the ruble’s exchange
rate, Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  said.  "We currently don’t have any targets for the ruble’s
nominal or real exchange rate," he said in an  interview  with
Moscow-based Kommersant, published today and confirmed by Bank
Rossii to Bloomberg. The bank may widen the ruble’s trading
corridor, used to limit "sharp movements" in the currency, which
may have even higher volatility in 2011 than this year, he said.  The bank’s inflation target for 2011 is "achievable,"
Ignatiev said, adding that the "very fast" growth of grain
prices leads to "some worries." The government should sell its
stockpiled grain on the domestic market through an exchange "in
the coming weeks" after prices for milling wheat rose 17 percent
from October through the start of December, he said.  Policy makers are weighing the first interest rate increase
since 2008 after inflation accelerated in November to an annual
8.1 percent, the fastest in 11 months, fueled by food prices
that rose after a summer drought.  The International Monetary Fund on Dec. 9 urged Russia to
focus "squarely on reducing inflation" as the Washington-based
lender raised its forecast for 2010 consumer-price growth to 8.5
from about 6 percent.  Rate Meeting  Bank Rossii will hold a meeting on interest rates tomorrow.
Fifteen of 16 economists polled by Bloomberg expect policy
makers to hold the key refinancing rate at 7.75 percent.  The  central bank  will use tools including its rate policy
and reserve requirements to curb inflation, Ignatiev said. He
doesn’t support a large increase of capital requirements for
lenders.  "I personally oppose a sharp increase of minimal capital
requirements for existing banks," he also said.  Minimum capital requirements for banks are set to rise to
180 million rubles ($5.88 million) from 90 million rubles on
Jan. 1, 2012. The central bank hasn’t formed a common position
on a proposal to further raise the requirements to as much as 1
billion rubles by 2015, Ignatiev said.  The central bank lowered the main refinancing rate 14 times
between April 2009 and May this year. It has kept the benchmark
at 7.75 percent for six months as policy makers sought to avoid
damping the  economy’s recovery  from a 7.9 percent slump last
year. Gross domestic product is set to grow 3.8 percent this
year and 4.2 percent in 2011, according to the Economy Ministry.  The main way the central bank can support economic growth
is by providing "low inflation" in the long-term, Ignatiev said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  