-- Barker Sided With Posen Against King on Bank of England Deficit Comments
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-12-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/barker-sided-with-posen-against-king-on-bank-of-england-deficit-comments.html
Former Bank of England policy maker
 Kate Barker  said she agreed with her then colleague  Adam Posen 
that comments on the speed of deficit cuts supported by Governor
 Mervyn King  in the  May Inflation Report  were too “political.”  “At the time, I shared the view that Adam expressed, that
I was slightly worried about the sentence in the Inflation
Report” which “was possibly a little more political than I
felt comfortable with,” Barker said in an interview on BBC
Radio 4’s “The World at One” yesterday. “But the big picture
comment that we needed a big fiscal tightening of course I was
fully sympathetic with.”  Posen said last month that he and at least one other
official showed concern on comments in the bank’s May 12 report
that the U.K. needed “a more detailed and demanding path of
fiscal consolidation” than the previous Labour government had
planned. The day before the release, Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservative-led coalition took power, committed to
quickening measures to tackle the record budget deficit.  “If fiscal tightening is too abrupt, and there’s perhaps
some risk it will be, the problem of course is that then growth
slows more than you expect,” Barker said. “You start to get
upward pressure on things like unemployment benefit and the
fiscal tightening itself becomes more difficult to achieve.”  Barker, who stepped down from the Bank of England’s
Monetary Policy Committee at the end of May after serving three
consecutive three-year terms on the panel, said Cameron’s
administration has indicated they are not “terribly worried”
about that because monetary policy can be eased further.  Inflation Risk  “Personally, I think that’s becoming a more difficult
argument to run,” partly because there is “a little bit more
upside risk on inflation, which is going to make the committee
cautious about easing even if growth is a bit weaker,” she
said. Also, quantitative easing “might not be quite so
successful a second time round. So, there is a risk that fiscal
tightening has been a bit too quick.”  In the days after Posen’s comments on Nov. 25, former
Chancellor  Alistair Darling  cautioned the bank against getting
too close to any political party, while former policy maker
 David Blanchflower , who contributes to Bloomberg News as a
columnist, called on King to quit. Posen said the bank’s
position on the budget squeeze had been discussed by the MPC and
that the majority “were comfortable with the language.”  Barker was formerly an economist at the Confederation of
British Industry, the U.K.’s biggest business lobby, and
published reports for the Labour government on the housing
market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  