-- BAT Wins Australian Approval to Pursue Trademark Claim Over Health Labels
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-12-23T05:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/bat-wins-australian-approval-to-pursue-trademark-claim-over-health-labels.html
British American Tobacco Plc. ,
Europe’s biggest cigarette maker, won an Australian judge’s
approval to pursue a claim that its trademark was infringed
by a distributor who covered a label with a health warning.  Supreme Court of Victoria Judge  Elizabeth Hollingworth 
today dismissed a request from Trojan Trading Co. to throw
the case out.  “Trojan makes some very valid criticisms of BAT’s
proposed cause of action,” Hollingworth wrote in the 19-page
ruling posted on the  court’s website . “I am not persuaded
that BAT’s claim ought to be summarily disposed of.”  British American Tobacco, based in London, is seeking
injunctions prohibiting Trojan from covering up labels on
packets of  Captain Black  cigars and the return of profits the
distributor earned from the sale of the cigars, or other
monetary damages, according to the ruling.  Trojan, a closely held Sydney-based company, distributes
cartons and packets of Captain Black cigars. Since at least
2007, Trojan has partly covered or erased the Captain Black
label with health stickers, BAT said, according to the
judge’s ruling. As a result, BAT’s trademarks have been
infringed, the company said.  Trojan is legally obligated to place graphic warning
messages on tobacco products before they can be sold in
Australia and may have erased or covered the label, the
company said. The company is following the law and BAT’s
claim is unsustainable, it said.  Intellectual Property  “This is a further demonstration that we will take all
necessary steps to protect our valuable intellectual
property,” BAT said in an e-mailed statement. The company
declined to comment further because the matter is before the
court.  Trojan’s legal adviser Peter Zada of Navado said he had
been instructed not to comment.  The Australian government has said it will require
tobacco products to be sold in  plain  packs beginning in 2012.
BAT has said it will wait to review the law, which it expects
the government to put forward early next year, before
deciding whether to challenge it in court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  