-- Beijing Lures Financial Companies to its CBD in $3.4 Billion Land Auction
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-23T08:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/beijing-lures-financial-companies-to-its-cbd-in-3-4-billion-land-auction.html
Beijing lured financial firms to its
central business district at an auction that sold 22.3 billion
yuan ($3.4 billion) worth of land, according to the city’s
government.  About 24 companies acquired six plots with a buildable area
of 1.1 million square meters (11.8 million square feet) in the
eastern Chao Yang district at a two-day auction that ended
yesterday, according to figures in statements on the city’s Land
and Resources Bureau. The majority of the companies are finance
related, including  China International Capital Corp. , HSBC
Holdings Plc and Citic Group.  Beijing has enlarged the CBD to lure companies to set up
headquarters there, in competition with cities such as Shanghai.
Beijing’s government said it encouraged bidding from financial
industries for the CBD area.  “The sale price wasn’t high because it’s certainly not the
first concern of the government,” said Beijing-based Richard
Wang, director and head of DTZ Consulting’s North China branch.
“They prefer buyers that can give the land sustainable usage,
even when the market fluctuates.”  China Minsheng Bank Corp.  won a 10,030 square meter plot
for 300 million yuan in the area and said it will build its
headquarters on the land, it said in a statement to the Hong
Kong Stock Exchange yesterday.  Building Tower  Citic Group will build a 500-meter tower, Beijing’s
tallest, after it won the biggest site in the area for 6.3
billion yuan, according to a report in the official Peoples’
Daily yesterday. Company spokesman Ji Feng said the plan needs
to be completed and declined to provide further details.  State-owned developer  Sino-Ocean Land Holdings Ltd. , Hong
Kong’s Asia Television Ltd., local developer Beijing Vantone
Real Estate Co. and Nine Dragons Paper Holdings Ltd. also bought
land at the auction.  China Minsheng Bank lost 0.8 percent to HK$6.51 at the 4
p.m. close in Hong Kong, while Sino-Ocean Land was unchanged at
HK$5.23.  Most state-owned financial companies and banks are
currently located in the Financial Street Area in the city’s
west.  Income from land sales for Beijing’s city government is
expected to exceed 150 billion yuan this year, competing with
Shanghai as the country’s top seller of property, the official
Xinhua News agency reported today.  -- Bonnie Cao . With Assistance from  Luo Jun . Editors: Malcolm
Scott,  Andreea Papuc   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  