-- Beijing Limits New Passenger Vehicles to Ease Congestion in China Capital
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-23T11:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/beijing-imposes-limits-on-new-passenger-vehicles-to-reduce-city-congestion.html
The city of  Beijing , ranked as
having the world’s worst traffic, introduced measures including
limiting the number of new passenger vehicles in the Chinese
capital to ease congested roads.  The government will issue a quota of 240,000 new vehicle
license places through a lottery system next year, with about 88
percent allocated to individual buyers, according to a statement
released today.  “There is an urgent need to implement comprehensive
measures to solve congestion problems that may get worse,” said
Zhou Zhengyu, deputy secretary-general of Beijing’s municipal
government. “There are serious traffic jams in some areas of
central Beijing at some time slots.”  Tax cuts and government subsidies aimed at spurring auto
sales have fueled a surge in traffic as China surpassed the U.S.
last year to become the world’s biggest car market. Officials
are looking to allay residents’ concerns after Beijing tied with
Mexico as having the world’s worst traffic, a  survey  by
International Business Machines Corp. this year found.  The city will issue new license plates through a lottery
and require passenger vehicles that aren’t registered in Beijing
to apply for a permit before entering the capital, according to
the municipal government. The restriction on out-of-town
passenger vehicles begins Jan. 1.  Onerous Commute  Motorists ranked the Chinese capital as having the most
“onerous” commute in the world, when factors such as traffic
predictability, gasoline prices and emotional stress were
included, according to the IBM poll, which surveyed 8,192
drivers in 20 cities worldwide.  Beijing tied with Moscow as being the city with the most
road trips canceled because of anticipated traffic jams. To
alleviate congestion, the government already bars cars from
roads on specific days each week depending on the last digit of
the license plate.  An unprecedented 30,000 new vehicles were registered in
Beijing last week, taking the total number of autos on the
city’s roads to a record 4.76 million, as car buyers rushed to
purchase ahead of an expected expiry of government incentives at
the end of the month.  “I got stuck in a jam last Christmas eve for hours,” said
Zhang Zhande, who started driving in Beijing in 1988. “Traffic
has been getting real bad over the past couple of years and
sometimes you feel it’s getting worse month by month.”  Stimulus Measures  Nationwide sales of passenger cars to dealers in November
increased 29 percent from a year earlier to a monthly record of
1.34 million units, the  China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers  said Dec. 9.  Stimulus measures including a consumption-tax rebate for
smaller vehicles, subsidies for rural car-buyers and incentives
to trade in older models helped China’s industrywide vehicle
sales jump 46 percent last year to 13.6 million units.  Shanghai, China’s wealthiest city, has since 1986
controlled the number of vehicles on its roads by restricting
the number of new car licenses. An ownership permit cost an
average 45,291 yuan ($6,800) in November, according to
government data.  -- Tian Ying . With reporting by  Feiwen Rong . Editors:  Chua Kong Ho , Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7571 or
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  