-- Bharat Forge Expects China Parts Venture to Post Annual Profit This Year
-- B y   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 2010-12-23T11:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/bharat-forge-china-venture-set-to-post-first-annual-profit-executive-says.html
Bharat Forge Ltd. , India’s biggest
automotive forgings maker, expects its China venture to post an
annual profit for the first time since it began four years ago.  “The Chinese joint venture has turned around completely,”
 Amit Kalyani , executive director at the Pune-based company, said
in an e-mail interview. “We are looking at expanding its
product portfolio and increasing the customer base.”  Bharat Forge’s billionaire chairman  Baba Kalyani  aims to
tap demand for auto parts in China where car sales may climb by
as much as 15 percent in 2011, according to estimates by General
Motors Co. and Volkswagen AG. Next year, sales in the world’s
largest automobile market may reach 20 million vehicles,
according to Booz & Co. and Nomura Holdings Inc. analysts.  “Going by recent performance, I expect significant
improvement in the profitability of the venture as future demand
in China will continue to be high,” Suprit Nayak, a Noida,
India-based analyst at Religare Technova Ltd., said by phone.  Sales of passenger cars to dealers in China increased 29.3
percent in November from a year earlier to a monthly record of
1.34 million units, according to the China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers.  Bharat Forge , which makes parts for Toyota Motor Corp. and
General Motors, has climbed 37 percent in Mumbai trading this
year, outperforming the 14 percent gain in the Bombay Stock
Exchange’s Sensitive Index. The shares fell 0.8 percent to
373.35 rupees at the 3.30 p.m. close of trading in the city.  Venture’s Loss  Faw Bharat Forge Changchun Co. , 52 percent owned by the
Indian company, posted a loss of 315 million rupees ($7 million)
in 2009. The venture started operations in 2006.  “The China operations will make a profit for the full
year,” said Bharat Forge spokesman, S. Rajhagopalan. “This is
due to increase in capacity utilization, restructuring and
improvement in efficiency parameters.”  The venture’s profits will be announced in May when Bharat
Forge reports its full-year earnings, he said.  India and the Asia-Pacific region contributed 47 percent of
Bharat Forge’s sales of 33 billion rupees in the year ended in
March, Kalyani said.  “This is expected to increase on the back of strong growth
in the domestic automotive market,” he said, without
elaborating.  India’s domestic passenger car sales rose 21 percent in
November from a year earlier, according to the Society of Indian
Automobile Manufacturers. Rising incomes may help boost annual
car sales to 3 million vehicles by 2015, according to the
government’s estimates.  Bharat Forge also makes components for the power, oil and
gas and construction industries. The company plans to double
revenue from its non-automotive business to 40 percent by March
2012, Kalyani said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jay Shankar  in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell in Mumbai at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  