-- MBIA Credit-Default Swaps Hold Steady After Ratings Cut, BofA Court Ruling
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-12-23T22:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/mbia-credit-default-swaps-hold-steady-after-ratings-cut-bofa-court-ruling.html
Credit-default swaps on  MBIA Inc. 
were little changed after Standard & Poor’s cut the company’s
debt rating and a New York court ruled that the bond insurer can
go ahead with a proposal to use statistical sampling in a fraud
suit against  Bank of America Corp.   S&P cut MBIA’s ratings yesterday, citing “significantly
higher” projections of potential losses and uncertainty that
the company’s split of its businesses will hold up in court.
Separately, Bank of America had sought to prevent MBIA from
using statistical sampling to pursue a lawsuit demanding that
the bank buy back mortgages MBIA says it was fraudulently
induced to insure.  “In a nutshell, there are some positive developments in
put-back litigation for MBIA, which could increase the amount of
out-of-court settlement,” said  Mikhail Foux , a credit
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York.  Contracts protecting against the company’s default for five
years increased 0.5 percentage point to 17.5 percent upfront,
according to data provider CMA. That’s in addition to 5 percent
a year, meaning it would cost $1.75 million initially and
$500,000 annually to protect $10 million of Armonk, New York-
based MBIA Inc.’s debt.  Contracts on the company’s MBIA Insurance Corp. unit held
at 57 percent upfront, unchanged from yesterday and up from 55.6
on Dec. 21, CMA data show.  Durable Goods  Contracts on Bank of America climbed 1.4 basis points to
177.4, CMA data show.  The cost of protecting bonds from default in the U.S.
climbed from the lowest level in eight months after orders for
durable goods trailed forecasts.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.8 basis point to a
mid-price of 85.6 basis points as of 3:53 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The rise came after a government report showed orders for
durable goods fell 1.3 percent in November, a bigger drop than
the 0.5 percent median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  