-- Fisher Sees U.K. Return to `Normalized' Rates, Telegraph Says; Pound Gains
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   K e n   M c C a l l u m
-- 2010-12-23T09:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/boe-s-fisher-sees-u-k-returning-to-normalized-rates-telegraph-reports.html
Bank of England Markets Director
 Paul Fisher  said U.K. interest rates will rise “to a normalized
position” of about 5 percent, the Daily Telegraph reported,
citing an interview. The pound climbed against the dollar.  The central bank won’t “be putting up rates so quickly”
as to cause “negative reaction” and will only tighten policy
quickly if the strength of the economy demands it, Fisher said,
according to the newspaper.  Bank of England policy makers have split three ways since
October on the need for economic stimulus, and officials showed
more concern this month that inflation may persist. Consumer-
price growth unexpectedly accelerated to a six-month high in
November, above the government’s 3 percent limit, while economic
growth was slower than initially estimated in the third quarter.  “I don’t think a change of 25 or even 50 basis points is
going to trigger a recession,” Fisher told the Telegraph. “But
what we need to do is to trigger the mindset in people that
that’s where rates will eventually go back to.”  The pound rose after Fisher’s comments and was up 0.1
percent at 1.5393 at 9:36 a.m. in London today. The remarks make
a U.K. interest-rate increase look more realistic, said Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. trader  Norifumi Yoshida .  “Rate hikes from the BOE seem possible,” said Yoshida,
vice president of the trading section in Singapore at Mizuho
Corporate Bank, a unit of Japan’s second-largest banking group.
“This is causing buying of the pound.”  Deflation Risk  Asked if it is possible that the central bank will increase
so-called quantitative easing next year, Fisher said that “the
chances are less than they were but it’s still not ruled out.”  “The reason we were doing QE through 2009 was largely to
ward off the threat of deflation that was the risk,” Fisher
told the newspaper. “That risk seems to me somewhat diminished.
Has it completely gone away? It is most likely to be triggered
again if we have some sudden shock or lurch in the economy that
is unexpected. You can’t rule it out.”  If the bank were to increase stimulus again, “you’re
immediately up to 25 billion pounds ($38 billion) as a minimum,
I’d have thought,” which would be “over a period of time,”
Fisher told the Telegraph.  Monetary Policy Committee member  Adam Posen  this month kept
up his demand to increase the 200 billion-pound bond-purchase
plan by 50 billion pounds, minutes of the Dec. 9 decision
released yesterday in London showed. His colleague  Andrew Sentance  voted to raise the interest rate for a seventh month
and the rest ensured no change in policy.  Fisher said that the economy may still contract again.
“The output growth of U.K. tends not to be that volatile
quarter to quarter but in this sort of situation when you are
recovering from a deep recession it is not impossible,” he
said, according to the Telegraph.  The Bank of England hopes “people are aware that interest
rates at some point will go up again” while “the speed at
which that happens is another thing entirely,” Fisher told the
newspaper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Livesey  in San Francisco at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
 Ken McCallum  in Tokyo at 
 kmccallum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  