-- Boeing to Resume 787 Dreamliner Test Flights Today After Electrical Fire
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2010-12-23T22:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/boeing-to-resume-787-dreamliner-test-flights-today-after-electrical-fire.html
Boeing Co.  said one of its 787
Dreamliner test jets will be allowed to resume limited flights
today after an electrical fire grounded the fleet and added to
delays for a plane already running three years behind schedule.  The 787s will fly for the company’s purposes only, with
efforts toward certification by the U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration to be restarted later, Chicago-based Boeing said
today in a statement.  Flights by the six test aircraft were suspended after an
electrical fire broke out Nov. 9 in a 787’s power panel and
knocked out some controls, forcing an emergency landing in
Laredo, Texas. The Dreamliner’s scheduled entry into commercial
service has been postponed six times and was targeted for the
first quarter of 2011 before the blaze.  “As we return to flight test and determine the pace of
that activity, we remain focused on developing a new program
schedule,”  Scott Fancher , the 787 program chief, said in the
statement. “We expect to complete our assessment of the program
schedule in January.”  The 787 is the first airliner made of composite plastics
instead of the traditional aluminum. Boeing has been struggling
with the new carbon-fiber materials, parts shortages, redesign
work and a greater reliance on suppliers. Test flights for FAA
approval to carry passengers began in December 2009.  Software Redesign  Since last month’s blaze, engineers have redesigned part of
the software for the 787’s electrical system to improve power
distribution and altered the panels where the fire started.
Boeing said last month that the incident probably was caused by
“foreign debris,” producing a short circuit or electrical arc.  Engineers from Boeing and  United Technologies Corp. ’s
Hamilton Sundstrand unit, which makes the power panels,
completed testing of the interim software updates this week,
Boeing said.  Today’s flight was scheduled to lift off from Paine Field
in Everett, Washington, next to the factory where Boeing builds
wide-body jets, and involve  aircraft No. 4  in the test fleet.
The Texas fire was on plane No. 2.  Boeing said today’s crew would deploy the wind-driven
turbine that is designed to drop automatically from the jet’s
belly in an emergency and generate backup power, as occurred
after last month’s fire. The Dreamliner uses five times as much
electricity as traditional airliners.  No Holiday Break  The 787 program will remain in operation while the rest of
the company shuts down starting tomorrow for a holiday break
until Jan. 4.  Boeing  rose 45 cents to $65.06 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have fallen 6.1
percent since Nov. 9, compared with a 3.6 percent gain for the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index .  The Dreamliner jets have been parked in and around Seattle,
home to Boeing’s commercial-aircraft headquarters, where they
have been undergoing maintenance and ground tests while awaiting
FAA approval to resume flights.  John Hickey , the agency’s deputy associate administrator
for aviation safety, met with Boeing executives in Seattle this
month to discuss the 787’s engine and electrical-system
reliability, said  Yvonne Leach , a Boeing spokeswoman. She said
the talks centered on certification for the long-haul, trans-
oceanic flights for which the jet was marketed.  “We are confident we will work through any issues or
concerns that the FAA has in a cooperative and constructive
manner,” Leach said yesterday.  The test jets fly around the world in search of various
weather conditions for tests required by the FAA. With 847
advance orders, the 250-seat Dreamliner, which has an average
list price of $202 million, is Boeing’s best-selling new
aircraft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  