-- Boeing Said to Resume 787 Dreamliner Test Flights After Fire
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2010-12-23T18:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/boeing-said-to-resume-test-flights-for-787-dreamliner-after-fire.html
Boeing Co. ’s new 787 Dreamliner will
be allowed to resume limited test flights as soon as today after
the jet was grounded for more than six weeks because of an
electrical fire, three people familiar with the matter said.  The flights will start with one plane and be for company
testing only, not for certification by the U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration, said two of the people, who declined to be
identified because Chicago-based Boeing hasn’t released the
information.  Boeing is still analyzing the schedule for the plane’s
initial delivery date, which has been delayed six times and was
set for the first quarter of 2011 before the fire, the people
said. The company probably won’t be able to announce the length
of the latest postponement until January, the people said.  Flights for the six-plane test fleet were suspended after
an electrical fire broke out Nov. 9 in a power panel of one of
the jets and knocked out some controls, forcing an emergency
landing in Laredo, Texas. The 787 is the first composite-plastic
airliner and uses an all-electric system to save on fuel.  Boeing and the FAA declined to comment about the plans for
a resumption of flight tests.  The Dreamliner’s commercial debut is three years late as
Boeing struggles with the new carbon-fiber materials, parts
shortages, redesign work and a greater reliance on suppliers.
The jet began flying in December 2009 to win FAA approval for
passenger service.  Software Redesign  Since last month’s blaze, engineers have been redesigning
part of the software for the 787’s electrical system to improve
power distribution as well as altering the panels where the fire
started. Boeing said last month that the incident probably was
caused by “foreign debris” that got into the panel, leading to
a short circuit or electrical arc.  The Dreamliner program will remain in operation while the
rest of the company shuts down tomorrow for a holiday break
until Jan. 4.  Boeing  rose 33 cents to $64.94 at 1:40 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares fell 6.7 percent
from Nov. 9 through yesterday, compared with a 3.7 percent gain
for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index .  The Dreamliner jets have been parked in and around Seattle,
home to Boeing’s commercial headquarters, where they have been
undergoing maintenance and ground tests while awaiting the FAA’s
approval for the resumption of flights.  Talks in Seattle  John Hickey , the agency’s deputy associate administrator
for aviation safety, met with Boeing executives in Seattle this
month to discuss the 787’s engine and electrical system
reliability, said  Yvonne Leach , a Boeing spokeswoman. She said
the talks centered on certification for the long-haul, trans-
oceanic flights for which the company has marketed the jet.  “We are confident we will work through any issues or
concerns that the FAA has in a cooperative and constructive
manner,” Leach said yesterday.  The test jets fly around the world in search of various
weather conditions for tests required by the FAA. With 847
advance orders, the 250-seat Dreamliner, which has an average
list price of $202 million, is Boeing’s best-selling aircraft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  