-- Brazil Airlines Face Strike Threat in Christmas Rush as Workers Vow `War'
-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 2010-12-23T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/brazil-airlines-face-strike-threat-in-christmas-rush-as-workers-vow-war-.html
Tam SA  and  Gol Linhas Aereas
Inteligentes SA , Brazil’s largest airlines, face a threatened
strike today by employees in the midst of the country’s pre-
Christmas travel rush.  Gol said it would maintain today’s flight schedule, while
Tam declined to comment.  Brazil’s national air worker union  has
been in talks seeking a pay raise since September, and its last
demand, for a 13 percent boost, was more than twice the
industry’s 6.1 percent offer.  “War is war. We’re not concerned with strike law, since
the only thing that matters to us now is to keep our dignity,”
union President Selma Balbino said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “I simply don’t care.”  The strike date discussed by the union comes two days
before the Dec. 25 Christmas holiday and in the month that marks
the start of Brazil’s busiest air-travel season. December 2009
traffic jumped 15.5 percent from November’s total, according to
the civil aviation regulator, which is known as  Anac .  “The airlines believe both in their workers’ and the
union’s common sense and dedication, especially in such a time
in which the main losers would be the passengers,” said Jose
Marcio Mollo, president of  Snea , as the Brazilian industry’s
trade group is known.  Tam is Brazil’s biggest airline based on its share of the
air-travel market, while Gol is the country’s largest by stock-
market value. The two Sao Paulo-based carriers are Brazil’s only
publicly traded airlines.  Image Risk  A strike “compromises the image” of both airlines, said
 Rosangela Ribeiro , an analyst at SLW Corretora in Sao Paulo. She
recommends buying  Gol shares  and  rates Tam  as “hold.”  Tam was little changed this month in Sao Paulo trading
through yesterday, while Gol has fallen 11 percent. The
benchmark  Bovespa index  has gained 1.1 percent in December.  Brazil’s  airport authority , known as Infraero, said it is
in touch with other regulators to ensure that  passengers can
board  any flights not affected by a strike. A contingency plan
for a walkout has been in place since the beginning of the
month, according to Infraero’s press office.  “There will be reinforcements in supervision by Anac and
Infraero, as well as all state police were mobilized to assure
that whoever wants to work, can,” Anac President  Solange Paiva Vieira  told reporters in Sao Paulo yesterday.  An air-controller strike in 2006 led to chaos in Brazil’s
airports in December of that year, with dozens of cancellations
daily and average flight delays that reached four hours. In
2007, more than one in five takeoffs were delayed, according to
Infraero.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jose Sergio Osse  in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  