-- Brazil Said to View Credit Curbs as Equivalent to 50-100 Point Rate Rise
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-12-23T21:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/brazil-said-to-view-credit-curbs-as-equivalent-to-50-100-point-rate-rise.html
  Brazil ’s central bank estimates that
an increase this month in reserve and capital requirements is
equivalent to lifting the benchmark interest rate by 0.5
percentage point to a full point, said a person familiar with
the bank’s decision-making process.  Policy makers decided to hold the overnight rate at 10.75
percent this month because tighter credit rules announced Dec. 3
had an impact similar to raising  interest rates , said the
person, who asked to remain anonymous because the estimates
aren’t public.  The monetary authority  signaled  yesterday in its quarterly
inflation report that it may start increasing interest rates
next month to lower inflation from a 23-month high.    Michael Shaoul , Oscar Gruss & Son Inc.’s chief executive
officer, said there’s no guarantee Brazil’s attempt to calibrate
the equivalent monetary impact from its macro-prudential policy
steps is “in any way correct.”  “One of the great problems with central banks going down
the path of macro-prudential monetary policy is judging the
level of tightness in effect,” Shaoul wrote in an e-mail.  The central bank, in leaving the Selic rate unchanged this
month, said it needed more time to gauge the economic impact
from the tighter reserve requirements. The bank, in the minutes
to its meeting, said the measures aren’t a “perfect substitute”
for raising rates, since they are part of an effort to reverse
stimulus measures adopted during the global financial crisis.  Yields on interest rate futures contracts due in January
2012, the most traded in Sao Paulo, rose 4 basis points to 12.15
percent at 2:56 p.m. New York time. The real strengthened 0.5
percent to 1.6913 per  U.S. dollar .  The central bank raised its 2011 inflation forecast to 5
percent, up from 4.6 percent in September, according to the so-
called reference scenario published in the quarterly inflation
report. Policy makers forecast inflation will also exceed its
4.5 percent target in 2012, when consumer prices will rise 4.8
percent. The bank’s reference scenario assumes the benchmark
interest rate remains unchanged.  An increase in borrowing costs of 150 basis points as
analysts are forecasting would slow inflation to between 4.5
percent and 4.8 percent by the end of 2011, assuming the real
remains stable, Carlos Hamilton, central bank economic policy
director told reporters yesterday.  The central bank will need to raise rates 225 basis points
to 13 percent to bring inflation back to target,  Alexandre Schwartsman , chief economist at Banco Santander in Sao Paulo,
wrote today in an emailed report.  Schwartsman said that the inflation report published
yesterday made it clear policy makers will no longer rely on
macro-prudential measures, and resort to interest rate increases
to combat inflation.  Consumer prices in the 12 months through mid-December rose
5.79 percent, the biggest annual gain in 23 months, on higher
food prices. It was the fourth consecutive month prices as
measured by the IPCA-15 index exceeded the government’s target.  Traders are wagering the central bank will increase the
overnight rate 50 basis points to 11.25 percent in January and
lift it to as much as 13 percent by end of 2011, according to
Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  