-- Brazil Court Orders Unions to Limit Strike Threatening Travel at Christmas
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 2010-12-23T05:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/brazil-court-orders-unions-to-limit-strike-threatening-travel-at-christmas.html
Brazil’s Superior Labor Court
ordered aviation workers to limit a strike that threatens to
disrupt flights during the country’s Christmas travel rush.  At least 80 percent of flight crew and ground staff must
work from today until Jan. 2, or the court will levy fines of
100,000 real ($59,000) a day, according to a ruling by Milton de
Moura Franca, the court’s head. The judgment was posted on the
body’s website. A call to Brazil’s  national air worker union ’s
office outside regular hours went unanswered.  The union planned to strike today ahead of the Dec. 25
Christmas holiday as it seeks pay increases of 13 percent, more
than double what employers are offering. Christmas travel helped
cause airports to be 15.5 percent busier in December than in
November last year, based on data from the civil aviation
regulator, which is known as  Anac .  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA , Brazil’s second-biggest
carrier by market share, said yesterday before the court ruling
that it would maintain flights today. Larger rival  Tam SA 
declined to comment. Both carriers are based in Sao Paulo.  Tam is little changed this month in Sao Paulo trading,
while Gol has fallen 11 percent. The benchmark  Bovespa index  has
gained 1.1 percent in the period.  Right to Strike  The judge capped the walkout at 20 percent of workers to
balance the right to strike and the right to freedom of movement
that is part of the country’s constitution, according to the
ruling. The injunction was given in response to a request from
the general labor prosecutor, a government official.  Brazil’s  airport authority , known as Infraero, has had a
contingency plan in place for a walkout since the beginning of
the month, according to its press office. Pay talks have been
under way since September.  Infraero and  Anac  planned to increase supervision and state
police had been put on alert to ensure that “whoever wants to
work, can,” Anac President  Solange Paiva Vieira  told reporters
in Sao Paulo yesterday.  An air-controller strike in 2006 led to chaos at Brazil’s
airports in December of that year, with dozens of cancellations
daily and average flight delays that reached four hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
 Jose Sergio Osse  in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 