-- Tam, Gol Lead Gains in Brazil's Bovespa After Air Workers Suspend Strike
-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-12-23T16:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/brazil-aviation-workers-suspend-strike-until-jan-3-union-president-says.html
Brazilian airline  Gol Linhas Aereas
Inteligentes SA  led gains on the Bovespa index in Sao Paulo
after aviation workers delayed until next month a planned strike
that threatened to disrupt Christmas travel.  Ground personnel and flight crews across the country will
work as normal today to comply with a court ruling, said Orisson
Melo, president of the union of aviation staff at Sao Paulo’s
Guarulhos international airport. Superior Labor Court President
Milton de Moura Franca yesterday ordered at least 80 percent of 
employees work until Jan. 2.  The  national air workers’ union  had planned to walk out of
their jobs today, demanding a pay increase of 13 percent, more
than double what employers were originally offering. Jose Marcio
Mollo, president of the Brazilian industry’s trade group, said
today airlines offered workers a revised 8 percent rise.  “The decision to delay the strike was positive,” said
 Felipe Rocha , an analyst at Link Corretora in Sao Paulo who
covers Brazilian transportation companies. “The issue is the
size of the pay raise. The companies facing striking workers
would be under pressure to give them a bigger raise.”  Gol, Brazil’s biggest carrier by market value, headed to
the biggest jump in a month, gaining 3 percent to 25.24 reais at
10:48 a.m. New York time. Tam SA climbed 1.7 percent to 41.16
reais. Both carriers are based in Sao Paulo. The Bovespa was
little changed at 68,451.40.  An air-traffic controllers’ strike in 2006 led to chaos at
Brazil’s airports in December of that year, with dozens of
cancellations daily and average flight delays that reached four
hours.  Right to Strike  The judge capped the walkout at 20 percent of workers to
balance the right to strike and the right to freedom of movement
that is part of the country’s constitution, according to the
ruling, which was posted on the court’s website. The ruling was
issued in response to a request from the general labor
prosecutor, which represents the government.  “We suspended the strike because of the court’s ruling,”
Melo, of the aviation staff union, said in a telephone interview
from Sao Paulo today.  ‘Strained Schedules’  Mollo, of Snea, as the industry trade group is known, said
by phone today that airlines boosted their pay increase offer
and that operations are unlikely to be disrupted.  Delays and cancellations may arise after companies
“strained our work schedules to the limit,” Gelson Fochesato,
president of the union of pilots and co-pilots, said by phone
from Sao Paulo today. “We’ve decided to postpone the strike to
January, on a date yet to be set.”  Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva, who steps
down Jan. 1, yesterday urged the two sides to reach an
agreement.  “I believe companies and workers should be flexible,”
Lula said. “It’s neither right nor humane to keep one from
travelling at Christmas.”  Government “pressure” may help bring a faster agreement
on wages, Link’s Rocha said.  Airport authority Infraero and civil aviation  regulator 
Anac planned to increase supervision and mobilize state police
to ensure that “whoever wants to work, can,” Anac President
 Solange Paiva Vieira  told reporters in Sao Paulo yesterday.  Gol  planned to maintain its flights today, the company said
yesterday in an e-mail. A press officer for  Tam SA  declined to
comment and asked not to be named, citing company policy.  Christmas travel helped make airports 16 percent busier in
December 2009 than in the previous month, according to  Anac . The
regulator estimates this December will be 12 percent busier than
the same month last year.  Infraero has had a contingency plan in place for a walkout
since the beginning of the month, according to its press office.
Pay talks started in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jose Sergio Osse  in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexander Cuadros  in Buenos Aires at
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net . 