-- Buffett’s Farm-Product Unit Acquires Plastics-Maker
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2010-12-23T17:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/buffett-s-farm-product-unit-buys-plastics-maker-for-cars-bombs.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc.  is expanding its CTB Inc., a maker of pig feeders and
agricultural equipment, by adding a Michigan-based producer of
plastic components used by the auto industry and the military.  CTB bought Ironwood Plastics, which was founded in 1979 and
operates manufacturing facilities in Michigan and Wisconsin, the
Berkshire subsidiary said today in a  statement  posted on its
website. Terms weren’t disclosed.  Buffett, 80, has bankrolled CTB’s expansion since Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire bought the maker of PigTek and Chore-
Time products in 2002. CTB, whose predecessor was founded in
1952 to serve poultry and livestock farmers, later expanded into
grain storage.  “Ironwood Plastics’ combination of management and process
skill coupled with their wide variety of plastics processes will
open many new avenues for us,” CTB Chief Executive Officer
 Victor Mancinelli  said in the  statement .  Ironwood will enter the agricultural market and expand
outside the U.S. and Canada, while maintaining service for its
current customers, according to the statement.  Ironwood makes custom precision-molded plastics for
automotive, military and industrial applications, including
pieces for bomb fuses, car sensors and electric meters, said
Mark Stephens, the company’s president, in an interview. The
company has about 165 employees, Stephens said. He declined to
disclose annual revenue. CTB has more than 1,100 employees,
Berkshire said in its most recent annual report.  Stephens co-founded the business with his father Gordon,
according to the CTB statement. Mark Stephens will continue
running the business along with Ironwood’s Rick Faustich, CTB
said.  Buffett said in October that he prefers to retain former
owners after acquisitions because they have a “passion” for
their companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 