-- Build Americas Save Puerto Rico Power $131 Million in Costs: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2010-12-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/build-americas-save-puerto-rico-power-131-million-in-costs-muni-credit.html
Puerto Rico Electric Power
Authority , the biggest U.S. public power utility by revenue, is
selling $500 million in taxable Build America Bonds before the
program expires to save $130.8 million over tax-exempt
borrowing, said Finance Director Martin V. Arroyo Feliciano.  The agency rushed out the federally subsidized debt before
the Dec. 31 deadline to capture the program’s 35 percent savings
on interest costs and avoid traditional tax-exempt borrowing.  U.S. issuers brought forward planned sales to this month to
capture the subsidy, making the last three months of 2010 the
biggest sales quarter since Build Americas began in April 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Government
Development Bank for Puerto Rico decided on the offering earlier
this month as it became less likely that the program would be
extended, said Arroyo.  “We started rushing around getting information; I had to
stop my treasurer from going on vacation,” he said in a
telephone interview from San Juan. “But we got it made.”  Today’s issue, backed by electricity charges, may yield
6.25 percent for 30-year bonds, he said. That’s a premium of
about  180 basis points , or 1.80 percentage points, above
comparable U.S. Treasuries. With the subsidy, the overall
interest cost to the authority may be less than 5 percent, he
said.  Power Yields  By comparison, tax-exempt 30-year debt backed by power
revenue and rated A, sixth-highest investment grade, yielded
 5.91 percent  yesterday, according to Bloomberg Fair Market Value
index. The authority is graded BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings, the third-lowest investment grade. Moody’s
Investors Service ranks the utility A3, one level higher.  The Build America rates compare with 5.72 percent yields on
long-term corporate utility obligations ranked BBB to A,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  While the rating drives up the authority’s yields, the
revenue stream is secure, said  Bud Byrnes , chief executive
officer at Encino, California-based RH Investment Corp.  “They’ll trade as cheap as any credit out there and
they’re not going to go out of business,” Byrnes said in a
telephone interview. “Consequently, there will be a market.”  Bonds of Puerto Rico, a self-governing commonwealth ceded
to the U.S. in 1898 after the Spanish-American War, offer
investors an exemption from any state tax, unlike most municipal
debt.  ‘Deal of the Week’  The authority had $10.1 billion in revenue bonds
outstanding before the sale, making it second only to the
California State Department of Water Resources, Bloomberg data
show.  “This is the deal of the week,” said  Tony Shields , a
principal in the public-finance department at Williams Capital
Group LP in New York. “There’s going to be tremendous
interest.”  The authority, a monopoly that provides electricity for 1.4
million consumers, is the largest public-power utility by number
of customers and revenue, according to preliminary offering
documents.  The proceeds will be used for Puerto Rico’s  Via Verde
project , a pipeline that will transport natural gas to several
electricity-generating plants, the documents show. Funds also
may be used to finance the authority’s capital improvement plan.  The project, which will be completed by February 2012
according to bond documents, is part of a government push to
develop alternative energy to lower fuel costs on the island.
The use of natural gas will save customers $1 billion dollars,
Arroyo said.  The authority last sold Build Americas in April, with 30-
year securities priced to yield about 6.13 percent, about 149
basis points over benchmark Treasuries. The securities traded
Dec. 20 at an average yield of 6.43 percent, or 199 basis points
above U.S. government debt.  Following is a description of a pending sale of U.S.
municipal debt:  METROPOLITAN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT OF GREATER CHICAGO ,
a wastewater utility that serves more than 5 million people,
plans to sell $500 million in taxable and tax-exempt debt as
soon as Jan. 3. The securities are top-ranked by all three major
credit-rating companies. JPMorgan Chase & Co. will lead
underwriters marketing the securities. (Added Dec. 22)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Simone Baribeau  in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  