-- Canada Sees Weaker-Than-Expected 0.2% October Growth After September Fall
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-23T21:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/canada-sees-weaker-than-expected-0-2-october-growth-after-september-fall.html
Canada’s  gross domestic product  grew
less than forecast in October after shrinking the month before,
led by gains in mining and oil and gas extraction.  Output rose 0.2 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual
rate of C$1.24 trillion ($1.22 trillion) in October following a
0.1 percent contraction in September, Statistics Canada said
today in Ottawa. Economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News called
for a 0.3 percent gain, based on the median of 21 forecasts.  A slower-than-expected recovery has prompted the Bank of
Canada to keep its  key interest rate  at 1 percent since
September after three increases earlier in the year. Policy
makers may need to provide further stimulus to support Canada’s
fading recovery, the International Monetary Fund said yesterday,
and Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said that he will have some
measures in his next budget aimed at spurring expansion.  “The Canadian economy is still moving forward, which is
good, and it suggests we have growth that is fast enough to
nibble away at economic slack,” said  Eric Lascelles , chief
economist and rates strategist at TD Securities, a unit of
Toronto-Dominion Bank. “However, it’s not particularly robust
growth and it doesn’t get you back to normal anytime soon.”  Lascelles said the October reading isn’t likely to prompt
further interest-rate increases by the central bank, because
 fourth-quarter growth  is unlikely to exceed a 2 percent
annualized rate.  Canada won’t return to full output until the end of 2012,
the central bank said in October. The bank, which will update
its outlook in January, also predicted the economy would grow at
a 2.6 percent rate in the fourth quarter.  Slowing Growth  Canada’s dollar rose 0.4 percent to C$1.0093 per U.S.
dollar at 4:29 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys 99.08
U.S. cents.  The  economic growth  rate slowed to 1 percent on an
annualized basis in the July-September period, Statistics Canada
said last month, lower than the central bank’s Oct. 20 forecast
for a 1.6 percent growth rate.  The Canadian economy will expand by 2.3 percent in 2011,
slowing from this year’s 3 percent growth, the Washington-based
IMF’s executive board said in a report yesterday.  “We don’t want a stalled economy,” Flaherty said in a
Dec. 21 interview with Bloomberg News. “We’re going to have
some measures to promote jobs and growth.”  The mining and oil and gas industries expanded 2.4 percent
in October. Wholesaling increased 0.5 percent in October, the
third straight gain, while retailing fell 0.4 percent.  Factories Decline  Factory output fell 0.6 percent in October, as
manufacturers of non-durable goods cut production 2.3 percent.  Electrolux AB, the world’s second-largest home-appliance
maker, said earlier this month it will close a cooking product
factory in Quebec, one of the final acts of its eight-year
effort to shift manufacturing to countries with lower production
costs. Electrolux will close the factory in l’Assomption,
affecting 1,300 workers.  Canada’s housing market showed signs of slowing in today’s
report, as the central bank has been predicting. A 1.7 percent
drop in residential construction led a 0.5 percent decline among
builders, the agency said.  A rise in sales of existing homes boosted real estate
agents and brokers output by 5.1 percent in October, offsetting
some of the decline in residential construction, the agency
said. Finance, insurance and real estate companies’ output
advanced 0.2 percent in October from the month before, it also
said.  ‘More Resilient’  “The Canadian economy has been a lot more resilient than
the U.S. economy over the past few years, and certainly we have
seen that in our Visa spending figures,”  Tim Wilson , head of
Visa Inc.’s Canadian unit, said in an interview last month.  Service industries rose 0.2 percent in October, as did
goods-producing industries, the statistics agency said.  Gross domestic product was 3.3 percent higher in October
than the same month a year earlier.  In a separate report, Statistics Canada said average weekly
earnings of non-farm payroll employees rose 4.4 percent in
October from a year earlier, as the number of people on the job
and hours worked both increased.  Payrolls rose by 1.7 percent from a year earlier to 14.74
million in October, and the average worker’s workweek was 2.4
percent longer at 32.9 hours, the agency said.  On a monthly basis, payrolls fell 0.1 percent while
earnings were little changed, the report said. Hours worked also
recorded little change in October from September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 