-- Cephalon Names Buchi as CEO After Founder Baldino's Death From Leukemia
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-12-23T21:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/cephalon-names-buchi-as-ceo-after-founder-baldino-s-death-from-leukemia.html
  Cephalon Inc .’s J. Kevin Buchi, who
had been serving as acting chief executive officer since August,
will take over the position following last week’s death of
company founder Frank Baldino.  Buchi, 55, as chief operating officer assumed the day-to-
day responsibilities of running the company after Baldino took a
medical leave from his CEO and chairman duties in August.
Baldino, 57, died Dec. 16 of leukemia. The company’s board
hasn’t named a new chairman, Cephalon said in a statement today.  Cephalon sells narcolepsy treatment Provigil, which last
year generated sales of $1.02 billion, about 47 percent of the
Frazer, Pennsylvania-based company’s revenue. Cephalon also has
drugs in development to treat cancer, pain, arthritis,
inflammatory conditions, and nervous system ailments, according
to Bloomberg data.  “Kevin Buchi knows this company better than anyone,” said  Marc Goodman , an analyst for UBS, in a note to investors today.
“We would expect a smooth transition with respect to the
business.”  Shares of Cephalon fell 46 cents, or less than 1 percent,
to $64 at 4 p.m.  New York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite
trading. Shares rose 3.3 percent this year before today.  Buchi joined Cephalon in 1991 as a controller, after
graduating from Cornell University with a degree in chemistry.
He served as a chemist for Eastman Kodak Co. before receiving a
master’s degree in management from  Northwestern University  in
Evanston,  Illinois . He is a certified accountant.  On Dec. 8, Cephalon Inc. took a 20 percent stake in
Mesoblast Ltd. and bought the rights to market the Australian
company’s adult stem-cell therapies for heart and nervous system
conditions in a deal potentially worth more than $2 billion. The
agreement is the biggest involving stem-cell therapies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 