-- China's Stocks Fall as Developers, Smaller Companies Slide on Tightening
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-23T07:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/china-s-stocks-fall-as-developers-smaller-companies-slide-on-tightening.html
China’s stocks  fell for a second day
as the government stepped up scrutiny of real estate investments
and on concerns it may become more expensive for smaller
companies to borrow money after a gauge of lending costs jumped.  China Vanke Co.  dropped more than 1.5 percent, leading
losses for property developers, after the Ministry of Commerce
ordered local authorities to halt the approval of some foreign
property investments to curb speculative buying.  Shenzhen Laibao
High-technology Co. , a manufacturer of conductive glass for
touch screens, led a gauge of smaller companies to a two-week
low. The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures lending costs
between banks, jumped to the highest level since October 2007.  “Uncertainty over further controls is ruling the market,”
said Deng Changrong, a strategist at Huaxi Securities Co. in
Shenzhen. “As the market lacks liquidity at the moment, there’s
no support for a strong rebound.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, lost 22.68, or 0.8 percent, to 2,855.22
as of 3 p.m. The  CSI 300 Index  fell 0.8 percent to 3,188.61. The
CSI Smallcap 500 Index, with an average company market cap of
7.1 billion yuan, slid 2 percent to the lowest since Dec. 10.  The  Shanghai Composite , the worst performer among major
Asian benchmarks this year, has dropped 13 percent this year on
concern that monetary tightening will curb economic growth.  A gauge of property companies in the Shanghai Composite
dropped 0.7 percent.  China Vanke , the nation’s largest developer,
retreated 1.8 percent to 8.84 yuan.  Property Investment  China will bar overseas companies from profiting by the
purchase or sale of properties already completed or under
construction in the nation, the Ministry of Commerce said in a
statement. The ministry will strengthen review of property
projects with foreign-currency inflows, according to a Nov. 22
statement that was posted on its website yesterday.  Home prices in 70 Chinese cities climbed 7.7 percent in
November from a year earlier, even after the government raised
borrowing costs for the first time in three years, suspended
mortgages for third-home purchases and pledged to introduce a
property tax. Sales volume jumped 15 percent.  China’s benchmark money-market rate surged to a three-year
high as banks hoard cash before the New Year holiday. The seven-
day repo rate jumped 150 basis points to 5.67 percent, according
to a daily fixing published at 11 a.m. by the National Interbank
Funding Center. Policymakers on Dec. 10 ordered lenders to park
more money with the central bank for the third time in five
weeks to limit inflation.  Smallcap Losses  Shenzhen Laibao paced losses for small companies, dropping
3.7 percent to 62.40 yuan. Yunnan Green-Land Biological
Technology Co. slumped by the 10 percent daily limit to 34.32
yuan after the company said 43.3 million shares held by
controlling shareholder  He Xuekui  have been frozen by the public
security department.  The city of Beijing, ranked as having the world’s worst
traffic, introduced measures including limiting the number of
new passenger vehicles in the capital to ease congested roads.  The city will issue new license plates through a lottery
and require passenger vehicles that aren’t registered in Beijing
to apply for a permit before entering the capital, according to
a statement distributed before a municipal government press
briefing today. The restriction on out-of-town passenger
vehicles begins Jan. 1, according to the statement.  SAIC Motor Corp., China’s largest automaker by market
value, declined 1.6 percent to 16 yuan. Beiqi Foton Motor
Co. dropped 2 percent to 26.06 yuan.  The National Development and Reform Commission has
submitted a proposal for a 7.5 trillion yuan loan quota for the
next year to the State Council, The Economic Observer said,
without citing anybody.  The People’s Bank of China had initially proposed a quota
of 6.5 trillion yuan and the NDRC, as the national planner is
known, had suggested 8 trillion yuan, the report said.  Banks Gain  Industrial Bank Co. advanced 1.7 percent to 24.60 yuan.
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s third-largest by
assets, rose 0.4 percent to 2.63 yuan.  Aluminum Corp. of China led gains for metal producers,
climbing 1.7 percent to 10.59 yuan. Yunnan Aluminum Co. gained
4.6 percent to 12.35 yuan.  Aluminum for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange rose 1.1 percent yesterday to the highest since Nov. 9.  -- Zhang Shidong ,  Irene Shen . With assistance from  Judy Chen 
in Shanghai. Editors:  Allen Wan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net ;
 Irene Shen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  