-- Shanghai Stocks Decline as Banks, Developers Retreat; Metal Producers Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-23T04:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/china-s-stock-futures-rise-on-commodity-gains-interest-rate-speculation.html
China’s stocks  fell for a second day,
led by banks and developers, after the government stepped up
scrutiny of real estate investments and a measure of lending
costs between banks jumped to the highest in three years.  China Vanke Co.  and  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  paced
losses for developers and banks after the Ministry of Commerce
ordered local authorities to halt the approval of some foreign
property investments to curb speculative buying.  Aluminum Corp.
of China Ltd.  jumped 3.1 percent, leading gains for metal stocks.  “Uncertainty over further controls is ruling the market,”
said Deng Changrong, a strategist at Huaxi Securities Co. in
Shenzhen. “As the market lacks liquidity at the moment, there’s
no support for a strong rebound.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, slid 15.5, or 0.5 percent, to 2,862.44
as of 11:30 a.m. The  CSI 300 Index  fell 0.5 percent to 3,199.41.
The  Shanghai Composite , the worst performer among major Asian
benchmarks this year, has fallen 9.4 percent since reaching an
almost seven-month high on Nov. 8, on concern that monetary
tightening will curb economic growth. The gauge has lost 13
percent this year.  A gauge of property companies in the Shanghai Composite
dropped 0.5 percent.  China Vanke , the nation’s largest developer,
retreated 1.8 percent to 8.84 yuan. Poly Real Estate Group Co.
slid 1.5 percent to 13.58 yuan.  Property Investment  China will bar overseas companies from profiting by the
purchase or sale of properties already completed or under
construction in the nation, the Ministry of Commerce said in a
statement. The ministry will strengthen review of property
projects with foreign-currency inflows, according to a Nov. 22
statement that was posted on its website yesterday.  Home prices in 70 Chinese cities climbed 7.7 percent in
November from a year earlier, even after the government raised
borrowing costs for the first time in three years, suspended
mortgages for third-home purchases and pledged to introduce a
property tax. Sales volume jumped 15 percent.  China’s benchmark money-market rate surged to a three-year
high as banks hoard cash before the New Year holiday. The seven-
day repo rate, which measures lending costs between banks,
jumped 150 basis points to 5.67 percent, the highest level since
October 2007, according to a daily fixing published at 11 a.m.
by the National Interbank Funding Center.  The  seven-day repurchase rate  rallied even after the
central bank pumped a total of 26 billion yuan ($3.9 billion) of
capital into the financial market this week, a sixth net weekly
 injection , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Policy
makers on Dec. 10 ordered lenders to park more money with the
central bank for the third time in five weeks to limit inflation.  Loan Risks  “Banks are collecting money to prepare for cash-withdrawal
demand during the holiday and to meet the loan-to-deposit ratio
requirement at the end of each month,” said  Liu Junyu , a
Shenzhen-based bond analyst at China Merchants Bank Co., the
nation’s sixth largest lender. “Every one is badly short of
money after making the payments for the reserve ratio hike on
Monday.”  China’s higher risk-weighting requirements on loans to
local governments may cut pretax profits of the banking sector
by 13.1 percent, Deutsche Bank AG said in a report.  Agricultural Bank of China is likely to be most affected by
the rule, which may lower the lender’s pretax profit by 46.2
percent, followed by China Minsheng Banking Corp. with a 14.9
percent reduction, Deutsche analysts  Tracy Yu  and  Judy Zhang 
wrote in the report dated yesterday.  Agricultural Bank lost 0.4 percent to 2.61 yuan. Industrial
and Commercial Bank of China Ltd. retreated 0.2 percent to 4.17
yuan.  Metal Stocks  Qingdao Haier Co. led declines for consumer discretionary
companies, the  worst performing group  in the CSI 300 today.
Qingdao Haier slid 2.7 percent to 27.41 yuan.  Aluminum Corp. of China led gains for metal producers,
jumping 3.1 percent to 10.73. Yunnan Aluminum Co. gained 7.1
percent to 12.65 yuan.  Aluminum for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange rose 1.1 percent yesterday to the highest since Nov. 9.  The Securities and Exchange Commission’s probe into
auditors of China-based companies listed on U.S. share exchanges
is a signal for investors to approach these stocks with caution,
said International Strategy & Investment Group.  “This is the ultimate ‘buyer beware’ sector of
investing,” said  Donald Straszheim , director of China research
at ISI, who was ranked first in the Macro and Economics
categories in Institutional Investor magazine’s 2009 survey.
Individual investors “would perhaps be well served to just stay
away. Even the most sophisticated institutional investors in the
world often avoid the opacity and risks,” he said.  Auditors have come under scrutiny for signing the financial
statements of China-based firms accessing U.S. markets through
reverse mergers, in which a closely held company acquires a
publicly traded company and can then sell shares without an
initial public offering.  -- Irene Shen . With assistance from  Zhang Shidong  and  Judy Chen 
in Shanghai. Editors:  Allen Wan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Irene Shen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  