-- China Promotes Zhang, Envoy to North Korea, to No. 2 in Foreign Ministry
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-23T04:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/china-promotes-zhang-envoy-to-north-korea-to-no-2-in-foreign-ministry.html
China promoted  Zhang Zhijun , who
traveled to North Korea at least five times this year, to the
second-most important post in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.  Zhang, 57, was named Party Secretary at the ministry,
making him the senior vice minister. He replaces Wang Guangya,
who transferred to head the State Council’s Hong Kong and Macau
Affairs Office, according to a statement from the  Work Committee
for Central Government Organs  on Dec. 21.  The appointment comes as China faces pressure from the
U.S., Japan, and South Korea to push King Jong Il’s regime to
change its behavior after the North’s Nov. 23 deadly shelling of
a South Korean island in disputed waters. Zhang last week said
China was “deeply concerned” at the “extremely precarious”
situation on the peninsula, Xinhua News Agency reported.  Zhang accompanied State Councilor Dai Bingguo on a visit to
Pyongyang earlier this month for talks with Kim, state-run
Korean Central News Agency reported on Dec. 9. A week earlier he
was also in North Korea with a parliamentary delegation.  Prior to his appointment as vice minister in the Foreign
Ministry in 2009, Zhang was vice minister at the International
Department of the Central Committee of the  Communist Party of
China  from 2000 to 2009. Under China’s Party-driven political
system, the International Department handles relations with the
Workers Party of Korea.  Ties between the two parties date back to the struggle to
oust colonial power Japan from northeast China and Korea before
World War II. The alliance deepened during the 1950-1953 Korean
War, when China fought alongside North Korea against the South
and U.S.-led United Nations forces.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  