-- U.S. Says China Failed to Implement WTO Commitments, May File Complaint
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-12-23T21:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/china-has-failed-to-implement-wto-pledges-u-s-says-update1-.html
The U.S. said China failed to
implement “important commitments” under its obligations to the
World Trade Organization, and said it may file a complaint over
that nation’s restraints on exports of rare earths.  China is using “excessive, trade-distorting government
intervention” to the disadvantage of American companies, the
U.S. Trade Representative’s office said today in its annual
report on China’s compliance with WTO rules.  Trade tensions have increased as China reported a record
$153.3 billion of exports for November and U.S. lawmakers called
for legislation on Chinese imports to combat any advantages from
what they say is an undervalued yuan. The U.S. filed a WTO
complaint against China yesterday, contending that favoritism
toward domestic-made wind turbines is an unfair trade barrier.  Among issues highlighted today were China’s export
constraints on minerals such as magnesium, silicon, zinc and
rare earths.  “These types of export restraints can significantly
distort trade, and for that reason WTO rules,” the trade office
said in its report. “In the case of China, the trade-distortive
impact can be exacerbated because of the size of China’s
production capacity.”  Rare Earths  Rare-earth minerals are used in electric cars, wind
turbines and weapons, and at least 90 percent are produced in
China.  The U.S. said it pressed China to remove any limit on the
export of rare earths before a meeting of trade officials from
both nations this month. No agreement was announced.  “The United States will continue these efforts in 2011
while also considering other options for addressing China’s use
of export restraints, including WTO dispute settlement, if
appropriate,” the trade office said.  The U.S. issued the report less than a month before Chinese
President Hu Jintao is scheduled to visit President Barack Obama
at the White House. U.S. businesses have grown increasingly
critical of a series of Chinese policies aimed at boosting
research and innovation among its domestic companies.  “China continued to pursue industrial policies in 2010
that seek to limit market access for non-Chinese origin goods
and foreign suppliers of services, while offering substantial
government resources to support Chinese industries,” the trade
office said in the  report . “The principal beneficiaries of
these policies are less competitive state-owned enterprises.”  China is the third-largest U.S. export market with $69.5
billion of sales in 2009. Sales of goods and services by U.S.
companies in China reached $98.4 billion, more than a fourfold
jump from 2000, according to the U.S.-China Business Council, a
Washington-based group that represents companies such as  Wal-
Mart Stores Inc.  and  Citigroup Inc.   “Despite the many challenges that remain, China’s WTO
membership has continued to provide substantial ongoing benefits
to the United States,” the trade office said in its 124-page
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  