-- China Steps Up Property Curbs With Land Supply, Review of Foreign Buying
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-23T07:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/china-steps-up-property-curbs-with-land-supply-review-of-foreign-buying.html
China increased land supply this
year and stepped up the scrutiny of real estate investments by
foreign companies as it rolls out more measures to contain 18
months of gains in property prices.  China’s land supply rose 48 percent to 128,200 hectares in
the first 11 months, while sites for residential developments
surged 51 percent, the Land and Resources Ministry said in a
statement. The Commerce Ministry ordered local authorities to
halt the approval of some foreign property investments to curb
speculative buying, it said in a Nov. 22 statement that was
posted on its  website  yesterday.  Home prices  in 70 Chinese cities climbed 7.7 percent in
November from a year earlier, even after the government raised
borrowing costs for the first time in three years, suspended
mortgages for third-home purchases and pledged to introduce a
property tax. Sales volume jumped 15 percent.  “The pace for land acquisitions in the private sector will
slow next year,” said  Johnson Hu , a Shanghai-based property
analyst at UOB Kay Hian Investment Co. “The government is
tightening lending on one hand, but on the other, it’s launching
new land supplies.”  The Land and Resources Ministry said it noticed high land
prices in some areas in November as competition increased. The
statement yesterday didn’t identify where the locations were.
The increased supply will ensure that it meets its target for
5.8 million lower-income homes this year, the ministry said.  Beijing, Shanghai  A  gauge  tracking developers’ stocks on the Shanghai
Composite Index fell 0.7 percent at the 3:00 p.m. close. China
Vanke Co., the country’s biggest developer, lost 1.8 percent in
Shenzhen, and China State Construction Engineering Corp.
declined 1.4 percent in Shanghai.  Land income for Beijing’s city government is expected to
exceed 150 billion yuan ($23 billion) this year, competing with
Shanghai as the country’s top seller of property, the official
Xinhua News agency  reported  today.  Chinese developers have met or exceeded their sales targets
for the year.  China Vanke  said this month it became the first
Chinese developer to post annual sales of 100 billion yuan,
reaching a target it had set for 2014 and defying government
measures to cool the real estate market.  While property prices climbed, the real estate stocks  gauge 
lost 24 percent this year, twice the decline on the benchmark
measure and the  worst performer  among five industry groups.  Foreign Exchange Inflows  The government also told local authorities to strengthen
their reviews of foreign exchange inflows for real estate
transactions and documentation for land rights, according to
the statement from the Commerce Ministry, which oversees foreign
investment in China.  “It’s very likely that the government may control foreign
currency inflows when it comes to property, say make the
ownership timeframe longer,” Hu said.  Foreign investment in China’s property sector rose 48
percent to $20.1 billion in the first 11 months, the Commerce
Ministry said Dec. 15, more than twice the 17.7 percent increase
in the country’s total overseas inflows.  China will step up its review of projects by foreign
companies and verify more data for the industry after it noticed
faster growth in overseas investments this year,  Yao Jian , a
Commerce Ministry spokesman, said in Beijing last month.  -- Bonnie Cao . Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Andreea Papuc   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  