-- CIMB Looks to Gulf After Beating HSBC as Top Underwriter: Islamic Finance
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 2010-12-23T09:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/cimb-looks-to-gulf-after-beating-hsbc-as-top-underwriter-islamic-finance.html
CIMB Group  Holdings Bhd., the top
global sukuk underwriter for a fourth year, is seeking to boost
its business in the Persian Gulf to fight off HSBC Holdings
Plc’s challenge to its dominance.  The Southeast Asian nation’s second-biggest lender arranged
$3.6 billion of notes complying with Islam’s ban on receiving
and paying interest in 2010, or 23 percent of the total, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Persian Gulf issues made up 3.5
percent of CIMB’s business this year. The Kuala Lumpur-based
bank beat HSBC into second place for a fourth year. Global sukuk
sales totaled $15.3 billion so far this year, 24 percent less
than in 2009. Sales reached a record $31 billion in 2007.  “We should be able to do better” in 2011,  Badlisyah Abdul Ghani , chief executive officer of CIMB Bank Islamic Bhd., said
in a telephone interview Dec. 22. “With the infrastructure
developments in Malaysia and the Gulf Cooperation Council
countries, I anticipate sukuk issuance will be about the same as
2007 or better. We are looking at several deals from the Gulf.”  CIMB’s only Persian Gulf deal this year was a $125 million
sale in October for a unit of Saudi Arabia’s Islamic Development
Bank. The bank also helped arrange IDB’s debt issuance in 2009.  HSBC arranged $1.6 billion of sukuk sales in the Middle
East to be the biggest underwriter in the region for a second
year with 35 percent of sales, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The London-based bank expects issuance from Persian
Gulf states to climb in 2011 as it tries to break CIMB’s
dominance of the global Shariah-compliant market.  Malaysian Market  “Next year, we expect issuances from Saudi and the region
to improve,”  Mohammed Dawood , Dubai-based director of debt
capital markets at HSBC Amanah, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “As a consequence that puts us in good shape to
capture that top spot in 2011.”  CIMB helped Malaysia sell $1.25 billion of global sukuk
this year with HSBC and Barclays Capital and assisted  Celcom
Axiata Bhd. , the nation’s second-largest mobile-phone operator,
with a 1.8 billion ringgit ($575 million) bond in August.  The bank has been hired by Dubai as lead arranger for a
planned sale of $1 billion to $1.5 billion of multi-currency
Islamic bonds in Malaysia, a person with knowledge of the plan,
who asked not to be identified as the details are private, said
last month. Badlisyah declined to comment on the matter.  A Malaysian government 10-year private-led project
initiative, including a nuclear power plant and an underground
rail network, will spur sales of Shariah-compliant debt next
year, Kuala Lumpur-based RHB Investment Management Sdn.’s Chief
Executive Officer  Sharifatul Hanizah Said Ali  said Dec. 15.  Saudi Stimulus  Saudi Arabian companies may overtake Malaysia as the
largest issuer of Islamic bonds for the first time in 2011 as
the kingdom’s 1.44 trillion-riyal ($384 billion) stimulus plan
boosts spending,  Tariq Al-Rifai , director of Islamic Market
Indexes in Dubai for Dow Jones Indexes, said Dec. 17. The
world’s largest oil exporter announced in August a five-year
development plan to spur growth, create jobs and diversify its
economy away from hydrocarbons.  HSBC arranged $2.6 billion of sukuk in 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Kuala Lumpur-based Maybank
Investment Bank Bhd. and AmInvestment Bank Bhd. ranked third and
fourth. Three of the top four underwriters are based in Malaysia
and arranged 39 percent of Islamic bond sales this year. The
country’s investment banks have an advantage in the sukuk market
as the nation’s issuers account for more than half of the $144
billion of Shariah-compliant debt outstanding.  Sales by Persian Gulf borrowers in Malaysia surged to 1
billion ringgit ($318 million) this year, the most since 2008
when Gulf companies started tapping the Malaysian market, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Last year, 100 million-ringgit of
debt was sold. Total Islamic bond issuance in the Gulf has
declined 32 percent to $4.5 billion so far this year.  NBAD Sale  “If there is more Gulf issuance next year, then it’s
likely that a regional bank with strong local corporate ties
will be on a lot of those deals, even if Gulf companies sell
ringgit sukuk,”  Khalid Howladar , a Dubai-based senior credit
officer at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a telephone
interview Dec. 22.  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the United Arab Emirates’
second-largest lender by assets, sold 500 million ringgit of 10-
year sukuk this month. The bank’s 4.75 percent ringgit-
denominated sukuk due June 2015 yielded 4.02 percent when the
debt last traded Nov. 19, according to prices provided by Bursa
Malaysia Bhd.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic notes due
June 2015 was little changed at 3 percent today, according to
prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  More Gulf Action  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s government
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s has narrowed 74 basis points, or
0.74 percentage point, since June 30 to 342, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The yield on Dubai’s 6.396 percent sukuk due
November 2014 was little changed at 6.50 percent today,
according to Bloomberg data.  Global sukuk returned 12.6 percent this year, according to
the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . Emerging-market
debt returned 11.9 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global
Diversified Index  shows.  The  difference  between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed 170
basis points this year to 298 yesterday, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . In the GCC, the gap
shrank 177 basis points to 368.  Ringgit Remains Significant  CIMB is working on ringgit-denominated sukuk in January
from both Malaysian corporate and government entities, with
“initial issuances” from 500 million ringgit to 1 billion
ringgit, Badlisyah said.  “As far as prospects are concerned, the ringgit issuances
will remain significant for 2011, but definitely there will be
more issuances out of the gulf as the market has stabilized,”
he said. “I think you’ll probably see a fairly balanced
composition for next year in terms of dollar issuances and local
currency issuances.”  CIMB has “the largest reach and the biggest pool of
investors,”  Edward Iskandar Toh , a fixed income manager at
Areca Capital Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “They have been very aggressive and very
professional and with more Gulf issuers looking at Malaysia,
CIMB’s set to continue to lead.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ; Suryani Omar in Singapore
at   somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  