-- Clean Technology Set to Accelerate in 2011, Ernst & Young Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-12-23T12:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/clean-technology-industry-set-to-accelerate-in-2011-ernst-young-says.html
Investments in clean technologies
from electric cars to light-emitting diodes are set to
accelerate next year after gathering momentum in 2011, the
global accounting firm Ernst & Young said.  Venture capital plowed into companies including renewable
power generators and makers of batteries and biofuels rose 25
percent in the first three quarters of 2010 from the same period
last year, and is set to total $4.9 billion by year-end, the
company said today in a report. Share sales in the sector this
year have grown 75 percent to $9.1 billion, led by Enel Green
Power SpA’s $3.1 billion offering, it said.  Governments such as China, South Korea, Brazil and the U.K.
have spurred growth in carbon-cutting technologies, driven by
the desire to create jobs, achieve energy security by reducing
the need for imported fossil fuels, and ensure competitive
advantage in the future,  Gil Forer , global cleantech leader at
Ernst & Young, said today in a telephone interview.  “Governments have really realized the essence and benefits
of cleantech and at the corporate level there’s an acceleration
of activity on the investment and acquisition side,” Forer
said. “We definitely expect it will continue to accelerate in
2011 and going forward.”  Forer said he hadn’t produced any numeric forecasts for
growth of the industry next year.  While investments in clean technologies have increased,
company shares have declined. The  WilderHill New Energy Index  of
87 companies developing low-carbon technologies has slid about
15 percent this year compared with a 13 percent rise in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Forer said that’s not necessarily
the best gauge of the sector’s health.  ‘Lab to Market’  “The cleantech IPOs behaved no differently than other IPOs
this year,” Forer said. “Some were below expected pricing,
others were above. Investment bankers have no difficulty in
getting interest from investors in cleantech companies.”  Technologies including LEDs, electric vehicles and
replacements for oil-based chemicals are now moving “from the
lab to the market,” an indication of the growing maturity of
cleaner products, Forer said.  While China is now “definitely the leader” in spurring
clean technologies, the U.S. “is still a very strong number
two,” he said.  Growing global population and demand, the need for secure
energy supplies, and the fight against climate change all will
continue to spur the industry, Forer said.  “Those drivers haven’t reduced in importance, and the
response from government can corporations is accelerating,”
Forer said. “You have all the ingredients to say there’s no
reason not to be optimistic in 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 