-- Collahuasi Says Port May Be Shut ‘Couple of Months’
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-12-23T21:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/collahuasi-port-may-be-closed-for-couple-of-months-duran-says.html
The port at  Anglo American Plc  and
 Xstrata Plc’s  Collahuasi venture, the world’s third-largest
copper mine, may remain closed for “a couple of months” after
a Dec. 18 accident, said Anglo’s head of Chilean operations.  The company continues to assess a timeframe for reopening
the Patache port as it seeks an alternative outlet before
running out of space at the mine site to stockpile ore,  Miguel Angel Duran  told reporters in Santiago today. Collahuasi
processes ore into concentrate, an intermediary product that’s
transported by pipeline to Patache.  “We are optimistic about finding the solution that will
allow us to keep operating at Collahuasi without impacting
production,” Duran said. “We are looking at several options.”  Collahuasi declared force majeure on Dec. 20 after a ship-
loader at the port collapsed, killing three people. The
disruption helped send prices of the metal to record highs.
Force majeure is a legal clause invoked by companies when they
can’t meet obligations because of circumstances beyond their
control.  “The first very preliminary report talked about one month
but it will probably be a lot more than that,” Duran said in
reference to the Patache port closure. It could take “a couple
of months,” he said, without elaborating.  A month-long strike by unionized workers at the same mine
may affect annual production targets, Duran said Dec. 14. The
strike ended Dec. 7. Anglo and Xstrata each own 44 percent of
the mine. A group led by Mitsui & Co. holds the remainder.  Collahuasi produced 535,000 metric tons last year, or 3.5
percent of global output, according to Standard Bank Plc. Its
production is only surpassed by Escondida and Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc.’s Grasberg mine in Indonesia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  