-- College Football Winners Still Lose as Bowl Costs Exceed Payout
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2010-12-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/college-football-winners-still-lose-as-bowl-game-expenses-exceed-payout.html
Rutgers University celebrated its 8-
4 record last football season with a trip to the  St. Petersburg
Bowl  in Florida. Big East Conference schools got stuck with a
$740,000 bill.  The  Scarlet Knights’  story isn’t unique in college
football. Payouts for all but the biggest bowl games seldom
match teams’ expenses, and the rest of the schools in the
conference have to subsidize them, according to financial
records obtained by Bloomberg News using open records laws.  There were  33 bowls played  last year, not including the
national championship game. At least 13 schools spent more to
play in the game than their conferences received in
compensation. According to figures from public universities
where open-records laws apply, those losses totaled more than
$3.8 million, even as taxpayer subsidies for athletic
departments are on the rise and athletic programs are falling
deeper in debt.  “Bowls have become network-owned, commercial enterprises,
in some cases, pitting average teams in money-losing bowls for
the benefit of a few,” said  Charles E. Young , 79, president
emeritus at the University of Florida and a member of the Knight
Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics. “I think the losses
are higher than anyone knows.”  League commissioners including  Wright Waters  of the Sun
Belt Conference, who are usually responsible for negotiating the
money-losing bowl agreements, say these games aren’t about
profit; they’re meant to promote the school and give athletes a
chance to experience postseason play.  Find Balance  “At what point does the projected economic impact of a
bowl reach the point where you say, ‘This makes sense, it’s a
win-win,’” said New Mexico State Athletic Director McKinley
Boston. “As opposed to, ‘You win, I subsidize your tourism
business, and the economic impact is great for you, but it
destroys everybody else’s budget.’”  This year, there will be 34 postseason  bowl games  excluding
the national championship, ending Jan. 9 with the Fight Hunger
Bowl. The championship game, pitting Auburn University against
the University of Oregon, will be played the following day in
Glendale, Arizona.  The five games comprising the  Bowl Championship Series  are
the most lucrative. Six conferences -- the Atlantic Coast, Big
East, Big Ten, Big 12, Pac-10 and Southeastern -- are under
contract to send their champions to those bowls; each received
$18.9 million last season, according to  Bill Hancock , executive
director of the Prairie Village, Kansas-based BCS.  Schools that play in lower-paying bowls burn up some of the
money that is coming into the conference from the richest ones.  Rutgers’s Bill  The Big East, for instance, received $400,000 for Rutgers’s
participation in the St. Petersburg Bowl last season, according
to college sports’ governing body, the  National Collegiate
Athletic Association . It cost the Scarlet Knights $1.14 million
to attend, according to Rutgers financial records. The league
pools money from all of its bowl appearances, pays expenses to
the teams that played in them, then divides the rest among all
schools.  The difference in what Rutgers earned for the league by
appearing in the bowl and what it spent to go came out of that
pool, reducing the cut that each school got when the money is
split up. Big East Commissioner  John Marinatto  wouldn’t disclose
the formula the league uses to determine how much each
university gets from bowl payouts.  According to Rutgers’s financial records, the conference
gave the New Brunswick, New Jersey, school a $1.33 million
revenue-sharing check -- based on the BCS distribution, bowl
payouts and conference television revenue.  The Big East also booked losses from South Florida’s
appearance in the International Bowl ($428,000) and
Connecticut’s appearance in the Papajohns.com Bowl ($430,000),
university records said.  Bowl Losses  Other examples of bowls where participants spent more to
attend than they earned for their conferences in the payout
include the New Mexico Bowl, where Fresno State spent $390,000
more than the Western Athletic Conference received; the Texas
Bowl, where Missouri spent $467,000 more than the Big 12
Conference received; and the  New Orleans Bowl , where Middle
Tennessee State University’s appearance cost the Sun Belt
Conference at least $50,000.  “I buy television, and I buy bowl access,” Sun Belt
Commissioner Waters said in an interview. “I do it for the
exposure for our schools and the enhancement of recruitment, and
all the things that go with additional TV and bowl
opportunities.”  An  NCAA report  released in August for fiscal year 2008-09
said 14 athletic departments of the 120 schools in college
football’s bowl subdivision had an operating profit, down from
25 in 2006-07 and 2007-08.  Growth in athletic revenue slowed to 5.8 percent in 2008-
09, from 17 percent the previous year, while median expenses
grew 10.9 percent, compared with 5.5 percent a year earlier, the
report said.  Rutgers Debt  Rutgers is an example of a school that spent its way to
national prominence, playing in five straight bowl games, while
mired in debt.  The Scarlet Knights’ athletic department received almost
half its $58.5 million in revenue in 2008-09 from state
subsidies and student fees, with $17.9 million coming from the
university and $7.8 million in student fees. The school cut six
sports teams to reduce expenses in 2007. None of its programs
were profitable in the fiscal year ended 2009, according to the
school.  Rutgers Athletic Director  Tim Pernetti  said attending bowl
games helps him build his football program and neither he nor
the conference wants to give them up. Instead, they’ll look more
closely at expenses.  “The best-case scenario is the payouts going up,”
Pernetti said in an interview. “But we also have to focus on
keeping our budget tight and constantly look for ways to trim
costs.”  This year, Rutgers finished 4-8 and won’t play in a bowl.  Change Unlikely  Former Stanford Athletic Director  Ted Leland , now vice
president for external relations at the University of the
Pacific in Stockton, California, says the system isn’t likely to
change.  “It’s too late to put any kind of controls on the
conferences anymore,” Leland said in an interview. “Everyone’s
economic interests from the coaches to the commissioners are
aligned now and they all benefit from playing in a bowl game.”  Leland notes that teams can qualify for a bowl with a 6-6
regular-season record and a losing conference mark. Texas A&M
(6-6 overall, 3-5 in the Big 12), Minnesota (6-6, 3-5 in the Big
Ten) and UCLA (6-6, 3-6 in the Pac 10) were among eight teams
that played in a bowl game last year without posting a winning
record.  Bowl Participants  This year, 14 schools will play in a bowl game after
finishing 6-6. Illinois, Georgia and Tennessee are among them.  “If you are a conference commissioner and vote not to go
to a bowl game, you’d lose your job,” Leland said. “The
athletic director would be viewed as disloyal to the football
program and to the coaches who want their bonuses.”  The NCAA says the responsibility of signing contracts with
bowls falls directly on the conferences. The NCAA has no plans
to require bowls to increase payouts enough to cover teams’
expenses, something that would probably decrease the number of
bowls, said  Nick Carparelli  Jr., chairman of the organization’s
bowl licensing subcommittee and Big East Conference associate
commissioner.  Requiring bowl owners to reimburse school expenses would be
foolish because they’d have no control over those costs, said
Pete Derzis, senior vice president and general manager of ESPN
Regional Television. The Walt Disney Co.-owned network televised
73 percent of bowl games last year and owned seven, according to
the company.  ‘Arbitrary’ Number  “I don’t think we would be willing to meet some arbitrary
expense line-item that some institution submits,” Derzis said
in an interview. “Our expectation is that the conferences know
what they need to make their business work.”  Bowls have their roots in promoting tourism. Michigan
played Stanford in 1902 in what would become the Rose Bowl in an
effort by organizers to show off Pasadena, California’s weather
to Easterners, according to the Rose Bowl’s  history .  Today, hosts still benefit. The New Orleans Bowl in
Louisiana last year, where 30,228 people watched Middle
Tennessee defeat Southern Mississippi, had an  economic impact  of
$15 million, according to the New Orleans Convention and
Visitors Bureau. The five BCS games in January 2009 had an
economic impact of about $1.2 billion on the host cities (Miami,
New Orleans, Pasadena and Glendale), according to the BCS
website.  Ticket Sales  The Mid-American Conference had negotiated an agreement
with the  Little Caesars Pizza Bowl  where their school’s payout
was based solely on how many tickets it could sell,  Ohio
University  Associate Athletic Director Dan Hauser said in an
interview.  The Athens, Ohio, school received 10,000 tickets valued at
$450,000. It sold 2,181 tickets, generating $98,150, for a game
in Detroit about 278 miles north, at 1 p.m. the day after
Christmas.  Since its expenses were $164,464, the school lost $66,314
playing in the game, according to university records.  “There was a cost, but this is our business,” Hauser
said. “We’re about getting kids to the postseason in every
sport, men’s and women’s. And they all cost money.”  Extra Practice  Athletic directors like Rutgers’ Pernetti and Idaho’s Rob
Spear say one of the biggest advantages in playing a bowl game
is the extra two weeks of practice coaches get to work with
underclassmen. The NCAA limits the number of practices a team
can have each season, but gives bowl teams an additional two
weeks.  “Where it really made the difference was this spring,”
Spear said in an interview. “We are getting into more homes and
we’ve been able to talk to better caliber student athletes. Does
that mean we’ll get that kid at the end of the day? I don’t
know, but at least it opens the door.”  Bowls also mean payouts to coaches and administrators.  Rutgers paid $186,250 to the coaching staff for its
participation in the St. Petersburg Bowl, including $50,000 to
head coach  Greg Schiano . Non-football staff received another
$89,517. Pernetti didn’t get a bonus, according to the school.  Pernetti said even the greatest supporters of money-losing
bowls are being forced to consider the expense of playing in the
games.  “There has not been an AD meeting with the commissioner
and league where we have not discussed the issue,” Pernetti
said. “We talk about it constantly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  