-- Comcast Must Allow Online Video From Rivals to Win Approval for NBC Deal
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-12-23T21:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/comcast-to-get-fcc-conditions-today-for-completing-nbc-universal-takeover.html
Comcast Corp.  must agree to let
subscribers view online video from competitors to win approval
from regulators to buy NBC Universal, according to proposed
conditions outlined by a U.S. agency today.  Comcast also must sell programs to rivals, and allow
competing programmers to reach its video subscribers, said
officials at the Federal Communications Commission, which is
reviewing the deal.  The conditions are among recommendations FCC Chairman
 Julius Genachowski  sent to fellow commissioners, agency
officials said during a telephone news conference in Washington.  Genachowski has concluded that the deal, with conditions,
satisfies the public-interest standard Comcast must meet, the
officials said. The officials declined to be individually
identified because the proposal hasn’t been made public.  FCC commissioners -- three Democrats including Genachowski
and two Republicans -- can accept, strengthen or dilute the
conditions before the agency votes on the merger. The officials
said they weren’t sure when the vote would take place.  Comcast is “gratified” by Genachowski’s action, Executive
Vice President  David Cohen  said in an e-mailed statement. “We
look forward to an expeditious vote in January by the full
commission approving the transaction.”  ‘Very Bad News’  U.S. Senator  Bernie Sanders , a Vermont independent, in a
statement called Genachowski’s action “very bad news” and said
it would lead to “a monolithic media superpower.” He said the
FCC should reject the merger.  Comcast, the largest U.S. cable company, would gain control
of the NBC television network, broadcast stations, cable
channels such as MSNBC and USA Network, a library of more than
4,000 movies, and part ownership of the Hulu online video
service.  The Philadelphia-based company said yesterday it doesn’t
expect the deal to buy the  General Electric Co.  unit to close
until January.  Commissioners will “probably want more than a few days to
review what is expected to be a lengthy order,”  Rebecca Arbogast  and  David Kaut , Washington-based analysts for Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., said in a note to clients yesterday.  The proposed conditions may help  Netflix Inc. ,  Amazon.com
Inc. ,  Google Inc.  and  Apple Inc.  distribute Comcast-owned
programming via online video services, Arbogast and Kaut said in
a note to clients today.  Submitting to Arbitration  Comcast may be required to submit to arbitration in
disputes about its programming from its regional sports networks
and NBC-owned TV stations, Arbogast and Kaut said. Such
conditions could help rival video providers  DirecTV , Dish
Network Corp.,  AT&T Inc.  and  Verizon Communications Inc. ,
Arbogast and Kaut said.  Comcast told FCC officials that conditions relating to
online video should be of limited duration, the company said in
a disclosure  filing posted today  on the agency’s website.  If arbitration is required, participants should be able to
appeal any ruling to the commission, Comcast said in the filing.  There’s no basis for a condition barring Comcast from
interfering with subscribers’ Web traffic, since the agency’s
adoption of open-Internet rules on Dec. 21 “resolves any
concerns in this area,” according to Comcast’s filing.  Viacom Wants Conditions  The enlarged Comcast would have increased incentive and
ability to use its market power to the detriment of independent
programmers,  Viacom Inc.  told FCC officials, according to a
 disclosure filing  posted today on the agency’s website. Viacom,
owner of MTV Networks and Comedy Central, said the FCC should
impose conditions “to ensure a competitive marketplace,”
according to the filing.  The deal proposed last year also needs approval from the
Justice Department. The review is ongoing, said Alisa Finelli, a
spokeswoman for the department.  Comcast fell 2 cents to $22.18 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has risen 32 percent this
year. GE dropped 2 cents to $18.04 in New York Stock Exchange
trading.  Comcast is acquiring a 51 percent stake in NBC Universal
from GE by paying $6.5 billion in cash and contributing cable
channels valued at $7.25 billion to a joint venture that will
own the entertainment company.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, has
filed documents opposing the Comcast-NBC Universal combination
as it was proposed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 