-- Consultant Karl Motey Agrees to Plead Guilty in Insider Case, U.S. Says
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-24T02:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/consultant-motey-to-plead-guilty-detail-marvell-tips-in-u-s-insider-case.html
Karl Motey, an independent
consultant in California, pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate
with federal prosecutors in a widening U.S. investigation of
insider trading on Wall Street.  Motey pleaded guilty in federal court in Manhattan on
Dec. 14 to conspiracy and securities fraud, according to court
papers made public today. He got secret tips from multiple
sources at  Marvell Technology Group Ltd.  and provided the
information to hedge fund clients, according to the charging
document.  Motey agreed to tell prosecutors about an insider trading
scheme that ran from 2007 to March 2009, court papers show. He
will also disclose details of tips that he got from a source at
Taiwan-based  United Microelectronics Corp.  and from “employees
of a hedge fund located in California,” according to court
records.  An accomplice who isn’t identified “provided inside
information to Karl Motey” about “Marvell and Marvell’s
customers,” according to the criminal information.  Liu Chitung , Hsinchu, Taiwan-based UMC’s chief financial
officer, said he hadn’t heard of the case and hadn’t been
contacted by U.S. authorities. The  company  has tight controls
over its internal information, he said.  Tate Tran, a spokeswoman for Marvell, didn’t immediately
return voice-mail messages left on her work and mobile phones
today. Lee Altshuler and  Alexandra Shapiro , lawyers for Motey,
didn’t return phone calls seeking comment.  Smartphone Processors  Motey is listed in California state records as agent for
Los Altos-California-based Coda Group Inc., which was formed in
2000. A message left at his home wasn’t returned.  Marvell , based in Hamilton, Bermuda, makes processors that
run smartphones. United Microelectronics is the world’s second-
largest contract chip manufacturer.  Prosecutors last week announced insider trading charges
against four people who worked at technology firms and a fifth
man,  James Fleishman , who worked at an expert networking firm,
Primary Global Research LLC. Of those five, Daniel DeVore,
former a global supply manager at Dell Inc., pleaded guilty and
is cooperating with prosecutors.  According to last week’s complaint, prosecutors had the
assistance of four others besides DeVore. The Wall Street
Journal reported on Dec. 20 that Motey was one of them. He is
identified in those court papers as “CW-2.”  In last week’s complaint, prosecutors said they taped a
phone call between “CW-2,” who was then cooperating with the
government, and Fleishman, whose job at Primary Global was to
put traders in contact with so-called experts working at public
companies.  ‘Design Win’  “During the call, CW-2 provided Fleishman with a list of
things that CW-2 wanted to learn from a consultation call about
Marvell, including whether Marvell had obtained a ‘design win’
at Western Digital and Seagate,” the complaint said, referring
to Western Digital Corp. and Seagate Technology Plc.  A design win is when a technology company has decided to
use the product of another company in its products.  Since October 2009, federal prosecutors in New York have
brought charges against about two dozen hedge fund traders,
corporate insiders, expert networking executives, and lawyers as
part of a broadening crackdown on insider trading. At least 16
have pleaded guilty. Like Motey, many have agreed to help the
government in exchange for leniency. When he is sentenced, Motey
faces as many as 25 years in prison, prosecutors said.  Among those charged in the insider trading probe is  Raj Rajaratnam , co-founder of Galleon Group LLC. He faces a trial in
February and denies wrongdoing.  The case is U.S. v. Motey, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Glovin  in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 