-- Consumer, Business Spending Probably Increased as U.S. Economy Accelerates
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-12-23T05:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/consumer-business-spending-probably-rose-as-u-s-economy-grew.html
Spending by U.S. consumers and
businesses probably accelerated in November, a signal the
world’s largest economy is speeding up at the end of the year,
economists said before today’s reports.  Household purchases rose 0.5 percent after a 0.4 percent
increase in October, according to the median estimate of 75
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Demand  for durable goods
excluding cars and aircraft may have climbed 1.8 percent.  Fewer firings and rising incomes are boosting consumer
confidence, making it more likely spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy, will keep improving. At the
same time, factories are ramping up production as gains in
 exports  reinforce growing demand from U.S. companies, pointing
to a more balanced and durable recovery.  “The economy is still expanding,” said  Scott Brown , chief
economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in St. Petersburg,
Florida. “We’ve seen pretty good trends in consumer spending
and business fixed investment for the last couple of quarters.”  The Commerce Department is scheduled to release the
consumer spending and durable goods reports at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Estimates for consumer outlays ranged from increases
of 0.1 percent to 0.8 percent in the Bloomberg survey.  The report may also show  personal income  rose 0.2 percent,
according to survey median.  Demand for  total  durable goods fell 0.5 percent, while
bookings for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft and
parts, a signal of business investment, increased 3.1 percent,
according to the poll.  Christmas Shopping  Improving household balance sheets may be helping boost
demand during the Christmas holiday period. The International
Council of Shopping Centers on Dec. 14 revised its November-
December holiday-season sales forecast up by 0.5 percentage
point to a range of 3.5 percent to 4 percent.  “We’re clearly seeing an improved environment, especially
as the markets have held strong,”  Stephen Sadove , chief
executive officer of Saks Inc., said in a Dec. 20 interview on
Bloomberg Television.  Auto dealers also are among retailers seeing improved
demand.  Car sales  in November rose to a 12.26 million unit pace,
the highest since the government’s cash-for-clunkers program in
August 2009, industry data showed this month. Demand over the
past three months is the strongest in two years.  Shares Rising  The improving economy has boosted stock prices. The
Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  has risen 23 percent since reaching
a 10-month low on July 2. It is up 6.6 percent so far this
month.  Even so, growth has not been fast enough to bring down the
 unemployment rate , which rose to 9.8 percent in November.
Federal Reserve policy makers last week maintained the central
bank’s program to buy up to an additional $600 billion in
Treasury securities through June to try to bolster the economy
and support prices.  The economy grew at a 2.6 percent annual pace in the third
quarter, less than forecast, the government reported yesterday.
 Consumer spending  rose at a 2.4 percent pace, the fastest since
the first three months of 2007, while less than the 2.8 percent
estimated last month. The revision in purchases reflected less
spending on health-care and financial services.  Some measures of the labor market have been improving.
Weekly claims for jobless benefits  averaged  423,000 in the month
ended Dec. 11, the lowest level in two years. The Labor
Department is scheduled to report today that applications in the
period ended Dec. 18 held at 420,000 last week, according to the
survey median.  Other reports will show sales of  new houses  last month rose
6 percent from October to a 300,000 annual pace, and the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan index of  consumer sentiment 
climbed in December to a six-month high of 74.5.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  