-- U.S. Consumer Spending, Capital Investment Increase in Sign of Momentum
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-12-23T16:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/consumer-spending-climbed-in-november-for-a-fifth-month-as-incomes-grew.html
Americans increased spending in
November for a fifth straight month and companies stepped up
orders for equipment, more evidence the U.S. economy is gaining
momentum heading into 2011.  Household purchases rose 0.4 percent after a 0.7 percent
increase in October that was almost twice as large as previously
estimated, figures from the Commerce Department showed today in
Washington. The agency also reported a 2.6 percent gain in
bookings for capital goods like computers and electronics.  Rising incomes and  stock prices  are giving consumers the
wherewithal to boost the purchases that account for 70 percent
of the world’s largest economy, improving earnings prospects for
companies including Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. A drop in claims for
jobless benefits reported today indicates employers are slowing
the pace of firings, a step toward cutting  unemployment  from
close to a 26-year high.  “The recovery is moving into higher gear,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , global chief economist at MF Global Ltd. in New
York. “The unemployment rate will gradually come down, which in
turn should reduce the downward pressure on inflation.”  First-time filings for jobless insurance declined by 3,000
to 420,000 in the week ended Dec. 18, matching the median
forecast in a  Bloomberg News survey , according to Labor
Department figures released today.  Another report today showed a measure of consumer
confidence climbed to a six-month high in December. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer sentiment
rose to 74.5, matching the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey, from 71.6 in November. The preliminary December reading
was 74.2.  Stocks, Treasuries  Stocks were little changed after the reports. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 to 1,257.03 at 11:40 a.m. in New
York. The index has climbed more than 12 percent this year on
prospects for economic growth. Treasury securities fell, sending
the  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note up to 3.38 percent from
3.35 percent late yesterday.  Today’s reports add to a run of better-than-forecast data
that have prompted economists to raise their estimates for
economic growth. Retail sales increased more than forecast in
November, the  trade deficit  shrank as exports jumped to a two-
year high in October, and regional as well as nationwide figures
showed factories are ramping up production.  Economists at Morgan Stanley in New York today raised their
tracking estimate for consumer spending this quarter to 4.1
percent from 3.5 percent. They project the economy will expand
at a 4.5 percent pace in the October-December period, up from a
prior estimate of 4.3 percent.  Tax Cuts Extended  The extension of Bush-era income-tax cuts for two years, a
reduction in the payroll tax next year and the Federal Reserve’s
plan to buy $600 billion of Treasury securities are adding to
the optimism.  Housing remains a weak spot for the economy as an overhang
of unsold properties weighs on the market.  Purchases  of existing
homes increased 5.5 percent to a 290,000 annual rate from a
275,000 pace in October that was slower than previously
estimated, the Commerce Department said today. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected a 300,000
pace.  “While the economic environment appears to have stabilized
and is perhaps improving, it looks as if the consumer continues
to face challenges resulting from the macroeconomic environment
such as historically high unemployment rates,”  Leonard Feinstein , co-chairman of Bed Bath & Beyond, said on a
conference call yesterday.  Earnings Forecast  Union, New Jersey-based Bed Bath & Beyond yesterday
increased its fiscal year earnings forecast to as much as $2.90
a share from a previous forecast of as much as $2.76.  Economists forecast consumer spending would rise 0.5
percent, according to the median of 75 projections in a
Bloomberg survey. Estimates ranged from increases of 0.1 percent
to 0.8 percent. The revisions made October’s gain in spending
the biggest since August 2009.  Inflation remained below the Fed’s comfort zone. The
central bank’s preferred price measure, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 0.1 percent from the prior month and was up 0.8
percent from a year earlier, matching October’s 12-month gain as
the smallest on record.  The economy grew at a 2.6 percent annual pace in the third
quarter, the government reported yesterday. Consumer spending
rose at a 2.4 percent pace, the fastest since the first three
months of 2007.  Unemployment Rate  Growth hasn’t been fast enough to bring down the
unemployment rate, which rose last month to 9.8 percent. Fed
policy makers last week maintained their program to buy up to an
additional $600 billion in Treasury securities through June to
try to bolster the economy and support prices.  “Consumer spending has moved into a period of healthy
growth and we do think even if we don’t maintain the extremely
strong fourth quarter pace consumer spending will grow solidly
into 2011,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays
Capital Inc. in New York.  Today’s durable goods report from the Commerce Department
showed that total orders dropped 1.3 percent, depressed by
volatile demand for aircraft, and bookings excluding
transportation equipment rose more than forecast.  Capital spending has been a source of strength for the
world’s largest economy at the same time that household
purchases are starting to accelerate. Manufacturing, the
industry that helped pull the U.S. out of the worst recession
since the 1930s, has been resilient throughout the recovery,
bolstered in part by overseas demand for American-made goods.  Higher Profits  Some manufacturers are projecting higher profits as orders
increase. Joy Global Inc., the maker of P&H and Joy mining
equipment, last week announced a fiscal 2011 profit forecast
that topped analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “The improving bookings rate supports our view that our
mining customers will continue to increase their capital
expenditure plans,”  Mike Sutherlin , chief executive officer of
the Milwaukee-based company, said in a Dec. 15 statement. “We
continue to ramp up our production to meet this expected growth
in demand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net 
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  