-- Cotton Tumbles for Second Day on Signs India to Resume Exports
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-12-23T20:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/cotton-falls-by-limit-for-a-second-day-as-record-holidays-curb-interest.html
Cotton tumbled the most allowed by
ICE Futures U.S. for the second straight day on signs that
India, the world’s second-largest grower, is resuming exports
that were limited by the government to ensure domestic supplies.  India said Dec. 21 it would allow exports of 2.5 million
bales after sellers and merchants failed to secure supplies
during an earlier shipment authorization of 5.5. million bales.
An Indian bale weighs 375 pounds, or 170 kilograms. Prices have
almost doubled this year, heading for the biggest annual advance
since 1973.  “India saying that it will allow export of the remaining
amount of the quota ensures an increase in supply,” said  Keith Brown , the president of Keith Brown & Co., a brokerage in
Moultrie, Georgia. Prices also are under pressure “after rising
too quick, too soon,” he said.  Cotton for March delivery slumped the exchange limit of 6
cents, or 3.9 percent, to settle at $1.4812 a pound at 2:30 p.m.
on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. Yesterday, the price declined
by the maximum of 5 cents. The most-active contract reached a
record $1.5912 on Dec. 21.  “At this high level, we expect demand to start to be
rationed somewhat,” said Wayne Gordon, a senior analyst at
Rabobank Groep NV in Sydney.  Sales before the Christmas and New Year’s holidays pushed
prices lower, said Jongyoun Chung, a broker at Samsung Futures
Inc. in Seoul.  ‘Absolutely Fantastic’  Export sales of upland cotton by the U.S., the world’s
biggest shipper, jumped 51 percent in the week ended Dec. 16
from a week earlier, government data showed.  “These numbers are absolutely fantastic,”  Mike Stevens ,
an independent trader in Mandeville, Louisiana.  Pakistan may import 4 million bales to ease shortages and
cool prices after the worst-ever floods damaged crops, said
Nazar Muhammad Gondal, the farm minister. Output may total 11
million bales, less than the 15 million bales required, he said.  Cotton imports by China were 126,125 metric tons last
month, government data showed. That compared with 154,547 tons a
year earlier and 96,096 tons in October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 