-- Czech Shoppers End Year in Style With Champagne, Wide-Screen TVs
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2010-12-23T09:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/czech-shoppers-end-year-in-style-with-champagne-wide-screen-tvs.html
Czech holiday shoppers are snapping
up Moet champagne, designer chocolates and Lego play sets as
renewed economic optimism boosts demand for branded goods this
year.  The country’s largest retailers say year-end sales are on
the rise, with  Tesco Stores Plc  reporting a 6 percent increase
in revenue in the past month, compared with the same period a
year earlier. Sales at  Koninklijke Ahold NV’s  Czech outlets
jumped more than 10 percent during the period, the Dutch company
said.  Gift buyers are opting for branded goods including premium
alcohol, sports equipment, electronics and toys, the retailers
said. Czechs are spending more than last year, even though real
 salaries  have remained almost unchanged in the third quarter,
according to Bloomberg data.  “Czechs are clearly planning to enjoy this year’s
Christmas in style,” Tesco CR spokeswoman  Eva Karasova  said.
“We have therefore adjusted our offers to include more branded
goods.”  Sales at Ahold’s 280 outlets that include superstores and
supermarkets jumped 40 percent in the last pre-holiday weekend,
compared with a regular weekend, spokesman Lukas Hora said.
Ahold and Tesco are tied as the Czech Republic’s third-largest
grocer by revenue behind Lidl discount store owner Schwarz Group
and  Rewe AV , which owns the Billa supermarkets, according to
Krakow, Poland-based market researcher  PMR . Tesco operates 154
outlets in the country.  Consumer Confidence  This year’s uptick in demand may not signal a deeper
improvement in consumer confidence as last year’s sales were at
rock bottom due to the financial crisis, said  Pavel Sobisek , a
Prague-based economist at  UniCredit SpA .  Planned  budget  cuts including a 10 percent reduction in
public sector wages next year will probably slow the growth of
domestic product from this year’s 2.8 percent, he said.  “I’m not sure higher sales are a long-term sustainable
trend,” Sobisek said in a telephone interview. “There was a
dip in retail spending in October and only a slight increase in
November, so I think what we have is simply a delayed
consumption.”  Consumers don’t expect the shopping euphoria to stop at the
end of the year, according to a GE Money Bank survey. Czechs
plan to spend at least 17 percent more money on clothes, shoes
and consumer electronics during the post-holiday sales, the
study, conducted in October, shows.  ‘Better Mood’  Surrounded by bags and boxes, Irena Fenclova, a 43 year-old
Prague accountant, was taking a coffee break on the bottom floor
of  Palladium  shopping mall in the center of Prague.  She said she will spend more on presents this year because
“business has picked up.” Palladium has attracted 11 percent
more visitors in November and the first half of December this
year compared with the same period last year, according to
spokeswoman Veronika Smejkalova.  “I have been pretty good this year in terms of spending,
but Christmas is Christmas,” Fenclova said. “People are
definitely in a better mood than last year, and it’s a bit
contagious. We want to have fun.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Paris at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  