-- Debt Struggles Set to Deepen for Peripheral European Nations: Euro Credit
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-12-23T13:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/debt-struggles-set-to-deepen-for-peripheral-european-nations-euro-credit.html
Europe’s most indebted nations,
already struggling to find buyers for their bonds, will face
more competition as the region begins issuing new securities to
fund Ireland’s rescue package.  The European Financial Stabilization Mechanism and  European
Financial Stability Facility  will raise as much as 34.1 billion
euros ($44.6 billion) for Ireland in 2011, the European
Commission said Dec. 21. So-called peripheral nations also will
vie for funds against AAA-rated Germany and France, which plan
to sell a combined 486 billion euros of debt next year. Spain’s
funding needs are 90 billion euros and Portugal may require 19
billion euros, analysts at Credit Agricole SA estimate.  Portuguese 10-year bond yields rose by almost half a
percentage point in the past two weeks as investors bet the
country may follow Ireland in seeking aid after European Union
officials deferred a decision on whether to let the EFSF buy
bonds of the most indebted countries. EU leaders also failed to
agree on topping up the temporary 750 billion-euro emergency
fund of which the EFSM and the EFSF form the main pillar.  “The crowding out effect is a big problem for Spain as
they have to come to the market pretty quickly and they have
lots to do,” said  Orlando Green , assistant director of capital-
markets strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank
in London. “The funding conditions are going to be tough until
there’s more certainty in terms of support for troubled
sovereigns.”  Ignis Asset Management, UBI Pramerica SGR SpA and Robeco
Greop NV, which together manage about $340 billion, say they
will shun bonds from peripheral nations until policy makers come
up with a more credible solution to the debt crisis.  Spanish Slump  Spanish government securities dropped 4.8 percent in 2010,
headed for their worst year since at least 1993, according to
indexes from Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.
Portuguese notes declined 8.2 percent in the same period.  The EFSM and EFSF together are providing 40.2 billion euros
of Ireland’s 85 billion-euro rescue. The EFSM’s share is 22.5
billion euros and the EFSF’s portion is 17.7 billion euros.  In addition to the 2011 financing, the two funds will sell
bonds to raise as much as 14.9 billion euros in 2012, the
European Commission said on Dec. 21. Most of the bonds will have
maturities of five, seven and 10 years, according to the
commission. Next year, the EFSM and EFSF will issue a total of
seven to eight benchmark bonds each worth 3 billion euros to 5
billion euros.  The AAA credit ratings of the EFSF and EFSM mean bonds sold
by them probably will be more attractive to investors than those
from lower-ranked countries. The Luxembourg-based EFSF is
overseen by euro-area governments and the EFSM is run by the
Brussels-based European Commission.  Bond Payments  Portugal, which is rated A- by Standard & Poor’s, has to
refinance 11.5 billion euros of Treasury bills that come due in
March and repay about 10 billion euros of bonds by June,
according to  Chiara Cremonesi , a London-based fixed-income
strategist at UniCredit SpA.  Portuguese bonds fell on Dec. 21 after Moody’s Investors
Service said it may cut the country’s credit rating “by a notch
or two,” partly citing the “likely deterioration in debt
affordability over the medium term.” Portugal posted the
biggest shortfall in the 16-nation euro region last year after
Ireland, Greece and Spain. The ratings company on Dec. 15 put
Spain’s Aa1 on review for a possible downgrade.  The yield premiums investors demand to hold Portuguese 10-
year bonds instead of similar maturity German bunds was at 365
basis points as of 12:36 p.m. in London, down from last month’s
euro-era record of 460.  Future Packages  “It’s likely that we haven’t seen the worst of the
crisis,” said  Emilio Franco , chief investment officer in Milan
at UBI Pramerica, which manages about $48 billion. “We don’t
exclude future debt restructurings in some of the weakest
countries.”  While EU leaders agreed to amend the bloc’s treaties to
create a permanent debt-crisis mechanism in 2013, they still
need to iron out details of the plan and bridge divisions over
immediate steps to stabilize bond markets.  Debt is sold under the euro-area’s financial backstop only
after an aid request is made by a country. So far the only
nation to tap the fund is Ireland, whose package also includes
loans from the U.K., Sweden, Denmark and the International
Monetary Fund. Greece’s earlier 110 billion-euro rescue involved
loans from euro-area governments and the IMF.  Euro-area governments are debating whether to expand the
role of the EFSF to allow it to buy the bonds of countries in
need. The current mandate is to sell debt backed by 440 billion
euros of national guarantees and use the money to offer aid.  “We would like to see that policy makers are ahead of the
game instead of only reacting when problems arise before we
start being constructive in this market again,” said  Kommer van Trigt , a money manager at Robeco in Rotterdam, which has about
$182 billion in assets. “The sovereign credit problem isn’t
going away any time soon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  