-- Demand for U.S. Capital Goods Rebounds on Rise in Computer, Telecom Orders
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-12-23T13:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/demand-for-u-s-capital-goods-rebounds-on-rise-in-computer-telecom-orders.html
Orders  for U.S. capital equipment
rebounded in November, signaling a slowdown in business
investment may be less pronounced than some economists
projected.  Bookings for goods like computers and communications gear
climbed 2.6 percent after a 3.6 percent decline in October that
was smaller than previously estimated, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in Washington.  Total orders  dropped 1.3
percent, depressed by volatile demand for aircraft, and bookings
excluding transportation equipment rose more than forecast.  Capital spending has been a source of strength for the
world’s largest economy at the same time that household
purchases are starting to accelerate. Manufacturing, the
industry that helped pull the U.S. out of the worst recession
since the 1930s, has been resilient throughout the recovery,
bolstered in part by overseas demand for American-made goods.  “There is still some equipment spending going on,” said
 Brian Bethune , chief U.S. financial economist at IHS Global
Insight in Lexington, Massachusetts. “It’s going to be a
positive contributor to growth.”  Another Commerce Department report today showed consumer
spending rose in November as incomes climbed. Household
purchases advanced 0.4 percent after a 0.7 percent gain in
October that was larger than previously estimated. Incomes rose
0.3 percent and the Federal Reserve’s preferred price measure
showed inflation remained below policy makers’ comfort zone.  Jobless Claims  Initial filings for unemployment insurance declined by
3,000 to 420,000 in the week ended Dec. 18, matching the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. Those already collecting benefits
fell in the previous week to 4.06 million.  Stock-index futures fluctuated after the reports.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in
March fell 0.2 percent to 1,252.50 at 8:57 a.m. in New York.
Treasury securities were lower, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note up to 3.36 percent from 3.35 percent late
yesterday.  The median forecast calling for a decline in total durable
goods orders reflected 74 projections in a Bloomberg News
survey. Estimates ranged from a drop of 3.6 percent to an
increase of 3 percent.  Bookings for commercial aircraft plunged 53 percent last
month after a 7.1 percent October decline.  Excluding transportation,  bookings  increased 2.4 percent,
the biggest gain since March. They were forecast to rise 1.8
percent, according to the Bloomberg survey.  Business Investment  Orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft are
considered a proxy for future business investment. The revised
drop in October compared with a previously estimated 4.5 percent
decrease. Over the past three months, bookings climbed at a 7.1
percent annual pace, down from an 11 percent advance in October.  Demand for computers and electronic equipment climbed 5.8
percent last month, the biggest gain since February 2009.  Shipments of non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
used in calculating gross domestic product, increased 1 percent
after a 1.2 percent drop in October.  The U.S. economy grew at a 2.6 percent annual pace from
July through September, the Commerce Department said yesterday.
Corporate profits increased 1.6 percent during the third quarter
and were up 26 percent from the same three months last year.  Industrial Production  Today’s report supports others suggesting factories are
contributing to growth in the fourth quarter. The Fed last week
said U.S. industrial production increased in November by the
most in four months.  Some manufacturers are projecting higher profits as orders
increase.  Joy Global Inc. , the maker of P&H and Joy mining
equipment, last week announced a fiscal 2011 profit forecast
that topped analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “The improving bookings rate supports our view that our
mining customers will continue to increase their capital
expenditure plans,”  Mike Sutherlin , chief executive officer of
the Milwaukee-based company, said in a Dec. 15 statement. “We
continue to ramp up our production to meet this expected growth
in demand.”  Foreign sales are a bright spot for factories, and exports
in October rose to the highest level in more than two years,
according to Commerce Department data released Dec. 10. Some
businesses are responding to greater demand from the U.S. and
abroad by replacing aging equipment and bringing more parts of
their plants online.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  