-- Deposit `War' Fails to Ease Record Cash Crunch at SBI, HDFC: India Credit
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2010-12-24T04:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/deposit-war-fails-to-ease-record-cash-crunch-at-sbi-hdfc-india-credit.html
India’s biggest banks are battling
for deposits as they fall behind demand for loans amid the
nation’s worst cash crunch on record.  State Bank of India  raised one-year  rates  by 175 basis
points, or 1.75 percentage point, since July 30 to a 20-month
high of 7.75 percent, while  Housing Development Finance Corp. 
added 75 to 7.95 percent. The average deposit growth of 15.3
percent during the period lagged behind a 21.1 percent increase
in lending, according to data from the monetary authority.  One-month  interbank lending rates in Asia’s third-biggest
economy increased 142 basis points to 8.37 percent this quarter
and 223 basis points in China to 5.74 percent. The rates banks
offer are still too low, robbing the economy of a source of
funds to fuel growth, Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao, who has overseen six increases in benchmark borrowing
costs this year, told a bankers’ conference on Dec. 3.  “The process of raising deposit rates has begun, but it
hasn’t progressed far enough to ease the cash shortage,” said
 Krishnamurthy Harihar , the Mumbai-based treasurer at FirstRand
Ltd., a unit of South Africa’s second-largest bank. “Deposit
rates will have to rise much more to help banks garner
sufficient liquidity.”  Fund Shortage  The shortage has forced lenders to turn to the Reserve Bank
for funds every day since Sept. 9. Banks  borrowed  a record 1.7
trillion rupees ($38 billion) on Dec. 22, central bank data
show.  Subbarao said on Dec. 9 he is “deeply conscious” of the
cash shortfall, which was aggravated as companies raised a
record 1.16 trillion rupees this year by selling shares. The
Reserve Bank pumped almost 300 billion rupees into the financial
system this month by purchasing sovereign bonds.  Bank  savings  in India have risen 14.9 percent since the end
of 2009, poised for the smallest annual increase since 2003,
according to official data. The equivalent measure rose  18.6
percent  in China in the first 11 months of 2010.  India’s lenders will have to offer higher deposit rates
after the average inflation rate jumped almost sixfold this year
to 9.5 percent,  Tejendra Mohan Bhasin , chairman of Indian Bank,
a state-owned lender based in the southern Indian city of
Chennai, said in an interview on Dec. 22.  “Deposit rates are a function of inflation and
liquidity,” said  V. Srinivasa Rangan , Mumbai-based executive
director at HDFC, India’s largest home-lender, said in an
interview on Dec. 22.  C. Ramnath, the Mumbai-based chief general manager at State
Bank, India’s biggest lender, declined to comment on the
increase in deposit rates.  ‘Rate War’  “Banks are stretching their balance sheets to fund credit
growth,”  Suresh Ganapathy  and Mudit Painuly, Mumbai-based
analysts at Macquarie Group Ltd., wrote in a research report
earlier this month. Deposit rates need to move up by another 50
basis points to 100 basis points as banks are likely to enter a
“rate war,” they wrote.  The cost of fixing rates on money for three months surged
285 basis points this year to 6.8 percent in the interest-rate
swaps market, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Overnight  loan
rates between banks averaged 6.5 percent this quarter, up from
5.4 percent in the previous three months.  India’s three-month  Treasury bill  yields have risen 358
basis points this year as the Reserve Bank lifted its repo rate
by 150 points, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The comparable
measure climbed 244 points to 11.11 percent in Brazil and 8
basis points to 0.13 percent in the U.S. Rates on similar notes
from the People’s Bank of China rose 199 basis points to 3.31
percent.  Bonds Decline  Money-market rates may ease as the government steps up
spending to meet targets before the fiscal year ending March,
said  Debendra Kumar Dash , a fixed-income trader at Mumbai-based
Development Credit Bank Ltd.  “Overnight rates will come down by about 25 basis points if
cash conditions improve in January,” Dash said in an interview
yesterday.  India’s 10-year bond yields fell for a second day. The
yield on the 7.8 percent notes maturing in May 2020 declined
four basis points to 7.89 percent. The rate has climbed 30 basis
points this year.  Government bonds in India returned 5.1 percent this year,
compared with 19.7 percent in Indonesia and 12.2 percent in the
Philippines, according to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  ‘No Choice’  The rupee declined 0.1 percent to 45.1850 per dollar today.
The currency has appreciated 3 percent this year, the fourth-
worst performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies.  Credit-default swaps on State Bank of India rose four basis
points this week to 160 points, according to data provider CMA.
Such swaps usually pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt,
and they rise as perceptions of credit quality deteriorate.  There is “no choice but to increase deposit rates when
banks are facing tight liquidity conditions,”  Yeshwant M. Deosthalee , chairman and managing director of L&T Finance
Holdings Ltd., a unit of India’s largest engineering company,
said in an interview on Dec. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anurag Joshi  in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  