-- Deutsche Bank, LGT Agree on `Key Points' of BHF Sale, in Exclusive Talks
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   J a n n   B e t t i n g a
-- 2010-12-23T15:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/deutsche-bank-lgt-agree-on-key-points-of-bhf-sale-in-exclusive-talks.html
Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest
bank, has entered exclusive talks and agreed on “key points”
with Liechtenstein’s LGT Group on the sale of  BHF-Bank AG .  The two companies aim to complete contractual details in
the first quarter of 2011, Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank said in
a  statement  today, adding that the parties agreed to maintain
confidentiality until then.  Deutsche Bank started the sale of BHF-Bank in July after
acquiring it through the purchase of Sal. Oppenheim Group. LGT,
a wealth and asset management firm owned for 80 years by
Liechtenstein’s princely family, seeks to lower dependence on
its domestic business and sees “significant market potential”
in Germany, according to a separate statement.  “Deutsche Bank almost achieved its goal of selling BHF by
the end of this year,” said  Konrad Becker , a Munich-based
analyst at Merck Finck & Co. who recommends buying the stock.
“They wanted to avoid seeing the process drag on even longer.”  LGT was competing with bidders including U.S. private-
equity firm  KKR & Co.  for BHF-Bank, two people with knowledge of
the process said last month.  Bankhaus Lampe , the German lender
controlled by the billionaire Oetker family, had also examined a
joint bid with KKR before dropping out, the people said.  Deutsche Bank shares advanced 24 cents, or 0.6 percent, to
39.66 euros as of 3:46 p.m. in Frankfurt trading, giving the
company a market value of 36.9 billion euros ($48.2 billion).  Net Loss  Frankfurt-based BHF-Bank, which offers private banking,
asset management and investment banking, has about 1,500
employees and 18.7 billion euros in assets, according to company
 reports . The bank posted a net loss of 5 million euros last year
on a trading deficit and a pretax profit of 2 million euros.
That compared with a 1.19 billion-euro loss at former parent
company Sal. Oppenheim.  Sal. Oppenheim, Germany’s largest private bank and family-
run for seven generations, put itself up for sale after
reporting the first loss since World War II in 2008 from soured
investments. The company bought BHF-Bank from ING Groep NV for
600 million euros in 2004.  Deutsche Bank was seeking at least that amount for the
unit, a person familiar with the matter said earlier this year.
No price was disclosed today.  LGT aims to build its banking presence in German-speaking
countries and expand in Asia, international growth markets and
asset management, it said. The Vaduz-based firm has about 1,900
employees in 29 locations in Europe, Asia and the Middle East,
and manages 87 billion Swiss francs ($90 billion).  The company and about 45 of its staff last week settled
criminal proceedings by German prosecutors over charges of
abetting tax evasion. LGT and a former unit, as well as
employees, paid about 50 million euros to resolve the case and
the legal action will be dropped,  Bernd Bieniossek , a prosecutor
in Bochum, Germany, said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Jann Bettinga in Frankfurt at 
 jbetting@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  