-- Dim Sum Bond Top Underwriters See Sales Doubling: China Credit
-- B y   S h e l l e y   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-24T02:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/dim-sum-bond-leading-underwriters-see-sales-doubling-on-yuan-china-credit.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) , the biggest foreign underwriters of  yuan  bonds
sold in Hong Kong, say sales will double in 2011 as demand
outstrips supply and the yuan appreciates.  New issues may increase to a record 80 billion yuan ($12
billion) next year, with as much as 30 billion yuan of sales in
the first quarter, according to HSBC, the No. 2 underwriter of
so-called dim sum bonds. Standard Chartered, the fourth largest
this year, says sales could top as much as 100 billion yuan as
Moscow-based United Co. Rusal and  BP Plc (BP/)  plan issues. Offerings
in 2010 total 40.7 billion yuan, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We’re likely to see strong growth to around 80 billion
yuan in 2011,” Sean Henderson, HSBC’s head of Asia debt
syndicate, said in a telephone interview. The dim sum market has
grown 10-fold since 2008 as  China  seeks to use the city as an
international center to promote the use of the yuan beyond its
borders for trade and finance.  Forecasts of currency gains spurred a 29 percent month-on-
month jump in yuan deposits in Hong Kong to a high of 279.6
billion yuan in November, according to a  statement  from the Hong
Kong Monetary Authority yesterday, creating an investor base
seeking yuan-denominated securities. Bond issuers can save about
220 basis points, or 2.2 percentage points, in interest payments
selling yuan bonds in Hong Kong rather than in  Shanghai .  Cantonese Food  Dim sum bonds, named after the Cantonese brunch food, pay
an average yield of about 1.6 percent, according to Treasury
Markets Association data, which tracks 30 outstanding issues
including notes sold by China Development Bank Corp. and  Bank of
China Ltd. (3988)  The average yield paid on three- to five-year bonds
sold by government-linked companies in China is 3.8 percent,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s China Quasi-
Government Index.  Investment-grade companies in Asia pay an average 4.76
percent to sell dollar-denominated bonds, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s Asia Credit Index.  China Development Bank’s dim sum bonds due November 2013
yield 1.9 percent, according to TMA prices. The lender’s dollar-
denominated bonds due in October 2014 yield 2.82 percent,
according to BNP Paribas prices, while its yuan bonds due
October 2013 pay 3.7 percent, according to Chinabond prices.  Bank of China, the No. 1 underwriter of dim sum bonds this
year, said this week it plans to set up an index tracking the
performance of the most actively traded dim sum notes, according
to an e-mailed statement from the bank on Dec. 20. Nobody at
Bank of China was able provide a dim sum bond forecast yesterday,
said Clarina Man, a spokeswoman.  Issuer Pipeline  Haitong Securities Co.’s  Hong Kong unit  set up a 5 billion
yuan fixed-income fund in September that invests in offshore
 renminbi  bonds.  “The pipeline for issuers is still pretty strong,” Kong
Weipeng, head of fixed-income investment at Haitong
International Asset Management, said in an interview in Hong
Kong on Dec. 22. “A stable appreciation would be helpful for
the development for the offshore yuan bond market. In the long
run people expect the yuan to appreciate.”  The yuan may rise as much as 6 percent next year against
the dollar, Zhang Ming, the Beijing-based deputy chief of the
International Finance Research Office of the state-backed
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, said in an interview this
week. The median forecast of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
is for a 5.9 percent advance to 6.28 yuan against the dollar by
the end of next year.  China’s currency is the best-performing among those of the
so-called BRIC economies over the past decade. The yuan has
strengthened 25 percent against the dollar in the past 10 years,
outperforming gains of 15 percent by the Brazilian real, 3.4
percent in  India ’s rupee and an 8.7 percent slide in the Russian
ruble, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BP, Rusal  The  yuan  gained 0.11 percent to 6.6358 per dollar today in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
Non-deliverable forwards show traders are betting on a 2.1
percent advance in the coming 12 months.  Rusal planned to hire banks to sell yuan-denominated bonds
and conduct a sale as early as the first quarter of 2011, the
company’s head of capital markets Oleg Mukhamedshin said on Dec.
17 in Moscow. A sale of 1 billion yuan would be a “reasonable”
amount, he said.  BP, based in  London , was considering selling bonds
denominated in yuan, Gary Admans, the company’s manager of debt
capital markets, said at a conference in London on Dec. 7.
International Finance Corp., the World Bank’s private investment
arm, aims to offer about 100 million yuan of five-year notes,
Nina Shapiro, IFC’s Treasurer said Oct. 20.  Galaxy, VTB  China’s government and China Development Bank led issuance
in the dim sum bond market this year, with 14.6 billion yuan of
sales between them, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Casino operator  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)  sold the
first speculative-grade dim sum bond this month. The 1.38
billion yuan of three-year bonds were priced to yield 4.625
percent.  VTB Group (VTBR) ,  Russia ’s second-largest bank, became the first
company from an emerging market outside Asia to sell bonds
denominated in yuan on Dec. 10. The three-year bonds were priced
to yield 2.95 percent, compared with a yield of 5.9 percent for
VTB’s five-year bonds in dollars, according to Bloomberg data.  Elsewhere in China’s credit markets, five-year credit-
default swap contracts on the nation’s bonds fell 0.5 basis
point to 67.5 basis points yesterday, CMA prices show. The
contracts rose 17 basis points in November after falling in
October and September. Credit-default swaps typically decline as
investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  ‘Demand Imbalance’  The yield on the 3.67 percent government bond due October
2020 rose 3.5 basis points yesterday to 3.83 percent, Interbank
Funding Center data show.  One-year interest-rate swaps , the
fixed cost needed to receive the floating seven-day  repurchase
rate , climbed eight basis points to 3.15 percent yesterday.  “The current imbalance between demand from investors and
supply of bonds out there is such that we could lead to 100
billion yuan to 150 billion yuan of issuance,” Daniel Mamadou,
co-head of Asian capital markets and treasury solutions at
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , said in a telephone interview. “But all the
market players have by now understood that this is going to be a
process that is carefully observed and managed by both the
People’s Bank of China and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.”  Deutsche Bank, which helped arrange the first high-yield
dim sum bond, is the seventh-largest underwriter.  HSBC’s forecast for new issuance is achievable should
regulators let borrowers repatriate proceeds and cross-currency
swap markets develop further, Henderson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shelley Smith in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  