-- Dollar Falls Against Yen for Fourth Day as U.S. Recovery Gains Strength
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-12-23T22:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/dollar-declines-as-improving-u-s-economic-outlook-buoys-demand-for-risk.html
The dollar fell against the yen for
a fourth straight day in the longest stretch of declines in more
than two months as reports showed the U.S. economic recovery is
gathering pace, fueling demand for the Japanese currency to fund
investments in growth.  The U.S.  currency  weakened against its Australian and New
Zealand counterparts as orders for capital equipment rose in
November and initial unemployment insurance claims fell in the
latest week, a signal the world’s largest economy is speeding
up. The Swiss franc fell against all its major counterparts
after reaching a record yesterday against the euro. The common
currency pared gains against the dollar as Fitch Ratings
downgraded Portugal.  “The data supports a pickup in consumption, which is good
because consumption is such a large portion of U.S. growth,”
said  Eric Viloria , senior currency strategist for Gain Capital
Group LLC in New York. “In the immediate term, the dollar is
weaker, but in the long term this kind of growth should be
dollar-positive.”  The dollar fell 0.8 percent to 82.92 yen at 5:01 p.m. in
New York, the weakest since Dec. 14, from 83.57 yen yesterday.
It fell 0.1 percent to $1.3114 per euro from $1.3100 euro.  The greenback weakened 1 percent against the New Zealand
dollar to 74.72 U.S. cents from 74.02 cents yesterday. The U.S.
currency slid 0.5 percent versus the Australian dollar to
$1.0042 from 99.90 cents.  Carry Trade  The dollar slid against the yen as demand increased for the
Japanese currency for use in carry trades, in which investors
borrow in nations with low interest rates to buy higher-yielding
assets. The Bank of Japan has pledged to keep interest rates at
“virtually zero” until deflation has ended.  Asian currencies rose against the dollar, led by the South
Korean won, on renewed risk appetite and as investors speculated
there will be a stronger U.S. market for the country’s exports.  The won climbed for a second day, rising 0.5 percent to
1,148.95 per dollar.  The New Zealand dollar was the best performer against the
dollar as Finance Minister  Bill English  said the South Pacific
nation’s economic expansion will accelerate next year.
Australia’s dollar rose above parity with the greenback as
 prices of commodities , which are a majority of both South
Pacific nations’ exports, rose and Asian stocks advanced.  ‘Move to Parity’  “The move to parity for the Aussie with gains in equities
and oil could definitely be sustainable next year,” said  Boris Schlossberg , director of research at online currency trader GFT
Forex in New York.  Both currencies were also bolstered after the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials climbed for a
fifth day to as much as 329.58, the highest since October 2008.  The euro pared gains against the dollar after Fitch Ratings
said it downgraded Portugal’s long-term foreign and local
currency issuer default ratings to A+ from AA- with negative
outlooks. The agency also lowered the short-term foreign
currency rating to F1 from F1+.  “The euro jumped up near $1.3150, but now Fitch has
downgraded Portugal, so we are now seeing the euro drifting
lower after a spike,” said  Mary Nicola , a New York-based
currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA.  The Swiss franc declined against the euro after
appreciating to record levels this week on demand for a refuge
from European debt turmoil. The currency reached its weakest
levels on speculation about central-bank intervention.  Central Bank Spokesman  Werner Abegg , a spokesman for the Swiss National Bank
speaking from home after regular business hours, declined to
comment on whether there was any intervention by the SNB. “We
do not comment on rumors,” he said.  BNP Paribas’s Nicola said “we are not hearing it is
intervention by the SNB. It is Swiss insurers closing positions
and rebalancing their books for the year end.”  The franc weakened against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts and fell 0.8 percent to 1.2575 per euro after
touching 1.2439 yesterday, the strongest since the single
currency’s 1999 debut.  The franc has strengthened 18 percent against the euro this
year and 8 percent against the greenback during the period.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services affirmed its AAA long-
term and A-1+ short-term sovereign credit ratings on the
Republic of France. The AAA transfer and convertibility
assessment is unchanged. The outlook is stable.  Economic Watch  U.S. bookings for goods like computers and communications
gear climbed 2.6 percent after a 3.6 percent decline in October
that was smaller than previously estimated, figures from the
Commerce Department showed today in Washington.  Fewer Americans filed applications for jobless claims last
week and the number of people on benefit rolls dropped to a two-
year low, reinforcing evidence the labor market is improving.  Purchases of new homes increased 5.5 percent to a 290,000
annual rate from a 275,000 pace in October that was lower than
previously estimated, figures from the Commerce Department
showed today in Washington.  South Africa’s rand strengthened to the highest level in
almost three years against the dollar. The currency appreciated
as much as 0.8 percent to 6.7394 per dollar, its best intraday
level since January 2008.  The rand has surged 39 percent since the start of last year
as developed nations cut rates to near zero to pull their
economies out of recession, while South Africa’s  main central
bank rate  is 5.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  