-- Dunkin’ Procurement Chief Urges Limits on Coffee: Chart of Day
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-12-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/dunkin-procurement-chief-urges-limits-on-coffee-chart-of-the-day.html
The chief of procurement for Dunkin’
Donuts Inc. outlets urged the top U.S. commodity regulator to limit
speculation in raw materials like sugar, wheat and coffee as
Arabica beans rose to a 13-year high.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows coffee prices and  net-long
positions  held by managed money including hedge funds, commodity
trading advisers and commodity pools, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments of Traders
report. Long positions are bets that prices will rise.  “Something as simple as a good cup of coffee at a fair
price is under threat today because of intense pressure by hedge
funds and other speculators,” said Ed O’Rourke, chief
procurement officer for Dunkin’ Donuts National DCP LLC, a
franchise-owned cooperative that handles purchasing and
distribution to more than 6,000 Dunkin’ Donuts and Baskin
Robbins outlets nationwide, in a Dec. 14 letter to the CFTC.  The commission last week postponed a vote to propose limits
on the number of commodity contracts one firm could own. Coffee
rose 69 percent this year as  stockpiles  monitored by ICE Futures
U.S. plunged 45 percent. Net-long positions held by managed
money increased 79 percent this year.  Arabica coffee for March delivery reached $2.4225 a pound
yesterday on ICE Futures in New York on speculation that
supplies may be reduced because of adverse weather in India and
Brazil. It was the highest price for a most-active contract
since June 1997. The contract declined 3.65 cents, or 1.6
percent to settle at $2.302 yesterday.  Starbucks Corp., the world’s largest coffee-shop operator,
will probably have to lock in higher-than-expected costs after
speculators pushed up prices,  Troy Alstead , the Seattle-based
company’s chief financial officer, said during a Nov. 4
conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 