-- Snow Hits Paris Flights, Eurostar as Heathrow Recovers
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-12-23T15:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/heathrow-airport-expects-most-flights-to-operate-today-as-weather-improves.html
Snowstorms returned to northern
France, forcing the cancellation of 20 percent of flights at
Paris’s main Charles De Gaulle airport and disrupting travel
through the Channel Tunnel on Eurostar Group Ltd. trains.  London’s Heathrow  airport, Europe’s busiest, is largely
ice-free, though around 100 flights have been canceled because
planes and crews are out of position after five days of turmoil,
owner  BAA Ltd.  said. The terminal in Dublin was closed by fresh
snow and Brussels suffered delays of as many as six hours.  France’s state meteorological agency has placed regions
including the Ile-de-France around Paris on ‘Orange Alert,’ the
second-highest level on a four-tier scale of weather severity.
 Thierry Mariani , the country’s transport minister, said measures
to deal with the disruption at Charles De Gaulle, Europe’s
second-busiest airport, weren’t adequate.  “The treatment of passengers has been totally
unsatisfactory,” Mariani said in comments on RMC Radio. “When
flights are canceled at the last minute, panic begins.” He added
that the airport “is a magnificent place when everything is
working, but when things aren’t working it gets bad quickly.”  The reduced service at Paris’s main airport will persist
all day, owner Aeroports de Paris said on its website, while a
fifth of flights will also be scrapped at the city’s secondary
hub, Orly, through 1 p.m. local time.  Air France will allow passengers to delay planned journeys
until March 5, it said in a statement published in Les Echos.
Travelers should check flights before heading to the airport.  Eurostar Timetable  Eurostar canceled eight of 52 services today to help cope
with speed restrictions imposed to minimize the risk of picking
up snow from below and damage from ice projections as trains
pass, spokesman  Richard Holligan  said in a telephone interview.  The measures aren’t related to breakdowns in the tunnel
that followed heavy snow last winter, for which the fleet has
undergone a winterization program, he said.  While restrictions have been removed on the High Speed 1
line into London’s St Pancras station, allowing trains to run at
a maximum 300 kilometers per hour (186 mph), speed limits of 230
kmph are in place in northern France and Belgium, Holligan said.  “Rather than having trains backed up we’re consolidating
services and putting more people onto fewer trains,” he said.  Eurostar has cleared a backlog that led to lines of
passengers snaking 600 meters (2,000 feet) around St Pancras
this week, but won’t be taking new bookings until Dec. 26, said
Holligan, adding that more snow is expected in France tomorrow.  Police Request  The Prefecture of Police in Paris yesterday asked employers
to let staff head home at 4 p.m., and similar requests are
possible if blizzards continue,  Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet , the
French environment minister, said on RTL radio.  At Heathrow airport, about 1,200 flights, or more than 90
percent of services, should operate today, BAA spokesman  Stuart Butchers  said in a phone interview.  Though there are no operational restrictions it will take a
few more days for services to return to normal and there is no
guarantee that this will happen in time for Christmas, he said.
BAA Chief Executive Officer  Colin Matthews  said yesterday he’ll
forgo an unspecified annual bonus following the disruption.  British Airways Plc , Heathrow’s biggest carrier, said today
it would aim to operate all long-haul flights there, plus the
“vast majority” of European services, on which it will boost
capacity by using planes including 275-seat Boeing Co. 777s.
That will continue to be the case tomorrow, a statement said.  Willie Walsh , the airline’s CEO, e-mailed customers
yesterday evening asking them to continue checking on flights
before leaving for the airport and to consider canceling non-
essential trips in return for a refund or later booking.  Virgin, Cathay  Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. , the U.K.’s second-biggest
long-haul carrier, said yesterday that it had a “massive
backlog” of flights at Heathrow and passengers should expect
continued disruption until next week.  Hong Kong-based Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. said it will
operate the last of three rescue flights from the U.K. this
afternoon to eliminate a backlog of stranded passengers.  Dublin airport closed at 9:30 a.m. local time following
“persistent heavy snowfalls” which rendered the runway unsafe,
its website said. The terminal reopened in the early afternoon.  In Brussels, flights to Berlin and Hamburg were canceled,
with services to or from cities including New York, Toronto,
Philadelphia, Moscow, Munich and Stockholm suffering delays.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG will provide its regular schedule
today at Frankfurt airport, where all runways are in operation,
a Fraport AG customer hotline representative said.  U.S. Waivers  The weather spurred United Continental Holdings Inc., Delta
Air Lines Inc. and AMR Corp.’s American Airlines, the three
largest U.S. carriers, to retain waivers allowing passengers on
some European flights to rebook trips without a penalty.  Heavy snow is forecast for parts of Scotland and northeast
England today, which is likely to mark the peak for pre-
Christmas road travel, according to the Automobile Association,
Britain’s biggest car-rescue service.  Lighter falls are expected east of London, according to the
 Met Office ’s website, which warns of “widespread icy roads” and
temperatures as low as minus 15 Celsius (5 Fahrenheit). There’s
a risk of significant heavy snow in Kent and Sussex, south of
the capital, on Christmas Eve, the state-funded agency said.  U.K. long-distance train company East Coast, which links
London with Edinburgh via Leeds and Newcastle upon Tyne, has
canceled 29 trains today and tomorrow because of adverse
weather, according to the National Rail Enquiries website.  Many trains on FirstGroup Plc’s Great Western route to
southwest England and Wales are also subject to delay and
cancellation, National Rail Enquiries said.  On-time train performance slumped in Britain in the 28 days
through Dec. 11, which includes the start of the current cold
snap, according to figures from track and stations owner Network
Rail Ltd. published today. More than 18 percent of services were
significantly late, compared with 10.6 percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  