-- Edison Scraps Accord to Buy Output From Tessera Solar Plant in California
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2010-12-24T00:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/edison-cancels-power-contract-at-tessera-california-solar-plant.html
Edison International , owner of
California’s largest electric utility, said in a regulatory
filing it terminated an agreement to buy solar power from
Tessera Solar’s plant in Southern California.  Edison had sought approval from the California Public
Utilities Commission for a contract with Tessera’s planned 663-
megawatt solar project in the Mojave Desert east of Los Angeles.
Edison notified the commission today of the termination in the
filing.  Vanessa McGrady, a spokeswoman for Rosemead, California-
based Edison, declined to comment on the reason for the
cancellation, citing a nondisclosure agreement. Tessera is
pursuing alternative power-purchase agreements for the project,
Janette Coates, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The cancellation of the contract is “close to the stake in
the heart of the project,” said Eric Wesoff, a senior analyst
at Greentech Media in San Francisco. “When that utility says
‘we are no longer interested in buying that power’ and cancels
that power-purchase agreement, that leaves that project
essentially orphaned.”  Tessera, a unit of closely held, Dublin-based utility NTR
Plc, won approval in October from U.S. Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  to build its Calico plant on federal land. The
California Energy Commission, which licenses power plants in the
state, approved the facility on Dec. 1, according to a
 statement . The plant would be built 37 miles (60 kilometers)
east of Barstow.  Southern California Edison said last month it expects to
deliver 19 percent to 20 percent of its power from renewable
resources by the end of 2010, up from 17 percent last year.  California requires investor-owned utilities to supply 20
percent of their capacity from clean-energy sources by the end
of this year, increasing to 33 percent by 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Chediak  in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 