-- Emerging Market Stocks Advance for Third Day on Global Recovery Prospects
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2010-12-23T09:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/emerging-market-stocks-rise-for-third-day-on-u-s-economy-growth.html
Emerging-market stocks fluctuated as
increasing confidence in the strength of the U.S. recovery was
offset by concern that China’s tightening measures will slow
growth in the world’s third-largest economy.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. , which makes Apple Inc.
iPhones and Hewlett-Packard Co. computers, climbed 1.7 percent
after a government report showing the U.S. economy expanded
faster than estimated.  China Vanke Co.  dropped 1.8 percent in
the southern city of Shenzhen as a Chinese gauge of lending
rates rose to the highest level in more than three years.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  was little changed at
1,126.37 as of 9:49 p.m. London time, after gaining 0.2 percent
and falling 0.1 percent. Taiwan’s  Taiex index  rose 0.4 percent,
the highest close since May 2008. The  Philippine Stock Exchange
Index  gained 1.3 percent to a two-week high. The  Shanghai
Composite Index , Asia’s worst performing benchmark gauge this
year, sank 0.8 percent.  “Uncertainty over further controls is ruling the market,”
said Deng Changrong, a strategist at Huaxi Securities Co. in
Shenzhen. “As the market lacks liquidity at the moment, there’s
no support for a strong rebound.”  Stocks in emerging Europe and Africa fluctuated, with the
Czech Republic’s PX gauge up 0.2 percent, Hungary’s BUX and
Poland’s WIG20 both fell 0.2 percent and the benchmark index in
South Africa was little changed.  Air Pact  Hon Hai Precision , which gets about 36 percent of sales
from America, rose to a two-month high in Taipei. Catcher
Technology Co., a maker of notebook casings, advanced 6.7
percent.  A gauge tracking information technology stocks rose the
most among the 10 industry groups on MSCI’s developing-nation
measure.  In Kuala Lumpur,  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. , the
national carrier, advanced 5.4 percent, gaining for a second day
on the signing of an agreement with  Air France-KLM Group’s  Dutch
KLM unit to foster closer cooperation.  Alliance Global Group Inc. , owner of the Philippines’
largest casino and the local franchise of McDonald’s, surged 6.3
percent, the second-biggest gain on the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index today. The company said it will buy 60 percent of Fil-
Estate Land Inc. for 5 billion pesos ($113 million) to expand
its tourism-related business. Fil-Estate surged 26 percent, its
biggest gain since March 1.  China Vanke , the nation’s largest developer, retreated 1.8
percent. Cinda Real Estate Co. lost 1.7 percent.  China’s benchmark money-market rate surged to a three-year
high as banks hoard cash before the New Year holiday. The seven-
day repo rate jumped 150 basis points to 5.67 percent, according
to a daily fixing published by the National Interbank Funding
Center. Policymakers on Dec. 10 ordered lenders to park more
money with the central bank for the third time in five weeks to
limit inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 