-- EPA Plans `Modest' Pace for Setting New Standards on Greenhouse Gases
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 2010-12-23T16:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/epa-plans-modest-pace-for-setting-new-standards-on-greenhouse-gases.html
The U.S.  Environmental Protection
Agency , under fire from lawmakers trying to stop greenhouse-gas
rules set to start next month, said it will issue a second wave
of carbon-emissions regulations by July.  The EPA will propose new standards under the Clean Air Act
for power plants by July and for oil refineries by December as
part of an agreement with environmental groups and states
pushing for further limits on emissions linked to climate
change, the agency said in a statement today.  The agency will begin its first phase of regulating carbon-
dioxide pollution from power utilities and refineries on Jan. 2.
The new rule, pushed by President Barack Obama after Congress
failed to pass legislation capping greenhouse gases, is opposed
by Republicans, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Democratic
lawmakers such as Senator Jay Rockefeller of West Virginia.  The agency said in the statement that its timetable sets
“a modest pace.”  EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson today sought to respond to
concern that the rules will burden business with excessive new
costs and hurt the economy.  “These standards will help American companies attract
private investment to the clean energy upgrades that make our
companies more competitive and create good jobs here at home,”
Jackson said in the statement.  Texas Governor Rick Perry, a Republican, has said his state
won’t cooperate with the rules taking effect next month because
they would cripple the economy. The regulations call for states
to apply the carbon rules through permits, issued when companies
seek to build or upgrade operations.  The EPA informed Texas yesterday that the agency will take
over regulation in the state if it fails to act.  “The unwillingness of Texas state officials to implement
this portion of the federal program leaves EPA no choice but to
resume its role as the permitting authority,” EPA Assistant
Administrator Gina McCarthy wrote in a Dec. 21 letter to Bryan
Shaw, chairmen of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality
in Austin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Washington at 
 Kchipman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 LLiebert@bloomberg.net . 