-- EPA Takes Control of Texas Carbon Permits as Perry Rejects U.S. Regulation
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 2010-12-23T22:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/epa-to-take-over-texas-carbon-permitting-as-dispute-over-rules-escalates.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency said it will take control of carbon-emission rules in
Texas after Governor  Rick Perry  rejected new federal regulations
intended to combat climate change.  The EPA will decide directly on greenhouse-gas permits for
companies seeking to build or upgrade power plants and oil
refineries in Texas, the agency said today in a statement. The
EPA’s nationwide carbon rules, imposed under the Clean Air Act,
take effect Jan. 2.  Texas is the only state that has refused to implement the
new rules. President  Barack Obama  is pressing ahead with the
regulations after Congress failed to pass legislation capping
carbon emissions. Perry, a Republican, calls the rules
overreaching by the federal government that will cripple his
state’s economy.  “The EPA’s misguided plan paints a huge target on the
backs of Texas agriculture and energy producers by implementing
unnecessary, burdensome mandates on our state’s energy sector,
threatening hundreds of thousands of Texas jobs and imposing
increased living costs on Texas families,” Katherine Cesinger,
a Perry spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The American Petroleum Institute in Washington, the largest
U.S. lobbying group for the oil and gas industry, called the
EPA’s plan improper.  ‘Coercing’ States  “In unprecedented fashion, EPA is now coercing some states
to relinquish their authority and is directly usurping state
regulatory authority in Texas,” Howard Feldman,  API ’s director
of regulatory and scientific affairs, said in a statement.  The EPA’s rules are set to start 13 months after the agency
declared carbon-dioxide emissions a danger to public health and
welfare. The EPA’s “endangerment finding” followed a Supreme
Court ruling in 2007 that the agency has the authority to
regulate carbon emissions under the Clean Air Act.  Neil Carman, who studies air pollution for the Sierra Club,
an environmental advocacy group in Austin, said the new rules
won’t be costly to implement, comparing them to measures aimed
at reducing acid rain in the 1980s. Businesses that opposed the
rules at the time ultimately benefited from them, he said.  “There have always been these scare stories -- ‘the sky is
falling,’” he said. “The sky isn’t going to fall.”  EPA Assistant Administrator  Gina McCarthy  said today that
the the agency isn’t taking over Texas’s permitting program. She
said its handling of carbon regulations was meant to supplement
the existing permit process.  “All we are trying to do is ensure that Texas businesses
that are applying for a  Clean Air Act  permit can get one and
have somebody to apply to,” she told reporters on a conference
call today.  Seven States  Most states are prepared to grant the permits starting Jan.
2, according to the EPA. Seven have agreed to have the agency
issue permits while they revise their programs to accommodate
the new rules.  Texas emits about 11 percent of U.S. greenhouse-gas
emissions, more than any other state, according to Texas EPA
spokesman David Gray. If Texas were a country it would be the
world’s eighth-largest polluter, he said.  Texas, home to about a fourth of U.S. oil refining
capacity, has more coal-fired electrical capacity than any state
in the U.S., according to the San Francisco-based Sierra Club.  Talks Continue  The EPA remains in talks with Texas and views federal
control of greenhouse-gas permits in the state as a temporary
arrangement, McCarthy said.  “We are more than willing and in fact anxious about how
quickly we can work with them to have them take over,” she
said.  Business groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and
Republicans and some Democrats in Congress are pushing to halt
the EPA’s authority over greenhouse gases.  The agency announced today a plan to propose a second wave
of greenhouse-gas regulations. The move was part of a lawsuit
settlement with environmental groups and states, such as New
York and California, that pushed the Obama administration to go
further to limit heat-trapping emissions.  “Power plants and oil refineries are among the top three
emitters of carbon dioxide in the country,” California’s
Governor-elect  Jerry Brown  said in a statement. “While
California has been aggressive in regulating such emissions,
until recently, the federal government has not.”  The EPA will propose new standards for utilities by July
and for oil refineries by December, McCarthy said today. Those
rules will be made final for power plants by May 2012 and for
refineries by November 2012, she said.  Attracting Investment  EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson  today sought to respond to
concern that the rules will burden business with excessive new
costs and hurt the economy.  “These standards will help American companies attract
private investment to the clean energy upgrades that make our
companies more competitive and create good jobs here at home,”
Jackson said in the statement.  The EPA officials said today it’s too early to know what
the new rules, known as “new source performance standards” for
pollutants under the Clean Air Act, will entail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Washington at 
 Kchipman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 LLiebert@bloomberg.net . 