-- Bond Yields Lowest to Stocks Driving `Hot Money' to Shares: Russia Credit
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-12-23T21:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/equity-yields-highest-to-bonds-lure-hot-money-russia-credit.html
The highest earnings on Russian
stocks compared with bond yields are spurring the biggest equity
fund inflows in a year on bets rising commodities prices will
help extend the best rally among the largest emerging markets.  The 30 stocks in Russia’s  Micex Index  have an earnings
yield, or profits as a proportion of share prices, of 11.1
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 1.9
times the 5.85 percent yield on Russian corporate dollar bonds,
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index . The average
multiple of 2.05 percent since June is the highest for any half-
year period since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 2003.  The Micex has gained 22 percent this year, beating indexes
in Brazil, India and China, as the biggest energy exporting
country benefits from a 26 percent advance in oil in the past
four months and investor expectations it will join the World
Trade Organization. Investors poured $2.6 billion into Russia
stock funds this quarter, the most since 2009 and four times the
amount for bonds, according to data compiled by  EPFR Global , a
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research company.  “There is a clear shift in Russia money going from bonds
towards riskier instruments like stocks,”  Mark Rubinstein , head
of research at Metropol IFC in Moscow, said in a telephone
interview. “Investors see that most blue-chip bonds are
yielding 5 percent or even less.”  The yield on dollar bonds sold by Russian companies has
fallen 14.5 percentage points since October 2008 from 20.4
percent, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index .
Russia’s average is lower than the 6.21 percent yield for
 corporate bonds in Brazil , according to the index.  Gazprom, Severstal  The earnings yield of OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas export
monopoly, is 21.5 percent, according to Bloomberg data. The
state-owned company’s dollar bonds due in 2015 yielded 4.493
percent yesterday.  OAO Severstal , Russia’s biggest steelmaker, more than
doubled on the Micex Stock Exchange this year, the biggest gain
on the Moscow-based bourse in 2010. That compares with a 20
percent total return for the Cherepovets-based company’s dollar
bonds due in 2013, Bloomberg data show.  “Russia is flavor of the month among emerging market equity
strategists,”  Brad Durham , a co-founder of EPFR Global, said in
emailed comments. “The market is trading at an attractive
valuation and the expectation of energy sector outperformance in
the coming year is benefiting Russian energy firms.”  The Micex Index jumped 16 percent this quarter, beating a
4.8 percent increase for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index , after
underperforming for the first three quarters.  Evraz, Mechel  Evraz Group SA , Russia’s second-largest steelmaker, surged
14 percent in the past month, and  OAO Mechel , the country’s
largest producer of coal for steelmakers, soared 20 percent as
commodities rallied and Russia moved a step closer to membership
of the WTO by signing an agreement with the European Union on
Dec. 7. Russia’s winning bid to host the 2018 World Cup
contributed to the gains as the government prepares to spend
$3.8 billion on stadiums and expand airports and roads.  The earnings yield for the Micex is more than double the
rate for China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  and India’s  Sensex
Index  at 5.4 percent and compares with Brazil’s  Bovespa Index  at
7.3 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The inflows to equity funds this quarter is the highest
since the $2.85 billion received in the last quarter of 2009,
and the third-biggest total since the first quarter of 2006 when
Russian funds took in $3.8 billion, EPFR data show.  ‘Hot Money’  “Speculative hot money” from exchange-traded funds
contributed to the inflows, said  Chris Weafer , chief strategist
at UralSib Financial Corp.  Blackrock Inc.,  the world’s biggest money manager,  opened 
its iShares MSCI Capped Russian Index fund on Nov. 10. It
follows Van Eck Associates Corp.’s Market Vectors Russia ETF set
up in April 2007 and SSGA Fund Management Inc.’s SPDR S&P Russia
ETF, which began in March 2010.  “ETFs are very momentum-driven and we are seeing a lot
flows, especially after iShares launched its fund,” Weafer said
in a Dec. 22 phone interview from London. “But ETF money tends
to be a lot less stable than mutual funds, which charge higher
fees and have longer time-horizons.”  Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 rose, pushing the yield
13 basis points lower to 5.01 percent. The extra yield investors
demand to hold Russian debt rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 4
basis points to 196 yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI+ indexes. The difference compares with 140 for debt
of similarly rated Mexico and 179 for Brazil, which is rated two
steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service.  Spreads, Swaps  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 43 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, the widest gap since Oct. 21,
according to JPMorgan.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell 2 basis points
yesterday to 147, down from this year’s peak of 217, according
to data provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s, its
third-lowest investment grade rating, cost 6 basis points more
than contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower at
Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40 points less on April 20.  The ruble, which is managed by the central bank against a
dollar-euro basket to limit swings, was little changed at
30.6100 per dollar in Moscow yesterday, its strongest level
since Nov. 11. Non-deliverable forwards, which provide a guide
to expectations of currency movements and interest-rate
differentials, show the ruble weakening to 30.8500 per dollar in
three months.  Slower Growth  While earnings yields are better in Russia, companies in
the other so-called BRIC nations benefit from higher rates of
economic growth. Russia’s economic expansion at 3.8 percent this
year compares with 7.5 percent in Brazil, 9.7 percent in India
and 10.5 percent in China, according to forecasts by the
International Monetary Fund in Washington.  Russian stocks are outperforming as oil is trading above
$90, the highest price in two years. Shares in Russia will gain
10 to 20 percent in 2011, with the market slowing down in the
second half of the year as interest rates and inflation climb,
Metropol’s Rubinstein said.  “Rotation is definitely happening, with most of the
inflows accounting to second and third tier companies because of
the better valuations,”  Gregory Klumov , chief investment
officer at Moscow-based Everest Asset Management, which oversees
about $300 million, said in e-mailed comments on Dec. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  