-- Merkel's CDU Party Fined $1.6 Million for Donations Violation in Rhineland
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-12-23T14:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/merkel-s-cdu-party-fined-1-6-million-for-donations-violation-in-rhineland.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
Christian Democratic Union was fined 1.2 million euros ($1.6
million) for breaching party donation rules, adding to the CDU’s
difficulties as it prepares to fight seven state elections.  The fine was imposed by the lower house of parliament in
Berlin, the Bundestag, for party funding violations in the
western state of Rhineland-Palatinate at the time of a regional
election in 2006, according to  a statement  posted today on the
parliament website citing Bundestag President  Norbert Lammert.   The CDU’s parliamentary group in the state paid 401,000
euros in contracts to lobby firms “with the aim of giving
financial support to the party’s election campaign” and thus
saving expenses, the statement said. “These savings are to be
apportioned to the party as an inadmissible donation” under
German laws on political party funding.  The finding is a blow to Merkel as she struggles to rally
voter support ahead of elections next year in seven of  Germany’s
16 states . Trailing the opposition nationally as taxpayers
grumble over the cost of the euro-area debt crisis, Merkel goes
into the regional elections in less than two months lumbered
with a Free Democratic federal coalition partner that is polling
below the level needed to win parliamentary seats.  In Rhineland-Palatinate, where Helmut Kohl ruled as state
prime minister from 1969 to 1976 before he went on to become
chancellor, Merkel’s CDU has in recent weeks been closing on the
ruling Social Democrats led by current state premier,  Kurt Beck .  Even so, polls suggest Beck could stay in office after the
March 27 election by forming a coalition with the Greens. In
2006, Beck beat the CDU so comprehensively that he was able to
form a government without need of a coalition partner, the only
such administration in Germany.  In neighboring Baden-Wuerttemberg, which also votes on
March 27, the ruling coalition of CDU and Free Democrats is at
risk of being ejected, polls show. Likewise in Hamburg, opinion
polls suggest Merkel’s party is unlikely to retain power after
Feb. 20, the first of the state elections.  Votes will also be held next year in Saxony-Anhalt, Bremen
and  Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania , with the final ballot in
Berlin, both the capital city and a federal state, on Sept. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  