-- Ernst & Young Is Nuts to Say Lehman Was Clean: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2010-12-23T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/ernst-young-is-nuts-to-say-lehman-was-clean-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
Two weeks before New York Attorney
General  Andrew Cuomo ’s office sued Ernst & Young LLP, a
prominent U.S. consulting firm issued a press release touting
its ability to help others manage the risk of fraud.  “As companies return to growth, new risks related to fraud
and corruption will emerge, bringing compliance to the forefront
for boards of directors, audit committees and senior management
of global companies,” the firm  said .  “Dealing with complex issues of fraud, regulatory
compliance and business disputes can detract from efforts to
achieve your company’s potential. Better management of fraud
risk and compliance exposure is a critical business priority --
no matter the industry sector.”  Talk about chutzpah. The firm that wrote that was none
other than Ernst & Young, the longtime outside auditor for
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which went bankrupt in 2008 while
sporting financial statements that bore little evidence of the
calamity to come. Sure, E&Y may have lots of experience in this
field. Much of it, though, is the wrong kind.  In its civil  lawsuit  this week, Cuomo’s office alleged that
E&Y helped Lehman engage in a massive accounting fraud -- and
committed fraud itself in the process. The surprise wasn’t in
the suit’s factual assertions, many of which were contained in a
March report by Lehman’s bankruptcy examiner,  Anton Valukas .
Allegations of misconduct at E&Y have become such a routine part
of the firm’s business that they’ve come to be expected.  Big News  Rather, the big news was that anyone filed the case at all,
and that it was the departing New York attorney general who did
it instead of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Finally
there’s a sign some outfit at the epicenter of Lehman’s collapse
might be held accountable. Still, it’s more than a bit odd that
the defendants in Cuomo’s suit didn’t include anyone who worked
for Lehman, or any of the E&Y accountants responsible for
auditing the securities firm’s books.  E&Y had established itself as a repeat offender long before
Governor-Elect Cuomo filed his suit. In recent years we’ve seen
four former E&Y partners sentenced to prison for selling illegal
tax shelters, while other  partners  have been  disciplined  by the
SEC for blessing fraudulent financial statements at a variety of
 companies , including  Cendant Corp.  and  Bally Total Fitness
Holding Corp.   In the Bally case, E&Y last year paid an $8.5 million fine,
without admitting or denying the SEC’s professional-misconduct
claims. The SEC also has imposed  sanctions  against E&Y three
times since 2004 for  violating  its  auditor-independence  rules.  Yet it seems there’s little anyone can do to keep E&Y on
the straight and narrow. Killing E&Y or any of the other Big
Four audit firms -- PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Deloitte &
Touche LLP and KPMG LLP -- would leave just three large
survivors, when the industry has too few competitors already.  Going Down  We can’t have another firm go down like Arthur Andersen did
after its indictment in 2002, the conventional wisdom goes. And
so these firms are permitted to plod along, fending off one
regulator after another, knowing they will be allowed to carry
on no matter how much they offend the public’s sense of decency.  The latest case against E&Y stems from Lehman’s use of
transactions the investment bank called  Repo 105 . Lehman used
these deals to move as much as $50 billion of securities off its
balance sheet in a given quarter and temporarily reduce its
reported debt, usually for about a week at a time. Lehman got
the assets off its books by treating the transactions as sales
rather than financings for accounting purposes. This let Lehman
show lower  leverage  ratios, according to Valukas’s report.  No Change  That E&Y hasn’t changed its ways is clear from the press
release it issued this week responding to Cuomo’s suit. “There
is no factual or legal basis for a claim to be brought against
an auditor in this context where the accounting for the
underlying transaction is in accordance with the generally
accepted accounting principles,” the firm said.  That isn’t an accurate depiction of the claims Cuomo
brought, though. Cuomo’s suit unambiguously took the position
that Lehman violated GAAP. What’s more, it’s not credible for
E&Y to say that Lehman didn’t. (An E&Y spokesman,  Charles Perkins , said he “can’t comment beyond our statement.”)  In the footnotes to its audited financial statements,
Lehman said it accounted for all its repurchase agreements as
financings. This was false, because Lehman accounted for its
Repo 105 transactions as sales, a point the Valukas report
chronicled in exhaustive detail.  Back to Class  As any freshman accounting major can tell you, it’s a
 violation  of GAAP for a company to tell investors it’s using one
type of accounting treatment when it’s actually using another,
especially when the method it’s secretly employing makes its
balance sheet look stronger. Yet E&Y still insists that Lehman
followed the rules. It’s hard to tell which is more insane: The
notion that E&Y’s bosses might believe their own spin, or that
they think anybody else will.  It’s indisputable that E&Y blessed Lehman’s financial
statements quarter after quarter, year after year, falsehoods
and all. What the state would need to prove to win at trial is
that the firm’s actions amounted to fraud.  For the time being, E&Y is saying it looks forward to
presenting the facts in a court of law. If it hopes to prevail
there, it will need to come up with a more believable defense
than the nonsense it’s trumpeting now.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  