-- Estee Lauder, Burberry Entice Chinese, Brazilian Globetrotters at Airports
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2010-12-23T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/estee-lauder-burberry-entice-chinese-brazilians-at-airports.html
Returning travelers typically rush
through the airport as fast as they can. Then there’s Yan Xue.
She lingers in Beijing Capital International Airport long enough
to load up on duty-free cosmetics.  The creams and moisturizers are as much as 30 percent
cheaper than in town. Plus “shopping at the airport is
convenient,” said Yan, a 34-year-old project manager who had
just arrived from a business trip to South Korea.  Yan represents an increasingly attractive customer for
purveyors of cosmetics and fashion: middle-class globetrotters
from China, Brazil, Russia and other emerging markets who see
airports as malls -- not to mention places where they can buy
stuff that may be unavailable at home.  Companies such as  Estee Lauder  Cos., Salvatore Ferragamo
Italia SpA and  Burberry Group Plc  have pounced on the
opportunity. Estee Lauder, for one, is hiring airport
salespeople who are fluent in Mandarin, Portuguese and Russian,
and trained to respect their customers’ cultural proclivities.  “We don’t sit on our hands and wait for today’s consumers
to come,” said Olivier Bottrie, the company’s New York-based
chief of travel retail. Airport-related sales rose about 24
percent in the first nine months of this year, he says.  Sales of fragrances and cosmetics at duty-free and other
airport stores climbed 13 percent to $8.74 billion in the first
nine months of 2010, according to Örnsköldsvik, Sweden-based
Generation Research. Sales may reach $11.5 billion in 2010 and
$12.9 billion in 2011, driven largely by Latin American and
Asian travelers, the firm says.  Shopping ‘Cathedrals’  Airports are the shopping “cathedrals of the 21st
century,” Salvatore Ferragamo Italia SpA Chief Executive
Officer  Michele Norsa  said in an interview.  To make sure fliers worship at the house of Lauder, the New
York-based company is working with travel sites to give tourists
coupons they can print with their boarding passes. Estee Lauder
put 13 percent more staff in its airport stores and is training
them to understand cultural nuances -- being more reserved
toward Chinese shoppers, say, than Brazilians.  When passengers land from Shanghai or Beijing, Estee
Lauder’s workers push eye make-up and moisturizers, popular
items for  Chinese travelers , to prominent spots. When flights
arrive from Sao Paulo, they rotate the fragrances Brazilians
favor up front.  About a quarter of the products sold at airport and duty-
free shops were developed exclusively for those outlets, Bottrie
said. Among them: Estee Lauder Super Flight Cream and a perfume
called Adventurous.  Stefani Dolls  To boost its airport sales in Asia, Coty Inc.’s Prestige
division is introducing products tailored to Chinese tastes,
such as miniature gift boxes and singer Gwen Stefani’s Harajuku
Lovers dolls. The world’s largest maker of fragrances is also
introducing merchandise at airports in such Chinese “outskirt”
cities as Chengdu, Guangzhou, Xiamen and Qingdao.  The New York-based perfume company has added staff at key
hubs such as Incheon in Korea, Shanghai Pudong and Beijing in
China, Delhi and Mumbai in India, Taipei in Taiwan, and Changi
in Singapore. Coty is also recruiting Chinese-speaking sales
assistants in Korea and Singapore and increasing the frequency
of product training in Asia.  “People are buying more,” said Coty Prestige President
 Michele Scannavini , who says Coty’s airport visits rose almost
10 percent in October, much of it driven by Asian travelers.
“The Chinese are traveling a lot and we think they are among
the top two or three population in terms of purchase of duty
free worldwide now.”  Travel retail accounts for almost 15 percent of Coty
Prestige sales, Scannavini says.  Other luxury-goods sellers are seeing similar trends.  Burberry Cosmetics  Burberry’s travel retail business in Asia is performing
“very strongly, driven by Chinese customers,” Pascal Perrier,
who heads the luxury company’s business in the region, said on a
conference call last month. London-based Burberry introduced a
cosmetics line in July.  Shoemaker Ferragamo recently opened a store at Beijing
airport, where sales are double forecasts, Norsa said. The bulk
of its airport sales come from Asia, and it’s planning to open
more boutiques in domestic airports there, he said.  “Asians are very much oriented to sales in the airports
and also onboard,” Norsa said. “People also spend more time in
the airport than in Europe. You have millions and millions of
passengers, potential customers.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net .
-0- Dec/23/ :00 GMT 