-- Ethnic Makeup of U.S. Increasingly Diverse as Mixed-Race Parentage Expands
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-12-23T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/ethnic-makeup-of-u-s-increasingly-diverse-as-mixed-race-parentage-expands.html
The ethnic makeup of the world’s
largest economy will be increasingly diverse, with more mixed-
race Americans, according to the head of the U.S. Census Bureau.  “This is the decade of  Tiger Woods  and  Barack Obama , where
we talked about race combinations,”  Robert Groves , director of
the federal agency, said about forthcoming 2010 Census data in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with
 Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. “I can’t wait to see the
pattern of responses on multiple races. That’ll be a neat
indicator to watch.”  The 2010 Census was the second consecutive decennial count
to allow residents to identify as more than one race, and Groves
said it’s likely that more respondents checked off multiple
races.  The nation’s population grew 9.7 percent to 308,745,538 in
2010, from the previous decade, with the fastest gains coming in
the South and West, the  agency  said this week. The release
included only U.S. and state population figures, with more data
on race, ethnicity, housing and other variables provided in
February and March for all levels of geography.  “We’ll be taught something about our society, and that is
new ethnic groups are going all over the country,” Groves said.
“It’s not just the coasts and it’s not just urban areas.”  Weak Growth  The overall growth, driven by an increase in Hispanic
residents, was the weakest in seven decades as the worst
recession since the Great Depression stunted immigration. The
latest U.S. population count shows the nation’s demographic
center of gravity continued to shift, advancing a decades-old
movement of people and political clout away from the Northeast
and Midwest.  “This is the first decade, I point out, that the Western
region is larger than the Midwest region,” Groves said. “The
West region, these states that came last into the Union,
sparsely settled, that’s filling up in a way that we’ve never
seen before.”  When Obama was born in 1961, more than half the nation
-- 54 percent -- lived in the Midwest and Northeast. Now, midway
through his first term, 39 percent live there, the census data
show.  Fresh Inflow  States including Texas, Florida and Arizona are witnessing
a fresh inflow of people from within the U.S. and beyond the
nation’s borders and will benefit from more representation in
Washington. Ohio, New York and New Jersey are among the states
that will lose seats in Congress.  Congressional seats are  reapportioned  every decade after
completion of the census, with each district to have roughly the
same number of people, about 710,000 in the next decade.  The Census Bureau will roll out in February and March
detailed block-level data needed to redraw congressional
districts. That information will be loaded into mapping
software, and states will begin building their new districts
over the following months.  In 2008, Hispanics voted for Obama by a ratio of more than
2-to-1, according to the nonpartisan  Pew Hispanic Center  in
Washington. The role Hispanic population growth will play in the
nation’s politics won’t be fully known until the new districts
are drawn.  A New Look  The population counts mark the start of a  new look at
America  from the census. The data will be used by the government
to distribute more than $400 billion in annual  federal funding ,
by businesses to identify markets, and by social scientists to
examine the changing demographics.  “The business community can really profit from this small
geographic detail,” Groves said. He said the agency’s  American
Fact Finder  can be used by small business owners “to assemble
data for the market area he or she is interested in attacking to
make good decisions about what the market looks like.”  In the broader, global context, Groves said the slower pace
of population growth in the U.S. is similar to Europe’s and
those of other advanced economies.  “It turns out it’s happening in most developed societies
around the world,” he said. “It has to do with lower fertility
rates.”  The U.S. has the lowest median age of any of the Group of
Seven nations, according to United Nations’ estimates for 2010.
Youthfulness is one variable for future growth because younger
people tend to have more children.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 