-- European Fuel Rules Cut Demand for ICE Gasoil Futures, JBC Energy Says
-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 2010-12-23T11:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/european-fuel-rules-cut-demand-for-ice-gasoil-jbc-energy-says.html
European consumers are using
increased volumes of low-sulfur gasoil, reducing demand for the
grade sold on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange, JBC Energy
GmbH said.  Demand for ICE gasoil, which has a sulfur content of 1,000
parts per million, will be reduced next year to 450,000 barrels
a day, JBC Energy GmbH wrote in a report today. That’s about 7.5
percent of the European market, according to the report.  Some European governments are introducing legislation to
encourage sales of cleaner fuels for environmental reasons. The
German government reduced taxes on lower-sulfur fuels at the
beginning of 2009. Turkey is also moving to cleaner fuels from
the beginning of next year.  This could affect other oil products including  jet fuel ,
which trade at a differential to the ICE gasoil contract. “This
means that the fundamentals of the benchmark grade for all
pricing will become more volatile,” JBC said.  ICE is looking at the contract specification, according to
JBC. The exchange couldn’t be reached for comment when Bloomberg
News called an office number in London today.  German sales of low-sulfur gasoil, which has no more than
50 parts per million of sulfur, rose by 75 percent in the first
nine months of this year to 7.1 million tons, according to
Germany’s Federal Office of Economics and Export Control. Sales
of the more polluting gasoil, the European equivalent of heating
oil, fell in the same period.  Declining demand in Germany for ICE gasoil may explain the
drop in deliveries on the exchange in the last two months,
according to SEB AB. Traders took delivery of 88,100 metric tons
of fuel when the December contract expired. That was down on
353,800 in the same month a year earlier.  “The low delivery figure is related to the German switch
but also the Turkish,” Filip Petersson, a Stockholm-based
commodities strategist at SEB AB, said on Dec. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  