-- Expedia Hides American Airfares After Orbitz Dispute
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2010-12-23T21:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/expedia-hides-american-airlines-fares-in-support-of-travel-website-orbitz.html
Expedia Inc.’ s travel website is
hiding airfares for  American Airlines  after the third-largest
U.S. carrier pulled data from  Orbitz Worldwide Inc.  as part of a
legal dispute.  Prices for American flights no longer appear at the top of
the site when passengers search for tickets, while those for
competitors such as  United Continental Holdings Inc.  are still
shown side by side so travelers can compare.  “This has been done in light of both American Airlines’
recent decision to prevent Orbitz from selling its inventory,
and a possible disruption in Expedia’s ability to sell American
Airlines tickets when our contract with American Airlines
expires,” Expedia said today in an e-mailed statement. The
company declined to say when its accord with American ends.  The move by Bellevue, Washington-based Expedia widened the
conflict between online travel agencies and airlines such as
American that seek to drive more consumers to their own
websites.  AMR Corp. ’s American won a court ruling against Orbitz
on Dec. 21 and removed its flight data within hours.  “We’re disappointed that Expedia is making American
Airlines flights and fares more difficult to find,”  Ryan Mikolasik , a spokesman for American, said in an e-mailed
statement. “This discriminatory action is unwarranted,
especially considering that American has taken no action against
and continues to operate in good faith with Expedia.”  Click for Prices  A search today of the Expedia.com site for a ticket from
American’s hometown hub at Dallas-Fort Worth airport to its
Chicago hub in the first week of January showed a nonstop United
flight for $282 and one by  US Airways Group Inc.  for $511. A
message read “see below” for American information.  Consumers must click through outbound and return flight
times to see the price of the American ticket.  American has developed a system called Direct Connect that
provides fare pricing and options directly to larger online
travel agencies. The Fort Worth, Texas-based airline also is
trying to handle more bookings through its AA.com website.  American dropped Orbitz after an Illinois state court in
Chicago lifted a temporary restraining order granted last month
that prevented the airline from doing so. Orbitz is partly owned
by Travelport LP, which distributes airline fare data.  Delta, United  Delta Air Lines Inc. , the second-largest U.S. carrier, said
Dec. 21 it was terminating three online travel sites,
CheapOAir.com, OneTravel.com and BookIt.com as authorized travel
agents.  United Continental, the world’s largest airline, plans to
end ties with Travelport for reservations and switch to  Hewlett-
Packard Co. ’s Shares system, which was used by merger partner
Continental Airlines, Chief Information Officer  Keith Halbert 
told employees in a Dec. 21 memo. A United spokesman,  Mike Trevino , confirmed the memo’s authenticity today.  Expedia  fell 29 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $26.33 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  AMR  slid 17 cents,
or 2.1 percent, to $7.78 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  The American-Orbitz dispute flared on Nov. 4 when the
airline said it would stop providing fare data on Dec. 1 unless
a new contract was reached. That triggered a court bid to block
the move and criticism by Orbitz Chief Executive Officer  Barney Harford  that American was making a “broad attack” on ticket
distributors.  Expedia picked up that theme in its e-mailed statement.  ‘Anti-Choice’  “American Airlines has shown it only intends to do
business with travel agencies through a new model that is anti-
consumer and anti-choice,” Expedia said.  “American Airlines’ proposed direct connect model will
result in higher costs and reduced transparency for consumers,
making it difficult to compare AA ticket prices and options with
offerings by other airlines,” Expedia said.  Sabre Holdings Corp. , the parent of Travelocity.com, said
Dec. 21 that American’s actions will “make it much harder and
more costly for agents and consumers to easily comparison shop
among airlines, which will result in increased prices for
consumers.”  Sabre is a former American unit that was spun off by the
airline in 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  