-- FAA May Need to Pay $500 Million More on Behind-Schedule Lockheed Project
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-12-23T21:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/faa-may-need-to-spend-500-million-more-on-lockheed-project.html
The  Federal Aviation Administration 
may need to spend $500 million more to complete an air-traffic
upgrade by Lockheed Martin Co. that is behind schedule and
exceeding costs, a Transportation Department inspector said.  Completing the  En Route Automation Modernization  project
will take as many as six more years, compared with the original
goal of finishing by the end of this year, Calvin Scovel, the
department inspector general, wrote in a letter to lawmakers
that was released today.  “A cost escalation of this magnitude will affect FAA’s
capital budget and could force the agency to reallocate funds
from other modernization projects to pay for” the Lockheed
program, Scovel wrote.  The ERAM project, which has cost $1.8 billion so far, will
replace a 43-year-old system that directs aircraft at high
altitudes in an effort to boost safety and efficiency in the
world’s busiest airspace. It was originally projected to cost
$2.1 billion as one of the FAA’s largest acquisition projects.  The project will cost $70 million, or 53 percent, more than
the FAA planned to spend in the current fiscal year to correct
system flaws, Scovel said.  The FAA said last April that the project may be delayed
after computer flaws forced the system’s removal five days after
its first activation in  Salt Lake City . The agency said at the
time that cost overruns weren’t yet projected.  Schedule Update  Sasha Johnson, an FAA spokeswoman, said in an e-mail today
that controllers are now using the system to handle traffic 24
hours a day in Salt Lake City and that testing in other
facilities “continues to go well.” The agency will release an
updated deployment schedule in coming weeks, she said.  “Lockheed Martin continues to support the FAA in its work
to fully implement the new en route air traffic control
system,” Keith Mordoff, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.
“We are anxious to see the system achieve full operating
capability as quickly as the facilities are comfortable with the
transition.”  Lockheed is replacing the computers, which the FAA calls
the “backbone” of the airspace system, that process radar data
and send information to controllers’ screens. The new system,
replacing one in use since 1967, will let 20 traffic-control
centers track 1,900 aircraft at one time rather than 1,100,
Lockheed has said.  “The current problems with ERAM are disconcerting,”
Scovel wrote in the letter to  House Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee  lawmakers. “Delays in implementing
ERAM will force FAA to sustain aging equipment longer than
planned and retrain controllers so they are familiar with both
the legacy and ERAM systems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hughes in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 