-- Facebook Friends in Search of Romance Drive App Growth
-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2010-12-23T21:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/facebook-friends-in-search-of-romance-drive-growth-in-dating-applications.html
With the rise of the Internet,
people began looking for love on websites such as  Match.com  and
EHarmony.com. With the growing popularity of social networks,
they’re turning to services like AreYouInterested.com.  The dating application, available on Facebook and  Apple
Inc .’s iPhone, lets users see beyond the personal details of
potential mates to their social circles, including friends and
family. AreYouInterested.com is adding more than 50,000 users a
day, according to New York-based parent  SNAP Interactive Inc .,
compared with the 20,000 new daily users Match.com reports.  AreYouInterested.com is now the largest Facebook dating
application, with more than 13 million average monthly users,
according to research firm AppData.com. Its popularity may cut
into the growth of Match.com, part of IAC/InterActiveCorp, and
EHarmony.com Inc., whose Facebook programs have 72,712 and 8,607
average monthly users respectively.  “Those traditional online dating companies don’t have a
large app presence like us,” Snap Chief Executive Officer Cliff Lerner said in an interview. “Our growth, as well as the growth
of a couple competitors, has come out of nowhere.”  Match.com has greater appeal for serious daters and a
stronger long-term business, though it may not be signing up as
many new users, said Gregory R. Blatt, CEO of IAC. Founded in
1995, the dating site collects pages of data from users to help
them find appropriate mates, with a large engineering team to
refine its site and algorithms.  “AreYouInterested is a flirty, fun little app,” Blatt
said in an interview. “They have a few people working in a
garage. We’ve got hundreds of engineers maximizing our business.
You need huge degrees of sophistication, huge amounts of data
behind it, and a huge community.”  AreYouInterested vs. Match.com  IAC’s Match business, which includes other dating websites
such as Chemistry.com and SeniorPeopleMeet.com, had revenue of
$292.4 million in the first nine months of the year, up 13
percent from a year earlier. Blatt ran the business until he
took over the CEO role this month from  Barry Diller , the
billionaire who built and controls New York-based IAC.  Snap, traded over-the-counter, had $3.9 million in revenue
in the first nine months, up 65 percent. Lerner and his brother,
natives of  Long Island ,  New York , founded the company with
$750,000 from friends and family. Cliff, 32, had worked as an
equities analyst at Lehman Brothers Inc; Darrell, 36, ran a
fantasy-sports company. Snap has 17 employees and, for the
record, operates from an office building in Midtown  Manhattan .  Digital Teddy Bears  Snap Interactive rose 30 cents, or 150 percent, to 50 cents
at 3:59 p.m. New York time in over-the-counter trading. The
shares have increased 233 percent this year. IAC fell 26 cents
to $29.71 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading and has gained 45
percent this year.  The brothers first started a dating website called
IamFreeTonight.com in 2006, and shifted their focus after the
initial success of their social-networking products.  AreYouInterested.com  is a software application, or app,
that users can load onto their  Facebook  page or iPhone with a
half-dozen mouse clicks. It lets you click through photos of
potential matches, and exchange messages or virtual gifts of
digital roses or teddy bears.  One reason dating apps on Facebook are popular is that they
give romance-seekers insight into potential partners through the
social-networking site’s existing information, according to
Darrell Lerner, Snap’s co-founder. People who meet on
AreYouInterested.com can become Facebook friends and learn about
each other before they ever agree to an actual date, he said.
They typically can see another person’s Facebook posts and
photos or videos of them and their friends.  ‘More Comfortable’  “A lot of people on dating websites don’t put up
legitimate information,” Darrell Lerner said in an interview.
“Because we’re an app on Facebook, every user is legitimate.
Before people go out with someone, they look them up on
Facebook, they add them as a friend, and they see who their
friends are. They get a better representation of the person, and
it makes them more comfortable.”  IAC’s dating sites have 1.8 million subscribers, who pay
$24.95 a month or $99 for a year. The websites had 6.5 million
unique visitors in November, up from 60 percent from a year
earlier, according to the market-research firm  ComScore Inc .
Operating profit for the group rose 25 percent over the first
nine months to $77.3 million.  “Never has Match experienced the kind of growth it’s
experienced in 2010,” Blatt said.  The company is working to introduce new Facebook apps that
will compete with AreYouInterested.com, he said.  More Mobile  On Facebook, other competitors also exceed Match.com in
number of users.  Zoosk.com , backed by Canaan Partners, Bessemer
Venture Partners, and ATA Ventures, has 6.1 million average
monthly users for its Facebook app, according to AppData.com.  Snap plans to expand the AreYouInterested.com brand beyond
Facebook, particularly on mobile devices, Cliff Lerner said.  “We believe there are big growth opportunities around
mobile as web usage continues to increase rapidly and there are
exciting opportunities around location-based features for dating
apps,” he said.  One online dater, a 26-year-old event planner in Manhattan,
said she had joined a couple dating websites before she recently
registered for AreYouInterested.com through the Facebook
application.  “For people in their 20s and 30s on Facebook, dating is a
big aspect of our lives, and a lot of people use Facebook as a
dating thing anyway,” said Adi, who declined to give her last
name for privacy reasons. “There’s something to be said for a
dating website that’s linked in with the most popular social
network. It makes it feel more real.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 