-- Fiat Wins Backing From Most Labor Unions at Its Mirafiori Auto Factory
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2010-12-23T18:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/fiat-wins-backing-from-most-labor-unions-at-its-mirafiori-auto-factory.html
Fiat SpA , Italy’s largest
manufacturer, won backing from all but one of its labor unions
for a 1 billion-euro ($1.3 billion) plan to revamp its Mirafiori
car plant in exchange for labor concessions.  All unions except for the Fiom-Cgil federation signed an
agreement today in Turin for the factory, Vincenzo Aragona, a
Fismic union official, said by phone. Fiom represents 10,000 of
Fiat’s 83,000 workers in Italy.  The Italian carmaker plans to build as many as 280,000 cars
and sports-utility vehicles a year for the Jeep and Alfa Romeo
brands as part of a joint venture with Chrysler Group LLC at its
biggest Italian plant. New Jeep and Alfa models will be ready by
the fourth quarter of 2012.  “We are ready to launch the investment program as rapidly
as possible,” Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne 
said in a statement. “This plant symbolizes Fiat and is the
custodian of Italy’s auto history and manufacturing pride.”  Marchionne said he would have preferred that the project
had the backing of all labor unions. Five out of six unions at
the plant agreed to add working shifts in exchange for wage
increases. “It’s a historical agreement,” Aragona said. A
workers’ referendum on the accord will be held next month, he
said.  “We now need to work on defining a collective agreement
specific to the joint venture that will enable workers to
transfer to the new Fiat-Chrysler enterprise,” Marchionne said
in the statement.  Marchionne is proposing to spend 20 billion euros in Italy
through 2014 to improve factories and vehicle development in
exchange for more labor flexibility and fewer strikes. Fiat
wants to increase plant utilization and productivity.  “Fiat has a huge productivity gap in Italy,” Mediobanca
SpA analyst  Massimo Vecchio  wrote in a note to clients Nov. 30.  Fiat, which acquired a 20 percent stake in Auburn Hills,
Michigan-based Chrysler Group LLC last year, has said it will
raise the holding to 25 percent by the first quarter of 2011 and
to 35 percent by the end of next year. Marchionne plans to take
the U.S. automaker public in the second half of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tommaso Ebhardt  in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net 
 Marco Bertacche  in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net 
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  