-- Canada's Flaherty Plans Additional Stimulus Measures
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-12-23T15:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/flaherty-says-canada-s-2011-budget-will-have-additional-stimulus-measures.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said next year’s budget will contain measures to help
bolster economic growth while adhering to the longer-term goal
of a balanced budget.  Extending worker training programs and “significant”
infrastructure spending will be part of Canada’s 2011 budget,
Flaherty said in a Dec. 21 interview with Bloomberg News.
Returning the  country’s finances  to balance, though, will still
“anchor” the fiscal plan, he said.  “I don’t see any need for any new big spending programs to
stimulate the economy but we’re also not going to have any
drastic cutbacks because we need economic growth,” Flaherty,
60, said at his office in Ottawa. “We’re going to have some
measures to promote jobs and  growth .”  The caution reflects concern the nation’s economy remains
vulnerable to U.S. weakness, particularly for manufacturers such
as Winnipeg, Manitoba-based bus maker  New Flyer Industries Inc. ,
which relies on Canada’s southern neighbor for most of its
exports and saw third-quarter sales fall 16 percent from a year
ago. A worsening of Europe’s sovereign debt crisis could also
trigger instability, Flaherty said.  The Canadian economy grew 0.2 percent in October, less than
the 0.3 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg  survey ,
Statistics Canada reported today. Factory output fell 0.6
percent during the month.  ‘Stubborn’ Jobless Rate  Canada’s  jobless rate  is “likely to be stubborn,”
according to Flaherty, who in February will enter his sixth year
on the job, making him the longest-serving finance chief among
the Group of Seven nations. The unemployment rate was 7.6
percent in November, compared with a low of 5.9 percent in
February 2008 before the recession began.  Flaherty has been scaling back plans to exit stimulus
measures since September, when he announced limits to proposed
payroll tax increases. Earlier this month, Flaherty’s
Conservative Party government extended the deadline for
infrastructure projects to qualify for temporary stimulus
funding. Yesterday, the International Monetary Fund said it
welcomed the moves, adding the country has “ample room to
respond if downside risks materialized.”  “I have to say no to most of the ideas that are brought
forward,” Flaherty said. “At the same time, we don’t want a
stalled economy.”  Retraining Programs  The government will emphasize programs that deal with
retraining workers who lost their jobs in the recession,
Flaherty said. Spending on roads and other public works will
also continue. “Infrastructure spending won’t dry up,” he
said. “It just won’t be the dramatic increase that we had.”  Flaherty is seeking to make Canada the first among G-7
countries to balance its budget, after warning in October that a
weak global recovery threatens to slow revenue.  Canada had a record C$55.6 billion ($54.8 billion) deficit
in the fiscal year that ended March 31. The shortfall will
narrow to C$45.4 billion in the current fiscal year, be cut in
half in two years and disappear altogether in 2015, according to
Flaherty’s  fiscal plan , as temporary stimulus projects expire,
the government implements cost controls and economic growth and
higher payroll taxes boost revenue.  Flaherty said there will be some shifting of spending to
finance new measures. Any new stimulus will be limited, he said.  “Some government programs will end, some sunset, so there
will be some reallocation of spending,” he said. “The anchor
here to the budget is ensuring we get to a balanced budget, that
we stay on track, that we get to where we want to be in the
medium-term.”  Any additional stimulus is likely to be “a fairly small
number and not enough to substantially affect GDP,” said Eric
Lascelles, chief economist and rates strategist at TD
Securities, a unit of Toronto-Dominion Bank.  Two ‘Major Concerns’  Flaherty said his two “major concerns” for the Canadian
economy are the sovereign debt crisis in Europe and the
possibility the U.S. recovery could falter.  “There is still good reason to worry about deficit and
debt issues in Europe, and instability arising out of that,”
Flaherty said. “We are not out of the woods with that European
situation yet.”  Canada’s economy will get a modest boost from the agreement
between President  Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans to
extend U.S. tax cuts through 2012, Flaherty said.  “There is a bit of good news out of the U.S. in the short-
term at least,” Flaherty said. The tax-cut extension will be
“stimulus to the U.S. economy and a modest stimulus to our
economy as well,” he said.  TD Securities’ Lascelles said the extended tax reductions,
as well as the U.S. Federal Reserve’s second round of asset
purchases, mean that Flaherty doesn’t need “stimulus to boost
Canada along in any major way.”  Asset Purchases  The weak U.S. recovery has prompted Canadian officials
including Flaherty and Harper to defend efforts by the Fed to
stimulate its economy through $600 billion of government debt
purchases through June. Other Group of 20 countries have
expressed concern about the effects that this program, known as
quantitative easing, could have on the value of U.S. dollar and
global capital flows.  The U.S. has few other options since Obama wouldn’t be able
to win legislative backing for further fiscal stimulus measures,
Flaherty said.  “If the Obama administration could do more fiscal
stimulus; that is, get it through Congress, I think they would,
and do less of what the Fed is doing in the United States,”
Flaherty said. “But they don’t have much choice because they
probably can’t get stimulus measures through the U.S.
Congress.”  Canada’s government will use regulation, if needed, to
thwart any asset bubbles that may emerge if the Bank of Canada
is forced to maintain low interest rates, he said. Flaherty has
issued public warnings to Canadians about the dangers of taking
on too much debt, while encouraging lenders to be prudent.  The ratio of household debt to disposable income in Canada
was 1.48 in the third quarter according to Statistics Canada,
exceeding the U.S. level of 1.47.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  