-- Flaherty Says Banks Are Responsible for Reining in Lending as Debt Soars
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-12-23T06:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/flaherty-says-banks-are-responsible-for-reining-in-lending-as-debt-soars.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  says it’s up to commercial banks -- not government --
to rein in lending as household debt soars, countering comments
by  Toronto-Dominion Bank  Chief Executive Officer  Edmund Clark .  “The primary responsibility for prudence in lending
practices rests with the financial institutions,” Flaherty said
in a Dec. 21 interview in Ottawa. “People also need to take
responsibility for what they do and exercise common sense in
terms of taking on debt.”  Clark said in a Globe and Mail interview published Dec. 16
that cutting Canada’s excessive household debt is a matter for
the government rather than lenders, and would be best tackled
through tighter rules on mortgages. No bank wants to lead the
way in imposing stricter borrowing conditions for fear of losing
customers to rivals, Clark, 63, told the newspaper.  Mohammed Nakhooda, a Toronto-Dominion spokesman, declined
to comment yesterday.  “Banks are responsible for their own business practices
and what I find odd from time to time is when a bank executive
asks me to tighten lending rules,” Flaherty said. “It seems to
me that’s the primary responsibility of the financial
institutions and not the government.”  Household debt has risen in Canada after interest rates
fell close to record lows, prompting consumers to take on bigger
mortgages, car loans and credit-card balances. Canada’s debt
levels topped the U.S. for the first time in 12 years in the
third quarter.  Mortgage Rates  Flaherty, 60, said he expects interest rates to “go up
over time,” which will bring higher mortgage costs.  “People have to make sure they can afford, in particular,
their mortgage payments when interest rates rise,” Flaherty
said.  The government would tighten mortgage-market rules again if
it had to, Flaherty said. Measures to restrain lending taken
earlier this year included changes for government-backed
mortgages that forced buyers to meet standards for five-year,
fixed-rate mortgages even if they opt for variable rates. Limits
on refinancing were made stricter and down payment rules were
tightened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;  Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
5733 or  dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  