-- For-Profit Nursing Homes More Likely to Overbill Medicare, U.S. Study Says
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-12-23T21:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/for-profit-nursing-homes-more-likely-to-overbill-medicare-u-s-study-says.html
For-profit nursing home companies
led by  Kindred Healthcare Inc . and  Sun Healthcare Group Inc . are
likelier than non-profit counterparts to overbill Medicare for
the costliest services, according to a U.S. government report.  Medicare should investigate instances in which companies
keep patients longer, charge more for care and classify clients
for more extensive and costly services than needed, the  study 
released today by the inspector general found.  The findings, based on audits of nursing-home billings from
2006 to 2008, “raise concerns about the potentially
inappropriate use of higher-paying” billing codes, said the
report by the Health and Human Services Department’s  Office of
Inspector General . It recommends that Medicare, the U.S. health
insurance program for the elderly and disabled, consider
changing its payment method for nursing home services.  The program covers as much as 100 days of nursing-home
services for beneficiaries who require skilled care or
rehabilitation following a hospitalization of at least three
consecutive days. Care can be provided in a hospital or free-
standing facility.  Medicare plans to target an undisclosed list of nursing
homes with “questionable” billing practices, according to the
report. The program specifically is examining “special-nursing
facilities” for patients recovering from an injury or who are
disabled.  Congressional Criticism  California Representative Pete Stark, the ranking Democrat
on the House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, has been
critical of the reimbursements that special nursing facilities
get from Medicare. Medicare pays too much for the therapy
services that the companies were billing more for, and too
little for other services, his Stark’s spokesman, Brian Cook,
said in an e-mail.  Stark unsuccessfully attempted to change the payments to
nursing facilities in the health-care law signed by President  Barack Obama  in March.  Kindred fell 36 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $18.99 at 4:04
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Sun
Healthcare rose 18 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $12.75.  The report didn’t mention any specific companies. Susan Moss, vice president of communications with Louisville,
Kentucky-based Kindred, the largest publicly traded U.S. company
by number of beds, didn’t respond to a telephone message
requesting comment. Bernadette Bell, a spokeswoman for  Irvine ,
California-based Sun Healthcare, the second-largest by beds,
also didn’t respond to a telephone message.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 