-- For-Profit Colleges Double Spending, Hire Ex-Congressmen to Beat Aid Rules
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-12-23T17:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/for-profit-colleges-double-spending-hire-ex-congressmen-to-beat-aid-rules.html
For-profit colleges more than
doubled spending on lobbying and hired six former members of the
U.S. Congress this year to fight regulations that threaten the
industry.  Ten education companies and their trade association spent
$3.8 million on lobbying in the first nine months of 2010, up
from $1.5 million in the comparable period last year, according
to reports filed with Congress.  For-profit colleges are resisting a U.S. Department of
Education proposal to restrict funding and objecting to a law
that limits their revenue from government sources. The proposed
restriction, called “gainful employment,” would tie
eligibility for federal student-aid programs to graduates’
incomes and loan repayment rates.  “The stakes are extremely high,” said  Harris Miller ,
president and chief executive officer of the  Association of
Private Sector Colleges & Universities , the Washington-based
trade group trying to blunt the regulations. “It’s the biggest
fight I’ve been in since coming to the industry.”  Miller’s group spent $630,000 on lobbying in the first nine
months of 2010, more than three times the $167,692 total a year
earlier, according to filings with the Senate and House.
 Education Management Corp.  spent $410,000 on lobbying in the
first nine months, up eightfold from $50,000 a year earlier.
That company was 39 percent owned by New York-based Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. as of Nov. 5, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Black Caucus  Pittsburgh-based Education Management hired former U.S.
Representatives  Tom Loeffler , a Texas Republican, and  William Gray , a Pennsylvania Democrat, according to the filings. Gray
belonged to the Congressional Black Caucus, whose members signed
letters to the Education Department this year, saying the
gainful-employment rule would hurt minority students.  “What they bring is a Rolodex,” said  Craig Holman  of
 Public Citizen , a Washington-based advocacy group that calls for
curbs on lobbying. “They worked with members who are still
there, who know them well and know their senior staff. When they
make a phone call to ask for a visit, they get it.”  Career Education Corp ., based in Hoffman Estates, Illinois,
spent $540,000 from January through September, compared with
$210,000 in the same period in 2009, and hired former
Connecticut Democratic Representative  Toby Moffett .  Kaplan’s Lobbying  Washington Post Co ., owner of the Kaplan education
business, spent $470,000 in the first nine months, compared with
$120,000 a year earlier, according to filings, and hired former
California Democratic Representative  Vic Fazio . Fazio is a
senior adviser at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, a law firm
based in Washington. Post Chairman and CEO  Donald Graham  has
also lobbied against Education Department regulations.  “There’s been considerable misinformation generated about
for-profit colleges in recent months, and it’s important that
lawmakers understand that Kaplan is in the business of helping
people succeed,”  Rima Calderon , a Kaplan spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail. “We have retained people to help us tell that story,
and we hope lawmakers are listening.”  Jeff Leshay, a spokesman for Career Education, and
Jacquelyn Muller, a spokeswoman for Education Management, didn’t
return calls seeking comment.  Campaign Contributions  For-profit colleges have also contributed to political
campaigns. Two for-profit colleges were among the 14 biggest
donors to the re-election effort of  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican who now will be the speaker of the House, according
to the  Center for Responsive Politics , a Washington-based
research group. Employees of  Corinthian Colleges Inc ., based in
Santa Ana, California, and  Apollo Group Inc.,  owner of the
University of Phoenix, gave $18,250 and $14,000 respectively,
according to the center.  Representative  John Kline , the Minnesota Republican who
will take over leadership of the House Education and Labor
Committee next month, received $56,500 from educators and their
families, his fourth-biggest source of campaign contributions
during his re-election campaign, according to the center.  Kline said Dec. 16 that he would try to block the Education
Department’s gainful-employment proposal, saying he preferred
greater disclosure of costs, debt and quality by colleges.  Biggest Spender  The biggest spender on lobbying among publicly traded
colleges in the first nine months was Corinthian Colleges, which
hired  Richard Gephardt , a Missouri Democrat and the former House
majority leader. Corinthian spent $570,000, about twice the
company’s lobbying bill a year earlier, according to filings. A
telephone call to Gephardt’s office seeking comment on Dec. 21
wasn’t returned.  “The Department of Education and numerous members of
Congress have been looking at significant changes that would
affect our organization and our students,” said Kent Jenkins, a
Corinthian spokesman, in an e-mail yesterday. “We added
additional resources to address these issues.”  Capella Education Co ., based in Minneapolis, spent $100,000
on lobbying in the first nine months, five times as much as in
the same period last year, and hired former Minnesota Republican
Representative  Vin Weber , now managing partner of Clark &
Weinstock, a lobbying firm in Washington.  Weber, who is also a board member at  ITT Educational
Services Inc ., a for-profit education company based in Carmel,
Indiana, didn’t return a call to his office.  Rule Delays  The Education Department delayed issuing the gainful-
employment rule until early next year after receiving a record
90,000 comments, many from staff and students at for-profit
colleges. The rule is scheduled to go into effect in 2012.  Education companies are permitted by law to get as much as
90 percent of their revenue from federal student aid, and some
are close to the limit. The companies want to change the law or
extend an exemption on some revenue that currently expires in
2011.  Apollo Group, based in Phoenix, and Corinthian Colleges
have each said that close to 90 percent of their revenue comes
from government grants and loans, and that they’re in danger of
violating the rule next year. Apollo, the biggest U.S. education
company, spent $340,000 on lobbying in the first nine months of
2010, down from $440,000 a year earlier. Chad Christian, a
company spokesman, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Losing Access  Colleges that violate the 90/10 rule two years in a row can
lose their access to government student aid. Under the current
rules, for-profit colleges got $30.2 billion in government
student grants and loans in 2009-2010.  An  index  of 13 for-profit college companies fell less than
1 percent today, as of 12:36 p.m. New York time. The index has
lost 26 percent this year as the Education Department, the
Government Accountability Office and Congressional Democrats
said the industry was preying on students. Iowa Democratic
Senator  Tom Harkin , chairman of the Senate education committee,
released a report Dec. 9 saying the colleges recruit military-
service members and disabled veterans with sales pitches that
misrepresent program costs and results.  For-profit colleges also hired three former U.S. lawmakers
last year, according to Senate and House filings.  DeVry Inc .,
based in Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois, hired Bob Carr, a Michigan
Democrat; and San Diego-based  Bridgepoint Education  Inc. hired
 Al Wynn , a Maryland Democrat who belonged to the Congressional
Black Caucus, and  Tim Hutchinson , an Arkansas Republican.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  