-- France's AAA Grade Affirmed by S&P on Bet Budget Gap Will Fall
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2010-12-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/france-s-credit-ratings-affirmed-by-standard-poor-s-outlook-is-stable.html
France’s standing as one of the
world’s safest borrowers was affirmed by Standard & Poor’s,
reflecting confidence that the euro-area’s second-largest
economy will rein in its budget deficit.  At the end of a year in which rating companies downgraded
the debt of European nations from Spain to Ireland, New York-
based S&P said yesterday that France deserves a AAA sovereign
credit rating because of the “wealth and depth” of its economy
and the view that President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s government will
consolidate its budget gap.  The announcement may encourage investors to buy French debt
after analysts this week speculated the euro-area’s sovereign
debt crisis might cost France its top grade. Fitch Ratings
yesterday lowered Portugal’s credit ranking by one level and
separately said the turmoil in Europe reflects investor concern
about the euro’s “viability.”  “It may placate the market in the near term, make it feel
a little bit better, but in the longer term, everyone’s a little
suspect that Europe still has problems and it’s going to be
difficult for them to overcome,” said  Richard Schlanger , who
helps invest $20 billion in fixed-income securities as vice
president at Pioneer Investments in Boston.  The cost of insuring French government debt rose to a
record this week, having tripled this year. The country’s credit
default swaps are now more expensive than those of lower-rated
securities from the Czech Republic and Chile, according to data
provider CMA.  Vulnerable  France’s top credit rating was vulnerable to a rethink by
the credit rating companies because of its budget deficit and
because its banks are the biggest holders of debt issued by so-
called peripheral countries, analysts said before yesterday’s
announcement.  In a riposte to those concerns, S&P analysts including
Madrid-based  Marko Mrsnik  said in their report that Sarkozy’s
government will meet its goal of reducing its general deficit to
3 percent of gross domestic product in 2013 even if that means
adopting extra measures.  The gap will decline to just below 6.2 percent in 2011, the
analysts said in their report, compared with 7.7 percent this
year and the government’s projection of 6 percent. Economic
growth will be about 1.7 percent next year, they forecast, below
the government’s 2 percent estimate.  Further Measures  “The government will likely adopt further deficit and
debt-reduction measures, despite what we view as risks of
political maneuvering in the wake of the 2012 presidential and
general elections,” the S&P analysts said. “If economic growth
is more in line with our forecasts than those of the government,
we believe that the government would likely take additional
fiscal measures to achieve its targets in order to stabilize the
government debt burden.”  Failure to regain order of its  budget  would mean France’s
top rating would come under “downward pressure,” it added.  “S&P is giving Sarkozy a little bit of the benefit of the
doubt here” after a recent revamp to the country’s pension
program suggests “France can be reformed after all,” said
 Jacob Funk Kirkegaard , a research fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in Washington.  France this week scaled back its debt-sale plans for 2011
as buybacks and improved cash management reduce financing needs,
the nation’s debt management office said. The government will
sell 184 billion euros in medium- and long-term debt next year
instead of the 186 billion euros planned in September, Agence
France Tresor said Dec. 21. That compares with the 188 billion
euros of bonds France issued in 2010.  Portugal Concern  The vote of confidence in France came hours after Fitch
cited concern about the “financing environment” for Portugal’s
government and banks as well as the economic outlook as it cut
the nation’s long-term foreign and local currency issuer default
rating to A+, the fifth-highest level, from AA-. The outlook is
negative.  The company said in a separate report yesterday that while
the “euro zone’s underlying credit fundamentals are stronger
than current levels of risk pricing indicate, Fitch believes
that the crisis is systemic in as much as it reflects concerns
about the viability of the euro as well as country-specific
vulnerabilities.”  Confidence in public finances and banks will stay
“fragile” and “credit profiles will deteriorate further”
until economic recoveries are secure, it said.  Spain Ratings  Moody’s Investors Service said Dec. 15 it may lower Spain’s
rating, citing “substantial funding requirements,” and slashed
Ireland’s rating by five levels on Dec. 17. S&P is reviewing its
assessments of Ireland, Portugal and Greece.  Such warnings were frequent in 2010 as the debt crisis
engulfed first Greece and then Ireland, forcing policy makers to
issue bailouts and search for policies to protect the euro-area
from contagion. Having established a rescue fund of about $1
trillion in size in May, European Union leaders agreed last week
to amend the bloc’s treaties to create a permanent debt-crisis
mechanism in 2013.  “I don’t think this situation is anywhere near resolution
as far as the market is concerned,” said Schlanger. “We’re
going to flip the calendar, turn the page, start a new year and
begin to focus on sovereign risk once again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  