-- FTC’s New Code-Cracker Says Web Marketers Don’t Need Tracking
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2010-12-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/ftc-s-code-cracking-privacy-sleuth-says-web-marketers-don-t-need-tracking.html
Internet marketers may be able to
persuade consumers to provide better data about themselves
voluntarily than companies collect by tracking Web behavior, the
 Federal Trade Commission ’s new technology chief says.  Edward Felten , known for cracking the music industry’s
digital-copyright protection code, was hired by FTC Chairman
 Jonathan Leibowitz  to help determine how user privacy can be
protected in the $26 billion online advertising industry, which
collects Web-surfing habits to deliver personalized ads.  Felten, 47, a professor of computer science and public
affairs at Princeton University in Princeton, New Jersey, will
be the agency’s first chief technology officer. He starts full-
time Jan. 1.  If advertisers ask consumers what they want directly,
“that information may be more accurate than what the company
has deduced about the user,” Felten said in an interview at the
FTC’s Washington office. “And the user may have a higher
comfort level deciding what information to provide rather than
worrying about what inferences might be made from what they’ve
gathered.”  Growth of the online advertising industry, led by companies
such as  Microsoft Corp. , Google Inc.,  Yahoo! Inc.  and  AOL Inc. ,
is at stake as advocacy groups and regulators question how
information about the online behavior of consumers is collected,
analyzed and distributed.  ‘Feasible Options’  A privacy report issued by the FTC on Dec. 1 urged creating
a do-not-track option. It would let consumers block their
browsing habits from marketers.  Felten is studying the workings of such blocking
mechanisms, including a tracking-protection option offered in
Microsoft’s Explorer 9 browser released Dec. 7 and Google’s
advertising-preferences manager. A group of researchers at
Stanford University in Palo Alto, California, also has developed
a way for browsers to notify websites that a visitor doesn’t
want information collected.  “These are feasible options,” Felten said. “The question
of what is best is something we are still discussing. I don’t
get the sense the FTC is in a rush to mandate a unified
system.”  Felten, who reports directly to FTC Chairman Leibowitz, won
a challenge in 2001 from the music industry’s Secure Digital
Music Initiative Foundation, which asked researchers to test the
“digital watermarks” that secured music files to discourage
copying and distribution of pirated material.  Code-Cracker  The watermarks are inaudible messages hidden in music that
provide copyright information to MP3 players and recorders. The
devices won’t copy music with the security code.  Felten cracked the code, and when he said he would make the
results public, the foundation threatened to sue him. His
findings were eventually published under an agreement with the
foundation, Felten said. He also discovered security flaws in
electronic voting machines.  Felten’s expertise was welcomed by  Jeff Chester , executive
director of the Washington-based  Center for Digital Democracy ,
an advocacy group for online consumer protection.  “For years, online marketers have tried to pull the wool
over the eyes of the FTC,” Chester said in an interview. “Now
the FTC has a one-person truth squad who understands the techno-
babble.”  Internet tracking uses strings of text called cookies that
a website stores on the user’s computer hard drive. The cookie
can collect information including the person’s unique computer-
identification number, terms used for searches and names of
websites visited. The data can be combined with demographic and
purchasing information to create profiles of people that are
sold to businesses to target ads for specific products and
services.  ‘Nothing Sinister’  Marketers say they can do a better job of delivering
relevant advertisements if they know the individual’s interests.  Reduced consumer trust might hamper the industry’s growth,
whose revenue is forecast to increase 74 percent to $40 billion
by 2015 from $23 billion in 2009, according to Brian Wieser,
director of industry analysis at Magna Global, a unit of
 Interpublic Group of Cos. , a New York-based owner of advertising
agencies.  “Marketers are already working overtime to approach
consumers directly,” said Stuart Ingis, a partner at Venable
LLP in Washington, which is advising a coalition that represents
more than 5,000 advertisers led by the  Direct Marketing
Association  and the  American Association of Advertising
Agencies .  “Being able to identify people’s interests efficiently
through the Web and serve them ads accordingly benefits
consumers and is crucial to the development of the Internet,”
Ingis said in an interview. “There is nothing sinister about
it.”  Closer Look  The online advertising coalition introduced a self-
regulating initiative in October to let consumers opt out of
being tracked across the Internet by clicking on an icon.  “There are alternatives between tracking and a dumbing
down” that results in the same ads being seen by everyone,
according to Felten. Marketing based on an individual’s
interests can be valuable to both consumers and companies if
done in ways that make people comfortable, he said.  The administrations of Bill Clinton and George W. Bush
didn’t place constraints on Internet data collection in order to
encourage development of the online economy. Now regulators and
lawmakers are taking a closer look at what rules are needed.  The Commerce Department issued a report Dec. 16 urging Web
companies to work with the government and consumer groups to
craft privacy measures to protect online users.  Felten, who says he likes to run and cook Mexican food in
his spare time, is taking a leave of absence from Princeton to
join the FTC. He also will advise the agency on upgrading its
own technology knowhow as well as its cybersecurity activity and
competition reviews of technology companies.  He’ll be spending less time writing his blog,  Freedom to
Tinker , Felten said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sara Forden  in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  