-- Prince Braves Tire Slashing to Revive Family’s Elbe Vineyards
-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2010-12-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/german-prince-braves-tire-slashing-to-save-family-s-elbe-valley-vineyards.html
The communists still ruled East
Germany, pro-democracy protesters were on the march and the wine
was watery back in 1989, when I first visited Saxony’s vineyards
in the Elbe valley near the medieval city of Meissen.  Two decades later, a prince who braved local resistance to
buy back a family estate seized after World War II is leading a
wine-making revival in  the region , imposing tougher quality-
control standards than those set by  German wine law . Liberated
from Leninist five-year plans, Saxony’s vineyards have almost
doubled to 432 hectares (1,067 acres) and are now producing wine
that is winning fans as far afield as China.  “Everything was gray when I arrived here in 1990,” said
Georg Prince zur Lippe, whose aristocratic family was one of the
richest in Saxony until it was expelled by the Red Army in 1945.  “People weren’t happy to see me and I got anonymous
threats on the phone,” Lippe said, sipping an espresso in his
restaurant. “The callers said: ‘we got rid of our princes once,
and we’ll do it again.’ My car tires were regularly slashed.”  From 14 hectares, Lippe has expanded his  Weingut Schloss
Proschwitz  -- or Proschwitz Palace Winery -- to almost 150
hectares, encompassing his land on the red granite Elbe cliffs
about 150 kilometers (93 miles) south of Berlin, and some
vineyards in Weimar. The winery, with views of Meissen’s
fairytale gothic towers, has a hotel, restaurant and shop. The
family’s 18th-century palace hosts conferences and weddings.  Exclusive Club  Lippe, 53, was last month elected as the first head of the
newly formed Saxony-Saale-Unstrut branch of the Association of
German Quality and Praedikat Wine Estates, or  VDP winemakers ,
which has a nationwide membership of about 200. Four eastern
German winemakers gained admission to this exclusive club.  Members  must  reduce yields to improve wine quality and
submit to regular inspections.  Steffen Christmann , the VDP’s
president, said he’s surprised at how quickly the top estates in
eastern Germany have improved quality.  “The basic parameters in the East German era were
extremely low,” Christmann said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Since reunification, the quality progress made by
growers in Germany’s eastern wine regions has been enormous.”  The Prince’s wines have been served on flights operated by
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG  and Asia is their fastest-growing market,
with China, Japan, Taiwan and Singapore among the biggest
customers, Lippe said. The estate employs 95 people and produces
about 500,000 bottles a year, ranging in price from 8.50 euros
($11.35) to 22 euros.  Watery Wine  It’s a world transformed from the Meissen I visited in
October 1989, the day after communist leader  Erich Honecker 
resigned as the East German state imploded. Back then, the city
-- famous for its fine white porcelain -- was crumbling. Wine
wasn’t for sale because it was used for barter at a time when
hard currency was in short supply.  I did get a glass of some tart, thin wine when I visited
the communist functionary running the state’s collective winery.
Seated at his desk under a photo of Honecker, he refused to
discuss politics and drove me for a vineyard tour in a
sputtering  Wartburg car .  There were no private vintners under East Germany’s command
economy. Grape growers were forced to hand over their harvest to
the collective farm.  “We had nothing in the beginning; we were basically a
garage winery,” Peter Bohn, Schloss Proschwitz’s director of
marketing, said in an interview at the restored, ochre-painted
18th-century  farmhouse complex  housing the estate’s cellars.  Top Grauburgunder  Thirteen grape varieties are grown on the estate. White
wines dominate and grauburgunder (pinot gris) comprises the
biggest proportion of vines -- almost 18 percent. Spaetburgunder
(pinot noir) vines for red wine account for over 7 percent.  “The grauburgunder and spaetburgunder at Proschwitz are
top wines that compete with anything produced in Germany,”
Norbert Pobbig, author of an annual  guide  to Berlin’s wine bars,
restaurants and wine shops, said in an interview.  A former management consultant at Roland Berger & Partners
GmbH, Lippe says he understands why he wasn’t welcomed when he
returned. Locals feared they would lose their homes, even though
the German government didn’t return properties seized under
orders of Soviet leader  Josef Stalin  between 1945 and 1949 to
former owners like Lippe.  “But after I wrote a letter for a collective farm boss,
saying we wouldn’t try to reclaim his house so he could get a
bank loan, things changed,” Lippe said. “Suddenly, there were
no more threats. Over the years a total of 800 people have come
forward to sell us small parcels of land that was once ours.”  None of the family’s former properties were returned by the
German state. “We lost 100 percent after the war and we didn’t
get a penny back,” he said. “I’ve financed everything here by
taking out millions of euros in loans, but it’s all worth it.
This is my home.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leon Mangasarian  in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net  