-- Ghana Says Probe of Kosmos May Have Jeopardized Oil Investment
-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 2010-12-23T12:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/ghana-says-probe-of-kosmos-may-have-jeopardized-oil-investment.html
Ghana  ended its investigation of
Dallas-based Kosmos Energy LLC because it found no evidence
against the company and a continued probe may have curbed
investment in the oil industry, Energy Minister  Joe Oteng-Adjei 
said.  “What the investigations show is that there may not be
anything against Kosmos as of now,” Oteng-Adjei said yesterday
in an  interview  broadcast on Accra-based Joy FM radio. If the
probe continued, “they may not get the right quantity of money
to support us in the oil production.”  Kosmos announced Dec. 20 that it had resolved “several
issues” with Ghana’s government, including the criminal
investigation, an environmental probe into Kosmos’s spillage of
drilling mud, and claims by the authorities that Kosmos’s
decision to share data about the Jubilee oilfield with companies
including Exxon Mobil Corp. was illegal.  Oteng-Adjei said the settlement does not bar future
investigations of Kosmos, which is backed by private equity
firms Warburg Pincus and  Blackstone Group LP .  “It is better to release them to continue the work, but if
tomorrow we happen to have anything that breaks our laws then we
reserve the right to apply the laws of the country,” he said.  Ghana’s attorney general, Betty Mould-Iddrisu, had been
investigating contracts signed by Kosmos, the company’s Ghanaian
partner EO Group, and Ghana’s previous government headed by
President  John Kufuor . The U.S. Justice Department closed a
corruption probe into Kosmos’s activities in Ghana May 12
without filing charges.  Blocked Sale  Ghana blocked Kosmos’s effort this year to sell its 23.5
percent share in Jubilee and other assets to Exxon Mobil for $4
billion. Kosmos rejected a $5 billion offer for the stake from
state-owned Ghana National Petroleum Corp. and China’s  CNOOC
Ltd. , the Wall Street Journal reported Nov. 2.  Production at Jubilee, which holds an estimated 800 million
barrels of crude, began Dec. 15. Other shareholders include
 Tullow Oil Plc ,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp.,  GNPC, and Sabre Oil
and Gas.  “With first oil from the Jubilee Field flowing and these
issues behind us, the government, GNPC and Kosmos have
reaffirmed their positive and forward-looking relationship,”
said  Brian Maxted , Kosmos’s chief operating officer, in the
statement on Dec. 20. “We anticipate significant on-going
capital investment in Ghana.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason McLure  in Accra on 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 