-- Greek Health System Betrays Crippled Domestic Economy
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2010-12-23T07:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/greek-health-system-betrays-crippled-economy-as-medical-expenses-go-unpaid.html
To find out what’s gone wrong with
the Greek economy, just look at the health-care system,
according to a top medic at the country’s largest hospital.  “It’s the usual problems of Greece: bureaucracy,
corruption and so on,” said Ioannis Datseris, director of
nuclear medicine at  Evangelismos Hospital  in Athens and vice
president of a group of doctors, medical schools and unions
advising the government. “The hospitals and the health service
are part of this political system.”  When Greece accepted its 110 billion-euro ($145 billion)
bailout package from the European Union and International
Monetary Fund in May, one of the conditions was to reform a
dysfunctional public health system, along with addressing losses
at state-owned companies and spending on pensions. Hospitals and
doctors ran up  5.4 billion euros  of unpaid bills to suppliers
between 2007 and 2009, figures from the government show.  The IMF reiterated  last week  that the country needs to
overhaul accounting controls, install computers at hospitals to
monitor spending, and centralize the system for buying drugs and
equipment to negotiate lower prices. It also urged the use of
electronic prescriptions to avoid misuse.  In 2007,  Greece spent 2.4 percent  of gross domestic product
on pharmaceuticals, the highest of all countries in the Paris-
based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The
group currently has 34 members.  Cutting Waste  “If we can make the management system better, we’re going
to reduce costs for pharmaceuticals and public procurement,”
Charalambos Economou, scientific director at the  Andreas
Papandreou Institute of Strategic and Development Studies  in
Athens, said yesterday. “We have to be successful. If we are
not successful, the system is going to be corrupted.”  The Greek government aims to implement the measures next
year and said they will save the equivalent of 0.5 percent of
GDP, according to a  Nov. 22 letter  to the EU.  Greece’s parliament approved the 2011 budget early today by
a vote of 156 to 142. Measures include 14 billion euros of cost
reductions, with 2.1 billion euros coming from hospital spending
to lower a health bill that amounts to more than 13 billion
euros, or about 5 percent of GDP. The government said Dec. 8 it
planned to issue more than 5 billion euros of non-interest
paying bonds to hospital suppliers owed money from 2007 to 2009.  “At the end of 2012, the public health-care system will be
effective, useful to citizens, accessible to all, adjusted and
not wasteful,” Health Minister  Andreas Loverdos  told parliament
on Dec. 20 during a debate on next year’s budget.  Pensions, Now Health  Loverdos was unavailable to comment for this story because
of his schedule, according to the Health Ministry. The 54-year-
old was appointed to the post on Sept. 7 by Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  after implementing cuts to pension payments
during his time as labor minister.  Datseris, also 54, said suppliers, doctors and hospital
administrators have profited from a system that fails to control
costs for supplies and drugs. “It’s a network of bureaucracy
and corruption,” he said in a Dec. 17 interview.  Many doctors supplement their income with payments from
patients, known as “fakelaki,” Greek for small envelopes,
containing cash for prompt services. Doctors and administrators
also benefit from kickbacks from suppliers to buy their products
rather than searching for the best price on the open market.  ‘Cost of Business’  Robert John Dougall, the former vice president of market
development at DePuy International, admitted in April to joining
a 4.5 million-pound ($7 million) scheme to pay Greek doctors and
health officials through Medec SA, a Greek distributor of the
company’s orthopedic products. DePuy is part of New Brunswick,
New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson , the world’s biggest maker of
health-care products.  Dougall described the payments as the “cost of doing
business in Greece,” according to documents from the England
and Wales Court of Appeal.  Now 45, Dougall pleaded guilty to paying bribes to medical
professionals working in the Greek public health-care system
from February 2002 through December 2005, according to the court
documents. He was sentenced in London to 12 months in prison,
later suspended, according to the fraud office.  “Those responsible for procurement of medical supplies
were provided with cash or other incentives to award the
relevant contract to a particular supplier,”  the court
documents said.  “The practice was endemic, DePuy was not the
only company involved in this corruption.”  ‘Incentive Payments’  Some of the money was used to make “incentive payments”
to persuade Greek surgeons to use DePuy’s products, according to
the  U.K. Serious Fraud Office .  The Greek government would try to curb incentives by
imposing price reductions on companies, though they were “not
implemented effectively,” according to the court documents.  Greek  10-year bonds  currently yield 11.9 percent, more than
anywhere else in the euro region and almost four times
equivalent German securities. For 2009, Greece’s budget deficit
was revised to a record 15.4 percent of GDP.  The government bonds for suppliers will be issued by the
end of the year pending approval from government regulators.
 National Bank of Greece SA  will assist with the bond issue, the
Health Ministry in Athens said.  The debt resulted from hospital managers failing to control
costs, fraudulent practices and shortfalls in various social
security funds that reimburse hospitals, Nicolaos Polyzos, the
Greek Health Ministry’s general secretary, said in a Nov. 3
interview.  ‘Getting Worse’  In addition, the government will transfer 1.15 billion
euros to cover remittances owed to hospitals from various Greek
social security funds in 2010, according to a  Dec. 8  statement
on the Health Ministry’s website.  Health suppliers remain skeptical about the government’s
plans to repay them and reform hospital management.  “Overall our impression is that the situation is getting
worse,” John Wilkinson, chief executive officer of the
Brussels-based  European Trade Association for Medical Technology ,
said by telephone from Brussels. “The bonds are promissory
notes to pay the debts sometime in the future and there’s a high
degree of uncertainty in terms of conditions associated with
those bonds and the security of them.”  Panayotis Stravolaimos, chairman of the  Association of
Greek Sciences and Health Suppliers , said the zero-interest
bonds in lieu of payment mean further losses for members, which
are mostly small- and medium-sized companies. Suppliers have
already paid sales and income taxes on the unpaid hospital bills,
he said.  “Our position is that the country needs an effective and
transparent supply system,” he said in a Dec. 7 e-mail.  Outside Help  To avoid debt from building up again, the IMF and the EU
said Greece should use “independent international experts” to
improve drug purchasing and hospital management.  At Evangelismos, Greece’s oldest hospital, Datseris said
new provisions to allow doctors to set up private practices in
public hospitals would allow them to increase their income and
reduce corruption at the same time.  “I hesitate to say that I’m optimistic, but we’ve reached
the bottom and we have to do something,” Datseris said. “The
thing in Greece isn’t to pass a law in parliament, but the
implementation of it. It’s not the act, it’s the fact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Stoukas  in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net . 