-- Iberdrola, Endesa Face Higher Costs, Lending as Spain Curbs Power Bills
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2010-12-23T15:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/iberdrola-endesa-face-higher-costs-lending-as-spain-curbs-power-bills.html
Iberdrola SA ,  Endesa SA  and  Gas
Natural SDG SA  face higher costs and increased borrowing as the
Spanish government seeks to contain consumer power bills.  Spanish utilities will shoulder 1.3 billion euros ($1.7
billion) of additional costs over the next three years and 4
billion euros of extra borrowing to subsidize consumers, the
Spanish Industry Ministry said in a press release today.  Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  is trying to
contain power bills as oil prices rise and the economy struggles
to shake off a recession that began almost three years ago.
After cutting subsidies for wind and solar companies, he’s
forcing the country’s biggest utilities to share the burden.  The government is increasing consumer subsidies financed by
the power companies even after it failed to sell bonds that
would take existing debt off the books of utilities. Today’s
decision increases the ceiling for the so-called tariff deficit
this year to 5.5 billion euros. The government failed to meet
its own legal limit of 3 billion euros.  Endesa is owed more than 7 billion euros, or about half of
the accumulated tariff deficit and Iberdrola, Spain’s largest
power company, is due to receive more than 3.7 billion euros,
Moody’s Investors Service has said.  Among new costs and fees approved today by the Spanish
government, power companies face a charge of 50 euro cents per
megawatt-hour for electricity transmission, which will raise 453
million euros over the next three years. They also will pay 670
million euros for increases in energy efficiency and 150 million
to extend a price freeze for 5 million of the poorest families.  Enel SpA , the Italian  owner  of Endesa, was put under review
for a possible  downgrade  last week by Moody’s after a surge in
the cost of finance for the Spanish government led it to halt
the start of 17.6 billion-euro program of bond sales that would
have repaid utilities.  The program will be expanded to 21.6 billion euros
following today’s decision, a spokesman for the Industry
Ministry said. That will add to 192 billion euros of debt the
government must sell next year to meet sovereign bond
redemptions and finance its public budget deficit.  Iberdrola  shares  fell for the first time this week and
traded down 0.7 percent at 5.90 euros as of 4:17 p.m. in Madrid.
Enel shares lost 0.1 percent to 3.85 euros in Milan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  