-- Oil Prices Will Reach $100 a Barrel, Libya's National Oil Chairman Says
-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2010-12-23T16:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/libya-s-ghanem-expects-oil-to-rise-100-a-barrel-oapec-nations-gather.html
Oil prices will climb to $100 a
barrel,  Shokri Ghanem , chairman of Libya’s National Oil Corp.,
said, as Arab oil ministers and officials gather in Cairo for a
weekend meeting.  Ghanem told reporters that market conditions will determine
whether OPEC decides to increase production quotas next year,
without specifying a timeframe. Libya’s top oil official is in
the Egyptian capital to attend a Dec. 25 meeting of the
 Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries .  “Oil will reach $100” a barrel, he said.  OAPEC, seven of whose members are also part of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, was established
in 1968 to foster the development of the petroleum industry in
member states as part of an economic integration plan among Arab
countries.  OPEC, which accounts for 40 percent of global oil supply,
decided at its last meeting in Quito, Ecuador, on Dec. 11 to
maintain its production target of 24.845 million barrels a day,
set in 2008. OPEC’s next formal meeting is scheduled for June
2011.  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  told reporters in
Quito on Dec. 11 that oil at $70 to $80 a barrel is a good price,
that the market is stable and supply and demand are in balance,
while Kuwaiti Oil Minister Sheikh Ahmad al-Abdullah al-Sabah
said then that he was satisfied with prices near $90.  Oil in the $80s  Qatar’s Oil Minister  Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah  has said
oil in the $80s is best for producers and consumers. Algerian
Oil Minister  Youcef Yousfi  said at a conference in Doha on Dec.
1 that the market is in a “normal situation” and prices are
likely to be stable for months.  Crude oil futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange
advanced 14 percent this year, and traded today at $90.70 a
barrel. Prices will return to $100 for the first time in two
years during 2011 amid rising global demand, according to
strategists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Libya, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait and Algeria are all
members of both OPEC and OAPEC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Galal  at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net 
 Marek Strzelecki  in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  