-- UBS, JPMorgan, MBIA, AIG, RBS, Lehman in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-12-23T13:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/icap-ubs-j-j-bank-of-queensland-rbs-lehman-in-court-news.html
Three former  UBS AG  executives who
pleaded guilty or were sentenced in U.S. courts over a 24-hour
period put the largest Swiss bank in a different light than its
 website  touting the skill and professionalism of its bankers.  Yesterday and the day before, one banker pleaded guilty and
another was sentenced in separate cases involving insider
trading while a third pleaded guilty in a tax case. A fourth
man, an ex-UBS client, admitted yesterday to hiding his Swiss
bank account from U.S. tax authorities. Zurich-based UBS
admitted last year that it helped thousands of Americans evade
taxes, avoided U.S. prosecution by paying $780 million and gave
the Internal Revenue Service data on accounts.  Igor Poteroba, 37, pleaded guilty to one count of
conspiracy to commit securities fraud and three counts of
securities fraud on Dec. 21 before U.S. District Judge Paul A.
Crotty in Manhattan, according to court records. He was accused
of tipping friends to potential mergers and has agreed to
forfeit $465,000 in proceeds from the crime.  Nicos Stephanou will serve no more prison time after
testifying for prosecutors at an unrelated insider-trading
trial. He was sentenced yesterday in federal court in New York
after spending 19 months in custody after his arrest. Freed in
August, he was the government’s star witness in the trial of
Joseph Contorinis, a former money manager at  Jefferies Paragon
Fund  who was convicted in October in an insider-trading scheme
that prosecutors said netted more than $7 million in illegal
profits.  In a third case, former UBS banker Renzo Gadola pleaded
guilty to helping wealthy American clients hide assets from the
Internal Revenue Service.  Gadola, 44, yesterday admitted conspiring with a Swiss
banker to encourage U.S. clients who hadn’t told the IRS about
their UBS accounts to open undeclared ones at Basler
Kantonalbank. Gadola, who is cooperating with prosecutors,
entered his plea in federal court in Miami.  The unidentified banker and Gadola told clients not to join
a partial amnesty program that led 18,000 Americans to disclose
offshore accounts to the IRS, prosecutors said. Gadola and the
banker told U.S. clients “not to disclose their undeclared
accounts at Basler Kantonalbank and other banks to the United
States government,” according to court filings.  A former UBS client, Ernest Vogliano, pleaded guilty to six
federal tax charges for hiding about $1.8 million in a Swiss
bank account from the IRS.  Vogliano, who lives in New York, was among seven one-time
UBS clients who were arrested or whose guilty pleas were
announced in April. Vogliano entered his plea yesterday in
federal court in Manhattan.  The Poteroba case is U.S. v. Poteroba, 10-mag-00562, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan); The
Stephanou case is U.S. v. Contorinis, 09-cr-467, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The Gadola
case is U.S. v. Gadola, 10-cr-20878, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Florida (Miami). The Vogliano case is U.S.
v. Vogliano, 10-cr-327, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  JPMorgan to Pay Florida $25 Million for Securities Sales  JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  the second-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, agreed to pay Florida $25 million to settle allegations
it sold unregistered securities to a state-run municipal money-
market fund that suffered a run on deposits because it held
defaulted debt.  Participants in Florida’s Local Government Investment Pool
will get $23 million of the settlement to reimburse them for
losses in 2007 on asset-backed securities, some of which were
sold by JPMorgan to the fund’s overseer, the State Board of
Administration, Attorney General Bill McCollum said yesterday in
a  statement . The rest will pay fines and related costs, he said.  “This settlement is part of the state’s continued efforts
to secure the maximum valuation of investment securities held by
the SBA,” McCollum said from Tallahassee, the capital.  Assets in what was once the largest U.S. manager of
municipal cash plunged from $27 billion in November 2007 to
about  $6.9 billion  this week after it said that it held
defaulted mortgage-backed bonds. A rush by municipalities to
pull out money forced the fund to freeze withdrawals, leaving
some communities without cash to pay workers and other costs.  The fund, since renamed  Florida Prime , was reorganized to
segregate the defaulted securities under a plan from New York-
based  BlackRock Inc. , the biggest publicly traded U.S. money
manager. The best-quality securities were set aside as Fund A
and resumed paying withdrawals.  “The settlement is a fair, reasonable and a responsible
result for the participants,” Ash Williams, the state board’s
executive director, said in the statement from McCollum.  McCollum said the New York-based bank’s JPMorgan Securities
LLC unit had violated Florida law by selling unregistered bonds
to the fund.  JPMorgan “desires to resolve this matter to avoid the
burden and cost of any litigation, and accordingly does not
admit or deny” the findings of Florida’s investigation, the
company said in the settlement agreement.  “We are pleased that both parties can now move past this
issue and we look forward to continuing our service to the state
of Florida,” JPMorgan said in a statement e-mailed from the
office of its spokesman, Joe Evangelisti, in New York.  ICAP Fails to Force Ex-Brokers to Boost Compensation  ICAP Plc , the world’s biggest broker of trades between
banks, lost a bid to force two former employees to pay a further
HK$32.9 million ($4.2 million) in compensation for resigning
with immediate effect.  Former Hong Kong equity desk head Elaine Chan and deputy
Paul Kwok don’t have to pay ICAP funds equivalent to the bonuses
they would have earned had they stayed, Hong Kong Court of First
Instance Judge Arjan Sakhrani ruled yesterday.  Chan and Kwok quit in November 2006 to join Nittan Capital
Asia Ltd. and paid ICAP a combined HK$5 million in lieu of
working their notice period to January 2008. Sakhrani said ICAP
couldn’t be paid what the workers may have earned in bonuses,
which can’t be considered wages.  “We are reserving our position with respect to an
appeal,” said London-based ICAP’s spokesman Mike Sheard in an
e-mailed statement.  ICAP’s Hong Kong unit said the bonuses would have been the
same as they earned a year earlier: HK$19.5 million for Chan and
HK$13.4 million for Kwok.  “I am happy with the result and am glad this episode is
over after more than three years,” Chan said by e-mail
yesterday. “It’s time to move on.”  The case is ICAP (Hong Kong) Ltd. and Elaine Chan and Kwok
Chi Leung, CA636&637/2007, Hong Kong Court of First Instance.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Martek Biosciences Option Buyers Accused of Inside Trades  Unknown buyers of  Martek Biosciences Corp.  options were
sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over claims
they traded on inside information of  Royal DSM NV ’s acquisition
of the company.  The SEC said in a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Manhattan that the unknown purchasers used an anonymous
UBS AG account to buy 2,615 call options on Martek stock from
Dec. 10 to Dec. 15 and then sold the options on Dec. 21, the
same day the acquisition was announced. Martek, based in
Columbia, Maryland, develops products made from microalgae.  “As a result, the unknown purchasers are in a position to
realize total profits of approximately $1.2 million from the
sale of call options,” the agency said in its complaint.  Royal DSM , a chemical company based in Heerlen,
Netherlands, said it would pay $1 billion, or $31.50 a share,
for all outstanding Martek common stock, a 35 percent premium
over the previous day’s closing price, according to the SEC. The
SEC said there was no publicly available information about the
Martek acquisition before it was announced.  The SEC is seeking an order blocking the buyers from
violating U.S. securities law and requiring them to turn over
the profits and pay civil fines.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. One or
More Unknown Purchasers of Securities of Martek Biosciences
Corp., 10-cv-09527, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  Bloomberg Sues ECB to Force Disclosure of Greece Swaps  Bloomberg News filed a lawsuit against the European Central
Bank, seeking the disclosure of documents showing how Greece
used derivatives to hide its fiscal deficit and helped trigger
the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  The lawsuit asks the European Union’s General Court in
Luxembourg to overturn a decision by the ECB not to disclose two
internal documents drafted for the central bank’s six-member
executive board in Frankfurt this year. The notes show how
Greece used swaps to hide its borrowings, according to a March 3
cover page attached to the papers obtained by Bloomberg News.  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet withheld the documents
after the EU and International Monetary Fund led a 110 billion-
euro bailout ($144 billion) for Greece. The dossier should be
disclosed to stop governments from employing the derivatives in
a similar way again and to show how EU authorities acted on
information they had on the swaps, according to the suit, filed
by Bloomberg Finance LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  The EU is dependent “on member states taking an open and
transparent approach in relation to their levels of debt,”
Bloomberg said in its suit. “If Greece has failed to take such
an approach in the past, there is a compelling public interest
in relevant information being disclosed.”  An ECB spokeswoman declined to comment on the lawsuit,
which is based on the EU’s freedom of information rules.  The Greek government didn’t originally disclose the swaps,
designed to help it comply with the deficit and debt rules it
agreed to meet when it joined the euro in 2001.  Eurostat , the
EU’s statistics agency, said last month the swaps added 5.3
billion euros to the country’s debt, without giving details.
Repeated revisions of Greece’s national accounts, beginning last
year, spurred a surge in borrowing costs that pushed the country
to the brink of default and triggered a regionwide debt crisis.  For more, click here.  J&J Directors Ignored ‘Red Flags’ on Recalls, Probes  A group of  Johnson & Johnson  shareholders accused the
company’s directors of ignoring “red flags” foreshadowing
product recalls and government probes of manufacturing defects
and marketing practices.  The  shareholders  asked a judge to find that directors and
top executives mismanaged  J&J  and order them to pay damages.
They also want J&J to “improve its corporate governance and
internal procedures,” according to a complaint filed Dec. 17 in
federal court in Trenton, New Jersey. Any money recovered would
go to the company and not investors individually.  J&J, the world’s  biggest maker  of health-care products,
recalled more than 40 types of medicines this year because of
contamination and incorrect labeling. U.S. lawmakers began
investigating J&J after a recall of batches of children’s
Tylenol in April forced the company to suspend operations at a
Pennsylvania plant. The probe uncovered the use of contractors
to buy defective Motrin painkiller.  J&J also faces government investigations into whether it
illegally marketed drugs and devices for uses not approved by
the Food and Drug Administration and paid kickbacks. On Dec. 17,
shareholders amended their so-called derivative lawsuits that
seek to force directors and officers to pay the company.  Carol Goodrich, a spokeswoman for New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based J&J, said the company is reviewing the complaint
and has no comment.  The case is In Re Johnson & Johnson Derivative Litigation,
10-cv-2033, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Trenton).  For more, click here.  ASIC Sues Macquarie, Bank of Queensland Over Storm  Bank of Queensland Ltd.  and  Macquarie Bank Ltd.  breached
contracts with investors and together with the  Commonwealth Bank
of Australia  were involved in an unregistered investment scheme
related to the collapse of Storm Financial Ltd., Australia’s
securities regulator said.  The Australian Securities & Investments Commission sued the
three banks in federal court yesterday seeking compensation for
investors in Storm, which had managed A$4 billion ($4 billion).
The suit was filed after the regulator said it failed to reach
an out-of-court settlement with the banks.  “ASIC has maintained that a commercial resolution is the
preferred approach,” Tony D’Aloisio, the commission’s chairman,
said in a statement. “Unfortunately, discussions did not result
in a satisfactory outcome.”  Storm  induced investors to mortgage their homes, take out
margin loans, and put the money into Storm Australian Index
Trusts with the promise their returns would be enough to pay the
loans and live off the proceeds in retirement, according to
ASIC’s statement of claim filed in federal court in Sydney
yesterday.  Storm, which was based in Townsville, Queensland, received
commissions from the investments in the trusts and had a
incentive to encourage clients to maximize the amount of money
they put into the funds, the regulator said.  The company collapsed in January, 2009, after banks
notified customers they were in breach of their margins. Storm
said at the time trading losses resulted in a decline in income
which the company couldn’t absorb any longer.  Bank of Queensland said in a regulatory filing yesterday it
intends to defend itself. The bank didn’t act illegally or
dishonestly, it said.  Commonwealth Bank said, “The bank fundamentally disagrees
with ASIC’s view of the role of banks in losses suffered by
Storm investors,” the bank said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Macquarie and its staff acted ethically, lawfully and
professionally, the bank said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  The case is Australian Securities and Investments
Commission v. Bank of Queensland Ltd., NSD1797/2010, Federal
Court of Australia (Sydney).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here.  Lawsuits  MBIA May Use Statistical Sampling in Bank of America Suit  Bank of America Corp.  lost a bid to prevent  MBIA Inc.  from
using statistical sampling to pursue repurchase demands in a
lawsuit claiming it was fraudulently induced to insure $21
billion in mortgage-backed securities.  MBIA  asked New York State Supreme Court Judge Eileen
Bransten to allow company lawyers to develop evidence using
samples from 368,000 mortgages in 15 securitized pools to
establish its fraud claims, rather than go through each loan.
Proceeding loan by loan might lead to “a delay of several years
before trial,” Philippe Z. Selendy, an attorney for Armonk, New
York-based MBIA, said in an Oct. 13 letter to the judge.  “The court does not find any prejudice in deciding the
motion before it and allowing the use of statistically
significant samples of the securitizations at issue,” Bransten
ruled yesterday. She said the defendants could also choose to
use their “own sampling chosen in a statistically valid
manner” to rebut MBIA’s arguments.  Bank of America said it was “too early” in the litigation
to allow such sampling, according to court papers.  “Today’s ruling is limited and procedural in nature.
Nothing has been decided on the merits,” Jerry Dubrowski, a
spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America,
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “As the court notes,
MBIA must prove each element of its claims -- this we believe it
cannot do. We intend to continue to aggressively defend.”  MBIA’s suit against  Bank of America  and its Countrywide
unit is one of at least 12 claims brought by insurers in state
and federal courts targeting issuers of mortgage-backed
securities, including Deutsche Bank AG, Credit Suisse and GMAC
Mortgage LLC. Government-owned mortgage companies Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, and bond investors such as MetLife Inc., are also
pursuing repurchase demands from originators of the securities.  Bank of America is in talks with institutional investors,
including Pacific Investment Management Co. and Blackrock Inc.,
over repurchase demands, the bank said in a Dec. 16 statement.  A decision to allow sampling would reduce the time and cost
of MBIA’s litigation and aid other insurers and investors
pursuing put-back lawsuits, New York attorney David Grais said
before the ruling was issued.  The case is MBIA Insurance v. Countrywide Home Loans,
602825-08, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  AIG Fine May Give Competitors Momentum in $1 Billion Lawsuit  American International Group Inc. , the company defending
itself against a $1 billion workers’ compensation lawsuit filed
by rival insurers, may have handed its accusers momentum by
agreeing to pay $146.5 million to settle a probe by regulators.  “That certainly can’t help their position in court,” said
Edward Priz, president of Riverside, Illinois-based commercial
insurance consultant Advanced Insurance Management LLC.  AIG will pay $100 million in fines and $46.5 million in
taxes and assessments to resolve the 50-state investigation, the
Pennsylvania insurance regulator said yesterday. New York-based
AIG was suspected of cheating state-run funds that serve as
insurers of last resort against workplace injuries.  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, shortchanged the
state pools by underreporting premiums it made selling workers’
compensation protection, rivals including Liberty Mutual Holding
Co. said in court documents filed in 2009 in U.S. District Court
in Chicago. The state insurers of last resort, which cover
injuries at employers that pose unattractive risks, are funded
by contributions from carriers that offer the coverage.  “Accurate company financial data is an essential
ingredient of proper insurance regulation,” Pennsylvania acting
commissioner Robert Pratter said in a statement. “This reflects
the seriousness of the violations in this instance over a
sustained period of time -- primarily prior to 1996 -- by AIG’s
prior senior management.”  The agreement, endorsed by eight states including
Pennsylvania, is contingent upon approval by at least 35 other
regulatory jurisdictions and AIG’s settlements with rival
insurers, according to the statement.  “If this settlement becomes final, we will have resolved
all remaining regulatory issues related to AIG’s workers’
compensation premium reporting for our stakeholders,” Mark
Herr, an AIG spokesman, said in a statement.  The case is National Council on Compensation Insurance Inc.
v. American International Group Inc. 1:07-cv-02898, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more, click here.  For copies of recent civil complaints, click here. For the
latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  RBS Unit May Win U.K. Tax Case After EU Court Ruling  A German unit of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  should
win a dispute with U.K. authorities over value-added tax in a
car-leasing agreement with a Vinci SA subsidiary, the European
Union’s highest court said.  The  European Court of Justice  yesterday rejected claims by
the U.K. tax office that the car-leasing transaction amounted to
an abusive practice solely aimed at getting a fiscal advantage.  RBS Deutschland  “provided the services at issue in the
course of a genuine economic activity,” a  five-judge panel  of
the EU court in Luxembourg ruled. “Where it is possible for the
taxable person to choose from among a number of transactions, he
may choose to structure his business in such a way as to limit
his tax liability.”  Yesterday’s ruling follows an EU court decision from 2006
that said the U.K. may ban companies from cutting their VAT bill
by setting up artificial transactions that seek no other
commercial purpose than to avoid paying tax. U.K. Revenue and
Customs argued RBS’s German unit had set up such a deal with
Vinci Fleet Services. The EU court disagreed.  The U.K. can’t “refuse to allow” companies to recoup VAT
paid on goods that are subsequently leased in other EU states
just because these leasing transactions aren’t subject to the
levy, the court said.  U.K. Revenue and Customs “is currently considering the
impact of this judgment carefully,” the tax office said in an
e-mailed statement.  The case is  C-277/09 , The Commissioners for Her Majesty’s
Revenue & Customs v. RBS Deutschland Holdings GmbH.  For more, click here.  Lehman Client-Money Appeal by GLG Going to U.K. Supreme Court  A  GLG Partners Inc.  fund can appeal part of a ruling over
billions of dollars that Lehman Brothers International Europe
didn’t properly protect by putting it in separate accounts.  The U.K. Supreme Court granted permission Dec. 20,
according to the judgment, which was posted yesterday on the
website of LBIE administrator PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  GLG, which had its money separated from the bank’s, is
appealing an August ruling by a London court. That decision said
the administrators must identify all client funds that weren’t
properly segregated and pool them with accounts that were kept
separate. GLG is a unit of London-based  Man Group Plc .  Clients can claim from the pool, whether their money was
separated or not, according to the August judgment. It overturns
a lower court’s decision to treat clients whose money wasn’t
separated as unsecured creditors in the U.K. insolvency case,
likely giving them only a fraction of what they are owed.  “The joint administrators and the client money team
continue to make progress in identifying client money in
unsegregated bank and transaction accounts,” PwC said.  Arun Srivastava, a lawyer for Hong Leung Bank Bhd., which
represented the general estate in the dispute, said their
interests “will be put forward by GLG” in the appeal.  Robert Turner, a lawyer for CRC Credit Fund Ltd., which
acted on behalf of clients whose money wasn’t segregated, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Another appeal in the case, by Lehman Brothers Inc., was
denied. The administrators also weren’t granted permission to
appeal but can act as respondents.  Modified Sugar Beet Crop’s Destruction Put on Hold by Court  Genetically modified sugar beet plants that would produce
seeds for the 2012 planting season can’t yet be destroyed as
ordered by a judge, a federal appeals court in San Francisco
ruled.  The U.S. Court of Appeals put on hold until Feb. 28 a
judge’s Nov. 30 order to dig up 256 acres of sugar beet
seedlings, or until it issues an order, whichever is first,
according to a ruling yesterday. Environmental groups sued the
U.S. Department of Agriculture to block planting permits given
four companies for beets that were modified to withstand
 Monsanto Co. ’s Roundup herbicide.  Sugar beets, grown on 1.3 million acres in 10 states,
provide half the nation’s sugar supply, according to the  Sugar
Industry Biotech Council . The groups and organic seed
organizations claim wind-blown pollen from the genetically
engineered crops will contaminate conventional sugar beets and
other closely related plants.  Monsanto and sugar beet companies said the genetically
modified seedlings, or stecklings, could “save the livelihoods
of thousands of our nation’s sugarbeet farmers,” according to
court filings. The plants won’t flower before the permits expire
in February, so there is no risk of gene flow, the USDA said in
court filings.  The appeals court on Dec. 6 put a temporary hold on U.S.
District Judge Jeffrey White’s Nov. 30 order, which the
government is appealing.  The case is Center for Food Safety v. Vilsack, 10-17722,
9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (San Francisco).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 