-- India Plans Riversdale Bid to Challenge Rio’s Offer
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2010-12-24T10:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/icvl-appoints-citigroup-to-study-bid-for-riversdale-update1-.html
India’s government is planning to
make an unsolicited bid to counter a A$3.9 billion ($3.9 billion)
offer from Rio Tinto Group for  Riversdale Mining Ltd.   International Coal Ventures Ltd. , a group of Indian state-
run metal and energy companies, hired Citigroup Inc. yesterday
to study a possible counterbid for the Sydney-based coal company
with mines in Mozambique, the venture’s Chairman  C.S. Verma  said
yesterday. London-based Rio yesterday bid A$16 a share, securing
14.9 percent of Riversdale in pre-bid agreements.  Indian companies are seeking coal mines overseas to secure
raw material supplies for steel and electricity. Brazil’s Vale
SA or Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. may also bid, according
to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Tata Steel Ltd., Riversdale’s
biggest shareholder, said it will consider Rio’s offer “in the
context of other alternatives” available.  “Financially International Coal Ventures looks strong as
it has the backing of cash-rich promoters,”  Navin Vohra , a
partner at Ernst & Young India Ltd. said by phone from New Delhi.
“However, the tag of being state-owned and unsuccessful in
securing mining assets so far may weigh on its chances.”  Coal India Ltd. , world’s largest producer, and  Steel
Authority of India Ltd. , the nation’s second-largest, own about
28 percent each in International Coal Ventures.  NTPC Ltd.,  
India’s biggest power generator,  NMDC Ltd. , the nation’s biggest
iron-ore producer, and steelmaker Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd.
hold about 14 percent each.  Riversdale stock climbed 0.8 percent to A$16.70 at the
close of trading on the Australian stock exchange. That’s 5.6
percent more than Rio’s offer, which was recommended by all of
Riversdale’s board, barring the director appointed by Tata Steel.
Rio fell 1 percent to A$86.36.  Shareholder Support  A successful bid for control will need the support of at
least one of Riversdale’s major  shareholders , with the top-three
investors owning about 51 percent. These shareholders, Tata
Steel, Passport Capital LLC and Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA,
were kept informed during the talks with Rio and haven’t raised
any objections, Riversdale Managing Director  Steve Mallyon  said
in a phone interview yesterday.  “The A$16 cash offer is unlikely to secure acceptance from
all of Riversdale’s shareholders,” analysts led by  Hayden Bairstow  at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said yesterday in a
report, raising his price target for Riversdale by 3 percent to
A$18. Riversdale’s “Benga and Zambeze coal projects are world
class and we believe other suitors may show an interest in
Riversdale now a formal bid has been tabled,” he said.  Counter Bid  A counter bidder may have to pay as much as A$20.80 a share,
Commonwealth Bank of Australia analysts led by  Tomas Vasquez 
said in a report.  Riversdale hasn’t had approaches from any other company,
Riversdale’s Mallyon said. Citigroup will submit its report in
two weeks, Verma told reporters in New Delhi yesterday after a
board meeting. ICVL hasn’t discussed Riversdale with Tata Steel,
he said.  “The investment in the Benga project is strategic for Tata
Steel, not the financial investment in the company,” said
Giriraj Daga, an analyst who has a “buy” rating on the stock
at Nirmal Bang Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “Any decision to sell
stake in the company will help Tata Steel’s balance sheet as
well as its share price.”  China’s Wuhan Iron & Steel Corp. “could also show
interest,” since Riversdale yesterday terminated a potential
$800 million investment deal with the steelmaker, Dominic Kane,
an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd., said yesterday in a report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rajesh Kumar Singh  in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  