-- India Seeks to Cool Onion Prices as Food Inflation Quickens to 6-Week High
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2010-12-23T10:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/india-seeks-to-rein-in-onion-prices-bans-exports-as-inflation-accelerates.html
India’s food inflation accelerated
to a six-week high, adding pressure on authorities to curb a
jump in onion prices that has forced the nation to halt exports
of the staple this week and toppled governments in the past.  An  index  measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products including lentils, rice and vegetables compiled by the
commerce ministry rose 12.13 percent in the week ended Dec. 11
from a year earlier, a trade ministry report showed in New Delhi
today. The index gained 9.46 percent the previous week.  Opposition parties have criticized Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government for failing to check rising prices and the
central bank has raised interest rates to contain inflation
that’s triggered labor strikes and public protests. The Hindu
nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party was defeated in local
elections in 1998 after a surge in onion prices.  “Everyone, irrespective of economic condition, would have
to use it on a day-to-day basis and it is a very sensitive item
both from an economic point of view and political point of
view,”  Siddhartha Sanyal , chief India economist at Barclays
Bank Plc’s investment banking division, told Bloomberg
Television in an interview today. “They cannot ignore it.”  India will take steps to cool food inflation and onion
prices will ease soon, Cabinet Secretary  K.M. Chandrasekhar  said
today. The world’s second-biggest onion grower said yesterday it
would buy the crop from abroad and banned exports indefinitely
of all varieties of the vegetable, a key ingredient in the
country’s fiery curries and biryani dishes.  Stocks Fall  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index fell for a
second day in Mumbai. The yield on India’s 10-year bond rose 3
basis points to 7.97 percent.  Onion prices jumped 33.5 percent from a year earlier, the
wholesale food report showed. Retail prices of onions have risen
from as little as 10 rupees ($0.22) a kilogram in June to as
much as 85 rupees, the Business Standard newspaper  said  today.  The country reduced the import duty for onions to zero and
ordered state-owned trading companies to import the vegetable,
trade secretary  Rahul Khullar  said yesterday. The government has
banned onion exports indefinitely.  India is importing the crop from neighboring Pakistan in a
bid to contain prices, the Press Trust of India said yesterday.
The government, in an advertisement in the Indian Express
newspaper today, said that prices are likely to decline.  Election Loss  A fivefold increase in the price of onions 12 years ago
drove inflation to almost 9 percent and contributed to the
defeat of the now main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party in
provincial elections. The BJP lost elections in Madhya Pradesh,
Delhi and Rajasthan as onion prices surged as high as 60 rupees
a kilogram.  “Onions are politically sensitive as parties have lost
elections over onion prices in the past,” said N. Bhaskara Rao,
chairman of the Centre for Media Studies in New Delhi. “This
price rise is a classic case of management failure of the
agricultural produce so important for Indians.”  The government has asked “state companies to sell onions
at 40 rupees a kilogram,” junior food minister K.V. Thomas told
reporters in New Delhi today. “We have asked state governments
to be more vigilant as there is a huge difference between the
wholesale and retail prices” of onions.  Food prices aren’t dropping enough and an “upside risk”
to inflation still persists, Reserve Bank of India Deputy
Governor  Subir Gokarn  told reporters yesterday. The central bank
predicts the benchmark wholesale-price inflation rate may slow
to 5.5 percent by March 31 from 7.48 percent in November.  Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  may resume monetary tightening in
January after keeping borrowing costs on hold at a Dec. 16
policy meeting, said economists including  Jay Shankar , chief
economist at Religare Capital Markets Ltd. in Mumbai. The
central bank has lifted interest rates six times in 2010.  The wholesale food-price index reading for the week ended
Dec. 11 climbed 2.26 percent to 185.8 from a week earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  