-- Inflation Bond Rally Ebbs as Central Bank Signals Rate Rise: Brazil Credit
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-12-23T20:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/inflation-bond-rally-ebbs-as-central-bank-signals-rate-rise-brazil-credit.html
Inflation forecasts in  Brazil  are
declining from a two-year high after policy makers signaled they
are ready to raise borrowing costs to curb consumer prices, bond
yields show.  The yield gap between the government’s inflation-linked and
fixed-rate bonds due in 2013 shrank 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, yesterday to 612 after the central bank said
there’s a need for “adjustment” in  interest rates  to stem
consumer price increases. The yield difference, a gauge of
investor expectations for annual inflation over the next two
years, reached 637 earlier this week, the highest since December
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand for protection against inflation is waning on
speculation Brazil will join countries from  Chile  to  Thailand  in
raising borrowing costs. Brazilian bonds tied to an index of
consumer prices outperformed fixed-rated bonds in each of the
past four months amid concern policy makers may fail to act fast
enough to contain inflation that quickened to a 23-month high.  “With rate increases, inflation expectations should fall
next year,” said Marcelo Schmitt, a fixed-income portfolio
manager at SulAmerica Investimentos, which has 18 billion reais
($10.6 billion) under management. The outperformance of
inflation-linked bonds may “come to an end,” he said in a
telephone interview in Sao Paulo.  Schmitt said he has been selling his inflation-linked bonds
and buying fixed-rate debt over the past two weeks.  The yield on notes tied to inflation jumped 18 basis points
yesterday, the most since Nov. 29, to 6.33 percent, according to
Bloomberg data. The government’s fixed-rate debt rallied,
driving up prices and pushing yields down 7 basis points to
12.45 percent.  ‘Mismatch’  Annual inflation quickened to 5.79 percent in the 12 months
through mid-December, fueled by higher food prices, credit and
wage growth. It was the fourth consecutive month consumer prices
exceeded the government’s target of 4.5 percent, plus or minus
two percentage points.  Policy makers have to “contain the mismatch between the
pace of expansion of domestic demand and the production capacity
of the economy,” according to the central bank’s quarterly
inflation report released yesterday.  Interest-rate increases of 150 basis points to 12.25
percent and a stable currency would bring down inflation to
around the 4.5 percent target in the next two years, Carlos Hamilton, central bank director for economic policy, told
reporters in Brasilia yesterday. The real is up 40 percent
against the dollar in the past two years.  ‘Strong Signal’  The inflation report sends “a very strong signal” that
the central bank will “start the hiking cycle in January,”
Marcelo Salomon, chief Brazil economist for Barclays Plc in  New
York , said in a telephone interview. The risk of inflation
“overshooting” the upper ceiling of the central bank’s target
has declined as policy makers sent a “clear message” that they
will act quickly, he said.  Barclays yesterday moved its forecast for a rate increase
to January from March, predicting the central bank will raise
borrowing costs 150 basis points by the end of April.  Alexandre Tombini, who was confirmed as central bank
president by the senate last week, will increase lending rates
by 50 basis points when he chairs his first monetary policy
meeting Jan. 18-19 and push it up to about 12.75 percent by the
end of 2011, interest-rate futures contracts show. Brazil’s
10.75 percent rate compares with U.S. borrowing costs of between
zero and 0.25 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 2 basis points to 179
at 3:54 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 1 basis point
yesterday to 113, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real rose 0.5 percent to 1.6913 per dollar.  Brazilian inflation-linked bonds maturing in less than five
years returned 12.7 percent this year, compared with an 11.2
percent advance for fixed-rated securities, according to data
compiled by the country’s capital markets association.  Debt tied to consumer prices in the U.S. gained 8.1 percent
this year, while similar securities in  Turkey  returned 24
percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Brazil’s inflation-linked bonds “may lose part of the
appeal they had so far,” said Barclays’ Salomon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  