-- InterMune Investors Sued by SEC for Insider Trading
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-23T18:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/intermune-buyers-sued-by-sec-for-insider-trading-of-drug-company-s-options.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued unknown buyers of options on the stock of
 InterMune Inc. , a biopharmaceutical maker, claiming they had
inside information about regulatory approval of its drug
Esbriet.  In a complaint filed today in federal court in Manhattan,
the SEC said the unknown parties bought 637 options contracts on
the Chicago Board Options Exchange and the Philadelphia Stock
Exchange between Dec. 7 and 13. The options to buy shares were
bets that their price would rise.  On Dec. 17, Brisbane, California-based InterMune said a
European Union regulator had recommended granting marketing
authorization for Esbriet, a treatment for idiopathic pulmonary
fibrosis, a fatal lung disease. InterMune soared $20.62 to
$34.89 in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading  that day, the biggest one-
day gain since its March 2000 initial public offering.  “After the announcement and the opening of the New York
securities markets, the price of InterMune stock rose
materially, approximately 144 percent during a single trading
day,” the agency said in its complaint.  As a result, the unknown options buyers may have made
profits of $912,000, the SEC said. The trades were made using
anonymous accounts held at UBS Securities Ltd. and Barclays
Capital Inc. in London, according to the complaint.  Seeking Order  The SEC is seeking an order blocking the buyers from
violating U.S. securities law and requiring them to turn over
the profits and pay civil fines.  Yesterday the SEC sued unknown buyers of  Martek Biosciences
Corp.  options, claiming they had traded on information the
company was being acquired before the deal was announced. The
customer ID number on the UBS account that bought the Martek
options is the same as the UBS account used to buy the InterMune
options, according to the two complaints.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. One or
More Unknown Purchasers of Options of InterMune Inc., 10-cv-
09560, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 