-- Ireland Seizes Allied Irish, Fourth Bank Nationalized
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-12-23T17:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/ireland-takes-control-of-allied-irish-fourth-bank-in-two-years.html
Ireland’s High Court said  Allied
Irish Banks Plc  can be taken over by the government without
shareholder approval as the lender became the fourth bank to
fall under state control since 2008.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  secured approval from the
Dublin-based court today to inject 3.7 billion euros ($4.8
billion) into the lender by Dec. 31 and raise its stake to 92
percent from 19 percent, the Finance Ministry said in a
statement. Allied Irish, Ireland’s largest company by market
value in 2007,  recorded its biggest share price drop in 22
months in Dublin trading. Valued at almost 21 billion euros at
its peak, the bank’s market capitalization today was 347 million
euros.  “We wouldn’t have had Allied Irish Banks on the 1st of
January if this investment wasn’t made,” Lenihan said in an
interview with Dublin-based broadcaster RTE Radio after the
ruling.  Irish banks are grappling with loan losses after the
collapse of a decade-long real-estate boom. The state has
already taken control of  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. , Irish
Nationwide Building Society and EBS Building Society. Irish Life
& Permanent Plc, the only Irish lender to avoid a bailout, will
try to meet new capital requirements from its own and from
market resources early next year, Lenihan said. So will  Bank of
Ireland  Plc, which is 36 percent state-owned, he said.  ‘Critical’ to Company  Allied Irish needs to raise 6.1 billion euros by the end of
February to reach a new target of 12 percent for core Tier 1
capital, a gauge of financial strength. The new target was set
by the Central Bank on Nov. 28 as Ireland agreed to an 85
billion-euro international bailout to bailout its banks and the
public finances.  “The capital increase by year-end is, in the opinion of
AIB’s board of directors, critical for the continued activities
of the company,” Allied Irish said in a statement today.  To achieve the February target, Allied Irish said it is
considering selling further shares to the state and generating
equity by buying bank or exchanging subordinated bonds at a
discount in the market.  “It’s clear the government doesn’t want to wipe out
shareholders - at least for the time being,”  Emer Lang , an
analyst with Dublin-based securities firm Davy, said by
telephone.  The government committed today to converting its 3.5
billion euros of  Allied Irish  preference shares, acquired in May
2009, into ordinary stock to help achieve the remaining capital.  “I think Allied Irish will be able to raise the remaining
2.6 billion euros from buybacks or swaps of subordinated
bonds,” said Lang.  Shareholder Rights ‘Unaffected’  At Lenihan’s request, the Dublin court also directed the
bank to cancel its listing on the main Irish and London stock
exchanges and move to the junior Irish bourse, the Enterprise
Securities Market.  “This is to ensure that shareholders retain access to a
public trading facility for their shares,” the Finance Ministry
said in a statement. “Shareholders’ ownership of, and rights
over, the existing ordinary shares will be unaffected by this
move.”  The government’s stake will be temporarily limited at 49.9
percent to facilitate the completion of Allied Irish’s sale of
its Polish unit. Following the disposal of Bank Zachodni BWK SA
to Banco Santander SA agreed on Sept. 10, the stake will
increase to 92 percent, the Finance Ministry said.  Allied Irish fell 20 percent to 32 cents at the 5:10 p.m.
close of Dublin trading, giving the lender a market value of 347
million euros.  Allied Irish was formed in  1966  through the merger of three
lenders, Munster & Leinster Bank Ltd., Provincial Bank of
Ireland Ltd. and Royal Bank of Ireland Ltd. Provincial was
established 185 years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  