-- IRS Delays Start of Filing Season for Taxpayers With Itemized Deductions
-- B y   P e t e r   C o h n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2010-12-23T19:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/irs-delays-filing-season-by-a-month-for-taxpayers-with-itemized-deductions.html
Taxpayers who claim deductions for
home-mortgage interest, gifts to charity and state and local
taxes will have to wait until middle to late February to file
their 2010 returns.  The  Internal Revenue Service  attributed the late start of
the filing season to changes in tax law for 2010 that were
finished last week. The agency needs extra time to put
processing systems in place, the IRS said today.  “The majority of taxpayers will be able to fill out their
tax returns and file them as they normally do,” IRS
Commissioner  Douglas Shulman  said in a statement. “We will do
everything we can to minimize the impact of recent tax law
changes on other taxpayers. The IRS will work through the
holidays and into the new year to get our systems reprogrammed
and ensure taxpayers have a smooth tax season.”  The delay also applies to filers preparing to take
advantage of a deduction for college tuition and fees of up to
$4,000, and a separate $250 deduction for teachers’ out-of-
pocket classroom expenses.  The late start to the filing season will affect an
estimated one-third of U.S. taxpayers who itemize their
deductions rather than claim the standard deduction, which for
2010 is $11,400 for a married couple filing jointly and $5,700
for individuals. According to IRS data for 2008, 33.8 percent of
individual returns, or 48.2 million, included itemized
deductions.  April 15 Deadline  The changes don’t affect the April 15 deadline for filing
tax returns. Many taxpayers don’t file until close to that
deadline, in part because it can take time to gather necessary
documents.  More than half of married couples filing jointly itemize
their deductions, and taxpayers who itemize tend to have higher
incomes. They received 69.4 percent of adjusted gross income in
2008, according to IRS data, more than double their share of the
U.S. population.  Alan Straus, a New York-based certified public accountant,
said the delay would affect taxpayers who file early and are
anticipating refund checks from the IRS.  “For most of my clients, they’re upper-income and they
won’t file until much later anyway because their info isn’t
complete,” said Straus, former chairman of the New York State
Society of CPAs’ committee on relations with the IRS. “This is
only a big deal to those expecting refunds and counting on them
quickly. For those people it will be unfortunate.”  Many File Later  The change is unlikely to affect taxpayers who wait until
close to the April 15 filing deadline to complete their returns.
In 2010, more than 40 percent of taxpayers filed their returns
after March 26.  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in
Jersey City, New Jersey, said the IRS move could delay between
$10 billion and $20 billion in tax refunds that would have gone
out in late January and early February.  That won’t be enough of a cushion to change when the
 Treasury Department  would hit the $14.294 trillion federal debt
ceiling, Crandall said.  He said he anticipates that the debt
ceiling limit will be reached in April or May, after which
Treasury can’t sell additional bonds to finance the federal
budget deficit.  “This should not affect the timing of the debt ceiling. My
projections suggest that the Treasury will not get close until
early April, and there is a chance that it might not have to
employ accounting tools until May,” Crandall said. “The
backlog from this should be worked off before it is relevant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Cohn  in Washington at 
 pcohn@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Rubin  in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  