-- Ivory Coast Presidential Contender Asks Bankers for Help in Ousting Gbagbo
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r ,   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-12-23T16:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/ivory-coast-presidential-contender-asks-bankers-for-help-in-ousting-gbagbo.html
Alassane Ouattara ’s support from the
United Nations, the U.S. and the African Union failed to secure
him control of Ivory Coast’s presidency from  Laurent Gbagbo .
Now, he is turning to bankers for help.  The World Bank and the Central Bank of West African States,
or BCEAO, have agreed to freeze loans to Ivory Coast, World Bank
President  Robert Zoellick  said yesterday, after receiving a
request from Ouattara. Ministers from BCEAO states will meet
this week to discuss ways to “affirm and strengthen” the loan
restrictions, he told reporters in Paris.  Gbagbo, 65, has been able to reject international calls to
resign following Nov. 28 elections because he remains in control
of the security forces and has access to tax revenue and
previously transferred funds from the central bank. Ouattara,
holed up in a hotel surrounded by the military, is seeking to
starve Gbagbo of funds, making it hard for him to pay the army
or meet payments on the country’s Eurobond.  “If Gbagbo is not able to access funds from BCEAO, that
would be cutting off his lifeline and the army could very well
turn,” said  Kissy Agyeman-Togobo , a partner with London-based
Songhai Advisory.  Political violence has claimed 173 lives in the past week,
while 90 people have been tortured, according to the UN. The
political standoff in the world’s largest cocoa producer started
when the Constitutional Council rejected the results of the
November election and declared Gbagbo the winner. The electoral
commission had given victory to Ouattara, 68.  ‘Financially Asphyxiated’  If the central bank cuts funding, “the question is, how
long will he be able to stay in power before he is financially
asphyxiated?”  Patrick Achi , spokesman for Ouattara’s
government, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  It also raises the prospect of Ivory Coast failing to meet
a $29 million interest payment on its Eurobond due on Dec. 31,
said  Phillip Blackwood , head of emerging markets at Sydbank A/S,
Denmark’s fourth-largest bank. The payment has a 30-day grace
period.  “Restricting Gbagbo’s finances increases significantly the
risk of a credit event,” Blackwood, who manages $2.7 billion in
funds, said in a telephone interview from Aarhus today. “It may
force Gbagbo to make the choice between paying the army, so as
to keep them on side in order to maintain his grip on the top
spot, and having to pay Eurobond investors. The longer this goes
on, the more likely it is he won’t pay.”  Record Yield  The Eurobonds, Africa’s biggest, have fallen for five days,
dropping 12.1 percent to 44.875 cents on the dollar yesterday
for the notes due December 2032. Investors offered to pay 42.5
cents on the dollar as of 4:28 p.m. in Abidjan, raising the
yield to 15.038 percent.  The World Bank’s decision will stall loans of about $245
million, Senior Operations Officer  Joelle Businger  said by phone
from Washington yesterday. It will also halt talks over $3
billion in debt relief, according to  Samir Gadio , an emerging-
markets strategist with Standard Bank Plc in London.  Finance ministers from the BCEAO countries are meeting
today to confirm the freeze on finances, Achi said. Ouattara was
the bank’s governor from 1988 to 1990. He also was director of
the International Monetary Fund’s Africa department for four
years before joining the BCEAO.  Most of Ivory Coast’s fiscal revenue is deposited at the
central bank, with the government withdrawing 70 billion CFA
francs ($139 million) a month to pay wages to state employees,
including soldiers, Achi said.  Cocoa Prices  The BCEAO meeting of finance ministers is still going on,
bank spokeswoman Marie-Laure Digbe said at 4 p.m. in Senegal’s
capital, Dakar.  The political crisis has fueled a 10.1 percent increase in
cocoa prices since Nov. 28. The cost of the chocolate ingredient
for March delivery advanced 2.1 percent, or $62, to $3,032 per
metric ton at 10:47 a.m. in New York.  The U.S. urged African nations to send in more peacekeepers
after  Guillaume Soro , whom Ouattara appointed prime minister,
demanded foreign powers remove Gbagbo by force. While the U.S.
“would hope that the use of force would not be necessary,”
adding to troop numbers would “send a clear message” that
Gbagbo must leave office, State Department  Philip J. Crowley 
said. UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  on Dec. 21 said there
“is a real risk of a return to civil war.”  Mercenaries, probably from Liberia and Angola, have been
recruited to help Gbagbo’s cause, according to  Alain LeRoy , head
of UN peacekeeping operations.  The only concrete diplomatic actions to date are a travel
ban on members of Gbagbo’s regime by the U.S. and European
Union, and suspension from Economic Community of West African
States and the 53-member African Union, a group that aims to
promote political and economic integration.  Latest Attempt  The request to starve Gbagbo of funds is Ouattara’s latest
attempt to take control of the presidency after the failure of
last week’s street protests and appeals by the international
community. The army is united behind Gbagbo, Reuters reported
today, citing spokesman Babri Gohourou.  The UN criticized the army for its suppression of last
week’s protests.  “The political stalemate has been characterized by the use
of excessive force by the supporters of Mr. Laurent Gbagbo to
repress public gatherings and marches; harassment and
intimidation; arbitrary arrest and detention; torture;
disappearances; and extrajudicial killings,” Kyung-wha Kang,
the deputy high commissioner for human rights, said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Finding a Way  Stalling funds from the central bank won’t work, said Yao
Gnamien, an adviser to Gbagbo.  “People work and they pay taxes, so the state has money,”
Gnamien said by phone yesterday. “It is a challenge, but I’m
confident that the president will find a way to deal with this
challenge.”  Gbagbo could force businesses to route payments through
other bank accounts. Revenue from about 60,000 barrels of oil
pumped every day is not channeled through the central bank,
according to Standard Bank’s Gadio.  That doesn’t concern Achi.  “When the decision of the BCEAO is official, everything
will be over,” he said. “Gbagbo won’t have access anymore to
state resources.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Olivier Monnier  and  Pauline Bax  in Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 