-- Ivory Coast Political Death Toll Reaches 173, UN Says
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-12-23T18:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/ivory-coast-death-toll-climbs-to-173-amid-post-election-violence-un-says.html
Political violence in Ivory Coast
has claimed the lives of 173 people in the past week, while 90
more have been tortured or ill treated and 24 have disappeared,
a United Nations official said.  Kyung-wha Kang, the UN deputy high commissioner for human
rights, said supporters of President  Laurent Gbagbo  have used
“excessive force,” torture and extrajudicial killings since
the announcement of election results that gave his rival,
 Alassane Ouattara , victory in the Nov. 28 election.  “These acts are ominously reminiscent of the violence that
blighted the country in 2004, and are blatant violations of
obligations under international human rights law,” Kang said
today at a UN Human Rights Council meeting in Geneva.  Supporters of Ouattara, recognized by the UN, U.S. and the
African Union as the election winner, on Dec. 16 took to the
streets of the commercial capital, Abidjan, to demonstrate
against Gbagbo, who says he won the vote and won’t step down.  “The security forces are doing their job, which is to say
to maintain order, not more,” Eric Ane, a spokesman for
Gbagbo’s party, said on the day of the protests.  Guillaume Soro , whom Ouattara has appointed as his prime
minister, has called on citizens to continue to disobey the
government until Gbagbo cedes the presidency. He has also
demanded that foreign powers use force to oust the incumbent.  Calls for Assistance  Simon Munzu, chief of the UN mission’s human rights
department, said he received 300 calls a day “on average” from
people asking for assistance since the Dec. 16 protest march was
quashed by security forces.  “These figures are in relation to the cases we have
verified, but just on the basis of cases reported there may be
many more,” Munzu said in an interview.  The election vote was meant to end eight years of division
in the world’s top cocoa grower, where rebels complaining of
discrimination by Gbagbo’s elite captured the northern half of
the West African nation.  Mercenaries, probably from Liberia and Angola, have been
recruited to help Gbagbo’s cause,  Alain LeRoy , head of UN
peacekeeping operations, said on Dec. 21.  In some instances, security forces work alongside “heavily
armed English-speaking individuals claiming to be Liberian,” UN
mission spokesman Hamadoun Touré told reporters today.  Human rights investigators have been unable to check other
allegations of abuses, including reports of mass graves, because
the security forces and youth groups loyal to Gbagbo stymied
their movements, Kang said.  More than 6,000 people have fled Ivory Coast since Dec. 3,
with the vast majority entering neighboring Liberia, she said.  The state-owned Radio Television Ivorienne and some private
newspapers are being used by Gbagbo’s supporters to “incite
hatred and violence among the population and to disseminate
false and inflammatory information against the United Nations,”
Kang said, adding that this violates international criminal law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 