-- Ivory Coast Cocoa Smuggled Into Ghana as Political Crisis Hampers Industry
-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 2010-12-23T16:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/ivory-coast-cocoa-smuggled-into-ghana-as-political-crisis-hampers-industry.html
Higher cocoa prices paid to farmers
in Ghana and political instability in Ivory Coast has reversed a
smuggling trend between the world’s top two producers of the
chocolate ingredient that cut Ghana’s official output last
season.  Between 75,000 and 100,000 metric tons of cocoa have been
smuggled to Ghana from Ivory Coast since the 2010-11 harvest
began on Oct. 1, Steven Haws, an analyst with New York-based
 Commodities Risk Analysis , said in an interview from the city on
Dec. 21. Between 30,000 and 50,000 tons has been smuggled into
Ghana,  Jonathan Parkman , joint head of agriculture at Marex
Financial Ltd., said in an interview from London, where the
company is based, yesterday.  In times of high international prices, cocoa farmers in
 Ghana , where fixed prices are paid for beans, seek better
earnings in markets with fewer controls such as neighboring
 Ivory Coast .  This season, “roadblocks, lawlessness and delays raise the
transport costs of bringing cocoa to the ports of Abidjan and
San Pedro” in Ivory Coast, Haws said in a separate e-mailed
response to questions. The shift has resulted in the rise in the
illegal trade from Ivory Coast to Ghana.  The Ghana Cocoa Board, which regulates the industry in the
world’s second-largest grower of the beans, said Sept. 28 it
would increase prices paid to Ghanaian farmers by 33 percent to
3,200 cedis ($2,169) per ton. Ivory Coast’s average farmgate
price for the week ending Dec. 12 was 850 CFA francs ($1.69) per
kilogram, or $1,690 per ton, according to the country’s cocoa
and coffee exchange, which is based in Abidjan. Cocoa for march
delivery rose 1.9 percent to 2,048 pounds ($3,154) a ton as of
4:13 p.m. local time on London’s Liffe exchange.  Refusal to Cede  Ivory Coast’s  Laurent Gbagbo  has refused to cede power to
rival  Alassane Ouattara , who was named winner of a Nov. 28 vote
by the country’s electoral commission and has support from the
U.S., United Nations, European Union and former colonial ruler
France. Gbagbo has the backing of the army after the
Constitutional Council dismissed the vote count in some northern
areas, where Ouattara draws much of his support, and named him
as victor.  Ghana’s higher price had begun to reverse the flow of
illegal cocoa smuggling in the region even before Ivory Coast’s
disputed vote, Haws said.  Ghana lost about 100,000 tons of beans to smuggling during
the 2009-10 season, worth $300 million, Alhaji Dramani Egala,
deputy chief executive officer of the  Ghana Cocoa Board , said
Aug. 27. The cocoa harvest year in both Ivory Coast and Ghana
typically begins in October.  ‘Finding Buyers’  “I think it’s pretty clear up until recently that the
economic benefit of moving cocoa from the Ivory Coast to Ghana
has been significant, with the recent political turmoil it’s
become even more significant,” Marex’s Parkman said. “At the
moment, moving cocoa, even finding buyers around Abidjan has
become difficult.”  Ivorian cocoa may not meet Ghana’s quality standards, Haws
said.  “When cocoa is smuggled from Ivory Coast, it is common
that Ivorian and Ghanaian beans are mixed to just barely pass
the more stringent Ghanaian specifications,” he said.  “Ghana cocoa is of premium quality and we wouldn’t want
any Ivorian cocoa,”  Tony Fofie , chief executive officer of the
the cocoa board, said in an interview from his mobile phone
yesterday, denying that there has been a surge in smuggling.  The Accra-based board has raised its production forecast
for 2010-11 by 14 percent to 800,000 tons, Fofie said, citing an
“increase in yields from very good rainfall and some of the
programs we’ve put in place” to improve growing practices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason McLure  in Accra on 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 