-- Ivory Coast Eurobonds Drop, Extending Record Yields, Over Default Concerns
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-12-23T15:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/ivory-coast-eurobonds-drop-extending-record-yields-over-default-concern.html
Ivory Coast’s Eurobonds fell for a
sixth day, extending record-high yields, as uncertainty grew
over whether the world’s biggest cocoa producer would service
its debt during a violent power struggle following an election.  Ivory Coast has been embroiled in a political stand-off
between  Laurent Gbagbo , the president of a decade, and  Alassane Ouattara , the United Nations-backed winner of the Nov. 28
election. In a week of political violence as Gbagbo refuses to
accept defeat, 173 people died, the UN said today.  West African ministers today discussed whether to cut
Laurent Gbagbo’s access to foreign reserves held at the Central
Bank of West African States, or BCEAO, a move which could push
him to use existing funds to pay the army and civil servants as
he clings on to power, triggering concern that the country may
default on a $29 million interest payment due Dec. 31.  “If Ivory Coast defaults on its Eurobond interest
payments, index investors will start selling,”  Phillip Blackwood , head of emerging markets at Sydbank A/S, Denmark’s
fourth-largest bank, said in an interview from Aarhus today,
referring to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index, which gauges
the extra yield investors demand to hold emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries. “Knowing this, other non-index investors
anticipating the move will do so beforehand.” Blackwood manages
$2.7 billion in funds.  The 2.5 percent dollar-denominated bonds retreated as
investors bid 42.5 cents on the dollar for the notes due
December 2032, down from a close of 44.88 yesterday, as of 1:31
p.m. in Abidjan, the commercial capital, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The decline to the lowest since the bonds
were issued drove the yield to a record 15.038 percent from a
close of 14.301 percent yesterday.  The BCEAO is reviewing a request by Ouattara to give him
signing powers over Ivory Coast’s account at the bank. Ivory
Coast is part of the West African Monetary Union, which is
managed by the BCEAO.  Ivory Coast has a 30-day grace period to make its interest
payment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  