-- Jo-Ann Stores to Be Bought by Leonard Green for $1.6 Billion, $61 a Share
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2010-12-23T21:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/jo-ann-stores-to-be-bought-by-leonard-green-for-1-6-billion-61-a-share.html
  Jo-Ann Stores Inc . agreed to be
acquired by an affiliate of Leonard Green & Partners LP for $1.6
billion to accelerate expansion of the largest U.S. fabric
retailer.  The cash offer of $61 a share was 34 percent higher than
yesterday’s closing price of $45.63, Hudson, Ohio-based Jo-Ann
Stores said today in a statement. The board can solicit other
proposals through Feb. 14.  Going private will enable Jo-Ann Stores to expand faster
and boost its share of fabric and craft sales, Chief Executive
Officer Darrell Webb said in the statement.  “Remodeling and opening new stores are helping drive
revenue at a more profitable rate,” said Brad Thomas, an
analyst at Keybanc Capital Markets Inc. in  New York . Jo-Ann
Stores “has a lot of components attractive to private equity,”
including no debt, he said in a telephone interview.    Leonard Green  is paying about 7.8 times Jo-Ann Stores’
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
over the past four quarters, about the same multiple as the
median takeover of a U.S. retailer in the past 12 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  3G Capital, an investment firm backed by Brazilian
billionaires, paid about 8.8 times trailing EBITDA for Burger
King Holdings Inc., and J. Crew Group Inc. is fetching 8.1 times
trailing EBITDA in its buyout, the data show.  Jo-Ann Stores advanced $14.56, or 32 percent, to $60.19 at
4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have climbed 66 percent this year.  No Debt  The retailer operates 756 U.S. stores and competes with
Baldwyn, Missouri-based Hancock Fabrics Inc. and Michaels Stores
Inc. Jo-Ann Stores had no outstanding debt at the end of the
third quarter ended Oct. 30. Cash totaled $112.4 million at the
end of the quarter, $14.7 million more than a year earlier, the
company said Dec. 1.  Jo-Ann Stores today boosted its full-year per-share
earnings forecast to $3.35 to $3.45 from an earlier projection
of $3.20 to $3.35. It told analysts in August it planned to
accelerate store openings next year after new units generated
higher sales.  Los Angeles-based Leonard Green has invested in 52
companies with a value of $44 billion since its founding in
1989, according to the firm’s website. Last month, the firm
agreed buy the J. Crew with TPG Capital for about $3 billion.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and
TCW/Crescent Mezzanine LLC committed financing for the
transaction.  Centerview Partners and JPMorgan are advising the Jo-Ann
Stores board, and Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and Thompson Hine LLP
are the legal counsels. Bank of America and Barclays Plc are
advising Leonard Green, which is getting legal counsel from
Sanders & Dempsey LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Chris Burritt  in Greensboro,  North Carolina , at   cburritt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  