-- JPMorgan, Alabama School Authority Reach Settlement on Derivative Lawsuit
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2010-12-23T22:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/jpmorgan-alabama-school-authority-reach-settlement-on-derivative-lawsuit.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and an  Alabama 
agency reached a settlement to end the state’s lawsuit to cancel
a derivative contract that threatened to cost it more than $122
million, according to a court filing and bond documents.  The Alabama Public School and College Authority, which
issues debt to finance construction, and the New York-based bank
sought to dismiss the suit yesterday because of the settlement.
Terms of the agreement weren’t disclosed in the court filings.  The authority paid $19 million to JPMorgan on Dec. 21 to
settle the case, Standard & Poor’s said today in a report. S&P
revised its outlook on the agency’s debt to stable from
negative, based on the agreement. No ruling has been posted in
the case, brought in U.S. District Court in Montgomery.  The Alabama agency sued the bank in 2008 to scrap the
derivative contract, set to take effect that year, as turmoil in
the U.S. credit markets led similar agreements to backfire,
saddling taxpayer-supported bond issuers with unexpected bills.
The agency may have owed  JPMorgan  more than $122 million if the
contract was upheld by the court, according to bond documents.  Justin Perras , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment.  Pat Haigler, Alabama’s debt manager, also wouldn’t comment
and referred questions on the case to Gina Smith, a spokeswoman
who didn’t immediately return a telephone call seeking comment.  The case is Alabama Public School and College Authority v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, 2:08-cv-00863-WKW-CSC, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of Alabama.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 