-- JPMorgan Loses Bid to Have Suits Dropped in Alabama County Sewer-Bond Case
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2010-12-23T21:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/jpmorgan-loses-bid-to-have-suit-on-alabama-county-debt-dropped.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. lost a bid to
have almost $800 million in legal claims from Syncora Guarantee
Inc. and  Assured Guaranty Ltd . dismissed in a case that revolves
around defaulted Jefferson County,  Alabama , sewer bonds.  New York Supreme Court Judge James Yates in  Manhattan 
rejected the move by the second-largest U.S. bank on Dec. 21,
saying there were sufficient facts to continue the case. The two
bond insurers sued to recover money paid out and to pay
potential claims on the Jefferson County debt.  Syncora and Assured took JPMorgan to court after a $3
billion refinancing of the sewer debt in 2002 and 2003, which
involved derivatives, collapsed during the credit crisis and
almost bankrupted the county. JPMorgan concealed that it won the
refinancing transaction with “bribes” of about $3 million
funneled to county commissioners through friends, the insurers
said. They also claimed the bank didn’t disclose a report saying
the sewer system wouldn’t be able to pay its debt.  “Plaintiff insurer could have reasonably concluded that
defendants’ alleged bribery practices were indicators that the
county’s affairs were being mismanaged if decisions were made on
this illegal basis,” Yates said in his decision.  The insurers said they wouldn’t have insured the debt if
JPMorgan had disclosed the purpose of the $3 million payments.    Justin Perras , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment.  Krebs Report  The bond insurers also said they were unaware of a 2003
report by Birmingham-based engineering firm Paul B. Krebs &
Associates Inc. that concluded the government lacked the money
to meet sewer-debt payments. The report, which came to light in
2009 during a receivership action against the county, warned
officials that they would need to raise sewer revenue by 89
percent and recommended the county take immediate action.  JPMorgan said it never received a copy of the Krebs report.  “Who received what and when cannot be established on the
face of the pleadings and is exactly the kind of inquiry
appropriate for discovery,” Yates wrote.  Syncora Guarantee insured about $1.2 billion of the sewer
debt and a $165 million surety policy. The company has paid $211
million in claims after the county defaulted on some of the debt
and expects to pay at least $205 million more, according to
court documents. Assured has paid out $4 million and may have to
pay $370 million more on its policies, the documents show.  The judged also dismissed a Jefferson County counterclaim
that alleged that the bond insurers breached their contract
because they failed to retain AAA credit ratings. Their
downgrades helped spark the broader credit crisis while also
leading investors to shun the sewer debt, the county claimed.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 