-- Junk-Rated Bonds May Offer `Equity-Like' Returns in 2011: New Issue Alert
-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-12-23T08:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/junk-rated-bonds-may-offer-equity-like-returns-in-2011-new-issue-alert.html
High-yield bonds may be a good
substitute for equities in 2011 as economic growth accelerates,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  High-yield, high-risk debt returns are expected to remain
highly correlated to those in the stock market for a second
year, wrote New-York-based JPMorgan’s  Peter Acciavatti . High-
yield, or junk, debt has returned 14.5 percent year-to-date on a
total-return basis, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch High Yield Master II index. The  S&P 500 index  is up 15.1
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We still believe high yield is an attractive way to play
the upside of a continued economic recovery while also
protecting against the downside of earnings and volatility
surprises,” Acciavatti wrote in a Dec. 10 report. “With lower
volatility and a higher position in the capital structure, many
investors have recognized ‘equity-like’ returns can be achieved
by including corporate credit in their portfolios as a
replacement for equities,” he wrote.  The U.S. economy grew at a 2.6 percent annual rate last
quarter, more than the government’s previous estimate of 2.5
percent and below the 2.8 percent median forecast from
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The Federal Reserve’s
preferred inflation gauge, which is tied to consumer spending
and excludes food and energy, rose at a  0.5 percent rate , the
slowest pace since records began in 1959.  The extra yield investors demand to own high-yield bonds
instead of Treasuries narrowed 5 basis points to 545 basis
points yesterday, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
High Yield Master II index. Absolute yields on the debt fell 2
basis points to 7.85 percent, the index data show.  Tightening Spreads  JPMorgan expects the spread to tighten to 515 basis points
at the end of 2011 as Treasury yields rise next year, Acciavatti
wrote. He didn’t return a telephone call seeking comment.  Yields on the 10-year Treasury note, the market bellwether,
surged to 3.35 percent, up  86 basis points  since Nov. 4, the day
after the Federal Reserve policy makers announced a plan to buy
$600 billion in government debt in an effort to stimulate the
economy.  High yield bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Investment-grade corporate bond spreads narrowed 1 basis
point to 168 basis points, while yields rose 2 basis points to
4.14 percent, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. Corporate Master Index.  There were no corporate bond sales in the U.S. yesterday,
Bloomberg data show.  The following is a description of at least $675 million of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  FIRST GULF BANK PJSC plans to sell five-year dollar-
denominated bonds that may yield between 3.25 percent and 3.5
percent, said three people familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. BNP Paribas
SA, Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and
National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC are arranging meetings with
investors, two people said on Nov. 1. The Abu Dhabi-based lender
is rated A2 by Moody’s.  TRANSNET LTD., South Africa’s state-owned ports, rail and
pipeline operator, said it may sell $1 billion worth of bonds in
international markets to pay for expansion. Transnet has 35.2
billion rand ($5 billion) of debt outstanding.  High Yield  IFH PERU LTD.  plans to add up to $100 million to its 8.625
percent 2019 bonds, according to two people with knowledge of
the sale. Barclays Capital and IM Trust are managing the sale.  MDA LENDING SOLUTIONS , the information- and settlement-
services provider to real estate lenders, may sell $175 million
of senior subordinated notes to help pay for its leveraged
buyout by TPG Capital, according to a Moody’s statement. The
MacDonald, Dettwiler & Associates Ltd. unit is also seeking $400
million of loans.  AFREN PLC , a U.K. oil and gas explorer focused on West
Africa, hired Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and BNP
Paribas SA to manage a sale of senior secured bonds in dollars,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. The company
will meet bond investors in Europe and the U.S., said the
people, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  CYRELA BRAZIL REALTY SA EMPREENDIMENTOS E PARTICIPACOES ,
Brazil’s biggest homebuilder, hired Banco do Brasil SA, Credit
Suisse Group AG, Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Morgan Stanley to
arrange bond investor meetings, according to a person familiar
with the matter. Cyrela will meet with investors in Asia, Europe
and the U.S., said the person, who declined to be identified
because the conversations are private. S&P raised its rating on
the company one step to BB on Sept. 30.  DELONG HOLDINGS LTD., a Singapore-based steel trader, hired
Credit Suisse Group AG to help it organize meetings with
investors ahead of an international sale of guaranteed senior
notes. Money raised will be used to redeem 5 percent convertible
bonds due 2012, to repay bank loans and for acquisitions
relating to iron ore and other raw materials used by the steel
industry, the company said in a statement to Singapore’s stock
exchange. The dollar-denominated notes were assigned a
provisional rating of B3 by Moody’s, the ratings company said in
a note.  FLAKEBOARD CO., the Canadian producer of fiberboard and
particleboard used to build furniture and countertops, plans to
sell $225 million of senior secured notes maturing in 2017, S&P
said in a statement. The ratings company grades the proposed
U.S. dollar-denominated debt as B, according to the statement.  PT ENERGI MEGA PERSADA , Indonesia’s second-biggest listed
oil company, hired Nomura Holdings Inc. to help it with a dollar
bond sale, according to a person familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  SI ORGANIZATION INC., the Lockheed Martin Corp. unit
formerly known as Enterprise Integration Group, may sell $175
million of senior subordinated notes, according to S&P. Proceeds
may be used with $340 million of bank debt and $370 million of
new common stock to pay for its acquisition by Veritas Capital,
S&P said.  Offerings in Pipeline  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP , the insurer rescued by the
U.S. government, is contemplating a new debt sale, a person
familiar with the matter said. The firm hasn’t considered a
timeline for when it might sell more bonds, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the terms aren’t set. AIG sold
$2 billion of bonds Dec. 1 in its first offering since it was
rescued by the U.S. government in 2008.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-controlled
lender to power projects, hired Credit Agricole CIB, Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc and Standard Chartered Plc to sell $500
million of bonds. Rural Electrification aims to price 5.5-year
notes to yield between 195 basis points and 200 basis points
more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries Finance Director Hari
Das Khunteta said in a telephone interview from New Delhi on
Nov. 10.  PTT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION PCL, Thailand’s only listed
oil and gas explorer, plans to sell bonds denominated in U.S.
dollars, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
PTT Exploration hired Barclays Plc to manage the sale, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Barclays is arranging a U.S. dollar-denominated medium-term note
program for the company, the person said.  PTA BANK , or Eastern and Southern African Trade and
Development Bank, hired HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Bank
Group Ltd. to arrange bond investor meetings in Europe and Asia,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. The meetings
will be held in Hong Kong, Singapore, Zurich, Geneva and London,
said the people, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. The company may sell dollar bonds after the
meetings, the people said.  MAQUINARIA ESPECIALIZADA MXO TRUST , a special-purpose
company expected to provide construction machinery services to
Corporacion GEO SAB de CV, hired Banco Santander SA to arrange
bond investor meetings, according to a person with knowledge of
the sale. A dollar bond sale may follow the meetings, to be held
in London, Boston, New York and Los Angeles, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  CREDIT BANK OF MOSCOW plans to sell five-year dollar bonds,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The sale of
Reg S securities is being arranged by Commerzbank AG, ING Groep
NV and Raiffeisen Bank International, the banker said.  DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, hired Morgan
Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to manage a planned $500
million bond sale, its chief executive officer said. The
offering, announced on the Qatar Exchange website, will be
marketed to investors in the U.S., Europe and the Middle East,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in an Oct. 20 telephone interview.  BELARUS may sell debt in the U.S. and Asia, according to
Finance Minister Andrei Kharkovets. “We will undoubtedly enter
the Asian and the American markets,” Kharkovets said in an Oct.
15 interview in Moscow, declining to comment on the timing of
possible sales.  GEORGIAN RAILWAY LLC, the former Soviet republic’s state-
owned rail company, is preparing a bond roadshow in the U.S.,
Giorgi Gagnidze, the company’s financial director, said in
comments broadcast on Rustavi-2 television.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
hasn’t decided on the size of the bond, he said.  TURKIYE IS BANKASI AS  hired JPMorgan Chase & Co., the Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc, Standard Bank Plc and Standard Chartered
to help find buyers for a planned bond sale during meetings in
the U.S. and Europe. Isbank made the announcement to the
Istanbul Stock Exchange after the market regulator approved a
sale of 1.45 billion liras ($1.03 billion) of bonds by the bank.
Isbank said the sale will be in dollars.  AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said.  JSW STEEL LTD. , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 Aharris48@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 