-- Karl Rove Wears Gingham Dress, Reagan Hugs Lamblike Glenn Beck
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2010-12-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/karl-rove-wears-gingham-dress-reagan-hugs-lamblike-glenn-beck.html
It’s hard to walk past the window of
Manhattan gallery  Mulherin Pollard Projects  without stopping to
admire  Karl Rove , dressed as Dorothy from “The Wizard of Oz.”  In a painting titled “Perfect Happiness,” the former
senior adviser to President  George W. Bush  wears a blue gingham
dress and ruby slippers as he (she?) stands in a lush nighttime
garden with one arm around the neck of a Bambi-like fawn.  The cheeky artwork by Canadian artist  Michael Caines  is
part of an exhibition that also depicts  Glenn Beck ,  Richard Nixon  and Kim Jong-Il (but no Canadians) as oddly garbed
creatures with oversized heads.  “I’ve been trying to understand American politics and
history,” said Caines, 46, in a telephone interview from his
studio in Brooklyn, New York. “The works are about my right to
assert my imaginative power.”  The show’s seven paintings and five drawings are skillful
executions that sometimes elicit a tender spirit with their
peculiar meld of 19th-century political cartoon and characters
from Fragonard, Goya and the John Tenniel illustrations of
“Alice in Wonderland.”  They aren’t eliciting much legal tender, however. A week
into the show, only one drawing had sold: An ink-on-paper
rendering of the gingham Rove.  “We couldn’t count on his previous collectors,” said
dealer Katharine Mulherin, who has worked with Caines since
1999. “I thought maybe we should target political comedians.”  One painting, “Little Lamb of the GOP,” depicts young
 Ronald Reagan  as Jesus cradling a little lamb with Glenn Beck’s
face. The two figures are set against the backdrop of purple
mountains and green sky.  Household Art  It’s a reworking of Del Parson’s “Lost Lamb” painting,
“that is probably found in most fundamentalist households in
America,” said Caines. So there’s another market niche
alienated.  The North Korean leader wears a ball gown straight out of
 Velazquez’s  “Las Meninas” in the drawing titled “Lil’ Kim.”
“Tea Party” portrays the late conservative U.S. Senator  Jesse Helms  with floppy ears and talk radio host “Dr.  Laura” Schlessinger  as the Mad Hatter.  “I don’t know how many people would want to have Glenn
Beck’s face or Ronald Reagan’s face in their home,” said
Caines, who leans politically to the left. “I would.”  Prices range from $1,200 to $1,400 for drawings and from
$5,000 to $10,000 for paintings. “Perfect Happiness” runs
through Dec. 31 at 317 Tenth Ave.; +1-212-967-0045;
 http://mulherinpollard.com .  ( Katya Kazakina  is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 