-- KKR-Controlled First Data May Escape Harm From Lower Fees, Analyst Says
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-12-23T22:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/kkr-controlled-first-data-may-escape-harm-from-lower-fees-analyst-says.html
First Data Corp. , the payments
processor controlled by KKR & Co., faces “generally neutral”
impact from new U.S. rules that may cut debit-card transaction
fees 84 percent, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  A potential drop in revenue that the Atlanta-based company
collects from retailers on the most profitable types of
transactions may be offset by increasing its share of total
fees, and by rules that may increase First Data’s ability to
compete against  Visa Inc. , the world’s biggest payments network,
wrote  Arun Seshadri , a Credit Suisse analyst.  “Overall, the impact to FDC appears generally neutral,”
Seshadri said in his Dec. 20 note to clients.  The Federal Reserve proposed earlier this month to cap so-
called interchange fees at 12 cents per transaction. Networks
now charge merchants an average of 1 percent of the purchase
price, regardless of cost, and pass that money to banks that
issue cards. The average debit interchange fee last year was
44 cents per transaction, or 1.14 percent of the purchase price,
according to a draft of the proposed rules.  Interchange is part of the  overall fees  First Data charges
merchants for electronic debit payments processing, the analyst
wrote. Even with the reduction in interchange fees, First Data
may be able to bolster revenue by increasing its share of the
total fees charged to merchants, Seshadri said.  Market Share  New rules may also curb exclusivity agreements, which may
help First Data improve its market share of 20 percent for
debit-card transactions done with personal identification
numbers, Seshadri’s report said.  Visa’s network  has half the
market, he wrote.  Revenue  may be reduced in other ways, Seshadri said.
Because the Fed rules don’t distinguish between debit
transactions authorized by PIN numbers and more lucrative
purchases authorized by signature, the regulation “could create
accelerated incentives for issuers as well as retailers to steer
more transactions to PIN, which is significantly less profitable
for FDC,” he wrote.  Chip Swearngan , a spokesman for  First Data , and Steven
Vames, a spokesman for Credit Suisse, declined to comment on the
report. First Data said Dec. 16 it was still assessing the
impact.  First Data’s $2.4 billion of 11.25 percent notes due in
March 2016 traded yesterday at 86 cents on the dollar, up from
79.5 cents on the dollar on Dec. 1, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 