-- Natural Gas Futures Decline in New York on Forecasts of Warmer Weather
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2010-12-23T14:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/natural-gas-futures-decline-in-new-york-on-forecasts-of-warmer-weather.html
Natural gas futures declined for the
second day in three on forecasts of warmer-than-normal weather
that may curb demand for the heating fuel.  Futures fell as temperatures may be as much as 14 degrees
Fahrenheit above normal in the Midwest next week, according to
MDA Federal Inc.’s EarthSat Energy Weather in Rockville,
Maryland. MDA predicted yesterday that temperatures would be 3
to 5 degrees Fahrenheit above normal in the region.  “Some of the warmer weather is having a little bit of a
negative effect on prices,” said  Peter Beutel , the president of
Cameron Hanover Inc. in New Canaan, Connecticut. “It’s probably
going to be a very quiet trading day today ahead of the
holiday.”  Natural gas for January delivery fell 5.3 cents, or 1.3
percent, to $4.099 per million British thermal units at 9:43
a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The futures have
declined 2 percent this month and 26 percent this year. Floor
trading on Nymex ends at 1:30 p.m. today and is closed tomorrow
for Christmas Eve.  Temperatures may be mostly normal along the East Coast next
week, MDA said. The company had yesterday predicted colder-than-
normal weather in the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic during that
period.  “The forecast has taken another step in the warmer
direction today, especially over the Midwest,” MDA forecasters
led by  Travis Hartman  said in a note to clients today.
“Guidance continues to come into better agreement on a major
warm up taking shape in advance of a storm system developing
over the Plains.”  Chicago Low  The low temperature in Chicago on Dec. 30 may be 28 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 2 Celsius), 10 degrees above normal, according
to  AccuWeather Inc.  in State College, Pennsylvania. The low
temperature in Minneapolis may be 20 degrees Fahrenheit, 14
degrees above normal.  Heating demand in the U.S. may be 1 percent below normal
from Dec. 29 through Jan. 2, according to Weather Derivatives in
Belton, Missouri.  About 52 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  Energy Department data released today may show a larger-
than-average withdrawal from gas inventories because of cold
weather last week in the eastern U.S. The department may
reporter a reduction in  stockpiles  of 180 billion cubic feet for
the week ended Dec. 17, according to the median of 19 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The five-year average withdrawal for the week is 136
billion, according to the department. Last year, 172 billion
cubic feet were taken out of storage.  Gas stockpiles will total 1.833 trillion cubic feet at the
end of the winter heating season in March, about 171 billion
cubic feet higher than at the end of March 2010, the department
said Dec. 7 in its  Short-Term Energy Outlook .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Buurma  in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  