-- Natural Gas May Rise in New York on Higher Heating Demand, Survey Shows
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2010-12-23T00:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/natural-gas-may-rise-in-new-york-on-higher-heating-demand-survey-shows.html
Natural gas futures may rise next
week as colder-than-normal weather may spark higher demand for
the heating fuel, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Ten of 20 analysts, or 50 percent, forecast that gas
futures will gain on the New York Mercantile Exchange through
Dec. 31. Five, or 25 percent, said futures will decline and five
predicted that prices will stay the same. Last week, 44 percent
of participants said gas prices would decrease.  Below-normal temperatures are likely in the eastern and
central U.S. in early January, according to the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration’s  Global Forecast System  weather
model. Heating demand in the U.S. from Dec. 28 through Jan. 1
may be 8 percent above normal, according to Weather Derivatives
in Belton, Missouri.  “While temperatures don’t look that cold compared with the
30-year norm, heating demand looks like it will run above the
five-year average over the next few weeks,” said  Tim Evans , an
energy analyst with Citi Futures Perspective in New York.  Natural gas for January delivery rose 8.6 cents, or 2.1
percent, to settle at $4.152 per million British thermal units
in the first three days of trading this week on the New York
exchange.  The cold weather will reduce the surplus of gas in storage
over the five-year average, “leaving the market vulnerable to
any additional cold periods over the balance of the winter,”
Evans said.  The low temperature in Chicago on Jan. 2 may be 13 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 11 Celsius), 4 degrees below normal, according
to  AccuWeather Inc.  in State College, Pennsylvania.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 48 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  10      5        5  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Buurma  in New York at 
 Cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  