-- New York Bill to Shield More Debtors in Bankruptcy Is Signed by Paterson
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-12-23T19:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/new-york-bill-to-shield-more-debtors-in-bankruptcy-is-favored-by-paterson.html
New York debtors in bankruptcy and
other court cases will be able to shield more assets from
lenders under a law signed by Governor  David Paterson .  “We think it’s a good bill,” Paterson said in an
interview today on New York City radio station  WOR.  “You don’t
want to leave a person destitute.”  The bill passed the Senate and the Assembly this year.
Paterson, 56, a Democrat who didn’t run for election this year,
leaves office at year-end.  The  measure  may make it harder for New York City to enforce
parking rules and collect unpaid tickets, according to a July
letter from Mayor  Michael Bloomberg . The city will seek to amend
it to solve that problem, said a spokesman for the mayor.  “I understand from legislators and advocacy groups that
have supported this bill that they are fully committed to
addressing the concerns raised by New York City and others,”
Paterson said in a statement announcing the bill’s signing.  The law increases the dollar value of some exemptions for
the first time since the 19th century, and raises others to
levels that would help debtors live without government
assistance, said Charles Juntikka, a New York City lawyer who
represents debtors.  Most lenders seeking judgments that could allow property
seizures are credit card banks, Juntikka said.  Under the new law, debtors can retain vehicles valued as
much as $4,000 above an associated loan, up from $2,400. They
also may keep a home with equity of $75,000 to $150,000,
depending on location, up from $50,000. Home equity is the  value
of a home , less mortgages.  Ranked 29th  New York’s previous $50,000 limit ranked 29th among states
and wasn’t high enough to allow debtors to keep their homes,
said David Cohen, a professor at Pace University’s law school in
White Plains, New York, and a proponent of the bill.  The increased exemptions will hurt the state economy by
causing a “further contraction in credit availability” as
banks tighten lending standards, said a  memorandum  submitted to
lawmakers on behalf of the New York Bankers Association by the
Albany office of law firm Wilson, Elser, Moskowitz, Edelman &
Dicker LLP.  Bloomberg’s letter said the bill “creates enormous new
hurdles for marshals and Department of Finance deputy sheriffs
who tow cars to collect unpaid parking tickets.”  Towing as Incentive  The city tows 120,000 vehicles a year, creating a
“powerful incentive” for paying parking tickets, the letter
said. Debt collectors “lack the capability or bandwidth to
research” the value of cars and associated loans before towing,
it said.  “We will be working with the Assembly for passage of an
amendment” to eliminate obstacles to towing cars of parking
scofflaws, said  Marc Lavorgna , a spokesman for the mayor. A
similar amendment passed the Senate earlier this year, he said.  Banks should be more “stringent” in their lending,
Paterson said in the interview today. “If this causes the
lenders to be more careful, we’re very happy with that
outcome.”  Mayor Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  