-- New York City on Alert for Holiday Terror Attacks, Police Chief Kelly Says
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-12-23T18:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/new-york-city-on-alert-for-holiday-terror-attacks-police-chief-kelly-says.html
New York is “on alert” for
possible terrorist attacks during the holiday season, although
there is no information about specific threats to the largest
U.S. city, Police Commissioner  Raymond W. Kelly  said.  The police department is taking additional steps to protect
the city, such as deploying about 1,200 recruits graduating next
week to the area around  Times Square  for New Year’s Eve, Kelly
told reporters today following a promotion ceremony at police
headquarters in Manhattan.  “We have no specific information, but we’re on alert,”
Kelly said. “We’re watching indicators that we normally watch.
We’re watching them closely, but there’s no indication of a
specific threat to this city at this time.”  About 92.3 million U.S. travelers will travel 50 miles or
more away from home during the year-end holiday season, a
3.1 percent increase from 2009, AAA, the nation’s biggest
motoring organization, said earlier this month.  Dozens of Amtrak and NYPD officers, some with bulletproof
vests and bomb-sniffing dogs, were patrolling Manhattan’s
Pennsylvania Station, the busiest U.S. train facility, this
morning.  U.S. law enforcement and intelligence agencies are
increasing their vigilance to head off any terrorist threats to
the U.S. during the holidays,  John Brennan , President  Barack Obama ’s chief counterterrorism adviser, said yesterday.  The government has fixed the failings that let a Nigerian
man,  Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab , board a U.S.-bound plane with
explosive material concealed in his underwear last Christmas,
Brennan said at a White House briefing. The Yemen branch of al-
Qaeda took responsibility for the failed bombing attempt.  Al-Qaeda Plot  Iraqi authorities have provided information obtained from
captured insurgents about an al-Qaeda attack planned against the
U.S. during the holiday season, a U.S. official said Dec. 15.
The official said the insurgents didn’t provide any other
details about the timing or the nature of any planned attack.  “Quite frankly there’s always a possibility of having an
attack here,” Kelly said. “We’re on the top of the terrorist
target list. That’s the world in which we live. This is not new
news for us, the fact that there may be something happening, or
planned to happen here.”  The commissioner said package bombs that exploded at the
Swiss and Chilean embassies in Rome today, injuring two
employees, are probably linked to anarchists and “ongoing
turmoil” over economic conditions in Europe.  Much of the intelligence information that the department
receives about potential attacks is general in nature and can’t
be characterized as threats from homegrown terrorists or
international groups, said Kelly, who urged New Yorkers to go
about their business.  “That’s our message,” Kelly said. “We’re doing
everything that we reasonably can do to keep the city safe and
so far, so good. There are no guarantees, but I think we’re
certainly doing more than any other city that I’m aware of. All
indications are that it will be a safe and happy holiday.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 