-- New Zealand Economy to Get Lift From Quake Rebuilding, Rugby Fans in 2011
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-12-23T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/new-zealand-economy-to-get-lift-from-rebuilding-rugby-in-2011.html
New Zealand’s economy will likely
rebound from the verge of a recession and expand next year,
buoyed by earthquake reconstruction and a tourism boost from the
Rugby World Cup.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.2 percent in the third
quarter, as the Sept. 4 temblor damaged houses, businesses and
roads, Statistics New Zealand said in Wellington yesterday.
Finance Minister  Bill English  said the recovery won’t be
derailed, citing falling unemployment and rising prices for
commodity exports.  Rebuilding work after the magnitude 7 earthquake rocked
Christchurch city is underpinning demand and helping prevent a
recession, economists said. Another catalyst may be the  rugby
tournament ’s 85,000 visitors next year to the country of 4.4
million and an estimated NZ$500 million ($372 million) in
 tourism spending  in the second half of 2011.  “The Rugby World Cup is going to have a significant
positive impact on growth in the third quarter and thereafter,”
said  Helen Kevans , economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co in Sydney.
“Positives on the radar” include reconstruction, strong
economic growth for New Zealand’s trading partners and elevated
commodity prices, she said.  After the GDP report, Kevans said she changed her outlook
for the next interest-rate increase by Reserve Bank of New
Zealand Governor  Alan Bollard  to June from March.  Bollard on Dec. 9 kept the official cash rate at 3 percent
and said it was “prudent” to keep borrowing costs low until
the recovery became more robust.  Currency’s Effects  New Zealand’s currency has fallen 1.6 percent against the
U.S. dollar in the past month, which may support demand for
exports, which make up 30 percent of the economy. The currency,
up about 6 percent in the past year, bought 74.38 U.S. cents at
5:45 p.m. yesterday after falling as low as 73.86 cents
immediately after the GDP report.  In the third quarter, the production-based measure of GDP
was hurt by a contraction in manufacturing and homebuilding
while farm and mining output also declined, yesterday’s report
showed.  Growth  was also led lower by a decline in exports, while
consumer spending rose for a sixth quarter after a surge in
demand for electrical goods and furniture immediately before the
Oct. 1 increase in the sales tax.  Still, the cleanup work may accelerate, and the boost from
the Rugby World Cup is starting before fans arrive.  Stadium Work  The city of Auckland, New Zealand’s largest by population,
has invested NZ$240 million to build new stands and transport
facilities at Eden Park, which will seat 60,000 people at the
World Cup final. The southern city of Dunedin has invested
NZ$130 million in a new stadium, employing as many as 600 people.  Prices for commodity exports rose 4.5 percent to a record
in November, according to an  index  calculated by ANZ National
Bank Ltd.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. , the world’s largest
dairy exporter, this month raised its forecast payment to New
Zealand farmers by 4.5 percent, citing rising international
prices and improving global demand.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
on Dec. 13 said its leading indicator rose to the highest in
four months in October as faster growth in China and the U.S.
offset signs of slowdowns in Brazil and India.  In New Zealand, the economy has probably grown only
modestly this quarter, said  Craig Ebert , senior markets
economist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington, who lowered
his prediction to 0.3 percent from 0.5 percent.  ‘Pushed Forward’  “We see enough in the confidence-type and other
indicators to think that the economy pushed forward,” he said.  Business confidence  was little changed near a five-month
high this month as expectations for hiring and investment
improved, according to an ANZ National Bank survey of 486
companies published Dec. 16.  The average annual growth rate is likely to accelerate to
3.4 percent in 2011, from a 1.7 percent pace this year, Ebert
forecast before yesterday’s third-quarter figures. Average
growth was 1.4 percent in the year through September,
yesterday’s report showed.  ““I am quite confident the economy will build momentum in
2011 and beyond,” English said in an e-mailed statement.  Unemployment  was 6.4 percent in the third quarter, down
from 6.9 percent the previous three months and little changed
from 6.5 percent in the same period a year earlier, the
statistics agency said Nov. 4.  One potential drag on growth may be a drought in parts of
the North Island, including Waikato, the largest dairy region.
Milk output has fallen 4.7 percent on the North Island this
month compared with December last year, Fonterra said on Dec. 16.  New Zealand’s economy shrank last quarter for the first
time since the first three months of 2009, which was the end of
five straight quarterly contractions as the global credit crisis
contributed to the nation’s worst recession in three decades.  The RBNZ has estimated the cost of earthquake rebuilding
will be at least NZ$5 billion ($3.7 billion) spread mainly over
2011 and 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  