-- New York City, Northeast May Get Storm After Christmas, Forecasters Say
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2010-12-23T16:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/new-york-city-northeast-may-get-storm-after-christmas-forecasters-say.html
New York and much of the U.S.
Northeast are expected to have a dry and mild Christmas,
followed by the arrival of the weather system that dumped as
much as 2 feet of rain in California.  Forecasters are tracking the system, which also dropped as
much as 17 feet (5.2 meters) of snow in the Sierra Nevada
mountain range. The storm may reach New York Dec. 26.
Forecasters aren’t sure how strong it will be by then.  “Right now there is still low confidence but the risk is
certainly there for something major,” said Travis Hartman,
energy weather manager at  MDA EarthSat Weather  in Rockville,
Maryland. “With that being said, I am leaning toward less than
what some of the hypes are out there for a crippling storm.”  The storm has prompted winter storm warnings and watches
across Colorado, Utah, New Mexico and Arizona, according to the
National Weather Service. The storm pounded California for
almost a week and resulted in Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger 
declaring a state of emergency in six counties there yesterday.  Travelers in the middle of the country may have to contend
with weather problems before Christmas, while those on the East
Coast will have the most trouble after the Dec. 25 holiday, said
 Tom Kines , senior expert meteorologist with commercial
forecaster  AccuWeather Inc.  in State College, Pennsylvania.  Midwest Snow  Kines said storms will probably drop 3 to 6 inches of snow
across the Midwest from South Dakota to West Virginia in the
next two days.  “Most of this system will miss the big cities of Chicago,
Detroit, Cleveland and Cincinnati,” Kines said.  In terms of heating, December has been cooler than normal
in the Northeast, according to weather service heating degree
days values. The value from Central Park this month has been
694, or 121 above normal.  The value, calculated by subtracting the daily average
temperature from a base of 65 degrees, is designed to show
energy demand, according to the weather service. The higher the
value, the cooler the weather, and thus the more energy probably
being used to heat homes and business.  In Boston it is 693 or 58 above normal; it is 976 in
Chicago, or 190 above normal and 693 in Philadelphia or 110
above normal, according to the weather service.  Natural Gas  Natural gas for January delivery fell 5.2 cents, or 1.3
percent, to $4.10 per million British thermal units after the
Energy Department said U.S. stockpiles dropped 184 billion cubic
feet last week to 3.368 trillion at 10:30 a.m. Gas was trading
at $4.08 before the report.  As of 11 a.m., there weren’t any air traffic delays in the
U.S., according to the Federal Aviation Administration website.  Computer simulations don’t agree on what the storm will do
after Christmas once it reaches the U.S. East Coast, Hartman
said. A model developed in Europe “has been consistently
bullish for a major storm,” he said.  Two others, from Canada and the U.S., show the storm
tracking farther out in the Atlantic, meaning there won’t be as
much snow, Hartman said.  Now that the storm is moving over land, the models should
be more accurate, said  Charlie Foley , a weather service
forecaster in  Taunton, Massachusetts .  “They can get denser and better data over land than when
it was out over the Pacific,” Foley said. “It still stands
that it is unclear; it has the potential to be a big hit or a
big miss.”  Tomorrow and Christmas Day will be calm and dry in New York
and much of the Northeast, said Joe Pollina, a weather service
meteorologist in  Upton, New York .  Pollina said the storm needs to be watched.  “Stay tuned for updates,” Pollina said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 