-- New Jersey's Pension-Funding Deficit Climbs More Than 17% to $53.9 Billion
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-12-23T20:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/new-jersey-s-pension-funding-deficit-climbs-more-than-17-to-53-9-billion.html
New Jersey ’s pension-funding deficit
increased by $8.05 billion, or 18 percent, this year to $53.9
billion as the state failed to make contributions.  The unfunded pension liability was $45.8 billion as of June
2009. New Jersey also faces an unfunded liability of $66.8
billion for providing medical care to retired public employees,
the treasury department said in a statement today.  “Unchecked, the cost of this impossible burden will fall
not just on the taxpayers of today, but on future generations,”
Treasurer  Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff  said in the statement. “It’s
crucial that we act now to protect public-worker pensions and
retirement benefits, as well as the state’s ability to fund
critical services.”  Twenty U.S. states, including New Jersey, California and
Illinois, skipped or underfunded their pensions from 2007 to
2009, Chicago-based Loop Capital Markets said in an October
report. Skipped funding and investment losses left 91 of 145
retirement systems that Loop studied below the 80 percent of
future benefits that actuaries recommend.  New Jersey’s pension deficit is also the result of
investment losses amid the economic slump and lawmakers’
expansion of pension benefits without identifying funds to pay
for them, said Andrew Pratt, a spokesman for the treasurer.  Action Urged  Governor  Chris Christie , a first-term Republican, proposed
measures in September to pare down the deficit. His plan would
freeze cost-of-living adjustments, roll back a 9 percent pension
benefit increase enacted in 2001, raise the retirement age to 65
and increase workers’ required payments to 8.5 percent of their
salaries from 5.5 percent. The Democratic-controlled Legislature
has not approved the measures.  Kevin Roberts, a spokesman for Christie, said without the
governor’s changes the pension deficit will grow to $125 billion
by 2026 and $181 billion by 2041. Even with full contributions
over the past decade, the system still would have a deficit,
Roberts said.  “This report underscores the need for serious reform to
the system,” Roberts said in an interview. “We have a benefits
problem, both the governor and Senate president have made that
clear. And without a change we run the risk of a pension not
being there for folks who are counting on it, which is not an
acceptable option.”  Payments Missed  Christie skipped a $3 billion pension payment this fiscal
year, saying he wouldn’t put money into a “broken system”
until his overhaul is approved. His full plan would whittle the
deficit to about $14 billion over 15 years, assuming the state
makes all contributions, he said in September.  The last time New Jersey contributed to the pension fund
was in fiscal 2008, when former Governor  Jon Corzine , a one-term
Democrat, paid $1 billion.  The state Treasury’s Investment Division manages money for
seven pension plans, which provide benefits to 728,000 working
and retired teachers, police officers and government employees.  As of June 30, New Jersey’s pension system was 62 percent
funded, according to the treasury department’s statement. That’s
down from 66 percent a year earlier.  The market value of New Jersey’s pension assets increased
to $70.5 billion as of June 30, from $66.2 billion as year
earlier. The fund was  valued  at more than $82 billion as of June
2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum in New York at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 