-- New ‘Nutcracker’, Talib Kweli, Taymor’s ‘Flute’: N.Y. Weekend
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2010-12-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/new-nutcracker-talib-kweli-taymor-s-flute-n-y-weekend.html
Watch polar bears dance, three boys
fly on a great bird and the wicked Queen of the Night get really
riled up: “The vengeance of hell boils in my heart!”  The Metropolitan Opera is offering a 100-minute, English
language version of the  Julie Taymor  production of Mozart’s
“Magic Flute” tonight with Russell Thomas,  Nathan Gunn  and
Erika Miklosa heading up the cast.  As you may have heard, Taymor is currently trying to work
out a few kinks in a little Broadway project featuring Spider-
Man.  Lincoln Center, Broadway at 64th St. Information: +1-212-
362-6000;  http://www.metoperafamily.org .  Christmas Eve Service  Join the congregation at the Church of Saint Mary the
Virgin to celebrate good tidings.  Founded to preserve the Catholic tradition within the
Episcopal Church, it’s fondly known as “Smoky Mary’s” owing to
the copious use of incense.  James Kennerley is the great organist here, playing the
noble Aeolian-Skinner instrument and leading the music program,
which tonight features the Mass in G minor by Ralph Vaughan
Williams, John Tavener’s “The Lamb,” and “A Spotless Rose”
by Herbert Howells.  Christmas music and carols begin at 10:30 p.m., and the
Procession and Solemn Pontifical Mass get underway at 11 p.m.  145 W. 46th St. Information: +1-212-869-5830;
 http://www.stmvirgin.org .  Saturday  “Rock over and bite.” That’s excellent advice for those
taking to the ice for a round of communal skating.  An intimate little rink famously sits at the center of
Rockefeller Center, watched over by a recumbent and gilded
Prometheus.  Now when you perform your toe loops and double axels, the
giant Norway spruce, shimmering with five miles of LED lights,
towers above you in all its Christmas glory.  Can’t skate? Lessons and rentals are available.  Fifth Ave. between 49th and 50th St. Information: +1-212-
332-7654;  http://www.rockefellercenter.com .  Stroll over to Le Parker Meridien’s Knave cafe for some hot
chocolate and cookies.  While there, admire the lobby exhibit of spiffy gingerbread
creations cooked up by local bakers.  They’re based on movies shot in New York, and include the
Buttercup Bakeshop West Side’s take on “Big,” Tribeca Treats
riffing on “Ghostbusters” and Norma’s tribute to “King
Kong.”  Vote for your favorite with a $1 donation. All proceeds go
to  City Harvest , which feeds the hungry.  119 W. 56th St. Information: +1-212-245-5000;
 http://www.parkermeridien.com .  Saturday Afternoon  Pay a visit to Ida and Gus and watch them play with their
big polar bear toys at the Central Park Zoo. There’s an
underwater vantage point so you can watch them romp with giant
tubes.  Harbor seals get fed at 2:15 and 4:15 p.m., while gentoo,
chinstrap and king penguins get their fish at 2:30 p.m.  Don’t miss the newest exhibit -- Zoe the snow leopard, one
of the world’s most critically endangered big cats.  64th St. and Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-439-6500;
 http://www.centralparkzoo.com .  Saturday Evening  Feast on fish yourself at  Le Bernardin . Chef Eric Ripert is
offering a special holiday truffle tasting menu, which begins
with slivers of fluke, moves through sea scallops, warm Dodge
Cove oysters, halibut and yellowfin kingfish, before the
climactic baked lobster.  Accompanying truffles come foamed, emulsified and shaved
into vinaigrette, broth and bordelaise sauce.  Reserve a spot in the Salon if you also crave venison with
foie gras.  155 W. 51st St. Information: +1-212-554-1515.  Sunday  Catch a performance of the brand-new “Nutcracker,” fresh
from the creative brain of Alexei Ratmansky, American Ballet
Theatre’s artist in residence.  Largely faithful to the E.T.A. Hoffmann story and
Tchaikovsky’s glorious score, the choreographer has darkened
some aspects of the ballet. The Mouse King and his band of
rodents are really scary!  And the snowflake scene has become a cold Russian blizzard
that batters the children.  At the  Brooklyn Academy of Music  Sunday at 1 p.m. and 5:30
p.m., “The Nutcracker” runs through Jan. 2. Information: +1-
718-636-4100;  http://www.abt.org .  Sunday Night  Hit the Highline Ballroom for Talib Kweli who will no doubt
be “bangin’ on your eardrum” with guests Jean Grae, Strong Arm
Steady, Pete Rock and DJ K-Salaam.  The Brooklyn-born rapper rose to prominence with Black
Star, his collaboration with  Mos Def , and has garnered truck-
loads of praise from hip-hop heavy-hitters Jay-Z and  Kanye West .  Socially conscious yet still banging, Kweli’s verses will
help shake off holiday overindulgence.  431 W. 16th St. Information: +1-212-414-5994;
 http://www.highlineballroom.com .  Post-show, head into the heart of the Meatpacking District
and grab a drink at multi-level  Brass Monkey .  55 Little W. 12th St. Information: +1-212-675-6686.  (With assistance from  Catherine Smith  and  Lili Rosboch .
 Zinta Lundborg  is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 