-- New Jersey's Xanadu to be Taken Over by Mall of America Owner Triple Five
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2010-12-23T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/new-jersey-s-meadowlands-complex-will-be-revamped-by-mall-of-america-owner.html
Triple Five, owner of the Mall of
America in Minnesota, will take over development of New Jersey’s
stalled Meadowlands Xanadu shopping and entertainment complex as
lenders seek to revive the project.  Triple Five signed a letter of intent with the lender group
under a plan that is supported by New Jersey Governor Chris
Christie, according to a joint statement today. Creditors took
control of the project in August from a group led by Colony
Capital LLC after delays in construction.  Earlier owners invested about $2 billion in the complex,
which sits about 10 miles west of Manhattan near New Jersey’s
Meadowlands sports complex, home of the National Football
League’s New York Giants and New York Jets. The announcement is
the first move toward the lenders’ goal of having the complex
“open and flourishing” in advance of the 2014 NFL Super Bowl,
which will be played at the New Meadowlands Stadium.  “A successful entertainment destination will attract
millions of locals and tourists to the area, create jobs and
generate substantial tax revenues,” Paul Ghermezian, senior
vice president of Triple Five, said in the statement.  Triple Five plans to make design changes to the system of
rectangular, blue interlocking blocks that make up Xanadu’s
exterior shell, Maureen Hooley Bausch, a spokeswoman for the
Alberta-based company, said in a telephone interview today.  Interior Redesign  Bausch, who declined to provide financial details of the
deal, said the complex will also undergo an interior redesign
and is targeted to open in 2013 or 2014. She said initial plans
are to include all aspects of the original design, such as the
ski slope and Ferris wheel, though a final decision hasn’t been
made. More details will be released next year, the company said.  Triple Five was in the first round of bidders on the
project when then-Governor James McGreevey’s administration
began the process. It was rejected because its plan included
housing, Bausch said.  The complex has been plagued by delays since construction
began more than five years ago. Colony, led by billionaire
 Thomas J. Barrack , took the project in 2006 from Mills Corp.,
the original developer, after Mills ran out of money.  Construction stalled after the September 2008 bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which had financed the project,
left lenders unable to meet obligations, Santa Monica,
California-based Colony said in an August statement.  “Today’s announcement follows an intensive and thorough
process to select a developer that has the track record and
expertise necessary to maximize the value of this development
for all stakeholders,” Michael Beckerman, a spokesman for the
lender group, said in the statement.  Triple Five’s Mall of America is country’s biggest retail
and entertainment complex, according to its website. The company
owns and operates most of the non-retail venues in its shopping
centers, including amusement parks, aquariums, miniature golf
courses, hockey rinks, movie theaters and hotels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 Pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  