-- NFL’s MVP Isn’t Named Michael Vick or Tom Brady: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-12-23T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/nfl-s-mvp-isn-t-michael-vick-or-tom-brady-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
The National Football League’s Most
Valuable Player Award will in all likelihood go to one of two
quarterbacks,  Tom Brady  of the New England Patriots or  Michael Vick  of the Philadelphia Eagles.  Both are deserving, especially if the decision is based on
statistics -- numbers and nothing else.  But touchdown passes, though important, aren’t valuable
enough these days. And especially not this season, which
represents a clear line of demarcation in how the NFL copes with
concussions.  In the new-and-improved NFL, where player safety is
supposed to trump everything else -- even the outdated locker-
room mores of what it means to be macho -- there’s something
more important than accumulating statistics: acting sensibly.  And no player, not Vick with 28 touchdowns, nor Brady with
32, has demonstrated more good sense than Green Bay Packers wide
receiver  Donald Driver , who cared enough about his dazed and
confused quarterback to remind  Aaron Rodgers  that no football
game is worth jeopardizing his health.  Even with the Packers fighting for a playoff spot Driver
put winning second.  He brought a much-needed dose of perspective during Green
Bay’s Dec. 12 game in Detroit, where Rodgers, also discussed as
a possible MVP, went to the sideline after absorbing punishing
hits on back-to-back plays.  Head Case  Driver noticed that his quarterback didn’t look quite
right. But the defense was on the field, giving Rodgers time to
clear any cobwebs. Sometimes a competitor’s worst enemy is
himself. And even if Rodgers was inclined to play it safe,
there’s pressure from coaches and teammates who, just like him,
have toiled for months for this moment.  Driver, much to his credit, didn’t care about any of that.
He cared about the person, not the passer whose right arm is
responsible for 23 touchdown tosses this season. What mattered
more was the 27-year-old friend who has a lot of football and
life left.  Driver, a 12-year-veteran, married with two children,
thought about more than the here and now, more than Packers
versus Lions. He looked at Rodgers, glassy eyed, and pictured a
young man’s future. A wife and kids, maybe.  Driver walked behind the bench and whispered in his
quarterback’s ear.  “I told him I love him to death and you’ve got to make the
choice, but this game is not that important,” Driver said.  Can’t you just picture coaches cringing at that statement?  Rodgers stood up and stared at his friend. You need to make
a choice, Driver repeated. “That’s when he realized he just
couldn’t go anymore.”  Pressure Cooker  It’s easy to succumb to scrambled priorities, especially
when coaches and announcers are screaming about must-win
scenarios and validating million-dollar paychecks. Of course,
coaches who don’t win get fired. They need players to play, and
the Packers aren’t the Packers without Rodgers.  Driver counts on his quarterback to make a living. Better
passes mean more catches, more touchdowns, more  millions . Driver
wasn’t thinking about himself.  Let’s hope that good sense is contagious, though a number
of players have already decried as wimpy the league’s efforts to
eradicate helmet-to-helmet hits. The NFL shouldn’t have to
protect players from themselves or the outmoded notion that a
player who sits out with concussion-related symptoms isn’t tough
enough for football.  Respect Your Body  “It’s not about being tough anymore,” Driver said.
“You’ve got to get to a point where your body tells you -- you
can’t fight through that injury anymore and you have to shut it
down.”  Sometimes the body is screaming and yet it still takes a
teammate to tell a friend it’s time. It takes someone like
Driver, who doesn’t believe in the notion that just because you
can’t see a concussion on an X-ray doesn’t mean that a teammate
isn’t hurt.  NFL players whisper. They wonder, sometimes aloud, about a
teammate’s toughness and dedication. Maybe things are changing,
though.  Earlier this month the  Associated Press , citing league
data, said the number of concussions being reported this season
is up more than 20 percent from 2009 and more than 30 percent
from 2008. That’s good news. Players, the numbers show, not only
are more cognizant about the warning signs but they’re less
inclined to keep quiet.  As for the MVP race, Vick’s Eagles sit atop the NFC East
with a 10-4 record. Brady’s Patriots are 12-2 and have already
clinched a playoff berth.  Losing Ground  Things aren’t so swell for the Packers, who lost that game
to the Lions, 7-3, and fell to New England the following week,
damaging their playoff chances. Next up for Green Bay is the New
York Giants, whose defense has sent more than its share of
quarterbacks to the sideline this season.  Should Rodgers, who has been cleared to play, or any other
Packers players find themselves face down on the frozen tundra
of Lambeau Field, ears buzzing and seeing stars, there’s no more
valuable player to have on his side than Driver.  Not even Vick or Brady.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  