-- Nippon Yusen to Triple Capesize Fleet Serving India
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2010-12-24T03:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/nippon-yusen-to-triple-india-capesize-fleet-on-demand-for-coal-iron-ore.html
Nippon Yusen K.K. , Japan’s second-
largest operator of dry-bulk ships, plans to more than triple
its fleet of capesizes serving India because of demand for coal
and iron ore in the world’s fastest-growing major steel market.  The shipping line expects to have 15 capesizes hauling the
commodities to India by 2015, close to the fleet size currently
serving China,  Kazuo Ogasawara , general manager of its bulker
group, said in an interview in Tokyo. The company plans to
expand its total capesize fleet to 120 from 95 by 2012-2013.  Indian imports of coal may surge nearly seven-fold to 200
million metric tons a year by 2015 as the growing economy drives
demand for metal and electricity, Ogasawara said. The nation’s
steel consumption may also jump 14 percent next year, compared
with a 3.5 percent increase in China and a decline in Japan,
according the World Steel Association.  “Crude steel output in India is set to surpass the level
of Japan,” Ogasawara said in a Dec. 21 interview. “In addition,
electricity demand is coming in.”  The shipping line is in talks with Indian steelmakers on
long-term contracts, Ogasawara said, without elaborating. It
currently runs four vessels for Indian customers Tata Steel Ltd.
and  Tata Power Co.   India will likely use 68 million tons of steel next year,
compared with 599 million tons in China, the world’s largest
steel consumer, and 62 million tons in Japan, according to an
Oct. 4 estimate by the World Steel Association.  New Orders?  Nippon Yusen will watch the market and the timing of port
projects before deciding whether to place any new orders for
ships, Ogasawara said. India needs to triple port capacity by
2020, Shipping Minister G.K. Vasan said at a conference in New
Delhi on Dec. 22.  Next year, about 200 capesize bulkers will be delivered
globally, and capacity may outpace demand, Ogasawara said. Rates
to hire capesizes that mostly haul iron ore and coal have dived
43 percent this year to $21,219 a day, according to the  Baltic
Exchange  in London.  Fleet expansion has driven rents lower even as demand
increased. Seaborne trade in coal and iron ore to make steel and
generate power will rise 10 percent this year, according to
London-based Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker. At
the same time capesize-fleet capacity will grow 23 percent.  Nippon Yusen , also Japan’s largest shipping line by sales,
fell 1.4 percent to 364 yen as of the 11 a.m. trading break in
Tokyo. The stock has gained 28 percent this year.  India, the third-largest iron-ore exporter, may also become
a net importer, as domestic companies invest in overseas mines
to secure adequate supplies, Ogasawara said.  NMDC Ltd. , India’s
biggest iron-ore producer, plans to buy a mine in Australia, its
first overseas acquisition.  India Coal  India’s Coal Minister Sriprakash Jaiswal also said this
week that state-run companies will seek to buy mines in South
Africa, Botswana and Mozambique to plug a domestic shortfall. He
is due to visit Africa next month.  Coal India Ltd., the world’s biggest producer of the fuel,
and Neyveli Lignite Corp. are among state-owned companies
looking for deposits overseas. Jaiswal said local supply may
fall short of demand by 83 million metric tons in the year
ending March 31.  Nippon Yusen said Oct. 29 it expects a profit of 76 billion
yen ($907 million) for the year ending March 31, compared with a
previous forecast of 68 billion yen, following a rebound in
demand for container shipments to the U.S. and Europe. Tokyo-
based  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd.,  operator of the world’s largest
merchant fleet, also raised its forecast. The companies also
operate car carriers, oil tankers and liquefied natural gas
carriers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masumi Suga  in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
 Kiyotaka Matsuda  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  