-- North Koreans Threaten to Wage `Sacred War' as South Holds Military Drill
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2010-12-24T04:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/north-koreans-threaten-sacred-war-as-south-stages-exercise.html
North Korea threatened to wage a
“sacred war” using nuclear weapons if attacked as South Korea
held a military exercise with jet fighters and mobile artillery
near the Demilitarized Zone that separates the countries.  About 800 troops joined the 42-minute drill yesterday in
Pocheon, about 30 kilometers (19 miles) from the border with
North Korea, according to a pool report provided to journalists.
The exercise followed live-firing on Nov. 23 into waters North
Korea claims are its territory and which sparked a barrage of a
South Korean island in which four people died.  North Korea accused the South of pushing the peninsula to
the brink of war with “grave military provocation,” the
official Korean Central News Agency reported, quoting  Kim Yong Chun , the minister of its People’s Armed Forces. North Korea
makes repeated claims that military maneuvers by South Korea and
its U.S. allies are preparations for a full-scale invasion.  North Korea is “fully prepared to launch a sacred war of
justice of Korean style based on the nuclear deterrent at
anytime necessary to cope with enemies’ actions,” KCNA quoted
Kim as saying. “Should the enemies intrude into the sky, land
and seas of the DPRK even 0.001 mm, the KPA will as ever
continue dealing more devastating physical blows at them,” Kim
said, using the official acronym for North Korea.  Disputed Waters  The Nov. 23 drill by South Korea took place on Yeonpyeong,
one of a group of islands that are dotted around North Korea’s
Ongjin peninsula. The military demarcation line drawn up to
separate the two countries at the end of the 1950-1953 Korean
War isn’t recognized by the North, which claims the islands are
in its territorial waters. South Korea’s latest exercise, while
close to the border, took place in an undisputed area.  “Unfortunately, North Korea is back to its old belligerent
tricks,” State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said in
message posted on Twitter. “We need constructive actions, not
heated rhetoric from North Korea.”  Yesterday’s exercise followed maneuvers involving South
Korean marines that started Dec. 22 in waters near the eastern
sea border. Defense Minister  Kim Kwan Jin  said on Dec. 21 that
the military will remain on alert even after another artillery
drill on Yeonpyeong Island ended on Dec. 20 without retaliation
from the North.  ‘Still a Tinderbox’  Former New Mexico Governor  Bill Richardson , who visited
North Korea earlier this week, told the Associated Press that
the threat of renewed violence between the two countries
remained.  “The situation is still a tinderbox,” Richardson, who
served as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations during the
Clinton administration, said in an interview with AP. “There’s
still enormous tension, enormous mistrust, and I believe
diplomacy is what is needed to get us out of this tinderbox.”  The equipment involved in the exercises in Pocheon, north
of the capital of Seoul, included 30 K-1 tanks, 11 K-200 armored
personnel carriers, two F-15K jets, 36 K-9 artillery pieces,
three multiple long-range rockets, three AH-1S cobra helicopters
and other equipment, the pool report said.  The military is considering lowering alert levels in some
border areas, said an official at the Joint Chiefs of Staff who
declined to be named because of military policy. He declined to
provide details including the names of regions and whether the
military noticed any easing of tension with North Korea.  South Korea kept the alert level at the highest stage of
“Jindo Dog 1” since North Korea shelled Yeonpyeong, killing
two marines and two civilians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at   scha2@bloomberg.net 
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  