-- Obama Said Ready to Renominate Diamond to Fed Board After Senate Rejection
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-12-23T19:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/obama-said-ready-to-renominate-laureate-diamond-to-federal-reserve-board.html
President  Barack Obama  will re-
nominate  Peter Diamond  to the Federal Reserve Board after the
Nobel laureate economist failed to gain U.S. Senate approval, a
White House official said.  Diamond, 70, said in a Nov. 30 interview that he would
accept re-nomination. The Senate adjourned yesterday without
voting on Diamond’s nomination, which Obama first offered in
April.  Republicans questioned Diamond’s monetary-policy expertise
and compliance with a geographic provision of central bank law.
The inaction deprives Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  of intellectual
support in Fed debates over his efforts to reduce unemployment
through an expansion of record monetary stimulus.  “It helps if the chairman has a point person who can
advance the arguments and participants feel it’s OK to criticize
that person,” said  Vincent Reinhart , a former Fed monetary-
affairs director who’s now a resident scholar at the American
Enterprise Institute in Washington. “So you get a lot of the
issues aired without the chairman having to expose himself.”  Federal Reserve spokeswoman  Barbara Hagenbaugh  declined to
comment today.  The failure to approve Diamond leaves one opening out of
seven on the Fed’s Washington-based board. All governors, along
with five of the 12 regional Fed presidents, have a vote on
monetary policy at each Federal Open Market Committee meeting.
The FOMC voted 10-1 on Dec. 14 to maintain its unconventional-
stimulus plans and buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June.  Monetary Stimulus  Some senators may be focusing on Diamond’s ability to make
decisions on policy questions such as when to begin to reverse
the Fed’s more than $1 trillion in monetary stimulus, said  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in Jersey City,
New Jersey.  “What you want is a policy maker that over the course of
his or her lifetime has had to deal with the consequences of his
or her decisions,” he said. “That is a fundamentally different
discipline from developing creative ideas.”  Diamond’s nomination had been held up by Senate Republicans
and was returned in August to the White House, which nominated
him again in September. Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama, the
senior Republican on the Banking Committee, questioned Diamond’s
qualifications on monetary policy and said his nomination
violates a law that no two Fed governors can be from the same
geographic region.  Chicago Region  The White House designated Diamond as being from the
Chicago Fed district to comply with the law. In the November
interview, Diamond, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology since 1966, defended his professional connections
to the region, saying it was sufficient for the provision.  Senator  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut Democrat who has
been chairman of the Banking Committee for the last four years,
said Nov. 16 that several Fed appointees over the past decade,
including Bernanke, might have been disqualified if the law had
been “rigidly applied” to their nominations. Congress didn’t
intend the Fed law to be a residency requirement, said Dodd, who
is retiring this year.  “Certainly, compared to the examples that Senator Dodd was
citing from past appointments, I have enough of a connection to
satisfy what the lawyers say is called for,” Diamond said Nov.
30 after a panel discussion at Sweden’s embassy with  Dale Mortensen , who shared the Nobel in October with Diamond and
 Christopher Pissarides .  Seminars at Northwestern  Diamond cited teaching for one quarter at Northwestern
University in Evanston, Illinois; seminars at Northwestern and
the University of Chicago and other visits for a few days apiece
at schools located in the Fed district, including the University
of Iowa, Iowa State University, the University of Michigan and
Michigan State University.  President  Barack Obama  in April initially nominated Diamond
and  Sarah Bloom Raskin  for Fed governor seats and  Janet Yellen 
for vice chairman; the trio appeared together in a Banking
Committee hearing July 15.  The panel voted July 28 to recommend all three for
approval, giving Diamond the smallest majority, 16-7. The next
week, the Senate returned Diamond’s nomination to the White
House under a procedural rule because of an objection from at
least one unidentified senator. Obama re-nominated Diamond on
Sept. 13, restarting the process of his candidacy.  In the meantime, the Senate confirmed Yellen and Raskin on
Sept. 29, and they were sworn in Oct. 4. When Diamond won the
Nobel on Oct. 11, Shelby said in a statement that the Nobel
committee “does not determine who is qualified to serve” on
the U.S. central bank.  The Senate Banking Committee held a second vote on Diamond
Nov. 16, giving him the same 16-7 margin. Shelby raised the
issue of Diamond’s geographic compliance after Bloomberg News
reported the White House’s Chicago designation.  “It’s not the stamp from an outside committee that drives
decisions” in Congress, Reinhart said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  