-- Oil Climbs to Two-Year High, Stocks Gain on Recovery Confidence, Takeovers
-- B y   A n n   K o h   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-12-23T07:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/oil-climbs-to-two-year-high-stocks-gain-on-recovery-confidence-takeovers.html
Oil rose to a two-year high and
Asian stocks climbed for a third day on signs of a global
economic recovery and a pickup in corporate takeovers.  Crude oil traded in New York gained 0.2 percent to $90.70 a
barrel as of 7 a.m. in London, bringing its three-month advance
to 21 percent. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index Excluding Japan Index 
climbed 0.3 percent to 471.97. Japanese markets are closed today
for a public holiday. Futures on the U.S.  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  and the Euro Stoxx 50 index both rose 0.1 percent.  U.S. government data yesterday showed the economy expanded
faster than previously estimated and crude supplies dropped to
the lowest level since February, before a report today that will
probably show consumer spending growth picked up last month. Rio
Tinto Group, the world’s third-biggest mining company, offered
A$3.9 billion ($3.9 billion) for Australian coking coal
developer Riversdale Mining Ltd.  “The economic data is showing that the recovery is
broadening from the emerging markets, and that even the U.S.
recovery is entrenched,” said  Prasad Patkar , who helps manage
about $1.8 billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney.  Oil gained for a fifth day, its longest winning streak in
six weeks. The world’s largest economy grew at a 2.6 percent
annual rate last quarter, above the government’s previous
estimate of 2.5 percent. The U.S. Energy Department said
stockpiles dropped 5.33 million barrels.  Bullish Numbers  Spending by U.S. consumers, which accounts for about 70
percent of gross domestic product, rose 0.5 percent after a 0.4
percent gain in October, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the data is
released today. A separate report may show bookings for  durable
goods excluding  cars and planes climbed 1.8 percent.  “We are bullish on oil in the short, medium and long
term,”  Michael Haigh , global head of commodities research at
Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move Asia” program. “Over the
next year we’re seeing oil creeping up into the mid-$90s.”  The regional stock benchmark that excludes Japan has
climbed 5.2 percent this month as China refrained from raising
interest rates and U.S. reports on consumer confidence, the
trade deficit and employment beat analyst estimates.  Rio Purchase  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index  rose 0.4 percent today,
climbing to the highest level in almost seven weeks. Rio Tinto
gained 0.5 percent to A$87.20 as its acquisition will help boost
its coal reserves in Mozambique as demand rises.  Takeovers in Australia surged to a record this quarter,
renewing hopes that 2011 will uncork a backlog of deals in a
commodities-led revival. The value of announced mergers and
acquisitions since Sept. 30 more than quadrupled from a year ago
to $59 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
past week saw bids for Bilfinger Berger SE’s construction unit
and iron-ore explorer Giralia Resources NL.  Aker Solutions ASA, Norway’s largest engineering company,
climbed 4.3 percent yesterday after Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.
agreed to buy some of its units.  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. , Australia’s
two largest oil and gas producers, gained 1.4 percent and 0.2
percent, respectively.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. , the
world’s biggest electronics manufacturing services provider,
advanced 1.7 percent in Taipei on speculation U.S. demand for
its products will rise.  Kiwi Gains  The Singapore dollar appreciated 0.3 percent to S$1.3054
against its U.S. counterpart and South Korea’s won climbed 0.5
percent to 1,148.95. Taiwan’s dollar rose 2.6 percent to
NT$29.84, partly reflecting intervention to weaken the currency
by the central bank yesterday. Taiwan will report today that
factory production increased for a 15th month, and Singapore
will say tomorrow that industrial output accelerated last month,
economists predicted in separate Bloomberg surveys.  “Risk appetite is boosted again,” said  David Cohen , the
Singapore-based head of Asian forecasting at Action Economics.
“We see a more optimistic tone amid investors worldwide as the
global recovery is continuing.”  The New Zealand dollar advanced against all of its 16 most-
traded peers as Finance Minister Bill English said economic
expansion will accelerate next year, buoyed by the country
hosting the Rugby World Cup finals and strong export prices. The
nation’s GDP unexpectedly fell in the third quarter, a
government showed today.  New Zealand’s currency climbed to NZ$1.3438 per Australian
dollar from NZ$1.3489 yesterday in New York, where it reached as
low as NZ$1.3521, the weakest since September 2000. It rose 0.8
percent to 74.63 U.S. cents.  “Markets were already braced for something relatively weak,
so the bigger picture is one where GDP growth should continue to
recover next year and that’s limiting downside in the kiwi,”
said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand
Ltd. in Wellington.  Pound Gains  The pound advanced 0.3 percent to $1.5424 after Bank of
England Markets Director Paul Fisher said in a Daily Telegraph
interview that the central bank is seeking higher interest rates.
The euro appreciated to $1.3132 from $1.3100 in New York
yesterday. It fell to 109.17 yen from 109.47 yen.  Copper declined for a second day in London as the metal’s
rally to a record deterred purchases in China, the world’s
largest user. Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange
dropped 0.4 percent to $9,315 a metric ton.  China’s benchmark money-market rate surged to a three-year
high on speculation a shortage of funds will worsen as banks
hoard cash before the New Year holiday. Policy makers on Dec. 10
ordered lenders to park more money with the central bank for the
third time in five weeks to limit inflation.  The seven-day repo rate, which measures lending costs
between banks, jumped 150 basis points to 5.67 percent, the
highest level since October 2007, according to a daily fixing
published at 11 a.m. by the National Interbank Funding Center.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  