-- Holiday Emergency! Last-Minute Gift Books for Procrastinators
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2010-12-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/holiday-emergency-last-minute-gift-books-for-procrastinators.html
Observe Rockefeller Center in 1949.
The French bookstore is there, looking just as it did before
closing last year. A Hawaiian garden has taken over the flower
beds. A lady in a snazzy hat sits on a bench, people-watching.
The clothes are different, but the scene is amazingly familiar.  There are gems like this throughout “ New York: Portrait of
a City ” (Taschen, $69.99), a massive visual tribute to the Big
Apple including landmarks both geographic (the Empire State
Building, the Brooklyn Bridge) and human (a literary party at
 George Plimpton ’s apartment, Curtis Sliwa in his Guardian Angels
gear peering through the window of a graffitied subway car).  Famous photographers like  Edward Steichen  and Berenice
Abbott are joined by anonymous shooters who capture slices of
history: Wall Street employees reading ticker tape on Black
Thursday in 1929, a Hooverville homeless encampment in Central
Park in 1933. Kelly Price used a disposable camera for an
unforgettable shot of people running away from the World Trade
Center on Sept. 11, 2001, with smoke billowing after them.  Lichens, Mosses  “ Natural History: The Ultimate Visual Guide to Everything
on Earth ” (DK, $50). This book, produced in association with
the Smithsonian Institution, will captivate everyone from little
kids to multitasking adults. More than 600 pages of bright color
photographs detail everything from algae, lichen and mosses to
flowering plants, insects and all kinds of animals. Who would
have thought a display of parasitic flatworms could be so
interesting? This volume makes a great argument for why
reference books still have a place in print.  Thou Shalt Craft  “ Simple Times: Crafts for Poor People ” by Amy Sedaris
(Grand Central, $27.99). Amy Sedaris has more in common with
arch self-portraitist  Cindy Sherman  than with domestic diva
 Martha Stewart . You won’t find laborious instructions for
precious homemade gifts here. Rather, Sedaris provides pictures
of herself dressed up as an American Indian, space alien or
Jesus Christ alongside projects like “donut squirrel feeder”
and “painted rocks.”  There’s a Ten Commandments of Crafting (“II. Thou shalt
not attempt crafting beyond thy intellectual capacity -- a
nitwit can’t knit.”) Even sex gets the oddball crafting
treatment --and it’s one of many reminders that this is not a
book for kids.  Live Long and Prosper  “ Star Trek: The Original Series 365 ” by Paula M. Block
with Terry J. Erdmann (Abrams, $29.95). It’s easy to forget that
before it was a pop-culture phenomenon, “Star Trek” began as a
modest TV show that was canceled after three years. This chunky
book is a celebration of the original “Trek,” with remastered
photo stills, synopses of all 79 episodes and interviews with
cast and crew. Fun surprises include a picture of  Leonard Nimoy 
as Mr. Spock on “The Carol Burnett Show” in 1967, getting
confused with baby expert Dr. Spock.  Doonesbury  “ 40: A Doonesbury Retrospective ” by G.B. Trudeau (Andrews
McMeel, $100). If you haven’t read “Doonesbury” for a while,
you may have lost track of the complex web of relationships
among Mike, Zonker, J.J. and their friends and offspring. This
amazing retrospective is organized around characters, not
political events, and is a great way to catch up. It includes
only 13 percent of the published strips, but captures the
essence of Trudeau’s dry-witted world.  ( Laurie Muchnick  is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
 Laurie Muchnick  in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 