-- London Office Market Leads the World as Rising Rents Draw Global Investors
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-12-23T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/london-office-market-leads-the-world-as-rising-rents-draw-global-investors.html
London’s commercial property market
has probably drawn the most investment for the second
consecutive year as prospects of  rising rental income  attract
cash from as far afield as Hong Kong, Qatar and Canada.  Sales of existing commercial property in the U.K. capital
totaled $13.9 billion in the first nine months, more than in any
other city, according to  Real Capital Analytics Inc.  Some of the
biggest deals of the year were announced in the final quarter.  “There’s a massive surplus of investment capital looking
for a home, and the one thing in common is a desire for yield,”
 Dan Fasulo , RCA’s managing director, said in an interview. “A
core London office property at a 5 or 6 percent yield looks
fantastic against the alternatives.”  Cash-rich pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, insurers
and wealthy individuals bought shops, offices and even luxury
homes in central London as low interest rates and concern that
the global economy will deteriorate made other investments
riskier and less appealing. The city also ranked first in 2009
with sales of $16.8 billion, New York-based RCA said.  In the past two months, Norway’s sovereign wealth fund
agreed to pay 448 million pounds ($692 million) for a stake in
Regent Street. JPMorgan Chase & Co. purchased a new European
headquarters building for 495 million pounds. Dutch and Canadian
retirement funds signed an 872 million-pound deal giving them
part of the Westfield Stratford City mall next to the site of
the 2012 Olympics.  In May, the sovereign wealth fund of gas-rich Qatar bought
the Harrods Ltd. luxury department store for 1.5 billion pounds.  “Negative real interest rates mean you aren’t going to buy
government bonds, corporate bonds have already had an incredible
rally, gold doesn’t give you a yield and the stock market is
volatile,” Fasulo said.  Tokyo, New York  Tokyo ranked second after London based on existing
commercial property sales in the first nine months, at $13.1
billion. Hong Kong was third, followed by Paris and New York.
RCA’s final rankings for 2010 are due in February.  If land deals for development are included along with
existing buildings, Shanghai attracted the most money in the
first three quarters, at $21 billion, the data show. About 81
percent of that figure is for development projects.  New York held the top spot in the world for commercial real
estate sales in 2007, at the height of the debt-fueled
investment boom. It slipped to second place after Tokyo in 2008,
and to seventh place last year, RCA data show. In the first nine
months of 2010, sales of existing New York commercial property
totaled $5.8 billion.  London’s Recovery  London was one of the first real estate markets to see a
pickup in deals and prices after the financial meltdown. The
recovery began in the second half of 2009, ending two years of
declines that wiped  50 percent from central London office  values.
Property became even more affordable for foreign buyers as the
pound dropped.  Sterling  is now 23 percent below its September
2007 value against a basket of other currencies.  In London’s West End, where office leases cost the most in
the world, rental income totals about 4 percent of a Grade-A
building’s value on average. The ratio, known as the
capitalization rate, was 3.5 percent when prices peaked in 2008
and rose to as high as 5.5 percent a year later as the financial
crisis caused values to fall, CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. said.  “You saw a huge weight of money coming in from overseas,
attracted by the double-whammy of super-cheap pricing and the
pound effect,” said Damian Corbett, head of West End office
sales at  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc .  Investors may start to look away from London in 2011 as
property in parts of the U.S. becomes good value again, said
RCA’s Fasulo. U.S. deals may double next year and account for
almost a quarter of global transactions, he said.  U.S. Undervalued  U.S. offices are the most  undervalued  real estate in the
world and investors have almost $100 billion earmarked for deals
there, according to broker DTZ Holdings Plc.  Fasulo predicts “a wave of new investment” over the next
six months in Manhattan worth about $10 billion. The average
capitalization rate for a prime office building in the borough
is 6 percent, and prices have scope to climb by about 4 percent,
according to DTZ.  London’s reign seems secure for the time being. Corbett
estimates that there are 1,000 wealthy individuals looking to
buy prime commercial properties in the British capital for as
much as 200 million pounds, compared with about four in 2008.  Pramerica Real Estate Investors, acting for a wealthy
family that it declined to identify, acquired Perella Weinberg
Partners’ London headquarters in Mayfair for 47.8 million pounds
in September. The sale was at a capitalization rate of 3.9
percent, brokers NB Real Estate and King Sturge estimate.  Malaysia Fund  Malaysia’s Employees Provident Fund announced plans in
August to invest 1 billion pounds in U.K. real estate, citing
the “stable and highly liquid” market and laws that secure
titles and protect landlords.  The fund acquired 40 Portman Square, an office and
residential building in central London, on Dec. 2 for 181
million pounds, or a capitalization rate of 5.57 percent.  It
bought Visa Europe’s headquarters in Paddington for 156 million
pounds last month. The purchases were confirmed by people with
knowledge of the deals, who declined to be identified because
the information is confidential.  Investors in London expect capitalization rates on
properties they own to go up as rents increase, said Jason
Winfield, who heads DTZ’s U.K. sales department.  DTZ  predicts that prime office rents in the West End will
climb 38 percent to 110 pounds a square foot in 2014 from last
year’s low of 80 pounds. In the City of London financial
district, they will rise 55 percent to 67.50 pounds a square
foot. City offices are still priced 10 percent below fair value
and West End properties are 5.5 percent undervalued, according
to the broker.  Outside the Capital  The gains have been mainly limited to the capital, RCA data
show. Elsewhere in Britain, concern about the impact of
government spending cuts to reduce the national debt has held
back property investment.  Tenants are competing for the best new office space in
London after the financial crisis caused construction to slow.
Drivers Jonas Deloitte estimates that office construction in
central London is the lowest in at least 20 years, and the
prospect of constrained supply has drawn some overseas investors.  Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement System  acquired a 50
percent stake in the 340 million-pound “Cheesegrater” tower
project in the City in October.  Money isn’t just flowing into shops and offices. The euro
region’s debt crisis enticed more continental Europeans to seek
a “safe haven” in London, where luxury residential prices are
14 percent lower in euro terms than at the peak in early 2008,
according to Knight Frank LLP.  “Some of the uncertainties in other cities helped
London,” Fasulo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  