-- London Real Estate Millionaires Surge 11%, Outpacing the National Increase
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-12-23T12:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/london-real-estate-millionaires-surge-11-outpacing-the-national-increase.html
The number of properties in London
and southeast England worth at least one million pounds ($1.5
million) rose more than 10 percent this year as foreign
investors helped boost demand, property website  Zoopla  said.  London homes worth a million pounds jumped 11.1 percent to
123,236 in 2010, the company said in a report today. That’s
almost twice the 6 percent increase recorded nationally and the
capital now accounts for more than half the U.K. total of
226,344. The number of “property millionaires” in the South
East rose 11.9 percent to 56,026.  The south of the country has been affected “far less by
the mortgage squeeze as a result of the inflow of foreign money
and the strength in the City keeping demand for million-pound
pads at peak levels,” Zoopla Commercial Director Nick Leeming
said in the report. “But the rest of the market and
particularly the North have seen a steep decline.”  Demand for homes has weakened as banks restrict lending and
Britons brace for government spending cuts and tax increases
aimed at narrowing the  budget deficit . Still, a shortage of
supply has helped underpin prices in some areas and the Royal
Institution of Chartered Surveyors said this week that average
declines in 2011 will be “negligible.”  The number of million-pound properties increased 14.9
percent in the East of England and 4.5 percent in the South
West. Numbers fell in the rest of Britain, with Wales, and
Yorkshire and Humber dropping by half.  Nine of the 10 areas in Britain that feature the most
property millionaires were in London, led by Kensington, where
more than half of homes are worth more than a million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  