-- Judge's Niece Is Jailed for Six Weeks for Assaulting Police in Hong Kong
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2010-12-23T08:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/hong-kong-judge-s-niece-sentenced-to-six-weeks-for-probation-violations.html
A Hong Kong judge’s niece was
ordered to spend six weeks in prison after violating terms of
the year’s probation she received for assaulting a police
officer.  “It is clear a caution or fine is no longer sufficient,”
Magistrate Amanda Woodcock said today when ordering Amina Mariam
Bokhary jailed. Bokhary’s probation, on her third conviction for
police assaults, was criticized by law enforcement groups and
others in Hong Kong for being too lenient.  Lawyers for Bokhary, the niece of  Court of Final Appeal Justice Kemal Bokhary , proposed that their client be freed on
HK$100,000 ($12,856) bail while they work on an appeal. Woodcock
declined, saying she didn’t see an appeal as being likely to
succeed.  Amina Bokhary, 34, breached five of seven conditions laid
down in her probation. She had two prior convictions for
assaulting police officers that resulted in fines and community
service.  An appeal of Bokhary’s jail sentence will be filed today,
her lawyer Christopher Morley said by e-mail.  Another of her lawyers, Peter Duncan, told the hearing
Bokhary had breached the conditions, including failing to
contact her probation officer since October, after becoming
paranoid over “the media publicity surrounding the case” and
felt that “she had become a target of abuse.”  The Department of Justice had  applied  to the Hong Kong High
Court for a review of Bokhary’s probation sentence, saying a
prison sentence would have been more appropriate for a repeat
offense of assaulting a police officer and failing to submit to
a breath test. A hearing is scheduled for Jan. 11.  Bokhary crashed her vehicle into a bus while driving on the
wrong side of the road on Jan. 27. A local television crew
captured her slapping police officer Tang Man-wai on camera. She
was also fined in August for careless driving.  The case is Amina Mariam Bokhary ESCC1354/2010 in the
Eastern Magistrates Court of Hong Kong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dirk Beveridge at 
 dbeveridge1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  