-- Yuan Offshore Premium Drops as HKMA Starts 20 Billion Yuan Fund
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2010-12-24T04:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/hong-kong-may-allow-yuan-promissory-notes-to-ease-ipos-in-china-s-currency.html
The premium to buy yuan outside
China disappeared as Hong Kong’s central bank set up a fund to
ensure supply of the currency for cross-border trade settlements.  Yuan traded in Hong Kong at 6.6510 per dollar as of 12:10
p.m. local time, a discount to the 6.6333 rate in Shanghai, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore trading began in July and
the Hong Kong rate has on average been 0.8 percent stronger than
that on the mainland since Bloomberg began tracking the data
four months ago.  Hong Kong banks  will be allowed to tap the 20
billion yuan ($3 billion) fund from next month should the city’s
yuan clearing bank run out of funds set under a quarterly quota.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority made 10 billion yuan
available in October using a swap agreement with China’s central
bank after an 8 billion yuan quota proved insufficient. Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  is allowing the currency to become more
readily available beyond China’s borders to reduce reliance on
U.S. dollars in trade and finance.  “They’re hurtling toward this now,” said  Gavin Parry ,
managing director of Hong Kong-based Parry International Trading
Ltd. “They’re really using Hong Kong as the settlement and
clearing hub for offshore deposit and transactions” in yuan, he
said.  Hong Kong aims to grow as an offshore center for yuan
trading and HKMA Chief Executive  Norman Chan  said yesterday
 deposits  totaled 280 billion yuan at the end of November, up
from 220 billion yuan a month earlier. The city received 130
billion yuan in net trade payments from China in the first 11
months, he told reporters in Hong Kong.  Currency Swap  The amount of yuan available at the clearing bank will be
subject to quarterly review, Chan said, predicting that 4
billion yuan will be enough for the first quarter of 2011. The
yuan fund, created through a currency-swap agreement with the
People’s Bank of China, will be “more than enough” to meet
rising demand for the currency, he said.  The HKMA, along with the city’s banks, will be promoting
Hong Kong’s offshore yuan business next year in countries that
have “rapidly rising trade and investment flows with the
mainland,” Chan said.  Hong Kong currently has  BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd.  as a
yuan clearing bank. There are risks in having a single bank for
yuan clearance, the official Xinhua news agency  reported on Dec.
10 , citing  Peter Wong , chief executive officer for the Asia-
Pacific region at HSBC Holdings Plc.  The city’s richest man,  Li Ka-shing , plans what may be the
first initial share sale in yuan early next year, as he seeks
more than 10 billion yuan ($1.5 billion) for a real estate
investment trust backed by the Oriental Plaza development in
Beijing, a person with knowledge of the matter has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Wong  in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net 
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dirk Beveridge at 
 dbeveridge1@bloomberg.net  