-- U.S. Online Holiday Sales Climb 15%, Boosting Overall Share
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2010-12-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/online-holiday-sales-climb-15-as-web-shoppers-buy-apparel-electronics.html
U.S. online sales jumped 15 percent
this holiday season, spurred by “aggressive” marketing by Web-
based retailers, a research firm said.  Online sales were $36.4 billion from Oct. 31 through Dec.
22, compared with $31.5 billion a year earlier, said MasterCard
Advisors’  SpendingPulse , a Purchase, New York-based firm that
measures retail sales by all payment forms. Online apparel sales
grew the fastest, or 26 percent, while electronics were up 12
percent and department stores 11 percent.  Daily online sales exceeded $1 billion on six days this
season, which was twice as many days as a year ago, said  Michael McNamara , a vice president at SpendingPulse. The growth meant
online sales grabbed a larger share of the season’s total sales,
he said.  “It’s a pretty positive story,” McNamara said in an
interview. “Retailers started earlier, in the second week of
November, and were more aggressive with their tactics --
discounts and promotions. That seemed to drive growth.”  Amazon.com Inc. , the largest online retailer, is likely to
sell more than 8 million Kindle electronic-book readers this
year, at least 60 percent more than analysts have predicted,
according to two people who are aware of the company’s sales
projections.  Tiffany & Co.,  the world’s second-largest luxury jewelry
retailer, said Nov. 24 that the average size of orders on its
Web site and through its catalogs increased in its latest three-
month period, contributing to a 7 percent gain in sales in those
channels.  Avoiding Crowds  At Macy’s Inc., the second-largest U.S. department store
chain, online sales surged 32 percent in November. That’s more
than five times faster than the 6.1 percent increase for the
Cincinnati-based  retailer’s  sales that month at stores open at
least a year, which include the revenue from Web transactions.  Some online shoppers may have been avoiding crowded stores
on days like Black Friday, the day after Thanksgiving and one of
the biggest shopping events of the year, McNamara said.  Nineteen percent of apparel sales happened online this
season, compared with 17 percent last year, McNamara said.  Buying increased after consumer confidence climbed in
December to the highest level in six months, helped by rising
stock prices and a better jobs picture. At the same time, Saks
Inc. and other chains limited promotions and discounts, forcing
shoppers to pay full price for popular items.  Holiday sales may advance 3.3 percent, which would be the
biggest gain since 2005, according to a forecast from the
Washington-based National Retail Federation. The NRF had
previously forecast an increase of 2.3 percent.  Sixty-two percent of adults said they expected to spend the
same or more on holiday purchases this year than last, according
to a survey from the NRF released Dec. 15.  Consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent of the U.S.
economy, and the holidays generate about 30 percent of annual
revenue for retailers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cotten Timberlake  in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello in New York at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 