-- Morgan Stanley Overtakes JPMorgan as World's Banker for 2010 Equity Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   T s a n g   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-12-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/morgan-stanley-overtakes-jpmorgan-as-top-bank-for-equity-sales.html
Morgan Stanley  ended JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s two-year run as the top banker for stock sales after
charging the lowest fees and winning deals from the U.S., China
and Brazil to arrange offerings by state-owned companies.  The 75-year-old securities firm’s global market share rose
to 10.4 percent in 2010 on $72.7 billion of initial public
offerings, additional sales and convertible bond issues, its
first top ranking in six years, according to preliminary data
compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan  was second with $59.7 billion,
while Goldman Sachs Group Inc. dropped to third after its share
of U.S. equity underwriting slumped to the lowest level since at
least 1998, the data show.  While banks vie for first place in the so-called league
tables betting it may lead to more business, Morgan Stanley’s
ranking came at a price. It was paid an average 2.3 percent fee,
the lowest of the top 10 banks, after underwriting state-backed
sales of  General Motors Co. , Citigroup Inc.,  Agricultural Bank
of China Ltd.  and Petroleo Brasileiro SA.  “If the banks wanted to remain active, they’ve had to
participate in some of the government-sponsored programs,” said
 Eric Teal , chief investment officer at First Citizens Bancshares
Inc. in Raleigh, North Carolina, which manages $4.5 billion.
“Like most government programs, they tend not to be highly
profitable, but they’re larger in size. It’s about getting in on
some of those bigger deals even though there’s less profit.”  Lehman’s Collapse  Banks arranged $699 billion in share sales this year, up 22
percent from 2009, as the  MSCI World Index  of 24 developed
markets recouped almost all the losses spurred by the collapse
of New York-based  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  in September
2008. About 37 percent of Morgan Stanley’s underwriting came
from state-controlled companies, Bloomberg data show.  “It was the hangover and the legacy of the crisis that the
government had stakes,” said  Bruce McCain , Cleveland-based
chief investment strategist at KeyCorp’s private-banking unit,
which oversees $25 billion. “The market had recovered enough
this year that it made sense to bring those stakes to market.”  GM , 61 percent owned by the Treasury, paid 0.75 percent in
fees, or a total of $136 million, to underwriters in its $18.1
billion IPO last month. The sale was the second-largest in U.S.
history behind San Francisco-based  Visa Inc.’s  $19.7 billion
deal in March 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
government spent $49.5 billion to rescue the Detroit-based
automaker after it filed for bankruptcy in June last year.  Citigroup Bailout  Morgan Stanley was the sole lead manager for the Treasury’s
sale of $10.5 billion of  Citigroup  stock this month. The deal
helped the U.S. recoup some of the $45 billion it spent to bail
out the New York-based lender. Citigroup paid $42.3 million in
fees, or 0.4 percent of the proceeds, according to a filing with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Agricultural Bank of China  in Beijing was charged fees of
1.96 percent for the Hong Kong portion of its record $22.1
billion IPO. Rio de Janeiro-based  Petrobras  paid 0.65 percent of
the proceeds for the $22.8 billion sale underwritten by seven
banks in September.  Fees for the government offerings arranged by Morgan
Stanley averaged 0.9 percent, the data show. The firm split a
0.001 percent fee with five banks for India’s sale of a $2.2
billion stake in Hyderabad-based  NMDC Ltd.  in March.  The average stock offering this year paid 3 percent in
fees, three times more than on  Morgan Stanley’s  government
deals, the data show.  ‘Win or Lose’  “We don’t want to ever win or lose business solely on the
basis of fees,”  John Moore , co-head of U.S. equity capital
markets at Morgan Stanley, said in a telephone interview. “As
for large transactions, the benefits of market leadership in a
single year are always important. But as, if not more, important
is the opportunity to serve clients in varied ways over a long
period of time.”  JPMorgan , the second-biggest U.S. bank, underwrote 333
deals, the most this year and almost 10 percent more than Morgan
Stanley, Bloomberg data show. Its market share fell for a second
year even as the firm helped arrange sales for GM and
Agricultural Bank, and the $20.5 billion Hong Kong IPO by  AIA
Group Ltd. , the Asian unit of New York-based American
International Group Inc.  The bank retained its top ranking for U.S. corporate bond
sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. New York-based
JPMorgan arranged 13.8 percent of the investment-grade debt
offerings, while winning a 14 percent share for junk bonds.
 Tasha Pelio , a New York-based spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Coal India, Petronas Chemicals  In Asia, which accounted for 36 percent of the world’s
equity sales, JPMorgan missed out as Morgan Stanley managed the
$3.5 billion state-backed sale from Kolkata-based  Coal India
Ltd.  and Malaysia’s $4.7 billion offering of  Petronas Chemicals
Group Bhd.  in Kuala Lumpur. Goldman Sachs arranged Queensland’s
$4.2 billion IPO of Brisbane, Australia-based  QR National Ltd.   Asia was Goldman Sachs’s biggest market, accounting for 47
percent of its $57.2 billion in deals. The most profitable
securities firm in the history of Wall Street also won the
largest share of business in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
It was the sole manager for Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based
Renault SA’s sale of a $4.2 billion stake in  Volvo AB  of
Gothenburg, Sweden, the region’s largest deal of the year.  The gains failed to offset Goldman Sachs’s decline in the
U.S., where its share plummeted by 51 percent to 8.6 percent.
 Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman for the New York-based company,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 