-- Mortgage Bond Sales Drop From 2009 Record as Yields Widen: Canada Credit
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-12-23T14:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/mortgage-bond-sales-drop-16-from-2009-record-canada-credit.html
Canadian mortgage bond sales fell 16
percent this year and may be little changed in 2011 as the
country’s housing agency cuts supply to reduce borrowing costs.  Canada Housing Trust, the financing arm of the nation’s
housing agency, sold C$39.4 billion ($38.9 billion) this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance ballooned to a
record C$46.9 billion last year as the credit crunch limited
other sources of funding for banks and mortgage lenders.  “It was becoming apparent in spread performance that maybe
the supply was outpacing demand,”  David DesLauriers , managing
director of government finance at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said by
phone from Toronto. “The program started to lower the size of
the issues.”  Although many factors influence  mortgage rates , reduced
sales of Canada mortgage bonds may mean more expensive mortgages
for consumers as banks turn to higher-cost funding sources,
DesLauriers said. Canada mortgage bonds are backed by the
federal government, making them a relatively inexpensive form of
financing.  Canada Housing, the nation’s largest debt issuer after the
federal government, sold C$23.8 billion worth of five-year
fixed-rate bonds, C$7.9 billion of five-year floating-rate bonds
and C$7.8 billion of 10-year fixed-rate bonds this year. The
Ottawa-based  trust , which issues quarterly, buys mortgages to
back the debt sales.  Canada Housing has “done a better job aligning the size of
mortgage bonds with investor demand,”  Andrew Hainsworth ,
director of debt capital markets at Bank of Montreal, said by
phone from Toronto. “They want to get a little bit of spread
performance out of CMBs. It’s also part of the repairing of the
credit markets after the financial crisis.”  Outpaced Ontario  Relative yields on Canada Housing five-year bonds traded at
about 25.5 basis points over federal benchmarks this week,
versus 23.5 basis points at the beginning of the year, according
to Hainsworth. By contrast, Ontario five-year  spreads  have
widened about six basis points this year.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield, or spread,
investors demand to own the debt of Canadian corporations rather
than the federal government widened to 140 basis points
yesterday from 139 basis points on Dec. 21, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index. The spread was as narrow as 114
basis points in March, the data show. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Canadian corporate bonds returned 6.9 percent this year,
including reinvested interest, according to the Merrill Lynch
index, which tracks 722 bonds with a par value of C$284 billion.
The bonds rose 15 percent last year.  Provincial Gains  The spread on U.S. corporate debt over Treasuries was 169
basis points as of Dec. 21, according to another Merrill Lynch
index, unchanged from Dec. 20. Treasuries have lost 2 percent
this month, paring their return for the year to 5.7 percent,
Merrill Lynch data show. Canadian government bonds have slipped
0.3 percent this month as of yesterday, trimming the 2010 gain
to 5.9 percent.  In the provincial bond market, relative yields were 53
basis points yesterday, from 52 on Dec. 21. They shrank to 39
basis points in January, the narrowest this year. The bonds
returned 6.8 percent this year.  Gross domestic product grew 0.2 percent to a seasonally
adjusted annual rate of C$1.24 trillion in October following a
0.1 percent contraction in September, Statistics Canada said
today in Ottawa. That’s less than the 0.3 percent median of 21
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Spreads on mortgage bonds were as narrow as 18 basis points
early in 2010 and as wide as 46 in May amid the European
sovereign debt crisis, Hainsworth said. Issuance has averaged
about C$27 billion annually, Bloomberg data show.  2011 Outlook  Canada Housing considers demand for funding from mortgage
lenders, investor appetite for the debt and the performance of
the broader credit markets when deciding the scale and pricing
of the issues, the trust said in an e-mailed statement.  Issuance may be C$40 billion in 2011, based on current
issuance of about C$10 billion a quarter, according to
Hainsworth. Apart from taking part in the Canada Mortgage bond
program, lenders can fund mortgages by other means such as
issuing covered bonds, packaging the mortgages and selling them
as mortgage-backed securities, or funding them via deposits,
Hainsworth said.  “That’s a fair estimate of what we’ll be looking at in the
quarters to come, given what we know right now,” DesLauriers
said, referring to the C$40 billion forecast.  Canada Housing paid 26.5 basis points over government
benchmarks on Dec. 15 to sell C$6 billion in five-year, 2.75
percent debt. About a quarter of the issue, which was lead
managed by TD, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce and Royal Bank of Canada, was purchased by
international investors.  The issue brought the total of Canada mortgage bonds
outstanding to C$195.5 billion, with the majority, C$173
billion, being fixed rate and the rest floating rate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  