-- Low-Priced Stock Rally Hints at Return of Retail Buyer: Technical Analysis
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2010-12-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/low-priced-stocks-rally-hints-retail-buying-technical-analysis.html
A rally in  low-priced  U.S. stocks
suggests individual investors may be returning after shunning
equities in favor of bonds since the financial crisis, according
to MF Global Inc.  The 150 stocks in the lowest price range in the  Standard &
Poor’s 1500 Index  have returned 15 percent as a group this
month. That’s more than double the average gain by the highest-
priced 150 stocks, and the best performance among the 10 price-
ranked groups, according to data from MF Global.  The gain in low-priced stocks, which were all below $10 on
Nov. 30, signals individuals are buying, because institutional
investors tend to shy away from these less liquid shares, said
 Craig Peskin , co-head of technical analysis at MF Global.  “All through this bull market run, the retail investor
never came back in a big way,” Peskin said in a telephone
interview from his office in New York. “Having the retail
investor come back is just another sign of demand for equities.
Hopefully, it adds to the length to this bull market.”  Individuals avoided stocks after  $11 trillion  was erased
from U.S. equity values between October 2007 and March 2009.
About $55 billion was withdrawn from U.S. stock mutual funds
during the third quarter, according to data compiled by the
Investment Company Institute. While the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  jumped 11 percent during the period, the withdrawal marked
the first time a three-month advance failed to spur investments,
according to LPL Financial Corp. in Boston.  Stocks rebounded after U.S. government and Federal Reserve
boosted spending to stimulate the economy and  70 percent  of S&P
500 companies beating profit estimates for a record six straight
quarters.  Recovery Complete  The  S&P 500  this week completed its recovery from the six-
month plunge that followed Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
collapse in September 2008, extending its rally from a 12-year
low in March 2009 to 86 percent.  Individuals are becoming more optimistic. The weekly survey
from the  American Association of Individual Investors  showed
bulls outpaced bears by 2.35 on Dec. 9, the second-highest ratio
this year.  The group of low-priced stocks beat the S&P 1500’s gain by
6.4 percentage points this month, the widest spread since August
2009. The outperformance is a reversal from the previous two
months, when the cheapest shares trailed the market, data from
MF Global showed. Of the 150 stocks, half trade fewer than
500,000 shares a day and three quarters have a market value of
less than $1 billion.  “Those are generally stocks that large institutions are
not aggressive buyers of, because they are just not liquid
enough,” Peskin said.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story;
 Lu Wang  in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  