-- Toyota Disappointed $10 Million Crash Deal Disclosed by Dealer's Lawyer
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-12-23T20:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/toyota-disappointed-10-million-crash-settlement-with-family-made-public.html
Toyota Motor Corp. , saying it
reached an out-of-court settlement with the family of a
California Highway Patrol officer who together with three others
died when their car sped out of control and crashed, said it was
disappointed that the amount of the settlement was made public.  Toyota, based in Toyota City, Japan, agreed to settle with
the family for $10 million, said Larry Willis, an attorney for
Bob Baker Lexus, the San Diego car dealership that loaned the
Lexus ES350 to Mark Saylor and isn’t part of the settlement.  A court order barring the parties involved from discussing
the settlement terms, which must be approved by a state court
judge in Los Angeles, expired yesterday.  “These parties agreed to keep the amount confidential, in
part to protect the families from unwanted solicitations and to
allow them to move on from this difficult period,” the Toyota
City, Japan-based automaker said today in an e-mailed statement.
“Mr. Baker now wants the amount publicized in an apparent
effort to shift the focus away from his dealership as he
continues to litigate this case with the families.”  Toyota issued the statement after the Los Angeles Times
reported the settlement amount earlier today.  Acceleration Lawsuits  Toyota lost a bid on Dec. 10 in federal court in Santa Ana,
California, to dismiss lawsuits claiming personal injuries or
deaths were caused by incidents of sudden acceleration.  The automaker is accused in the lawsuits of failing to
disclose or warn of a defect in its vehicles that could cause
sudden acceleration. Toyota said in court filings that the
plaintiffs didn’t offer specific allegations of an actual defect
and that the company didn’t conceal anything.  Toyota faces about 400 lawsuits alleging lost vehicle value
or injury or death from sudden acceleration.  Saylor, 45, his wife, their 13-year-old daughter and his
brother-in-law died Aug. 28, 2009, when the Lexus they had on
loan while his car was being serviced at the dealer crashed.  Toyota  has  recalled  more than 8 million vehicles for
repairs related to sudden unintended acceleration. In September
2009, the automaker announced a recall of 3.8 million Toyota and
Lexus vehicles because of a defect that may cause floor mats to
jam accelerator pedals. The company later recalled vehicles over
defects involving the pedals themselves.  Accelerator Stuck  According to the March 2  lawsuit  filed by Saylor’s family,
the Lexus accelerated on its own and reached speeds of more than
100 miles an hour when it came to the end of a freeway and broke
through a fence. In a 911 emergency call that Saylor’s brother-
in-law made from the car before the crash, he said that the
car’s accelerator was stuck, according to the complaint.  Toyota said in today’s statement that a December 2009 San
Diego County Sheriff’s Department report on the crash
“determined that the cause was an incompatible all-weather
floor mat from a Lexus SUV model that was installed incorrectly
in the ES 350 sedan at the dealership.”  The report concluded that the accelerator pedal became
trapped either in the grooves of mat, which is larger and
thicker than the correct mat for the sedan, or underneath it,
according to Toyota’s statement. The report also found that
clips to hold the mat in place were not attached, which could
have allowed it to move forward, Toyota said.  Willis said that he disagreed with the report’s
conclusions, which he said were only preliminary, and that a
subsequent investigation indicated that the accident may have
been caused by an electronic problem with the vehicle.  Toyota American depositary receipts, which represent two
ordinary shares, fell 2 cents to $77.67 at 3:40 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  The case is John Saylor v. Toyota Motor Corp., 37-2010-
00086718, California Superior Court, San Diego County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 