-- Parrett, Former Fugitive Facing 25 Years in Prison, Apologizes to Judge
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-12-23T16:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/parrett-former-fugitive-facing-25-years-in-prison-apologizes-to-judge.html
Rebecca Parrett , the former National
Century Financial Enterprises Inc. executive who fled the U.S.
to avoid going to prison for fraud, apologized to the judge who
gave her a 25-year term and said she went to Mexico to die.  Parrett, 62, was arrested Oct. 26 by Mexican immigration
authorities in the resort town of Ajijic, Jalisco, more than
2 1/2 years after disappearing. She was convicted in Columbus,
Ohio, in March 2008 for her role in a fraud at National Century,
a defunct health-care financing company. Days later, while on
bail, she fled her home in Carefree, Arizona.  Parrett appeared today before U.S. District Judge  Algenon Marbley , who had sentenced her in absentia in March 2009 and
imposed a $2.38 billion restitution order on her. She said she
was innocent of the corporate-fraud charges. Parrett said had
been sick and on medication when she was convicted at trial.  “When you said guilty, I just felt like my body went into a
black hole,” said Parrett, who was shackled and in khaki jail
garb. “I just did not want to live anymore. So my course to
Mexico was not to escape. My course to Mexico was to die, your
honor. But that didn’t happen either.”  Parrett was convicted with four other executives of fraud,
money laundering and conspiracy. A former vice chairman,
secretary and treasurer, she is one of 10 executives who were
convicted at trial or pleaded guilty. On the day he sentenced
Parrett, Marbley imposed a 30-year term on former Chief
Executive Officer  Lance Poulsen .  ‘I Am Innocent’  “I am innocent,” said Parrett, who has curly red hair and
stands 4-feet 11-inches. “You have the power and the authority
to take my personal freedom. But my spiritual freedom, your
honor, is protected forever by my lord and savior, Jesus Christ.
I am sorry for what I did but I am innocent.”  After Parrett’s arrest, Deputy U.S. Marshal Brian Babtist
said she was “living in the lap of luxury” in Ajijic on the
north shore of  Lake Chapala . She used an alias and told people
she was an American who testified against others in a large
white-collar crime case, he said. She went out dancing and got
treatments from a Mexican anti-aging doctor, Babtist said.  Marbley chastised Parrett for her actions and said her
“protestations quite frankly fall upon deaf ears.” He said
U.S. marshals spent thousands of hours pursuing her.  “You changed your mind somewhere between Arizona and
Mexico about going to Mexico to die because it sounds like
someone who planned to live a long and prosperous life in
Mexico,” the judge said. “It doesn’t sound like someone who
was so despondent about being innocent and convicted that you
decided to take your own life.”  Ailing Mother  In July, Parrett’s sister, Linda Case, was sentenced to six
months in prison followed by eight months of home confinement
for lying about her whereabouts. Case planned to take her ailing
mother to see Parrett in Mexico, authorities said.  Marbley said, “If you are going to apologize to anyone,
you should begin with your sister.” Instead of accepting
prison, he said, “you took the other road, which resulted in
your sister being dragged down and having to spend six months in
prison.”  Parrett said that when she got to Mexico, she filled out
papers to be cremated. A doctor there cured her of pneumonia and
took her off of medication as her health improved, she said.  “I no longer wanted to kill myself, no,” she said. “So
what started out as one thing ended as something different.”  The judge asked if she thought her escape was illegal.  “Yes, I did,” she said. “But had I gone down there with
the intent of staying and living a long time, I certainly would
have taken a lot more money with me and been able to survive. I
was volunteering in a mission. I was trying to help people.”  Sixth Husband  Marbley revealed that before fleeing, Parrett left $100,000
with her sixth husband, Gary Greene, who then forwarded some of
it to her in Mexico.  After the hearing, Assistant U.S. Attorney  Douglas Squires 
said Greene hadn’t been charged in any public document.  “Anybody who helped Parrett is the subject of an intense,
ongoing investigation,” Squires said.  He said prosecutors didn’t expect to file new charges
against Parrett for her escape because the judge had already
given her additional time.  At the hearing, Marbley remanded Parrett to the U.S.
marshals until she is assigned to a prison.  Parrett was the subject of a multistate search by U.S.
marshals and was  featured  on the website of “America’s Most
Wanted,” News Corp.’s Fox television show about fugitives.  Unpaid Receivables  National Century, based in Dublin, Ohio, helped hospitals
and medical groups raise money by buying their unpaid insurance
bills. The company then sold bonds that were supposed to be
backed by those receivables. Prosecutors said the receivables
were often worthless. The company filed for bankruptcy in 2002.  National Century’s collapse hastened the bankruptcies of
275 hospitals, clinics and other health-care providers,
authorities said. Victims included Pacific Investment Management
Co., the world’s largest bond fund.  Pimco  lost $283 million and
 Credit Suisse Group AG  lost $257 million, prosecutors said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  agreed to pay $425 million in 2006 to
settle claims by National Century noteholders in Arizona. The
noteholders said JPMorgan and other banks underwrote or were
trustees of the notes used to defraud investors.  The case is U.S. v. Poulsen, 06-129, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Ohio (Columbus).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 