-- Payments Rising to $7 Billion Next Year Spur New Offer: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2010-12-23T20:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/payments-rising-to-7-billion-next-year-spur-new-offer-argentina-credit.html
Argentina is attempting to persuade
debt holders to accept a swap offer for the second time this
year as the government seeks to regain access to international
markets with $7 billion of foreign obligations due next year.  Bonds rose after the government reopened the offer
yesterday with similar terms to a June restructuring that
exchanged $12.2 billion of defaulted notes. The extra yield
investors demand to hold Argentine dollar bonds instead of U.S.
Treasuries fell 319 basis points since June 1 to 495, or 252
basis points above the average for all emerging markets debt,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  is seeking to win
over bondholders as interest and principal payments on external
debt escalate $400 million next year to $7 billion, which the
government will likely cover by using reserves, according to
 Eduardo Suarez , an emerging-markets strategist at RBC Capital
Markets in Toronto. Lawsuits by creditors holding $4 billion in
defaulted notes and seeking full repayment remain a hurdle for
the government, he said.  “They will need to sell bonds at some point, unless they
want to continue to use reserves” to make debt payments, Suarez
said in a telephone interview. The new proposal “is a signal to
creditors that Argentina is trying to become more market
friendly, but it won’t solve the lawsuit issue,” he said.  Benchmark dollar bonds due in December 2033 rose for a
fifth day yesterday, with the yield falling to 9.02 percent, the
lowest since Nov. 11. The  average yield  on Argentine dollar
bonds dropped almost two percentage points, or 200 basis points,
this year to 8.88 percent yesterday as Fernandez restructured
debt and record-low interest rates in the U.S. and Europe
spurred demand for the country’s securities.  Gesture to Bondholders  The terms of the offer won’t give creditors par bonds or
past-due interest on notes due in 2017 that were issued in this
year’s swap, Finance Secretary  Hernan Lorenzino  said in a
telephone interview in Buenos Aires yesterday.  “This is a gesture to bondholders who didn’t
participate,” said Lorenzino, 38. “Argentina is demonstrating
its willingness to offer a solution and leave the default
behind.”  As debt payments climb in 2011, Fernandez plans to draw
$7.5 billion from foreign  reserves  to cover the obligations, up
from $6.6 billion this year, according to the 2011 federal
budget.  Dollar inflows from a record 55 million metric ton soy bean
harvest this year are helping Argentina offset the payments.
Regular central bank dollar buying lifted reserves $2.2 billion
this year to a record $52.35 billion yesterday.  Record Reserves  “With the commodities environment and inflows still
supportive, Argentina will continue to build reserves,” Suarez
said. “I’m not saying it’s a risk yet, but it’s certainly a
risk that’s out there.”  The government has no participation target for the
reopening offer, which will be managed exclusively by the Buenos
Aires-based Caja de Valores SA and is open to creditors
worldwide, Lorenzino said in the interview.  “Every bondholder who enters is one lawsuit that gets
dropped or one less lawsuit in the future,” Lorenzino said.
“From our perspective, that’s positive.”  Creditors including Styrofoam cup magnate  Kenneth Dart  and
Elliott Management Corp., a New York-based hedge fund, are suing
Argentina in international courts for repayment of the debt.  Elliott and Dart  Switzerland’s foreign ministry will decide whether a $1
billion claim by Elliott’s NML Capital Ltd. and Dart’s EM Ltd.
on Argentine assets at Basel, Switzerland-based Bank for
International Settlements, is admissible, Zurich-based newspaper
Tages-Anzeiger reported today.  “This is an ongoing process on which we are unable to
provide detailed information,” Adrian Sollberger, a Foreign
Ministry spokesman, told Bloomberg by e-mail from the capital,
Bern. BIS spokeswoman  Marisa Bourtin  also declined to comment.  The new offer, for which $6.1 billion of bonds are
eligible, closes on Dec. 30, according to a resolution in
yesterday’s official gazette. Creditors holding about $4 billion
of securities are seeking full repayment through lawsuits,
Lorenzino said. Prior to the June exchange, former President
 Nestor Kirchner  restructured about 75 percent of the debt in
2005.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 3.977 at 3:23 p.m. New York
time. It’s down 4.5 percent this year.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the government’s
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 5 basis points
to 490, according to JPMorgan.  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring Argentine bonds against default for
five years fell 12 basis points yesterday to 606, according to
CMA DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to comply with debt
agreements.  The year-end swap bid is unlikely to resolve Argentina’s
default, said  Arturo Porzecanski , an international finance
professor at American University in Washington. The proposal may
have been requested by investors who missed the June deadline,
he said.  “It won’t cure the default because the bulk of the
bondholders who didn’t enter has consolidated into a hard core
of litigants who have judgments and have won lawsuits,”
Porzecanski said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  