-- Exxon Buys Petrohawk’s Arkansas Shale for $650 Million
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-12-23T21:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/petrohawk-energy-sells-assets-to-exxon-mobil-unit-for-575-mln.html
  Exxon Mobil Corp ., the largest
company by market value, agreed to pay $650 million for  Petrohawk Energy Corp .’s natural-gas wells and pipelines in the
Fayetteville Shale, its second shale purchase this year.  The Arkansas assets produce about 98 million cubic feet of
gas a day, Houston-based Petrohawk said today in a statement.
The sale of the wells, valued at $575 million, is complete and
has an Oct. 1 effective date, according to the statement.  Exxon also agreed to buy pipelines that collect gas from
 Fayetteville Shale  wells for $75 million. That sale is subject
to regulatory approval and expected to close early next year,
Petrohawk said.  Exxon Mobil, based in Irving,  Texas , in June bought XTO
Energy for $35 billion including debt to add expertise and
holdings in shale deposits, where new technology has reversed a
decline in U.S. gas production and swelled reserves.  “The logic behind the purchase of XTO and the purchase of
this acreage is very much in parallel,” said Pavel Molchanov, a
Houston-based analyst for Raymond James & Associates Inc. who
rates Exxon’s shares at “market perform” and owns none. “This
represents an increase of about 40 percent in acreage they own
in the Fayetteville Shale.”  Exxon is paying Petrohawk about $1.92 for each thousand
cubic feet of estimated proved reserves, around 36 percent less
than it paid for XTO, Molchanov said. That’s to be expected
because gas prices have fallen 21 percent since the XTO purchase
was announced more than a year ago, he said. This transaction is
also smaller and more focused, Molchanov said.  Petrohawk’s Rising Costs  Shale formations consist of dense rock that can be broken
apart using water, sand and chemicals to release oil or gas.
Fayetteville held the  third-largest reserves  among U.S. shale
formations in 2009, according to the Energy Information
Administration.  Petrohawk said last month it might sell its Arkansas
operations, with proved reserves estimated at the end of 2009 at
299 billion cubic feet. The company told investors on Nov. 2 it
was increasing its 2010 capital budget by 20 percent to cover
higher gas well costs in the Eagle Ford and in the Haynesville
Shale of northwest  Louisiana  and northeast Texas.  Exxon rose 40 cents to $73.20 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Petrohawk fell 33 cents, or
1.8 percent, to $18.28.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch advised Petrohawk on both
sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at   tinadavis@bloomberg.net . 