-- Picasso $106.5 Million Nude, Feisty Ai Weiwei Star in 2010
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2010-12-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/picasso-106-5-million-nude-feisty-ai-weiwei-star-in-2010-martin-gayford.html
The age of austerity has been a
jolly time for the art world, so far at least.  For  Picasso , the year brought a record price for any work
of art at auction when his 1932 painting “Nude, Green Leaves
and Bust” sold for $106.5 million at Christie’s International
in New York in May. It’s a fine work, though some, including his
biographer  John Richardson , prefer “Nude in Black Armchair,”
which the artist painted the following day (March 9, 1932).  As a reward for one day’s work, $106.5 million may be a
record in itself, although admittedly Picasso would have had to
reach the age of 128, and kept hold of the picture, to reap it.
Still, he may posthumously be experiencing some satisfaction.  Giacometti , on the other hand, might have been miffed by
his own prices. His bronze sculpture “Walking Man I” fetched
the equivalent of $103.4 million at Sotheby’s in London on Feb.
3 -- only just missing the world record of $104.2 million, for a
Picasso, in 2004. An austere man who worked and lived in a tiny
Paris apartment with an earth floor, Giacometti was intensely
competitive with Picasso.  Living artists who made an impression this year included
James Turrell, whose spectacular exhibition at  Gagosian ,
Britannia St., London, included a large white sphere into which
visitors were inserted, one by one, to experience a mind-blowing
sound-and-light installation. Another of the autumn’s art hits
was “The Clock” by Christian Marclay at  White Cube .  Addictive Viewing  This consisted of a continuously screened, 24-hour collage
of film clips in each of which a character looked at a watch or
glanced at a clock. The time on the screen was the real time at
that moment. It was strangely addictive viewing. Both shows
underlined the message that the big commercial galleries now put
on shows that rival public museums in ambition and expense.  That competition can only heat up when -- as has been
announced -- the powerful  Pace Gallery  of New York opens
premises in London next spring. Already, White Cube and Gagosian
had Tate outgunned this year in the contemporary-art wars. The
Turner Prize was a quiet, almost lackluster affair, while the
Unilever Series sculpture commission in the Turbine Hall at  Tate
Modern , “Sunflower Seeds” by the Chinese artist Ai Weiwei, ran
into health and safety trouble.  Dust from the installation, which consists of around 100
million ceramic models of seeds, was deemed a hazard when walked
upon. The public was banned from close contact with the work on
Oct. 16. This was a disaster, since the point of the work is to
walk or sit upon it. From a distance, it looks like gray gravel.  Artist Arrest  Poor  Ai Weiwei , a brave and outspoken critic of the Chinese
government, had a tough autumn altogether. His new studio in
Shanghai was demolished for planning infringements, and he was
placed under house arrest. A move he claimed was aimed at
preventing him attending an (ironic) party to mark this event.  Although there were reverses, contemporary art continues to
advance worldwide. In Rome, a striking new Museum of Art of the
21st Century or  MAXXI , designed by  Zaha Hadid , opened on May 30
and won the RIBA Stirling Prize in October. As the year ends,
 Mathaf : Arab Museum of Modern Art, opens in Doha, capital of
oil-rich Qatar, on Dec. 30. Going into the second decade of the
21st century, art -- like health and safety regulation --
remains a potent force.  ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. His most recent book is “Man
With a Blue Scarf: On Sitting for a Portrait by Lucian Freud.”
The  opinions  expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 