-- Portugal Debt Rating Downgraded as Fitch Says Recession May Loom in 2011
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-12-24T09:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/portugal-s-long-term-issuer-default-rating-is-cut-to-a-from-aa-by-fitch.html
Portugal’s debt rating was
downgraded one level by Fitch Ratings, which said the economy
faces a “deteriorating” outlook as the government struggles to
curb the euro region’s fourth-largest budget deficit.  The long-term foreign and local currency issuer default
rating was lowered to A+, the fifth-highest level, from AA-,
Fitch said in a statement yesterday. The outlook is negative.
Fitch on March 24 cut the rating by one step to AA-. The company
said in a separate report that there is a risk the European
Union will need to rescue other euro member states after
bailouts of Ireland and Greece.  “The downgrade reflects an even slower reduction in the
current account deficit and a much more difficult financing
environment for the Portuguese government and banks than
incorporated into Fitch’s previous rating and the negative
outlook assigned on 24 March 2010, as well as a deteriorating
near-term economic outlook,” the rating company said.  The Portuguese government plans to cut state workers’ wages
and raise taxes to convince investors it can narrow the budget
gap, after the Greek debt crisis led to a surge in borrowing
costs for high-deficit nations. Ireland became the second euro
country to seek a bailout and the first to request aid from the
European Financial Stability Facility last month.  Yield Spread  The  difference  in yield between Portuguese 10-year bonds
and German bunds, Europe’s benchmark, reached a euro-era record
of 483 basis points on Nov. 11. The spread was at 364 basis
points yesterday.  The rating downgrade announced by Fitch is “difficult to
understand” at the present time as Portugal’s 2011 budget has
been approved and its banking system is “solid and resilient,”
the Finance Ministry said yesterday in a comment sent by e-mail.  “The structural budget adjustment targeted for 2011 --
equivalent to almost four percent of GDP -- will be extremely
challenging especially if, as Fitch expects, the economy falls
into recession next year,” the rating company said in
yesterday’s statement.  The government is taking the necessary measures so that it
doesn’t have to request aid, Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos  said on Dec. 15. Portugal doesn’t face any bond
redemptions until April and has completed this year’s sales of
debt. Borrowing costs rose at a Dec. 15 sale of 500 million
euros ($655 million) of three-month bills.  Market Funding  “The government has demonstrated that it can retain access
to market funding, albeit at a high cost, during crises,” Fitch
said. “The current ratings are premised on the Portuguese
government retaining market access and do not assume that it
seeks external financial support under an EU-IMF program.”  Moody’s Investors Service on Dec. 21 said Portugal’s bond
rating may be downgraded one or two levels because of concerns
that budget cuts will worsen the country’s “sluggish” economic
growth. Moody’s cut Portugal’s credit rating two steps to A1 on
July 13.  Standard & Poor’s said on Nov. 30 it may lower the
country’s rating, having already cut it to A- from A+ in April.
S&P yesterday affirmed France’s AAA rating.  The credit rating companies are also reviewing other
countries. Moody’s said on Dec. 15 it may cut Spain’s Aa1 credit
rating and on Dec. 16 said it placed Greece’s Ba1 bond ratings
on review for a possible downgrade. Ireland’s credit rating was
cut by five levels by Moody’s on Dec. 17.  ‘Systemic’ Crisis  Fitch said in a separate report yesterday that the crisis
is “systemic” and shows concerns on the viability of the
single currency as a whole.  “While the euro zone’s underlying credit fundamentals are
stronger than current levels of risk pricing indicate, Fitch
believes that the crisis is systemic in as much as it reflects
concerns about the viability of the euro as well as country-
specific vulnerabilities,” the ratings company said in London.  Portugal is counting on exports such as paper and wood
products to support economic expansion as it cuts spending. The
budget forecasts GDP growth of 0.2 percent in 2011, slower than
this year’s estimated 1.3 percent pace. Portugal’s  economic
growth  has averaged less than 1 percent a year in the past
decade, one of Europe’s weakest growth rates.  “Evidence that the economy was on a sustainable recovery
path, supported by adherence to the government’s fiscal
consolidation targets, could result in a revision in the rating
outlook to stable,” Fitch said yesterday.  Portugal’s 2011 budget includes the deepest spending cuts
in more than three decades. In September, the government said it
would trim the wage bill by 5 percent for public-sector workers
earning more than 1,500 euros a month, freeze hiring and raise
value-added sales tax by 2 percentage points to 23 percent to
help narrow a deficit that amounted to 9.3 percent of gross
domestic product in 2009.  The country posted the biggest shortfall in the 16-nation
euro region last year after Ireland, Greece and Spain. It aims
to cut its budget deficit to 7.3 percent of GDP this year, 4.6
percent in 2011, and to reach the EU limit of 3 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 