-- Benitez Fired as Coach of European Champion Inter Milan After Six Months
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-12-23T14:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/rafael-benitez-dismissed-as-inter-milan-coach-after-six-months-in-the-job.html
European soccer champion Inter Milan
fired coach  Rafael Benitez  six months after he was appointed and
five days after he led the team to the Club World Cup title.  Inter said on its website it reached an agreement with
Benitez for the early termination of his contract. The 50-year-
old Spaniard joined on a two-year deal after he left English
Premier League club Liverpool following a six-year stint there.  “I’m sorry about ending the relationship with Benitez, but
the separation became inevitable,” Inter President  Massimo Moratti  was cited as saying by Italian news agency Ansa. “All
of the names circulating about his successor are interesting.”  Brazil’s Leonardo, a former AC Milan coach, is the favorite
to replace Benitez, La Gazzetta dello Sport said yesterday.
Zenit St. Petersburg’s Italian coach  Luciano Spalletti  has also
been linked with the post.  Benitez never matched the success his predecessor  Jose Mourinho  achieved in leading Inter to the Serie A, Italian Cup
and Champions League titles last season. The Portuguese coach
left to join Real Madrid.  Inter has slipped to seventh place in Serie A under
Benitez, winning six of 15 league games. It’s 13 points behind
leader AC Milan in Serie A. After victory in the FIFA Club World
Cup last weekend, Benitez criticized the club’s management for
failing to give him sufficient funds to bring in new players,
saying “four or five” might be needed. He also suggested the
club could get a new coach if it was unhappy with him.  Severance Payoffs  In recent days, Benitez returned to England where he still
has a house near Liverpool. News reports said he was trying to
agree on a financial package with Inter to leave the club.  He’s getting a severance payment of 3 million euros ($3.9
million), according to Ansa. U.K. press reports said he got at
least 4 million pounds ($6.2 million) when he left Liverpool in
June.  Inter, which will face Bayern Munich after qualifying for
the last 16 of the Champions League, defeated the German team in
the final when it won the elite competition last season under
Mourinho. Inter won the Club World Cup -- a much less
prestigious competition -- by beating Congolese team TP Mazembe
Englebert 3-0 in the final in Abu Dhabi on Dec. 18.  “Inter thanks Rafael Benitez for his work in leading his
team to success in the Italian Super Cup and the FIFA Club World
Cup,” Inter said. Benitez thanked Inter for the “important
professional experience and for the victories achieved
together,” the club added.  Benitez led 18-time English league winner Liverpool to the
final of the Champions League twice -- winning the trophy in
2005 -- and took the F.A. Cup in 2006. However, he failed to win
the domestic league title for the Reds, who haven’t secured it
since 1990. In 2008-09 the club came second in the Premier
League behind Manchester United, but slumped to seventh last
season, the worst placing in 11 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  