-- Rahn Emanuel Has Chicago Residency for Mayoral Ballot, Commission Rules
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-12-23T22:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/rahm-emanuel-meets-chicago-residency-requirement-to-contest-mayoral-ballot.html
Rahm Emanuel , President  Barack Obama ’s former chief of staff, is a Chicago resident and can run
for mayor, election commissioners decided.  The  Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago 
made its ruling today, the Associated Press reported. At issue
was whether Emanuel met the requirement of having lived in
Chicago for one year before the election.  Burt Odelson , the attorney leading the drive to get Emanuel
kicked off the mayoral ballot, said he will appeal the board’s
ruling in court, according to the AP.  “I knew this was going to happen,” Odelson said,
according to the news service. “The facts are the facts. The
law is the law, but it depends on how you interpret the law.”  The root of the Emanuel dispute is the 2009 decision by the
former Chicago-area congressman to vacate his seat and accept
Obama’s appointment as White House chief of staff. Emanuel and
his family moved to Washington in early 2009 and rented their
North Side home.  Emanuel maintains he always intended to come back to
Chicago. At a three-day hearing last week, he cited china, photo
albums and a wedding dress that his wife and he left at the
house when they moved to Washington.  “The candidate in 2009 and 2010 did not abandon his status
as a resident of Chicago, and so remained a resident of
Chicago,” Joseph A. Morris, the hearing officer who presided
over the session, wrote in an advisory opinion released today
before the board’s ruling.  Intent to Return  Commissioner Richard Cowen, a Republican, said he agreed
with Morris’s conclusion that Emanuel always intended to return,
the AP reported.  “Rahm Emanuel said he was coming back to Chicago,” Cowen
said, according to the news service. “The issue is not whether
he was a resident at the time he was appointed chief of staff.
The issue is whether he abandoned his residency.”  Emanuel said in a statement before the board ruled that
Morris’s opinion “affirms what I have said all along -- that
the only reason I left town was to serve President Obama and
that I always intended to return.”  Emanuel, 51, is seeking to succeed retiring Mayor  Richard M. Daley  in a field of candidates that includes U.S.
Representative  Danny Davis ; City Clerk Miguel del Valle; former
Chicago school board President  Gery Chico ; and former U.S.
Senator  Carol Moseley Braun .  Illinois state Senator  James Meeks , minister of one of the
city’s largest churches, dropped out of the race today, saying
that the remaining four black candidates are splitting the
community’s vote and diluting its power, according to the
website of WGN and the Chicago Tribune.  Without a Home  Opponents say Emanuel isn’t qualified to run because he has
no permanent home in Chicago. Odelson noted that  David Axelrod ,
a senior adviser to Obama, kept his Chicago house without
renting it when he moved to the nation’s capital.  Emanuel’s current residency was complicated by the refusal
of the tenants in his home, Robert and Lori Halpin, to move out
before their lease expires in June. He is currently renting
another residence in Chicago, while his family remains in
Washington.  Emanuel held an early lead in the mayoral race, according
to a poll released Dec. 15 by the Chicago Tribune. He won the
support of 32 percent of those questioned, with 30 percent
undecided. All other candidates ranked in the single digits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Jones  in Chicago at 
 Tjones58@bloomberg.net :
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  