-- Treasuries Bound for Weekly Decline Before U.S. Economic Data is Released
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-12-23T12:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/treasuries-bound-for-weekly-decline-before-u-s-economic-data-is-released.html
Treasury 10-year notes headed for
the longest streak of weekly losses in 19 months before a report
economists said will show consumer spending gained last month,
stoking speculation the central bank will slow asset purchases.  Five-year notes declined for a second day amid concern
money printing by the Federal Reserve will fuel inflation and
sap demand for fixed-income assets as the economy recovers. The
Fed may need to slow or stop its so-called quantitative easing
program in response to an accelerating economy next year,
Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said yesterday.
Yields indicate traders are adding to bets inflation will
quicken as the economic outlook improves.  “The economic data has been much better than predicted,
pointing to the fact that the bullish fixed-income market is
behind us,” said  Matteo Regesta , a fixed-income strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in London. “The landscape will be one of higher
yields from here.”  The benchmark 10-year yield advanced one basis point to
3.36 percent as of 6:43 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor
Market Data. The price of the 2.625 percent security maturing in
November 2020 fell 1/32 or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount to 93
28/32. The two-year yield was little changed at 0.64 percent,
while that on the 1.375 percent security due 2015 increased one
basis point to 2.02 percent.  Government Borrowing  Ten-year yields have climbed almost half a percentage point
in the past four weeks and are set for the longest run of
increases since May 2009, when rates completed a seven-week gain
on concern government borrowing would overwhelm demand.  Treasuries handed investors a 2.1 percent loss this month,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The last
time U.S. sovereign debt fell more in a month was in December
2009, when it dropped 2.6 percent.  Spending by U.S. consumers, which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy, rose 0.5 percent after a 0.4 percent
gain in October, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before the data today.  Bed Bath &
Beyond Inc. , the Union, New Jersey-based home-products retailer,
yesterday increased its earnings  forecast .  A separate report may show bookings for  durable goods ,
excluding cars and planes, advanced 1.8 percent.  The  difference  between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the securities, was at 2.31
percentage points today, from this year’s low of 1.47 percentage
points in August. The average for the past five years is 2.09
percentage points.  Fed Reaction  “If the growth rate of the economy continues to strengthen
and looks sustainable, then I am going to be looking for the Fed
to react to that,” Plosser said yesterday in an interview on
Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage,” with  Kathleen Hays .
“That may be to cut back on the degree of accommodation in a
gradual way. One way would be to begin stopping some of the
purchases or slowing them down.”  The Fed plans to add $600 billion to the economy by buying
Treasury securities, while President  Barack Obama  agreed to
extend tax cuts to spur growth.  The Treasury is scheduled to announce today the sizes of
two-, five- and seven-year auctions scheduled for next week.  It will probably sell $99 billion of notes, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of 13 primary dealers, unchanged from
November’s auctions of the securities.  December’s advance in U.S. yields reflects expectations for
economic growth, said  Peter Jolly , the Sydney-based head of
market research for the investment-banking unit of National
Australia Bank Ltd., the nation’s largest lender. Inflation has
been held in check, and that will support bonds, he said.  Preferred Price  “The U.S. economy, although it is recovering, has very
little inflation,” Jolly said. “Yields have risen quite a long
way. There’s a fair bit of the recovery story in yields.”  Today’s spending report will also show the Fed’s preferred
price measure, which excludes food and fuel, rose 0.9 percent
from a year earlier, economists said. The figure would match
October’s, which was the smallest since records began in 1960.  Ten-year rates will decline to 3.3 percent by March 31 and
then advance to 4 percent by the end of 2011, Jolly said.  A Bloomberg survey of banks and securities companies
projects the yield will rise to 3.53 by the close of next year,
with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.
Investors who bought today would earn 2 percent, reflecting both
price declines and interest payments, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Client Withdrawals  Bond mutual funds had the biggest client withdrawals in
more than two years last week.  U.S. bond funds experienced withdrawals of $8.62 billion in
the seven days ended Dec. 15, up from $1.66 billion the week
before, according to the Investment Company Institute, a
Washington-based trade group.  Financial markets are closed today in Japan for a holiday.
Trading of Treasuries is scheduled to stop at 2 p.m. in New York
and stay shut tomorrow worldwide for Christmas, according to the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association website.  U.K. trading will remain closed Dec. 27 and Dec. 28 in
observance of Christmas and Boxing Day, according to the
association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  