-- Treasury 10-Year Notes Head for Fourth Weekly Drop on U.S. Recovery Signs
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-12-23T19:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/treasuries-remain-lower-after-reports-show-u-s-recovery-strengthening.html
Treasuries dropped, pushing 10-year
note yields to their longest stretch of weekly increases in 19
months, after reports showed initial jobless claims fell and
consumer spending advanced.  The benchmark  yields  rose for a fourth week as the
government said it will auction $99 billion in notes next week,
the same amount sold in the previous two months. U.S. debt has
handed investors a 2.1 percent loss this month, the most since
December 2009, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index shows.  “We should drift to higher rates with supply next week,”
said  Jason Rogan , director of U.S. government trading in New
York at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a brokerage for institutional
investors. “We are in the typical holiday trading zone, so no
big bets will be put on until the new year.”  The 10-year note yield advanced four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 3.39 percent at 1:59 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 2.625
percent security maturing in November 2020 dropped 9/32, or
$2.81 per $1,000 face amount, to 93 21/32.  Ten-year yields touched a seven-month high of 3.56 percent
on Dec. 16 and had their longest stretch of weekly  increases 
since May 2009, when they completed a seven-week gain on concern
government borrowing would overwhelm demand. The yield increased
six basis points this week.  Trading  of Treasuries stopped at 2 p.m. in New York and will
stay shut tomorrow worldwide for observance of Christmas. U.K.
trading will remain closed Dec. 27 and Dec. 28 in observance of
Christmas and Boxing Day.  Treasury Volume  About $165 billion of  Treasuries  changed hands yesterday
through ICAP Plc, the lowest level since Nov. 26, which was the
day after U.S. Thanksgiving, according to data from the world’s
largest inter-dealer broker. The average daily volume this year
has been $251 billion.  The Treasury announced today that it will auction
$35 billion in two-year notes on Dec. 27, the same amount of
five-year debt the next day and $29 billion in seven-year
securities on Dec. 29.  “Next week is all about supply, and that is what the
market will start turning to,” said  David Ader , head of
government bond strategy in Stamford, Connecticut, at CRT
Capital Group LLC. “The economic data has improved enough to
make us believe that the double-dip risk has decreased, but at
the same time there is more balanced information here than meets
the eye. We still have 9.8 percent unemployment and very low
inflation. The market is trying to find some stability. We
should be in a broad range of 2.75 percent to 3.75 percent for
next year.”  Jobless Claims  Initial  filings  for unemployment insurance decreased by
3,000 to 420,000 in the week ended Dec. 18, matching the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, Labor Department figures
showed today. Those already collecting benefits fell in the
previous week to 4.06 million.  The U.S. jobless rate rose in November to 9.8 percent, the
highest level since April, while hours worked and earnings
stagnated, the Labor Department reported Dec. 3.  Household purchases advanced 0.4 percent last month after a
0.7 percent increase in October that was almost twice as large
as previously estimated, the Commerce Department reported today.
The Federal Reserve’s preferred measure of inflation held at a
record low.  The  difference  between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the securities known as the
break-even rate, was little changed at 2.32 percentage points
today, compared with this year’s low of 1.47 percentage points.  Fed Debt Buying  The Fed purchased $26 billion in Treasuries this week as a
part of its effort to keep long-term interest rates low and
generate economic growth. Next week the central bank will
conduct two rounds of asset purchases, purchasing $6 billion to
$8 billion in notes maturing from June 2013 to November 2014 on
Dec. 28 and $4 billion to $6 billion of notes maturing from June
2012 to June 2013 on the following day.  The  central bank  bought $14.6 billion in debt in two
operations on Dec. 20, the biggest amount in a single day under
the second round of quantitative easing.  “Yields are moving higher as the Fed has been the only
buyer with the rest of the market on hold until the new year and
pressured from data that has been on the better side of weak,”
said  Paul Horrmann , a broker in New York at Tradition Asiel
Securities Inc., an interdealer broker. “Money is flowing out
of bond funds, and that sentiment, combined with supply, will
push yields higher into the end of the year.”  Bond mutual funds had the biggest client withdrawals in
more than two years last week. U.S. bond funds experienced
withdrawals of $8.62 billion in the seven days ended Dec. 15, up
from $1.66 billion the week before, according to the Investment
Company Institute, a Washington-based trade group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  