-- Treasuries Poised for Fourth Weekly Decline Before Report on U.S. Spending
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-12-23T06:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/treasuries-poised-for-fourth-weekly-decline-before-report-on-u-s-spending.html
Treasuries headed for a fourth
weekly decline, the longest losing streak in 19 months, before a
government report economists said will show consumer spending
gained last month.  The Federal Reserve may need to slow or stop its purchases
of Treasuries in response to an accelerating U.S. economy next
year, Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said. Yields
indicate traders are adding to bets inflation will quicken as
the economy improves.  “It’s hard for bond yields to fall,” said  Geoff Howie , a
senior vice president at MF Global Singapore Ltd., part of the
world’s largest broker of exchange-traded futures and options.
“You’re seeing consumer spending pick up, and you’re going to
see producers start passing on costs. You’re going to have an
inflation effect.”  Benchmark 10-year yields were little changed at 3.35
percent as of 6:47 a.m. in London, according to BGCantor Market
Data. The price of the 2.625 percent security maturing in
November 2020 was 93 30/32.  Yields have climbed almost half a percentage point in the
past four weeks, the longest run of increases since May 2009,
when rates completed a seven-week climb on concern government
borrowing would overwhelm demand.  Spending by U.S. consumers, which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy, rose 0.5 percent after a 0.4 percent
gain in October, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before the data today.  Bed Bath &
Beyond Inc. , the Union, New Jersey-based home- products
retailer, yesterday increased its earnings  forecast .  A separate report may show bookings for  durable goods
excluding  cars and planes advanced 1.8 percent.  Fed Reaction  The  difference  between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the securities, widened to
2.31 percentage points from this year’s low of 1.47 percentage
points in August. It’s above the five-year average of 2.09
percentage points.  “If the growth rate of the economy continues to strengthen
and looks sustainable, then I am going to be looking for the Fed
to react to that,” Plosser said yesterday in an interview on
Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage,” with  Kathleen Hays .
“That may be to cut back on the degree of accommodation in a
gradual way. One way would be to begin stopping some of the
purchases or slowing them down.”  The Fed plans to add $600 billion to the economy by buying
Treasury securities, while President Barack Obama agreed to
extend tax cuts to spur growth.  Auction Plans  The Treasury is scheduled to announce today the sizes of
two-, five- and seven-year auctions scheduled for next week.  It will probably sell $99 billion of notes, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of 13 primary dealers, unchanged from
November’s auctions of the securities.  The pound rose after Bank of England Markets Director Paul
Fisher said in a Daily Telegraph interview that the central bank
is seeking higher interest rates. The British currency advanced
0.2 percent to $1.5422.  December’s advance in U.S. yields reflects expectations for
economic growth, said Peter Jolly, the Sydney-based head of
market research for the investment-banking unit of National
Australia Bank Ltd., the nation’s largest lender. Inflation has
been held in check, and that will support bonds, he said.  ‘Little Inflation’  “The U.S. economy, although it is recovering, has very
little inflation,” Jolly said. “Yields have risen quite a long
way. There’s a fair bit of the recovery story in yields.”  Today’s spending report will also show the Fed’s preferred
price measure, which excludes food and fuel, rose 0.9 percent
from a year earlier, economists said. The figure would match
October’s, which was the smallest since records began in 1960.  Ten-year rates will decline to 3.3 percent by March 31 and
then advance to 4 percent by the end of 2011, Jolly said.  A Bloomberg survey of banks and securities companies
projects the yield will rise to 3.53 by the close of next year,
with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.
Investors who bought today would earn 2 percent, reflecting both
price declines and interest payments, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Client Withdrawals  Bond mutual funds had the biggest client withdrawals in
more than two years last week.  U.S. bond funds experienced withdrawals of $8.62 billion in
the seven days ended Dec. 15, up from $1.66 billion the week
before, according to the Investment Company Institute, a
Washington-based trade group.  Financial markets are closed today in Japan for a holiday.
Trading of Treasuries is scheduled to stop at 2 p.m. in New York
and stay shut tomorrow worldwide for Christmas, according to the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association website.  U.K. trading will remain closed Dec. 27 and Dec. 28 in
observance of Christmas and Boxing Day, according to the
association.  Treasuries handed investors a 2.1 percent loss this month,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The last
time U.S. sovereign debt fell more in a month was in December
2009, when it dropped 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 