-- Reliance Said to Shut Two Gas Wells, Cutting Output
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-12-23T11:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/reliance-said-to-shut-two-natural-gas-wells-off-india-cutting-production.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. , India’s
biggest company by market value, shut two natural gas wells last
week, cutting output by about 4 million cubic meters a day, two
people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Daily production at the Dhirubhai-1 and Dhirubhai-3 fields
will fall to 44 million cubic meters until the wells restart in
about three days, the people said, declining to be identified
because they aren’t authorized to speak to the media. Including
a third field called MA, total output in the KG-D6 area will
rise to as much as 54 million cubic meters a day when the
routine maintenance work is completed, they said.  The maintenance shutdown comes after the Mumbai-based
company was forced to cut gas production at KG-D6 from a maximum
level of 60 million standard cubic meters a day earlier this
year because of reduced pressure in the reservoir. Reliance is
banking on higher earnings from turning crude oil into fuels at
its Indian refineries and production from overseas oil and gas
fields to boost profits as local gas output declines.  Gas output at MA field is unchanged at 8 million cubic
meters a day of gas, and this field is also producing about
18,000 barrels a day of crude oil, the people said.  Reliance spokesman  Manoj Warrier  declined to comment in an
e-mail reply to questions.  S.K. Srivastava , the head of India’s
oil and gas regulator called the Directorate General of
Hydrocarbons, didn’t answer calls made to his mobile phone.  Reliance’s  shares  rose 0.3 percent to 1,059.40 rupees in
Mumbai trading today. The stock has declined 2.9 percent this
year compared with a 14.4 percent gain in the benchmark
 Sensitive Index  of the Bombay Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 