-- Rio Bids A$3.9 Billion for Coal Developer Riversdale
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-12-23T16:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/rio-raises-riversdale-offer-to-a-16-a-share-valuing-firm-at-3-9-billion.html
Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-
biggest mining company, offered A$3.9 billion ($3.9 billion) for
Australian coking coal developer  Riversdale Mining Ltd.  to gain
reserves in Mozambique, splitting Riversdale’s board.  Rio offered A$16 a share, the London-based company said
today in a statement. Riversdale shares climbed 1.6 percent to
close A$16.57 in Sydney, 3.6 percent more than Rio’s offer,
which was recommended by all of Riversdale’s board, bar the
director appointed by Tata Steel Ltd., its largest shareholder.  Buying Riversdale will raise Rio’s reserves of steelmaking
coal as demand climbs and mark a return to acquisitions after
its  purchase  of Alcan Inc. in 2007 saddled it with almost $40
billion of  debt  before the global financial crisis. Coal deals
in 2010 have more than doubled to $36 billion after imports by
China, the biggest consumer, surged fivefold in 2009.  “They’re underweight coking coal, so this was a clear gap
in their portfolio,” said  Prasad Patkar , who helps manage about
$1.8 billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney.
“Mozambique is regarded as the future of metallurgical coal,
and they’re getting a foothold there. Rio is back in M&A mode.”  The offer is 13 percent higher than the A$14.10 Riversdale
closed at on Dec. 3, the last trading day before it said Rio had
offered A$3.5 billion. Riversdale said Dec. 6 it had held talks
with Rio on a proposal at A$15 a share. Rio closed at A$87.20 in
Sydney. Rio is advised by Macquarie Group Ltd. and Riversdale by
UBS AG.  No Objection  A successful bid for control will need the support of at
least one of Riversdale’s major  shareholders , with the top-three
investors owning about 51 percent. These shareholders, Tata
Steel, Passport Capital LLC and Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA
were kept informed during the talks with Rio, Riversdale
Managing Director  Steve Mallyon  said in a phone interview.  “They haven’t raised one objection and in fact, they have
been pretty supportive,” he said. The holders, who are still
considering the offer, “are very conservative themselves and
Rio did need to convince them of what it would bring to the
table,” he said.  India’s Tata Steel holds a 24.2 percent stake as well as a
35 percent interest in Riversdale’s Benga project in Mozambique,
where exports are scheduled to start next year. Riversdale ended
talks with Wuhan Iron & Steel Corp. on a potential $800 million
investment by the Chinese steelmaker, Mallyon said.  Pre-Bid Accord  Rio has secured 14.9 percent of Riversdale’s shares in pre-
bid agreements with some shareholders, including senior
executives and institutional investors.  Narendra Kumar Misra ,
Tata’s representative on Riversdale’s board, abstained from
recommending Rio’s proposal, Riversdale said. Tata Steel’s Vice
Chairman B. Muthuraman declined to comment today.  India asked International Coal Ventures Ltd., comprising
state-run metal and energy companies, to consider bidding for
Riversdale,  Arup Roy Choudhury , chairman at India’s biggest
power producer NTPC Ltd., said Dec. 14. The venture may hire
bankers to make an offer and may meet soon with them, Chairman
C.S. Verma said yesterday.  “The fact that Rio hasn’t been able to get any of
Riversdale’s major shareholders across the line indicates they
are waiting for a better deal,”  Ben Potter , a market strategist
at IG Markets Ltd. in Melbourne, said. “If the assets are
attractive to Rio, then you can guarantee other major players
are doing their due diligence. We’d be surprised if $16 per
share was the winning bid.”  Rival Bids?  Other potential suitors include Vale SA, the world’s
biggest iron ore exporter, which has operations in Mozambique,
UBS AG said Dec.6 in a report. Vale, the world’s biggest iron
ore exporter, is building the Moatize coking coal mine in
Mozambique at a cost of $1.7 billion for the first stage.
Riversdale has not had approaches from any other company,
Riversdale’s Mallyon said.  Tata Steel has been buying Riversdale shares since the
third quarter of 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
when Riversdale shares were trading at an average of A$9.19. Its
most recent purchase was in the second quarter of this year when
shares averaged A$9.54. Tata will evaluate Rio’s offer “in the
context of other alternatives” available to it, Tata said in a
statement.  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional, Brazil’s third-largest
steelmaker, bought a 16.3 percent stake in Riversdale in
November 2009, paying A$6.10 for each share. The Rio de Janeiro-
based company now holds 13.2 percent after selling shares in the
first quarter of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
CSN has no comment to make, according to a press officer in Sao
Paulo, who declined to be named in line with company policy.  Mining Deals  Rio is paying 6.6 times the asset value of Riversdale,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the
1.9 times median of 10 comparable industry deals globally in the
past five years.  Global mining deals have more than doubled this year to
$142 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the highest since 2007’s $151 billion.  Global demand for coking coal may rise 16 percent to 259
million metric tons in 2010, UBS AG estimated. The market will
tighten further in 2011 and 2012 with an estimated deficit of 4
million to 6 million tons driven by demand from China and India,
UBS said.  A successful takeover by Rio would add 13 billion tons of
coking coal to its resources, split between Riversdale’s Zambeze
project and the Benga development, according to the Australian
miner’s  website . Zambeze may cost between $2.8 billion and $2.9
billion to develop and Zambeze may cost $950 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  