-- Romanian Prime Minister Boc Will Probably Survive No-Confidence Vote Today
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2010-12-23T06:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/romanian-prime-minister-boc-will-probably-survive-no-confidence-vote-today.html
Romanian Prime Minister  Emil Boc 
will probably survive the second attempt this week to topple him
over legislation needed to qualify for bailout payments.  Boc’s ruling coalition holds a majority in the 470-seat
parliament and will probably help him stay in power. A vote
supporting the premier would automatically approve a wage bill
that sets the pay scale for public workers. Boc asked lawmakers
to pass the bill in three days without debates, which enabled
the opposition to file the no-confidence motion.  "The motion won’t pass," Alexandru Cumpanasu, a political
analyst at the Association for Implementing Democracy in
Bucharest, said in a phone interview before the vote. "Coalition
members won’t betray the government. This government will pass
through parliament whatever they want at least until spring."  Romania, going through the second-deepest recession in the
European Union after Greece, passed the 2011 budget, a revised
pension law and a law setting 2011 wages to curb public
spending, narrow the budget deficit and satisfy the
International Monetary Fund and the European Union, from which
it secured a 20 billion-euro bailout last year to stay afloat
amid the worst recession on record in the country of 22 million.  The opposition has been trying to oust the government since
it cut public-sector wages by 25 percent and increased a value-
added tax to 24 percent to trim the budget deficit to qualify
for the terms of the bailout. The parties, with 215 votes, need
236 votes to topple the Cabinet.  The country stands to receive 2.4 billion euros in payments
through March from the bailout provided by the IMF, the EU and
the World Bank after the lawmakers approve the proposed laws.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  