-- Rousseff Passes First Fiscal Test as Brazil Lawmakers Curb Wage Increase
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-12-23T14:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/rousseff-passes-first-fiscal-test-as-brazil-approves-budget-minumum-wage.html
Brazil’s congress, with the support
of President-elect  Dilma Rousseff ’s team, approved a 5.9 percent
increase in the minimum wage, resisting pressure from labor
leaders for a bigger rise and signaling her commitment to
contain public spending next year.  Lawmakers approved last night the 2011 budget bill, which
lifts the monthly minimum wage to 540 reais ($318). Unions were
seeking a 14 percent increase. The country’s benchmark  inflation
index  is expected to rise 5.9 percent this year, according to
central bank estimates.  Policy makers are counting on a tighter fiscal policy next
year to help rein in inflation, which quickened to a 23-month
high in  mid-December , according to the central bank’s quarterly
inflation report published yesterday. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , who will continue in his post when Rousseff takes
office on Jan. 1, said in a Nov. 30 interview the government
will freeze at least 20 billion reais of the 2011 budget to help
ease demand.  “Dilma passed her first test, but this is still
insufficient to ensure a tighter fiscal policy next year,”
 Rafael Cortez , a political analyst at Sao Paulo-based Tendencias
Consultoria Integrada, said in a phone interview. “The next
test is whether the government will freeze part of planned
spending in 2011.”  Public Investment  Cortez said the government’s budget surplus before interest
payments is likely to increase to 2.8 percent of gross domestic
product in 2011 from 1.8 percent this year.  The budget bill, which still requires the president’s
signature to go into effect next year, forecasts 63.5 billion
reais in public investment.  Lawmakers added 12.1 billion reais to the government’s
original investment proposal while also adding 22.4 billion
reais to the bill’s revenue forecast, which is an estimate that
is not supported by the government.  Gilmar Machado , the ruling coalition’s vice-leader in
congress, said last night’s budget approval was a “mission
accomplished.” During negotiations, opposition parties demanded
more regulation of public investment and a larger revenue
forecast.  Planning Minister  Paulo Bernardo  said Dec. 14 that the
government would have to freeze some spending called for in the
2011 budget bill if tax collection falls short of forecasts next
year.  Debt Reduction  Rousseff has vowed to reduce Brazil’s net debt to
30 percent of GDP by 2014. According to the budget bill approved
today, net debt will fall to 36.8 percent of GDP in 2011, from
40.8 percent in 2010.  After being elected to succeed  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  as
the leader of Latin America’s biggest economy on Oct. 31,
Rousseff said her government will make every effort to cut debt
so Brazil’s interest rates, which are the highest among the
Group of 20 nations, can fall in a “sustainable” way.  Alexandre Tombini , who will succeed  Henrique Meirelles  as
president of the central bank, said Dec. 7 that Brazil needs to
create the conditions for its  inflation  target, currently at
4.5 percent a year, to fall to levels seen in other major
emerging countries.  The budget projects 5.5 percent economic growth, matching
the government forecast, and also assumes Brazil will meet its
targets of 4.5 percent inflation and a surplus before interest
payments of 3 percent.  Unallocated Funds  The bill “reserved” 5.6 billion reais with no specific
allocation, Machado said.  “We are making things easier for President Dilma next
year,” Machado told reporters in Brasilia yesterday. “She will
decide what to do with that amount.”  While congress approved the minimum wage increase to
540 reais, it will not be implemented until the president sends
a separate initiative to congress next year. The wage proposed
by the president is not necessarily the same approved by
congress.  Unions will try to have the unallocated funds earmarked to
finance an increase in the minimum wage to 580 reais, union
leader and lower house member  Paulo Pereira da Silva  said.
Brazil’s current minimum wage is 510 reais.  “Although we are approving a 540-reais wage now, it will
be up to the president next year to implement the wage increase
with a presidential decree,” Pereira da Silva told reporters in
Brasilia. “Leaving the funding unallocated makes it easier to
negotiate with the government when the time comes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  