-- Rovi to Buy Sonic Solutions for $775 Million to Add Streaming to Listings
-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2010-12-23T21:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/rovi-to-buy-sonic-solutions-to-expand-in-digital-entertainment-business.html
  Rovi Corp ., the provider of
interactive TV guides for cable and satellite services, agreed
to buy  Sonic Solutions Inc . for about $775 million to expand in
digital entertainment services.  Sonic investors may sell their shares to Rovi for $14 each
or receive 0.2489 Rovi share for each of Sonic that they hold,
according to a statement on Rovi’s website yesterday. Sonic
directors and senior management owning about 11.2 percent of the
company’s equity have accepted the offer.  The combined company will be in a better position to help
customers such as Best Buy Co. or Blockbuster Inc. sell movies
and TV shows online and compete with Netflix Inc. and Amazon.com
Inc., Sonic Chief Executive Officer David Habiger said. Rovi
licenses its TV guides to partners including pay-TV services,
while Sonic has deals with Hollywood studies and provides
streaming services so people can get movies and shows on demand.  “You’ve got a dramatic shift going on in the way people
access content,” Habiger said in an interview. “They are
moving from physical discs to streamed digital content.”  The offer of $14 a share is 25 percent more than Sonic’s
closing price in Nasdaq Stock Market trading yesterday. The
combined company will seek to target higher-value subscribers of
digital entertainment content, Rovi said.  Rovi plans to use technology available to its TotalGuide
customers to power Sonic’s RoxioNow services, a move that will
“result in accelerated uptake of premium content,” according
to the statement.  Sonic Rises  The proposed acquisition of Sonic, based in Novato,  California , has an enterprise value of about $720 million, the
statement said. Sonic had 48.8 million shares outstanding as of
Nov. 8, excluding options, according to a regulatory filing.
Rovi plans to pay cash for 55 percent of Sonic and stock for the
rest. Sonic had about $55 million in cash as of Sept. 30.  Sonic jumped $3.22, or 29 percent, to $14.42 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has gained
22 percent this year. Rovi, based in  Santa Clara , California,
fell $1.10, or 1.9 percent, to $57.26. The stock has risen
80 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is the financial adviser to Rovi in
the proposed transaction, while Sonic was advised by William
Blair & Co. and Morrison & Foerster LLP.  The transaction values Sonic at about 40 times the company’s
estimated earnings for the next full fiscal year of 35 cents a
share, according to the average estimate of six analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. That compares with the 36 times next
year’s estimated earnings that Sonic paid for San Diego-based
DivX Inc. in October.  Jefferies Group Inc., which advised Sonic on the DivX
transaction, said in July that the median company in the
multimedia and embedded software industry trades at about 19
times next year’s estimated earnings.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Golum at   rgolum@bloomberg.net  