-- Rusal Value May Jump 50% If Norilsk Stake Sold to Cut Debt, Prokhorov Says
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-12-23T09:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/rusal-value-may-jump-50-if-norilsk-stake-sold-to-cut-debt-prokhorov-says.html
United Co. Rusal , the world’s
largest aluminum maker, should sell its 25 percent stake in  OAO
GMK Norilsk Nickel  to offload debt and unlock value, said
billionaire shareholder  Mikhail Prokhorov .  “As soon as Rusal sells the stake in Norilsk, you’ll have
a minimum 50 percent rise” in the market value of the aluminum
company, said Prokhorov in an interview on Bloomberg Television
today. Rusal, valued at about  HK$180 billion  ($23 billion) based
on prices in Hong Kong today, could rise to as much as $35
billion, according to Prokhorov, who owns a 17 percent stake.  Rusal bought a quarter of Norilsk, the largest nickel and
palladium miner, from Prokhorov in 2008 for shares and at least
$4.5 billion in cash. The deal sparked a feud over management of
Norilsk between Rusal Chief Executive Officer  Oleg Deripaska  and
billionaire  Vladimir Potanin , who is the largest shareholder
with almost 30 percent stake.  Norilsk on Dec. 16 offered to buy Rusal’s stake in the
company for at least $12 billion, a proposal which was discussed
by Rusal’s board yesterday. If the aluminum company agrees to
its offer, Norilsk could close the deal within three to four
months, Potanin’s Interros Holding Co. said in an e-mailed
statement today, citing the Russian billionaire.  Norilsk agreed on Dec. 8 to sell its controlling stake in
U.S. palladium maker  Stillwater Mining Co.  for $971 million, and
on Dec. 16 its board discussed the sale of its OGK-3 utility for
$2 billion. Norilsk also said on Dec. 20 that it agreed to sell
8 percent of its treasury shares to commodities trader  Trafigura
Beheer BV , which on that day were valued at $3.5 billion.  ‘Accumulating Money’  “These deals may signal Norilsk is accumulating money to
buy out Rusal’s stake and will have at least $6.5 billion of
available funds to do it, before borrowings,”  Olga Okuneva , an
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said by phone today. A deal could
be reached at between $12 billion and $15 billion, Vedomosti
reported on Dec. 20, citing Rusal investor  Mikhail Prokhorov .  Rusal’s market value is depressed by debt it built up
through the purchase of its Norilsk stake, said Prokhorov, who
was Potanin’s business partner for 16 years. Rusal had almost
$12 billion of debt as of Sept. 30, a regulatory filing shows.  “For the next three to four years there are no dividends
for shareholders because Rusal has to repay debt,” Prokhorov
said. In the longer-term, Rusal has the potential to triple its
value because of the low cost of planned smelters in Siberia and
expected rises in aluminum prices, he said.  Rusal gained 0.7 percent to 22.80 euros at 10:21 a.m. in
Paris, while Norilsk was 0.1 percent higher at 6,779.90 rubles
in Moscow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  