-- S.C. Johnson Is Confident Sara Lee Bug-Killer Deal Will Get EU Approval
-- B y   P e t e r   C h a p m a n
-- 2010-12-23T10:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/s-c-johnson-is-confident-sara-lee-bug-killer-deal-will-get-eu-approval.html
S.C. Johnson & Son Inc., maker of
Raid bug-killer products, is “confident” it will allay
European Union concerns over its plan to buy  Sara Lee Corp. ’s
insecticide business for 153.5 million euros ($201 million).  The European Commission is taking a closer look at S.C.
Johnson’s attempt to add Sara Lee brands including Vapona and
Pyrel after concluding the proposed deal may lead to higher
prices and less choice in five nations. The regulator extended
the deadline for its antitrust review until May 12.  “We remain confident that the transaction will be
completed, albeit on a delayed basis,” S.C. Johnson, based on
Racine, Wisconsin, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
Adding the Sara Lee insecticide brands “would benefit families
around the globe for whom pest control products provide
invaluable health protection.”  It’s the second time this year the EU has stalled Sara
Lee’s plans to offload units unrelated to its food and beverage
business.  Unilever  had to agree to dispose of Sara Lee’s Sanex
deodorant and body-wash brand in the region in exchange for
approval to buy its shower-gel and European detergents business.
That ruling led to a cut in the purchase price.  The S.C. Johnson transaction may lead to “substantial
overlapping activities” in Spain, France, Belgium, Greece and
the Czech Republic, the Brussels-based commission said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  “The removal of an important competitor may lead to
increased prices and less choice,” the commission said, adding
that an offer of antitrust remedies by closely held S.C. Johnson
“did not remove” competition concerns.  Mike Cummins , a spokesman for Downers Grove, Illinois-based
Sara Lee, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Chapman  at 
 pchapman10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 