-- SEC Auditor Probe Signals `Buyer Beware' for China, ISIG's Straszheim Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-23T08:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/sec-auditor-probe-signals-buyer-beware-for-china-isig-s-straszheim-says.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission’s probe into auditors of China-based companies listed
on U.S. share exchanges is a signal for investors to approach
these stocks with caution, said International Strategy &
Investment Group.  The SEC on Dec. 21 sanctioned a California audit firm for
signing off on fraudulent financial statements made by a Chinese
energy company. Auditors have come under scrutiny for signing
the financial statements of China-based firms accessing U.S.
markets through reverse mergers, in which a closely held company
acquires a publicly traded company and can then sell shares
without an initial public offering.  “This is the ultimate ‘buyer beware’ sector of
investing,” said  Donald Straszheim , director of China research
at ISI, who was ranked first in the Macro and Economics
categories in Institutional Investor magazine’s 2009 survey.
Individual investors “would perhaps be well served to just stay
away. Even the most sophisticated institutional investors in the
world often avoid the opacity and risks,” he said.  Straszheim, who is based in Los Angeles, estimates there
are “hundreds of tiny companies in China” that have sold
shares in the U.S. through reverse mergers, aiming to tap into
booming demand from U.S. investors who want access to the
Chinese economy.  Xia Lihua, a spokeswoman at the China Securities Regulatory
Commission, declined to comment on the SEC probe.  SEC Claims  Moore Stephens Wurth Frazer & Torbet LLP of Orange County,
one of several firms that have fallen under the SEC’s scrutiny,
“did not exercise professional skepticism and due professional
care” in audits of  China Energy Savings Technology Inc. , which
was ordered to pay about $35 million in March 2009 for
overstating revenue, the SEC said in a  statement  on Dec. 21.  China Energy Savings has been delisted. Calls to the
company’s Hong Kong office weren’t answered.  Dean Yamagata, the partner in charge of the audit, was
barred from practicing as an accountant for at least two years.
Frazer and Yamagata didn’t admit or deny the allegations. To
settle the SEC’s claims, Frazer and Yamagata agreed to pay
$129,500 and retain an independent consultant for training in
fraud detection, auditor independence and other duties related
to auditing functions.  The SEC has identified “hundreds” of such small companies
“where about 100 percent, not 95 percent, 100 percent of the
operations are in the People’s Republic of China” and the
financial statements are signed by a small U.S. auditor,  Wayne Carnall , chief accountant of the SEC’s division of corporation
finance, said at a Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
meeting in April.  Legal Requirements  “It’s more of those accounting firms’ own issues and
problems,” said  Hubert Tse , a partner at law firm Boss & Young
in Shanghai. “It’s their job and responsibility to work that
out and to make sure the IPO applicants comply with all relevant
U.S. legal and listing requirements.”  The PCAOB, which was created by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in
2002 to oversee auditors of public companies, is looking for
ways to hold U.S. auditors accountable for work they outsource
to China-based audit firms.  “The news about SEC investigations is not surprising,”
said  Michael Yoshikami , who oversees about $1 billion at Walnut
Creek, California-based YCMNet Advisors. “Standards for
transparency have a way to go to reach a level where one can
expect accuracy. Still, this does not change our view that
Chinese companies will account for a growing percentage of
IPOs.”  ‘Frothy Levels’  At a time when China’s government is trying to keep the
economy from overheating, a record number of its companies are
selling stock in the U.S. Forty-one Chinese companies have sold
shares through initial offerings in the U.S. this year, capping
a record year that exceeded the 37 transactions in 2007, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investor demand for emerging-market shares, including those
from China, will remain in “frothy levels,” said Yoshikami,
who was named by Barron’s as one of the Top 100 Independent
Financial Advisors for 2009. “The business opportunity is
simply too great to ignore.”  China’s gross domestic product will by expand by 9.2
percent this year, according to the median estimate of 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, poised to overtake Japan
as the world’s second-largest economy. The People’s Bank of
China has raised the amount of reserves banks should set aside,
including ordering an increase on Dec. 10, the third time in
five weeks, to rein in inflation and avert asset bubbles.  ‘Hurt Sentiment’  While the SEC probe “may hurt sentiment in the short term
for U.S.-listed Chinese companies, demand for these small
growing companies continues to be strong,” said  Jeff Papp , a
senior analyst at Oberweis Asset Management. These smaller
Chinese companies are attractive if governance improves and
valuations remain “cheap,” he said. They trade at an average
of below 10 times reported earnings, compared with more than 50
for larger stocks such as Baidu Inc., Papp said.  The  Bank of New York Mellon China ADR Index , which
comprises American depositary receipts of Chinese and Hong Kong
companies, gained 0.4 percent yesterday, taking its climb this
year to more than 12 percent. China’s Shanghai Composite Index
fell 0.8 percent to 2,855.22 as of the 3 p.m. close today. The
gauge has slumped 13 percent in 2010.  “Investigations like this inevitably cast a shadow that is
broader and wider than the particulars of the case itself,”
Straszheim said. “I doubt that it will cause any lasting damage
to the broad investor interest in China’s overall economy.”  -- Allen Wan ,  Joshua Gallu . With assistance from  Eva Woo  in
Beijing and  Irene Shen  in Shanghai. Editors:  Darren Boey ,
 Richard Frost .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  