-- Senate's Durbin Plans to Seek Limits on `Abusive' Prepaid Debit-Card Fees
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2010-12-23T22:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/senate-s-durbin-plans-to-seek-limits-on-abusive-prepaid-debit-card-fees.html
U.S. Senator  Richard Durbin , the
Illinois Democrat who led the fight to regulate debit-card
“swipe” fees, said he will seek similar rules to restrict what
he called “abusive fees” associated with prepaid cards.  In a letter to  Elizabeth Warren , the Obama administration
adviser setting up the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection,
Durbin promised “further legislative steps” to cut fees tied
to prepaid debit cards, according to a copy released today.  Durbin said he would work with Senator  Robert Menendez , a
New Jersey Democrat, who introduced legislation on Dec. 17 that
would place disclosure requirements and fee limits on the cards.  “In the meantime, I urge the Bureau to closely monitor the
market, fees and terms of these products, and to alert
businesses and consumers about deceptive and abusive products,”
Durbin wrote in the letter dated yesterday. Peter Jackson, a
spokesman for Warren, declined to comment on the letter.  Durbin successfully pushed for an amendment to the Dodd-
Frank Act that requires regulators to ensure debit-card swipe
fees paid by retailers to card issuers are “reasonable and
proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer.” The senator’s
new effort aims to address the law’s exemption for most prepaid
debit cards.  Trish Wexler , a spokeswoman for the Electronic Payments
Coalition, said fees for the prepaid cards are important to
making the products commercially viable.  “You can’t expect to force a business to offer a product
at a loss, period,” Wexler wrote in an e-mail on behalf of the
coalition, which represents card issuers including  Bank of
America Corp.  and JP Morgan Chase & Co, as well as payment-
network operators such as Visa Inc. and MasterCard Inc.  Warren, an assistant to President  Barack Obama  and special
adviser to Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , is charged
with setting up the new bureau, which was created by the Dodd-
Frank Act. The bureau will have no formal authority until July
21, the date set by Geithner under the financial-regulation law.  Prepaid debit cards, which are designed to function like
checking accounts, have been faulted for charging consumers with
fees for activation, checking balances and other functions.  Hip-hop impresario  Russell Simmons , who markets a prepaid
debt card called the RushCard, successfully lobbied Congress to
exempt the cards from the swipe-fee regulation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carter Dougherty  in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 