-- Shooting Gold Diggers at African Mine Seen Amid Record Prices
-- B y   C a m   S i m p s o n
-- 2010-12-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/shooting-gold-diggers-at-african-mine-seen-amid-record-prices.html
  Barrick Gold Corp .’s North Mara mine
near the Tanzanian border with Kenya disgorges millions of
pounds of waste rock each week, piled high around communities
where almost half the people live on less than 33 cents a day.  Children in school uniforms scurry across the rubble to
reach their classes. Women with water pails atop their heads
skirt past the heaps. The piles grow as the longest  bull market 
for gold in at least 90 years pushes Barrick, the world’s
largest miner of the precious metal, to increase production.  Villagers, too, are hunting the ore on the North Mara land
that their ancestors worked for decades, sometimes paying with
their lives.  Security guards and federal police allegedly have shot and
killed people scavenging the gold-laced rocks to sell for small
amounts of cash, according to interviews with 28 people,
including victims’ relatives, witnesses, local officials and
human-rights workers.  “They are not arresting them or taking them to court,”
said Machage Bartholomew Machage, a member of the Tarime
District Council, the highest local government body. “They are
just shooting them.”  At least seven people have been killed in clashes with
security forces at the mine in the past two years, according to
the 28 people interviewed. In at least four cases, police
acknowledged the shootings in contemporaneous press accounts.  Killed and Wounded  The dead include Mwita Werema, a father of four who was
killed one day after gold set another record price in October
2009; Chacha Nyamakono, who was one year from becoming the first
in his family to complete a basic education; and Daudi
Nyagabure, shot in February, who was eager to build a future for
his pregnant wife.  Fifteen people were seriously wounded in the same period,
according to the  Legal and Human Rights Center,  a human-rights
group in the Tanzanian city of  Dar es Salaam , and Machage, who
was the district council vice chairman until August.  Toronto-based Barrick and African Barrick Gold Plc, which
is 74 percent-owned by the Canadian miner, pay the Tanzanian
government for federal police protection at the mine and employ
private armed guards, according to company documents.  The violence at North Mara is a brutal dividend of gold
prices that have risen almost threefold in the past five years
to a record $1,431.25 on Dec. 7.  In written responses to questions about the situation,
African Barrick said it frequently faces groups of intruders,
often armed, who illegally enter the North Mara mine with the
intent of stealing valuable ore.  Mine Trespassers  It also said some thefts, vandalism and other incidents are
the result of organized crime, in part stoked by transients in
the border region with  Kenya .  People killed or injured after crossing into the mine area
shouldn’t be considered small-scale miners because they were all
trespassing and therefore acting illegally, said Andrew Wray,
head of investor relations for African Barrick, in a Dec. 21
written response to questions.  “ABG categorically refutes any claim that any persons
injured or killed were artisanal or small scale miners,” he
wrote.  He declined to comment on specific cases, citing active or
potential police investigations, except for one. He said
allegations that mine security inflicted lethal injuries in that
instance are “fundamentally untrue.” They were the result of a
fight between intruders over stolen ore, he wrote.  Security Improves  Security incidents at the mine have “significantly
declined” during the past two years despite record gold prices,
Wray said. The company declined to comment on the number of
people killed or injured by security forces in the past two
years.  Barrick didn’t respond to written questions about North
Mara, instead directing them to African Barrick. The Canadian
company raised 581 million pounds, the equivalent of $872
million at the time, from the March 19 initial public offering
in London of African Barrick.  Aloyce Tesha, a spokesman for  Tanzania ’s Ministry of Energy
and Minerals, which oversees mining, declined to comment when
presented with a list of the alleged killings at the mine. In an
e-mail, he said the issues involved criminal investigations and
referred questions to the police. Calls to the Inspector General
of Police and the office of Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete
were not returned.  Tensions Erupt  “The villagers are human beings and so they would like to
get the minerals, and the policemen do not want them to get to
the minerals,” Constantine Massawe, the commander of federal
police forces at the mine and throughout the region, said in
Swahili in a Nov. 11 telephone interview. “It’s not easy. If
you tell them to leave, it’s not easy to get them to leave.” He
declined to comment further.  During the reporting for this story, Tanzanian police
arrested a photographer working for Bloomberg News on suspicion
of trespassing at the mine site. He was jailed for a night and
had his passport held for six days before he was freed without
charges.  Security at the mine, where there are four open pit
deposits, escalated after a riot in December 2008, African
Barrick has said. A group of people invaded one pit after it had
been blasted for ore. They burned $7 million of equipment and
cost the mine several days of production. Police shot and killed
one trespasser, Wray said.  Much about the killings since then is unknown, including
their precise locations. In some areas popular with scavengers,
few fences or signs mark where mine property ends and village
life begins.  Firing Into Crowds  In several incidents, witnesses and contemporaneous press
accounts quoting police indicated that officers fired into or
over large crowds. In one killing, police told the government
newspaper that shots were fired into the air after some miners
tried to disarm officers.  According to Barrick, in some instances deaths and injuries
were inflicted by other trespassers, not by the police or
security. Barrick said some incursions go deep into its mining
areas.  John McKay, a Canadian member of Parliament who sponsored
legislation this year that sought to sanction mining companies
for human-rights abuses abroad, said he wasn’t familiar with the
North Mara mine and he declined to single out specific
operators. Still, he said the profits delivered by gold’s high
prices are causing a “moral blindness” at some companies.  Knocking Heads  “It seems like the attitude is, ‘If we have to knock a few
heads along the way, so be it,’ because there is so much money
to be made,” he said. His proposal was defeated in  Parliament 
on Oct. 27.  The government of  Guatemala  is considering a suspension of
operations of Vancouver-based Goldcorp Inc.’s Marlin mine after
the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights alleged that the
facility was contaminating water supplies. Jeff Wilhoit,
Goldcorp’s vice president of  investor relations , said the
complaints underlying the ICHR’s petition, including alleged
human-rights violations, were without merit.  He also said the company was implementing recommendations
from an independent human-rights assessment completed in June.  The World Gold Council, the London-based mining trade
group, helped boost the surge in investor demand now bringing
record results to Barrick and other members. It started SPDR
Gold Trust, the first exchange-traded product backed by bullion
approved in the U.S. The 10 largest such funds held more than
2,113 metric tons of gold valued at about $94.2 billion as of
Dec. 21, according to Bloomberg data. They allow investors from
retirees to hedge funds to invest in gold.  Land Once Theirs  Mining firms are spending some of the money they’re earning
from record gold prices to boost production, exploration and
development at North Mara and in other corners of the developing
world. Those living near veins of gold are in turn trying to
profit from ore in their communities.  “There is awareness amongst communities about the fact that
the gold price is so high, but that very little of the benefit
from that seems to be coming back to them,” said Keith Slack,
the Washington-based head of Oxfam America’s extractive
industries program, which works on security and human-rights
issues globally.  There are growing fears that the collision of these forces
could yield a new wave of turmoil for years, Slack said.  Barefoot Geologists  At North Mara, local “barefoot geologists” were the first
to mine this rock, working by hand decades ago on their
ancestral lands. An estimated 40,000 people in the area depended
on small-scale mining for their livelihoods, according to a
history compiled by the mine’s first developer, Afrika Mashariki
Gold Mines Ltd.  The mine’s development and growth displaced an estimated
10,000 households, including many who didn’t receive
compensation under previous owners, according to the African
Barrick prospectus.  Vancouver-based  Placer Dome Inc.  bought the mine in 2003.
Barrick acquired Placer Dome in 2006 for $10.4 billion, making
the company, founded by Canadian billionaire Peter Munk, the
world’s largest gold producer.  Total payments to the local community are unclear. African
Barrick said in its written response that it supported thousands
of school scholarships. It didn’t say how much it had spent on
those efforts.  Security Incidents  Barrick acknowledged deaths at the  North Mara  mine in two
sentences in its 486-page IPO prospectus, dated March 19. “In
some cases, those involved in security incidents have been
injured, sometimes fatally,” one of the passages read.  Two months after the December 2008 unrest, Barrick Chief
Operating Officer Peter Kinver credited “a great deal of
support” from the Tanzanian government for helping with what he
called “sporadic incursions of people coming onto the mine.”
That support helped the company meet its production goals at
North Mara in January 2009, he said on a call with analysts on
Feb. 20, 2009.  The company has reported no other major disruptions to
production since.  Mwita Werema knew the risks of scavenging waste rock for
gold, said his widow, Eunice Mwita. Her 35-year-old husband was
a lifelong small-scale miner who lost his land to the mine in
2002, she said.  The Two-Six  “He used to tell me, ‘If they catch me one day, I’m sure
they will kill me,’” she said, speaking in a whisper barely
loud enough to be heard above the clucking of a single chicken
just beyond her open doorway. Her four children played outside
on a low, sallow mound of earth, their father’s grave. As she
spoke in July, she was expecting a fifth child any day.  Werema was shot on Oct. 15, 2009. That morning he and his
mining partner, Nchia Mwita, had worked their way deep into a
vast area of waste rock that locals call the “Two-Six,” which
abuts one of the pits. They carried water bottles, hammers and
their rucksacks, his friend recalled.  People each day flood the Two-Six, named long ago when the
mine designated it as rock pile No. 26, according to villagers.
The daily activity supports a single-stool barber shop,
operating from a shack erected on the stones. A handwritten sign
identifies it as the Two-Six Hair Salon.  Nchia Mwita’s and Werema’s story mirrors the daily cat-and-
mouse routine described by other miners. Typically they may get
30 minutes to sift stones before security guards appear and
force them to flee, they said. They’ll lie low for 10 or 15
minutes, then return.  Bribes for Access  Sometimes they can buy time by paying small bribes, which
some police and security officers routinely demand, said miners
and local officials. Mwita said those who are paid can easily
betray villagers, turning on them if fellow officers arrive.  The day Werema was killed, he and his friend weren’t
prospecting long when two large crowds of scavengers began
moving in behind them, working their way up the rock piles as
well, Mwita recalled. About eight armed security men appeared on
higher ground roughly 500 feet away, Mwita said. One guard began
firing randomly at the crowd, he alleged.  Suddenly, “I saw him go down,” Mwita said of his friend
Werema. Blood spilled onto the stones. He was shot once in the
back and died, Mwita said.  Police took responsibility for the shooting in statements
to local newspapers, though they said Werema was shot in the
left leg. Mwita said he saw a private Barrick guard pull the
trigger.  North Mara’s Allure  There’s no mystery to North Mara’s allure for locals. While
company data show that the rocks African Barrick processes there
yield an average of about 3 grams of gold per metric ton, a
bagful of the best waste rocks can be sold for the equivalent of
a few dollars to buyers operating from the trunks of cars parked
right on the rock fields.  The mine, sitting east of  Lake Victoria , had 2.9 million
ounces of proven and probable reserves at the start of 2010.  As much as 40 percent of the population in the surrounding
Tarime district survives on less than 33 cents a day, the
government estimated in 2005. Many live mostly off what they can
grow.  Record gold prices have drawn more people to scavenge for
gold-laced ore during the past two years, said Nyagabure Chacha,
who lives in a hut that is an easy walk from the rock piles.  Miners track the price of gold using the internet
connections on mobile phones they must take to a communal solar-
powered charging shack because most have no electricity.  ‘People Have Nothing’  “These people have nothing,” Chacha said. “They have no
resources to survive.”  On Feb. 2, Chacha’s son, Daudi Nyagabure, allegedly was
among the victims. Around 1 p.m. that day, security forces shot
and killed the 21-year-old, his father said, based on accounts
from others at the scene.  The son was starting his own family. He and his 19-year-old
wife had one child, and she delivered another four months after
becoming a widow.  Like several relatives of miners killed here, the old man
expressed resignation, not bitterness. He quoted a popular
 Swahili  proverb about the impossible task of gathering spilled
water back into a cup.  Those who own the mine and the people who live around it
“are moving in opposite directions,” he said. The company is
rising, he said, as the people fall.  Human-Rights Standards  On Nov. 19, Barrick announced it had joined an
international group of extractive companies, governments and
non-profits that promotes voluntary standards to foster human
rights in security operations.  The non-binding guidelines, called the  Voluntary Principles
on Security and Human Rights , include one saying that companies
should report credible allegations of human-rights abuses by
public security forces to the appropriate authorities.  Wray, of African Barrick, said the company “will make a
formal request” to the regional police commissioner’s office
for an investigation if it’s made aware of allegations of abuse.  The company mentioned no violence at the mine in  reports 
describing its social-responsibility record on community
relations, health and safety for 2009 and 2010. Last year’s
report stated: “At Barrick, we are committed to making a
positive difference in the communities in which we work.”  Wray wrote in a Dec. 15 statement that the company is
installing additional perimeter fencing, walls and security
cameras “in certain sensitive areas” and is trying to educate
local residents about the dangers of illegal mining.  Gold’s Payoff  Rising gold prices pushed Barrick to record net income in
the third quarter of $837 million, or 84 cents a share. As of
Dec. 22, its stock had gained 30 percent this year, matching the
gain of the 16-company Philadelphia Stock Exchange Gold and
Silver Index. Barrick produced 7.42 million ounces of gold in
2009, compared with 5.3 million for its nearest competitor,  Greenwood Village , Colorado-based Newmont Mining Corp.  “We are a company that has been a major beneficiary of
raising the gold price,” Regent, Barrick’s CEO, said Nov. 11 at
a  London  gold conference sponsored by  RBC Capital Markets .  In the first nine months of this year, Barrick’s cash
margins increased 52 percent to $783 an ounce, compared with
$515 an ounce a year earlier, according to a financial statement
released by the company Oct. 28.  African Barrick has been a laggard. On Oct. 14, its share
price dropped 9.5 percent in London after the company cut full-
year output estimates at its new Buzwagi gold mine, which is
about 300 miles south of North Mara. It said workers had stolen  diesel fuel  from the mine, causing production delays.  ‘Appalling Start’  “They’re off to an appallingly bad start,” said  Peter Rose , an analyst at  Fox-Davies Capital Ltd. , in London, who
recommends buying ABG stock and has a one-year price target of
674 pence. The March IPO wouldn’t have been possible without
high gold prices, he said.  African Barrick’s share price began recovering after it
announced positive exploration results at two separate sites
Nov. 29 and Dec. 2, including North Mara. It closed at 591 pence
yesterday.  Production stoppages are down at North Mara, Wray said,
adding that the company budgeted a total of $20.4 million for
security at all four Tanzanian mines this year. The biggest
share of those costs goes to North Mara, a 16-square-mile (42-
square-kilometer) property just west of  Tanzania’s Serengeti
National Park , one of the world’s most renowned game preserves.  Of the 15 people listed as injured at the North Mara mine
by the Legal and Human Rights Center of Dar es Salaam, Bloomberg
News interviewed two. It also found a woman, Mwora Marwa, who
was listed as dead by the human-rights group, after she was shot
and hospitalized for almost a year. All three provided medical
or other records documenting their injuries from gunfire.  Ruptured Eye  They included a 12-year-old boy whose right eyeball was
ruptured by a bullet and a 28-year-old man, Joseph Ikaya Mgaya,
who said police approached him and fired a single shot into his
right leg without warning or provocation.  Mgaya carries two letters in his pocket. One is from the
general secretary of his village. It says he was “shot by the
patrolling police near the mining area” and asks police
officers to stop harassing him. The second, stamped by police,
obliges the request. “Please don’t disturb him, he is sick and
I have checked his documents and they are legal,” it says.  Of the seven killed whose families were interviewed by
Bloomberg News, at least five of the incidents were reported in
Tanzanian newspapers. Police were quoted taking responsibility
for four.  One report stated that on July 8, 2009, police confronted
hundreds of villagers at the mine. Massawe, the police
commander, was quoted saying villagers threw stones.  Rushing for Bullets  “Police fired so much tear gas and so many gunshots to
prevent the villagers from invading the mine (they) ran out of
ammunition stock and had to rush for more bullets,” Massawe was
quoted saying in the state-owned  Daily News .  Two people were killed by the gunfire. One was Chacha
Nyamakono, 17, who lived with his extended family in huts made
of mud, stone and handmade bricks about a two-hour walk from
North Mara.  He was the first in the family to attempt an education,
loved science and always had his nose in his books, said his
sister-in-law, Paulina Chacha, 36. The family burned his high
school papers and notebooks after his death because they were
too painful a reminder, she said.  “He said, ‘When I’m done with school, I’ll provide a
better life for you,’” recalled his 73-year-old grandmother,
Marita Nyamakono, perched on a stool next to a scrawny, sleeping
dog.  ‘Hard to Survive’  “It’s very hard to survive here,” she said. “We don’t
have sugar. We don’t have medical care -- nothing.” The other
miner killed that day was Mwita Machapele, 37, a father of three
sons. He was shot in the back, according to both his wife and
Massawe’s comments in the government newspaper.  His widow, Mama Godfrey, said she collected her husband’s
bloodied corpse from police on a road next to the mine, where
about 500 people had gathered.  “I didn’t bother asking the police what happened,” she
said, “because it was the police who killed him. There was no
point of asking. Even if I asked, what could I do?”  Bloomberg News did not include some cases tallied by local
officials or human-rights investigators in its count, often
where there wasn’t a witness or a contemporaneous press account.
One of those cases involved Christopher Jakuo, 42, who was shot
and killed at the mine on June 3, 2009, according to his widow
and Machage.  Earning Extras  What her husband earned scavenging ore paid for extras,
like meat and milk, said Mama Christopher, who lives in a mud
and thatch hut in a hamlet called Chuchuri. Since his death, the
family survives on what it can grow: sweet potatoes, corn,
cassava and millet.  “You can see the children are losing weight,” she said.
She dreams of her dead husband. “We speak together and I tell
him about my problems raising the children. I can’t do this
alone.”  One incident brought the community close to rioting,
according to several accounts -- the death of Muhere Biraro, a
popular local leader.  Biraro, 40, lived with his wife and seven children in three
stone and mud huts in a hamlet called Sekube.  Starting in late 2008, Biraro worked for Barrick in one of
the mine’s pits, according to his wife, Rhoda. It was the first
full-time employment in Biraro’s life, bringing steady income
and even  health services , including medicine, from the mine
dispensary.  Hardhat Memorial  The family began building a brick home so they could
finally move from the huts, she said, sitting on a plastic chair
just a few feet from where her husband’s hardhat hangs. It’s on
a nail pounded into the mud wall above the bed they shared.  Their new life ended when Biraro was fired in early 2009 as
part of 200 dismissals that a company press release called a
cost-saving move.  Desperate, Biraro began small-scale mining in the Lake
Victoria region, hours from the family’s home, his wife said.
This year he focused on the Barrick rock piles instead, because
they were close, according to a friend he worked with at the
mine.  On March 20, one day after Barrick completed the IPO of its
African Barrick unit, Biraro went hunting for stones. The next
morning, his wife learned her husband was at a small health
clinic near the mine.  Drenched in Blood  A friend of her husband’s, Charles Mbusiro, 39, arrived
first at the hospital and recalled seeing Biraro drenched in
blood. “He had lots of injuries, in the head, in his back, all
over,” Mbusiro said.  Biraro was weak, his friend said. He described being
confronted at the mine by Barrick’s private security officers.  “They surrounded me and they attacked me and beat me and
they stabbed me and took me and dumped me by the roadside. The
police picked me up from there,” Mbusiro said Biraro told him
before he died.  With villagers on the verge of rioting over the death,
Tanzania Omtima, the village chairman, and Isaac Zablo, a local
Christian minister, said they met with senior mine managers and
demanded answers. Mine security officials said they had found
Biraro disoriented, then handed him over to police, both men
said in separate interviews.  Omtima and Zablo insisted on being taken to the scene to
question security guards and others, and to examine the
surroundings. After gaining permission, both said they were
stopped en route by mine security guards, who refused to let
them pass. The family and Omtima said no one was arrested.  Killers Unclear  In a statement to the government newspaper that was
published on its website that same day, Massawe, the police
commander, alleged that Biraro had been killed by other small-
scale miners after retrieving ore.  “He was an intruder and it seems he has been killed by
colleagues,” Massawe was quoted saying.  In his statement, Wray said the allegations that mine
security killed Biraro “are fundamentally untrue” and that
“evidence instead strongly suggests that his injuries were the
result of a conflict with other intruders over gold-bearing
material stolen from the mine.”  He also said that while the two community leaders, Omtima
and Zablo, initially were granted access to the site of the
killing, it was under the control of police and “this area was
a crime scene.”  Biraro’s widow now spends her days walking from home to home
with her children in tow, offering to do odd jobs so they can
live off more than the crops they grow.  Her oldest boy is often absent. He feels responsible now for
the family, she said, so he scrounges rocks at the same mine
where his father was killed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cam Simpson in London at 
 csimpson13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  