-- Singapore Stock-Rigging Ruling Could Curtail Market Activity, Pheim Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-12-23T02:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/singapore-stock-rigging-ruling-could-curtail-market-activity-pheim-says.html
Pheim Asset Management Sdn. and its
Chief Executive Officer  Tan Chong Koay , appealed a Singapore
High Court ruling that they’d manipulated the shares of a listed
company in the country’s first civil stock-rigging lawsuit.  “If left to stand, the decision would either serve to
curtail genuine market activity by the timorous or to set a
penal trap for the unwary,” they said in their appeal filed
Dec. 21 at the Singapore High Court.  Tan and Pheim bought almost 90 percent of the traded shares
of United Envirotech Ltd. from Dec. 29 to Dec. 31, 2004. The
shares rose 17 percent over the three trading days and helped
raise the net asset value of the fund management firm’s
accounts, triggering bonuses of S$50,790 ($38,866) and a
management fee of S$115. Justice  Lai Siu Chiu  said the gain
sought by Pheim and Tan wasn’t monetary, in ruling they
manipulated the stock.  Tan and his Malaysian fund management company were fined
S$250,000 each. The  Monetary Authority of Singapore  sought a
fine of S$1 million for each.  Pheim “is a value investor,” the company and Tan said in
their appeal. “Pheim is also a contrarian investor -- buying
when others are selling and selling when others are buying.”  The Monetary Authority has no evidence to prove Pheim and
Tan had any other intention but to buy undervalued shares, they
said in the 212 pages of court documents filed to back the
appeal.  “There was in fact no other intention,” they said.  ‘Good Investment’  Pheim expected shares of companies in the water treatment
sector to rise since 2001, according to the filing. United
Envirotech shares were overlooked and deemed to be a good
investment, Pheim said in its appeal.  Singapore, which expanded its fund management industry to a
record  S$1.2 trillion  at the end of 2009, has vowed to clamp
down on market abuse. The central bank, which won the city’s
first civil lawsuits for stock rigging and insider trading this
year  tightened the rules  for financial institutions in reporting
employee misconduct.  “Such offenses undermine the effectiveness and efficiency
of the securities market and are often insidious and difficult
to detect,” Lai said.  Tan, who founded Pheim Group, was in 2002 named one of five
 successful  Singapore-based boutique fund managers by the
Government of Singapore Investment Corp..  Tan has offices in Singapore and Malaysia. He had said,
jokingly, in August 2006 that Pheim, which manages about $1
billion, was a made-up word which means Please Help Everyone
Invest Money.  Tan and Pheim “would not have risked their livelihood and
business by seeking to manipulate” the stock knowing that any
unusual trading activities would be tracked by the financial
regulator, according to their appeal.  The case is Pheim Asset Management Sdn Bhd. v Monetary
Authority of Singapore, CA186/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  -- Editors:  Joe Schneider ,  Douglas Wong   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  