-- Singapore Inflation Quickens to 22-Month High, Putting Pressure on Policy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-12-23T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/singapore-inflation-quickens-to-22-month-high-putting-pressure-on-policy.html
Singapore’s  inflation  rate rose to
the highest level since January 2009, an acceleration that may
put pressure on the central bank to allow further currency
appreciation to curb price increases.  The consumer price index climbed 3.8 percent in November
from a year earlier, after gaining 3.5 percent in October,
Singapore’s Department of Statistics said in a statement today.
That matched the median estimate of 14 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News. Prices rose 0.3 percent from October, without
adjusting for seasonal factors.  Singapore’s economic expansion this year has fueled prices,
prompting the central bank to allow faster currency gains and
leading the government to implement measures to cool the
property market. The Monetary Authority of Singapore uses the
exchange rate instead of interest rates to manage inflation,
which it forecasts may quicken to about 4 percent by the end of
2010 and “stay high” in the first half of 2011.  “Rising food, transport and housing costs, compounded by
escalating wage pressures, will likely keep inflation above 4
percent in early 2011,”  Chua Hak Bin , a Singapore-based
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said before the
report. “MAS will have to stay tight, in our view, with the
risk for further tightening in April next year.”  The central bank said in October it will steepen and widen
the currency’s trading band while continuing to seek a “modest
and gradual appreciation,” after undertaking a one-time
revaluation in April this year. The Singapore dollar has gained
more than 7 percent against the U.S. currency this year.  Consumer prices will probably rise 2.8 percent this year,
and 2.9 percent in 2011, according to the median estimate in a
survey of 22 economists by the central bank released this month.
Inflation will average between 2 percent and 3 percent next year,
the central bank predicts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  