-- Skype Says It Will Refund Paying Customers After 30-Hour Service Outage
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-12-24T00:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/skype-to-give-refunds-to-paying-customers-after-service-outage.html
Skype Technologies SA, the largest
provider of international calls, will offer refunds to paying
customers who haven’t been able to use its service because of an
outage that lasted more than 30 hours.  About 20 million users, representing 90 percent of the
traffic the company would normally expect, are now able to make
calls, Chief Executive Officer  Tony Bates  said today in a  blog
posting , after an outage yesterday rendered the service
unavailable to almost all global users.  Year-end holidays are Skype’s heaviest traffic period,
Bates said in an interview this week. The disruption adds to
challenges facing Skype as it tries to persuade companies to pay
for calling and establish premium services, such as group video
conversations, in the run-up to an initial public offering.  “We now know what caused a number of clients to actually
crash,” Bates said in a video on the company’s blog. “We’ve
been able to mitigate that crash risk and isolate that.”  He didn’t say what caused the crash and said the company
had ruled out a malicious attack.  Skype will give pre-pay and pay-as-you-go users 30 minutes
of free calling, and active subscribers will get a week’s extra
subscription, the company said.  Skype has more than 560 million users. Of those, only 1.4
percent pay for the service, according to a regulatory  filing .
The Luxembourg-based company started as a way for consumers to
chat for free.  What’s Working  Audio and video calls as well as instant-messaging
capabilities are now working, the company said. Some features,
such as group video calling, are still unavailable.  Rival service OoVoo LLC said it received 100,000 new
registrations yesterday, double its previous record for peak
usage. The New York-based company attributed the peak to
defecting Skype users, Matt Houser, a spokesman for the company,
said in an e-mail.  Skype said it will do a full post-mortem of the cause of
the outage. It is using servers that normally support offline
instant messaging and multiparty video calls to get its main
products online, Bates said.  The company accounts for about 12 percent of international
calling, according to the Washington-based research firm
Telegeography.  EBay  Inc., which bought Skype in 2005, sold most of its
stake last year for about $2 billion to a group led by Menlo
Park, California-based private-equity firm Silver Lake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  