-- Skype May Take Several Hours to Restore Service Fully
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-12-23T13:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/skype-says-it-may-be-several-hours-before-service-connectivity-restored.html
Skype Technologies SA, the world’s
largest carrier of international phone calls, may take several
hours to restore its services fully after the company reported
yesterday that some users had access problems.  “It may be several hours before connectivity is restored
and the full set of Skype features is functional,” Eunice Lim,
a Singapore-based spokeswoman at Skype, said in an e-mail before
8 a.m. London time today. Services have been restored for some
users, she said without elaborating.  Skype, whose 560 million users make phone calls through the
Internet, said yesterday some subscribers had difficulties
logging on to its service after some of the company’s computers
malfunctioned. The Luxembourg-based company said today in a
blog  posting  that about 5 million people were using the service,
about 30 percent of average users for that time of day.  Many computers that form part of the company’s network were
taken offline by an unspecified problem, Skype said on its
 website  yesterday. Services aimed at corporate users such as
Skype Connect and Skype Manager were working normally, it said.  Chief Executive Officer  Tony Bates  this week said Skype
plans to add corporate partnerships and hire engineers to build
new products to boost growth. Only 1.4 percent of Skype users
pay for the service, the company said in August.  Skype is developing premium services such as group video
calling, pursuing corporate accounts and plans to raise $100
million in an initial public offering, according to an Aug. 9
filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The company accounts for about 12 percent of international
calling, according to the Washington-based research firm
Telegeography.  EBay Inc., which bought Skype in 2005, sold most of its
stake last year for about $2 billion to a group led by Menlo
Park, California-based private-equity firm Silver Lake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  