-- Snow Brings Chill to U.K. Stores as Holiday Spending Sputters
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-12-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/snow-brings-chill-to-u-k-stores-as-holiday-spending-sputters.html
Andrea Hamilton plans to spend about
half her usual 150 pounds ($231) on Christmas gifts this year.
It’s not job prospects,  interest rates  or the possibility of
increased taxation that’s holding her back. It’s the snow.  “I haven’t been out shopping nearly as much,” Hamilton,
25, said yesterday in the HMV store on London’s Oxford Street.
“I’m buying a lot more presents at the last minute,” she said,
clutching a Take That CD and a DVD of “The Inbetweeners.”  Britain’s worst early snowfall in 17 years has left many
shoppers marooned at home at a time when some store operators
make about half their annual sales. Growth in Internet ordering
has benefited online retailers, although deliveries of gifts
have also been affected by the weather. On average, the snow has
pushed retail sales down as much as 15 percent a week, according
to  Andrew Wade , an analyst at Numis Securities in London.  “At a time when retailers were looking to play catch-up
after the snowfall at the start of the month, the latest turn in
the weather has dealt another cruel blow,” said  Tim Denison ,
director of Synovate Retail Performance.  The number of shoppers visiting stores in U.K. fell 8.8
percent in the week ended Dec. 18, according to Synovate. On
Dec. 19, the last Saturday before Christmas, traffic was down
24.3 percent, the market research company said.  Home Retail Group Plc , owner of Homebase home-improvement
stores and the Argos chain;  HMV Group Plc , a music and DVD
retailer; and Dixons Group Plc electronics outlets are “most
vulnerable” to the snowy conditions, according to Numis’s Wade.  “Christmas-focused, low-margin retailers are most
vulnerable,” he said. “Food and online will show resilience.”  Estimates Cut  Liberum Capital analyst  Simon Irwin  cut his estimates of
annual sales for U.K. electronics retailers by 5 percent
yesterday. Clothing retailers such as  Next Plc  and Marks &
Spencer Group Plc will be more resilient as shoppers buy coats
and sweaters to combat the freezing temperatures, Irwin said.  Alexon Plc , the U.K. owner of the Ann Harvey clothing
brand, said this week that the snow will reduce earnings by as
much as 1.5 million pounds as its older customer base struggle
to reach stores to buy its larger-size clothing. Sales at stores
open at least a year fell 19.9 percent in the last three weeks.  Glenn Dodson, 44, said that while he’s finished his holiday
shopping, most of his family haven’t. “My son’s still trying to
fly home and my wife has done most of hers online, but nothing
much has arrived,” Dodson said outside the House of Fraser
department-store on Oxford Street.  Early Discounts  It’s not just the U.K. that’s being affected as arctic
temperatures sweep across much of Europe.  “The weather is definitely having an impact,” said Dino
Lemma, manager of the  Geox SpA  store on Milan’s Vittorio
Emmanuele shopping street. “Shoppers that would have travelled
in to the city will have been put off by the freezing weather.
While in other months we were beating our budget, we’ve been
just about meeting it since the really cold weather started.”  Many retailers have started offering discounts to stoke
demand.  Tesco Plc , the U.K.’s largest supermarket company,
started its Boxing Day sale online yesterday with discounts of
as much as 50 percent on products such as 22-pound duvets, 10-
pound cooking woks and 39-pound five-piece pan sets.  Kingfisher
Plc’s  B&Q chain has also began its sale early, with promotions
of as much as 75 percent online and in stores from Dec. 17.  To be sure, weak holiday sales may turn into a post-
Christmas “bonanza” as shoppers seek bargains after the
holiday, said  Nick Bubb , an analyst at Arden Partners in London.  Online Sales  “The shift of spending may have slightly adverse gross
margin implications, but on the whole we don’t think too much
damage will turn out to have been done to forecasts,” he said.  Retailers such as HMV which depend on Christmas sales may
be an exception as shoppers turn to supermarkets for DVDs and
books during the snowy weather, Bubb said. The analyst cut his
price estimate on HMV to 33 pence from 40 pence yesterday,
though retains an “add” recommendation on the stock.  Shares of HMV, which owns Waterstone’s bookstores, have
dropped 40 percent this month and closed at 27.75 pence
yesterday. The company said Dec. 9 that it was cutting its
dividend by 50 percent after the first-half loss widened.  Online sales in the U.K. will probably increase 15 percent
this Christmas, compared with growth of about 1 percent in total
retail spending, according to estimates by Deloitte LLP.  While the bad weather is disrupting delivery of online
orders, December will still be the biggest online shopping month
ever, with forecast spending of 6.4 billion pounds, according to
the Interactive Media in Retail Group trade organization.  Back on Oxford Street, Hamilton said she was surprised not
to see more shoppers flocking for last-minute gifts.  “I’d expected it to be more crazy,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 