-- South Korea Conducts Fresh Military Exercises Close to Border With North
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2010-12-23T11:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/south-korea-conducts-fresh-military-exercises-close-to-border-with-north.html
South Korea held a one-day military
exercise involving jet fighters and mobile artillery in an area
between Seoul and the Demilitarized Zone that separates the
nation from its communist neighbor to the north.  About 800 troops joined the 42-minute drill in Pocheon,
about 30 kilometers (19 miles) from the border with North Korea,
according to a pool report provided to journalists.  North Korea accused South Korea of pushing the Korean
peninsula to the brink of war with “grave military
provocation,” North Korea’s official Korean Central News Agency
reported, quoting Kim Yong Chun, the minister of its People’s
Armed Forces.  North Korea is “fully prepared to launch a sacred war of
justice of Korean style based on the nuclear deterrent at
anytime necessary to cope with enemies’ actions,” the KCNA
said, quoting Kim.  The exercise followed maneuvers involving South Korean
marines that started yesterday in waters near the eastern sea
border. Defense Minister  Kim Kwan Jin  said on Dec. 21 that the
military will remain on alert even after an artillery drill on
Yeonpyeong Island along the disputed western maritime border
ended on Dec. 20 without retaliation from North Korea.  The equipment involved in the exercises in Pocheon, north
of Seoul, included 30 K-1 tanks, 11 K-200 armored personnel
carriers, two F-15K jets, 36 K-9 artillery pieces, three
multiple long-range rockets, three AH-1S cobra helicopters and
other equipment, the pool report said.  The military is considering lowering alert levels in some
border areas, said an official at the Joint Chiefs of Staff who
declined to be named because of military policy. He declined to
provide details including the names of regions and whether the
military noticed any easing of tension with North Korea.  South Korea kept the alert level at the highest stage of
“Jindo Dog 1” since Nov. 23 when North Korea shelled
Yeonpyeong, killing two marines and two civilians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at   scha2@bloomberg.net 
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  