-- Sukuk Beats Emerging-Market Debt for 2nd Month: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 2010-12-24T08:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/sukuk-beats-emerging-market-debt-for-2nd-month-islamic-finance.html
Islamic bonds are outperforming
emerging-market debt for a second month as new note sales
rebound, Malaysia boosts spending on roads and power plants and
confidence returns to the Persian Gulf.  Global Shariah-compliant notes returned 1.2 percent in
December, the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index  shows,
while bonds in developing regions fell 0.7 percent, according to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index . Emerging-
market returns have dropped as rising yields on U.S. Treasuries
gave dollar-based investors less incentive to buy riskier fixed-
income assets.  Islamic debt sales increased 34 percent in the second half
compared with the first six months as investor confidence was
boosted by Dubai World’s September agreement with most of its
creditors to restructure $24.9 billion of debt. Developing
nation bond funds suffered net outflows for three consecutive
weeks until Dec. 8, the longest stretch since the first quarter
of 2009, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research
firm EPFR Global.  “Demand for sukuk is outstripping supply,” Mohd Noor Hj A
Rahman, the head of the Islamic fund management unit at Kuala
Lumpur-based OSK-UOB Unit Trust Management Bhd. that manages
about 250 million ringgit ($81 million) of assets, said in an
interview yesterday. “The better outlook and the debt
restructuring in the Gulf has given comfort to investors.”  ‘Scrambling’ For Sukuk  Global sales of sukuk, which pay returns based on asset
flows to comply with Islam’s ban on receiving and paying
interest, fell 24 percent this year to $15.3 billion. There were
$6.52 billion of offerings in the first half and $8.75 billion
in the second. Issuance reached a record $31 billion in 2007.  “Everyone is scrambling to buy sukuk and the supply is
limited,” Noripah Kamso, chief executive officer at CIMB-
Principal Islamic Asset Management Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur, said in
a telephone interview yesterday. “Pension houses are coming to
us and saying I want this money to be invested in sukuk. For the
first quarter, we still expect very good pricing for sukuk.”  A Malaysian government 10-year private-led project
initiative, including a nuclear power plant and an underground
rail network, will spur sales of Shariah-compliant debt next
year, Prime Minister  Najib Razak  said in an Oct. 25 speech in
Kuala Lumpur.  Saudi Stimulus  Saudi Arabia’s 1.44 trillion-riyal ($384 billion) stimulus
plan may see the kingdom’s borrowers overtake Malaysia as the
largest issuer of Islamic debt next year,  Tariq Al-Rifai ,
director of Islamic Market Indexes in Dubai for Dow Jones
Indexes, said Dec. 17. The world’s largest oil exporter
announced in August a five-year development plan to spur growth,
create jobs and diversify its economy away from hydrocarbons.  Malaysian and Persian Gulf infrastructure spending will
boost sukuk issuance in 2011, said  Badlisyah Abdul Ghani , Kuala
Lumpur-based chief executive officer at CIMB Islamic Bank Bhd.,
a unit of  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd ., this year’s top sukuk
arranger. Islamic bond sales may match 2007 levels next year, he
said in an interview on Dec. 22.  Average yields on Shariah-compliant bonds from the Gulf
Cooperation Council countries fell for a third consecutive week,
down 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, this week to 5.5
percent yesterday, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC Dollar
Sukuk Index .  Spread Narrows  The yield on Dubai Department of Finance’s 6.396 percent
sukuk due November 2014 fell 33 basis points this month to 6.48
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The extra
yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s government sukuk rather
than Malaysia’s narrowed 62 basis points to 336, Bloomberg data
show.  The  difference  between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed 172
basis points this year to 297 yesterday, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . In the GCC, the gap
shrank 185 basis points to 359.  “We see that the sukuk spread over Libor has narrowed,
reflecting that demand for sukuk is stronger,” Zamri Shariff,
head of asset management at Asian Finance Bank Bhd., the Kuala
Lumpur-based unit of  Qatar Islamic Bank SAQ , said in an
interview yesterday. “We should start seeing other issuers
coming into the fray, the non-traditional sukuk issuing
countries like Thailand, Korea and the Philippines.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Suryani Omar in Singapore at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 