-- Sunoco Dumps Refineries to Chase Pipeline Profits
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2010-12-23T21:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/sunoco-chief-elsenhans-earns-best-refining-returns-from-dumping-refineries.html
  Sunoco Inc . Chief Executive Officer
Lynn Elsenhans has figured out the best strategy for stanching
losses from the refining business: get rid of refineries.  Elsenhans, 54, boosted Sunoco to the top of the list of
major U.S. oil and gas companies in returns this year as the
stock gained 53 percent. She took charge of the second-largest
U.S. independent refiner in 2008, just as fuel demand slumped
the most in 27 years, and immediately started trimming costs.  Sunoco, like almost all other U.S. independent refiners,
lost money in 2009. Elsenhans reacted faster to the downturn
than her rivals, shifting the company’s focus from the less-
profitable refineries to more stable sources of revenue, such as
pipelines and storage terminals. Other peers, including  Valero
Energy Corp ., have followed in shutting down or selling plants.  Now analysts say she may have gone too far, after agreeing
to sell or close three of the company’s five refineries. With
the economy beginning to recover, Elsenhans, the only female CEO
of a Fortune 500 energy company, faces the challenge of
expanding profit at a business she has spent the last two years
shrinking.  “When I look at the remaining business, there’s not much
left,” said  Philip Weiss , an analyst at Argus Research in New
York who has a “sell” on the shares and owns none.  A 28-year veteran of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Elsenhans froze
pension benefits, fired employees and got rid of a corporate
jet. She cut operating costs by 37 percent. After planned sales,
Sunoco will have about half the 910,000 barrels a day of
refining capacity it did in 2007, when the unit generated 82
percent of net income, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Long-Term Risks  The company’s rising stock is a short-term benefit of a
business strategy that carries long-term risks, said Weiss.
Sunoco’s climb is better than rival refiners Valero and  Tesoro
Corp . It’s the top gainer this year among U.S. oil and gas
companies in the  NYSE Arca Oil  Index.  The stripped-down company may not generate enough cash to
meet future environmental regulations or cover damages if there
were an accident at one of its refineries, he said.  Finding new sources of profit may be more difficult after
Elsenhans completes all her planned asset sales, said Chi Chow,
an analyst at Macquarie Capital USA Inc. in Denver, who has an
“outperform” on the stock and owns none.  “This is a refining company that may not even own
refineries at the end of the day,” Chow said.  Fading Business  The moves have heightened uncertainty about what Sunoco’s
ultimate capital structure and asset profile will be, Mark Sadeghian, a Chicago-based analyst for  Fitch Ratings , wrote in a
Dec. 3 note.  Elsenhans declined to be interviewed for this story.
Sunoco, based in Philadelphia, fell 15 cents to $39.86 at 4 p.m.
in composite trading on the  New York  Stock Exchange. It has
three buy recommendations, nine holds and four sells from
analysts.  U.S. oil demand is in long-term decline, and less petroleum
is needed to make gasoline as the federal government mandates
greater use of ethanol and other biofuels, Elsenhans said at a
Nov. 18 conference in Houston.  “In the last 20 years, there have only been five in which
the refining industry in the United States has made a return
that would warrant reinvesting,” she said.  Pipeline Focus  A “smaller, more nimble” Sunoco will rely more on its gas
stations, pipelines and terminals to make money, said Stephen Lehner, a managing director at Mount Kellett Capital Management
LP, which owned 1.5 percent of Sunoco’s stock as of Sept. 30.
Refineries may still be a key part of Sunoco, “but not
necessarily the place where she can create the most value.”  Sunoco said yesterday it would buy 25 gas stations in New
York State for an undisclosed amount, adding to its more than
4,800 retail locations.  The company put its pipeline and storage assets into a
master-limited partnership, called Sunoco Logistics Partners,
and first sold units in the business in 2002. It owns a 31
percent stake in Sunoco Logistics, according to regulatory
filings.  Sunoco’s “focal points” will be its pipelines and
terminals, Elsenhans said in a Sept. 15 presentation to
investors in New York.  By investing in pipelines and terminals, the company is
betting that the variety of fuels will grow with new government
mandates, spurring demand for the infrastructure to store and
transport them, said Macquarie’s Chow.  Adding Butane, Ethane  The Sunoco partnership acquired a butane-blending business
in July and petroleum products terminals in November. It also
agreed in June on a project to bring liquid ethane from western  Pennsylvania  to Philadelphia, where it can be shipped to other
markets, Elsenhans said in the Sept. 15 presentation.  Elsenhans, the daughter of an  Exxon Mobil Corp . employee,
has a long view on the industry’s past and its challenges.  In 1980 she joined Shell, where in the 1990s she ran one of
its largest refineries in Deer Park,  Texas . She “had to command
the respect of people who thought they’d never be working for a
woman,” said Jim Crownover, a former director at McKinsey & Co.
who served with Elsenhans on the board of  Rice University  in
Houston, where both received undergraduate degrees.  Elsenhans rose to executive vice president in charge of
refining and chemicals worldwide for The Hague-based Shell,  Europe ’s largest oil company by market value. Her experience
made her a strong candidate for the top position at Sunoco,
where her focus from the start was on cutting costs, said Robert Darnall, who served on Sunoco’s board from 2000 until May 2010.  Leading the Way  Between 2007 and 2009, U.S. demand for petroleum products
declined by 1.91 million barrels a day, the most since the two-
year period ending 1981, according to Energy Department data. In
late 2008, gasoline cost less on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  than oil, a signal that refiners’ margins for the fuel
were negative.  To end losses, Sunoco was the first to say it would shut a
U.S. refinery. A month later, Valero, the largest U.S.
independent refiner, and Western Refining Inc. said they would
do the same.  “She kind of got ahead of the curve of actions that
competitors have taken ever since,” Darnall said.  The sales and cuts, which included eliminating about 750
jobs and getting rid of one of three corporate jets, have helped
to more than triple Sunoco’s cash pile to $1.13 billion as of
Sept. 30, from $327 million in 2008.  Elsenhans also has sold part of Sunoco’s chemicals unit,
cut the company’s dividend and is seeking to spin off the most
profitable remaining unit, SunCoke, which makes fuel for
steelmakers.  Sunoco may reap as much as $2.6 billion from a spinoff,
according to Macquarie’s Chow. Alternatively, Elsenhans may opt
to distribute SunCoke shares among existing Sunoco stockholders,
Weiss, the Argus analyst, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net  