-- Bombs Explode at Swiss, Chilean Embassies in Rome, Injuring at Least Two
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2010-12-23T17:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/swiss-embassy-in-rome-hit-by-package-bomb-seriously-injuring-one-person.html
Package bombs exploded at the Swiss
and Chilean embassies in Rome, injuring two employees, according
to police and government officials.  The first bomb, hidden in a postal package, exploded about
noon at the Swiss embassy, according to a statement from the
mission. The victim suffered hand injuries and was taken to a
Rome hospital. An explosion also occurred at the Chilean
embassy, injuring an employee. The bombs were concealed in
yellow packages, the size of video cassettes, broadcaster SkyTG
24 said.  “This is a deplorable act of violence that deserves our
complete condemnation,” Italian Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  said in an e-mailed statement.  No one claimed responsibility for the attacks, which
Italy’s interior minister  Roberto Maroni  said may be linked to
anarchist groups, Ansa reported him as saying. Checks were made
at all embassies and diplomatic offices in Rome, a spokesman for
Rome’s police headquarters said.  Hellenic Police’s Athanasios Kokkalakis said there is no
evidence linking the letter bombs in Rome today with Greece. In
a separate phone interview, Takis Papapetropoulos, Athens police
directorate spokesman, said reports of Greek authorities working
with the Italian authorities “aren’t valid.”  Villa Borghese  A spate of parcel bombs in November prompted a 48-hour
suspension of international mail deliveries in Greece. Devices
exploded at the Swiss and Russian embassies in Athens.  The Rome embassies are near the Villa Borghese gardens and
museums, the site of Rome’s second-largest park.  Rome and other Italian cities have been the scene of
violent student protests against Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s legislation that will overhaul the country’s
university system. The Italian parliament passed the bill today.  Rome Mayor  Gianni Alemanno , speaking to reporters, said the
incidents weren’t related to recent violence in Rome and the
police are pursuing international leads, according to remarks
broadcast on SkyTG 24.  The Chilean embassy employee suffered light injuries,
Chile’s Foreign Affairs Minister  Alfredo Moreno  told reporters
in Santiago, state television network TVN said. The Chilean
government is unaware of who was responsible for the attacks or
any connection between the countries that might explain a
motivation, Moreno said.  A suspicious package found at the Ukrainian embassy wasn’t
a bomb, police said. A parcel with no return address sent to the
European Union’s embassy in the Swiss capital of Bern that
forced evacuation of part of the building near federal offices
turned out to be harmless, a police officer was cited as saying
in the online edition of the  NZZ newspaper  in Zurich.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jerrold Colten  in Milan at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Liefgreen at 
 dliefgreen@bloomberg.net  