-- Swiss Stocks Increase: Syngenta Shares Advance as Logitech Falls on Dec 23
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2010-12-23T17:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/swiss-stocks-rise-syngenta-shares-advance-as-logitech-declines-in-zurich.html
Swiss stocks advanced as reports on
jobless claims, consumer confidence and capital spending in the
U.S. suggested that the world’s largest economy was recovering.  Syngenta AG , the world’s largest supplier of agricultural
chemicals, increased 1.8 percent. Swiss drug company  Actelion
Ltd.  advanced 1.9 percent.  Logitech International SA , the maker
of computer mice and keyboards, sank 1.8 percent after Exane BNP
Paribas downgraded the company.  The  Swiss Market Index  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies rose 0.7 percent to 6,599.43 in Zurich for a
weekly gain of 1.2 percent. The gauge has risen 0.8 percent this
year, trailing the 11 percent increase in the benchmark Stoxx
Europe 600 Index. The broader  Swiss Performance Index  gained 0.6
percent to 5,920.38.  “Statistically speaking in the last few days of December
the market seems to do well and this year a lot of people are
shifting from government bonds to equities,” said  Alexandre Stucki , lead portfolio manager at AS Investment Management in
Geneva, which has 250 million francs in assets under management.
“A lot of people are talking about dividend yields.”  Fewer Americans filed applications for jobless claims last
week and the number of people on benefit rolls dropped to a two-
year low, reinforcing evidence the labor market is improving.  Initial filings for unemployment insurance declined by
3,000 to 420,000 in the week ended Dec. 18, matching the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington.  U.S. Consumers  Spending by U.S. consumers increased in November for a
fifth month, showing the biggest part of the economy is
strengthening heading into 2011.  Household purchases rose 0.4 percent after a 0.7 percent
increase in October that was almost twice as large as previously
estimated, figures from the Commerce Department showed today in
Washington. Incomes climbed 0.3 percent and the Federal
Reserve’s preferred measure of inflation held at a record low.  Orders for U.S. capital equipment rebounded in November,
signaling a slowdown in business investment may be less
pronounced than some economists projected.  Syngenta climbed to 279.1 Swiss francs, the most since Nov.
25. Allschwil, Switzerland-based Actelion increased 1.9 percent
to 51.90 francs. The stock has risen 32 percent since Sept. 30
amid speculation of a takeover by Amgen Inc.  Forbo Holding AG  increased 2.2 percent to 595 francs after
UBS AG raised its price estimate for the stock to 750 francs
from 590 francs, forecasting higher profit margins. “We foresee
further considerable margin upside and expect Forbo to be able
to post double-digit EBIT margins in the near future,”  Torsten Wyss , an analyst at UBS, said today in a note to clients.  Logitech dropped 1.8 percent to 18.44 francs after Exane
downgraded the Romanel-sur-Morges, Switzerland-based company to
“neutral” from “outperform” and reduced its price estimate
for the stock to 18.50 francs from 24 francs. The new rating
follows “the lukewarm reception of the Revue Box (Google TV)
and further softness in the PC market,” wrote  Alexander Peterc ,
analyst at Exane, in a note to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Giles Broom  in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 