-- Syniverse Debt Leads New Issues Higher as 2010 Leveraged-Loan Returns Peak
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2010-12-23T12:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/syniverse-loan-leads-new-issues-higher-as-returns-for-2010-peak.html
Syniverse Holdings Inc. , the mobile-
phone messaging company that Carlyle Group is buying, leads at
least seven companies whose leveraged loans rallied after they
started trading this week as returns for the debt in the U.S.
peaked for 2010.  The issuers, including MDA Lending Solutions, bought by TPG
Capital, and IHealth Technologies Inc., seeking cash to pay a
dividend to private-equity owners, completed raising about $4
billion in loans, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  S&P/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index  gained 9.2 percent
this year as of yesterday, extending record returns of 52.2
percent in 2009, as a leading economic index showed that the
Federal Reserve’s efforts will help sustain the economic
recovery and former Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said U.S. gross
domestic product may grow by as much as 3.5 percent next year.
Investor demand for loans doubled this year as borrowers agreed
to pay more interest than existing debt to refinance and market
liquidity rose as issuers repaid bank debt with bonds.  “Investors are long cash, the secondary market is
relatively tight and new deals are certainly structured in a
manner that’s more attractive than existing loans,” said  John Fenn , a credit market analyst at Citigroup Inc. in New York.
“They come with Libor floors and relatively attractive coupons,
they have better covenant protections. The demand for such
product is self evident, and it’s highlighted more by the fact
that investors have money to put to work.”  Banks arranged $360.1 billion of loans for junk-rated
companies this year, up from $169.3 billion in 2009 and 25
percent more than the previous year, Bloomberg data show.  Junk-Bond Sales  Issuers sold a record $289.5 billion of high-yield, high-
risk bonds this year, up from a previous high of $163 billion in
2009, according to Bloomberg data. About $65 billion of the
borrowings in 2010 were to refinance loans, up from $44 billion
last year, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by  Peter Acciavatti 
said in a Dec. 10 report.  Junk bonds and leveraged loans are rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  The Conference Board, a New York-based research group, said
Dec. 17 that 9 out of 10 components in its leading economic
indicators index improved in November, the broadest advance in
seven years. The measure is designed to gauge the outlook for
growth for the next three to six months.  Greenspan said in a Dec. 16 interview with Bloomberg News
that the U.S. economy “unquestionably has some momentum.” He
said Pacific Investment Management Co.’s 3 percent to 3.5
percent expansion forecast for the last quarter of next year is
“reasonable.”  Raising Forecasts  Mohamed El-Erian , chief executive officer of Pimco, the
world’s largest bond fund, joined other economists and investors
Dec. 9 in raising forecasts for U.S. growth, following President
 Barack Obama ’s agreement with Republican lawmakers to prolong
income-tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003 by the  George W. Bush 
administration and the central bank’s second round of monetary
easing, a plan to buy as much as $600 billion of Treasuries that
started last month.  The Fed cut the federal funds rate for overnight loans
among banks to a  record low  range of zero to 0.25 percent in
December 2008 and kept it there to help stimulate lending.  “For 2011, prospects for leveraged loans look bright, with
a better GDP outlook (in light of the recent tax compromise),
low defaults, strong balance sheets, and an upward bias to
interest rates supporting demand for loans,” Acciavatti-led
JPMorgan analysts said in a Dec. 17 report.  ‘Attractive’ Spreads  Pricing for loans rated B+ or B is 6.52 percentage points
as of today, compared with a low of 2.14 percentage points in
February 2007, according to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged
Commentary and Data. Six out of 10 lowest spreads on record were
in 2007, S&P LCD said, when banks competed to finance the
biggest takeovers.  The average all-in spreads assume three-year maturity on
loans and include upfront fees, original-issue discounts and
floors on the London interbank offered rate, a lending benchmark
also known as Libor.  “Spreads are still attractive, it’s an overall market
question: if we continue to believe that the economy and credit
are improving, that’s an environment where spreads are supposed
to get tighter,” Citigroup’s Fenn said yesterday in an
interview. “The market can stay disciplined, but at some point
you draw the conclusion you don’t need to be as compensated for
the risk you’re taking.”  Syniverse issued its $1.025 billion LBO loan due in seven
years at 99 cents on the dollar. It started trading at 100.75
cents and then rose to 101.25 cents, according to information
provider Markit Group Ltd.  MDA, IHealth  The Tampa, Florida-based company pays an interest rate 3.75
percentage points more than Libor, with a 1.5 percent floor on
the lending benchmark. Carlyle agreed to take Syniverse private
in a $2.6 billion transaction.  TPG, the Fort Worth, Texas-based private-equity firm,
financed its $850 million acquisition of MDA Lending, previously
a  MacDonald, Dettwiler & Associates Ltd.  unit providing
information- and settlement-services to real estate lenders,
with a $350 million term loan.  MDA issued the debt at 98.5 cents on the dollar and it rose
to 99 cents, Markit said. The company has a spread of 5.5
percentage points over Libor, with a 1.5 percent floor on the
lending benchmark.  IHealth’s $175 million term loan funding a payout to for GS
Capital Partners, a unit of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and Oak
Investment Partners has a margin of 6 percentage points more
than Libor, with a 1.75 percent floor on the lending benchmark.
The debt was bid up 1 cent at 99 cents on the dollar from its
issue price after it was allowed to trade, according to Markit.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 