-- Pound Strengthens Against Dollar, Euro on Report of Greek Debt Restructure
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2010-12-23T17:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/u-k-pound-near-three-month-low-versus-dollar-on-boe-fisher-s-gdp-comments.html
The pound strengthened against the
euro and rose from near a three-month low versus the dollar, as
the newspaper Ta Nea reported Greek officials and bankers have
decided on a debt-restructuring plan to begin after 2013.  The pound appreciated after the Athens-based daily said
Greece will ask for an extension on all outstanding debt and a
cut in interest paid. Fitch Ratings said it downgraded
Portugal’s long-term foreign and local currency issuer default
ratings to A+ from AA-. Bank of England Markets Director  Paul Fisher  said in a newspaper interview that U.K. interest rates
may rise to “a normalized position” of about 5 percent.  Interest-rate expectations “have moved back in favor of
sterling so that should encourage euro-sterling lower as well as
obviously being hit by the broader concerns about the euro-zone
periphery and Greece,” said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director
of foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce in London.  The British currency appreciated 0.2 percent to 84.98 pence
per euro at 4:50 p.m. in London, from 85.14 pence yesterday.
Sterling gained 0.3 percent to $1.5414, from $1.5386 yesterday,
when it reached $1.5356, its weakest level since Sept. 14. It
rose after some analysts said Fisher’s comments may mean the
central bank will lift the U.K.’s 0.5 percent benchmark interest
rate.  “I don’t think a change of 25 or even 50 basis points is
going to trigger a recession,” Fisher told the Daily Telegraph
newspaper. “But what we need to do is to trigger the mindset in
people that that’s where rates will eventually go back to.”  Contraction Possible  The central-bank official also said it’s “not impossible”
the economy may contract for one quarter. Reports show retail
sales are down in December as Britain experiences the worst
early snowfall in 150 years. Third-quarter economic growth
expanded 0.7 percent, the Office for National Statistics said
yesterday, less than initially estimated.  “Paul Fisher is saying the data could be pretty volatile
and therefore we can’t rule out a negative quarter for 2011,”
said  Steve Barrow , head of Group-of-10 currency strategy at
Standard Bank Plc in London. “Perhaps he’s also keeping an eye
on the weather. That comes after the disappointing GDP figures
yesterday.”  The U.K.’s output growth “tends not to be that volatile
quarter-to-quarter, but in this sort of situation when you are
recovering from a deep recession it is not impossible” to see
contraction over one quarter, Fisher said, according to the
Telegraph story.  Home Loans Fall  A British Bankers Association report today showed U.K.
banks granted 29,991 home loans in November, compared with
30,689 a month earlier. That was the fewest mortgage approvals
since March 2009, when the economy was in the depths of the
recession, the data showed.  “The overall picture of mortgage approvals is running at a
super-low level, and whether it goes up or down on the month
really is fairly immaterial given the absolute level of
approvals that we have,” said  Charles Diebel , head of market
strategy at Lloyds TSB Corporate Bank in London.  The number of shoppers visiting stores in the U.K. fell 8.8
percent in the week ended Dec. 18, according to Synovate. On
Dec. 19, the last Saturday before Christmas, traffic was down
24.3 percent, the market research company said. On average, the
snow has pushed retail sales down as much as 15 percent a week,
according to  Andrew Wade , an analyst at Numis Securities in
London.  ‘Poor Retail Performance’  “What is worrying is the poor retail performance in the
run-up to Christmas; certainly the bad weather hasn’t helped,
and we’ve actually downgraded our forecasts for the fourth
quarter on the impact,” said  Hetal Mehta , an economist at Daiwa
Capital Markets Europe in London. “We don’t see sterling losing
much ground to the euro, but against the dollar, clearly U.S.
growth is going to be fairly healthy next year because of the
measures they’ve taken.”  The 10-year gilt yield fell less than one basis point to
3.49 percent. The 4.75 percent security due March 2020 rose
0.06, or 60 pence per 1,000-pound face amount, to 109.82. The
two-year note yielded 1.21 percent.  Short sterling futures contracts declined. The contract
expiring in December 2011 fell 0.02 to 98.61, pushing the
implied yield higher by two basis points to 1.39 percent.  Gilts have returned 6.6 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Treasuries gained 5.6 percent
and German debt, the euro-area’s benchmark securities, returned
6.2 percent, the EFFAS indexes show.  Slowing Economy  The U.K. economy slowed more than initially estimated in
the third quarter and more than economists had expected, Office
for National Statistics data showed yesterday. The 0.7 percent
rise in GDP from the previous three months compared with an
initial estimate of 0.8 percent, which was also the median
forecast of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Second-
quarter growth was 1.1 percent.  The U.K. economy will expand at a rate of 1.9 percent next
year and 2.2 percent in 2012, according to analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The U.S. economy is set to grow 2.6 percent in 2011
and 3.2 percent the next year, a Bloomberg survey showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Emma Charlton  in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  