-- U.S. Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index Rose to 74.5
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-12-23T15:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/u-s-consumer-sentiment-climbs-as-michigan-index-reaches-74-5-in-december.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
climbed to a six-month high in December, coinciding with a
pickup in holiday sales and fewer job cuts.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
 consumer sentiment  for the month rose to 74.5, matching the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey, from 71.6 in
November. The preliminary December reading was 74.2.  Americans have been willing to snap up holiday gifts from
retailers like  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  and  Saks Inc.  that have
limited discounts. An improving job market, rising stock prices
and the extension of Bush-era tax cuts may keep propelling
consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the
economy.  “We are going to see slow but likely steady improvements
in consumer sentiment,” said  David Semmens , a U.S. economist at
Standard Chartered Bank in New York. “The extension of
unemployment benefits and tax cuts mean that 2011 will be a
better year for the U.S. consumer.”  Estimates  for the confidence measure ranged from 71 to
76.7, according to the Bloomberg survey of 59 economists. The
index averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the recession
that began December 2007.  Separate data from the Commerce Department showed spending
by consumers increased in November for a fifth month. Household
purchases rose 0.4 percent after a 0.7 percent increase in
October that was almost twice as large as previously estimated.
 Incomes   climbed 0.3 percent.  Business Equipment  Orders for U.S. capital equipment rebounded in November,
signaling a slowdown in business investment may be less
pronounced than some economists projected, another report
showed.  Bookings for goods like computers and communications gear
climbed 2.6 percent after a 3.6 percent decline in October that
was smaller than previously estimated, the Commerce Department
said. Total orders dropped 1.3 percent, depressed by volatile
demand for aircraft, and bookings excluding transportation
equipment rose more than forecast.  The Labor Department today reported a 3,000 decrease in
initial  jobless claims  to 420,000 last week.  Builders sold fewer new homes than forecast in November,
signaling the housing market is floundering. Purchases rose 5.5
percent to a 290,000 annual rate, the Commerce Department said
today.  Stocks were little changed after the reports. The  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.1 to 1,258.07 at 10:08 a.m. in New
York. Treasury securities fell, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note up to 3.39 percent from 3.35 percent late
yesterday.  Current Conditions  The confidence survey’s gauge of  current conditions , which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether it is a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars,
rose to 85.3 from 82.1 the prior month.  The index of consumer  expectations  for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of consumer spending,
increased to a six-month high of 67.5 from 64.8.  Consumers in the survey said they expect an inflation rate
of 3 percent over the next 12 months, the same as in the
November report.  Over the next five years, the figures tracked by Fed policy
makers, Americans expected a 2.8 percent rate of inflation,
matching the previous two months.  Retailer Promotions  Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest retailer, has raised prices
on hundreds of toys this holiday season, and Saks has cut back
the duration of some promotions and applied them to fewer brands
than in 2009.  Rising confidence is helping lift purchases of so-called
big-ticket goods.  Ford Motor Co.  said U.S. auto sales in
December are running at a 12 million unit annual rate, and
forecast sales may rise to almost 13 million next year.  “We have a high degree of confidence that 2011 is going to
be a stronger sales year,”  George Pipas , Ford’s sales analyst,
said in a Dec. 20 briefing with reporters in Dearborn, Michigan,
where the company is based. “We’re a whole lot better off than
we were a year ago.”  President Barack Obama on Dec. 17 signed into law an $858
billion bill that extends for two years Bush-era tax cuts for
all income levels, continues expanded jobless insurance benefits
to the long-term unemployed for 13 months and reduces payroll
taxes during 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  