-- U.S. Congress Votes to Aid 9/11 Clean-Up Crews, Rescuers Before Adjourning
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-12-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/u-s-congress-votes-to-aid-9-11-clean-up-crews-rescuers-before-adjourning.html
The U.S. Congress passed legislation
to help rescuers, cleanup crews and others who are suffering
from ailments linked to the wreckage caused by the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks in New York City.  As lawmakers headed toward adjournment for the year, the
Senate passed the measure by voice vote yesterday after
Republicans dropped their opposition to it. The House followed
with a roll call vote, passing the bill 206-60. It now goes to
President  Barack Obama  for his signature.  “Remember days like today, where America -- not Democrats,
not Republicans, not New Yorkers, not Wyomingites -- rose to the
occasion,” said Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat,
at a celebratory news conference following the vote in his
chamber. “That Statue of Liberty must have a grin from ear to
ear, not just for New York, but for America.  The legislation, which will be effective July 1, provides
$4.3 billion in aid over five years, with $1.5 billion for
health-care benefits and $2.7 billion for compensation.  It establishes more permanent funding for the government
programs providing health care to those who responded to rescue
and cleanup efforts at the World Trade Center site, and to
others who were in the area on Sept. 11, 2001. The aid becomes
benefits that don’t have to be appropriated each year by
Congress. Those covered include people who were living near the
site.  Compromise Reached  The path for the measure’s passage emerged after
negotiations between Republicans led by Senator  Tom Coburn  of
Oklahoma and Democrats Schumer, Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand  of
New York and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada.  “We didn’t get everything we wanted,” Reid said at the
news conference. “This is $4.3 billion better than nothing.”  The Democrats agreed to reduce the bill’s cost from the
$6.2 billion they were proposing -- a figure already lower than
the more than $7 billion in a measure previously approved by the
House.  The Republicans agreed to let the bill proceed rather than
use procedural motions that would have killed it with the
congressional adjournment.  Coburn, a physician, said the revised bill would close the
victims’ compensation fund in 2016 instead of 2031, and would
include workers’ compensation payments in determining benefits
that victims would receive.  “Every American recognizes the heroism of the 9/11 first
responders, but it is not compassionate to help one group while
robbing future generations of opportunity,” Coburn said in a
statement.  Schumer’s Pledge  Schumer said he would work in future years to extend the
compensation fund past its new expiration date.  He and Gillibrand were surrounded at their press conference
by dozens of first responders and others who helped clean up the
World Trade Center site. Some had made repeated trips to
Washington to prod lawmakers to pass the measure, and cheered in
the House gallery when it became assured of passage during the
roll call.  “We gave it a face and a heartbeat,” said John Feal, a
supervisor for a demolition company that helped clean up the so-
called Ground Zero site and made, by his count, 89 trips to the
U.S. Capitol in the last five years.  To help pay its costs, the bill includes a new 2 percent
excise tax on goods or services purchased from federal
contractors in countries such as China, India and Thailand that
are outside the World Trade Organization’s Agreement on
Government Procurement.  Cal Cohen , president of the Emergency Committee for American
Trade, said he was “troubled” by the tax. He said it could be
challenged and is “inconsistent with our international
obligations.” The Washington-based group advocates policies
aimed at making U.S. companies competitive in foreign markets.  ‘Moral Imperative’  New York Governor  David Paterson  said the bill “has been a
moral imperative, and I am pleased that Congress agrees that
this is not only a priority for New York state, but for our
entire country.”  New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said the events of
Sept. 11 “were an attack on America by a foreign enemy, and
addressing its health impacts is a national duty.”  The mayor, who is chairman of the foundation that will
finance a Sept. 11  Memorial & Museum  at Ground Zero, is founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Since the attacks, lawmakers have provided almost $500
million for screening and treatment services to those involved
in the rescue and recovery efforts, according to the nonpartisan
Congressional Research Service.  The compensation fund made 2,880 death and 2,680 injury
awards totaling more than $7 billion, the Congressional Budget
Office said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 