-- U.S. Chemical Board Says Conflicts Tarnish BP Probe
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2010-12-24T03:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/u-s-board-raises-concerns-about-tests-of-bp-blowout-preventer.html
A  federal panel  investigating the
Deepwater Horizon oil-rig disaster said the examination of a key
safety device that failed to halt the fatal blowout has been
compromised by conflicts of interest.  The U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
said in a letter today it can’t participate “in a meaningful
manner” in the examination of the blowout preventer retrieved
from the ocean floor after the disaster at BP Plc’s Macondo well
in the Gulf of Mexico.  The board wants to ban employees of  Cameron International
Corp. , the maker of the blowout preventer, and rig owner
 Transocean Ltd.  from participating in the examination, according
to the letter sent to the Interior Department’s Bureau of Ocean
Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement  Cameron and Transocean employees have been permitted to
engage in “hands-on manipulation” of the device, known as a
BOP, at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration base
near New Orleans, where testing began last month,  Rafael Moure- Eraso , chairman of the Chemical Safety Board, said in the letter
to  Michael Bromwich , who oversees the bureau formerly known as
the Minerals Management Service.  ‘Diminishes Credibility’  “That approach diminishes the credibility of the entire
process and jeopardizes the public’s trust in the examination
results,” Moure-Eraso wrote. “Given the well-publicized
history of improper relationships between the former Minerals
Management Service and members of the oil industry, one would
have expected that extraordinary care would be taken to conduct
the BOP testing above reproach.”  Cameron and Transocean “are observers only and are not
involved in the examination” of the blowout preventer, David
Smith, a spokesman for the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management,
said in an e-mailed statement. They are there to “provide
technical expertise.”  The chemical board is one of several federal agencies
trying to determine what went wrong on April 20 when a surge of
explosive gas erupted from London-based BP’s well about 40 miles
(65 kilometers) from the Louisiana shore. The catastrophe killed
11 rig workers, sank the $365 million rig and caused the leak of
an estimated 4.9 million barrels of crude.  The blowout preventer was supposed to cut off the flow of
gas from the well before it grew out of control. Metal blades
inside the stack failed to slice and crimp the pipe connecting
the well to the rig when workers realized a blowout was
occurring, according to testimony before a joint U.S. Coast
Guard-Interior Department  investigative panel .  Det Norske’s Consultants  The Coast Guard-Interior Department in October hired  Det
Norske Veritas , the Oslo-based maritime risk-management
association that represents 130 nations, to oversee testing of
the BOP, a 50-foot (15-meter) stack of valves. Det Norske hired
Cameron and Transocean employees as consultants for the job,
Moure-Eraso said in today’s letter.  The chemical board demanded that the Interior Department
remove all Cameron and Transocean workers from the BOP
examination; terminate the contract with Det Norske, or modify
it to allow for oversight by a neutral, third-party; and give
the agency access to all photographic and video documentation of
the tests.  “Without these changes to the current BOP examination
process, the American people will have reason to doubt the
integrity of the investigation,” Moure-Eraso wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  