-- Mukherjee Seeks to `Soften Mood' in Political Standoff Over Telecom Probe
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2010-12-23T06:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/mukherjee-seeks-to-soften-mood-in-political-standoff-over-telecom-probe.html
India’s Finance Minister Pranab
Mukherjee offered to hold a special session of  parliament  to
debate opposition demands for a cross-party probe of the 2008
sale of phone licenses, seeking to end a political standoff
before a crucial budget vote early next year.  The  Bharatiya Janata Party -led National Democratic Alliance
wants a Joint Parliamentary Committee to investigate alleged
impropriety after the nation’s chief auditor reported last month
that the auction of airwaves may have cost the exchequer $31
billion. The opposition parties organized a rally in New Delhi
yesterday to “expose widespread corruption” in Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh’s Congress-led government.  “If they assure that there will be a debate, I’m ready to
call a special session of parliament before the budget session
so that this issue is debated,” Mukherjee said at a function in
the capital yesterday.  The nation’s parliament saw 22 consecutive days of
gridlock, with only four bills passed of the 36 planned, during
its winter session that ended Dec. 13, making it the least
productive in at least 25 years. Singh needs to resolve the
impasse and seek opposition support for his government’s tax
proposals and spending plans to be presented by Mukherjee in the
budget session late February, and also to pass pending bills.  Mukherjee’s comments are “an olive leaf to the opposition
to allow the budget” to get passed, said  N. Bhaskara Rao ,
chairman of the Centre for Media Studies in New Delhi. “Before
the start of the budget session in February, the government
wants to soften the mood of the opposition.”  Answer or Quit  BJP leader Arun Jaitley yesterday told supporters that
Singh must resign if he can’t answer queries on the phone
permits. “The government can’t run in an atmosphere of
suspicion.” The party will cooperate only if Singh meets its
demands, spokesman Prakash Javadekar, said today.  The biggest crisis of Singh’s second term intensified after
the publication of a Nov. 16 report by the  Comptroller and
Auditor General of India  that the award of mobile-phone licenses
at below-market prices. The CAG said local units of companies
including Telenor ASA and Emirates Telecommunications Corp.
suppressed facts and submitted fictitious documents to win
permits.  Two days earlier, Telecommunications Minister  Andimuthu Raja  had resigned from Singh’s cabinet, denying any wrongdoing.  Singh told his party workers on Dec. 20 that he would
punish anyone found guilty in multiple probes into the alleged
scam and he offered to face the Public Accounts Committee, a
panel of lawmakers examining the auditor’s auction report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  