-- Hungary's Credit Rating Cut by Fitch on Budget; Debt Grade Nears `Abyss'
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-12-23T14:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/hungary-debt-rating-is-cut-one-level-to-bbb-by-fitch-outlook-is-negative.html
Hungary had its credit rating cut to
the lowest investment grade by Fitch Ratings, which joined
 Moody’s Investors Service  and Standard & Poor’s in questioning
the sustainability of the new Cabinet’s fiscal policy.  Fitch downgraded Hungary one step to BBB-, the company said
in a statement from London. The outlook for all three ratings
companies is negative, which means they are more likely to
reduce the rating to junk than to raise it or keep it unchanged.  “We are now only a step away from the abyss,”  Gyorgy Barta , a Budapest-based economist at  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA , said
in a phone interview today.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is bringing private pension
funds under state control and imposed special taxes on banking,
energy, telecommunications and retailing to narrow the budget
gap below the European Union limit of 3 percent of gross
domestic product next year and balance income tax cuts. Hungary
is the EU’s most-indebted eastern member, with public debt
estimated at 79 percent of GDP this year.  The forint slid 0.7 percent to 278.13 per euro at 3:53 p.m.
in Budapest. The benchmark BUX stock index fell 0.7 percent. The
cost of insuring Hungarian debt rose, with credit-default swaps
increasing to 376.8 basis points from 375.2 basis points at
12:40 p.m in London.  The government will probably meet its target of reducing
the 2011 deficit to 2.9 percent from an estimated 3.8 percent
this year, Fitch said. The figure is “flattered by extra”
revenue, which will leave a “substantial” deficit in later
years as the special taxes ease, it said.  ‘Wrong Direction’  Orban’s plans “go in the wrong direction for further
fiscal consolidation,” Fitch said in a statement. “The
reversal of pension reforms and lack of a coherent medium-term
fiscal strategy undermines confidence in the long-term
sustainability of the public finances.”  Fitch’s downgrade was "regrettable but unsurprising" and
"failed to take into account" a plan to cut the debt level next
year, the Economy Ministry said in a statement today. Government
measures that "harm the interests and perspectives of global
capital in the short term" led to the downgrade, the ministry
said, adding that Hungary expects its credit ratings to rise in
the "long term."  Following Argentina  With 3 trillion forint ($14.2 billion) in private pension
fund assets, Hungary is following the example of Argentina,
which in 2001 confiscated pension savings before the country
stopped servicing its debt. The government in Buenos Aires
nationalized the $24 billion industry two years ago to
compensate for falling tax revenue after a 2005 debt
restructuring.  Ratings companies put Hungary’s rating on review for a
possible downgrade in July after economic-policy talks between
the government and the  International Monetary Fund  failed.
Hungary was the first EU member to obtain an IMF-led bailout in
2008. Orban ended IMF cooperation saying he needed “freedom”
to conduct economic policy.  “The downgrade of Hungary’s ratings reflects a material
worsening in the underlying medium-term budget position, while
relatively high levels of public, external and domestic foreign-
currency bank debt leave the country vulnerable to negative
shocks,” Ed Parker, head of emerging Europe in Fitch’s
Sovereigns team, said in the statement.  Ending Austerity  Elected in April on a pledge to end five years of austerity
after the worst recession in 18 years, Orban plans to use the
retirement fund assets to pay current government pensions and
reduce debt as he seeks to cut the budget deficit.  The Cabinet is also using the special industry levies to
plug budget holes and fund a reduction in the personal income
tax. The government plans to announce spending cuts of as much
as 800 billion forint at the end of February, Economy Minister
 Gyorgy Matolcsy  said on Nov. 23 without providing details.  “This all goes to show the lack of budget sustainability
and the fact there is little faith in the ratings agencies in
the ‘structural plan’ coming in the new year,” London-based
economist  Peter Attard Montalto  of Nomura International said in
an e-mail.  ‘Bold But Risky’  The downgrade came an hour before lawmakers were scheduled
to approve the 2011 budget, which forecasts 3 percent economic
 growth  and 3.5 percent  inflation . The  shortfall  is estimated at
2.94 percent of GDP, down from 3.8 percent this year.  The budget plan is “bold but risky,” overestimating
economic growth,  Christoph Rosenberg , head of a visiting IMF
delegation, said on Oct. 25 in Budapest. S&P estimated the
shortfall may rise to 6 percent of GDP by 2014.  Moody’s downgraded Hungary by two steps on Dec. 6 to Baa3,
its lowest investment grade. S&P on Nov. 3 maintained Hungary’s
rating at BBB-, a step above junk.  “We need some time to have results,” Orban said at a Dec.
7 press conference in Stockholm. “In the close future, we will
be upgraded again because the results will be on our side.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  