-- Turkey Holds Nuclear Talks With Japan After South Korean Discussions Fail
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2010-12-23T06:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/turkey-in-exclusive-talks-with-japan-to-build-nuclear-plant-yildiz-says.html
Turkey is holding exclusive talks
with Japan to build its second nuclear power plant after failing
to reach an agreement with South Korea.  Turkey aims to conclude a deal with Japan in three months,
Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said today in an interview in
Tokyo. Yildiz is due to hold talks with  Toshiba Corp. ,  Tokyo
Electric Power Co.  and  Itochu Corp.   South Korea and Turkey failed to reach an agreement to
build a nuclear power plant in Sinop on the Black Sea coast
because of “differences in issues including electricity sales
price,” South Korea’s Ministry of Knowledge Economy said Nov.
13. Japan, which won a nuclear plant contract in Vietnam in
October, plans to spur economic growth by exporting more nuclear
reactors and technology products.  “We have some targets to recover the time we have lost”
to build the nuclear plant, Yildiz said. “Within three months,
main frameworks should be determined,” including financing,
treasury, insurance, partnerships and power tariffs, he said.  Yildiz said his visit to Japan comes after officials from
Toshiba and the Japanese government held two rounds of technical
meetings in Turkey on the project. “They told us their first
impression is quite positive,” he said.  Turkey received an offer from Japan to build a nuclear
plant in the country, CNBC-e television said on Oct. 7, citing
Yildiz. The offer is an “aggressive one,” the Istanbul-based
news channel cited the minister as saying then.  ‘More Aggressive’  “Major players including Japan are getting more aggressive
in the global nuclear market after they were beaten by South
Korea last year to the United Arab Emirates’ $18.6 billion
order,” said  Shin Min Seok , an analyst at Daewoo Securities Co.
in Seoul.  South Korea emerged as a competitor in the global nuclear
market after Korea Electric Power Corp. beat General Electric
Co. and Areva SA in December last year to the U.A.E. order.  Yildiz and his Japanese counterpart  Akihiro Ohata  are due
to sign a memorandum of understanding on nuclear power
cooperation tomorrow, Japan’s trade ministry said in a statement
yesterday.  On Dec. 25, the Turkish minister is scheduled to visit
 Tokyo Electric ’s Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear power plant, the
world’s biggest atomic power station, according to an e-mailed
statement by the ministry. Tokyo Electric officials including
Executive Vice President  Sakae Muto  will meet Yildiz at the
plant in northern Japan, company spokesman Norio Takahashi said
by telephone today.  Calls to the offices of the spokesmen for Toshiba and
Itochu weren’t answered as businesses and markets are shut for a
public holiday today. An Itochu spokesman didn’t immediately
respond to a voice message seeking comment left on his mobile
phone.  Russia and Turkey signed a contract in May to build
Turkey’s first nuclear power plant with four reactors, at a cost
of about $20 billion after more than a year of negotiations.
Russia’s Rosatom Corp. will operate the plant in Akkuyu for 60
years,  Russian Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  said Dec. 15.  “My expectation and hope is that the cost will not be
higher than numbers we have been talking with Russia and South
Korea,” Yildiz said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 