-- Ventana Advises Rejection of Bid From Batista’s EBX
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-12-23T21:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/ventana-advises-shareholders-to-reject-1-5-billion-bid-from-batista-s-ebx.html
  Ventana Gold Corp ., a Canadian
metals explorer in  Colombia , recommended shareholders reject an
unsolicited takeover offer from Eike Batista’s EBX Group Ltd.
that it said undervalues the company.  The board concluded the bid from AUX Canada Acquisition
Inc., formed by EBX to acquire Ventana, wasn’t adequate, the
Vancouver-based company said in a statement. EBX had offered
C$12.63 ($12.51) a share in cash for the shares it doesn’t
already own and valued the whole company at about C$1.5 billion.  “The offer is inadequate and is not in the best interests
of Ventana or its shareholders,” the board said in the
statement. The company is “pursuing and evaluating alternative
strategic transactions in order to identify other options.”  Takeovers of gold-mining companies have increased this year
as the price of the precious metal rose to a record and headed
for a 10th straight annual gain in  New York . Batista’s offer may
start a bidding war for Ventana, said Michael Fowler, a Toronto-
based analyst at Loewen Ondaatje McCutcheon Ltd.  “The asset is attractive to any number of gold-mining
companies,” including  Barrick Gold Corp . or  AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd ., Fowler said today in a telephone interview. The bid and
advised rejection “will probably trigger an option process.”  Ventana advanced 23 cents, or 1.8 percent, to C$13.28 at 4
p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. The shares have climbed
32 percent since Nov. 16, the day before EBX made its intention
to bid public.  ‘Potential That’s Attractive’  Ventana has other parties interested in bidding for the
company because of its La Bodega project in Colombia, Chairman
Richard Warke said today in a telephone interview, declining to
name the companies.  “The property does have that potential that’s attractive
for a major gold company,” Warke said. Interest has come “from
all over.”  Batista, the billionaire who controls Rio de Janeiro-based
EBX, already owns 20 percent of Ventana. An EBX official in  Rio
de Janeiro , who declined to be named according to corporate
policy, said the company had no comment on Ventana’s statement.  Batista, 53, who bought his first gold mine at age 24, also
controls MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, which mines iron ore in
Brazil. Batista has said he plans to turn MMX into a “quasi-
Vale,” a reference to  Brazil ’s Vale SA, the world’s biggest
exporter of  iron ore  and the second-largest nickel producer.  La Bodega Deposit  Ventana owns La Bodega, a deposit that contains inferred
resources of 3.5 million ounces of gold, 19.2 million ounces of
silver and 84.6 million ounces of copper, according to the
company’s  website .  La Bodega is bordered by other mining projects, including a
property owned by  Greystar Resources Ltd ., Fowler said in the
interview.  “People may well be interested in consolidating the whole
district,” Fowler said. “This could be just a first step of a
chess move.”  There have been 316 gold-company mergers and acquisitions
announced this year with a total value of at least $32.6
billion, compared with 295 transactions worth at least $12.5
billion in the same period in 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at   sfrank@bloomberg.net . 