-- Vietnam Credit Rating Cut One Rank by S&P on Risks to Nation's Bank System
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-23T11:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/vietnam-credit-rating-cut-one-rank-by-s-p-on-risks-to-nation-s-bank-system.html
Vietnam’s credit rating was cut by
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services a week after a similar move
by Moody’s Investor Services, putting pressure on the government
to address accelerating inflation and a weakening currency.  S&P lowered Vietnam’s long-term foreign currency sovereign
credit rating by one notch to BB-, three levels below investment
grade and putting the country on par with Bangladesh and
Mongolia. The outlook on the rating is negative, said S&P, which
cited concerns over the country’s banking system. Vietnam’s
short-term ratings have been affirmed at B.  Strong lending growth and macroeconomic volatility have
weakened the balance sheet of the country’s banks, according to
S&P, which cited “persistent resident capital outflows” as
well as a lack of transparency. Moody’s cut Vietnam’s rating to
B1, four levels below investment grade, on Dec. 15, citing the
risk of a balance-of-payments crisis and a drop in foreign
reserves as inflation accelerates and the currency weakens.  “The writing is on the wall for Vietnam. They have always
overemphasized growth and they are now paying the price with
inflation,”  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at  Capital Economics 
in Singapore, said in a telephone interview. “Vietnam needs to
show clear policy leadership and unequivocal action on inflation.
They need to get their fiscal house in order, raise interest
rates and devalue the dong in a controlled manner.”  Bank Ratings  Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam, or Vietcombank, and Bank
for Investment and Development of Vietnam also had their ratings
downgraded from BB to BB- by S&P, while Vietnam Technological
and Commercial Joint Stock Bank and state-owned miner Vietnam
National Coal-Mineral Industries Group, or Vinacomin, had their
outlooks revised to negative.  “A greater susceptibility of Vietnam’s banking system to a
financial or economic shock” prompted the downgrade, S&P said.
The banking system would require direct government support if
such shocks materialized, with associated contingent liabilities
to the government potentially amounting to as much as 60 percent
of gross domestic product, it said, without giving an estimate
for the value.  Nguyen Cong Nghiep, Vietnam’s Deputy Minister of Finance,
said he couldn’t comment on the rating cut as he had not yet
seen the S&P report. The country’s GDP as of last year was $93.2
billion, the International Monetary Fund said in October.  Loan Growth  Policy makers will meet in Hanoi to consider economic
measures after Moody’s move prompted calls from investors and
economists for Vietnam to take action and counter economic risks,
a senior government official, who declined to be identified as
he isn’t authorized to speak about the meetings, said this week.  Fitch Ratings lowered Vietnam’s debt rating in July on
concern about the nation’s “inconsistent” economic policy,
foreign-exchange reserves and banking system.  Loan growth this year will probably exceed a government
target of 25 percent, “which in itself is too high,” the IMF
said in December. It also cited low foreign-exchange reserves, a
“very large” current-account deficit, accelerating inflation
and a currency under “constant depreciation pressure”.  Vietnamese  inflation  quickened to 11.09 percent in November,
the fastest pace since March 2009. The dong has been devalued
three times in the past 13 months, leaving the currency’s
official exchange rate at 19,498 per dollar compared with 17,886
before the first devaluation in November 2009. On the black
market, the dong traded yesterday as weak as 21,110 per dollar.  “Domestic sentiments relating to inflation and exchange-
rate stability remain sensitive,” S&P said. “The negative
outlook on the ratings reflects our expectations that the
current macroeconomic uncertainties would continue to weaken
support for financial stability.”  -- Nicholas Heath . With assistance from  Shamim Adam  in Singapore,
 Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen  and Oanh Ha in Hanoi and  Jason Folkmanis .
Editors:  Ken McCallum ,  Stephanie Phang   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Heath  in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  