-- Why Businesses Can't Stand Free Markets: Veronique de Rugy
-- B y   V e r o n i q u e   d e   R u g y
-- 2010-12-23T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/why-businesses-can-t-stand-free-markets-commentary-by-veronique-de-rugy.html
For almost two decades, the monks of
St. Joseph Abbey in Covington, Louisiana, supported themselves
by making and selling unadorned handmade pine and cypress
 caskets .  But if embalmers and funeral directors in the state of
Louisiana have their way, the monks will be barred from earning
a living by making coffins without a license issued by a state
government board, eight of whose nine members work in the
funeral industry.  Business people love to say how much they cherish free
markets, all the while decrying government that limits
entrepreneurialism and personal freedom.  But the truth is there is nothing most business people like
less than free markets.  Think about it. Competition is good for consumers because
it keeps prices low while increasing the quality and choices of
products and services. Yet competition is hard work for
businesses. They have to fight for customers by innovating and
evolving in ways that consumers demand.  To avoid the gritty work of fighting it out in a free
market, organized private interests -- such as Louisiana’s
licensed funeral directors -- lobby the government for special
regulations, preferential tax treatment and laws that keep out
competition. They lobby lawmakers to constrain the same free
markets in which they originally achieved success.  This practice has been around for as long as there have
been businesses and governments. The great economist  Milton Friedman  cited the example of the Interstate Commerce Commission
in his 1990 book “Free to Choose.”  Farm Power  In the late 1800s farming interests demanded that
government rein in the railroads amid the perception that they
misused their power to influence local politics and set freight
rates too high. The railroads responded by working with Congress
to form the ICC, a regulatory agency populated with industry
insiders. It fixed prices and limited new railroads from
entering the business.  At the urgings of the railroads, the ICC brought the
trucking industry -- a source of competition -- under its
jurisdiction in the 20th century. It limited the number of
trucking licenses, thereby constraining entry into the industry
as shipping volumes ballooned and helping to prop up prices that
would have fallen in a free market.  These and similar practices are rampant today, and not just
among railroads or funeral directors. Each year, private
corporations in America receive about $100 billion in subsidies
from the federal government, gaining an advantage over those
that don’t receive such handouts.  Double Prices  Take the Fanjul family, which controls Florida Crystals
Inc. and Domino Sugar, owns more than 400,000 acres of sugar
cane farms and produces one-third of Florida’s sugar. Yet, the
federal government protects them against competitors by imposing
U.S.  import quotas  that maintain sugar prices at artificially
high levels. U.S. consumers and businesses have had to pay twice
the world price of sugar on average since 1982, according to
economist  Mark Perry .  Why? The fact that the sugar industry spends millions in
lobbying might be one reason.  The U.S. sugar lobby contributes millions of dollars to
political campaigns to maintain federal support for the
subsidies, according to the  Center for Responsive Politics . The
Fanjul family alone spent $715,000 on lobbying in 2008 and has
spent an estimated $2.6 million on political campaigns from 1979
to 2006.  Capture Theory  Such spending surely gets attention. Economists know how
potent this type of lobbying can be. In his seminal 1971
article, “The Theory of Economic Regulation,” Nobel laureate
 George Stigler  introduced so-called  capture theory . Stigler
argued that regulatory agencies are subject to pressure from
both interest groups and the electorate at large. But, as
interest groups are better able to organize and promote their
interests, they hold power over what regulations are put in
place.  Stigler also pointed out that regulation requires in-depth
industry knowledge, so regulatory agencies tend to hire directly
from the very companies they must oversee. Consider the former
secretary of the Treasury Department,  Henry Paulson . The former
chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs played an
important role in shaping and directing the government rescue of
the financial industry, including Goldman. Is it any surprise
that critics of the rescue say that it was too favorable to
bailout money recipients?  Big Surprise  Surprisingly, many Washington watchers were shocked to
discover last year that the most formidable lobbying force in
the capital is the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which reported
spending almost $150 million on lobbying in 2009 out of the
overall $183 million spent by industry associations on arm-
twisting and favor-seeking.  According to the data from the Center for Responsive
Politics, one of the leading contributors to the lobbying effort
was the  National Federation of Independent Business ,
representing some 600,000 small business owners. This shows that
large corporations aren’t the only ones who dislike competition
and crave special favors such as loan guarantees, tax breaks,
lighter regulations and different government contracting rules.
These companies even have a taxpayer-backed lobbying arm in the
Small Business Administration’s  Office of Advocacy .  Unfortunately, this phenomenon isn’t just concentrated at
the federal level. It is the same power of the business lobby
over the executive branch in Louisiana that has forced the monks
of St. Joseph Abbey to take the state to federal  court  to fight
for their ability to make and sell inexpensive caskets.  Let’s hope that any court ruling deals a blow to the
practice of entrenched businesses using government to impose
higher costs on consumers while also thwarting upstart
entrepreneurs. No one said loving free markets was easy.  ( Veronique de Rugy  is a senior research fellow at the
Mercatus Center at George Mason University. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Veronique de Rugy at  vderugy@gmu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  