-- Zoomlion Advances in Hong Kong Trading Debut on China Construction Outlook
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-12-23T08:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-23/zoomlion-rises-in-hong-kong-debut-as-china-construction-increases-profit.html
Changsha Zoomlion Heavy Industry
Science & Technology Development Co.  rose on its Hong Kong
trading debut on speculation China’s economic growth will stoke
demand for bulldozers, cranes and excavators.  China’s second-biggest maker of construction equipment
 climbed  8 percent to HK$16.18 at the close of trading in Hong
Kong. The Changsha, Hunan province-based company raised HK$13
billion ($1.7 billion) selling shares at HK$14.98 apiece.  Zoomlion expects profit to jump at least 76 percent this
year, according to its prospectus, as rising urbanization in the
world’s most populous nation boosts construction of roads,
railways and apartments. The company sold shares near the bottom
of its price range after demand waned for Chinese companies
following a record HK$425 billion of IPOs and a decline in the
benchmark Hang Seng Index.  “The attraction of this company is that it’s a leading
player in the industry in China, which will benefit from future
investment in infrastructure,” said  Castor Pang , a Hong Kong-
based research director at Cinda International Holdings Ltd.
“What we see now is buying from short-term speculative money
betting on a positive industry outlook.”  Hengxin Technology Ltd. , a maker of coaxial cables, which
began trading in Hong Kong today, fell 1.3 percent to close at
HK$2.22.  Expansion Plans  Zoomlion, already listed in Shenzhen, sold 869.6 million
shares in its Hong Kong offering. It will use funds raised in
the sale to build a factory in China and to develop new
products, according to its  prospectus . The company also plans to
open a research and assembly center in Senago, Italy.  “Environmental technology is a bright spot for Zoomlion’s
development and there are opportunities to grow such projects,”
Zoomlion Chief Executive Officer  Zhan Chunxin  told reporters
today in Hong Kong. “We’re always looking out for
acquisitions,” Zhan also said.  China International Capital Corp., Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley managed the sale.  In Shenzhen trading,  Zoomlion  fell 2 percent to close at
14.12 yuan. It has risen 36 percent this year, compared with a
9.5 percent gain for the benchmark  Shenzhen Composite Index .  Urban fixed-asset investment in China rose 24.9 percent in
the first 11 months of this year, government data showed. About
65 percent of the population will live in cities by 2030,
compared with 45 percent now, Zoomlion’s Zhan said Dec. 12.  Raises Profile  “China’s urbanization process is generating demand and
this is a boon for the industry,” said  Stanley Yan , an analyst
at Masterlink Securities Corp. in Shanghai. “A Hong Kong
listing also raises Zoomlion’s international profile, helping
the company gain better access to foreign markets and
technology.”  The amount raised in Hong Kong IPOs next year may decline
to HK$400 billion, according to Ernst & Young LLP, because of a
lack of larger sales. This year’s tally was boosted by AIA Group
Ltd.’s HK$159 billion offering in October and Agricultural Bank
of China Ltd.’s HK$93.5 billion sale in July.  Concerns that China’s attempts to cool inflation may damp
growth have sapped demand for new shares in Hong Kong and caused
the Hang Seng Index to decline 8.3 percent since Nov. 8.  China Datang Corp. Renewable Power Co. and shipbuilder
China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. are trading
below their sale prices after recent IPOs. Chongqing Rural
Commercial Bank Co. is little changed from its sale price after
debuting last week. Huaneng Renewables Corp. scrapped a planned
IPO earlier this month.  The People’s Bank of China this month announced its sixth
increase in reserve-requirement ratios, making major banks set
aside 18.5 percent of deposits.  Consumer prices  rose 5.1 percent
in November from a year earlier, the fastest increase in more
than two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  