-- U.K. FSA Sends Warning to Lenders Over Foreclosures
-- Caroline Binham
-- 2008-11-28T12:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-11-28/u-k-fsa-sends-warning-to-lenders-over-foreclosures-update1-.html

          
          
             Britain’s financial regulator warned
mortgage lenders and home-loan administrators to use repossession
only as a last resort and to prove customers are treated fairly
or risk a penalty.  
 With repossession orders still rising, a  letter  to chief
executive officers of mortgage lenders from the  Financial
Services Authority  published today said companies must have
written foreclosure policies that explain how customers will be
treated if they fall behind on mortgage payments.  
 “Conditions in the mortgage market are difficult and it
seems likely that these conditions will persist for some time,”
said Jon Pain, the FSA’s managing director of retail markets, in
the letter. “It is particularly important for senior management
to ensure the fair treatment of customers, including when they go
into arrears.”  
 Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  stepped up pressure on banks
this week to increase lending. Home repossessions by mortgage
lenders rose 12 percent in the third quarter as higher
unemployment and the shrinking economy left more Britons unable
to pay debts.  
 Foreclosures totaled 11,300, compared with 10,100 in the
second quarter, the  Council of Mortgage Lenders , which represents
British home-loan providers, said last week. Applications to
foreclose rose 9 percent to 38,511 and repossession orders jumped
24 percent to 29,516, the Justice Ministry said on its Web site.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer Alistair Darling’s pre-budget
report to Parliament on Nov. 24 said that Britain’s biggest
mortgage lenders have pledged to not repossess homes within three
months of the owner going into arrears.  
 Distinction  
 The  British Bankers Association , a trade group, said a
distinction should be made between banks, which provide the
majority of home loans in the U.K., and other mortgage lenders.  
 “The banks are committed to treating their customers
fairly, and have made public commitments to approach proactively
customers they feel might be headed for financial trouble before
problems arise,” said  Angela Knight , the BBA’s chief executive
officer, in an e-mailed statement.  
 Lenders must respond to the FSA’s letter by Jan. 31 with
proof of fair policy or risk a possible fine.  
 The FSA already signaled its heightened scrutiny of mortgage
lenders in August, when it first told them to be flexible with
clients behind in repayments. A study by the agency showed that
some lenders were too quick to take court action and didn’t
properly supervise third-party contractors who carried out
repossessions.  
 The FSA had looked at 18 banks’ and building societies’
lending policies. Some couldn’t show that they properly assessed
customers’ ability to repay their mortgages, it said at the time.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Binham in London at 
 cbinham@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        