-- INSTANT VIEW: Retail sales slip, import prices climb
-- 
-- Wed Aug 13, 2008 11:29am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/08/13/us-usa-economy-retailsales-idUSN1333022720080813

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Total sales at U.S. retailers 
edged down 0.1 percent in July on another big drop in auto 
sales, according to a Commerce Department report on Wednesday 
that indicated consumers were straining to keep spending up 
amid rising prices. 

 U.S. import prices climbed a bigger-than-expected 1.7 
percent in July, capping a 21.6 percent gain over the past 12 
months that was the largest in the past 26 years, a Labor 
Department report showed on Wednesday. 
KEY POINTS: RETAIL SALES  * The decline in total July sales was in line with forecasts 
made by Wall Street economists.  * Auto and auto parts sales fell 2.4 percent, their biggest 
drop since April, after a revised 2.1 percent drop in June and 
were off a whopping 10.5 percent from year-ago levels.  * Excluding autos, retail sales were up 0.4 percent in July, 
which was roughly in line with forecasts, following a 0.9 
percent rise in June.  * Economists said before the report was issued that spending 
has been supported by government stimulus checks but that was 
waning in July because most of the checks already have been 
issued. IMPORT/EXPORT PRICES 
* Import prices for petroleum products, including crude oil, 
rose 4.0 percent in July and were up 79.2 percent over the past 
12 months. 
* Economists polled ahead of the report were expecting overall 
import prices to rise 1.0 percent in July, when oil prices set 
a record above $147 per barrel. Since then, oil has fallen 
sharply and a big U.S. corn crop has pushed farm commodity 
prices lower.  
COMMENTS: 
BORIS SCHLOSSBERG, DIRECTOR OF FX RESEARCH, GFT FOREX, NEW 
YORK: "The number was in line with expectations, but it pretty 
much suggests that the trend in retail sales is to the 
downside. The pressure on the dollar especially against the yen 
continues. There is very little organic consumer demand coming 
out of the U.S. economy and we think it's going to deteriorate 
further as the year progresses. For that reason we are very 
confident that the Fed will stay stationary for much longer 
than the market thinks. The end result is that the low yielders 
like the yen and Swiss franc are going to outperform against 
the dollar as the market realizes that there is no Fed rate 
hike forthcoming for much longer. The import prices are a 
little hotter-than-expected, but well off their highs. The 
market is basically looking at the price of oil as the key 
component of import prices and as long as oil prices do not 
reignite the worries about import driven inflation are going to 
fade away."  
MARC PADO, U.S. MARKET STRATEGIST, CANTOR FITZGERALD & CO, SAN 
FRANCISCO: "A little disappointing on the headlines. "Obviously gasoline is the issue, especially in those 
import-export numbers. I think the market's going to be able to 
take it with a little grain of salt, just because with crude 
being such a major component of these numbers, gasoline prices 
at the pump, etc., we know that prices are coming down, that 
actually helps. "There's a little bit of a lag in consumer sentiment... 
Yes, prices went down aggressively late in July at the pump, 
but that's didn't translate into running out and buying 
clothes. That takes time. "You have to have a sustained price decline before you 
start spending that extra money on something else. So, as much 
as the number was worse than expected, I think the implication 
from this number is once sustained, this will increase consumer 
confidence and their willingness to consumer in other goods."  
CARLEY GARNER, CEO AND SENIOR ANALYST, DECARLEY TRADING, LAS 
VEGAS: "There was a quick kneejerk reaction of Treasuries (to the 
data reports) on light volume: we probably saw the market 
running stops." "The bond market has been fighting between inflation and 
slow growth, and which one to put more emphasis on. A month ago 
it was inflation. Now it's more about growth. Commodities have 
come down extremely. A lot of the inflation worries are still 
there but have been put on the back burner. "I think Treasuries are going to creep higher. Seasonally 
this time of year is very strong for Treasuries."  
GARY THAYER, SENIOR ECONOMIST, WACHOVIA SECURITIES, ST. LOUIS, 
MISSOURI: "Import prices hurt bonds. Import prices have been boosted 
by oil all year, but today's report is another indicator that 
non-petroleum import prices are also rising on a more sustained 
basis. That is rekindling concerns about inflation problems. If 
you look at the breakdown of import prices, we're seeing a lot 
of strength still in industrial supplies and also in food and 
beverages. There is potential inflation outside of oil and the 
credit markets get a little nervous when they believe that food 
and energy price inflation might spread. "Retail sales were held down by the auto sector. High 
gasoline prices have been hurting auto sales all year. The tax 
rebates didn't help the auto sector. However, in July we saw a 
rebound in furniture sales and electronics after a drop in 
June. So the tax rebates may have helped a little, but not 
every aspect of consumer spending."  
MARKET REACTION: 
STOCKS: U.S. equity index futures add to losses 
BONDS: U.S. Treasury prices slip, then rally 
DOLLAR: U.S. dollar edges lower 
RATE FUTURES: Fed fund futures steady, suggesting about a 14 
percent chance of September FOMC rate hike.