-- MAN AG Appoints Member to Scania Nominating Committee
-- Chad Thomas
-- 2007-11-07T11:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-07/man-ag-appoints-member-to-scania-nominating-committee-update1-.html

          
          
             MAN AG, the German truckmaker that
tried and failed to buy  Scania AB (SCVB) , named a representative to the
panel that selects the board of directors of the Swedish rival,
in a move that Scania said conflicts with local compliance rules.  
 MAN, which became Scania's third-largest shareholder during
the failed takeover battle, picked Ekkehard Schulz to serve on
the Swedish truckmaker's nomination committee, Soedertaelje,
Sweden-based Scania said in a release today. Schulz, the chief
executive officer of German steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG, sits on
MAN's supervisory board.  
 MAN's decision ``is not in compliance'' with the Swedish
corporate governance recommendation that nominating committee
members should not include competitors, Scania said.  
 Shareholders seeking a seat on a Swedish company board of
directors must get approval from the nominating committee. MAN
Chief Executive Officer Hakan Samuelsson, who accumulated a 14.8
percent Scania holding during a failed takeover attempt of his
former employer, said earlier this year he didn't see a need at
that time to have Scania board representation.  
 MAN spokesman Wieland Schmitz said he could not immediately
comment on the Scania release.  
 Samuelsson's 10.3 billion-euro ($15.2 billion) bid for
Scania failed in January when  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Investor AB (INVEA) ,
Scania's largest stakeholders, rejected MAN's offer as too low.
Volkswagen, Europe's biggest carmaker, wants a ``friendly''
combination of its commercial-vehicles unit with MAN and Scania.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chad Thomas in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Jasper at   cjasper@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        