-- Paulson, Schumer offer U.S. financial bailout plans
-- By  Richard Cowan  and  Kevin Drawbaugh
-- Thu Sep 18, 2008 4:32pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/09/18/businesspro-financial-bailout-dc-idUSN1845655020080918

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - A possible federal plan to calm 
financial markets and address the housing crisis began to take 
shape on Thursday, with rival proposals from U.S. Treasury 
Secretary Henry Paulson and Sen. Charles Schumer. 

  Paulson has been talking with congressional leaders about 
possibly setting up a federal agency to deal with the broken 
mortgage debt instruments that are choking global capital 
markets, said a congressional aide and a lobbyist.  "It's a modernized version of the Resolution Trust 
Corporation (RTC), which was used after the S&L crisis," said 
the aide, declining to be further identified.  Schumer offered a different idea in a speech urging that 
future federal capital infusions for banks be conditioned on 
their making loan modifications and other terms.  The New York Democrat proposed setting up a federal agency 
that would "provide capital to struggling financial 
institutions in exchange for an equity stake in the banks," 
similar to the Depression-era Reconstruction Finance Corp 
(RFC).  Under the proposal, banks would agree to "judicial loan 
modifications" and allow "bankruptcy judges to facilitate the 
refinancing of mortgage loans on primary residences, which is 
the major obstruction to efforts to help the housing market."  Schumer said the RFC-type measure would allow government 
and private efforts to modify loans, and avoid defaults and 
foreclosures that have been at the root of the economy's 
turmoil.  "The RTC model, by taking distressed assets off the books 
of troubled institutions, would simply transfer excessive risk 
to the U.S. government without addressing the plight of 
homeowners," said the statement from Schumer's office.  House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi left open the 
possibility of passing U.S. financial industry reform 
legislation this year.  "If we work together with the administration to do 
something before January, before the elections, all the 
better," she told reporters at a press conference.  President George W. Bush delivered a brief statement from 
the White House, saying he was prepared to take further 
measures to stabilize and strengthen the markets.  Corporate chief executive officers, in a meeting organized 
by the Business Roundtable lobbying group, met on Wednesday 
with administration officials and congressional leaders to 
discuss the events of recent weeks and what to do about them.  The CEOs' message to the officials was that "they shouldn't 
try to throw something together at the last minute that would 
potentially create more uncertainty," said Thomas Lehner, a 
director of public policy at the roundtable.  He added that the CEOs viewed the administration's actions 
thus far as "timely and appropriate."  Congress is trying to wrap up its work within a week or so, 
allowing lawmakers to campaign for re-election. On November 4, 
voters will pick a new U.S. president. All 435 House seats and 
one-third of the Senate seats are also up for grabs.  (Additional reporting by  Jeremy Pelofsky , editing by Leslie 
Gevirtz)