-- Insurers May Use Surpluses to Pay for Older Mis-Selling Claims
-- Caroline Binham
-- 2009-02-23T14:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-02-23/insurers-may-use-surpluses-to-pay-for-older-mis-selling-claims.html

          
          
             U.K. insurers can continue to pay for
past and current “mis-selling” claims out of surplus funds
earmarked for policyholders, under proposals published today by
Britain’s financial regulator.  
 The  Financial Services Authority  began an additional review
of “inherited estates,” the money insurance companies have left
over from investments made with policyholders’ premium payments,
used for special payouts to policyholders. The FSA proposed in
June that insurers shouldn’t be able to use these funds to pay
claims over inappropriately sold policies. Today’s paper proposes
that the change should only apply to future claims.  
 The FSA was accused last year by a parliamentary committee
of not doing enough to prevent conflicts of interest in the for-
profit insurance market, which are supported by 400 billion
pounds ($586 billion) of assets in the U.K. The agency has been
under pressure from  Which Ltd ., a consumer group, that contends
insurers should distribute more of the surpluses to
policyholders.  
 “The FSA has, once again, left policyholders in the lurch
and sided with the financial services industry,” said Which? in
an e-mailed statement today. The group contends that insurers
should have to bear all the costs of past claims as well.  
 The FSA’s proposals today only apply to public companies
like  Aviva Plc (AV/)  and  Prudential Plc (PRU)  rather than mutual funds, which
are owned by policyholders. Proprietary funds have assets of 340
billion pounds in the for-profit market, or 85 percent of the
total, according to FSA data.  
 Aviva, the U.K.’s largest insurer by premiums, has about 2.6
billion pounds ($5.1 billion) in surplus funds that it may use to
make special payouts to customers.  
 Prudential has about 8.7 billion pounds of surplus assets
for a payout. The company has used 1.6 billion pounds from its
inherited estate to pay compensation costs to customers who were
mis-sold policies, U.K. Chief Executive Officer Nick Prettejohn
told a parliamentary select committee last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Binham in London 
 cbinham@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        