-- Manchester City Matches Arsenal on Points Atop Premier League Standings
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-12-11T19:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/manchester-city-matches-arsenal-on-points-atop-premier-league-standings.html
Manchester City defeated West Ham
3-1 to pull even on points with Arsenal at the top of the
standings in English soccer’s Premier League.  Goals from  Yaya Toure  and Adam Johnson helped City match
Arsenal with 32 points. The Gunners holds the top spot on goal
difference.  Newcastle beat Liverpool 3-1 to give new manager  Alan Pardew  a win in his first game. Aston Villa defeated West
Bromwich 2-1, Blackpool beat Stoke 1-0, Fulham and Sunderland
tied 0-0, as did Everton and Wigan.  Manchester City ran its unbeaten run to seven games with
the away win at Upton Park in east London. City has 17 points
away this season to tie Arsenal for most in the league.  Toure opened the scoring after 30 minutes with a shot into
the top corner of the net. The visitors almost doubled their
lead moments later as Pablo Barrera cleared Mario Balotelli’s
header off the line.  City made it 2-0 in the 73rd minute as Toure’s shot hit the
goal post and deflected in off West Ham goalkeeper  Robert Green 
for an own goal. Adam Johnson added the third goal in the 81st
minute before West Ham’s James Tomkins closed the scoring in the
final minute.  Arsenal and Manchester City are one point ahead of
Manchester United, with Chelsea two back. Chelsea visits
Tottenham tomorrow and United hosts Arsenal in two days. West
Ham remains in last place with 12 points.  Winning Debut  Joey Barton  and  Andy Carroll  scored in the final 10 minutes
to make Pardew, who replaced the fired Chris Hughton two days
ago, a winner in his Newcastle debut.  Kevin Nolan  opened the scoring after 15 minutes before
Liverpool’s  Dirk Kuyt  tied the game early in the second half.
Barton put the Magpies in front in the 80th minute and Carroll
clinched the victory in stoppage time.  Stewart Downing  and  Emile Heskey  scored the goals as Aston
Villa ended a four-match winless run.  Paul Scharner  scored for
West Brom in the 89thth minute and  Jerome Thomas  had a chance to
tie in stoppage time but shot over the goal.  D.J. Campbell scored early in the second half to give
Blackpool the away win over Stoke, which had its five-match
unbeaten run stopped.  Fulham remained out of the three relegation places at the
bottom of the standings on goal difference over Wigan following
its home draw with Sunderland. The Cottagers are now winless in
seven games, as Sunderland moved above Bolton into sixth place.  Wigan couldn’t move out of the relegation places with its
draw at Everton, which is winless in seven games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 