-- Asian Stocks Fluctuate as Japan, Australia Rise, Hong Kong's Index Drops
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-12-11T01:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/asian-stocks-fluctuate-as-japan-australia-rise-hong-kong-s-index-drops.html
Asian  stocks  fluctuated this week as
Japanese and Australian benchmark indexes rose after reports
showed better-than-estimated economic growth or employment,
while China-related companies fell on concern policy makers will
raise interest rates to slow inflation.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s biggest
publicly traded bank, climbed 4.2 percent. Westpac Banking Corp.,
Australia’s second-largest bank by market value, gained 2.9
percent. Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s
biggest bank by market value, declined 2.5 percent in Hong Kong
and  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s third-largest
lender, tumbled 5.1 percent.  “Markets tend to go hot and cold on expectations that
Chinese authorities will take more steps in their tightening
campaign,” said  Nader Naeimi , a Sydney-based strategist at AMP
Capital Investors Ltd., which manages about $93 billion and is a
unit of AMP Ltd., Australia’s second-largest asset manager.
“There is pressure on interest rates in China, but I don’t
think there’s any reason they’d would want to crush growth.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.3 percent to 133.09 this
week, holding near a one-month high. It jumped 3.5 percent last
week after three straight weekly drops in which it lost 4.4
percent. The index has rallied about 22 percent from this year’s
low on May 25.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 0.3 percent this week.
Gross domestic product grew at an annualized 4.5 percent rate in
the three months ended Sept. 30, faster than the 3.9 percent
reported last month, the Cabinet Office said Dec. 9. The median
forecast of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a
4.1 percent expansion.  ‘Good Direction’  “Investors already knew that higher capital spending in
the July-September period would boost Japan’s GDP, but they took
it as a good direction once the result was disclosed,” said
 Masaru Hamasaki , who helps oversee about $17 billion as chief
strategist at Toyota Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 0.9 percent. The
number of people employed gained 54,600 from October, the
statistics bureau said Dec. 9. That compares with the median
forecast for a 20,000 increase in a Bloomberg News survey of 26
economists. The jobless rate fell to 5.2 percent from 5.4
percent a month earlier.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index retreated 0.7 percent. China’s
 Shanghai Composite Index  fell less than 0.1 percent. Taiwan’s
Taiex index rose 1.1 percent and South Korea’s  Kospi index  rose
1.5 percent.  Sumco Plunges  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial climbed 4.2 percent to 419 yen in
Tokyo this week. Nippon Steel Corp., Japan’s biggest steelmaker,
advanced 3.9 percent to 293 yen. Westpac increased 2.9 percent
to A$22.57 in Sydney, and Commonwealth Bank of Australia gained
2.4 percent to A$50.59.  Also in Tokyo,  Sumco Corp.  tumbled 18 percent to 1,103 yen,
this week’s biggest percentage drop on the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index. The company widened its full-year net-loss forecast and
Credit Suisse Group AG cut its rating on the shares to
“underperform” from “neutral.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has gained about 11 percent
this year as economic data and corporate earnings helped
overcome concern that China’s steps to curb property prices and
Europe’s government-debt crisis will hamper a global economic
recovery. Stocks on the gauge are valued at about 14.7 times
 estimated earnings  on average, compared with 23 times at the
start of the year.  Chinese Banks  Chinese developers and banks declined this week after the
statistics bureau brought forward the release of economic data,
including inflation, by two days to Dec. 11. The move signals an
interest-rate increase may be imminent, said  Glenn Maguire ,
chief economist for Asia at Paris-based Societe Generale SA.  After yesterday’s close of Asian stock trading, China’s
central bank said it will raise the amount the nation’s lenders
must hold as reserves by 50 basis points.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China sank 2.5 percent to
HK$5.83 in Hong Kong. China Resources Land Ltd., a state-
controlled developer, dropped 2.6 percent to HK$13.76, while
 Agricultural Bank of China  tumbled 5.1 percent to HK$4.06. China
Vanke Co., the country’s largest publicly traded property
developer, slid 4.6 percent to 8.10 yuan in Shenzhen, China.  China’s government yesterday started the so-called Central
Economic Work Conference, a three-day conclave in Beijing.
Attendees include the heads of the top government ministries and
China’s largest state enterprises.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 