-- Asia Currencies Advance This Week as China Trade Data Lifts Growth Outlook
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2010-12-11T04:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/asia-currencies-advance-as-china-s-trade-data-improves-outlook-for-growth.html
The Taiwan dollar and Philippine
peso led gains in Asian currencies this week as China’s exports
beat economists’ estimates, boding well for the regional
economic recovery and trade.  The yuan rounded out its best week in a month after China’s
trade surplus swelled to $22.9 billion in November as  exports 
and imports surged to records. Malaysia’s ringgit rose for a
second week, its best winning streak in two months, after
reports showed overseas shipments and manufacturing grew more
than analysts had predicted.  “China’s export surprise will mean strong demand for
products made in the rest of Asia,” said Julie Yu, a Taipei-
based foreign-exchange trader at Taiwan Shin Kong Commercial
Bank. “Economic growth in the region will continue to support
gains in Asian currencies.”  The peso rose 0.5 percent to 43.675 per dollar this week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Taiwan’s dollar
appreciated 0.5 percent to NT$30.585, the ringgit climbed 0.2
percent 3.1345 and the yuan gained 0.12 percent to 6.6556.  Global funds bought a total of $1.3 billion more stocks
than they sold in Indonesia, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand
this week, exchange data show. The International Monetary Fund
predicts Asia’s developing economies will expand 9.4 percent in
2010, while advanced economies will grow 2.7 percent.  ‘Recovery Durable’  The ringgit traded near a two-week high after the
government reported on Dec. 9 that  factory production  rose 3
percent in October from a year earlier, beating the median
estimate of 2.1 percent in a Bloomberg News survey.  Exports  grew
1.3 percent that month, compared with predictions for a 1.4
percent decline, a report on Dec. 3 showed. The currency has
appreciated 9.3 percent this year, headed for its best annual
performance since 1973.  “The economic data have been resilient, and the recovery
in this region is seen as durable,” said  D. Sivadass , a
currency forwards trader at EON Capital Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur.
“The big picture in the market is still for the ringgit to
appreciate next year.”  The yuan rose for a second week on speculation China’s
central bank will raise interest rates to temper inflation.
Consumer prices accelerated to the fastest pace in 28 months in
November, rising a more-than-forecast 5.1 percent from a year
earlier, a statistics bureau report showed in Beijing today.
Producer-price inflation was 6.1 percent, higher than any of 28
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had estimated.  President Hu Jintao and Premier Wen Jiabao are meeting for
a three-day Central Economic Work Conference to discuss monetary
policy for 2011.  Inflation Forecast  “The Central Economic Work Conference will likely approve
overall tightening of monetary conditions,” said  Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based senior strategist at Credit Agricole
CIB. She estimates the central bank will increase the benchmark
interest rate by 1 percentage point by mid-2011.  Taiwan’s dollar advanced for a second week after the
government reported on Dec. 7 that  exports  increased a better-
than-forecast 21.8 percent in November from a year earlier.
 Consumer prices  rose 1.53 percent, the fastest pace in nine
months, data the day before showed.  “Taiwan’s strong growth will continue to attract overseas
funds,” Taiwan Shin Kong’s Yu said. “The central bank will
continue to slow gains in the currency, but I still think it’s
highly likely the currency will hit NT$30 soon.”  Elsewhere, South Korea’s won fell 0.4 percent for the week
to 1,143.60 per dollar and Indonesia’s rupiah dropped 0.1
percent to 9,018. India’s rupee was little changed at 45.11 and
the Thai baht traded at 30.08 from 30.05 a week earlier.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Andrea Wong  in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 