-- Berlusconi Says He's `Certain' Italy's Government Will Win Confidence Vote
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2010-12-11T11:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/berlusconi-says-he-s-certain-italy-s-government-will-win-confidence-vote.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said he’s “certain” the government will win a
confidence vote in parliament on Dec. 14, according to a  pre-
recorded speech  posted on the internet.  “Italy needs everything except a government crisis and a
crisis of stability,” Berlusconi said. Investors fear
instability and a political crisis, which may also impact on the
country’s credit ratings, he said. The speech and transcript
were posted on an official website of People of Liberty,
Berlusconi’s party.  Rival political blocs are staging rallies today and
tomorrow to drum up support before the votes in both houses of
parliament next week. A loss in either vote will topple the
government and prompt President Giorgio Napolitano to consult
with the major parties to see if a new government can be formed,
either by Berlusconi or other political forces.  Such governments are generally given a mandate to carry out
reforms before going to the polls, and Napolitano has said he
wants the election law revamped prior to any national election.  Berlusconi’s grip on power has been slipping since July
when former ally Gianfranco Fini broke ranks with the premier,
accusing him of stifling debate within the ruling party and
passing laws aimed to shield himself from corruption
prosecutions. Fini may have enough backers to topple the
government in parliament’s lower house.  The premium investors demand to hold 10-year Italian bonds
instead of German equivalents reached a euro-era high of 212
basis points on Nov. 30. It closed at 161.1 basis points
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Donovan at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 