-- Bernard Madoff's Son Takes Own Life on Anniversary of His Father's Arrest
-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-12-12T19:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/bernard-madoff-s-son-takes-own-life-on-anniversary-of-his-father-s-arrest.html
Mark Madoff , the elder son of
convicted swindler  Bernard Madoff , committed suicide yesterday,
two years to the day after his father’s arrest.  Madoff, 46, was found at 7:30 a.m. hanging from a dog leash
attached to a pipe in the living room of his Manhattan
apartment, while his 2-year-old son slept in an adjoining
bedroom, said  Paul Browne , a spokesman for the New York City
Police Department.  Mark Madoff and his brother, Andrew, were under
investigation but hadn’t faced any criminal charges in the Ponzi
scheme that led to their father’s jailing. The sons, along with
Bernard Madoff’s brother and five directors of the U.K. arm of
Bernard Madoff’s investment firm, were sued Dec. 8 by  Irving Picard , the court-appointed trustee recovering assets for
Madoff’s victims.  “This is a terrible and unnecessary tragedy,”  Martin Flumenbaum  of law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison
said in a statement yesterday. “Mark was an innocent victim of
his father’s monstrous crime who succumbed to two years of
unrelenting pressure from false accusations and innuendo.”  Increasing Distress  Mark Madoff had become increasingly distressed in the last
week as the second anniversary of his father’s arrest approached
and Picard sued his children, according to a person familiar
with Madoff and the family. The person wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly for the family and declined to be identified.  Adding to the pressure on Mark Madoff was the Nov. 18
arrest of  Annette Bongiorno , a longtime aide to his father, and
reports in the Wall Street Journal last week that she was being
urged to cooperate in the investigation targeting the Madoff
brothers, the person said. Mark Madoff was also troubled by the
knowledge that the Journal was preparing an article for
publication yesterday to mark two years since Bernard Madoff’s
jailing, according to the person.  Ashley Huston , a spokeswoman for the Wall Street Journal,
said “we’re declining to comment” yesterday.  Sometime after 4 a.m. yesterday, Mark Madoff e-mailed his
wife, Stephanie, who was in Florida with their older child, to
tell her that he loved her and to look after the children,
according to the person. When she received the e-mail, she
called her stepfather, Martin London, and asked him to go to the
apartment because she was worried, the person said.  The New York medical examiner’s office ruled Madoff’s death
a suicide by hanging. Toxicology and tissue testing, which has
yet to be completed, isn’t public information,  Ellen Borakove , a
spokeswoman for the office, said today.  Confessed to Sons  The Madoff case came to light in December 2008 after the
elder Madoff confessed to his two sons, who also worked for him
in the business, that he had used money from new investors to
pay earlier ones.  The trustee, Picard, had accused Mark and his brother
Andrew of being involved in their father’s scheme because the
separate business units they ran were actually part of one
enterprise.  “Firm manuals provided that in Bernard Madoff’s absence,
Mark and/or  Andrew Madoff  were responsible for carrying out the
firm’s policies,” Picard said in court papers filed in May. The
brothers both denied being involved in their father’s business
in court papers seeking to dismiss the lawsuit.  Madoff’s death “is a tragic development and my sympathy
goes out to Mark Madoff’s family,” Picard said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Picard’s Lawsuits  Picard sued Mark Madoff last year, claiming the son was
paid $29.3 million for his services from 2001 to 2008 and
improperly received $66.8 million for himself, his family and
entities on his behalf. Mark Madoff was also accused of
falsifying transactions to withdraw $18.1 million from his
account. He had denied any wrongdoing.  Picard has filed hundreds of suits in the past month,
seeking more than $34 billion from banks, feeder funds,
investors and others alleged to have profited from Madoff’s
decades-long Ponzi scheme, the biggest in history. So far,
Picard has recovered about $2.5 billion.  Mark Madoff graduated from the University of Michigan in
Ann Arbor in 1986, and his brother, Andrew, 44, was a graduate
of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia in 1988.  The elder Madoff son joined his father’s brokerage in 1986
and became director of listed trading, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In January of last year, public records showed Mark Madoff
had accumulated a net worth of $8.3 million working for his
father by the time he filed for divorce in 1999.  Madoff Sentencing  Bernard Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence at a
federal prison in Butner, North Carolina. At the time of his
arrest, Madoff’s account statements reflected 4,900 accounts
with $65 billion in nonexistent balances. Investors lost about
$20 billion in principal.  When Madoff was sentenced last year, the judge cited his
failure to identify accomplices, making it harder for
prosecutors to build cases against others. The receiver of his
firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, has also said
Madoff hasn’t substantially helped him, complicating efforts to
locate assets.  A spokeswoman for Preet Bharara, the U.S. attorney in
Manhattan, couldn’t be reached for comment. The U.S. attorney is
handling the continuing criminal probe of the Madoff fraud.  Mark Madoff’s suicide isn’t the first connected with the
scheme’s aftermath. Thierry Magon de La Villehuchet, chief
executive officer of Access International Advisors, which
managed $3 billion, took his own life in December 2008 after
losing funds invested with Madoff’s firm, de La Villehuchet’s
brother said in an interview at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  