-- Former President Clinton Endorses Tax Compromise at White House
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-12-12T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/bill-clinton-backs-obama-republican-compromise-on-taxes-jobless-benefits.html
Former President  Bill Clinton  sought
to use his clout with Democratic lawmakers to get President
 Barack Obama ’s tax deal with Republicans passed over the
objections of lawmakers in his own party.  “This is a good bill,” Clinton said about the compromise
agreement Obama reached with congressional Republicans to extend
tax cuts and unemployment benefits beyond this year.  Standing alongside Obama after the two men met private in
the Oval Office Dec. 10, Clinton called the deal a “significant
net plus.” Still, he said he understands the resistance from
congressional Democrats to keeping Bush-era  tax cuts  for the
wealthiest Americans and to an estate-tax provision that would
set the top rate at 35 percent after a $5 million tax-free
allowance per individual.  Clinton stood at the podium of the White House briefing
room during an unscheduled question-and-answer-session with
reporters, making clear he was enjoying the experience. After
Obama left about 10 minutes into the session, Clinton stayed on
for 20 more.  Asked whether he was happier being in the White House
giving advice rather than governing, Clinton drew laughter with
his reply.  “Oh, I had quite a good time governing,” he said. “I’m
happy to be here, I suppose, when the bullets that are fired are
unlikely to hit me.”  Taxes and Treaty  Clinton said the benefits of the 13-month extension of
unemployment aid for the long-term jobless and the one-year cut
in payroll taxes and tax breaks for small businesses have been
overlooked in Obama’s plan. He also voiced his support for the
ratification of a new arms control treaty with Russia by the end
of the year. The office of Republican Senator  Richard Lugar  of
Indiana, key to approval of the START agreement by his party,
says the Senate will have enough votes to ratify the treaty.  “I think this START agreement is very important to the
future of our national security,” Clinton said. “This is
something that is profoundly important, this ought to be way
beyond party.”  Obama, 49, invited Clinton, 64, to the White House several
weeks ago, White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  told
reporters earlier yesterday. The meeting was Obama’s first with
Clinton since last month’s congressional elections when
Democrats lost control of the House of Representatives and saw
their majority narrowed in the Senate. Clinton faced a similar
setback in the 1994 mid-term elections and went on to win a
second term as president.  Spokesman for Deal  Obama called the meeting with the former president
“terrific.” He introduced Clinton by saying that he is a good
spokesman for the deal and “given the fact that he presided
over as good an economy as we’ve seen in our lifetimes that it
might be useful for him to share some of his thoughts.”  Relations between Obama and Clinton have warmed since the
end of the 2008 Democratic presidential primary campaign, in
which Obama’s chief rival for the party’s nomination was
Clinton’s wife, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  Clinton was a prominent campaigner for his wife, and was
publicly rebuked by Obama for once accusing Obama’s campaign of
playing “the race card on me.”  Following the election, Hillary Clinton joined the Obama
administration as chief diplomat and has sought Bill Clinton’s
help on issues from North Korea to earthquake relief in Haiti.  The former president was also one of the top campaigners
for Democratic congressional candidates during last month’s mid-
term elections, though Democrats lost seats in the Senate and
their House majority.  ‘Relief for America’  “Given all of the alternatives that I have imagined
actually becoming law this is the best economic result for
America,” Clinton said. “I think it is an enormous relief for
America to think that both parties might vote for something,
anything, that they could both agree on.”  House Democrats held a nonbinding vote Thursday to prevent
the tax compromise from being voted on in the House of
Representatives unless changes are made.  The Senate will take up the estimated $857 billion proposal
next week.  Like Obama, Clinton said he opposes an extension of tax
cuts for wealthy Americans because that would “not be the most
efficient way to get the economy going again,” though their
inclusion is needed to gain the support of Senate Republicans.  Clinton called compromise an “ethical thing to do,”
though he said there are certain things that are worth fighting
for, including fighting against the repeal of the health-care
overhaul and the repeal of new financial rules.  In a final push for the tax deal, Clinton said in a divided
government “people no longer see principled compromise as
weakness.”  He said, “this system was set up to promote principled
compromise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Nicholas Johnston  in
Washington at   njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;  Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  