-- Chi-X Europe Said to Receive Offers From NYSE, Nasdaq, Bats, Direct Edge
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-12-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/chi-x-may-help-nyse-nasdaq-bats-direct-edge-compete-with-lse.html
The bidding war for Chi-X Europe
Ltd. shows the growing importance of a comprehensive European
strategy to U.S. exchange operators.  Chi-X Europe, the trading platform that said in August it
was approached about a takeover, has now received bids from the
four biggest U.S. stock-exchange companies, two people with
direct knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  NYSE Euronext ,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.,   Bats Global Markets 
and Direct Edge Holdings LLC have all submitted offers to
London-based Chi-X Europe before a deadline next week, according
to the people, who declined to be identified because the offers
are private.  As competition has intensified in the U.S., where as many
as 50 different stock venues compete for brokerage clients,
American companies are looking across the Atlantic Ocean, where
only Chi-X and Bats operate region-wide platforms. Acquiring
Chi-X would enable the buyer to compete directly with  London
Stock Exchange Group Plc  and  Deutsche Boerse AG .  “All four of them have ambitions or a footprint in Europe
that could be larger,” said Herbie Skeete, London-based
managing director of Mondo Visione Ltd., which advises
exchanges. “It’s easier and cheaper to buy Chi-X than to take
over LSE or Deutsche Boerse. It’s then an easy way to compete
head to head with the other European exchanges and London is a
global financial centre.”  Faster Trading  Chi-X Europe was the electronic market that challenged
traditional exchanges by offering lower fees and faster trading.
The bids are the next step in a process that began in August
when Chi-X Europe said it received an “enquiry” about a deal.
That approach was from  Bats , which operates the third-largest
U.S. equity market and Europe’s second-largest alternative
trading system, people familiar with the situation said at the
time.  Julia Streets , a spokeswoman for Chi-X,  Ray Pellecchia  of
NYSE Euronext,  Frank DeMaria  of Nasdaq OMX and  Stacie Fleming  of
Bats all declined to comment.  Chi-X Europe, started in 2007 to compete with LSE and
Deutsche Boerse, hired investment bank Lexicon Partners Ltd. for
advice in September, two people with knowledge of the situation
said at the time. In October,  Nasdaq  Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Greifeld  said the exchange, which runs seven Nordic and
Baltic bourses and the second-largest U.S. equity exchange, is
prepared to consider a  takeover . Chi-X sent out a memorandum
with information to potential suitors, people familiar with the
situation said Nov. 4.  Pricing, Strategy  The information pack, which didn’t contain a valuation, was
sent at the end of October, according to three people familiar
with the situation who declined to be identified as talks are
private. The memorandum contains information about Chi-X
Europe’s market share, profitability, pricing and strategy
including its interest in expanding into other asset classes
besides equities, the people said.  Chi-X Europe is partly owned by Instinet Inc., a New York-
based unit of  Nomura Holdings Inc. , and investment banks and
traders including  Credit Suisse Group AG , Getco LLC, Bank of
America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley.  Bourses such as NYSE Euronext, LSE, Deutsche Boerse and
 Nasdaq  are seeking ways to win back market share lost to new
rivals after European regulators opened the market to
competition in 2007. LSE in February completed the purchase of a
majority stake in Turquoise, another electronic platform owned
by a group of banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 