-- Dollar Rallies After U.S. Tax-Cut Agreement, Improved Outlook for Economy
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-12-11T05:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/dollar-rallies-after-u-s-tax-cut-agreement-improved-outlook-for-economy.html
The dollar rose the most since
September against the euro after an agreement to extend and
expand tax cuts fueled speculation the U.S. economy will
accelerate, driving stocks and Treasury yields higher and
boosting demand for greenback-denominated assets.  The U.S. currency strengthened against most of its major
counterparts this week as reports showed claims for jobless
benefits decreased, exports swelled to a two-year high and
consumer sentiment climbed. The euro fell against the greenback
after Ireland’s credit rating was downgraded and the region’s
political leaders differed about how to contain the debt crisis.
The Federal Reserve holds a policy meeting next week as it
continues to buy Treasuries to bolster the economy.  “A lot of the positive news we’ve seen out of the U.S. has
helped the dollar strengthen,” said  Mary Nicola , a strategist
at BNP Paribas SA in New York. “We’ve seen the 10-year yields
push up. It looks like it’s helping push the dollar up.”  The dollar rose 1.4 percent to $1.3226 per euro, from
$1.3414 Dec. 3. It touched $1.3165 per euro Dec. 9, the
strongest since Dec. 2. The U.S. currency added 1.7 percent to
83.95 yen, from 82.53 last week. The euro added 0.3 percent to
111.04 yen from 110.73.  Index Gains  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the
euro, yen and pound, gained 0.9 percent to 80.107. It rose every
day this week, the longest winning streak since the five-day
period ended Nov. 11.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 index gained 1.3 percent this
week.  The dollar has declined 1.1 percent this year in a measure
of the currencies of 10 developed nations, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The euro has
dropped 9.5 percent. The yen is up 10.8 percent.  The dollar rallied after President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 6
broke a stalemate about extending middle-class tax cuts
introduced by the administration of  George W. Bush . Obama said
he would accept lower tax rates on high earners’ income,
dividends, capital gains and multimillion dollar estates for the
next two years in exchange for extending federal unemployment
insurance and a one-year cut in payroll taxes.  Yields on  10-year Treasuries  reached 3.33 percent
yesterday, the highest since June 4.  Euro Issues  The euro has dropped 6.9 percent since Nov. 4 when the
European Central Bank President signaled plans to end emergency
stimulus. The common currency declined this week as Fitch
Ratings downgraded Ireland and after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , in talks yesterday,
said they oppose increasing the European Union’s 440 billion-
euro ($581 billion) rescue fund and rejected joint euro-area
bonds.  “The euro zone has a lot to do structurally to be able to
right the ship,” said  Carl Forcheski , a director on the
corporate currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in New
York. “It will continue to keep the euro somewhat on the
defensive.”  Fitch cut Ireland’s credit rating to BBB+ from A+, three
steps above non-investment grade, citing the mounting cost to
rescue the nation’s banking system.  ‘Structural Weaknesses’  Merkel said that there are “structural weaknesses” in the
euro region that must be addressed. Merkel held talks with
Sarkozy in Freiburg, Germany, before a Dec. 16-17 European Union
summit. The leaders of the euro-area’s two largest economies
said the continued existence of the common currency is “non-
negotiable.”  “If the euro fails, Europe fails,” Merkel said.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis took hold at the end of 2009
after a new government in Greece said the budget deficit was
twice as big as the previous administration disclosed. The
region’s nations assembled a rescue fund in May, which Greece
and Ireland have tapped.  Reports showed improvements in the U.S. economy after a
Dec. 3 report showed an unexpected jump in the unemployment rate
to 9.8 percent.  The U.S. trade deficit narrowed 13 percent to $38.7
billion, less than the lowest estimate of 78 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News and the smallest since January, Commerce
Department figures showed yesterday.  Economic Output  “That’s very good news for the U.S. economy and for the
dollar, if it’s sustained,” said  Greg Anderson , a currency
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “If U.S. yields hold
where they’ve moved to this week, then the dollar ought to
rally.”  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of  consumer sentiment  rose in December to 74.2, the
highest since June, from 71.6 at the end of last month.  The Australian dollar fell this week on concern Chinese
 inflation  data tomorrow will back the case for the China to
tighten monetary policy. Australia’s currency dropped 0.8
percent to 98.53 U.S. cents, from 99.31 cents Dec. 3.  The People’s Bank of China increased reserve requirements
by 50 basis points starting Dec. 20, the central bank said on
its website today. It’s the third increase in five weeks.  “The danger is China raises interest rates steeply,
causing a hard landing for the Chinese economy, which would
obviously hurt Australia’s exports,” said  Derek Mumford , a
Sydney-based director at Richford Capital, a foreign-exchange
and rates risk management firm.  Fed policy makers will leave the benchmark interest rate
unchanged at a range of zero to 0.25 percent, according to all
84 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. The central bank will meet
Dec. 14.  The Fed yesterday announced plans to buy $105 billion of
Treasuries in 18 rounds starting Dec. 13 and ending Jan. 11. The
central bank said following its Nov. 2-3 policy meeting it would
buy an additional $600 billion in U.S. government debt through
June to sustain the economic recovery and prevent deflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  