-- Heisman Trophy Favorite Newton Likely to Beat Quarterback Jinx as NFL Star
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-11T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/heisman-trophy-favorite-newton-likely-to-beat-quarterback-jinx-as-nfl-star.html
Cam Newton ’s record-setting season
at Auburn University has stamped the junior quarterback as the
 Heisman Trophy  favorite. It’s also grabbed the attention of
National Football League teams.  Newton has accounted for 49 touchdowns in leading Auburn to
a 13-0 record and may become the school’s third recipient of
college football’s top individual prize when the vote results
are announced tonight in New York. In his first year as a major-
college starter, he wasn’t even on Sporting News magazine’s list
of  top contenders  for the honor until October.  While only two of the eight quarterbacks to receive the
Heisman since 2000 currently have starting jobs in the NFL,
former scouts say Newton is more likely to follow the path of
 Carson Palmer , a two-time Pro Bowl pick, than  Eric Crouch , who
never played a regular-season NFL game and is out of football
after stops in Canada and Europe.  “He’s got every quality you’re looking for in a franchise-
type quarterback,” said Dave Razzano, who has been a part of
three Super Bowl-winning teams during 22 years as a scout in San
Francisco, St. Louis and Arizona. “He seems like he plays with
a lot of poise, especially in clutch situations.”  Newton, 21, is a 1-3 favorite to win the Heisman Trophy,
according to Antigua-based Internet sports book  Bodog.com ,
meaning a winning $100 bet would only yield a $33 profit.
University of Oregon running back LaMichael James is the second
betting choice at 3-2, followed by Stanford University
quarterback Andrew Luck at 7-4.  Not Automatic  Winning the trophy hasn’t automatically meant NFL success
for quarterbacks. Since 1980, Palmer of the Cincinnati Bengals
is one of three Heisman-winning quarterbacks to make a Pro Bowl
appearance. The last recipient to quarterback an NFL team to a
Super Bowl victory was Jim Plunkett, who picked up the award 40
years ago at Stanford and two NFL championships with the Oakland
Raiders’ franchise.  Crouch,  Gino Torretta ,  Charlie Ward ,  Danny Wuerffel ,  Chris Weinke  and Jason White are among the Heisman winners who failed
to make it in the NFL.  Palmer and  Sam Bradford  (2008) of the St. Louis Rams are
the only Heisman-winning quarterbacks to currently hold starting
jobs in the NFL.  Troy Smith , the 2006 winner at Ohio State,
started five games this season in San Francisco before being
replaced this week by  Alex Smith .  Eddie George , who received the honor in 1995 as a running
back for Ohio State, says the 6-foot-6, 250-pound Newton has the
size, speed, arm strength and intelligence needed to succeed in
the NFL.  Things to Learn  “He has to work on a couple things in the pocket, like
coming from under center, handing the ball off and playing in a
traditional pro-set offensive philosophy,” said George, 37, an
analyst for Rivals.com, a college sports recruiting website.
“What I like best is his leadership abilities, his ability to
play under duress and distractions. That’s what the NFL is all
about.”  Newton led Auburn to the national championship game while
facing off-field distractions including a probe into a pay-for-
play demand organized by his father and allegations of cheating
while he was at the University of Florida.  Newton was a backup at Florida for two years and then won a
junior college title at Blinn College in Texas before
transferring to Auburn.  “He has that ‘It’ factor going for him,” said ESPN draft
analyst  Mel Kiper , who lists Newton as the eighth-best college
prospect this year and the No. 3 quarterback behind Luck and the
University of Arkansas’s Ryan Mallett.  Scout’s Take  Although Kiper says Newton is “fine mechanically,” former
Cleveland Browns scout Russ Lande is among those who think the
6-foot-6, 250 pound quarterback needs work as a passer. Newton
completed 67 percent of his throws for 2,589 yards and 28
touchdowns while throwing six interceptions.  “I said the same thing about (Tim) Tebow and  Vince Young ,” Lande, the president and founder of the NFL scouting
information website GMJR.com, said by telephone. “They’re great
talents, no question, but it’s a developmental job.”  Tebow, who won the Heisman at Florida in 2007, is a backup
for the Denver Broncos after being taken in the first round of
this year’s draft. Young, a Heisman runner-up at the University
of Texas in 2005, lost his starting job with the Tennessee
Titans after a hand injury and confrontation with coach  Jeff Fisher .  “He’s better than those guys playing the same kind of
offense,” said Lande. “The guy who he’s not being compared
enough to is (Pittsburgh’s)  Ben Roethlisberger  in terms of size,
strength and a guy who could just stand there in the pocket, get
pounded on, pull free from sacks and make plays. That’s what’s
so intriguing about this kid, but he’s still a ways away as a
passer.”  Running Threat  Newton also can run, leading Auburn with 1,580 rushing
yards and a school-record 20 touchdowns on the ground.  Michael Vick  has had success this season as a dual-threat quarterback in
Philadelphia, where he’s the NFL’s second-rated passer with 15
touchdowns and two interceptions while rushing for 467 yards and
six scores.  “The running is kind of a bonus and at the NFL level that
won’t be (Newton’s) forte because it’s too risky to run the ball
all the time,” Razzano said in a telephone interview. “He can
make all the throws, he’s good in the clutch and he’s poised
when there’s a pass rush in his face. A talent like that, you
put him on the field and he’ll win games for you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  