-- Michigan Tops Michigan State 5-0 in Front of Record Outdoor Hockey Crowd
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2010-12-11T23:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/michigan-tops-michigan-state-5-0-in-front-of-record-outdoor-hockey-crowd.html
Jon Merrill and Carl Hagelin scored
two goals each for the  University of Michigan  as the Wolverines
defeated the  Michigan State University  Spartans 5-0 in front of
113,411, the largest crowd to attend an ice hockey game.  The game, called the  “Big Chill at the Big House,”  was
played at  Michigan Stadium  in Ann Arbor, which usually is home
to the Wolverines’ football team.  It was a rematch of a 2001 meeting between the  Central
Collegiate Hockey Association  rivals, a 3-3 tie in front of
74,544 at Michigan State’s  Spartan Stadium , which set the record
for the largest crowd at a hockey game at the time.  That mark was broken this year when the opening game of the
 International Ice Hockey Federation  World Championships was
played in front of 77,803 in Germany’s  Veltins Arena , a
retractable-roof soccer stadium.  The rink for today’s game was  constructed  atop a football
field and has been in use since Dec. 4, when Adrian College of
Michigan beat Concordia University of Wisconsin 3-0 in a
National Collegiate Athletic Association Division III matchup.
The rink also hosted  high school games  and will be used for
 public skating  tomorrow.  The National Hockey League staged an outdoor game between
the Edmonton Oilers and the Montreal Canadiens in sub-zero
temperatures in Alberta, Canada, in 2003, and has staged a
 Winter Classic  outdoor game since 2008.  Chicago’s Wrigley Field and Boston’s  Fenway Park , the
U.S.’s two oldest baseball stadiums, have hosted the game. This
year’s Winter Classic between the Pittsburgh Penguins and
Washington Capitals will be played at  Heinz Field , home of the
National Football League’s Pittsburgh Steelers, on New Year’s
Day. The Canadiens and the Calgary Flames also are scheduled for
an outdoor game in Calgary on Feb. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Buteau  in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  