-- Israel's Barak Says Border, Refugee Issues Critical to Mideast Peace Talks
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2010-12-12T17:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/israel-s-ehud-barak-says-real-issues-critical-to-peace-talks.html
Israelis and Palestinians have an
opportunity to address “real issues” including borders and the
fate of Palestinian refugees by moving forward with peace
negotiations, Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said.  “I think that the real issue is to be ready mentally and
psychologically and politically on both sides to take the hard
decisions to come to the table and start to negotiate,” Barak,
68, said in an interview on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS,”
scheduled to air today.  The U.S. has been trying to persuade Israel and Palestinian
Authority leaders to resume peace talks that stalled in
September. Israelis and Palestinians must “stop demonizing each
other,” and make “real progress” in the next few months,
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said Dec. 10 in a speech to
Palestinian and Israeli officials including Barak.  Clinton, speaking in Washington, expressed “deep
frustration” that peace talks haven’t gone further and faster.
U.S. special envoy  George Mitchell  was scheduled to return to
the region today.  Borders, Security  Palestinian Authority  Prime Minister Salam Fayyad  said
Israel should end its occupation of Palestine even as he
welcomed proposals by the U.S. to address core issues of borders
and security in the Middle East conflict.  “There is no reason why we should not by now have begun to
see evidence of the occupation begun to be rolled back,”
Fayyad, 58, said in Washington during an interview on ABC’s
“This Week” program broadcast today.  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built during the past decade. The
United Nations says the settlements are illegal, and the
International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach the
Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, in which Israel prevailed, and
therefore isn’t occupied.
isn’t occupied.  Israel’s Interests  There are some proposals that “can represent the interests
of Israel and there are some that may be are going to be
problematic, but it needs to be judged in the future,”  Tzipi Livni , leader of Israel’s opposition Kadima party, said on the
ABC program, where she was interviewed along with Fayyad.  In bringing the two sides together in September, President
 Barack Obama  and Clinton said they aimed for a peace settlement
within a year. Clinton’s speech last week made no reference to
that goal.  Resumption of serious negotiations would require both sides
to “talk about the real issues, about borders, security,
refugees, Jerusalem, end of conflict and finality of future
claims” to resume serious negotiation,” Barak said in the CNN
interview. “And I feel that the opportunity is here.”  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  agreed in early September to
try to reach an agreement on the framework for a comprehensive
peace accord within a year. The talks collapsed less than a
month later, when a 10-month Israeli moratorium on West Bank
settlement construction expired.  Abbas has said he won’t continue the dialogue unless
settlement-building is halted in east Jerusalem, which
Palestinians want as a capital of an independent state.  F-35s  After weeks of diplomacy aimed at persuading Israel to
renew a freeze on settlement-building, the U.S. last week
retracted its offer to give Israel 20 additional F-35 fighter
jets in return for a 90-day moratorium on construction in the
West Bank.  “I tried to help it come to life, and I would love to see
it implemented and carried out,” Barak said of the fighter-jet
proposal. “And I don’t see it as a bribery.”  The Obama administration’s offer reflected “a genuine
sentiment within the American people” to help Israel “keep its
qualitative military edge,” he said. “Israel takes upon itself
much more security risks than usual. And America can come to our
help.”  Barak said Saudi Arabia and other Arab countries are
“deeply worried” about the threat posed by Iran’s nuclear
program.  Confidential U.S. diplomatic cables that the WikiLeaks
website began publishing last month “exposed how realistic
leaders all around the wider Middle East are” about the risk
that Iran could become “the ultimate sponsor of world terror”
if it achieves nuclear weapons capability, Barak said on CNN.  Asked whether Israel would authorize an attack on Iran if
sanctions fail, Barak said Israel has a “right of self-
defense” and didn’t rule out that possibility.  “I think that it’s still in the stage of diplomacy,” he
said. “I still believe that much more active sanctions can
cause the Iranian regime to have a second thought. But as I’ve
said earlier, we recommend to you and to the Europeans not to
remove any option from the table and we mean it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Meera  Louis in Washington at 
 Mlouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  