-- Obama Says Tax Cut Compromise `Good Deal' for Americans, Will Boost Growth
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-12-11T11:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/obama-calls-compromise-on-tax-cuts-a-good-deal-for-americans.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  urged
Congress to approve an agreement to temporarily extend tax cuts
due to expire at the end of the year to ensure the economic
recovery stays on track.  In his  weekly address  on the radio and the Internet, Obama
said that failing to extend the tax cuts could cost the nation
“well over a million jobs” and families around the nation
would see their taxes increase on Jan. 1.  “If Congress doesn’t act, tax rates will automatically go
up for just about everyone in our country,” he said. “That’s
unacceptable to me.”  Congressional Democrats are registering objections to
keeping tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans and to an estate-
tax provision that would set the top rate at 35 percent after a
$5 million tax-free allowance per individual.  The measure also includes a 13-month extension of
unemployment aid for the long-term jobless, a cut of 2
percentage points in payroll taxes for 2011 and tax breaks for
small businesses that were part of Obama’s economic package.  Obama said the proposal is “by no means perfect” because
it includes provisions that both Republicans and Democrats
dislike. Obama said he opposes an extension of tax cuts for the
wealthy.  “But this is a good deal for the American people,” he
said. “The vast majority of the tax cuts in this plan will help
the middle class.”  Obama said that Congress will have to revisit the issue of
taxes on the wealthy when it takes steps to tackle the nation’s
budget deficit, but he had to compromise on the issue now to
make sure taxes didn’t rise for middle-income taxpayers.  “I will not allow middle-class families to be treated like
pawns on a chessboard,” he said.  Republican Address  In the Republican  address , Representative-elect  Kristi Noem 
of South Dakota said Congress needs to do more than just approve
the tax compromise to encourage economic growth.  Noem said that extending tax cuts that were due to expire
at the end of the year is “a good first step,” and next
lawmakers should focus on cutting government spending and
repealing Obama’s health-care law.  Those two steps, Noem said, would help “eliminate the job-
killing uncertainty hanging over our employers and
entrepreneurs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  