-- Holbrooke Undergoes 7 More Hours of Heart Surgery
-- B y   I n d i r a   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-12-13T03:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/holbrooke-in-critical-condition-after-surgery-to-repair-tear-in-his-aorta.html
Richard Holbrooke , the U.S. special
envoy for Afghanistan and Pakistan, underwent more surgery 
today after a 20-hour operation that ended yesterday, the State
Department said.  Today’s seven-hour procedure was necessary after surgery to
repair a tear in his aorta was slowed by the failure of his
blood to clot, said family friends who spoke on condition of
anonymity. Holbrooke’s family “is grateful for the outpouring of
support and prayers coming in from his many friends, colleagues
and leaders around the world,” State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said in an e-mailed statement.  Holbrooke isn’t out of danger and prospects for recovery
may not be clear for several days, the friends said. He was
admitted to George Washington University Hospital on Dec. 10
suffering from an “aortic bleed,” White House adviser  David Axelrod  told CNN’s “State of the Union” program today.  The diplomat is “fighting through it,” and is “tough and
resilient,” Axelrod said.  Holbrooke, 69, has spent the last two years traveling to
Afghanistan and Pakistan, and seeking support from allies to
help promote economic development and stabilize the neighboring
countries that have been plagued by terrorism.  The envoy fell ill Dec. 10 while working on the seventh
floor of the State Department headquarters, where Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton ’s office is located.  Afghan Assessment  Over the last several months, Holbrooke has been preparing
a report for President  Barack Obama  on the state of governance
and development in Afghanistan. The U.S. and its allies have a
combined force of about 150,000 troops trying to turn back
Taliban advances and train Afghan soldiers and police.  Obama’s national security advisers met at the White House
yesterday to discuss the internal assessment of the Afghan war,
White House spokesman  Tommy Vietor  said in an e-mail today.  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  wished Holbrooke “a speedy
recovery” in a letter that also said “I regretted hearing the
news that you had a heart attack, but after receiving the news
that your surgery went well, I was relieved,” according to a
statement. Karzai and Pakistani President  Asif Ali Zardari 
called Holbrooke’s wife Kati Morton today, Crowley said.  The White House released a statement yesterday from Obama
saying the president had spoken with Holbrooke’s wife and that
Clinton and Admiral  Mike Mullen , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, had been with him at the hospital.  ‘A Towering Figure’  “Richard Holbrooke is a towering figure in American
foreign policy, a critical member of my Afghanistan and Pakistan
team, and a tireless public servant who has won the admiration
of the American people and people around the world,” Obama said.  Holbrooke is a veteran diplomat who, as an assistant
secretary of state under President  Bill Clinton , was the chief
architect of the 1995 Dayton accords that ended the war in
Bosnia. He later served as the U.S. envoy to the United Nations.  He was a diplomat in President  Jimmy Carter ’s
administration and was in charge of U.S. relations with China
when the U.S. normalized ties in December 1978.  “We continue to pray for his recovery, and support his
family in this difficult time,” Obama said.  The aorta is a major blood vessel about the width of a
garden hose that runs from the heart through the chest and
abdomen, according to the Mayo Clinic Web site. While surgical
repair of a tear in the internal wall is possible, serious
complications can arise from interruptions in blood flow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Indira Lakshmanan  in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net 
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  