-- Obama Plans Meeting With CEOs Next Week for Discussion on Economic Issues
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-12-11T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/president-obama-to-meet-with-group-of-ceos-next-week-on-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  plans to
extend his outreach to the business community by convening a
meeting in Washington with about 20 chief executives,
senior adviser  Valerie Jarrett  said.  The executives from companies in a range of industries are
being invited to discuss topics including education,  exports ,
regulation and the  budget deficit , Jarrett, who is the White
House liaison to the business community, said. She declined to
name the executives who are being invited.  “We want to tap into expertise and interest among other
business leaders so we can have an ongoing dialogue generally
about the business climate, but also more specifically about how
to tackle the challenges that we have before us in order to
create robust recovery,” Jarrett said in an interview.  Obama has been seeking to rebuild relationships with the
U.S. business community in response to criticism from some
executives and business groups, such as the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, of the administration’s overhaul of the health-care
system and financial regulations. The administration is seeking
support for Obama’s economic agenda over the next two years,
when the president will face a Republican majority in the House
and a smaller Democratic majority in the Senate.  Since his party’s losses in last month’s midterm elections
Obama has held meetings with current and former top executives
including  Michael Duke , chief executive officer of Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.,  Alan Lafley , a former CEO of Procter & Gamble Co.,
and  Steven Reinemund , former chairman and CEO of PepsiCo Inc.
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEO  Jamie Dimon .  ‘Broad Representation’  The group “will be a broad representation from technology
to energy to finance to manufacturing,” she said. The
executives will come from a “cross section of industries in
order to get a diverse range of ideas.”  Obama has won praise from some business leaders in recent
weeks following his announcement on an agreement to move forward
on a free trade deal with South Korea and a compromise with
Republicans to extend tax cuts that are expiring at the end of
the year.  “The president has shown a willingness to learn,”  Ivan Seidenberg , CEO of Verizon Communications Inc. chairman of the
Business Roundtable and a prior critic, said Dec. 8 at a news
conference in Washington.  The U.S. economy is still struggling to recover from the
worst recession since the Great Depression. The gross domestic
product expanded at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, half the pace in the last three months of 2009.  The jobless rate rose to 9.8 percent in November even as
other statistics showed the economy picking up steam. Sales at
retailers rose by the most in eight months in November while
manufacturing kept expanding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  