-- No Need for OPEC Production Increase at Meeting, Saudi Oil Minister Says
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2010-12-11T13:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/saudi-arabian-oil-minister-al-naimi-says-no-need-for-opec-output-increase.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al- Naimi  said there is no need for an oil production increase at
today’s meeting of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries.  OPEC, which supplies about 40 percent of the world’s oil,
hasn’t changed quotas since late 2008, when it announced the
biggest-ever reduction in output as global demand collapsed.  Crude oil rose 3.3 percent last month on the New York
Mercantile Exchange and exceeded $90 a barrel on Dec. 7 for the
first time in more than two years.  “You guys really worry too much about prices,” al-Naimi
told reporters yesterday afternoon as he arrived in Quito,
Ecuador, for the producer group’s meeting. “They go up, they go
down. What’s new?” Asked if there’d be a production increase,
he replied, “absolutely not.”  Oil may reach $100 a barrel next year as demand from Europe
and the U.S. picks up, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst  Jeffrey Currie  said last month. Global oil supply reached 88.1 million
barrels a day last month, its highest ever level, and world
demand is forecast to expand 1.5 percent next year to 88.8
million barrels a day, which will also be a record, the
International Energy Agency said yesterday in a monthly report.  “Demand is up, supply is up,” said al-Naimi, whose
country is OPEC’s biggest producer. Asked if $100 a barrel for
oil would be acceptable to producers and consumers, he said,
“What else do you have?”  Weak Dollar  Angolan Oil Minister  Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos  said
earlier in the day yesterday that there’s no reason for OPEC to
change production. The 11 members with quotas pumped 26.7
million barrels a day last month, exceeding the official ceiling
by 1.86 million barrels a day, or 7.5 percent, according to a
Bloomberg  survey  of producers and analysts.  “The situation is stable right now,” and oil at $90 makes
up for a weak dollar, the Angolan minister said.  Crude oil for January delivery declined 58 cents to $87.79
a barrel yesterday on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the
lowest settlement since Dec. 1. Futures dropped 1.6 percent this
week and are up 24 percent from a year ago.  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the currency against those
of six major U.S. trading partners, dropped more than 9 percent
since early June. The Energy Department in Washington forecasts
OPEC’s net oil export revenue will be $750 billion this year.  The 12 members of OPEC are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran,
Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United
Arab Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is exempt from the quota
system.  Four members, Kuwait, Qatar, Nigeria and Iraq, did not send
their ministers to Quito and will be represented by senior
officials instead.  Today’s OPEC meeting is  scheduled  to start with an opening
address by Ecuadorean President  Rafael Correa  and the country’s
oil minister,  Wilson Pastor , who is also the president of OPEC,
at 9 a.m. local time, 2 p.m. London time, followed by a
closed-door session two hours later. A press conference is
scheduled for about 4:30 p.m. local time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Quito at  mhabiby@bloomberg.net ;
 Fred Pals  in Quito at   fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  