-- Saudi Shares End Little Changed as Investors Seek Clarity on China Growth
-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 2010-12-11T14:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/saudi-shares-rise-to-one-month-high-on-oil-minister-remarks.html
Saudi Arabian shares pared gains as
concern that China may raise interest rates undermined
petrochemical stocks.  The 146-stock  Tadawul All Share Index  closed little changed
at 6,455.99, the lowest since Dec. 7, at 3:30 p.m. in Riyadh.
About 148 million shares changed hands, 15 percent less than the
three-month daily average and the lowest since Nov. 10.  “Investors are feeling good about oil, with seemingly no
desire by OPEC and Saudis to raise output levels,” said  Amro Halwani , a trader at Shuaa Capital PSC in Riyadh. Still,
“investors will remain hesitant to place larger bets on
petrochemical stocks until they see the extent of China’s
monetary tightening.”  Crude oil rose 3.3 percent last month on the New York
Mercantile Exchange and exceeded $90 a barrel on Dec. 7 for the
first time in more than two years. Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-
Naimi said in Ecuador yesterday there is no need for an oil
production increase at a meeting today of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries. Saudi Arabia holds one-fifth of
the world’s proven oil reserves.  Chinese policy makers meeting in Beijing over the weekend
may raise rates to slow inflation in the world’s fastest-growing
major economy.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. , the largest petrochemical
maker, was unchanged at 105 riyals.  Sahara Petrochemical Co. 
trimmed early gains, ending up 1 percent to 24.10 riyals.  Mixed Bag  “The market is offering a mixed bag, with cement companies
declining as they await an update on a requested loosening of
export regulations,” said  Fuad Aghabi , investment director at
Ajeej Capital in Riyadh. “Banks continue to pressure the index
as traders await news on fourth-quarter provisions in line with
recent central bank guidelines.”  Saudi Cement Co.  dropped 2 percent, the most since June 29,
to 49 riyals, while  Al Rajhi Bank , the kingdom’s largest
publicly-traded lender by market value, retreated 0.3 percent,
the most since Dec. 6, to 77.75 riyals.  “Oil is likely to remain in its current trading range,
with China being the only stimulant, that is implying more
downside potential for petrochemicals,” Halwani said.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  