-- Socrates Says Portugal Does Not Need IMF Aid, Diario de Noticias Reports
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-12-11T10:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/socrates-says-portugal-does-not-need-imf-aid-noticias-reports.html
Portugal does not need aid from the
International Monetary Fund and no country has ever put pressure
on Portugal to request aid, Portuguese Prime Minister Jose Socrates  said in an interview with Diario de Noticias.  “There is no reason for the IMF to enter Portugal, because
Portugal does not need that,” Socrates said, according to the
daily Portuguese newspaper. “The government does not need that,
we know exactly what to do and we do not need someone to come
and tell us what we should do,” Socrates said in the interview.  “Our problem is just a budgetary problem that we have to
correct, just as other countries have,” Socrates told Diario de
Noticias. “Whoever doesn’t understand that what we are living
through is a systemic matter, which concerns the euro, has
understood nothing of this crisis,” he said, according to the
newspaper.  “If someone thinks that this is a problem of this country
or that, he is not seeing how the sovereign debt crisis is
affecting the euro,” Socrates told the newspaper. “This is a
problem of all European countries and I think we should do
what’s possible to fight it jointly: all the European
institutions, the Commission, which has played its role, the
European Central Bank, which has played its role, and each of
the countries, which are playing their role.”  The European project is going through “a very big
challenge,” which is the defense of the single currency,
Socrates told Diario de Noticias. All European leaders will be
committed to defending their currency, Socrates said. “The way
we have to defend it is by meeting our budget targets, that’s
what we are doing,” he said, according to the newspaper.  Portugal this year will meet its goal for a budget deficit
of 7.3 percent of gross domestic product, Diario de Noticias
cited Socrates as saying. Markets will “slowly” understand
that Portugal is doing what it should do for its budget
consolidation, the prime minister said in the interview.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joao Lima at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net  