-- Southern Sudan Independence Referendum Delay Is Unnecessary, Itto Says
-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 2010-12-11T13:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/southern-sudan-independence-referendum-delay-is-unnecessary-itto-says.html
Voting in the January referendum on
independence in southern Sudan can go ahead without delay now
that a U.K. company started printing ballot papers, said Anne
Itto, deputy secretary general of the Sudan People’s Liberation
Movement.  The contract for printing the papers was awarded to Tall
Security Print Ltd. on Dec. 5 and the company agreed to complete
the printing within 15 days. The ballots should be ready for
distribution across Southern Sudan, in parts of the north and
eight foreign countries before the end of the month, Itto told
reporters in the southern capital, Juba.  Itto left open the possibility of extending the seven-day
voting period on technical grounds.  “For me the most important thing is it starts on the 9th
of January,” Itto said. “If many people have not voted, it
will be the decision of the commission to either extend by a few
days or not.”  Southerners are scheduled to vote on Jan. 9 on whether to
remain united with Northern Sudan or form an independent
country.  The vote is the centerpiece of a 2005 peace deal that
ended a 21-year civil war between the Muslim north and Christian
and animist south.  There are concerns that any delay of the
plebiscite may lead to renewed violence.  On Wednesday, the chairman of the body organizing the
referendum, Mohamed Ibrahim Khalil, requested a short delay,
citing the tight schedule.  The deadline for registration was originally Dec. 1,
followed by a period of objections to names on the list. It was
extended to Dec. 8.  The final list of voters is due on Jan. 8.  Itto said the ruling party’s southern sector will be
campaigning in support of separation, the first time the SPLM
has officially announced its support fpt southern independence.  “Since unity has not been made attractive, we are
promoting what our people choose because we are following the
people,” said Itto.  The majority of Southern Sudanese favor independence,
according to an Oct. 20 study by the Washington-based National
Democratic Institute, based on 63 focus groups surveyed in 48
locations from Feb. 5 to March 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 