-- Sudan Army Attacks Rebels in Darfur Region, UN Peacekeeping Mission Says
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-12-11T16:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/sudan-army-attacks-rebels-in-darfur-region-un-says.html
Sudan’s army attacked a rebel
faction yesterday and today in the western region of Darfur,
killing one civilian and injuring others, the joint United
Nations and African Union peacekeeping mission said.  The ground attack took place in the village of Khor Abeche
in the state of South Darfur, Chris Cycmanick, a spokesman for
the mission known as UNAMID, said today by telephone.  The army, using machine guns and rifles, attacked a faction
of the Sudan Liberation Army led by Minni Minawi, the only rebel
group to have signed a peace agreement with the Sudanese
government in 2006.  “Sudan’s army burned down several houses,” Cycmanick
said. “It’s not clear whether the armed forces indiscriminately
attacked civilians in the village or they knew who they were
going after.”  Five civilians were injured today, and as many as three are
in critical condition, Cycmanick said. One civilian was killed
and sixteen were injured yesterday, he said.  The  mission  is looking for ways to evacuate the most
injured civilians, according to Cycmanick.  Al-Sawarmi Khaled, a Sudanese army spokesman, said he could
not confirm the attacks in a telephone interview from Khartoum,
Sudan’s capital.  ‘Ready for War’  On Dec. 9, Khaled said the army had attacked Minawi forces
and accused them of getting assistance from the Sudan People’s
Liberation Movement, the former rebel group which now governs
the semi-autonomous region of Southern Sudan.  The same day, Minawi told the Qatar-based  Al Jazeera  news
channel that he was ready to resume talks with the Sudanese
government, though he was also “ready for war.”  The head of the peacekeeping mission,  Ibrahim Gambari , is
going to hold talks with the Sudanese government to discuss the
attacks, Cycmanick said.  In an e-mailed statement today, Gambari expressed concern
and called “on all parties to refrain from hostilities and
respect their obligations under international humanitarian law
to safeguard innocent civilians.”  Sudan’s army has been  fighting rebels in Darfur  since 2003,
when insurgents took up arms, accusing the government of
neglecting the region. The conflict has led to the death of as
many as 300,000 people, mainly due to illness and starvation,
and forced about 2.7 million to flee their homes, according to
UN estimates. The Sudanese government has put the death toll at
about 10,000.  The  International Criminal Court  has issued arrest warrants
for Sudanese President  Umar al-Bashir , accusing him of
responsibility for genocide and war crimes in Darfur. He denies
the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 