-- U.S. Wants `Real' Progress on Key Middle East Peace Issues, Clinton Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-12-11T01:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/u-s-wants-real-progress-on-key-middle-east-peace-issues-clinton-says.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called on Israelis and Palestinians to resume
negotiations with a focus on their core disagreements with the
aim of “real progress in the next few months.”  “It is time to grapple with the core issues of this
conflict on borders and security, settlements, water and
refugees, and on Jerusalem itself,” said Clinton, who
acknowledged “deep frustrations” with the talks’ progress.
Clinton, speaking in Washington, said the U.S. would “deepen”
its commitment to helping the Palestinian Authority build a
state and urged Arab countries to become more involved.  The top U.S. diplomat warned the two sides that they
couldn’t wait out their conflict and had to stop “demonizing”
each other. As Israelis and Palestinians enter this phase of
talks, Clinton said the U.S. would offer proposals to bridge
differences between the two groups “when appropriate.”  Clinton made her first public remarks on the Middle East
peace process since the administration decided three days ago to
stop pressuring Israel to renew a moratorium on West Bank
settlement construction. Palestinians refused to return to talks
without an extension of the freeze, which expired in September.
Talks have been stalled since then.  Clinton spoke at a conference organized by the  Brookings
Institute ’s Saban Center for Middle East Policy. The audience
included Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak , Palestinian
Authority Prime Minister  Salam Fayyad  and  Tony Blair , the Middle
East envoy for the Quartet, which is comprised of the U.S., the
United Nations, Russia and the European Union.  Core Issues  Clinton said she had already begun to work on core issues
in meetings with Palestinian and Israeli officials, including
Fayyad and Barak, yesterday and today. She consulted with
Palestinian negotiator  Saeb Erakat  today. Yesterday, she met
with chief Israeli negotiator Yitzhak Molho.  In bringing the two sides together in September, President
 Barack Obama  and Clinton said they aimed for a peace settlement
within a year, a goal that State Department Spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said still holds.  “It is still intent to achieve a framework agreement on
the core issues within a year,” Crowley said today. “We
understand that we have to build confidence; that each side
continues to question whether it has a partner with which it can
make progress and ultimately achieve agreement.”  Working on the core issues will build that confidence and
momentum, Crowley said.  Regional Tension  Failure to achieve an agreement threatens Israel, Clinton
said. The tension between Israelis and Palestinians is a source
of regional unrest and poses a threat to Israel’s future as a
democratic state, as the Arab birth rate outpaces that of Jews.  With military technology evolving, ensuring Israel’s
security will only grow more difficult, Clinton said. An
agreement between Israelis and Palestinians would make it easier
to reach a comprehensive regional peace, she said.  “The United States looks at these trends,” Clinton said,
“and we conclude without a shadow of a doubt that ending this
conflict once and for all and achieving a comprehensive regional
peace is imperative for safeguarding Israel’s future.”  Clinton said the two sides must agree on a “single line
drawn on a map that divides Israel from Palestine” and to
permanent Palestinian borders with Israel, Jordan and Egypt.  Return of Refugees  She was less definitive on the issue of Palestinian
refugees who want to return to homes they left in what is now
Israel. The “difficult and emotional” issue needs a “just and
permanent solution that meets the needs of both sides,” Clinton
said.  Clinton said Israel settlements are “corrosive, not only
to peace efforts and the two-state solution, but to Israel’s
future itself.” The U.S. doesn’t accept the legitimacy of
continued settlement activity, Clinton said.  On Jerusalem, which Jews and Arabs claim as a capital,
Clinton urged the two sides to agree on an outcome that
“safeguards its status for people around the world.”  Direct talks between Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and the Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas 
collapsed in September after less than a month when a 10-month
Israeli moratorium on settlement construction expired.  After weeks of diplomacy aimed at persuading Israel to
renew a freeze on settlement-building, the U.S. retracted its
offer to give Israel 20 additional F-35 fighter jets in return
for a 90-day moratorium on construction in the West Bank.  Clinton is sending envoy  George Mitchell  back to the region
on Dec. 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 