-- UN Climate Conference Discusses Agreement Covering Aid, Temperature Limit
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-12-11T06:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/un-climate-talks-close-in-pact-covering-aid-pushing-aside-rift-on-kyoto.html
Envoys at United Nations global
warming talks are closing in on an agreement to protect forests,
stimulate aid to developing nations and establish a body to
advise countries on adapting to higher temperatures.  The proposed package, which must win the backing of
delegates from 193 nations before the meeting ends in Cancun,
Mexico, requires richer countries and poorer ones to set aside
differences about how to limit greenhouse gas emissions.  “Brazil fully supports the document,” said  Izabella Teixeira , the environment minister of Brazil, which was tapped
by the UN to help find a compromise. “Let’s adopt it.”  A UN document suggesting conclusions pushed until next year
debate on how to reduce fossil fuel emissions once the current
restrictions in the Kyoto Protocol expire in 2012. While Bolivia
said it objected to “many” parts of the text, observers at the
talks said the compromises outlined may well stick.  “They seem to have solved the Kyoto conundrum,” said Tim
Gore, policy adviser for Oxfam. “They seem to have a system
which will give enough confidence to developing countries that
the Kyoto Protocol will move ahead.”  Bolivia, which along with six other countries blocked last
year’s accord in Copenhagen, said it wanted delegates to
negotiate on its demands for an international court to police
emissions cuts and about the rights of indigenous peoples.  “We won’t be blackmailed,” Pablo Solon, Bolivia’s envoy at
the talks, said at a briefing. “We won’t give up to ‘take it or
take it’ conditions.”  Elements of Plan  The deals suggested in a draft UN text include:  -- A “Green Climate Fund” that would manage a
“significant share” of the $100 billion pledged last year in
climate aid from richer to poorer nations. The World Bank was
invited to manage the fund.  -- A technology mechanism would be set up to help
developing nations tap low-carbon products such as wind
turbines, solar panels, and energy-saving devices. Further
market mechanisms will be debated at next year’s conference in
Durban, South Africa.  -- A forest protection program known as Reducing Emissions
from Deforestation and Forest Degradation, or REDD. It would
fund forestry projects for developing nations. A mention of the
programs tapping carbon markets was dropped from the UN draft
text.  Adaptation Program  -- A “Cancun Adaptation Framework” which would help
assess the needs of the most vulnerable nations to adapt to the
effects of higher temperatures such as rising sea levels,
increased droughts and melting glaciers.  -- A package of details on how to monitor, report and
verify emissions reductions by developed countries and climate
protection actions taken by poorer ones, or MRV in UN jargon.  “These drafts represent real and very substantive
progress,”  Patricia Espinosa , the Mexican foreign secretary who
is leading the talks, told delegates who gave her a standing
ovation for her efforts. “Every view has been taken into
account. Each of you will have to live with the consequences of
our choices and of our actions.”  The text did not outline tighter emission targets from any
nation, referring instead to figures that will be published
later covering cuts from industrial and developing nations.  Kyoto Outlook  The lack of an extension or a replacement for the 1997
Kyoto Protocol may boost the cost of fighting climate change,
said David Hone, chairman of the International Emissions Trading
Association, a Geneva-based lobby group,  “If there is no international cohesiveness, it makes it
more difficult for a responsive market-based approach to
develop,” said Hone, also Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s climate
adviser. “This ultimately leads to a higher-cost solution for
everyone,” he said in a phone interview from London.  The dispute about how to replace or extend Kyoto marred the
two weeks of talks and nearly derailed them. China, India,
Brazil and South Africa pressed industrial nations to agree to
new restrictions on fossil fuel emissions once Kyoto finishes.
Japan, Canada and Russia refused, saying the accord excludes the
world’s two biggest polluters, the U.S. and China.  “The negotiations are not completely fulfilled,” China’s
delegation chief  Xie Zhenhua  told delegates at the conference.
“The negotiations in the future will continue to be
difficult.”  Compromise Wording  Compromise wording keeps alive the possibility that Kyoto
is extended while not committing any nation to make new
promises. The UN document said countries will move as soon as
possible to ensure there is no gap between the Kyoto treaty’s
first commitment period expiring in 2012 and the next round of
cuts. It suggests “further work” will need to be done.  “This is a good paper, and a good basis for moving
forward,”  Kuni Shimada , the Japanese envoy, said in an
interview, praising the work of the Mexican foreign minister.
“She could have closed the meeting with it and that would be
the happy ending. She deserved her standing ovation.”  The UN text suggests the world keep temperature gains below
2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) and consider whether
to make the pledge 1.5 degrees. Current emissions reduction
pledges could lead temperatures to rise up to 5 degrees by 2100,
the UN Environment Program said Nov. 23.  “I’m really disappointed, because we’re toying around the
edges,”  Bharrat Jagdeo , president of Guyana, said in an
interview Dec. 9. “Positions are watered down. The greenhouse
gases are being pumped into the atmosphere.”  Bolivian Objection  Last year, Bolivia joined Venezuela, Sudan, Cuba, Nicaragua
and Tuvalu in blocking the Copenhagen Accord, an agreement
brokered by about 30 leaders, including U.S. President  Barack Obama  and China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao , from being adopted as a
formal UN text.  “There’s more work to do, but we’re willing to accept a
compromise,” Quamrul Chowdhury, a Bangladeshi envoy, said in an
interview.  A draft text covering possible extension of the Kyoto
treaty notes that developed countries would need to cut combined
emissions in the range of 25 percent to 40 percent below 1990
levels by 2020. Targets for the first commitment period, from
2008 through 2012, seek to cut developed country emissions by
5.2 percent from 1990 levels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Morales  in Cancun, Mexico, at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  