-- Climate Talks Back $100 Billion Aid Fund, Forest Protection; No Kyoto Deal
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-12-11T21:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-11/un-talks-endorse-100-billion-climate-aid-fund-forest-protection-program.html
Envoys at United Nations talks
agreed to a package aimed at limiting global warming by
protecting forests, advising nations on adapting to higher
temperatures and opening a $100 billion Green Climate Fund.  The group representing 193 nations set aside differences
between rich and poor nations about how to limit greenhouse gas
emissions after 2012, when restrictions in the 1997 Kyoto
Protocol expire. That issue may roil the talks next year.  “There is still a long journey ahead, a difficult
journey,”  Connie Hedegaard , the European Commission envoy to
the talks in Cancun, Mexico, said in an interview. “But we’ve
shown in the last few days that compromise is possible. That’s
the kind of spirit we need.”  The Cancun Agreements help heal a rift that resulted in the
collapse of negotiations last year in Copenhagen, where 144
nations led by the U.S. and China broke off from the rest of the
group to sign up for voluntary measures on limiting pollution
from fossil fuels. Bolivia, which was among six countries that
blocked an agreement in 2009, objected to this year’s program.  “It’s a pretty good balance,” said  Jennifer Morgan ,
climate and energy program director at the Washington-based
World Resources Institute. “We’ve managed to bring all major
emerging economies into a fragile UN agreement.”  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called the
agreement “a balanced and significant step forward.”  Elements of the Package  The deals in the UN text, which delegates greeted with
cheers and multiple standing ovations, include:  -- A “Green Climate Fund” that would manage a
“significant share” of the $100 billion pledged last year in
climate aid from richer to poorer nations. The World Bank was
invited to manage the fund.  -- A technology mechanism would be set up to help
developing nations tap low-carbon products such as wind
turbines, solar panels, and energy-saving devices. Further
market mechanisms will be debated at next year’s conference in
Durban, South Africa.  -- A forest plan known as Reducing Emissions from
Deforestation and Forest Degradation, or REDD. It would fund
projects in developing nations that use plants to soak up carbon
dioxide, the main greenhouse gas. A mention of using carbon
markets in the program was dropped from the agreement.  -- A “Cancun Adaptation Framework” that would help assess
the needs of the most vulnerable nations to adapt to the effects
of higher temperatures such as rising sea levels, increased
droughts and melting glaciers.  -- A package of details on how to monitor, report and
verify emissions reductions by developed countries and climate
protection actions taken by poorer ones, or MRV in UN jargon.  ‘Very Substantive’  “These drafts represent real and very substantive
progress,”  Patricia Espinosa , the Mexican foreign secretary who
is leading the talks, told delegates, who received an ovation
for her efforts.  The text did not outline tighter emission targets from any
nation, referring instead to figures that will be published
later covering cuts from industrial and developing nations.  The lack of an extension or a replacement for the Kyoto
treaty may boost the cost of fighting climate change, said  David Hone , chairman of the International Emissions Trading
Association, a Geneva-based lobby group,  “If there is no international cohesiveness, it makes it
more difficult for a responsive market-based approach to
develop,” said Hone, also Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s climate
adviser. “This ultimately leads to a higher-cost solution for
everyone,” he said in a phone interview from London.  Kyoto Dispute  The dispute about how to replace or extend Kyoto marred the
two weeks of talks and nearly derailed them. China, India,
Brazil and South Africa pressed industrial nations to agree to
new restrictions on fossil fuel emissions once Kyoto finishes.
Japan, Canada and Russia refused, saying the accord excludes the
world’s two biggest polluters, the U.S. and China.  “The negotiations are not completely fulfilled,” China’s
delegation chief  Xie Zhenhua  told delegates at the conference.
“The negotiations in the future will continue to be
difficult.”  Compromise wording keeps alive the possibility that Kyoto
is extended while not committing any nation to make new
promises. The UN document said countries will move as soon as
possible to ensure there is no gap between the Kyoto treaty’s
first commitment period expiring in 2012 and the next round of
cuts. It suggests “further work” will need to be done.  Confidence in Process  “They seem to have solved the Kyoto conundrum,” said Tim
Gore, policy adviser for Oxfam. “They seem to have a system
which will give enough confidence to developing countries that
the Kyoto Protocol will move ahead.”  The document notes developed countries would need to cut
combined emissions in the range of 25 percent to 40 percent
below 1990 levels by 2020. That compares with a 5.2 percent
target from 1990 levels between 2008 and 2012 under Kyoto.  “This is a good paper, and a good basis for moving
forward,”  Kuni Shimada , the Japanese envoy, said in an
interview, praising the work of the Mexican foreign minister.  The UN text suggests the world keep temperature gains below
2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) and consider whether
to make the pledge 1.5 degrees. Current emissions reduction
pledges could lead temperatures to rise up to 5 degrees by 2100,
the UN Environment Program said Nov. 23.  “I’m really disappointed, because we’re toying around the
edges,”  Bharrat Jagdeo , president of Guyana, said in an
interview on Dec. 9. “Positions are watered down. The
greenhouse gases are being pumped into the atmosphere.”  Copenhagen Collapse  Last year, Bolivia joined Venezuela, Sudan, Cuba, Nicaragua
and Tuvalu in blocking the Copenhagen Accord, an agreement
brokered by about 30 leaders, including U.S. President  Barack Obama  and China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao , from being adopted as a
formal UN text. Developing countries remain frustrated that
industrial countries aren’t cutting emissions more.  This year Bolivia also said it would not join in the
consensus. The chair of the meetings overrode those objections
and adopted the text, taking note of Bolivia’s concerns.  “Bolivia isn’t prepared to sign up to a document that puts
more human lives closer to death,” Pablo Solon, the nation’s
envoy at the talks, told delegates at the meeting this morning.  The U.S., which never ratified Kyoto, sat outside the
debate about how to extend the treaty. It prefers a new system
for limiting emissions that requires quick-growing polluters
including China and India to join. Todd Stern, head of the U.S.
delegation in Cancun, said the package showed “balance.”  A failure in Cancun would have lead to a loss of confidence
in the UN-led effort to curb global warming. And the coming
dispute over how to replace the Kyoto pact also threatens the
process.  “Kyoto is the lynchpin,”  Alden Meyer , who has attended
the UN talks for the U.S.-based Union of Concerned Scientists
for more than a decade, said in an interview. “If the message
out of here is that Kyoto is dead or on life support with no
chance of resuscitation then the developing countries will block
anything going forward that the U.S. needs for a new treaty.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in Cancun, Mexico at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Morales  in Cancun, Mexico, at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in Cancun, Mexico at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  