-- Apple Sued Over Applications Giving Information to Advertisers
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2010-12-28T05:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-23/judge-sets-bail-for-apple-manager-devine-uneasy-about-foreign-accounts.html
Apple Inc. , maker of the iPhone and
iPad, was accused in a lawsuit of allowing applications for
those devices to transmit users’ personal information to
advertising networks without customers’ consent.  The complaint, which seeks class action, or group, status,
was filed on Dec. 23 in federal court in San Jose, California.
The suit claims Cupertino, California-based Apple’s iPhones and
iPads are encoded with identifying devices that allow
advertising networks to track what applications users download,
how frequently they’re used and for how long.  “Some apps are also selling additional information to ad
networks, including users’ location, age, gender, income,
ethnicity, sexual orientation and political views,” according
to the suit.  The suit, filed on behalf of Jonathan Lalo of Los Angeles
County, identifies applications such as Pandora, Paper Toss, the
Weather Channel and Dictionary.com, and names them as defendants
along with Apple. Lalo is represented by Scott A. Kamber and Avi
Kreitenberg of KamberLaw LLC in New York.  Apple iPhones and iPads are set with a Unique Device
Identifier, or UDID, which can’t be blocked by users, according
to the complaint. Apple claims it reviews all applications on
its App Store and doesn’t allow them to transmit user data
without customer permission, according to the complaint.  The lawsuit, claiming the transmission of personal
information is a violation of federal computer fraud and privacy
laws, seeks class-action status for Apple customers who
downloaded an application on their iPhone or iPad between Dec.
1, 2008, and last week.  Amy Bessette, a spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t immediately
return a phone call or e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Lalo v. Apple, 10-5878, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 