-- Home Depot, Target Profits Fall; Staples' Net Gains
-- Cotten Timberlake
-- 2008-05-20T21:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-05-20/home-depot-target-profits-fall-staples-net-gains-update3-.html

          
          
             Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the world's largest
home-improvement chain, and discount retailer  Target Corp. (TGT)  said
profit fell as U.S. shoppers curbed spending.  Staples Inc. (SPLS) 
posted higher earnings by selling pens and paper to companies.  
 First-quarter net income dropped 66 percent at Home Depot,
while Target's earnings declined 7.5 percent as sales at stores
open more than a year fell for the first quarter in five years.
Luxury retailer  Saks Inc.'s (SKS)  earnings trailed the average
estimate of analysts. Profit at Staples Inc., the biggest U.S.
office-supplies retailer, rose 1.5 percent.  
 The results were further evidence that the U.S. economy is
slipping into a recession, as gasoline prices exceeding $3.75 a
gallon and rising food costs discourage spending on clothing and
home-remodeling projects. U.S.  consumer confidence  fell in May
to the lowest in almost 28 years, according to the Reuters/
University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment.  
 ``You've got bad consumer sentiment, higher gas and energy
prices, bad credit and housing markets and food inflation, and
all of those are going to make it difficult for the retailer to
pry dollars out of the consumer's wallet,'' Patricia Edwards, a
portfolio manager at Wentworth, Hauser & Violich in  Seattle ,
said in a telephone interview today. Edwards helps manage $14.5
billion in assets, including retailers' shares.  
 Home Depot declined $1.50, or 5.2 percent, to $27.37 at
4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Target
dropped 63 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $54.29. Saks tumbled 93
cents, or 6.7 percent, to $13.20. Staples rose 4 cents to
$23.61.  
 Home Depot  
 Atlanta-based Home Depot said  profit  fell to $356 million,
or 21 cents a  share , from $1.05 billion, or 53 cents, a year
earlier.  
 The company's ``results really reflect what we're seeing in
the housing market,'' Jeffrey Malcom, who helps manage $500
million at Horan Capital Management LLC in Towson,  Maryland ,
said in a Bloomberg Radio interview. ``It's a severe recession
at this point, and the consumer is being pinched by higher
energy prices.''  
 Chief Executive Officer  Frank Blake , who took over from
 Robert Nardelli  last year, cut headquarters and human-resources
jobs and closed stores after consumers limited home-improvement
purchases. To win back market share from  Lowe's Cos. (LOW) , Home Depot
hired plumbers and electricians to advise customers and added
new lighting and displays at more than half  its 2,258
locations.  
 Profit at Lowe's dropped 18 percent to $607 million, or 41
cents a share, and the retailer forecast full-year earnings that
trailed some analysts' estimates. Sales declined 1.3 percent to
$12 billion, the Mooresville, North Carolina-based company said
yesterday.  
 Home Sales  
 Sales of  previously owned homes , which account for about 85
percent of the housing market, fell in March, the seventh
decline in eight months. Purchases of existing houses typically
trigger home-improvement spending as owners prepare for a sale
and buyers paint or remodel after moving in.  
 ``The home-improvement market remains difficult, but we
believe the results show that Home Depot is making early
progress in its efforts to refocus,'' Chris Horvers, an analyst
with Bear Stearns & Co., wrote in a research note today.  
 Target's  net income  fell for the third straight quarter, to
$602 million, or 74 cents a share, from $651 million, or 75
cents, a year earlier. Earnings topped analysts' estimates after
the Minneapolis-based company said it had lower-than-predicted
expenses.  
 `Sensitive' Customers  
 ``Their core customer is still sensitive to the economy,
price increases, the price of gas, and a lot of items at Target
are discretionary purchases,'' said  David Abella , who helps
manage $2.5 billion in assets, including Target shares, for
Rochdale Investment Management LLC in New York.  
 Saks, which is targeted for a possible takeover by
Icelandic investment company Baugur Group HF, reported profit
that missed some analysts' estimates after it discounted women's
designer apparel to generate sales.  
 Net income rose to $18.3 million, or 13 cents a share, in
the three months ended May 3, missing the  average estimate  of
analysts by 3 cents. Revenue advanced 8.8 percent. New York-based Saks reaffirmed its 2008 sales forecast for stores open at
least a year.  
 The retailer's gross margin, or sales left after
subtracting the cost of goods, shrank more than some analysts
predicted, falling to 38.2 percent from 41.4 percent a year ago.
Saks held a spring clearance event earlier than usual, slashing
women's clothing prices by as much as 40 percent.  
 Margins `Slaughtered'  
 ``The gross margin got slaughtered by their markdowns,''
Patricia Edwards, a portfolio manager at Wentworth, Hauser &
Violich in Seattle, said in a telephone interview today. ``It's
a really crummy retail market out there. It's going to be
challenging for a while.''  Edwards helps manage $14.5 billion
in assets, including Saks shares.  
 Sales at U.S. retail stores open at least a year will
probably rise 1 percent to 2 percent in May, the  International
Council of Shopping Centers  and UBS Securities LLC said today.
Retailers use same-store sales to measure the health of older
stores.  
 Shoppers have turned to discount retailers such as  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  as lower home values and
record gasoline prices left them with less cash for other items.
U.S. consumer spending accounts for more than two-thirds of the
economy.  
 Wal-Mart, Target  
 ``There's a perception in the market that Wal-Mart is the
place to go for discounted merchandise,''  Joseph Feldman ,
managing director at Telsey Advisory Group in New York, said
today in a Bloomberg Radio interview. ``People just presume that
Target is a much more high-priced proposition. In fact they're
about the same price on most goods.''  
 Staples, based in Framingham,  Massachusetts , said first-quarter profit rose 1.5 percent to $212.3 million, or 30 cents a
share, from $209.1 million, or 29 cents, a year earlier. Revenue
climbed 6.4 percent even as sales at its retail stores declined.  
 ``Our customers feel worse off than they did this time last
year and have felt that way for six or eight months,''  Staples
Chief Financial Officer  John Mahoney  said today on a call.
``That feels like a recession to us.''  
 Sales at Staples' direct-sales division, which caters to
companies, and its overseas locations helped counter a slowdown
at U.S. and Canadian stores. Staples has kept profit growing
even as the slumping  U.S. economy  hurts demand for copiers and
desks, with margins that are wider than at  Office Depot Inc. (ODP)  and
OfficeMax Inc.  
 ``Their core business, selling to small businesses and
medium-sized businesses, has been growing nicely and has been
outpacing the competition,'' Feldman said. ``I think Staples
will continue to take share in that category.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Nol at   mnol@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        