-- Bratz designer erased computer files: lawyers
-- By  Gina Keating
-- Tue Jun 10, 2008 9:07pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/06/11/businesspro-mattel-bratz-larian-dc-idUSN1034956020080611

 

 RIVERSIDE, California  (Reuters) - A jury will learn that 
the creator of the popular Bratz doll erased files from his 
computer two days before handing it over as evidence in a 
federal trademark infringement lawsuit filed by Mattel Inc 
MAT.N, a judge in California ruled on Tuesday. 

  Mattel has sued family-owned MGA, claiming it owns the 
original Bratz concept drawings and that doll's creator, Carter 
Bryant made them and other Bratz drawings and models while he 
was under contract to Mattel as a Barbie designer.  Mattel contends that MGA poached Bryant to shore up sagging 
toy offerings, then tried to hide the connection when Bratz 
became a runaway hit in 2001.  At a hearing before testimony began on Tuesday, lawyers for 
both sides said Bryant had erased files, but they disagreed 
what he intended to erase.  U.S. District Judge Stephen Larson said the fact that 
Bryant used a program called Evidence Eliminator on his 
computer a few months after Mattel sued him and Bratz maker MGA 
Entertainment Inc in 2004 "is relevant to his credibility as a 
witness" in the trial now under way in Riverside, Calif.  Defense attorneys for MGA, which is battling to keep its 
rights to the urban chic dolls, contended that Bryant had 
merely intended to erase sexually explicit pop up ads.  The lost files possibly included documents relevant to the 
case, such as emails or drawings, Mattel attorneys said.  The program, sold as a security utility, touts "secure 
deletion processes similar to US Government Military 
Standards," according to its Web advertisements.  Mattel reached a confidential settlement with Bryant before 
the trial started on May 27. Bryant is expected to testify 
later this week.
  'UNDER WRAPS'  Also on Tuesday, MGA founder and Chief Executive Isaac 
Larian spent his third day on the witness stand explaining, 
under questioning from his company's attorney, what Mattel had 
portrayed as attempts to hide Bryant's involvement with Bratz.  Larian has characterized the lawsuit as a "David versus 
Goliath" battle, and has repeatedly denied on the witness stand 
that he intentionally tried to hide Bryant's identity.  He testified on Tuesday that MGA had conversations with 
Mattel representatives about the bigger company licensing and 
distributing the soon-to-be launched Bratz in February of 2001.  And MGA attorney Thomas Nolan pointed out a 2003 Wall 
Street Journal article, in which Larian credits Bryant, "a 
former member of the Barbie team," with creating Bratz.  That article came about five months after an email to 
Larian in which an MGA executive remarks that the company 
"wants to keep Carter under wraps."  Larian testified, however, that he had already received a 
cease and desist letter from Mattel over a Bratz fan site and 
feared the success of his pouty-lipped, big headed doll line 
would draw his larger rival's ire.  "Mattel had sued literally anybody who got into the fashion 
doll business," he said.  He advised his sales staff in a June 2001 email that "MGA 
has full, free and clear rights to Bratz trademark and Bratz 
dolls. I have been advised that Mattel is spreading rumors that 
there are legal issues regarding Bratz. This is untrue."  (Reporting by Gina Keating; editing by Carol Bishopric)