-- Abbott Narrows Gap on Rudd as Preferred Prime Minister in Australian Poll
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-06-20T23:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/abbott-narrows-preferred-head-gap-on-australia-leader-rudd-newspoll-shows.html

          
          
             Australian opposition leader  Tony Abbott  narrowed the gap with incumbent  Kevin Rudd  as preferred
prime minister, according to a Newspoll published today, in the
lead up to an election that may be held within months.  
 Dissatisfaction with Rudd hit a record 55 percent,
according to a telephone survey of 1,147 people between June 18
and 20 published in the Australian newspaper today. Abbott’s
rating as a better choice for prime minister rose to 37 percent
versus 46 percent for Rudd, closing the gap from 59 percent to
27 percent three months ago.  
 Rudd’s “lead-from-the-front sort of style” has tied
support for the government very closely to his personal ratings,
Newspoll Chief Executive Officer Martin O’Shannessy told
Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio today.  
 Support for Rudd began to slide after he shelved the
government’s carbon-trading plans in April, a key campaign
pledge when he won office in November 2007. Rudd is also trying
to win support for his proposed 40 percent tax on the “super
profits” of resource projects in Australia, the world’s biggest
shipper of coal and iron ore, and says he won’t be intimidated
by industry pressure to water down the tax announced May 2.  
 Labor’s primary vote held steady at a four-year low of 35
percent and Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition lost 1
percentage point to 40 percent, according to the survey, which
had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  
 Popularity Slides  
 Labor leads the conservative opposition 52 percent to 48
percent on a two-party preferred basis, down from 56 percent to
44 percent in late March, according to the survey, as a A$38.5
million ($33.9 million)  advertising  campaign, authorized by the
government under powers used in a national emergency, urged
Australians to support the resource levy as part of an overhaul
of the economy.  
 Advertisements  sponsored  by the Minerals Council of
Australia, warn “everyone” will suffer if the tax is imposed.
Resources companies like  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  Rio Tinto Group 
say the levy will jeopardize investment and limit jobs growth.  
 Rudd’s approval as prime minister peaked at 74 percent in
March 2009, according to a Nielsen poll at the time, making him
the most popular prime minister since Labor leader Bob Hawke in
the 1980s.  
 Now he faces speculation that Labor lawmakers may want
Welsh-born deputy leader  Julia Gillard  to take his place to
shore up support before a national election that must be held by
April 2011.  
 Australia may hold the election in mid-September with this
week’s session of Parliament likely to be the last before the
polls, the Australian Financial Review newspaper reported today,
without saying where it got the information.  
 “Tony Abbott hasn’t been highly active and has improved
his position -- that suggests the issues about where the
government is going are definitely about Mr. Rudd rather than Mr.
Abbott,” O’Shannessy said. A change of leader to Gillard
“would be seen as desperation,” he added.  
 Talk of a leadership challenge is “complete nonsense,”
Finance Minister  Lindsay Tanner  told ABC radio today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        