-- Abu Dhabi's Masdar Said to Lose MIT Venture Research Chief in First Year
-- Ayesha Daya
-- 2010-06-21T09:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/abu-dhabi-s-masdar-said-to-lose-mit-venture-research-chief-in-first-year.html

          
          
             Tariq Ali  quit as head of research
at  Masdar Institute of Science and Technology  after a year in
the post, said two people familiar with the matter, the latest
departure from Abu Dhabi’s flagship renewable energy project.  
 Dan Weisser, head of real-estate investments at Masdar
City, and the head of the program management department Alistair
Murray are also leaving, said two people familiar with each
departure, declining to be identified because they are not
authorized to speak with the media.  
 The resignations follow a strategic review of  Masdar , a $22
billion company funded by the government of Abu Dhabi as it
seeks to become an international hub for renewable energy.
Founded in 2006, Masdar includes a research university as well
as units that plan to invest in solar power and carbon capture
and storage in a country that is one of the world’s biggest per
capita producers of carbon emissions.  
 “It is well-known that the company was reconsidering the
original plans for Masdar City,” said  Eckart Woertz , an
economist at the Gulf Research Center in Dubai. Resignations
“might hint to some problems at the university, but a lot of
the renewable energy projects will go ahead as planned,” Woertz
said, referring to an accord Masdar signed June 9 with Total SA
and Abengoa SA to build the Middle East’s biggest solar plant.  
 Showpiece  
 Masdar is the showpiece of Abu Dhabi’s pursuit of
alternative energy. Holder of most of the oil and gas reserves
in the United Arab Emirates, the fifth-biggest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Abu Dhabi is also
building nuclear power plants and successfully lobbied to host
the  International Renewable Energy Agency  headquarters.  
 The first departures began around the same time as the
review, which took place in 2009. The resignations of Ziad
Tassabehji, Masdar’s director of innovation and investments at
Masdar City, and  Khaled Awad , director of property development,
were confirmed in February.  
 The initial strategy envisioned for Masdar was “very
ambitious,” Chief Executive Officer  Sultan al-Jaber  said
earlier this month.  
 Ali, 46, will leave his position as Vice President for
Research and Industry Relations at the Masdar Institute, a joint
venture with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, at the
end of July. He’s looking for other positions in the emirate,
the people said.  
 Ali is a former U.K. government energy adviser and director
of the Energy and Environment Office at London’s Imperial
College.  
 Renewable Energy  
 Ali and Murray declined to comment when contacted by
Bloomberg, and Weisser did not answer calls to his mobile phone.
A spokesman for Masdar said the company doesn’t comment on
people who are leaving, to protect their privacy.  
 Masdar Institute, a graduate-level university for renewable
energy research that opened last September, is envisioned as the
centerpiece of Masdar. The curriculum and programs have been
developed with MIT, and the institute expects its student
population to multiply tenfold to 800 by 2015.  
 Abu Dhabi has agreed on a number of international
partnerships to fund research into alternative energy. General
Electric Co. in 2008 formed an $8 billion fund with Mubadala
Development Co., the Abu Dhabi sovereign wealth fund that owns
Masdar, to include an investment in a research center to be
built at Masdar City. GE said in January it had not completed
the financial details for the planned center.  
 GE at the time pledged also to invest $50 million in
Masdar’s Clean Tech fund, a $250 million venture capital pool
managed by Credit Suisse Group AG. Siemens AG said this year it
is investing $50 million in the fund. Korea Investment Corp, the
sovereign wealth fund of South Korea, is considering investing
up to $100 million in the Clean Tech fund, Maeil Business
Newspaper reported in March.  
 No Cars, Trucks  
 Masdar City itself will house all the renewable energy
initiatives. Designed by London-based architects Foster and
Partners Ltd, it would eliminate cars and trucks at street level
and include shaded walkways in a nation that endures
temperatures of well over 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 Celsius)
during summer months.  
 The U.A.E. has the world’s worst per-capita “ecological
footprint,” the World Wildlife Fund said in a 2007 report based
on data from 2003. The so-called footprint measures stress on a
country’s environment using indicators such as carbon dioxide
emissions caused by the burning of fossil fuels.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Dubai 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chief executive officer of Masdar Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber. Photographer: Stephen Lock/The National via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
