-- Macarthur Coal Founder Talbot, Sundance Resources CEO Missing in Cameroon
-- Elisabeth Behrmann
-- 2010-06-20T11:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/macarthur-coal-founder-talbot-sundance-resources-ceo-missing-in-cameroon.html

          
          
             Sundance Resources Ltd ., an
Australian-based iron ore explorer, today confirmed  Ken Talbot ,
former chief executive officer of Australian mining company
 Macarthur Coal Ltd ., is missing in West Africa after an aircraft
carrying nine mining executives was lost.  
 Talbot was on board a plane chartered by Sundance on a
flight to the company’s Mbalam iron ore project in Cameroon from
the capital, Yaounde, yesterday, according to an e-mailed
statement from Don Nissen, chairman of Talbot Group Management.  
 Also missing are Sundance Chairman  Geoff Wedlock , Chief
Executive Officer  Don Lewis , Company Secretary  John Carr-Gregg 
and non-executive directors John Jones, Craig Oliver and Talbot,
Sundance said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 “Between them, without exaggeration, there are two
centuries of mining experience,” said  Gavin Wendt , an analyst
at Sydney-based Mine Life Resources, by phone.  
 “The families of the missing have been notified and are
being supported during this deeply distressing time,” the
company’s statement said.  
 Emergency response procedures have been activated, with
efforts focused on coordinating with the government authorities
in the Republic of Cameroon, Republic of Gabon and Republic of
Congo as well as with the Department of Foreign Affairs and
Trade and Australia’s diplomatic representatives to locate the
aircraft, the Perth-based iron-ore developer’s statement said.  
 Well Known  
 Talbot owns 16.1 percent of Sundance, according to
Bloomberg data. A well-known Australian mining figure, he
founded Macarthur Coal and built the company into the largest
producer of pulverized coal used in steelmaking, with a current
market capitalization of A$3.18 billion ($2.76 billion). His
current investments span iron ore, uranium, liquefied natural
gas and copper.  
 Talbot Group spokesman Shane Edwards and Sundance
spokeswoman Felicity Nuttal declined to comment further.  
 “The Australian High Commissioner-designate to Abuja --
currently in Cameroon -- is managing the government’s response
on the ground,” said spokeswoman Ranya Alkadamanini of the
Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade by e-mail.  
 Sundance shares rose 4 percent on June 18 to 13 cents,
giving it a market capitalization of A$352.3 million.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        