-- China's Stocks Rise as Yuan Gains Reduce Need for Tightening; Banks Climb
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-21T07:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/air-china-china-southern-ningbo-donly-sinopec-chinese-equities-preview.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  rallied the most in
almost a month, led by banks, airlines and property companies,
on the prospect that a stronger yuan will tame inflation and
reduce the need for interest-rate increases.  
 China Southern Airlines Co. , the nation’s largest carrier,
rallied 8.2 percent after the central bank signaled that it will
loosen the yuan’s peg to the dollar.  Industrial and Commercial
Bank of China Ltd.  and China Vanke Co. added more than 2 percent
after Morgan Stanley upgraded lenders and real-estate stocks.  
 “An appreciation in the yuan will reduce inflationary
pressures and benefit consumption by increasing purchasing
power,” said  Shi Bo , general manager of Shanghai Elegant
Investment Co., which oversees about $278 million in assets,
including a fund that was ranked first among the 678 China-based
funds tracked by Bloomberg. “It’s positive for stocks.”  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, gained 72.99, or 2.9 percent, to
2,586.21 at the close, the biggest gain since May 24. The  CSI
300 Index  rose 3.1 percent to 2,780.66.  
 Some brokerages and fund managers are getting more bullish
on China’s stocks after the People’s Bank of China pledged over
the weekend to make the yuan more flexible, while ruling out a
one-time revaluation of the currency that’s been held at about
6.83 yuan per dollar since mid-2008.  
 The nation’s equities were raised to “overweight” from
“neutral” at BNP Paribas, which predicted a 36 percent rally
and reversed a yearlong call to favor Indian stocks instead. AMP
Capital Investors Ltd., an Australian asset manager with more
than $90 billion of assets, said it may buy more yuan-
denominated equities in China.  
 ‘Bullish Catalyst’  
 China’s move to end the yuan’s fixed rate to the dollar is
a “bullish catalyst” for the nation’s yuan-denominated and
Hong Kong-traded stocks, Morgan Stanley said.  
 The brokerage upgraded  banks and property stocks  to
“overweight,” saying yuan appreciation in the second half will
help regulators manage inflation and reduce the need for further
tightening.  
 Banks were previously rated “equal-weight” while property
shares were rated “underweight,” according to a report by
analysts including  Jerry Lou . The analysts also said they were
replacing expressways with airlines in their model portfolio.  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China, the nation’s biggest
listed lender, led gains for banks, rising 2.6 percent to 4.28
yuan.  China Construction Bank Corp. , the second-largest, gained
3.5 percent to 4.97 yuan. Vanke, the nation’s largest developer,
added 3.8 percent to 7.34 yuan. Poly Real Estate Group Co., the
second-biggest, advanced 5.2 percent to 11.80 yuan.  
 Property Rally  
 China’s Se Shang Property Index advanced 3.8 percent today.
The measure has plunged 26 percent this year, the worst
performer among the five industry groups in the Shanghai
Composite, after the government ordered banks to hold more of
their assets in reserve, set a lower lending target for 2010,
and drained liquidity through bill sales.  
 China Southern, the nation’s biggest carrier by fleet size,
advanced 8.2 percent to 7.27 yuan.  Air China Ltd. , the largest
international carrier, rose 6.4 percent to 11.73 yuan. China
Eastern Airlines Corp., the second-largest, added 5.6 percent to
7.93 yuan.  
 China’s airlines are major beneficiaries of a gain in the
yuan given their foreign-currency debt, while textile producers
will be hurt as profit margins narrow, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s  Jing Ulrich .  
 The yuan policy shift may relieve pressure on the Chinese
government to step up measures to control economic growth, said
 Nader Naeimi , a Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital. The fund
manager may also buy more commodity shares because a stronger
yuan will boost Chinese demand for raw materials, Naeimi said,
declining to name specific stocks.  
 No Reversal  
 Essence Securities Co., ranked second for strategy research
by New Fortune magazine last year, said China’s pledge to
increase the flexibility of its exchange rate won’t reverse the
trend of the stock market. The brokerage remains “cautious” on
shares given shrinking liquidity, slowing economic and corporate
earnings growth and fundraising pressures.  
 The yuan climbed 0.4 percent to 6.8019 per dollar as of
3:21 p.m., from 6.8262 on June 18, the biggest gain since Oct. 7,
2008, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trading System.
The 12-month non-deliverable yuan forward strengthened 1.4
percent to 6.6209 per dollar, implying that traders are betting
on a 2.7 percent appreciation.  
 The Shanghai gauge fell 2.2 percent last week on concern
valuations for pharmaceutical and technology companies were
excessive relative to the earnings outlook. It has lost 21
percent this year, Asia’s worst performer, on concern government
measures to rein in housing prices and the European debt crisis
will damp growth.  
 The following companies were among the most active in
China’s markets. Stock symbols are in brackets after companies’
names.  
 Hainan-based stocks:  Hainan Zhuxin Investment Co.  (600515
CH), a department store operator, climbed 5.1 percent to 6.66
yuan. Hainan Zhenghe Industrial Group Co. (600759 CH) surged the
10 percent daily cap to 6.72 yuan.  
 China’s National Development and Reform Commission approved
a plan to make Hainan province an international tourism
destination, the Shanghai Securities News reported today,
without citing anyone.  
      Chongqing Brewery Co.  (600132 CH) rose 3.1 percent to 37.50
yuan after the Shanghai Securities News reported today
operations have returned to normal after workers ended a strike.  
 Wuhan Kaidi Electric Power Co.  (000939 CH) slumped the 10
percent daily limit to 13.95 yuan after the securities regulator
rejected its application for a private share placement.  
 -- Zhang Shidong ,  Chua Kong Ho . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        