-- Aluminum Bottoms With Ghosn Outlook Helping Deripaska
-- Millie Munshi
-- 2010-06-21T21:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/aluminum-bottoms-with-ghosn-predicting-11-car-growth-benefiting-deripaska.html

          
          
             Billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s
forecast for a potential aluminum shortage and record global car
output predicted by  Carlos Ghosn  mean the world’s second most-
used metal may be about to rebound.  
 Smelters will shut this quarter because about 70 percent
are unprofitable after aluminum fell as much as 27 percent in
two months, said Deripaska, chief executive officer of United
Co. Rusal, the largest producer. Ghosn, CEO of  Renault SA  and
Nissan Motor Corp., expects car production to gain about 11
percent this year. Transportation is the biggest use for
aluminum.  
 The executives are more bullish than  Wall Street , where the
median in a Bloomberg survey of 19 analysts is for the metal to
average $2,100 a metric ton in the fourth quarter, 7.1 percent
more than now.  Harbor Intelligence , the researcher which
correctly predicted a 2009 closing price above $2,200, forecasts
prices as high as $2,500 before the end of this year.  
 “We see a long, steady climb for aluminum,” said  Andrew Karsh , who helps manage $4.8 billion for the Credit Suisse Total
Commodity Return Strategy team in New York. “We’ve been having
a reactionary market instead of one that is driven by the
fundamentals. The fundamentals are still strong.”  
 The U.S. will grow the most in six years in 2010 and  China ,
the biggest aluminum consumer, will expand at three times that
pace, according to as many as 67 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Manufacturing is leading the rebound in the world’s
largest economy, rising for a 10th month in May, while
construction spending in April added the most since 2000. One in
every five tons of aluminum is used in building.  
 Indebted Nations  
 The growth is coinciding with concern that Europe’s most
indebted nations will derail the region’s recovery as
governments shrink budget deficits. Western Europe accounts for
about 15 percent of aluminum demand. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Index of 24 raw materials fell 19 percent in the three weeks to
May 25 and as much as $7.7 trillion was wiped off the value of
global equities from mid-April to the end of last month.  
 Aluminum fell $1 to $1,944 last week, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index gained 2.4 percent, erasing this year’s loss.
The S&P GSCI Index advanced 3.5 percent.  
 Aluminum for delivery in three months closed 0.9 percent
higher at $1,961 in  London  after China signaled it will relax
the yuan’s fixed rate to the dollar, boosting optimism for
increased sales in the world’s third-largest economy.  
 Shares Rally  
 Shares of Rusal gained 5.8 percent in  Hong Kong , paring the
decline since they listed in January to 34 percent.  Alcoa Inc .,
the third-largest producer, rallied as much as 9.1 percent in
New York, closing up 5.5 percent at $11.72 and leaving the
decline since January at 7.9 percent.  Rio Tinto  Group, the
second-biggest, jumped 5 percent in London, erasing this year’s
loss.  
 “The price drop that we’ve seen is something that we view
as a shorter-term correction because fear is increasing above
normal levels,” said Jesus Villegas, an analyst at Laredo,
Texas-based Harbor. “Historical evidence has shown that in
years when demand grows pretty quickly, like we are expecting in
the next two years, production increases tend to lag,” he said,
predicting the biggest supply shortfall in five years in 2011.  
 Smelters may shut facilities that can make 2 million to 3
million tons in the second and third quarters, equal to about
half of annual North American demand, Deripaska said in an
interview June 9 in Hong Kong.  
 Capacity Offline  
 In March 2009, 7.3 million tons of capacity was offline,  Barclays Capital  estimated last year. Prices had slumped 62
percent in seven months from a record $3,380.15 in July 2008.
Aluminum rallied 95 percent from February 2009 to April this
year, boosting earnings for Rusal, Rio Tinto and Alcoa. It fell
to $1,828 on June 7.  
 The consensus among analysts has been too pessimistic
before. A year ago, their median forecast for this year’s
average was $1,700, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg
at the time. The actual average this year has been $2,173.  
 Part of their sentiment is explained by the near-record
stockpiles held in warehouses monitored by the London Metal
Exchange. Inventory of 4.47 million tons is five times the
average since 1980 and more than  Europe  makes in a year.  
 LME-monitored reserves are little changed from a year ago
and about 80 percent is tied to transactions, making it behave
as a “financial asset rather than an industrial feedstock,”
said  Daniel Brebner , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in London.
Projections for  interest rates  to remain near record lows in the
next 12 months mean the metal may not return to the market any
time soon, he said.  
 ‘Not an Impediment’  
 “High exchange stocks will not be an impediment to higher
prices as long as most of this material remains tied up in long-
term financing deals,” said Nic Brown, an analyst at Natixis
Commodity Markets Ltd. in London, who expects a second-half
average of $2,450. His forecast for 2010 demand growth of 13
percent compares with Barclays’s projection of 12 percent, the
fastest pace in at least a quarter-century.  
 Ghosn of Yokohama-based Nissan, Japan’s third-largest
automaker, told investors a month ago that while 2010 would be a
“challenging” year, “the worst of the crisis is behind us.”
His forecast for record global car sales of 70 million compares
with 63 million last year and the previous all-time high was
68.5 million in 2007, Renault’s press office said in an e-mail.
Nissan forecast May 12 that profit will more than triple this
fiscal year. Its shares dropped 15 percent in Tokyo trading this
year.  
 Auto Sales  
 U.S. auto sales rose to 1.1 million in May, the eighth
straight monthly increase, as General Motors Co., Ford Motor
Co., Chrysler Group LLC, Nissan and Hyundai Motor Co. exceeded
analysts’ delivery estimates. On average, 8.6 percent of a North
American car’s weight is made up of aluminum, according to the
Arlington, Virginia-based Aluminum Association’s Aluminum
Transportation Group.  
 Demand from the  airline industry  may weaken. Production of
commercial jetliners will drop to 882 units this year, from 960
last year, according to December estimates from Fairfax,
Virginia-based aviation consultant Teal Group.  Boeing Co . says a
typical 747 uses about 66 tons of aluminum alloy.  
 A slower global recovery may curtail the rally. Group of 20
finance chiefs meeting in  South Korea  this month said the
rebound faces “significant challenges” and International
Monetary Fund Deputy Managing Director Naoyuki Shinohara warned
June 9 of more risks. U.S. housing starts fell in May by the
most since March 2009, Commerce Department data show.  
 Surplus Production  
 China, accounting for 40 percent of global output, exported
more of the refined metal in April than it imported for the
first time since the end of 2008. China will produce 510,000
tons more than it needs this year, Barclays estimates.  
 A rally would mean fewer unprofitable smelters, limiting
shutdowns and encouraging mothballed plants to reopen. Prices at
$2,200 or more would probably encourage capacity to come back on
line, said Julian Kettle, a London-based analyst at researcher
Brook Hunt, a Wood Mackenzie company. Barclays expects output to
rise 11 percent to 42 million tons this year, worth about $98
billion at the five-year average price of $2,328.  
 Cutbacks have yet to appear. Global output rose to a record
daily average of 112,500 tons in April, according to the London-
based International Aluminium Institute, which says steel is the
most-used metal. It was 112,300 tons a day in May.  
 European Premiums  
 Rising production is not being reflected in availability.
European premiums, or the fee added to the price of metal for
immediate delivery on the LME, will probably be as much as $115
a ton this month, compared with $60 in January, because of a
scarcity of available metal, according to London-based
researcher CRU Group. Premiums in Japan more than doubled in a
year.  
 Capacity is also being added in regions where power costs
are lower. Globally, energy accounts for about 39 percent of
total costs, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  
 New smelters in  Abu Dhabi  and Qatar and Chinese plants will
add capacity this year, Barclays said in a report this month.
That will be partly offset by Europe, where about two-thirds of
plants “are in danger of closure” before the end of 2013, the
European Aluminium Association says.  
 Energy may stunt the growth of output in China, where the
government is raising power surcharges by as much as 100 percent
for some energy-intensive companies starting this month.  
 Supply could also be kept off the market by exchange-traded
funds backed by the metal. Rusal said in April it was in talks
to supply metal to banks for possible ETFs.  
 Swing to Profit  
 Deripaska’s company said in May it swung to a first-quarter
profit from a loss. Rio, based in London, will more than double
earnings per share to $6.82 this year, according to the mean
estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Alcoa, based in  New York , will post earnings per share of 30.3 cents this year,
compared with a loss of $1.06 last year, the estimates show.  
 “You aren’t going to see a lot of downside risks from
here,” Deutsche Bank’s Brebner said. “It will probably start
to hurt in the $1,900 to $2,000 region and now we are below that
so there is probably pressure growing.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Stablum in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net ;
Millie Munshi in New York at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Aluminum rods are stacked outside a warehouse at a shipping terminal in Yokohama City, Kanagawa Prefecture on April 22, 2009. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An aluminum coil stands in a warehouse awaiting transport, at an Alcoa World Alumina Australia smelting plant, partially owned by Alumina Ltd., in Point Henry, Australia, July 30, 2008.  Photographer: Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Aluminum ingots are stacked outside for cooling at an Alcoa World Alumina Australia smelting plant, partially owned by Alumina Ltd., in Point Henry, Australia, July 30, 2008. Photographer: Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A hot aluminum coil is moved via a bridge crane onto a pallet for marking at an Alcoa World Alumina Australia smelting plant, partially owned by Alumina Ltd., in Point Henry, Australia, July 30, 2008. Photographer: Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
