-- Asia Company Bond Spread Gap Shows Battered Junk Debt May be Set to Rally
-- Shelley Smith
-- 2010-06-20T23:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/asia-company-bond-spread-gap-shows-battered-junk-debt-may-be-set-to-rally.html

          
          
             The  gap between spreads  on Asia’s
lowest investment-grade bonds and its top high-yield notes
widened to the most in a year, signaling junk debt may rally
after investors dumped it amid Europe’s fiscal crisis.  
 The difference between bonds ranked at least Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service or BBB- by Standard & Poor’s and those one
grade lower at Ba1 or BB+ climbed to 2.8 percentage points after
rising to as much as 3.15 percentage points last month, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show. That’s almost five times the
0.61 percentage point gap of June 2009 and 1.1 percentage points
above the one-year average.  
 “If you can take a long-term view the high-yield space
looks pretty attractive,”  Gregor Carle , Fidelity International
Ltd.’s fixed-income investment director, said in an interview in
Hong Kong. “Without a doubt there are opportunities to be found
in the gap between investment-grade and high-yield.”  
 Concern about contagion from Greece’s fiscal crisis
triggered five weeks of withdrawals from global speculative-
grade bond funds through June 9, according to EPFR Global, even
as Moody’s forecast corporate defaults will plunge amid a global
economic recovery. Investors withdrew $6.37 billion from junk
bond funds until the week ending June 16, when money managers
won back a net $164 million, according to EPFR, which tracks
global capital flows.  
 Companies with the highest junk ratings are fundamentally
the same as they were before Greece roiled markets and so their
debt is undervalued, said Carle, who helps oversee $752 million
in Fidelity International’s Asian High-Yield Fund.  
 ‘Substantial’ Compensation  
 “If you’re an investor that can switch freely between
investment-grade and high-yield corporates, now is a good time
to switch out of lower-rated investment-grade into the higher-
rated high-yield,”  Viktor Hjort , a Hong Kong-based credit
strategist at  Morgan Stanley , said in a phone interview. The
compensation for the additional risk is “substantial,” he said.  
 The Asia-Pacific region’s corporate default rate will
“drop sharply” to 3.5 percent this year from 17 percent in
2009 as the region’s economies and credit markets strengthen,
Moody’s said on June 13.  
 “The bulk of defaults are behind us already, so in the
medium to long run high-yield is an attractive asset class,”
 Brayan Lai , a credit analyst at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong,
said in an interview. “Will the spread between BBB and BB
credits narrow again? Yes, it definitely will.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        