-- Best Stocks Liked Least by Analysts Who Missed U.S. Rebound
-- Lynn Thomasson
-- 2010-06-21T21:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/best-stocks-were-liked-least-by-analysts-who-failed-to-see-economy-rebound.html

          
          
             Wall Street’s lowest-rated stocks
have turned into this year’s  best performers , a sign that
analysts who underestimated the U.S. economy will boost their
recommendations and trigger even bigger gains in equities.  
 Huntington Bancshares Inc. , the regional lender in
Columbus, Ohio, had twice as many “sell” ratings as “buys”
in December and jumped 66 percent this year for the fourth-
largest advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Eastman
Kodak Co.  and  Sunoco Inc.  have gained more than 20 percent after
more than 30 percent of the analysts covering them at the start
of the year recommended getting rid of the shares.  
 Companies most dependent on U.S. growth have the highest
proportion of “sell” ratings even as economists predict the
fastest expansion since 2004. Banks,  property developers  and
automakers rallied 12 percent on average this year. Investors
say the bears will capitulate, providing the next catalyst for
more stock gains.  
 “The best kind of company to own is the one where the vast
majority of analysts are negative but you see things turning
around,” said  Thomas Wilson , managing director of the
institutional investments and private client group at Brinker
Capital, which manages about $9 billion from Berwyn,
Pennsylvania. “I don’t really want to own the stock that has
nothing but favorable ratings because the expectations are so
high.”  
 Most Optimistic  
 Analysts were most optimistic in December on industries
whose  profits  are least tied to economic growth, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Those shares have trailed the S&P
500 after economists boosted projections for 2010 GDP expansion
to 3.2 percent from 2.7 percent in January, the data show.  Coca-
Cola Co. , the world’s largest soda maker, had 14 “buys” and 1
“sell” rating in December and has lost 7.9 percent this year,
based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 More than 52 percent of recommendations for S&P 500
drugmakers, computer companies and food producers were bullish.
 Pfizer Inc. , the world’s largest pharmaceutical company, is down
17 percent this year even after 81 percent of analysts covering
the New York-based firm said investors should buy shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from the end of last
year.  
 Lenders, Apartment Builders  
 Wall Street was most bearish on groups whose earnings fell
the furthest in the recession:  banks , which gained 11 percent
this year; property developers, up 14 percent, and automakers,
which rose 9.9 percent, the data show. Real estate stocks have
rallied on signs household wealth is rebounding and the Federal
Reserve will keep benchmark interest rates at a record low until
next year.  
 “The crowd tends to get you off into the wrong area at the
wrong time,” said  Barry James , who manages $2 billion as chief
executive officer for James Investment Research Inc. in Xenia,
Ohio. “When the analysts are all on board saying only good
things can happen, it’s already built into the price. There’s
not a lot of upside left.”  
 The S&P 500 dropped 0.4 percent to 1,113.20 today. The
gauge rose 2.4 percent last  week  as reports showed New York-area
 manufacturing  expanded for an 11th month and Europe’s efforts to
contain its debt crisis bolstered confidence. The gauge has lost
8.6 percent since April 23 amid concern that widening budget
deficits in European nations would lower growth. The benchmark
index is down 0.2 percent for the year.  
 Reasons to Sell  
 Bearish ratings signal a company or industry face above-
average risk and are reasons for investors to sell, said  Keith Wirtz , who oversees $18 billion as chief investment officer at
Fifth Third Asset Management Inc. in Cincinnati.  
 Four of the thirteen analysts covering Denver-based
 ProLogis  told investors to sell the shares in December. The
world’s biggest owner of warehouses has since fallen 15 percent
this year after saying on April 22 that slack demand for storage
pushed funds from operations down 90 percent in the first
quarter.  
 “You shouldn’t be blinded by these huge stock moves,”
Wirtz said. “If there’s a preponderance of sell ratings on a
particular stock, logic would suggest that there must be reasons
for the dislike, real fundamental challenges.”  
 Analysts were most pessimistic on a group of 16  lenders  in
December, with “sell” ratings making up 17 percent of the
industry’s recommendations, the highest proportion among 24
industries in the S&P 500, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
advice backfired as the measure rallied 12 percent this year,
led by an 86 percent surge in Salt Lake City-based  Zions
Bancorp.   
 REITs, Automakers  
 “Sell” ratings for real estate companies and automakers
in the S&P 500 accounted for 13 percent and 14 percent,
respectively, of the total in December, Bloomberg data show.  
 Three times as many analysts recommended selling shares of
 Apartment Investment & Management Co.  in December than buying,
according to Bloomberg data. Bank of Montreal’s  Rich Anderson ,
who has covered Aimco for 15 years, cut it to “underperform”
from “market perform” on April 26. The property manager has
soared 37 percent this year on speculation U.S. apartments may
lead a rebound in commercial real estate.  
 “My call is really valuation based,” said Anderson in an
interview from New York. “They’ve made mistakes in the past and
burned investors in the past. It’s a highly complex organization
that has historically done things outside of the box and hasn’t
been bashful about doing those things.”  
 Aimco Valuation  
 Aimco trades at 24 times funds from operations, compared
with the  median  multiple of 14 since the Denver-based company
went public in 1994, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The shares
sank as much as 89 percent during the credit crisis.  
 Executives at  property managers  are becoming more
optimistic on the outlook for earnings, which may push stocks in
the industry higher, Anderson said in the April 26 report. Among
the 14 companies in the S&P 500 measure of real estate
investment trusts, 11  beat  the average analyst estimate for
first-quarter profit, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Investors who followed the advice of Macquarie Group Ltd.’s
 Michael Levy , who upgraded Aimco on May 1, 2009, to
“outperform” from “neutral,” would have tripled their
return.  
 ‘High Leverage’  
 “People were concerned about high leverage, liquidity,
that their apartment portfolio may suffer worse than others,”
said Levy, who is based in New York. “I was looking at it with
a relatively fresh set of eyes because I launched coverage on
the stock in the first quarter of last year. We thought the
growth profile of the company was actually pretty good.”  
 Apartment vacancies will probably reach 8.2 percent in
2010, the highest level since at least 1980, and start declining
the following year, said research firm Reis Inc. on May 19.
Defaults on apartment-building mortgages held by U.S. banks
climbed to a record 4.6 percent in the first quarter, almost
twice the year-earlier level, according to a May 24 report from
Real Capital Analytics Inc.  
 Analysts turning optimistic may provide fuel for a stock to
rally. At least 11 analysts have raised their rating on  PNC
Financial Services Group Inc.  to “buy” this year as the
Pittsburgh-based lender gained 17 percent. The fifty companies
in the S&P 500 that had the most upgrades to “buy” have risen
11 percent on average this year, compared with a 1.7 percent
advance for those with the most downgrades to “sell,”
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Fairholme Holdings  
 The strategy of picking stocks that other investors don’t
want is working for  Bruce Berkowitz , named U.S. stock manager of
the decade in January by Morningstar Inc. He piled into Hoffman
Estates, Illinois-based Sears Holdings Corp. and American
International Group Inc. even as analysts urged investors to
dump the shares. The companies are two of the three lowest-rated
stocks in the S&P 500, with “sells” making up at least 40
percent of the recommendations, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Sears, the largest U.S. department-store chain, was the
second-biggest holding in Berkowitz’s $14.8 billion  Fairholme
Fund  as of Feb. 28. He bought more than 30 million shares of AIG
to become the largest private holder of the New York-based
insurer, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Berkowitz’s fund gained 25 percent in 2004, compared with
the S&P 500’s 9 percent return, thanks in part to MCI
Communications Corp. shares before New York-based Verizon
Communications Inc. bought the telephone company.  Fairholme  has
beaten 98 percent of its rivals in the past five years, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 “There was a time when the public could buy the most-
hated, but not-unprofitable MCI, formerly known as WorldCom, for
less than the cash the company had in the bank,” Berkowitz said
in an e-mail. “Investing is all about comparing what you give,
purchase price, versus what you get, selling price and dividends
and other potential sources of cash.”  

 
S&P 500 Stocks With Most Sell Ratings in December     YTD Change
Eastman Kodak                                            22%
Sears Holdings                                          -11%
Apartment Investment & Management                        37%
Nicor                                                   1.5%
Brown-Forman                                             12%
Robert Half International                              -6.3%
American International Group                             29%
Zions Bancorporation                                     86%
Harman International Industries                        -0.8%
Huntington Bancshares                                    66%
 
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lynn Thomasson  in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A woman walks toward the entrance of the world headquarters of Eastman Kodak Co Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Jan. 14 (Bloomberg) -- Bruce Berkowitz, head of the $11.2 billion Fairholme Fund, talks with Bloomberg's Margaret Brennan about his investment strategy.
     Berkowitz was this month named fund manager of the decade in the U.S. stock-fund category by Chicago-based research firm Morningstar Inc. The Fairholme Fund returned an average of 13 percent over the past 10 years, while the Standard & Poor's 500 Index fell an annual 1 percent. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
