-- Corporate Bond Sales Return as Swap Spreads Narrow
-- Sonja Cheung
-- 2010-06-21T15:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/bond-sales-stage-comeback-as-interest-rate-swaps-decline-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Corporate bond sales are back to
levels not seen since April as interest-rate swap spreads show
investors are gaining confidence that Europe’s debt crisis is
contained.  
 Total SA , Europe’s third-largest oil producer, and Petah
Tikvah, Israel-based Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. led
$36.1 billion of global sales last week, the most since the
period ended April 23, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Even the riskiest debt is staging a comeback, with cognac maker
 Remy Cointreau SA  raising 205 million euros ($254 million) from
the first European junk bond offering in a month.  
 Markets are moving past concern that the euro region’s
struggle with budget deficits will undermine the global economic
recovery and make it harder for borrowers to meet debt payments.
Since April 1, equity analysts have boosted their second-quarter
earnings estimates for companies in the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  to $19.72 per share from $19.11, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  
 “We could see further issuance in the next month if the
overall tone of the market stays positive,” said  Felix Freund ,
a money manager at Frankfurt-based Union Investment GmbH who
helps oversee 160 billion euros.  
 Investors put $164 million in high-yield bond funds in the
week ended June 16 after withdrawing $6.27 billion in the five
previous periods, according to EPFR Global, a Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based research firm that tracks asset allocations.  
 ‘Improved Tone’  
 “It’s a confirmation of the improved tone we’ve seen over
the last few days,” said  Martin Fridson , a global credit
strategist at BNP Paribas Asset Management in New York. “It
looks like some deals that had been talked about but put on the
back-burner will start to re-emerge.”  
 One measure of investor fear, two-year interest-rate swap
spreads, fell to 33.93 basis points today, the narrowest since
May 13 and down from 52.25 on May 24. Swap spreads reflect the
difference between the rate to exchange floating for fixed
interest payments and Treasury yields for two years.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, yield spreads for company
bonds globally ended last week at an average 196 basis points,
or 1.96 percentage points, down from 201 on June 11 and the
first decline since the period ended May 14, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
The yield on the index, which tracks 8,516 issues, is 4.1
percent.  
 “It’s likely that spreads will grind tighter on more days
than not,” JPMorgan credit strategists led by  Eric Beinstein 
said in a report dated June 18. “But the list of risks isn’t
diminishing.”  
 Credit-Default Swaps  
 Benchmark indicators of credit risk fell in the U.S. and
Europe. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or speculate on creditworthiness,
declined 4.5 basis points to a mid-price of 105.4 basis points
as of 11:48 a.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. In
London, the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of swaps on 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings fell 5.1 basis points to 112.5,
Markit prices show.  
 Both indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  
 One Bryant Place  
 Bank of America Corp.  and  JPMorgan  are marketing $650
million of 10-year securities tied to debt on a New York office
tower in the third sale of commercial-mortgage backed securities
this year.  
 The bonds are backed by mortgage payments on One Bryant
Park in midtown Manhattan, which houses the main office in the
city for Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America,
according to a person familiar with the offering who declined to
be identified because terms aren’t public.  
 The offering will bring total sales of commercial mortgage-
backed securities in 2010 to about $1.67 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The  S&P/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index , which tracks the
100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans,  rose 
0.57 cent to 88.79 cents on the dollar last week. The index has
lost 3.2 percent this quarter after  gaining  4.7 percent in the
first three months.  
 Corporate Bond Returns  
 Returns on corporate bonds as measured by the Bank of
America index average 0.19 percent this month, after losing 0.4
percent in May. The year-to-date return is 3.82 percent,
compared with a loss of 3.13 percent for the  MSCI World Index  of
stocks.  
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc plans to sell five-year bonds in
dollars, a banker involved in the transaction said today. Bank
of America and HSBC Holdings Plc are managing the note sale,
which are being sold through Shell International Finance BV, the
banker said.  
 The corporate bond market is gaining strength after sales
slumped in May to the slowest since 2003. Issuance collapsed as
investors grew concerned that budget deficits in Greece,
Portugal, Ireland, Italy and Spain would escalate into a credit
crisis reminiscent of the subprime-mortgage meltdown that pushed
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  into bankruptcy in 2008.  
 Spain’s successful 3.5 billion-euro bond auction and
European policy makers’ pledge to publish stress tests to boost
transparency in the financial industry sparked rallies in stocks
and bonds last week.  
 Markets Rally  
 The euro has strengthened 2.4 percent to $1.2399 since June
11, paring its 13.5 percent decline this year. European Union
leaders agreed to disclose how banks perform on stress tests,
seeking to show investors that the financial system can
withstand shocks.  
 “Risk appetite is slowly on the rise for all the various
risky asset classes, from equities to credit, and even the
euro,” said  Suki Mann , head of Societe Generale SA’s credit
strategy group in London, who recommends investors buy corporate
debt. “The primary market remains the preferred re-entry
point” for investors, he said.  
 PSA Peugeot Citroen, France’s largest automaker, started
selling 500 million euros of five-year bonds today to refinance
existing debt that may yield 5.75 percent to 5.875 percent,
according to a banker involved in the deal.  Volkswagen AG ,
Europe’s No. 1 carmaker, is issuing three-year bonds in euros
through Volkswagen Bank, bankers involved in the sale said.  
 Hertz Global Holdings Inc. , the world’s biggest rental-car
company said today it plans to raise 275 million euros through
an offering of senior junk bonds.  
 Total’s Offering  
 Total raised $2.5 billion in its biggest offering in
dollars, Bloomberg data show. The sale was split evenly between
3 percent notes due in 2015 that yield 110 basis points more
than Treasuries and 4.45 percent bonds due in 2020 that pay a
spread of 130 basis points. Paris-based Total sold the notes
through its Total Capital SA unit.  BP Plc , embroiled in
controversy over the worst oil leak in U.S. history, and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc  are the two biggest European energy companies by
sales.  
 Teva, the world’s biggest generic-drug maker, sold $2.5
billion of debt in a three-part sale, Bloomberg data show. The
offering consisted of 18-month floating-rate notes and two- and
five-year fixed-rate debt. Proceeds will be used to repay debt
from the 2008 acquisition of Barr Pharmaceuticals Inc. and to
help finance the purchase of Ratiopharm GmbH, Teva said in a
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 Remy Cointreau  
 U.S. corporate bond issuance rose 66 percent to $15.6
billion last week, the most in seven weeks, and sales in Europe
climbed to 10.3 billion euros from 8.4 billion euros, Bloomberg
data show.  
 “Issuance may pick up, even if it’s nothing near what we
had in March and April,” said  Sabur Moini , who manages $1.3
billion of high-yield debt at Payden & Rygel in Los Angeles.
“People are getting more comfortable that southern Europe isn’t
going to implode and maybe things aren’t as bad as people
thought in mid-May.”  
 Remy Cointreau, the maker of Remy Martin cognac and Bols
liqueur, ended a one-month drought of junk bond issuance in
Europe to sell 205 million euros of six-year bonds at a yield of
5.18 percent, Bloomberg data show. The company said it planned
to use proceeds from its first sale in more than four years to
fund a tender offer for outstanding notes.  
 High-yield, or junk, bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 Remy’s new notes climbed 0.66 cent to 98.4 cents on the
dollar just after they were issued, according to HSBC Holdings
Plc prices on Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net ;
 Sonja Cheung  in London 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Total SA and Teva Pharmaceutical led $36.1 billion of global corporate bond sales last week. Photographer: Fabrice Dimier/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
