-- BP Plans to Increase Oil Recovery Rate From Leaking Gulf of Mexico Well
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-06-20T21:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/bp-plans-to-raise-recovery-rate-from-leaking-well-after-collection-halted.html

          
          
             BP Plc  plans to increase the rate it
recovers oil from its leaking well in the Gulf of Mexico after
collection was halted yesterday.  
 BP has the capacity to recover between 26,000 barrels and
28,000 barrels of oil daily,  Robert Wine , a company spokesman,
said today. The company recovered 21,040 barrels yesterday after
the Discoverer Enterprise drillship stopped capturing oil for 10
hours because of an equipment problem and lightning storm.  
 The temporary halt in the recovery rate came as BP Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  was photographed at a U.K. yacht
race. White House Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel  criticized
Hayward, saying today on ABC’s “This Week” that it was “part
of a long line of PR gaffes and mistakes.”  
 About 11,050 barrels of oil were collected onto the
drillship and 9,990 barrels and 43.4 million cubic feet of
natural gas were burned aboard a second vessel, according to a
statement posted today on London-based BP’s  website .  
 If it’s able to recover 28,000 barrels of oil a day, BP
would be preventing between 46 and 80 percent of the oil from
entering the Gulf, based on leak estimates from a government-led
panel of 35,000 barrels to 60,000 barrels a day.  
 Hayward Travel  
 The company’s CEO returned to the U.K. this week to see his
family, Wine said. Hayward is “still very much in charge” of
BP, Wine said. BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  said on Sky
television on June 18 that Hayward was handing over control of
the spill to BP Managing Director  Robert Dudley .  
 Hayward will remain in Europe next week to meet staff,
investors and Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev , the Financial
Times reported today on its website, without citing any sources.
 Toby Odone , a company spokesman in Houston, had no immediate
comment on Hayward’s schedule.  
 The company will update the amount it’s spent on the oil-
spill response tomorrow at 7 a.m. London time, Odone said. He
declined to comment on the Financial Times report that BP will
report spending has reached $2 billion. BP said on June 14 it
had spent $1.6 billion so far.  
 The company said on  Twitter  today that it has spent $109
million on claims so far of the $20 billion it pledged to set
aside. The company has also pledged to pay $350 million to add
sand to barrier islands to protect them from oil and $100
million for a fund for oil rig workers affected by the spill.  
 ‘Worst-Case Scenario’  
 Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat,
said today a BP internal document shows the well may leak as
much as 100,000 barrels a day under a “worst-case scenario.”
That scenario would include a damaged bore and removing the
blowout preventer and wellhead, according to an e-mailed
statement from Markey’s office.  
 BP has been recovering at least 15,000 barrels a day since
June 8, with the exception of June 15, when capture was
temporarily halted because of a fire that may have been caused
by lightning.  
 The vessels are now operating at their full capacities and
BP “would like to get every drop” of oil, Wine said.  
 BP said it has recovered 249,500 barrels in total from the
well, which began leaking after an April 20 explosion aboard the
Deepwater Horizon rig.  
 Wine declined to comment on a Wall Street Journal report
today that BP hasn’t decided whether to sue  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. , a minority partner in the Macondo well. BP said June 18
that both parties are responsible for the spill, while Anadarko
said well operator BP should pay the claims related to the
damage because it was “reckless.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Q4000 vessel burns oil and gas it collects at the site of the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
