-- Brazil Defeats Ivory Coast 3-1, Reaches World Cup Last 16; Kaka Red Card
-- James Cone
-- 2010-06-20T20:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/brazil-defeats-ivory-coast-3-1-reaches-world-cup-last-16-kaka-red-card.html

          
          
             Brazil beat Ivory Coast 3-1 in
soccer’s World Cup today in Johannesburg, South Africa, to reach
the round of 16, with  Luis Fabiano  scoring twice for the record
five-time champion.  
 Elano also scored for the South Americans, who finished
with 10 men after Kaka received his second yellow card of the
game with two minutes remaining.  Didier Drogba  got the Ivory
Coast goal.  
 Brazil tops Group G with a maximum six points from two
games. Ivory Coast and Portugal have one point, with North Korea
losing its only game. Portugal plays North Korea tomorrow.  
 Brazil, the only team to appear at all 19 World Cup
tournaments, last won the title in 2002. Ivory Coast exited in
the group stage on its World Cup debut four years ago.  
 The Netherlands, in Group E, have also secured their spot
in the next round.  
 In today’s other games, defending champion Italy was held
to a 1-1 draw by New Zealand in Group F, while Paraguay won 2-0
against Slovakia.  
 In Johannesburg, Luis Fabiano collected a Kaka pass and
fired Brazil into a 25th-minute lead to end a run of six games
for his country without a goal.  
 The striker’s second goal arrived on 50 minutes, although
television replays suggested he controlled the ball with his arm
before putting it into the net.  
 A goal from Elano after 62 minutes secured the win. He was
substituted soon after with a shin injury, to be replaced by
Daniel Alves.  
 Drogba got a goal back with 11 minutes remaining, his
team’s first of this year’s competition.  
 Kaka was booked twice in four minutes near the end of the
game and will now miss at least one match.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        