-- Brazilian Six Finger Salute Sparks Bid for Sixth World Soccer Championship
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-06-20T23:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/brazilian-six-finger-salute-sparks-bid-for-sixth-world-soccer-championship.html

          
          
             Luis Fabiano  raised six fingers into
the air after opening the scoring in Brazil’s 3-1 World Cup win
over Ivory Coast that propelled it into the second round.  
 The striker, who got two goals last night, said his
celebration was aimed at his daughter, who recently celebrated a
birthday. It also corresponds to his team’s bid for a record-
extending sixth championship in South Africa. Brazil joined the
Netherlands in the round of 16 with one group game to spare.  
 “This is our target to win once again but it’s still a
long way to get there,” Brazil midfielder  Gilberto Silva  said
in an interview after the match in Johannesburg. “If we play
like we did tonight, I’m sure we can get to the final.”  
 Elano got the other goal in a victory that puts Brazil on
six points in Group G, five ahead of Ivory Coast and Portugal,
which meets last-placed North Korea in Cape Town today. Brazil
beat North Korea in its opening game on June 15.  
 A win would continue Brazil’s run of being the only team to
have won soccer’s biggest prize on every continent it’s been
played. South Africa is the first African nation to host sport’s
most watched event.  
 “The Brazilian team can go the whole way, they have
quality, they’re defending very well so it’s very difficult to
beat them,” Ivory Coast coach  Sven-Goran Eriksson  said at a
post-match press conference.  
 Brazil ended the game with 10 players after  Kaka  received a
second yellow card for elbowing substitute Kader Keita with five
minutes remaining. The South Americans earlier benefitted from
referee Stephane Lannoy failing to spot Fabiano twice
controlling the ball with his arm before his 50th minute strike
made it 2-0.  
 ‘Goal for Free’  
 “Kaka pushed him,” Eriksson said. “It didn’t look too
bad. But I think they shouldn’t complain, they got the second
goal for free and that changed everything.”  
 Fabiano, who was named man of the match, said there was
“no voluntary handball” in the buildup to a goal he described
as “one of the most spectacular of my career.”  
 Didier Drogba , making his first start of the tournament
after breaking his arm in a tune-up match, scored a 79th minute
header for the Ivorians. The Chelsea striker spoke with Kaka as
Keita lay prone on the ground. Kaka, FIFA’s world player of the
year in 2007, left the field shaking his head.  
 “He said he didn’t touch him but when I see one of my
teammates on the floor, I don’t think he went on the floor for
nothing,” Drogba said.  
 Record-tying Red  
 Kaka’s red card was Brazil’s 10th at the World Cup, tying
Argentina for the most in the event’s 80-year history. Referee
Lannoy handed out five yellow cards in a game that had to be
halted several times for foul play.  
 As well as losing Kaka for at least one match because of
suspension, Brazil has injury concerns over  Robinho , Maicon and
Elano, who was carried off with an ankle injury moments after
making it 3-0.  
 Ivory Coast captain Drogba said his team would have done
better had it tried to impose itself on the top-ranked
Brazilians.  
 “I’m not depressed,” he said in an interview. “I’m
disappointed because we could have been a bit more ambitious and
come out a little bit and created a few more problems for
them.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at Soccer City via the London newsroom at 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Brazil ended the game with 10 players  
                       
                         
                           Martin Rose/Getty Images 
                         
                         Luis Fabiano of Brazil celebrates scoring his second goal  during the 2010 FIFA World Cup South Africa Group G match between Brazil and Ivory Coast. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Luis Fabiano of Brazil celebrates scoring his second goal  during the 2010 FIFA World Cup South Africa Group G match between Brazil and Ivory Coast.  Photographer: Martin Rose/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
