-- China's Hu Buys Time at G-20 With Yuan Announcement
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-21T06:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/china-s-hu-buys-time-on-yuan-valuation-by-announcement-before-g-20-summit.html

          
          
             Chinese President  Hu Jintao  may have
succeeded in removing the yuan’s valuation from debate at this
week’s Group of 20 leaders’ summit, economists and political
analysts say. How much time he’s bought depends on how flexible
the currency will become.  
 Days before China’s central bank announced on June 19 that
the yuan’s “flexibility” would increase, officials said the
currency’s value was not a suitable item for discussion at the
G-20 meeting in Toronto. Hu will meet with President  Barack Obama  and other world leaders at the June 26-27 summit to
discuss items ranging from the global response to the European
sovereign-debt crisis to increasing the influence of developing
countries in the International Monetary Fund.  
 U.S. lawmakers threatened to thwart China’s wish to keep
the yuan off the meeting’s agenda. House Ways & Means Chairman
 Sander Levin , a Michigan Democrat, said on June 16 that China
needed to act by the end of the summit or risk U.S. legislation
which could levy penalties on Chinese imports.  
 “I think the announcement is in a sense preemptive and
will probably keep currency off the agenda at the G-20 meeting,
a well advertised Chinese goal,” said  Nicholas Lardy , a senior
fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington. “My view is that they have at a minimum bought some
time.”  
 Yuan Rises  
 China’s currency posted its biggest gain in 20 months in
the first day of trading after the announcement. The yuan rose
0.36 percent to 6.802 per dollar as of 1:45 p.m. in Hong Kong,
the biggest advance since Oct. 7, 2008, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trading System. The 12-month non-deliverable
yuan forward rose 1.4 percent to 6.6209, implying traders are
betting on a 2.7 percent appreciation.  
 Obama, in a statement, called China’s decision a
“constructive step.” U.S. lawmakers said the move was
insufficient.  
 Senator  Charles Schumer , the New York Democrat who is co-
sponsor of legislation that would allow for duties on Chinese
imports, said he was dissatisfied with a statement that didn’t
indicate the timing or amount of adjustment.  
 “We hope the Chinese will get more specific in the next
few days,” Schumer said on June 19. “If not, then for the sake
of American jobs and wealth, which are hurt every day by China’s
practices, we will have no choice but to move forward with our
legislation.”  
 ‘Concrete Actions’  
 Senator  Charles Grassley  of Iowa, the Finance Committee’s
ranking Republican, said the Obama administration and Congress
“need to keep the pressure on until China takes concrete
actions to appreciate its currency exchange rate in a meaningful
way.”  
 China’s central bank  yesterday  reaffirmed it would maintain
the yuan’s 0.5 percent daily trading band and said greater yuan
flexibility would help cut the trade surplus and reduce the
reliance on exports as a driver of growth.  
 The yuan had been held at about 6.83 to the dollar since
mid-2008. The currency appreciated 21 percent in the three years
after a peg to the dollar was scrapped in July 2005 and replaced
by a managed float against a basket of currencies including the
euro and the Japanese yen.  
 The persistent surplus has been a driving force of
Washington lawmakers’ ire. China is the second-biggest trading
partner of the U.S. after Canada and the U.S. is China’s biggest
single-country export market. Two-way trade last year amounted
to $366 billion, with China recording a $226.8 billion surplus,
according to U.S. Commerce Department data.  
 In ‘Spotlight’  
 Should the yuan resume its appreciation against the U.S.
dollar, which was suspended in July 2008 as world economic
growth slowed, then China can “avoid becoming a target in the
spotlight” at the G-20, said  Li Cheng , head of research at the
John L. Thornton China Center at the Brookings Institution in
Washington.  
 That will allow China to focus on its own agenda at the
meeting. Vice Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai  told reporters on
June 18 that China wanted to discuss new quotas for the IMF that
would boost the power of developing countries, promote the
overhaul of global financial regulations, speak out against
trade protectionism and pay more attention to economic
development in poorer countries.  
 Zhang Tao , head of the central bank’s international
department, said at the same briefing that Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis was also a high priority for discussion.  
 ‘Shifting Attention’  
 China, by moving on its currency ahead of the Toronto
summit, has shifted attention to the budget deficits of
developed nations, said  Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at the
Brookings Institution and a former head of the China division at
the International Monetary Fund. Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said June 18 that China’s fiscal debt was about 20
percent of gross domestic product. That compares with almost 100
percent in the U.S.  
 Still, Hu’s respite may be cut short if China’s trade
surplus rises and the yuan appreciates no more than 2-3 percent
against the dollar in the coming months, Lardy said.  
 Reports this month from the U.S. and China highlighted
concern that trade imbalances, which reached record levels
before the global financial crisis, may be reemerging. Chinese
exports climbed 48.5 percent in May from a year earlier. In the
first four months of the year the U.S. posted a $71.0 billion
trade deficit with China, up 5.7 percent from the year-ago
period.  
 “China could come under renewed pressure,” Lardy said.  
 -- Michael Forsythe  in Beijing, with assistance from Rebecca
Christie and  Ian Katz  in Washington and  Li Yanping  in Beijing.
Editors:  John Brinsley ,  Paul Panckhurst .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Forsythe  in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chinese President Hu Jintao will meet with world leaders at the June 26-27 Group of 20 leaders' summit. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Jim O'Neill, chief global economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., talks about China's relaxation of a two-year peg of the yuan against the dollar. 
     He speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's “The Pulse.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Nicholas Lardy, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's shift in currency policy, and its implications for the nation's economy and trade. 
     The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for  “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global strategist at TCW Group Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the impact of a change in China's currency policy.
     The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Stephen Engle reports on China's currency policy, and implications for the nation's economy and global trade.
     China’s signal of an end to the yuan’s fixed rate to the dollar may accelerate a shift toward domestic demand as the prime driver of growth as President Hu Jintao seeks to strengthen household incomes. Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Colquhoun, director at Fitch Ratings Asia-Pacific sovereign group, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for Japan's credit rating and fiscal policy.
     Colquhoun, speaking from Tokyo, also discusses China's shift in currency policy, and its implications for the nation's economy. The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Qu Hongbin, chief China economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about China's currency policy. 
     China said on June 19 it will allow a more flexible yuan, signaling an end to the currency’s two-year-old peg to the dollar a week before a Group of 20 summit in Toronto. Qu, speaking from Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for China's economy and the nation's demand for U.S. Treasuries. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Ben Simpfendorfer, chief China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Hong Kong, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about China's yuan policy.
     China’s yuan climbed the most in 18 months against the dollar after the central bank signaled it would end a two-year peg. The People’s Bank of China said on June 19 it will allow greater “flexibility.” Yesterday, it ruled out “large changes” in the exchange rate and said it will prevent “excessive” moves. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
