-- China Turns Tables on AAA Debt Time-Bomb Nations: William Pesek
-- William Pesek
-- 2010-06-20T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/china-turns-tables-on-aaa-debt-time-bomb-nations-william-pesek.html

          
          
             Your move, folks.  
 That’s the message from China’s surprise move to allow a
more flexible yuan. China, in signaling it’s okay with a rising
currency, voiced a strong vote of confidence in its economic
outlook. It also shifted the onus to the developed world in a
crafty and unambiguous way.  
 Timothy Geithner  and his team at the U.S. Treasury should
keep on ice the champagne they’re tempted to open. Now it’s
time to start getting their own imbalances in order. The debt
explosion of the past two years isn’t just unsustainable, it’s
a growing threat to global stability.  
 Chess games are won by those who can think and plan the
farthest ahead. China, at least at the moment, appears to have
a better sense of how the board is laid out. The question now
is what Geithner and his partners in history’s greatest debt
orgy do.  
 It’s wrong to conclude China was browbeaten into acting.
Yes, the step means Chinese officials can breathe easier
arriving in Toronto for next weekend’s Group of 20 meeting. Yet
a rising yuan will make it easier to tame asset bubbles and
reduce inflation risks. It also increases the purchasing power
for the nation’s 1.3 billion people. Efforts to kick China’s
addiction to exports are now underway.  
 Reflationary China  
 That will require some adjustments for the outside world.
A stronger yuan is reflationary. Chinese will, over time, be
able to buy more goods from other countries. Increased import
activity coincides with a sudden militancy among Chinese
workers demanding higher wages.  
 While good developments in the long run, both phenomena
will affect global inflation rates and require considerable
nimbleness on the part of multinational companies. The infinite
sea of cheap, docile Chinese labor is evaporating.  
 None of what China is doing will placate the  Lindsey Graham ’s and  Charles Schumer ’s of the world. Both U.S. senators
have had a linear focus on China’s undervalued currency, as if
it were the root cause of the U.S.’s problems. While China’s
role in global imbalances is indisputable, officials in Beijing
didn’t put the U.S. where it is.  
 It was the administration of  Bill Clinton  that decided to
remove Depression-era banking-system safeguards and fight
efforts to regulate derivatives. It was President  George W. Bush  who removed every financial regulation in view, squandered
a budget surplus through tax cuts for the ultra-rich and put a
pointless war in Iraq on a credit card.  
 Look in Mirror  
 China didn’t tell Americans to buy homes they couldn’t
afford. It didn’t encourage bankers to take on enough leverage
to topple Wall Street’s mightiest names. It didn’t ask the U.S
to flood global markets with Treasuries because it wanted to
own a mountain of them. China didn’t lobby against reforms that
might protect the U.S. from another financial crisis. That will
be on President  Barack Obama .  
 Now, U.S. lawmakers who thought China provided the perfect
scapegoat for all that ails their supporters need a new
boogeyman. Or, they could just look into the mirror and opt to
move the U.S. onto a more sustainable economic course.  
 This weekend’s G-20 meeting is such an opportunity. There,
China’s currency will take a backseat to the gaping budget
deficits among industrialized nations. It will be quite a
spectacle to see developing-world policy makers wagging fingers
at Group of Seven nation members.  
 Core in Crisis  
 That’s indeed where we find ourselves. The crisis of the
past two years didn’t come from the periphery of the global
economy, but its core. It’s the irresponsible policies of the
U.S., the euro zone, Japan and the U.K. that are imperiling
markets, not those of China, India or Brazil.  
 Japan is a fascinating case in point. Barely two weeks
into his premiership,  Naoto Kan  is raising many an eyebrow by
warning that Japan risks going the way of Greece. Such
hyperbole is needed to wake Japanese politicians out of their
two-decade slumber. While they snoozed and saved their jobs,
Japan amassed the biggest debt in the developed world and
failed to find an exit strategy from zero interest rates.  
 There’s been considerable soul-searching about the U.S.,
U.K. or euro zone becoming the next Japan. In many ways, other
industrialized powers wish they would be that lucky. Japan
hasn’t unraveled because its households have $15 trillion of
savings and more than 90 percent of public  debt  is held
domestically. A run on the yen was never a huge risk.  
 Folly Amid the AAAs  
 The same can’t be said about the dollar, euro or pound.
Consider why gold is up more than 30 percent over the past
year: many investors have zero trust in the most liquid
currencies.  
 Those much-coveted AAA credit ratings mean less with every
passing day as the biggest economies issue more and more IOUs.
It would be a crime if the G-20 left Toronto without exploring
how to restore trust.  
 China has much further to go in rebalancing its economy.
Letting the yuan rise indicates a new confidence to step up the
process. It also makes a mockery of rich nations demanding that
developing ones do all the heavy lifting.  
 ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        