-- China Backs Obama as Treasury Holdings Rise to $900 Billion
-- Daniel Kruger
-- 2010-06-21T11:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/china-backs-obama-with-u-s-treasury-securities-rising-3-to-900-billion.html

          
          
             A year after criticizing U.S. fiscal
policy as “irresponsible,” China’s leaders are showing
increasing confidence in President  Barack Obama’s  leadership of
the American economy.  
 China boosted holdings of  Treasury  notes and bonds by 2.6
percent to $900.2 billion in March and April, after reducing its
stake by 6.5 percent from November through February, the longest
consecutive monthly declines in a decade, U.S. data released
June 15 showed. The People’s Bank of China said June 19 that it
will relax its 23-month lock on the yuan.  
 U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer  and Congressional leaders say
the new foreign-exchange policy doesn’t go far enough to keep
them from seeking laws to punish China for what they say are
unfair trade practices. Regardless of the currency rate, China
will continue to be a net buyer of U.S. debt, according to
 George Goncalves , head of interest-rate strategy at primary
dealer Nomura Holdings Inc.  
 “It’s just bad economics to pretend we can fix the lives
of middle class American workers by getting the Chinese to
revalue its currency vis-a-vis the dollar -- it’s a horrible
misconception,”  Stephen Roach , chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia
Ltd. said in a June 15 radio interview from Hong Kong with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Surveillance.  
 Foreign Holdings  
 China’s $22.7 billion in Treasury purchases during March
and April contributed to a $205.2 billion increase in total
 foreign holdings . That was the biggest gain since $211.3 billion
in June and July of 2009.  
 Purchases in recent months have focused on longer-term
debt, unlike in 2008, when most of the cash went into Treasury
bills. China boosted its holdings by 18 percent in the 12 months
through this April, with notes and bonds due in two years or
more surging 46 percent.  
 By purchasing longer-term securities, China is helping keep
U.S. borrowing costs near record lows, aiding companies and
individuals as the U.S. economic recovery strengthens.  
 Long-term U.S. rates would be about a percentage point
higher without foreign government and central bank buyers,
according to studies done in 2006 and 2009 by Professors Francis
and  Veronica Warnock  at the University of Virginia in
Charlottesville, who researched the matter for the Federal
Reserve.  
 Falling Yields  
 Following the latest round of purchases,  yields  on 10-year
Treasuries, the benchmark for everything from corporate bonds to
mortgages, fell to 3.06 percent on May 25, the lowest since May
2009 and below the average 4.35 percent since the U.S.
government began reporting foreign holdings of U.S. financial
assets in March 2000. The 3.5 percent note due in May 2020 fell
14/32 to 101 28/32 today, pushing up the yield to 3.28 percent.  
 Treasuries  are having their best year since 2003, returning
4.51 percent through June 18, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data, as investors seek alternatives to
Europe, where Greece and Spain had their credit ratings
downgraded amid growing budget deficits. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index of shares rose 0.22 percent this year.  
 “Obviously the financial crisis, the flight to quality,
all that stuff explains this big drop in yields,” said  Dominic Konstam , head of interest-rate strategy in New York at Deutsche
Bank AG, one of the 18 primary dealers that are obligated to bid
at Treasury auctions. “That doesn’t mean they’re not having an
influence,” he said of foreign demand.  
 Slower Inflation  
 Longer-term debt is gaining in appeal as inflation slows.
The consumer price index fell 0.2 percent in May, the biggest
drop since December 2008, figures from the Labor Department on
June 17 showed.  
 Fed policy makers meet this week and will likely keep their
target rate for overnight loans between banks at a record low of
zero to 0.25 percent, according to all 91 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Treasuries due in 10 years yield 2.51 percentage
points more than the federal funds rate, compared with average
of 1.61 percentage points over the last decade.  
 Yields on U.S. corporate bonds average about 5.6 percent,
down from last year’s high of 10.3 percent, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show. That saves a company $4.7 million
in annual interest expected for every $100 million borrowed. The
rate on 30-year fixed mortgages is  4.75 percent,  near the all-
time low of 4.71 percent reached in December, according to
Freddie Mac.  
 Yuan Peg  
 China kept the yuan pegged around 6.83 per dollar since
July 2008 as it steered the world’s third-largest economy
through the global recession that followed the collapse of
credit markets starting in late 2007.  
 The decision to increase “exchange-rate flexibility” was
made after the economy improved, the central bank said in a
statement on its website, without indicating a timeframe for the
change. It ruled out a one-time revaluation, saying there is no
basis for “large-scale appreciation,” and kept the yuan’s 0.5
percent daily trading band unchanged.  
 Pressure on Chinese leaders may intensify in coming days as
finance ministers from the Group of 20 nations meet in Toronto
on June 26-27. While not singling out China by name, Obama said
in a letter to his G-20 counterparts on June 18 that “market-
determined exchange rates are essential to global economic
vitality.”  
 “This vague and limited statement of intentions is China’s
typical response to pressure,” Schumer said in a statement.
“Until there is more specific information about how quickly it
will let its currency appreciate and by how much, we can have no
good feeling that the Chinese will start playing by the rules.”  
 ‘Multilateral Trade Deficit’  
 A draft bill introduced by Schumer, a Democrat from New
York, in March would seek import duties to compensate for an
undervalued currency and impose tariffs on the second-largest
U.S. trading partner and biggest creditor. Schumer said Congress
may still vote on the legislation. China’s trade surplus with
the U.S. has increased 5.7 percent above the same period in
2009.  
 “If we don’t boost our national savings rate, with
trillion dollar deficits as far as the eye can see, the Chinese
piece of our multilateral trade deficit just goes somewhere
else,” Roach said. “It goes to a higher-cost producer and that
taxes the American people.”  
 China, which increased its holdings of Treasuries from
$58.9 billion in 2000, was critical of U.S. fiscal and monetary
policy heading into the G-20 meetings in London in April 2009.  
 The Fed’s decision to buy $300 billion of Treasuries was
called “irresponsible” by  Li Xiangyang , of the government-
backed Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, because it could
weaken the dollar. People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  urged the International Monetary Fund to work on
creating a “super-sovereign reserve currency” that would be
stable and independent of individual nations.  
 ‘Some Worries’  
 “We have lent a massive amount of capital to the United
States, and of course we are concerned about the security of our
assets,” Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in March 2009 after
Obama signed last year’s $862 billion stimulus package into law.
“To speak truthfully, I do indeed have some worries.”  
 As the Chinese were expressing concerns, bond investors
were becoming more pessimistic. Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Index data show Treasuries lost 4.5 percent during the first
half of 2009 as Obama increased the pace of borrowing to help
fund the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program and the
fiscal-stimulus package.  
 Historical Purchases  
 China has bought at least $80 billion of U.S. government
debt each year since 2005, the same year it allowed the value of
the yuan to move daily within a 0.3 percent trading band.  
 The currency appreciated 21 percent against the dollar
between July 2005 and August 2008. The yuan’s 12-month non-
deliverable forwards rose 1.1 percent to 6.6425 per dollar today
in Hong Kong, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The contracts
reflect bets the currency will appreciate 2.3 percent in the
next year.  
 “If history’s any guide they will keep buying,” Nomura’s
Goncalves said. “Global imbalances don’t turn on a dime. We
don’t know how robust this recovery is. There are only so many
places China can put its money.”  
 In five of the last six years, China has made its largest
purchases of U.S. debt in June, Treasury data show. The Treasury
is selling $108 billion in two-, five- and seven-year notes over
three days starting tomorrow.  
 “I don’t think it’s really in China’s economic interest to
distance itself from its economic ties with the U.S.,” said
 Carl Lantz , head of interest-rate strategy in New York at
primary dealer Credit Suisse Group AG. “We borrow pretty
cheaply from them, we buy their goods. Our country, despite some
of the turmoil, still offers deep and liquid capital markets.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     President Barack Obama addresses the American Nurses Association House of Delegates in Washington. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Qu Hongbin, chief China economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about China's currency policy. 
     China said on June 19 it will allow a more flexible yuan, signaling an end to the currency’s two-year-old peg to the dollar a week before a Group of 20 summit in Toronto. Qu, speaking from Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for China's economy and the nation's demand for U.S. Treasuries. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
