-- China's Stocks May Rally Tomorrow After Yuan Policy Move, CICC, SocGen Say
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-20T06:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/china-s-stocks-may-rally-tomorrow-after-yuan-policy-move-cicc-socgen-say.html

          
          
             China’s pledge to make the yuan more
flexible may boost shares denominated in the currency when
markets open tomorrow, China International Capital Corp. and
Societe Generale SA said.  
 “If it leads to appreciation for the yuan, it’s good news
for the market,”  Hao Hong , global equity strategist for CICC in
Beijing, said in a report today. “Investors will want to get
into Chinese assets because they will be worth more. It will
also deflect political criticism and help stem inflation.”  
 The People’s Bank of China said yesterday that it will
“increase the renminbi’s exchange-rate flexibility” after the
economy improved. Officials have kept the yuan, also known as
the renminbi, at about 6.83 per dollar since July 2008, aiding
the nation’s exporters and fueling tensions with trade partners.  
 A stronger yuan would aid Chinese companies by boosting
their purchasing power, while the likelihood of the currency
appreciating is an incentive for foreign investors to buy yuan-
denominated stock,  Glenn Maguire , a Hong Kong-based economist
for the French bank, said in a phone interview today.  
 “It’s probably going to be a positive for the A-share
market,” Maguire said. “It makes A-share valuations look more
attractive,” he said, declining to estimate how much shares may
gain. The local-currency A-shares rose in 2005 when China
revalued its currency, he added.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index has tumbled 23 percent this
year as the government pares stimulus measures and Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis adds to the risk of a renewed global slump.
In 2005, the benchmark, which covers both A shares and foreign-
currency B shares, rose 2.5 percent on July 22, the day after
the government revalued the currency.  
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. , Asia’s largest refiner,
said today that it would benefit from yuan gains.  
 ‘Obvious’ Result  
 “Almost all of our sales are on the domestic Chinese
market and we purchase a great deal of raw oil for processing
from overseas,” spokesman  Huang Wensheng  said by phone. “If
the ability of domestic consumers to take on higher costs
increases and the cost of our overseas purchases decreases, then
the result for us is an obvious one.”  
 CICC’s Hao expects airlines and paper producers to benefit
most from possible yuan appreciation, saying it will reduce the
cost of raw materials such as fuel oil and pulp. CICC was the
top-ranked brokerage for China research in the annual survey by
Asiamoney magazine.  
 Shares of raw-material importers such as  Sinopec , and
companies with dollar-denominated debt, such as  China Southern
Airlines Co. , gained in trading after the revaluation in 2005.  
 The situation this year isn’t entirely the same. The
central bank’s announcement yesterday that it will scrap an
effective peg to the dollar didn’t include a one-off gain for
the currency. In 2005, the yuan immediately rose 2.1 percent as
part of a policy shift.  
 The latest policy shift may support the currencies of
Taiwan, South Korea and Australia, economies closely linked to
China, over the rest of this year, Maguire said. A stronger
currency because of “gradual” appreciation will boost the
country’s purchasing power, he said.  
 -- Paul Panckhurst ,  Allen Wan . Editors:  John Liu , Allen Wan  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at +86-10-6649-7574 or  ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The likelihood of the yuan appreciating is an incentive for foreign investors to buy stock denominated in the currency. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
