-- Oil Rises for a Second Day as China's Yuan Move May Boost Purchasing Power
-- Yee Kai Pin
-- 2010-06-21T06:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/crude-oil-rises-for-a-second-day-on-signs-of-improving-fuel-demand-in-u-s-.html

          
          
             Crude rose to the highest in six
weeks on increased confidence in the global economic recovery
after China, the world’s second-largest energy consumer,
signaled an end to the yuan’s fixed rate to the dollar.  
 Oil climbed above $78 a barrel, extending last week’s 4.6
percent gain, after the People’s Bank of China indicated it’s
abandoning the yuan peg adopted during the global financial
crisis to shield exporters, a move that may boost the country’s
purchasing power. The dollar traded near a four-week low against
the euro, bolstering speculative demand for commodities,
including gold.  
 “Should the yuan appreciate against the dollar, then that
is likely bullish for oil,”  Stephen Schork , president of
consultants Schork Group Inc. in Villanova, Pennsylvania, said
in e-mailed comments. “After all, dollar-denominated oil just
got cheaper for China, which will likely boost demand.”  
 Crude for July delivery rose as much as $1.69, or 2.2
percent, to $78.87 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. That’s the highest since May 6. The
contract, which expires tomorrow, was at $78.82 at 2:34 p.m.
Singapore time. The more widely traded August contract was at
$79.87. Futures have gained 18 percent in the past year.  
 China, the world’s most populous nation and the fastest-
growing major economy,  consumes  more oil than any country except
the U.S. China’s central bank said there’s no basis for “large
scale” moves in its currency even as it pledged increased
exchange-rate flexibility.  
 ‘No Disruptions’  
 “China will control and manage its currency very well,”
said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity derivative sales manager at
Newedge Group in Tokyo. “I don’t think China will take action
rapidly but gradually, therefore there’ll be no disruptions to
the financial market. Chinese demand is still growing.”  
 The dollar fell to as low as $1.2487 against the 16-nation
euro, the weakest since May 24. It was at $1.2456 per euro at
2:35 p.m. in Singapore. The yuan climbed as much as 0.36 percent
to 6.8015 per dollar, the most in 20 months.  
 “This is only going to make imports less expensive for the
Chinese, so a bit of upward momentum from that will be a story
that will play out through a lot of markets, especially
commodities,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy
economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne.  
 Oil advanced for a second week last week as the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  rose to the highest in a month amid speculation
the U.S. economic recovery will be sustained.  
 U.S. Economy  
 All 90 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted the
Federal Reserve will hold the benchmark interest rate at a
record-low range of zero to 0.25 percent, where it has been
since December 2008. Policy makers meet tomorrow for two days.  
 “Some of the commentary that comes out in the Fed’s
statement may have an impact on markets and I think it’s more
likely than not to promote the idea that the U.S. is recovering
more strongly than previously expected,” said Westmore at
National Australia Bank.  
 Brent crude for August settlement rose as much as $1.57, or
2 percent, to $79.79 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. It was at $79.75 at 2:39 p.m. Singapore time.
The contract snapped a four-day rally on June 18, losing 46
cents, or 0.6 percent, to settle at $78.22.  
 Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their  net-long position  in New York crude futures to the highest
in three weeks, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  
 Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 32,930 contracts in the week
ended June 15, the Washington-based commission said June 18 in
its Commitments of Traders report. Net-long positions gained
15,473 contracts, or 89 percent, from a week earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        