-- Dana Gas Board to Discuss Buyback, Iraq: Week Ahead (Correct)
-- Bruce Stanley
-- 2010-06-21T14:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/dana-gas-to-discuss-buying-back-shares-iraq-with-shareholders-week-ahead.html

          
          
             
(Corrects to board meeting from annual general meeting in
headline, first paragraph)  
 Dana Gas PJSC, a United Arab
Emirates-based energy company, will discuss buying back shares
and will review its operations in the Kurdish region of Iraq and
the U.A.E. at a board meeting tomorrow.  
 Dana gained 4.8 percent, the most in more than three
months, to 66 fils on June 17 after it announced the meeting.
The company’s shares have retreated 22 percent so far this year.  
 “Finally a company has stepped up and aligned itself with
its shareholders who have endured losses,” said Sameh Hassan,
director of research at Rasmala Investment Bank Ltd. in Dubai.
The planned discussion of a possible buyback shows that “their
cash is real and that the businesses are able to self-fund, and
possibly grow, through internal rather than external means,”
Hassan said.  
 Dana, which pumps most of its gas in Egypt, is seeking to
sell stakes in its Egyptian gas blocks to raise cash. The
company is developing gas deposits, production and transport
facilities in Iraq, and it also is working on an offshore gas
project in the U.A.E. emirate of Sharjah, where it has its
headquarters.  
 Dana posted a profit of 33 million dirhams ($9 million) in
the first quarter as output and energy prices rose. This profit
compared with a loss of 32 million dirhams a year earlier.  
 Buy-back ‘Incentive’  
 The company has “a huge incentive” to buy back its
shares, given the recent slide in the value of its stock, said
Angad Rajpal, a senior analyst at Prime Securities, a brokerage
based in the U.A.E. emirate of Abu Dhabi. Dana has “unlocked a
lot of value in Egypt” and is likely to post higher earnings as
it produces more gas. The shares have retreated 43 percent since
reaching 1.18 dirhams on Oct. 14, the highest level in the past
year.  
 In Iraq, Dana Gas is a shareholder with U.A.E.-based
Crescent Petroleum Co. in a project in that country’s Kurdish
northern region. The venture, Pearl Petroleum, experienced a
delay in reaching its output target of 300 million cubic feet
(8.5 million cubic meters) a day for the first half of 2009,
Crescent said in February. A Crescent project director said at
that time that Pearl was producing 120 million cubic feet of gas
a day and did not expect to achieve its target until the third
quarter of this year.  
 Rajpal said Dana faces “an overhang” of risk in Iraq.
“It has made sales and has not received payment yet from the
government.”  
 At the same time, he said, Dana’s Iraqi venture is “very
lucrative,” and it’s a matter of time before the company
resolves issues with the Kurdish regional government in Iraq.  
 “Generally, we have a positive outlook and expect a year-
on-year gain of 20 percent in hydrocarbon production, and
improved oil prices by the end of the year,” Rajpul said.
“This will help sustain the good earnings.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Bruce Stanley in Dubai at 
 bstanley5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        