-- David Jones Faces Brand Damage as McInnes Quits Over `Unbecoming' Conduct
-- Elisabeth Behrmann
-- 2010-06-21T06:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/david-jones-faces-brand-damage-as-mciness-quits-over-unbecoming-conduct.html

          
          
             David Jones Ltd ., Australia’s
second-largest department-store operator, faces possible
damage to its brand and may struggle to retain management
after chief executive  Mark McInnes  resigned for
“unbecoming” conduct.  
 New Chief Executive Officer  Paul Zahra  has to contend
with media coverage of McInnes’s departure and “potential
negative impact on trading and damage to the David Jones
brand,”  Grant Saligari , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG,
said in a note to clients.  
 Credit Suisse downgraded the  stock  to “underperform”
from “outperform” and cut its target price to A$4.50 from
A$5.30 after McInnes, 45, quit on June 18, apologizing for
his behavior toward a female colleague. “The change in CEO
increases risk around retention of other senior management
team members,” Saligari said.  
 David Jones ’ stock had surged fourfold since 2003, when
the top job went to McInnes, who emulated the success that
overseas chains such as Bloomingdale’s had with international
designer brands. McInnes, who was often photographed with
celebrities, signed agreements with companies including  Polo
Ralph Lauren Corp . and Bottega Veneta owner  PPR SA  to lure
affluent shoppers.  
 David Jones  declined 0.4 percent to A$4.47 at the close
of trading Sydney today, extending its slide this year to 17
percent. While it dropped as much as 4.7 percent on June 18
after McInnes’s resignation, the stock traded at A$4.49, down
by 0.44 percent, by the time the market closed on that day.  
 Long-Term Direction  
 “The long-term direction of a company in retail isn’t
driven by the product but by the skill and the merchandising
and the ability of the people who lead the company -- it’s
literally a business based on choice,” said  Mark Ritson ,
associate professor of marketing at the  University of
Melbourne . “Wherever Mark goes next, as I’m sure he will in
the next 12 to 24 months, he’ll take half of the people on
his team.”  
 Zahra worked in retailing for 28 years and joined  David
Jones  in 1998 in a range of roles including supply chain
management and merchandising.  
 He was part of the team that executed McInnes’s strategy
since 2003 that saw  David Jones  focus on luring richer
clients with designer goods. The Sydney-based retailer,
founded in 1838, became the exclusive Australian department-
store outlet for brands including Ralph Lauren Home, Ted
Baker, and  PPR  labels Bottega Veneta and Yves Saint Laurent.  
 David Jones  has been the best performing retailer in the
benchmark  S&P/ASX 200  in the past seven years.  
 Cost of Business  
 In Zahra’s previous role of group general manager of
stores and operations, a key responsibility was to lower the
cost of doing business,  Craig Woolford , an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. said in a June 18 note to clients.  
 McInnes had shut the retailer’s unprofitable gourmet
food operation and cut costs for getting goods into stores.  
 Chairman  Robert Savage  said he expected the company to
suffer from the departure of McInnes. “He was seen as the
leader of the team and as a major player,” Savage told
reporters in Sydney on June 18. “Clearly, our brand suffers
as a result of this.”  
 Staff morale in an organization whose leader’s behavior
proved unacceptable may be a bigger hurdle than damage to the
company’s brand, said Fariborz Moshirian, professor of
finance at the  Australian School of Business . “It’s more the
morale and the spirit in the organization that would be
shattered rather than customers not buying anything from
 David Jones .”  
 McInnes was the subject of a complaint from a female
worker about his behavior toward her at two company events
since late May, said Savage, describing the incidents as
“regrettable.”  
 McInnes won’t receive any of his contracted incentive
payments, the company said, a sum that Savage said was worth
“several million dollars.” He’ll receive a settlement of
A$1.5 million ($1.3 million) and statutory entitlements, such
as accumulated annual leave, worth A$445,000.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       David Jones Ltd. CEO Paul Zahra  
                       
                         
                           David Jones Ltd. via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Newly appointed CEO of David Jones Ltd. Paul Zahra pose in this handout photograph provided to the media on June 21, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Newly appointed CEO of David Jones Ltd. Paul Zahra pose in this handout photograph provided to the media on June 21, 2010. Source:  David Jones Ltd. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The David Jones department store in Melbourne  
                       
                         
                           Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The David Jones Ltd. logo is displayed on the menswear building of the department store in Melbourne. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The David Jones Ltd. logo is displayed on the menswear building of the department store in Melbourne. Photographer: Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
