-- Diesel Profit Doubling Spurs Revenue Increase for Sunoco: Energy Markets
-- Paul Burkhardt
-- 2010-06-21T21:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/diesel-profit-doubling-spurs-revenue-increase-for-sunoco-energy-markets.html

          
          
             U.S. diesel demand is rising at the
fastest pace in five years as the economy expands and truckers
haul more goods, boosting profits for refiners.  
 Use of the fuel in the four weeks ended June 11 increased
12 percent from the previous year, the Energy Department said
June 16. About 9.6 percent more freight moved by road in April
than in the same period of 2009, according to the American
Trucking Association. Refiners earned $12.23 a barrel on June 18
turning crude oil into diesel and other distillates, more than
double levels of a year ago, according to futures market data.  
 “Given the trend we’re seeing, we would expect diesel
demand to contribute to a larger proportion of oil-demand
growth,” said  Costanza Jacazio , a commodities analyst at
Barclays Capital in New York.  
 Ultra-low-sulfur diesel, the grade used by trucks, dropped
1.85 cents to $2.1854 a gallon on June 18 in the New York harbor
market, trimming the 12-month gain to 17 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Crude oil has gained 8.1 percent
over the same period to $77.18 a barrel on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. Oil rose 64 cents to $77.82 a barrel today
in New York.  
 Consumption of U.S. distillates will expand 1.4 percent to
3.68 million barrels a day this year, the largest annual
increase since 2005, the Energy Department  forecast  on June 8.  
 While deliveries rose 7.8 percent in May from a year
earlier, shipments were still 20 percent below the peak in
February 2007 of 4.6 million barrels a day, according to a June
18 report from the American Petroleum Institute in Washington.
Deliveries averaged 3.7 million barrels a day last month, the
second-lowest level for May since 2003.  
 Import Gains  
 Goods arriving in containers at the ports of  Los Angeles 
and  Long Beach , California, which handle more than 40 percent of
U.S. waterborne imports, increased 18 percent in May, according
to the ports’ websites. That boosts the need for truck and rail
transport.  
 Industrial output rose 1.2 percent in May, the most since
August, the Federal Reserve said on June 16. Manufacturing in
the central Atlantic region expanded for the fourth straight
month in May, the Richmond Fed’s latest survey showed. The U.S.
economy is forecast to expand this year at the fastest pace
since 2004, according to a Bloomberg survey of 67 economists.  
 Diesel demand in the Midwest is “surprisingly solid”
after fuel use by farmers dropped at the end of the spring
planting season, said  Steve Mosby , vice president of ADMO Energy
LLC, a supply consultant in Kansas City, Missouri.  
 Farms account for about 5.2 percent of U.S. distillate
sales, Energy Department data show.  
 Midwest Pipeline  
 The Magellan Midstream Partners LP products pipeline, a
9,500-mile (15,285-kilometer) system running through the Midwest
from the Gulf Coast to northern Minnesota, has had “higher-
than-average” demand, Mosby said.  
 The rebound in fuel use comes after refiners closed plants
last year to curb production during the recession.  
 “Diesel demand and growth are intertwined, and as the
economy gains strength, diesel demand will also gain strength,”
said  Bill Day , a spokesman for San Antonio-based  Valero Energy
Corp. , the largest U.S. independent refiner.  
 The jump in consumption is likely to benefit  Valero  and
Philadelphia-based  Sunoco Inc. , the largest East Coast refiner,
while limiting supply gains in South America and Europe. About
12 percent of U.S. diesel was exported in March, almost the same
as a year earlier.  
 Sunoco Refining  
 Sunoco, which cut jobs, sold assets and shut a plant as it
lost $316 million on refining last year, said in a June 16
investor presentation that the refining segment will turn a
profit this quarter on lower costs and higher use of its
refining capacity.  
 Valero said in April it will complete work to upgrade
diesel-making hydrocrackers at Port Arthur, Texas, and Norco,
Louisiana.  
 “Distillate demand in the world is going to grow at two to
three times the rate of gasoline demand, and these hydrocrackers
are at plants where we have export capability,” Valero Chief
Executive Officer  Bill Klesse  said in an earnings conference
call with investors on April 27.  
 Zug, Switzerland-based  Petroplus Holdings AG  bought
Valero’s idled refinery in Delaware City, Delaware, and plans to
open the plant in April 2011. The company also intends to build
a high-pressure hydrotreater to produce diesel.  
 European diesel prices are rising as inventories decline,
making it more profitable for traders to buy fuel in the U.S. to
ship across the Atlantic. Ultra low-sulfur diesel for loading in
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp, Europe’s oil-trading hub, traded at
$689 a ton on June 18, up 4.8 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 Gasoil stockpiles in independent storage  fell  8 percent in
the week ended June 17 in the Amsterdam region, according to
Oosterhout, Netherlands-based consultant PJK International BV.  
 “Globally, demand has really picked up strength,” said
Jacazio at Barclays.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Burkhardt  in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Overseas Luxmar diesel tanker leaves the Port of Corpus Christi, Texas. Photographer: Eddie Seal/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
