-- Euro, Dollar Fall as China's Yuan Policy Boosts Growth Outlook
-- Oliver Biggadike
-- 2010-06-21T21:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/dollar-declines-as-end-to-yuan-peg-signals-confidence-in-global-recovery.html

          
          
             The Dollar Index rose for a second
day, erasing an earlier loss as optimism faded that China’s vow
to add more flexibility in the yuan’s fixed exchange rate would
strengthen the world’s economic recovery.  
 The greenback advanced versus 9 of its 16 most-actively
traded counterparts, including the South African rand, Norwegian
krone and Canadian dollar, as stocks fell and the euro’s slump
deepened. Foreign-exchange strategists said an appreciation of
the yuan may force consumers to cut spending on products made in
China. The Australian and New Zealand dollars pared gains that
took them to one-month highs.  
 “The euphoria of the weekend’s move with China has been
discounted pretty quickly,” said  Macneil Curry , a technical
analyst at Barclays Plc in New York. “Risk across the board is
coming under a bit of pressure here, and to a certain degree
that’s being pushed by a higher dollar.”  
 The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six major trading partners, rose 0.3 percent to 85.991
at 5 p.m. in New York. The greenback appreciated 0.6 percent to
$1.2312 per euro, from $1.2388 on June 18. Australia’s currency
gained 0.5 percent to 87.65 U.S. cents after trading almost a
full cent higher at 88.59, the strongest since May 17. New
Zealand’s dollar traded at 70.82 U.S. cents, down from today’s
high of 71.53 cents, the highest level since May 14.  
 The yen fell 0.4 percent to 91.11 per dollar, from 90.71 on
June 18, and rose 0.2 percent to 112.22 per euro, from 112.40.  
 ‘More Expensive’ Imports  
 “We’re buying our imports from China; they’re going to be
more expensive,” said  Michael Woolfolk , a managing director at
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. in New York, the world’s largest
custodial bank. “That’s inflation, that means higher interest
rates in Europe and the U.S., that means ultimately slower
growth as well.”  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index fell 0.4 percent after
earlier gaining as much as 1.2 percent. Crude oil futures for
July delivery traded at $77.35 a barrel in New York after rising
to as high as $78.92.  
 The euro dropped for a second day against the dollar,
erasing earlier gains as European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  said governments in breach of European Union
fiscal rules could face tougher punishment, including withdrawal
of voting rights. Fitch Ratings said it downgraded BNP Paribas’
long-term issuer default rating to AA- from AA. The rating
company cited a “deterioration” of the bank’s asset quality.  
 ‘Fundamental Issues’  
 “I’m not seeing or particularly hearing about people
getting into European assets because it’s too premature --
there’s still a lot of risk to the downside,” said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. in New York. “You still have a lot of fundamental issues
about what they’re going to do to help sustain growth.”  
 The euro will probably trade between $1.15 and $1.20
heading into the end of the year, Eliasson said. The currency
has fallen 14 percent this year, according to Bloomberg data.  
 The Swiss franc climbed to a record versus the euro after
the nation’s central bank softened its stance last week on
limiting the currency’s gains as the threat of deflation faded.
The Swiss National Bank said June 17 that the risk of deflation
as “largely disappeared.” The franc touched 1.3667 per euro.  
 The People’s Bank of China signaled two days ago it’s
abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted to protect
exporters during the financial crisis.  
 ‘Excessive’ Export Reliance  
 The central bank made the yuan announcement in a posting on
its website a week before leaders from the Group of 20 meet in
Toronto. It said in a follow-up statement that a more flexible
currency will “direct resources to domestic-demand driven
sectors such as services” and help curb an excessive reliance
on exports, signaling it anticipates the currency will rise.  
 The yuan has been held near the same rate since mid-2008.
It rose today as much as 0.44 percent to 6.7962 per dollar, the
steepest gain since October 2008.  
 South Korea’s won and Malaysia’s ringgit led Asian
currencies higher on optimism demand for the region’s exports
will increase. The won strengthened 2.6 percent to 1,171.95 per
dollar, and the ringgit appreciated 2.1 percent to 3.1850.  
 Colombia’s peso strengthened to a three-month high after
former Defense Minister  Juan Manuel Santos  was elected president
in a landslide victory and the central bank said it will end its
daily dollar purchases this month.  
 The peso jumped as much as 1.4 percent to touch 1,883.20
per dollar, the strongest level since March 10, before trading
at 1,893.03.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Oliver Biggadike  in New York at 
 obiggadike@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The dollar fell to $1.2413 per euro as of 8:35 a.m. in Tokyo from $1.2388 last week in New York. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Nicholas Lardy, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's shift in currency policy, and its implications for the nation's economy and trade. 
     The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for  “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Qu Hongbin, chief China economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about China's currency policy. 
     China said on June 19 it will allow a more flexible yuan, signaling an end to the currency’s two-year-old peg to the dollar a week before a Group of 20 summit in Toronto. Qu, speaking from Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for China's economy and the nation's demand for U.S. Treasuries. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
