-- Medvedev's U.S. Trip Boosts Effort to Reset Economic Ties
-- Lyubov Pronina
-- 2010-06-21T19:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/medvedev-seeks-to-reset-u-s-russia-economic-relations-on-bicoastal-visit.html

          
          
             Dmitry Medvedev  and  Barack Obama 
will try to jump-start economic links this week as Russia’s
president travels to Silicon Valley and Washington, building on
improved political ties after the U.S. “reset” relations.  
 Medvedev travels to California tomorrow to meet with
technology leaders, including  Google Inc . Chief Executive
Officer  Eric Schmidt , as he seeks to build a Russian Silicon
Valley. Medvedev goes to Washington for talks with Obama on June
24. The presidents will also meet with company bosses such as
 Jim Albaugh , CEO of  Boeing Co. ’s commercial airplane division.  
 Since Obama called for a reset in relations with Russia
last year, the countries have signed a nuclear arms reduction
treaty and agreed to increase cooperation in Afghanistan. Russia
also supported a U.S.-led proposal for sanctions against Iran.
Both the Kremlin and White House say Medvedev’s visit is a
chance to push that cooperation into the sphere of business.  
 “We’ve made progress on political and security issues of
late and now we have a chance to make a parallel progress on
some very important economic issues, an economic reset,”  Robert Hormats , U.S. undersecretary of state for economics, energy and
agriculture, said June 17 in an interview at the St. Petersburg
International Economic Forum.  
 The $18.4 billion of trade between the U.S., the world’s
biggest economy, and Russia, the largest energy exporter,
doesn’t reflect the potential relationship between the two
countries, Russian Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said.  
 Not ‘Mafia Central’  
 The U.S. is Russia’s eighth-largest  trading partner , with
crude oil, aluminum, titanium and fertilizers accounting for
more than 80 percent of the goods shipped to the U.S., according
to ministry statistics.  
 “We are interested in accelerating investment
cooperation,” Nabiullina said June 17 at the St. Petersburg
forum. “We are interested in attracting U.S.  direct investment 
for modernizing and diversifying our economy.”  
 Medvedev must convince U.S. investors they can make money
in Russia and the state will protect their interests, said  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow.  
 “He needs to leave the U.S. having firmly planted the
notion that Russia is, after all, not the mixture of Orwell’s
vision of 1984 and Mafia Central that many Americans think it
is,” Weafer said.  
 Diversifying Economy  
 The Obama administration has suggested calling this week’s
visit “a summit of innovation,” Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov 
said June 19.  
 The 44-year-old Russian president has made diversifying
away from energy exports and improving the investment climate
his primary policy goals. He named billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg 
and  Craig Barrett , former CEO of Santa Clara, California-based
Intel Corp. as co-chairmen of his plan to build a technology hub
in Skolkovo, outside Moscow.  
 U.S. technology companies will pledge to participate in the
Skolkovo project during the Silicon Valley visit, billionaire Vekselberg  said June 19 in St. Petersburg.  
 Emerging from a meeting with Medvedev in St. Petersburg,
Barrett said Intel and Chicago-based Boeing are interested in
Skolkovo. Vekselberg said talks are also underway with  Google
Inc.  of Mountain View, California,  Microsoft Corp.  of Redmond,
Washington, and Cisco Systems Inc. of San Jose, California.  
 ‘Sharpen His Resolve’  
 “I suspect he will learn something, see some good examples
there that will help to sharpen his resolve,” Barrett said of
Medvedev’s trip. “Whether that visit does something back here
in Russia I think you just have to wait and see.”  
 As Medvedev moves on to Washington, Boeing is expected to
sign an agreement to sell more than $3 billion of 737s to
Russia,  Alexander Shokhin , president of the Russian Union of
Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, said in a June 17 interview.
Shokhin heads a delegation of businessmen who will meet with
their U.S. counterparts and both presidents June 24.  
 The CEOs of energy producers OAO Gazprom and OAO Lukoil, as
well as metals companies OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel and OAO
Novolipetsk Steel will accompany Medvedev to Washington,  Arkady Dvorkovich , the president’s economy aide, told reporters today.  
 Moscow-based Russian Technologies Corp., which controls an
alliance of six domestic carriers, this month chose Boeing to
supply at least 50 narrow-body planes. Boeing will announce new
initiatives for Russia during Medvedev’s visit, Dvorkovich said.  
 Sergei Kravchenko , head of Boeing’s operations in Russia,
declined to comment on any future deals.  
 WTO Talks  
 Russia is also seeking U.S. participation in the
development and production of a heavy-lift cargo plane, an idea
Medvedev raised during Obama’s visit to Moscow last July. The
government needs funding and customers to resume production of
the Soviet-designed Antonov-124, which carries outsized cargo
for anyone from the military to pop stars.  
 The project could become “the largest cooperation effort
between the two countries since the International Space
Station,”  Alexei Fyodorov , CEO of Moscow-based United Aircraft
Corp., said in a June 16 interview.  
 The U.S. would have to lift restrictions on access to
technology for a project of this scale to succeed, said Shokhin
of the Union of Industrialists.  
 Medvedev has repeatedly said he is counting on the Obama
Administration to support Russia’s bid to join the World Trade
Organization after 17 years.  
 For a real improvement in trade prospects, the U.S. must
drop the  Jackson-Vanik  amendment, said  Mikhail Margelov ,
chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee in Russia’s upper
house of parliament. The 1974 measure, which penalized the
Soviet Union for restricting emigration of Jews, still prohibits
Russia from receiving most-favored-nation status.  
 “This amendment is somewhat anecdotal given the visa-free
regime with Israel,” Margelov said. “Its abolition should be
tied in with Russia’s entry in the WTO.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Dmitry Medvedev, Russia's president, speaking during the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
