-- Lehman Appeal Over Segregated Funds May Cut Some Creditor Payouts by 50%
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-06-21T16:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/lehman-appeal-over-segregated-funds-may-cut-some-creditor-payouts-in-half.html

          
          
             Lehman Brothers International
Europe’s unsecured creditors may see returns on billions of
dollars in claims cut in half if the failed bank’s parent
company wins a case over how funds were separated.  
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,  which is in bankruptcy in
New York, and a hedge fund asked a London appeals court today
for access to money that wasn’t protected in separate accounts
by Lehman’s U.K. unit. A lower court ruled in December that
clients who didn’t have properly-segregated funds would be
treated as unsecured creditors in the U.K. insolvency case.  
 The lawsuit features Lehman units and hedge funds in a
battle for assets of LBIE held by the company’s European
insolvency administrator,  PricewaterhouseCoopers . If the parent
company and the hedge fund win the case, the money may be taken
from the general estate of the U.K. operation, reducing returns
for other creditors, said  Arun Srivastava , a lawyer for
unsecured creditors.  
 If Lehman wins the case, the “cash available for the
unsecured creditors will be depleted and may even be
extinguished,” said Srivastava, a lawyer for Hong Leung Bank
Bhd, which is representing the unsecured creditors in the case.  
 Lehman and the hedge funds are appealing a December
judgment that criticized LBIE’s failure to segregate client
money and the U.K. Financial Services Authority for not
sufficiently overseeing the accounts. LBIE fell short of the
rules “on a truly spectacular scale,” Justice Michael Briggs
said in  the ruling . The FSA has since opened a review of client
money rules and stepped up enforcement of the issue.  
 ‘Vast Sums’  
 The rules are meant to ensure that clients’ money can’t be
used by a firm for its own purposes, and so that if it went
bankrupt, client money would be protected. According to the
judgment, LBIE failed to identify and segregate “vast sums” of
client money, most of which belonged to its affiliates.  
 In the U.S. bankruptcy case,  Barclays Plc  President  Bob Diamond  is scheduled to testify in a separate trial over the
amount the bank paid to purchase Lehman’s North American
brokerage business. Lehman claims that Barclays should pay it as
much as $11 billion for an allegedly undisclosed “windfall” on
the brokerage.  
 London was the home of Lehman’s prime brokerage business
that serviced hedge funds. PwC said it holds LBIE’s 7.3 billion
pounds of available cash.  
 LBIE’s administrators said last week it’s offering a plan
to unsecured creditors to pay out claims as early as next year
using a universal formula for valuing the claims.  
 LBIE Affiliates  
 A majority of claimants have to agree to the plan for it to
take effect, the administrators said.  
 LBIE affiliates, including the parent, Lehman Brothers Inc.
and Lehman Brothers Finance AG, have made claims of more than $3
billion, according to the December judgment. CRC Credit Fund,
which is also appealing, is seeking $76 million that should have
been put in separate accounts. LBIE held $2.16 billion in
segregated accounts when it went into administration in
September 2008.  
 Clients whose money was properly segregated, represented by
 GLG Investments Plc , will seek to protect their pool of funds to
ensure the court doesn’t decide to divide it with the clients
whose money wasn’t segregated.  
 “Everyone’s got something to argue for,” said Mez Raja, a
lawyer at CMS Cameron McKenna in London, who’s not involved in
the case. “The segregated clients are trying to protect their
level of entitlement and they don’t want that to be eroded.”  
 Client Money Entitlements  
 The FSA will also be represented at the hearing.  
 The regulator “would like their rules to be interpreted in
a way that would protect the client money entitlements,” Raja
said.  
 FSA spokeswoman  Cerris Tavinor  said the regulator isn’t
“supporting one side or the other” and would be “putting
forward our interpretation of our rules.”  
 The FSA fined  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  a record 33.3 million
pounds earlier this month for not properly segregating client
accounts, and levied two smaller fines for the same offense days
later.  
 The case is: In the matter of Lehman Brothers International
Europe, 7942/08, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        