-- Heir Steps Up Battle for Art Seized by Communist East Germany
-- Catherine Hickley
-- 2010-06-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/heir-steps-up-battle-for-art-seized-by-communist-east-germany.html

          
          
             Matthew Dietel remembers
accompanying his father, a passionate art collector, on Sunday
visits in the 1950s to the  Angermuseum  in the East German city
of Erfurt.  
 Now 62 and living near Boston, Dietel is trying to get back
some 80 objects including glass, porcelain and furniture that
belonged to his father from the museum. He argues that they were
taken illegally by the East German communist regime and he was
deprived of his inheritance. Erfurt’s city authorities are
resisting his claim.  
 “Art was my dad’s life,” Dietel said over coffee at a
wooden table in an Erfurt hotel during a visit to his home town.
“I want to leave some things for the museum, but I want some
back. It belongs to my family.”  
 The regime grew desperate for hard currency in the 1970s, a
time when the art market was booming. Spotting a chance to
replenish depleted coffers, the state tightened control of art
sales, targeting private collectors and dealers.  
 Accused of operating illegally as an art dealer, Heinz
Dietel was sent to jail in 1974. He was released six months
later without charges.  
 Security officials used his absence to take an inventory of
his collection and hit him with a tax bill for 1 million eastern
marks -- an amount he could never afford from his meager pay of
a few hundred marks a month as a graphic designer. Such tactics
were frequently adopted, according to a 1993 German
parliamentary enquiry.  
 ‘Forced Measures’  
 “It is suspected that the state organs of the German
Democratic Republic worked systematically,” the report
concluded. Citizens who refused to sell artworks “were subject
to forced measures,” it said. “The forced measures usually
took the form of accusations of violations against tax
regulations.”  
 Dietel was ordered to sell part of his collection to state
dealers who exported for western currency. He paid half the tax
bill with the revenue before his death in 1975, according to
Matthew Dietel. The rest of his collection was later sold to the
Angermuseum to cover outstanding tax debts. His son says he
never gave his permission for the sale.  
 Dietel first approached authorities in the city of Erfurt,
which owns the museum, in 2004. In January this year, the
official in charge of culture, Tamara Thierbach, told a news
conference that Erfurt wanted to reach a settlement and it
needed to know which objects he wants back.  
 Index Cards  
 Since then, the city has refused repeated requests from
Dietel’s lawyer, Ulf Bischof of  Bischof & Paetow  in Berlin, for
copies of the index cards listing the artworks that belonged to
Heinz Dietel in the museum’s collection.  
 “If we can avoid going to court, we will,” Bischof said.
“We are telling Erfurt to stand by its public announcements. We
want to get negotiations on track.”  
 In a telephone interview, Thierbach refused to comment on
the exchange of lawyers’ letters, saying only that negotiations
were “not a public process.” Thierbach is a member of the  Left
Party , which includes the former East German PDS, the successor
to East German leader  Erich Honecker’s  Socialist Unity Party.  
 “All the items in the Angermuseum are the property of the
Angermuseum,” she said. “Legal procedures are continuing.”  
 Thomas Hutt, a retired lawyer who is a member of Erfurt
city council’s culture committee representing the opposition
Christian Democratic Union, said he is disappointed with
Thierbach’s response and the length of negotiations.  
 Legal Question  
 “Mrs. Thierbach is treating this as though the East German
regime acted according to the law,” Hutt said.  
 With no index cards, Dietel doesn’t know exactly which
items from his father’s collection are in the museum. He has an
old list with brief descriptions, such as “coffee pot with
landscape painting, Limbach, 18th century,” and “walnut table,
16th century.” The collection also includes Thuringian figures
and a large quantity of glass, he said.  
 Heinz Dietel used his connections in the art world to
acquire antiques, often from private individuals, his son said.
He would take trips to the country to scour local shops.  
 “There were auctions, too,” said Matthew Dietel.
“Sometimes he would be at breakfast reading the paper and see
there was an auction on, and he wouldn’t even get dressed, he
just put on a coat and rushed out.”  
 Matthew Dietel, who sells engineering equipment for a
living, left Erfurt with his mother in 1960 for Dusseldorf. He
later moved to the U.S.  
 The Angermuseum celebrated its reopening after
reconstruction work on June 12. Dietel had hoped for an
invitation. He didn’t get one.  
 ( Catherine Hickley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Catherine Hickley  in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Matthew Dietel in front of the Angermuseum in Erfurt, Germany. The museum houses part of his father's antiques and art collection. Dietel is trying to get back some of the objects, which were seized by East German authorities after his father's death in 1975. Photographer: Catherine Hickley/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     East German art collector Heinz Dietel in his apartment in Erfurt, Germany. Dietel's son, Boston-based Matthew Dietel, is trying to get objects from his father's collection back from Erfurt's Angermuseum. Source: Matthew Dietel via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Apartment of Heinz Dietel  
                       
                         
                           Matthew Dietel via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The apartment of Heinz Dietel, an East German art collector in Erfurt, Germany. Dietel was forced to turn his art collection over to the state. Dietel's son, Boston-based Matthew Dietel, is trying to get objects from his father's collection back from Erfurt's Angermuseum. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The apartment of Heinz Dietel, an East German art collector in Erfurt, Germany. Dietel was forced to turn his art collection over to the state. Dietel's son, Boston-based Matthew Dietel, is trying to get objects from his father's collection back from Erfurt's Angermuseum. Source: Matthew Dietel via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
