-- Telefonica Vivo Bid Success May Rest With Portuguese Professor
-- Paul Tobin
-- 2010-06-21T13:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/telefonica-s-vivo-bid-success-may-rest-in-hands-of-portuguese-professor.html

          
          
             The success of  Telefonica SA ’s 6.5
billion-euro ($8.1 billion) bid for  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA ’s
stake in their Brazilian joint venture may hinge on the decision
of a university professor.  
 Antonio Menezes Cordeiro, a law professor at the University
of Lisbon, will on June 30 chair a Portugal Telecom  shareholders
meeting  on Telefonica’s offer for 50 percent in the company that
controls  Vivo Participacoes SA , Brazil’s biggest wireless
company. Investors can start voting electronically from today.  
 Menezes Cordeiro will decide if Telefonica, Portugal
Telecom’s largest shareholder, can cast a vote or whether its
stake represents a conflict of interest. Blocking the Spanish
company, which owns 10 percent, would reduce the chance of a
takeover and raise pressure on Telefonica to sweeten its offer.  
 “If Telefonica isn’t allowed to vote, it makes things much
harder,” said  Pedro Pinto Oliveira , at Oporto, Portugal-based
Banco BPI. “I don’t expect the chairman to allow Telefonica to
vote, therefore I believe it will have to raise the offer.”  
 According to Portuguese law, a shareholder can’t vote on
issues involving a “relation,” existing or to be created,
between the company and that shareholder. The law is aimed at
avoiding conflicts of interest, lawyers said.  
 Portugal Telecom, which rejected an initial 5.7 billion-
euro bid without a shareholders vote, said the revised offer
“does not reflect the strategic value of this asset for
Telefonica.”  Brasilcel NV , which owns 60 percent of Vivo, is
equally held by Telefonica and Portugal Telecom. Vivo has 30
percent of Brazil’s 179 million wireless subscriptions.  
 Telefonica’s Strategy  
 Madrid-based Telefonica, which called its first offer
“fair, full and final,” wants control of Vivo to merge it with
 Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA , or Telesp, its fixed-line unit
in Brazil. It founded the venture with Portugal Telecom in 2001.  
 Analysts including JPMorgan Cazenove’s  Daniel Morris  and
Banif Investment Bank’s  Teresa Martinho  said June 9 Telefonica
may to have raise its bid by another 500 million euros.  
 Telefonica climbed 1.8 percent to 16.49 euros as of 2:56
p.m. in Madrid, while Portugal Telecom added 0.4 percent to 8.87
euros in Lisbon. Portugal Telecom shares have gained 37 percent
since the company rejected the first offer on May 10. Telefonica
shares have added 7.5 percent in the period.  
 Menezes Cordeiro declined to comment, as did Telefonica.
Portugal Telecom said any decision on whether the Spanish
company can vote will be made by the chairman.  
 “The chairman has the power to decide as he pleases within
the limits of the law,” said Joao Caiado Guerreiro, a corporate
lawyer at Lisbon-based Franco Caiado Guerreiro e Associados. He
doesn’t expect  Telefonica  to be allowed to vote.  
 Sonaecom Bid  
 Menezes Cordeiro, 56, who has been practicing law for three
decades, allowed shareholder  Sonaecom SGPS SA  to vote at a
Portugal Telecom meeting in 2007 on a proposal to overturn
limits to shareholder rights -- effectively a takeover defense.  
 The vote came as Sonaecom made a hostile bid for the
Lisbon-based phone company. The proposal was defeated, and the
bid by  Sonaecom , which owned about 1 percent of the Portuguese
company, failed.  
 Sonaecom was allowed to vote at the 2007 meeting because,
although indirectly linked to the proposal, the vote broadly
concerned shareholders’ voting rights rather than the bid
itself, they said. About 66 percent of voting rights were
present, the largest-ever for the company.  
 For the June 30  Telefonica -bid vote, a simple majority is
sufficient and there is no quorum requirement. Between today and
June 25, shareholders can vote electronically.  
 Shareholder Structure  
 Telefonica would be voting on an offer in which it has a
direct interest, said Caiado Guerreiro. “I think there is
clearly a conflict of interests,” he said.  
 Some analysts said blocking the voting rights of the
biggest shareholder is difficult to justify.  
 “It’s hard to understand why the main shareholder of a
company cannot vote at a meeting,” said  Juan Jose Figares ,
chief analyst at Link Securities in Madrid.  
 Domestic investors of Portugal Telecom with board
representation, plus local group Controlinveste Finance
International SA, control about 26 percent of the stock.  
 Even if Telefonica is allowed to vote, it may be a close
call, Pinto Oliveira at BPI said.  
 About 36 percent of Portugal Telecom is held by Portuguese
investors, according the  company’s website . U.S. holders own 23
percent, 21 percent is owned by investors based in the U.K. and
Ireland and 19 percent by shareholders in the rest of Europe.  
 ‘Clearly No’  
 Institutional Shareholder Services, the influential group
that advises investors, recommended June 14 that Portugal
Telecom shareholders accept Telefonica’s offer. On June 18,
Proxinvest, another shareholder advisory service, recommended
that the bid be rejected.  
 In Portugal, opposition to the bid has gone beyond the
boardroom. Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  said May 27 that
Portugal Telecom’s stake in Vivo was “strategic.”  
 Portugal Telecom relies on Brazil for growth, with sales
from the South American country rising 27 percent in the first
quarter, while revenue at home fell 3.6 percent.  
 Portugal Telecom  investor  Ongoing Strategy Investments SGPS
SA, which owns a 6.8 percent stake in the Portuguese company and
has board representation, plans to vote against the offer.  
 “At this price, my answer is clearly no,” Chairman  Nuno Vasconcellos  said in an interview on June 14.  
 The price is not sufficient,  Jose Maria Espirito Santo Ricciardi , chief executive officer of Banco Espirito Santo SA’s
investment banking unit, told Diario Economico last week. Banco
Espirito Santo owns about 8 percent of the stock.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anabela Reis  in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at 
 ptobin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Portugal Telecom's mobile unit headquarters stand in Lisbon. Photographer: Vanda de Mello/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
