-- England Defender John Terry Says `No Unrest' in Team After Failing to Win
-- Christopher Elser
-- 2010-06-20T12:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/england-defender-john-terry-says-there-s-no-unrest-in-camp-at-all-.html

          
          
             England defender and former national
team captain  John Terry  said there is “no unrest at all” in
the team after it failed to win its first two World Cup matches.  
 The team tied against the U.S. and Algeria, and needs to
win the June 23 match with Slovenia to ensure it reaches the
last 16 in the tournament in South Africa. Players and fans
showed frustration after the 0-0 draw with the north Africans
two days ago.  
 The team members will meet with coach  Fabio Capello  tonight
to discuss ways to improve their performance.  
 “We need to be unified, stay together and get the win
against Slovenia,” Chelsea captain Terry said in a televised
news conference. “The game against Algeria wasn’t acceptable,
but we go into our last game knowing a win would see us top the
group and that is what is keeping us going.”  
 Players may suggest changes to the coach tonight, Terry
said.  
 “As a group of experienced players, we owe to ourselves,
our country and the manager to be honest,” Terry said. “If we
feel in that meeting tonight things need to change, everyone
needs to voice their opinion. If it upsets him or any other
player, so what?”  
 Capello is ready to quit as coach if England exits the
tournament on June 23, the People and the News of the World
newspapers reported today.  
 The Italian refused to commit to the post after the 0-0
draw against Algeria two days ago, although he is looking for
the team to respond against Slovenia to reach the last 16, the
newspapers said.  
 General manager  Franco Baldini  is already considering his
future, according to the News of the World. He has offers from
several clubs and will make a decision after the World Cup, the
newspaper said.  
 “I am here on behalf of the players and we are all fully
behind the manager,” Terry said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in Johannesburg at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        