-- Ex-Rwandan Army Chief Nyamwasa Shot at His Johannesburg Home, Police Say
-- Felly Kimenyi
-- 2010-06-20T14:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/ex-rwandan-army-chief-nyamwasa-shot-at-his-johannesburg-home-police-say.html

          
          
             Faustin Kayumba Nyamwasa, a former
Rwandan army chief in exile in South Africa, was shot in the
driveway of his Johannesburg home, police spokesman Brigadier
Govindsamy Mariemuthoo said.  
 He was returning home from shopping with his wife at about
noon in Johannesburg yesterday when he was shot in the stomach,
Mariemuthoo said in a telephone interview today. No arrests have
been made and police are investigating the incident, Mariemuthoo
said, declining further comment.  
 It was an assassination attempt on Nyamwasa because the
shooter didn’t steal or demand anything, the South African Press
Association reported, citing Nyamwasa’s wife, Rosette. Nyamwasa,
a critic of Rwandan President  Paul Kagame , is in a stable
condition at the Morningside Clinic, Sapa said. Rwanda’s
government denied any involvement in the incident.  
 Nyamwasa, who served in senior military positions between
1994 and 2003 including chief of staff for Rwanda’s army and
coordinator of the nation’s security services, was part
of the Rwandan Patriotic Front that toppled the government and
stopped the massacre of 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus in
Rwanda in 1994.  
 “The government of Rwanda does not condone violence,”
Foreign Minister Louise Mushikiwabo said in an e-mailed
statement today, adding the government has no confirmation or
details of the incident. “We wish the family strength and
serenity. We trust in the ability of South African authorities
to investigate the incident thoroughly.”  
 Nyamwasa served as Rwanda’s high commissioner to India
until he fled to South Africa with his family in February amid
accusations that he was behind a series of deadly grenade
attacks in Kigali, the capital. Nyamwasa has denied the
allegations as attempts to stop his efforts against government
corruption.  
 Kagame, 52, who has ruled the East African nation since the
end of 1994 genocide, said on May 11 that he expects his party
to win the presidential election in August because of its role
in the political and economic development of the country.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vernon Wessels  in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net ;
 Felly Kimenyi  in Kigali via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        