-- Failed AAA Rated Rembrandt on Wall Street Spurs Opacity Outcry
-- James Sterngold
-- 2010-06-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/failed-aaa-rated-rembrandt-from-wall-street-spurring-outrage-over-opacity.html

          
          
             Corowa Shire , home to  Australia ’s
biggest hog farm and a three-hour drive from Melbourne, couldn’t
be farther from  Wall Street .  
 That didn’t stop the local council, which represents about
11,000 people, from investing A$1 million ($878,900) in one of
the most esoteric inventions cooked up by the financial
industry, a constant proportion debt obligation, or  CPDO , with
the catchy name “Rembrandt.” The top-rated note, linked to
credit-default swaps on investment-grade companies, lost 93
percent of its value in two years.  
 “How do you have an AAA rated instrument go belly up as
quickly as that one did?” asks Ian Rich, director of corporate
services for the council, which is suing its financial adviser,
Local Government Financial Services Pty, over the losses.
“We’re very straightforward now in our investments. We’re
really only investing in term deposits with major banks.”  
 Wall Street’s penchant for concocting opaque products --
investments that lacked real-time pricing data and were so
complex they could only be created and analyzed using computer
models -- played an important role in the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression and one that regulatory reform
proposals will struggle to curtail. While banks say they’re
meeting demand from investors for higher returns, critics say
it’s time to rein in instruments that confuse buyers, carry
hidden risks and whose main purpose is generating fees.  
 ‘Bewilderment Machine’  
 “I don’t think it’s the job of the financial community to
bewilder its clients,” said Nicholas Brady, 80, who served as
U.S. Treasury Secretary under former President George H.W. Bush.
“They were making so much money they just wanted to keep the
bewilderment machine churning.”  
 A community like Corowa never had a chance of understanding
what it bought. Even if it had a model, “you really had to
spend months and months playing with it and understanding
exactly all of the moving parts to be able to see where the
failings were,” said David Watts, a London-based strategist at
CreditSights Inc. who was an early skeptic about the notes.  
 Over the last decade the financial industry justified the
rapid growth in products such as CPDOs, collateralized debt
obligations and credit-default swaps by arguing that they were
sold to qualified investors who understood the risks and were
able to bear them. Their view was echoed in July 1998 Senate
testimony by then-Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, who
said that “regulation of derivatives transactions that are
privately negotiated by professionals is unnecessary.”  
 Citigroup, AIG  
 A decade later his assessment was proven wrong when some of
the industry’s most sophisticated participants, including  Citigroup Inc . and  American International Group Inc ., were
bailed out of bad bets on contracts whose risks they
underestimated. By using government funds and cutting  interest
rates , politicians and central bankers laid the cost on
taxpayers, savers and people living on fixed incomes.  
 The damage from opaque, complex products extended to
communities and schools, such as Alabama’s Jefferson County and
Harvard University, which paid hundreds of millions of dollars
to cancel interest-rate swaps. The early 2008 collapse of the
$330 billion market for auction-rate securities, products that
were touted as safe, cash-like investments, led to losses for
investors including the state of Hawaii.  
 New Rules  
 Now the U.S. Congress and policy makers around the world
are considering ways to make the financial system safer. New
rules aim to force privately negotiated derivatives -- contracts
whose value is tied to securities or specific events such as
changes in interest rates or the weather -- onto exchanges or
clearinghouses, where investors will have more information about
prices. Banks would also be required to hold more capital
against instruments deemed too complicated to trade openly.  
 The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority and the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  are considering proposals that would limit the risks
from some complex products, as well as curb their growth.  
 The stakes for Wall Street are high. Its profit growth in
recent decades has depended on an ability to devise new and
increasingly opaque products.  
 As competition and technology eroded margins from selling
stocks and bonds, the outstanding notional value of over-the-
counter derivatives climbed to $614.7 trillion at the end of
2009 from $88.2 trillion 10 years earlier, according to the Bank
for International Settlements. That’s more than seven times the
notional amount of exchange-traded futures and options
outstanding, BIS data show, and more than 10 times the world’s
annual gross domestic product.  
 Over the same period, financial-industry profits in the
U.S. surged to $414.1 billion, or 36 percent of all domestic
corporate profits, from $224.9 billion, or 29 percent, according
to U.S. Commerce Department data.  
 ‘Exotic Instruments’  
 “The more complex, generally speaking, the more profit
there’s going to be for the derivatives dealer,”  Warren Buffett , the billionaire investor who controls Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., told the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission on
June 2. As contracts like interest-rate swaps became commonplace
and profit margins eroded, banks “embedded more exotic
instruments, and that’s where the money was,” Buffett said.  
 One of those exotic instruments, a synthetic collateralized
debt obligation known as Abacus, is at the center of a lawsuit
brought by the SEC against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . Unlike
regular CDOs, created by pooling bonds, loans or asset-backed
securities whose cash flows derive from payments on mortgages or
other types of debt, synthetic CDOs package credit-default
swaps, which are themselves derivative side bets on the value of
debt instead of the debt itself.  
 Misleading Investors  
 The government suit alleges New York-based Goldman Sachs
misled investors by failing to tell them a hedge fund that
planned to bet on the deal’s failure had played a role in
selecting the underlying swaps. Goldman Sachs has called the
case unfounded, saying that the buyers were sophisticated
investors capable of analyzing the contracts independently.  
 Trading stocks listed on exchanges was once a lucrative
business for Wall Street. That changed on May 1, 1975, when
regulators abolished fixed commissions and opened the markets to
price competition. The move accelerated brokers’ efforts to
create more complicated, less commoditized investments.  
 One avenue was through private placements, a way for
companies to raise funds by selling unregistered securities to
accredited buyers with limited disclosure.  
 Rule 144a  
 Private placements were first permitted under the
 Securities Act of 1933 . In 1990, the SEC adopted  Rule 144a  to
make offerings more appealing to qualified institutional buyers,
known as  QIBs , who had more than $100 million in assets, by
eliminating a two-year holding period.  
 The SEC also passed Regulation S that year, permitting
firms to sell securities to foreign buyers without registering
them in the U.S. Goldman Sachs’s Abacus CDO was offered to  Germany ’s  IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG  under Regulation S and
to New York-based ACA Management LLC under Rule 144a.  
 “There was a feeling that the commission had been tight-
fisted with the rules before then and that the markets were
sophisticated enough for people to analyze these private
offerings,” said David Martin, a partner at Covington & Burling
LLP in  Washington  and head of the SEC’s corporate finance
division from 2000 to 2002.  
 Junk Bonds, CDOs  
 Rule 144a and Regulation S opened the door to a
proliferation of products traded outside public exchanges,
including junk bonds and asset-backed securities. Global sales
of asset-backed securities, including bonds linked to mortgages,
commercial real estate loans and CDOs, climbed to more than
$2.68 trillion in 2006 from $51.5 billion in 1990, according to
data compiled by trade magazine Asset-Backed Alert.  
 By 2000, CDOs backed by corporate loans and junk bonds,
almost all of them done as private placements, were a fast-
growing segment of the asset-backed securities market. Global
issuance of all types of CDOs jumped to a peak of $482 billion
in 2006 from $5.7 billion in 1995, the magazine’s data show.  
 When the economy soured in 2001, one company that took a
hit was  American Express Co .’s financial advisers unit, which
was later spun off to become  Ameriprise Financial Inc . It
recognized about $1 billion in pretax losses in the first half
of the year from junk bonds and CDOs made up of junk bonds.  
 “What you’re seeing now in the Abacus transaction is
similar to what happened in junk bonds and the CBO and CLO
market,” said Satyajit Das, a Sydney-based former derivatives
banker at Citigroup and Merrill Lynch & Co. and author of
“Traders, Guns & Money,” referring to CDOs backed by bonds or
loans. Those losses “should have given people an inkling that
maybe this was a little more complicated than people thought.”  
 13 Boxes, 14 Arrows  
 Instead, Wall Street created more complicated products,
such as CDOs that bundled pieces of other CDOs or credit-default
swaps. In the case of Abacus, the pool was made up of credit-
default swaps on 90 residential mortgage-backed securities with
the second-lowest investment-grade rating, according to a
Goldman Sachs sales document. Each of the 90 securities
contained thousands of loans and was described in a prospectus
that ran hundreds of pages. A one-page diagram of the structure
in the document showed 13 boxes connected by 14 arrows.  
 Goldman Sachs, the most profitable securities firm in Wall
Street history, is also being sued by Australian hedge-fund
company Basis Capital over another synthetic CDO known as
Timberwolf bought by its Basis Yield Alpha Fund (Master). Basis
says that Goldman Sachs benefited from the market’s opacity and
that the investment bank, whose internal e-mails showed an
executive called the deal “shi**y” the same week Basis was
completing its purchase, hoped to profit from a bet against it.  
 ‘Little Ability’  
 “Because Timberwolf and similar CDOs were not publicly
traded and were illiquid, BYAFM had little ability to obtain
information about prevailing prices” for the deal, the fund’s
complaint says. “In contrast, Goldman, because of its market
position, was uniquely knowledgeable not only about Timberwolf
but about the market for CDOs in general.”  
 Goldman Sachs said in a statement on June 9 that Basis made
its investment at market levels it deemed attractive, that the
fund had agreed not to place any reliance on Goldman Sachs and
that Goldman Sachs had itself lost “several hundred million
dollars” on Timberwolf securities.  
 Investors were tempted into such purchases because they
promised the same low risk as owning high-quality debt like U.S.
government bonds with better returns. That enabled fund managers
to beat AAA rated benchmark indexes, said Das, who began his
financial industry career in 1977.  
 ‘Beat the Index’  
 “If you’re going to sell somebody any structure -- I
learned this 25 years ago -- you don’t really need to talk about
the product,” Das said. “You simply need to say, ‘Your index
is this, and if you do this over the next quarter or two
quarters, you’re going to beat the index by X.’”  
 It wasn’t only the clients who couldn’t resist the promise
of boosting returns without adding risk. Financial companies
including Citigroup, Merrill Lynch and Zurich-based  UBS AG  also
lost billions after buying and holding onto the AAA rated
portions of CDO debt.  
 The bets soured when mortgage-backed securities underlying
the deals declined in value after defaults on subprime home
loans made to unqualified borrowers prompted downgrades of the
debt. Only a few market participants saw the trouble brewing,
including Goldman Sachs, whose executives began looking for ways
to bet against securities tied to subprime debt in late 2006.  
 “Banks should be limited in how many of each instrument
they’re allowed to trade,” said Paul Wilmott, a London-based
author and quantitative-finance instructor who has also been a
critic of the industry’s over-reliance on mathematics and
statistics. “Otherwise it’s dangerous, and it’s not just
dangerous to your bank and your clients, it’s dangerous to
innocent people as well.”  
 Rembrandt CPDO  
 That’s what residents of Corowa Shire discovered after
their local council bought Rembrandt CPDO notes in November 2006
that were issued by ABN Amro Holding NV, a Dutch bank later
split up and sold to banks including Edinburgh-based Royal Bank
of Scotland Plc. The deal helped lead to RBS’s collapse and
takeover by the U.K. government.  
 ABN Amro created the first CPDO earlier that year, an AAA
rated note called Surf yielding twice the rate of other bonds
that were barely investment grade. It did this by selling
credit-default swaps on two indexes of 250 North American and
European companies with investment-grade ratings. Credit-default
swaps act like insurance because the seller collects premiums in
exchange for promising to pay the buyer if the reference
securities, in this case corporate bonds underlying the index,
suffer losses or a default.  
 AAA Rated Notes  
 CPDOs were allowed to sell protection on bonds with a value
of up to 15 times the cash in the investment pool. Leverage was
adjusted depending on the performance of the underlying swaps,
and companies with deteriorating ratings were purged from the
index every six months.  
 The Rembrandt CPDO offered investors AAA rated notes that
paid 1.9 percentage points above Australia’s three-month bank-
bill swap rate, or about 8.25 percent at the time, according to
a suit brought by 10 councils in Australia’s federal court
against Local Government Financial Services, which manages money
for towns in New South Wales.  
 Rich, 48, who oversees Corowa’s $14 million in investments,
said he depended on LGFS for all of his information about
Rembrandt. LGFS is suing ABN Amro and ratings company  Standard &
Poor’s , asserting that it was misled. LGFS Chief Executive
Officer Peter Lambert didn’t respond to an e-mailed message.  
 All But Worthless  
 ABN Amro, in a defense document received by the court on
June 2, denies it engaged in any misleading or deceptive conduct
and says LGFS had “sole responsibility” for determining
whether the Rembrandt notes were appropriate investments. Paul Nicols, a partner at law firm Allens Arthur Robinson in Sydney
who is representing ABN Amro, declined to comment on the case.  
 Frank Briamonte, a spokesman for McGraw-Hill Cos., which
owns S&P, said the claim is “without legal or factual merit,
and we will defend ourselves vigorously against it.”  
 The Dutch bank wasn’t alone in selling CPDOs. From 2006 to
2007, firms including UBS,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. created their own notes, selling more
than $4 billion of them to investors in six currencies,
according to data compiled by CreditSights.  
 By the end of 2008, the securities were all but worthless.
Banks,  hedge funds , insurance companies and other fixed-income
asset managers rushed to buy default protection through the
derivatives indexes underlying the CPDOs, sending the cost of
the indexes to record highs and deflating the value of the
notes. The Australian councils that bought Rembrandt received
less than 7 cents on the dollar after the value fell to a level
that triggered an unwinding of the deal to prevent a total loss,
according to the lawsuit.  
 ‘Not Informed’  
 The councils “were not informed that the proceeds of the
notes would become the subject of a complex derivatives
contract, whereby ABN Amro London would use the proceeds of the
notes to take a notional position against a portfolio of credit-
default swap indexes,” said Amanda Banton, a partner at law
firm Piper Alderman in Sydney, which represents the councils.  
 CPDOs were the “most egregious example of this wave of
financial innovation, but it’s different in degree not really in
kind,” said Frank Partnoy, a professor at the University of San
Diego School of Law and a former derivatives trader and author
of “Infectious Greed: How Deceit and Risk Corrupted the
Financial Markets.”  
 “Most financial innovations benefit Wall Street banks, not
the ultimate savers or borrowers,” he said.  
 Derivatives Reform  
 U.S. lawmakers will this week continue negotiating over
reform legislation that aims to prevent a future financial
calamity, including limiting the risks created by complex, hard-
to-value instruments.  
 Lenders, with the exception of some mortgage providers, may
be forced to hold a stake in asset-backed securities or CDOs
that they offer to investors. That would lead them to suffer
losses along with clients when products lose value.  
 The legislation also would bring most of the over-the-
counter derivatives market under regulation for the first time,
requiring the most actively traded contracts to be moved through
central clearinghouses and traded over regulated platforms that
would increase price transparency.  
 For derivatives that are too complex to be cleared,
regulators will require dealers and major market participants to
hold “substantially higher” capital against the trades,
according to a bill approved by the Senate that’s now being
reconciled with one passed by the House of Representatives.  
 Too Many Exemptions  
 Still, Stephen Cecchetti, a former Federal Reserve official
now head of the monetary and economic department at the Bank for
International Settlements in Basel, Switzerland, warned in a
June 16 speech in  New York  against allowing too many exemptions.  
 “The argument typically advanced in favor of non-
standardized OTC derivatives is that markets need tailored
hedging tools,” Cecchetti said. “I would argue, however, that
one can design standardized contracts for nearly all risk types
and that standardized contracts are very good hedging tools.”  
 Another move toward greater transparency was the SEC’s
approval in February of a proposal by the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, the self-regulatory industry group known
as Finra, to end an exemption that allowed asset-backed
securities to trade without reporting prices to Trace, which
publishes corporate bond trades. Starting next February, traders
must report prices, though Finra won’t decide whether to make
them public until it has studied the data,  Finra said .  
 Basel Rules  
 Revised bank capital guidelines agreed to by the  Basel
committee  last year, which could be implemented by the end of
2011, will increase how much capital banks must hold against
securitized assets, especially those that repackage the assets.  
 “It’s going to severely deter that whole business,” said
David Kelly, a former counterparty credit-risk manager at
Citigroup who is now director of credit-product development at
derivatives-valuation firm Quantifi Inc. in New Jersey.  
 Some industry veterans doubt that the proposed laws and
regulations will make a significant difference. Richard Breeden,
who led the SEC from 1989 to 1993 when Rule 144a was issued,
said at a conference in Washington last week that new rules
won’t matter unless regulators gain the courage to make banks
smaller and less profitable. Alan “Ace” Greenberg, the 82-
year-old former chairman of Bear Stearns Cos. who is now a vice
chairman emeritus at JPMorgan, told an audience at New York’s
92nd Street Y last week that he doesn’t expect regulation to
damage the industry.  
 ‘Little Cancers’  
 “I really don’t,” said Greenberg, who has worked on Wall
Street since 1949. “Regulation never hurt our business.”  
 While CPDOs survived only briefly, other types of complex
products continue to thrive after the financial crisis. One area
that’s still growing is structured products, registered
securities that combine features of bonds and derivatives and
are sold in small, illiquid batches, often to retail investors.  
 Sales of structured products to U.S. retail investors may
set a record this year, with $21.5 billion sold through June 8,
according to StructuredRetailProducts.com, a database used by
the industry. Sales fell to $33.9 billion last year after
peaking at $37.6 billion in 2008.  
 “Even investors that got burned are back buying these
things,” said Marilyn Cohen, president of Envision Capital
Management in  Los Angeles , who manages $270 million in fixed-
income assets. “They’re like little cancers in finance.”  
 Proponents of the notes argue that they’re registered
securities with full disclosure to investors and that they offer
buyers tailored bets that they couldn’t get elsewhere. And while
many of the notes are sold to retail investors, others are
limited to institutional buyers.  
 Contag Beta  
 One example of a structured note sold to an institutional
investor is JPMorgan’s May 10 sale of $150 million of one-year
 notes  whose returns are linked to an algorithmic trading system
for commodity futures known as the J.P. Morgan’s Contag Beta
Alternate Benchmark Class A Excess Return Index. The index
measures hypothetical returns achieved by using a set of rules
for trading in and out of 19 commodity-futures contracts.  
   Justin Perras , a spokesman for JPMorgan in New York,
declined to comment.  
 “There are a lot of unanalyzable financial products --
including some stocks -- but it’s ultimately the responsibility
of the end-user investor to understand, or retain someone who
understands, what they own,” said  Orin Kramer , general partner
of hedge fund Boston Provident Partners LP, who is on leave from
his role as chairman of New Jersey’s Investment Council, which
oversees the state’s pension fund.  
 John C. Bogle, the 81-year-old founder of the Vanguard
Group of mutual funds who has argued for tougher financial
oversight, said investors have been fooled into believing they
benefit from Wall Street innovations rather than bear the cost.  
 “The financial system subtracts value from society,” said
Bogle. “Wall Street represents a cost that takes away from the
proven long-term returns available in the market. That’s the
reality.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
James Sterngold in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        