-- Fiat Battles `Jeep Jinx' With New Grand Cherokee
-- Jeff Green
-- 2010-06-21T09:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/fiat-counts-on-beating-jeep-jinx-to-make-grand-cherokee-lead-turnaround.html

          
          
             With its new Jeep Grand Cherokee,
 Fiat SpA  faces a challenge that has bedeviled all of Jeep’s
previous corporate masters: how to appeal to mainstream drivers
without alienating off-road enthusiasts.  
 Fiat , which acquired Jeep after taking a controlling stake
in Chrysler Group last year, wants to make the brand
sufficiently middle-of-the-road to sell 800,000 vehicles a year
worldwide by 2014, up 61 percent from 2008.  
 The 2011 Grand Cherokee, which began shipping yesterday,
features luxury touches -- leather seats, interior wood trim --
and can drive in 20 inches of water without stalling.  
 “The Grand Cherokee is a sign we’re moving toward a
broader appeal,”  Mike Manley , head of the Jeep brand and
Chrysler’s international operations, said in an interview.  
 The redesigned Jeep is the first major new model Chrysler
has introduced since  Fiat  took control and is crucial to the
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based company’s turnaround plans.  
 “Jeep is arguably one of the most important brands for the
company because of its global appeal, and Grand Cherokee is the
Jeep that makes them the most money,” said  Rebecca Lindland , an
analyst at  IHS Global Insight Inc.  in Lexington, Massachusetts.
“This is a company that is coming out of a major surgery and
every setback is a threat to survival. This is really, really
important that they get it right.”  
 Frustrated  
 The new Grand Cherokee has 4 inches of extra leg room in
the rear and 17 percent more cargo space than the previous
version, which was last redesigned for the 2005 model year. The
vehicle has onboard television and converts into a Wi-Fi hot
spot. It starts at $30,995, about $500 cheaper than its
predecessor. The priciest version costs $42,995.  
 Jeep has frustrated a string of owners since its 1941 debut
as an all-purpose vehicle for the U.S. Army -- something  Richard Truesdell , a self-styled Jeep historian and editorial director
of the Automotive Traveler website, calls the “Jeep jinx.”  
 From inventor  Willys-Overland Motors  through Kaiser Jeep,
American Motors Corp.,  Renault SA , Chrysler Corp.,
DaimlerChrysler AG, Cerberus Capital Management LP and now Fiat,
each new landlord tried, with varying degrees of success, to
break out of the rut dug by the original military model.  
 Over the years, Jeep’s stewards churned out convertibles,
pickups, work trucks, delivery models and about 20 precursors to
the Grand Cherokee, starting with a 1946 wagon.  
 ‘People Complain’  
 “Anytime Jeep tries to move away from its roots, people
complain,” said Patrick Foster, who wrote the 1998 book “The
Story of Jeep.” “People didn’t complain that  Toyota  moved away
from its car roots when it made SUVs.”  
 Jeep sales peaked in the U.S. at 554,466 in 1999, a year
after  Daimler AG  acquired Chrysler and released a new Grand
Cherokee. Last year, sales fell to 231,710 as Chrysler went
through the $12.5 billion, U.S.-backed bankruptcy that left Fiat
in control. Jeep sold about 300,000 Grand Cherokees in 1999 and
50,328 in 2009, according to forecaster IHS Global Insight.  
 Jeep’s previous owners failed to anticipate the stampede to
carlike SUVs such as  Honda Motor Co. ’s Pilot and  Ford Motor
Co.’s  Escape, said Dennis Pietrowski, managing director of RDA
Group, a market researcher in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan.  
 Fiat  rose  as much as 28.5 cents, or 3 percent, to 9.74
euros in Milan and traded at 9.65 euros as of 11:56 a.m.,
valuing the Turin, Italy-based carmaker at 11.4 billion euros
($14.1 billion).  
 Jeep defectors cite low fuel economy and rough ride and
handling when explaining their decision to move on, he said.  
 Quality Woes  
 Quality also hurts Jeep’s ability to compete with luxury
models from  Toyota Motor Corp.’s  Lexus or Honda’s Acura,
Pietrowski said. Jeep placed 27th out of 33 brands in J.D. Power
and Associates’ ranking of initial quality released last week.  
 The challenge is to make sure the latest iteration stands
out in a group of rival SUVs that now includes about 20 models,
Jeep chief Manley said.  
 Jeep designers included a system that allows Grand Cherokee
owners to raise and lower the suspension. With the touch of a
switch, the SUV can achieve 10.7 inches of ground clearance and
then can be lowered again for highway driving, Manley said.  
 To help the  Grand Cherokee  compete with such luxury models
as the Lexus RX 350, the vehicle has been equipped with improved
suspension and handling.  
 Chrysler wants to make Jeep the “No. 1 SUV brand again,”
Manley said, and is determined not to let the Grand Cherokee
become a “niche” vehicle.  
 International Presence  
 Jeep should spend less time worrying about evoking its
design heritage and more on turning heads, Foster said.  
 “The purists say it’s got to have heritage and all this
baloney, so they keep rehashing the old designs,” said Foster,
who also sold Jeeps from 1979 to 1985. Jeep needs to take more
risks, as it did with the original Cherokee, he said.  
 If the new Grand Cherokee sells better than its most recent
predecessor that may be largely because  Fiat  has an
international presence, Truesdell said.  
 “There’s a better chance of success with Fiat,” he said.
“There’s nothing in their brand portfolio like Jeep. The thing
working in Jeep’s favor is that Fiat is a global brand and can
expand sales opportunities.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The redesigned Jeep is the first major new model Chrysler has introduced since Fiat took control. Photographer: Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
