-- Flexible Yuan Unlikely to Lead to GCC Dollar Peg Shift, Economists Say
-- Camilla Hall
-- 2010-06-20T12:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/flexible-yuan-unlikely-to-lead-to-change-in-gualf-arab-peg-economists-say.html

          
          
             China’s decision to allow a more
flexible yuan, which may signal an end to the currency’s dollar
peg, is unlikely to prompt Gulf Arab states to drop their dollar
links, economists said.  
 “There’s no pressure on the pegs right now,”  Farouk Soussa , Citigroup Inc’s chief economist for the Middle East,
said in a telephone interview. “The only time the peg really
comes under pressure is when the monetary cycles are out of
kilter and we’re not in that place right now.”  
 China’s central bank said yesterday it will allow a more
flexible yuan. Gulf Arab states, five of which peg their
currencies to the dollar, came under pressure to revalue two
years ago as inflation accelerated to records and the dollar
weakened. Inflation has since slowed. Gulf states rely on oil
exports priced in dollars for a majority of their revenue.  
 “I don’t sense there is appetite for change anywhere in
the region right now,” said  Simon Williams , a Dubai-based
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc.  
 Gulf central banks reduced interest rates to encourage
lending and stimulate the economy during the financial crisis,
often following the U.S. Federal Reserve. Saudi Arabia, the
largest Arab economy, is unlikely to see “sharp” inflationary
pressures, the central bank said May 26.  
 “We see no direct impetus for any policy moves in the GCC
in the near term,”  Soussa  said. “Over the next six months
however we do expect that conversation to become more prominent
if inflationary pressures gather momentum in the GCC.”  
 Saudi Inflation  
 Inflation in Saudi Arabia accelerated to a year’s high of
5.4 percent in May.  
 “If the economic conditions in our region change and the
diversification of our economies change significantly from oil
and another regime proves to be better for us, I can assure you
we will not hesitate,” Saudi Central Bank Governor  Muhammad al- Jasser  said in a Jan. 24 interview. “So it’s not like there’s a
dogmatic attachment to the dollar. It just happens to be very
helpful to us.”  
 U.A.E. central bank Governor  Sultan bin Nasser al-Suwaidi 
said in a March 15 interview that “it’s not in the best
interest of the U.A.E. to even think about moving away from the
U.S. dollar peg.”  
 The GCC is a six member economic and political bloc that
includes Saudi Arabia, the U.A.E, Qatar, Bahrain, Oman and
Kuwait. Kuwait is the only member to link its currency to a
basket.  
 “Why add extra volatility to your business model?”  Mark McFarland , emerging markets economist at Dubai-based Emirates
NBD PJSC said in a telephone interview. China’s announcement has
had little impact on swaps and currency trades in the region, he
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Nicholas Lardy, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's shift in currency policy, and its implications for the nation's economy and trade. 
     The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for  “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Stephen Engle reports on China's currency policy, and implications for the nation's economy and global trade.
     China’s signal of an end to the yuan’s fixed rate to the dollar may accelerate a shift toward domestic demand as the prime driver of growth as President Hu Jintao seeks to strengthen household incomes. Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global strategist at TCW Group Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the impact of a change in China's currency policy.
     The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Colquhoun, director at Fitch Ratings Asia-Pacific sovereign group, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for Japan's credit rating and fiscal policy.
     Colquhoun, speaking from Tokyo, also discusses China's shift in currency policy, and its implications for the nation's economy. The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
