-- France's World Cup Squad Quarrels as England Team Holds Crisis Meeting
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-06-20T22:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/france-s-world-cup-squad-implodes-as-england-team-holds-crisis-meeting.html

          
          
             The World Cup struggles of the
English and French soccer teams extend beyond the soccer pitch,
where both are winless heading into the final group games.  
 France’s squad declined to appear for training yesterday,
hours after striker  Nicolas Anelka  was sent home following a
dispute with coach  Raymond Domenech . England players were to
meet last night with coach  Fabio Capello  to discuss why the team
has failed to win either of its matches.  
 “All the players in the French squad without exception
wish to affirm their opposition to the decision taken by the
French Football Federation to exclude Nicolas Anelka,” the
French team said in a statement, after they refused to take part
in a public training session in Knysna, near Cape Town.  
 Anelka was ejected from the camp for refusing to apologize
to Domenech after arguing with the coach at halftime in the
team’s 2-0 loss to Mexico on June 17. The players’ refusal to
train led the team’s liaison officer, Jean-Louis Valentin, to
quit with immediate effect.  
 “I am ashamed, I am leaving immediately for Paris,”
Valentin told reporters. “What has happened is a scandal for
the federation, for the French team and for the whole country.
They do not want to train, it is unacceptable.”  
 The French team had been under scrutiny before the World
Cup, after former captain  Laurent Blanc  was appointed to replace
Domenech before the start of the tournament. The 1998 world
champion scraped into the finals with a playoff victory over
Ireland that was earned after striker  Thierry Henry  admitted to
handling the ball to set up the decisive goal.  
 The French Football Federation said it will investigate the
team’s actions after the end of France’s participation in the
tournament.  
 Crisis  
 “The FFF, speaking through its president, apologizes for
the unacceptable conduct of the players that are representing
our country,” according to a statement last night on its
website. “A federal council shall be convened immediately on
the completion of the French team’s campaign to draw all the
conclusions of the crisis that has been created.”  
 If Mexico and Uruguay draw in their final group match on
tomorrow, France, which faces host South Africa on the same day,
will be eliminated.  
 England Woes  
 While England’s problems haven’t been played out in the
public spotlight, U.K. newspapers have reported disharmony in
the camp.  
 Defender  John Terry  said there was “no unrest at all” at
a televised news conference yesterday. Even so, striker  Wayne Rooney  was forced to apologize after mouthing criticism toward
England fans who jeered the team off the pitch following a 0-0
draw with Algeria three days ago.  
 Capello, who is paid 6 million pounds ($8.9 million) a year
by England’s Football Association, said after the match that
players were unrecognizable from the ones who topped their
qualifying pool.  
 “We need to be unified, stay together,” Terry said. “The
game against Algeria wasn’t acceptable, but we go into our last
game knowing a win would see us top the group and that is what
is keeping us going.”  
 Capello is ready to quit as coach if England exits the
tournament after group play, the People and the News of the
World newspapers reported yesterday.  
 The Italian refused to commit to the post after the 0-0
draw against Algeria, although he is looking for the team to
respond against Slovenia to reach the last 16, the newspapers
said.  
 General manager  Franco Baldini  is already considering his
future, according to the News of the World. He has offers from
several clubs and will make a decision after the World Cup, the
newspaper said.  
 “I am here on behalf of the players and we are all fully
behind the manager,” Terry said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Johannesburg at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     France's captain Patrice Evra (C) meets with teammates after a clash with coach Raymond Domenech (not pictured) before the start of training session at the Fields of Dreams stadium in Knysna. Photographer: Franck Fife/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     France's national football team wait in their bus in Knysna on June 20, 2010. Photographer: Franck Fife/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
