-- Gates Says UN Sanctions Effort May Deter Iran From Nuclear Weapons Program
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2010-06-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/gates-says-un-effort-has-real-potential-to-deter-iran-s-nuclear-program.html

          
          
             U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
said United Nations sanctions against Iran when combined with
other efforts have “real potential” to deter the country from
developing nuclear weapons.  
 “I think that it could add to the pressures on the
regime” in combination with unilateral U.S. sanctions and
efforts to improve the defenses of Persian Gulf allies, Gates
said yesterday on “Fox News Sunday.”  
 Sanctions and other policies “have a reasonable chance of
getting the Iranian regime finally to come to their senses and
realize their security is probably more endangered by going
forward than stopping” the nuclear program, Gates said.  
 UN sanctions adopted June 9 by the Security Council include
restrictions on financial transactions with Iran, a tighter arms
embargo and authority to seize cargo linked with nuclear or
missile programs.  
 The sanctions are the fourth round against Iran in the UN
Security Council’s effort to curb Iran’s nuclear development,
which the U.S. and many of its allies say may be intended for
weapons development. Iran says the work is necessary for
civilian purposes, such as power generation.  
 Iran’s current regime may be more vulnerable to pressure
because it’s a “narrower-based government,” with “many of the
religious figures being moved aside,” Gates said.  
 The U.S. strategy toward Iran’s nuclear program isn’t one
of containment, Gates said.  
 Aimed at Prevention  
 “I don’t think that we’re prepared to even talk about
containing a nuclear Iran,’ he said. “We do not accept the idea
of Iran having nuclear weapons and our policies and our efforts
are all aimed at preventing that from happening.”  
 “We have some time to continue working this problem,”
Gates said, while noting “all options are on the table” in
U.S. dealings with Iran, including military strikes.  
 Referring to Afghanistan, Gates reiterated statements that
the “narrative is perhaps overly negative, in part, because
it’s incomplete.”  
 Gates, in  testimony  to the Senate panel with Joint Chiefs
of Staff Chairman Admiral  Mike Mullen,  attempted last week to
dispel lawmakers’ doubts the U.S. military is making progress in
Afghanistan.  
 Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Senator  Diane Feinstein  said on CNN’s State of the Union program that
“failure is not an option” in Afghanistan.  
 Track and Kill  
 “Either the Taliban becomes a force for good, participates
in government, or it has to be defeated,” she said.  
 Feinstein said she is closely monitoring the U.S.
military’s effort to track and kill top Taliban leaders. “I
think that’s moving along.”  
 For the first time since 2003, the U.S. has more troops in
Afghanistan than in Iraq, 91,000 compared with 85,000. The U.S.
is on schedule with its plan to reduce its force in Iraq to
about 50,000 troops by the end of August, Gates told the Senate
panel.  
 Most of the 30,000 additional forces President  Barack Obama 
authorized last year for Afghanistan as part of a surge of
forces are in the country. The remainder, less than 10,000, are
scheduled to arrive in the next two months.  
 Even as the surge continues “there’s a rush to judgment
that loses sight of the fact we are still in the middle of
getting all the right components into place and giving us a
little time to have this work,” Gates said yesterday.  
 Taliban Stronghold  
 Gates acknowledged that progress to lay the groundwork for
an offensive in the Taliban stronghold of Kandahar is “somewhat
slower than anticipated.”  
 “It’s a tough pull and we are suffering significant
casualties. We expected that,” Gates said.  
 Still, “people are losing context,” Gates said. “This
strategy has been in place and working for only about four or
five months. We have yet to put a third of the surge forces into
Afghanistan.”  
 The U.S. and 45 partner nations plan to eventually have a
total of almost 150,000 troops deployed in Afghanistan this
year.  
 Gates on Fox dismissed the notion that the U.S. will start
withdrawing “large” numbers of troops in July 2011.  
 The Obama administration in its surge of 30,000 troops said
some number of U.S. troops starting that month would withdraw
from the most peaceful among Afghanistan’s 34 provinces. That is
planned as increased numbers of Afghan Security Forces complete
training to lead operations.  
 Afghan Withdrawal Date  
 White House Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel  said on the ABC
News “This Week” program that the July 2011 start was “not
moving. That’s not changing. Everybody agreed on that date.”  
 “For the first time in eight years, nine years” the
Afghan government is “actually meeting their police recruitment
requirements as well as their army recruitment requirements,”
Emanuel said. The size and scope of the initial withdrawals will
be “based on conditions on the ground.”  
 The July 2011 date gives all parties -- the U.S., NATO, the
Afghan people -- a “sense of urgency,” he said.  
 UN Secretary General  Ban Ki-Moon  in his latest quarterly
 report  on Afghanistan released June 19 said the overall security
situation hasn’t improved since his last report three months
ago. The number of violent incidents had “increased
significantly compared to previous years and contrary to
seasonal trends,” according to the report.  
 The increase stemmed from a rise in U.S. and NATO military
operations in southern Afghanistan and “significant anti-
government activities in the southeast and eastern regions,”
the report said.  
 The most “alarming trend” was a 94 percent increase in
the number of roadside bombings during the first four months of
this year compared with the same period in 2009, the report
said. Another disturbing trend was a 45 percent rise over the
same period in 2009 of assassinations against Afghan civilians
and civil servants in the south, according to the UN report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. secretary of defense Robert Gates. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
