-- Gilt Sales to Decline 28% Next Year as Osborne Tames Deficit, Dealers Say
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-06-21T11:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/gilt-sales-to-decline-28-next-year-as-osborne-tames-deficit-dealers-say.html

          
          
             U.K. gilt sales may fall 28 percent
this fiscal year as Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
cuts spending to reduce the budget deficit and safeguard the
nation’s top credit rating.  
 The government will issue 165 billion pounds ($246 billion)
of  gilts  in the year ending March 31, down from 185.2 billion
pounds projected in April and last year’s record 227.6 billion,
a Bloomberg survey of 15 bond trading firms that deal with the
debt agency shows. Osborne will present his emergency budget on
June 22, the first since the Conservative-Liberal Democrat
coalition came to power last month.  
 The Chancellor is set to outline the deepest spending cuts
since the 1970s to rein in the deficit, which amounts to 11.1
percent of gross domestic product, the biggest among the Group
of Seven nations. Britain faces a “formidable” fiscal
challenge and needs to accelerate plans to scale back spending,
Fitch Ratings said on June 8. Osborne announced an initial 6
billion pounds of reductions on May 24.  
 “There is no doubt this government is serious about
cutting the deficit,” said  John Wraith , a London-based U.K.
fixed-income strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, one of
the Gilt Edged Market Makers, or GEMMs. “We expect gilt
issuance to fall.”  
 All the 15 primary dealers in the survey expect Britain to
retain its top AAA rating in the next 12 months. Estimates of
gilt issuance range from Royal Bank of Canada’s forecast for
156.9 billion pounds to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s estimate of 185
billion pounds.  
 Post-Election Outperformance  
 U.K. government bonds outperformed both their U.S. and
German counterparts following the May 6 election that ousted
former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown ’s Labour Party after 13 years
in power. Gilts returned 1.9 percent, compared with a gain of 1
percent for Treasuries and German bonds, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Indexes.  
 Gilt issuance swelled in the previous fiscal year as the
global recession prompted Brown’s government to fund stimulus
programs when tax revenue slid. Britain has a bigger budget hole
than the previous government forecast, the country’s fiscal
watchdog said in an initial report on June 14.  
 Cyclically adjusted net borrowing, a figure that shows the
part of the deficit not linked to the state of the economy, is
forecast to fall to 2.8 percent of GDP by April 2015, from 8
percent this year, instead of the 2.5 percent predicted by the
Treasury in March, the Office for Budget Responsibility said.
The economy will also expand more slowly than forecast, it said.  
 ‘Rule of Thumb’  
 “The issue here is when these measures will be
implemented,” Bank of America’s Wraith said of Osborne’s budget
plan. “There’s concern in the market, which I share, that if
they get carried away too early, they could end up doing more
harm than good by putting the economic recovery at risk.”  
 Osborne said yesterday that it remains a “good rule of
thumb” that spending cuts account for 80 percent of the fiscal
consolidation and that tax increases make up 20 percent.  
 The budget office, which provides forecasts that are
independent from the government, forecast on May 14 that GDP
will rise 2.6 percent next year, instead of the 3.25 percent
predicted by Labour in March. Former Bank of England policy
maker  Alan Budd  and his colleagues at the agency will release
revised forecasts on June 22 to account for budget measures.  
 U.K. GDP may expand 1.2 percent this year, according to the
median estimate of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. It may
grow 2.25 percent in 2011, according to the median of 14
estimates of analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Fiscal Challenge  
 “It’s all about making choices,” said  Sam Hill , a fixed-
income strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in London. “The
choice that George Osborne has taken is to err on the side of
satisfying investors and gaining their confidence, and accepting
that the cost of that is probably the growth rate in the near
term. That should be positive for gilts.”  
 Fitch said on June 8 that the scale of the country’s fiscal
challenge is “formidable.” Standard & Poor’s affirmed its
“negative” outlook on the U.K. on March 29 “in the absence of
a strong fiscal consolidation plan.” Prime Minister David
Cameron has warned that the squeeze will “affect every single
person in our country.”  
 U.K. bonds have rallied even as public finances worsened
amid the perception that gilts are relatively safer than debt in
the euro region as the sovereign-debt crisis has deepened.  
 Yields Drop  
 “A downgrade is unlikely given the new government appears
to be tackling the problem and demonstrating commitment,” said
 Pavan Wadhwa , head of European interest-rate strategy at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London. The “primary deficit is large
but not dissimilar to the U.S., where there appears to be less
focus on this issue. But any signs of slippage in fiscal
tightening in the future could prompt a rating change.”  
 The yield on the 4.75 percent bond maturing in March 2020
rose 2 basis points to 3.52 percent as of 12:10 p.m. in London.
Benchmark 10-year  gilt rates  have dropped 91 basis points since
the last day of September 2008, the month Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed.  
 During the same period, the yield on Germany’s 10-year  bund 
fell 126 basis points to 2.76 percent, while the 10-year U.S.
Treasury  note  yield slid 54 basis points to 3.28 percent.  
 Issuance Forecasts for fiscal 2010/2011 by Gilt-Edged Market
Makers (in billions of pounds):  

 
Median Forecast:                        165

Royal Bank of Canada                    156.9
Citigroup Inc.                          161
Royal Bank of Scotland                  161
HSBC Holdings Plc                       162.3
Nomura International Plc                164.8
BNP Paribas SA                          165
Jefferies International Ltd.            165
Toronto-Dominion Bank                   165
Credit Suisse Group AG                  167
Barclays Capital                        168.2
Morgan Stanley                          174.8
Bank of America Merrill Lynch           175
UBS AG                                  180
Deutsche Bank AG                        181
JPMorgan Chase & Co.                    185

     Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Winterflood Securities Ltd.
didn’t participate in the survey.
 
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne speaks at Mansion House in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- David Blanchflower, professor of economics at Dartmouth College, talks about the outlook for U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne's first budget and the government's fiscal policy.
     He speaks with Mark Gilbert and Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
