-- Tiger Woods Shoots 66, Trails Dustin Johnson by Five Shots at U.S. Open
-- Michael Buteau
-- 2010-06-20T04:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/tiger-woods-shoots-66-trails-dustin-johnson-by-five-shots-at-u-s-open.html

          
          
             Tiger Woods  thrust himself back
into contention at golf’s U.S. Open yesterday by matching
the lowest score of the tournament, a 5-under-par 66 that
left him five shots off the lead entering the final round.  
 Woods birdied eight of his final 15 holes, including
three straight to end the round at Pebble Beach Golf Links
in California, to get to 1-under par. He’s one of three
golfers below par, trailing fellow American  Dustin Johnson 
(-6) and Northern Ireland’s  Graeme McDowell  (-3).  
 Winless since returning to golf after his admission of
marital infidelity, the three-time U.S. Open champion
vaulted to third place from 25th yesterday. Woods birdied
five of the final nine holes, once again hearing roars from
the crowd and displaying his celebratory fist pump.  
 “It’s been a while,” Woods said. “I hadn’t played
good enough for anyone to cheer for anything. It was nice
to actually put it together on the back nine and put myself
right back in the championship. Everyone was so excited and
fired up; it was a great atmosphere to play in front of.”  
 Woods and Johnson were both 5 under yesterday to match
 Phil Mickelson ’s second-round 66 for the lowest score at
this year’s second major championship.  
 Mickelson followed up with a 2-over 73 yesterday, when
the left-hander started with consecutive bogeys, was forced
to hit a chip right-handed en route to a double-bogey and
closed with a penalty on the 18th hole. He’s in sixth place
at 1 over.  
 “I’m quite a few shots back. Probably more than I
thought I would be,” said Mickelson, a five-time U.S. Open
runner-up. “But anything can happen on Sunday and if you
make a move you can make up a lot of ground.”  
 Johnson’s Eagle  
 Johnson, 25, surged to the top of the leaderboard with
two birdies and an eagle in a four-hole stretch yesterday.
He eagled the 284-yard, par-4 fourth hole after reaching
the green with his tee shot. Johnson finished his round
with consecutive birdies, including a putt of about 30 feet
on the par-3 17th, to build a three-shot cushion over
McDowell, who made bogeys at the 16th and 17th holes.  
 Johnson has had previous success on the Monterey
Peninsula. Two of his three U.S. PGA Tour wins came at the
Pebble Beach Pro-Am, in 2009 and 2010.  
 “I really like playing here,” said Johnson, who tied
for 40th and 48th in his previous U.S. Open appearances the
past two years. “Nothing is going to change with the game
plan.”  
 Woods will be paired with France’s Gregory Havret in
today’s second-to-last group behind Johnson and McDowell.
Havret is even par, along with two-time U.S. Open winner
 Ernie Els  of South Africa. Woods will tee off at 2:05 p.m.
local time -- 5:05 p.m. on the East Coast.  
 Prime-Time Golf  
 Most of today’s final round will be televised during
prime time in the New York area, the U.S.’s largest media
market, and having Woods back in contention could prove to
be the best news golf has had since his win at the 2008
U.S. Open at Torrey Pines, according to  Brad Adgate ,
research director at Horizon Media, a New York-based
advertising company.  
 “If anyone is happier than Tiger, it’s NBC Sports,”
Adgate said in an e-mail interview, referring to the
tournament’s fourth-round U.S. broadcaster. “His climb up
the leaderboard should boost ratings for the final round.”  
 Woods’s win at Torrey Pines, where he beat  Rocco Mediate  in a 19-hole playoff, produced the highest U.S.
Open ratings since his previous win at Bethpage Black
course in New York in 2002. The 2008 tournament marked the
first time the U.S. Open was aired in prime time.  
 Tiger’s Rally  
 The largest 36-hole deficit Woods has overcome to win
a major was six strokes at the 2005 Masters. He started
yesterday’s third round seven shots out of the lead and
dropped nine back with his early bogeys.  
 Woods recovered with three straight birdies on holes
4, 5 and 6 before making a bogey at the eighth hole.  
 Woods then shot 31 on the back nine, dropping birdie
putts on the 11th and 13th holes and adding three more to
finish his round. He gave a fist pump after his birdie putt
on the par-4 16th hole dropped. Woods again brought the
fans to their feet at the par-3 17th, where he pointed to
the sky after his curling 12-foot putt from the fringe fell
into the cup.  
 On the par-5 18th, Woods hit 3-wood for his second
shot from about 260 yards away, then hopped to his left to
get a better view around a tree, put his hands on his knees
and shouted at his ball to get on the green. It stopped
about 15 feet from the flag and Woods tapped in for birdie
after just missing his eagle attempt.  
 ‘Nine-Hole Stretch’  
 “All the Opens that I’ve won, I’ve had one stretch of
nine holes,” Woods said. “It doesn’t have to be on a back
nine or a front nine, just a nine-hole stretch where you
put it together. I got myself back in the championship.”  
 The last tournament Woods won when trailing after 54
holes was the 2009 Memorial, where he shot a final-round 65
to overcome a four-stroke deficit and beat  Jim Furyk  by
one.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in Pebble Beach, California, at 
   matuszewski@bloomberg.net 
 Michael Buteau  in Pebble Beach, California, at 
   mbuteau@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        