-- Indian Life Insurers May Invest $25 Billion in Shares, SMC Capitals Says
-- Abhishek Shanker
-- 2010-06-20T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/indian-life-insurers-may-invest-25-billion-in-shares-smc-capitals-says.html

          
          
             India’s decision to allow life
insurers to offer unit-linked plans, coupled with a state share-
sale program, may raise investments in stocks by these companies
to $25 billion this fiscal year, SMC Capitals Ltd. said.  
 The increase of as much as 48 percent in these investments
will mainly come from the primary market and from buying shares
in public offerings of state-owned companies, said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist at New Delhi-based SMC Capitals.
His estimate is 19 percent higher than the average of $21
billion for the fiscal year starting April 1 by ICICI Prudential
Insurance Co., Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co., SBI Life and
Birla Sun Life Insurance Co.  
 “The new law will help the insurance companies sell
equity-linked products aggressively and in turn they will invest
a larger sum in the stock market,” Thunuguntla said in a phone
interview yesterday. “The insurance regulator may come out with
a new set of guidelines to ensure more transparency in the unit-
linked products.”  
 India, which changed the rule on unit-linked plans on June
18, has formed a committee to sort out jurisdiction issues
between the Securities & Exchange Board of India and the
Insurance Regulatory Development Authority, the country’s two
financial regulators, the Press Information Bureau said in an e-
mailed statement on June 19.  
 Unit-linked products are insurance plans sold by life
insurers that invest the money collected into equity and debt
markets.  
 Barred  
 The Security Exchange Board, which regulates the Indian
stock market, on April 9 barred 14 life insurers from selling
the products, saying they were like mutual-fund plans and were
sold without obtaining the equity-market regulator’s approval.
The insurance regulator on April 10 countered the ban. The
regulators asked the court to rule on the issue.  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  wants to raise 400 billion
rupees ($8.7 billion) in the year ending March 31 selling shares
in one state-run company almost every month. The government said
in January it may sell shares in 60 companies to shrink its
budget deficit to 5.5 percent of gross domestic product this
fiscal year from 6.9 percent last year.  
 “There will be no takers for mutual funds because they
won’t be sold and Indian investors will be flooded with unit-
linked insurance products as they have very high incentives for
the agents,”  Dhirendra Kumar , managing director of Value
Research Ltd., a company that tracks Indian mutual funds, said
in a phone interview from New Delhi yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        