-- Iran Hangs Sunni Muslim Rebel Leader for `Enmity to God', Ties to Israel
-- Ladane Nasseri
-- 2010-06-20T16:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/iran-hangs-sunni-muslim-rebel-leader-caught-in-february-state-tv-says.html

          
          
             Iranian Sunni Muslim rebel leader
 Abdolmalek Rigi  was executed today after being convicted of
“enmity toward God” and ties to the U.S. and Israel, state
television reported.  
 “Rigi was hanged this morning in prison following the
decision of the Tehran revolutionary tribunal,” the report
 said , four months after his arrest. Iran, a mostly Shiite Muslim
nation, uses the term “enemy of God” for those who commit
major crimes against the Islamic Republic. He was also convicted
of 79 other offenses, including armed attacks and murder, the
report said.  
 Iranian authorities say Rigi’s group, Jundallah, Arabic for
“soldiers of God,” has been responsible for several deadly
attacks in the nation’s southeast. In February, 28, Rigi was
shown in custody on state television confessing that the group
received financial and logistical support from the U.S., which
Iran’s leaders consider a foe.  
 Interior Minister  Mostafa Mohammad-Najjar  said Rigi, an
Iranian citizen, was captured in February as he attempted to fly
from Dubai to Kyrgyzstan. His execution today came about a month
after his detained brother, Abdolhamid, was hanged for his
involvement with Jundallah.  
 Rigi was 28 and founded Jundallah about a decade ago, the
group  said  today on its website. He was born in the southeastern
city of Zahedan and “from his childhood felt strongly about
being martyred on the path to justice,” the statement said.  
 Pakistani Border  
 Iran has said the U.S. and the U.K. support Jundallah to
help promote an insurgency by ethnic minorities to destabilize
the Islamic regime. Rigi’s crimes also included “ties to
members of foreign intelligence services, including members from
U.S. and the Zionist regime’s intelligence services under the
cover of NATO,” the television report said, citing the court
statement. The U.S. and Britain deny involvement with the group.  
 Jundallah, which is based along Pakistan’s border with
southeastern Iran, says it aims to fight for “the freedom of
the Baluchi people and the Sunnis” and to secure the minority
groups’ rights, according to its website. Iran is about 90
percent Shiite.  
 Baluchis, who are Sunni Muslim, live in the Sunni-dominated
Sistan-Baluchistan province, which also borders Afghanistan. The
province is one of Iran’s poorest and has experienced political
unrest and several attacks on military officials.  
 New Leader  
 Jundallah has designated a new leader, Haj Mohammad Zaher
Baluch, who is already known by his followers as “the second
Abdolmalek,” the group said today in its  statement .  
 The Islamic “establishment has only caught one Abdolmalek
and cannot stop the hundreds and thousands of others,” the
statement said. “The fighters throughout Baluchistan will
continue their struggle.”  
 Jundallah has said it bombed a mosque in Zahedan, the
capital of Sistan-Baluchistan, in May last year. The attack
killed at least 21 people and injured about 200. The group also
claimed responsibility for the February 2007 bombing of a bus in
Zahedan that killed 11 civilian employees of the Revolutionary
Guards Corps, which is responsible for security in the province.  
 More recently, in October, Jundallah was involved in a
suicide bombing that killed at least 29 people in Sistan-
Baluchistan, including several of the Guards’ senior officers,
the Iranian government says.  
 Besides conflicts between rival political movements,
Sistan-Baluchistan’s instability is also deepened by organized
crime, as Zahedan is a main entry point for opium and heroin
from Afghanistan.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        