-- Brazil Advances to Last 16 at World Cup; Italy Is Held 1-1 by New Zealand
-- James Cone
-- 2010-06-20T22:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/italy-held-to-1-1-tie-by-new-zealand-s-all-whites-paraguay-leads-group.html

          
          
             Brazil beat Ivory Coast 3-1 to
advance to the round of 16 at the World Cup, while defending
champion Italy was held to a 1-1 tie by New Zealand and Paraguay
defeated Slovakia 2-0.  
 Luis Fabiano  scored twice for record five-time winner
Brazil in Johannesburg last night with Elano also getting a goal
for the South Americans, who finished with 10 men after  Kaka  was
red-carded.  Didier Drogba  got the Ivory Coast goal.  
 “Congratulations to Brazil, they are strong,” Ivory Coast
coach  Sven-Goran Eriksson  said at a news conference. “If you do
a mistake against them they are very quick to punish you.”  
 Brazil tops Group G with a maximum six points from two
games. Ivory Coast and Portugal have one point, with North Korea
losing its only match. Portugal plays North Korea today.  
 Brazil last won the title in 2002. Ivory Coast exited in
the group stage on its World Cup debut four years ago. The
Netherlands, in Group E, are the only other team to have secured
a spot in the next round.  
 Italy, which is aiming to match Brazil on five titles,
needed a penalty kick from  Vincenzo Iaquinta  to tie its game in
Nelspruit. Shane Smeltz gave New Zealand an early lead.  
 Paraguay tops Group F on four points through two matches,
Italy and New Zealand have two each, and Slovakia has one.  
 In Johannesburg, man of the match Luis Fabiano collected
Kaka’s pass and fired Brazil into a 25th-minute lead. The
striker’s second goal arrived on 50 minutes, although television
replays showed he controlled the ball with his arm.  
 Handball Denied  
 “I heard Brazil complain a lot, but I think they should
feel very lucky,” Eriksson said. “It’s difficult to cope with
Fabiano already, and even more if he uses his hands.”  
 Fabiano denied deliberately handling, saying the ball hit
his arm.  
 “There was no voluntary handball, so it was a legitimate
goal and one of the most spectacular of my career,” he said.
“It was an involuntary handball and a magnificent goal.”  
 A goal from Elano after 62 minutes secured the win. He was
substituted soon after with a shin injury. Drogba, wearing a
protective cast after breaking an arm in a warm-up game, got a
goal back with 11 minutes remaining.  
 Kaka was booked twice in four minutes near the end and will
miss at least one match for his red card. The second yellow was
for elbowing the chest of Kader Keita, who fell to the floor
clutching his face.  
 “The beautiful game has to be controlled, and when the
referee allows certain incidents to go unpunished that’s not
right,” Brazil coach  Carlos Dunga  said. “It was a totally
unjustified sending off of Kaka. He was fouled and he was
punished for it and given a yellow card.”  
 Italy Shocked  
 In Italy’s game, Smeltz gave New Zealand a shock lead from
close range in the seventh minute, following up a Simon Elliott
free kick as  Fabio Cannavaro  was unable to clear.  
 Italy’s chances mainly came from long-range shots, with
Riccardo Montolivo only denied by a post on 27 minutes.  
 A penalty kick, awarded after Tommy Smith held  Daniele De Rossi , gave Italy an opportunity after 29 minutes. Iaquinta
placed his kick into the bottom right corner as goalkeeper Mark
Paston dived the other way.  
 Italy continued to press, although New Zealand substitute
Chris Wood came close to sealing an upset win as he shrugged off
a defender before firing a low shot across the face of the goal
in the 88th minute.  
 “It was the hardest work that we’ve ever put in,” New
Zealand captain  Ryan Nelsen  told reporters.  
 Italy, the world’s fifth-ranked team, started with three
draws when it collected the title in 1982. That was the year of
New Zealand’s only previous World Cup appearance.  
 ‘Uphill Battle’  
 New Zealand’s All Whites, No. 78 in the rankings of
soccer’s governing body FIFA, only earned a first-ever World Cup
point in a 1-1 draw against Slovakia on June 15.  
 “We didn’t have much luck but we didn’t play a great
game,” Italy coach  Marcello Lippi  told reporters. “Starting in
such a way gave us an uphill battle.”  
 Goals from Enrique Vera and Cristian Riveros in
Bloemfontein secured the win for Paraguay, which is attempting
to reach the round of 16 for a fourth time.  
 Vera got the opener in the 27th minute, finishing with the
outside of his right boot after collecting a pass from Lucas
Barrios.  
 Paraguay had to wait until 86 minutes to score again.
Slovakia registered only one shot on target during the match.  
 “We played the perfect game,” Paraguay defender Paulo da
Silva said. “We scored early, we defended well and then killed
the game off at just the right time.”  
 In today’s Group H games, Spain plays Honduras and Chile 
faces Switzerland.    
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        