-- Jeep to Take Global Lead Role as Chryslers Are Rebadged Lancias in Europe
-- Jeff Green
-- 2010-06-20T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/jeep-to-take-global-lead-role-as-chryslers-are-rebadged-lancias-in-europe.html

          
          
             Chrysler Group LLC’s Jeep brand will
become the subsidiary’s primary global make in the first half of
next year as Fiat SpA emphasizes the Lancia nameplate in Europe,
a top executive said.  
 Chrysler’s minivan, Sebring and 300 models will be rebadged
as Lancias across most of Europe at the end of the first quarter
or early in the second,  Michael Manley , Chrysler Group’s
international chief, said in an interview. Sharing models among
the brands is part of a plan outlined by Fiat and Chrysler Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  in November, Manley said.  
 Chrysler aims for Jeep to account for half of Chrysler
Group’s international sales, up from closer to a third
historically, he said. The goal will be to have two brands --
Jeep and one other -- from the Chrysler Group in every market,
Manley said at an event to introduce the new version of the Jeep
Grand Cherokee last week in California.  
 “The brand is global, it’s very well known everywhere
around the world,” Manley said. “With our partnership with
Fiat we can now focus on Jeep as an international brand.”  
 Fiat , which also owns Maserati and Ferrari, is trying to
share engines and other parts among models from Fiat, Chrysler,
Dodge, Jeep and Alfa Romeo brands to save $2.9 billion over five
years. Fiat controls the U.S. automaker through a 20 percent
stake granted as part of last year’s U.S.-backed bankruptcy.  
 U.K. Gets Chryslers  
 In Europe, some Dodge models will also be sold and the
Chrysler name will be kept on the minivan in the U.K., Manley
said. Most of Lancia’s approximately 125,000 sales annually are
in Italy. Chrysler-badged vehicles will continue to be sold in
Latin America and Asia, while the North American use of Chrysler
won’t change, he said.  
 Marchionne said April 21 that he plans to double revenue
from cars and light-commercial vehicles to 51 billion euros
($63 billion) by 2014. Turin, Italy-based Fiat aims to boost
deliveries by 73 percent in the period by expanding in Europe
and emerging markets, re-entering North America and relaunching
the Alfa Romeo and Lancia brands.  
 Fiat has a worldwide sales target of 3.8 million cars and
commercial vans in 2014, compared with 2.2 million last year,
Marchionne said April 21 in a strategy presentation. Combined
with Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler Group, deliveries
would total 6 million cars.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        