-- Israel Agrees to Ease Restrictions on Supplies for Hamas-Ruled Gaza Strip
-- Jonathan Ferziger
-- 2010-06-21T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/netanyahu-working-on-strategy-to-ease-israeli-restrictions-on-gaza-strip.html

          
          
             Israel agreed to ease its three-
year-old blockade of the Gaza Strip and allow all food items and
a wider range of building supplies into the Hamas-ruled
territory while banning materials that have military use.  
 The government announced the revision after Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  met with Middle East envoy  Tony Blair  in
Jerusalem and Cabinet ministers approved the measures, the  prime
minister’s office said . In Washington, the White House announced
that Netanyahu has been invited to meet President  Barack Obama 
on July 6.  
 “From now on, there is a green-light approval for all
goods to enter Gaza except for military items and materials that
can strengthen Hamas’s military machine,” Netanyahu spokesman
 Mark Regev  said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The decision to ease restrictions follows international
criticism of the blockade after Israel’s May 31 commando raid on
a flotilla of ships trying to breach the embargo in which nine
pro-Palestinian activists from Turkey were shot dead. Netanyahu
appointed a panel of three Israelis and two international
observers last week to investigate the incident.  
 The White House welcomed the Israeli move in a statement,
saying yesterday the U.S. will try to “ensure these
arrangements are implemented as quickly and effectively as
possible and to explore additional ways to improve the situation
in Gaza, including greater freedom of movement and commerce
between Gaza and the West Bank.”  
 ‘Dual-use Items’  
 Israel will publish a list of items not permitted into Gaza
that is limited to weapons and war materiel, including what it
described as “problematic dual-use items,” the prime
minister’s office said. “All items not on this list will be
permitted to enter Gaza,” it said. The statement didn’t say
when the list would be released or what specific items would be
on it.  
 For the past three years, Israel has allowed only about 100
basic food products and consumer items into Gaza, while banning
such goods as chocolate, jam, potato chips and shaving cream. It
started letting those items in two weeks ago as it began to ease
the restrictions.  
 The Hamas government’s Minister of Economy Ziad Zaza
dismissed Israel’s relaxing of the blockade as “nonsense,”
saying Israel is trying to calm international pressure by saying
it is easing the situation. The Palestinian Authority’s Deputy
Minister of Economy Abdel Hafiz Noufal called it “a good step
forward, but not enough.”  
 Checking for Weapons  
 Israel’s decision to ease its blockade may lead to a
doubling of goods entering Gaza “in the next couple of weeks,”
Blair told Sky News in an interview. The measures, “if
implemented, will make a difference,” said Blair, the former
U.K. prime minister who now represents the so-called Quartet of
international powers backing the peace process.  
 Israeli officials say they must prevent shipments from
going into Gaza without first checking them for weapons that may
be used against the country’s southern towns and cities, which
have come under attack from rockets. Activists who have
organized flotillas to challenge the embargo say Israeli limits
on aid have led to a humanitarian crisis. Netanyahu said June 2
that each week “an average of ten thousand tons of goods enter
Gaza” and that “there’s no shortage of food. There’s no
shortage of medicine.”  
 Activists Killed  
 The nine activists were killed as their ship headed toward
Gaza to run the Israeli blockade. Israeli officials have said
its forces came under attack as they boarded the ship. There was
no major violence on five other boats intercepted in the
operation.  
 Israel has been blockading Gaza since Hamas seized full
control there in 2007 after winning Palestinian parliamentary
elections the previous year. The group is considered a terrorist
organization by the U.S., the European Union and Israel.  
 Israel carried out a military operation in Gaza in December
2008 that it said was meant to stop the firing of rockets into
its territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict. Since the end of the three-week
operation, more than 400 rockets have been fired from Gaza into
Israel, killing one foreign worker, the Israeli army said.  
 United Nations Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  said he is
still working to put together a panel to investigate the
flotilla raid, as the Security Council requested. Israel hasn’t
committed to cooperating with Ban’s proposed probe, which he
said would include representatives of Turkey and Israel.  
 Ban said he has been told by some governments that Israel’s
planned investigation “is not sufficient enough to have
international credibility.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        