-- London Asking Prices at Record on Scrapped Rules
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-06-21T07:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/london-home-sellers-raise-prices-to-record-in-party-after-rules-scrapped.html

          
          
             London home sellers raised asking
prices to a record as they sought to tap the housing-market
recovery and benefit from the scrapping of costly disclosure
rules,  Rightmove Plc  said.  
 Average asking prices in the capital rose 2.2 percent in
June from the previous month to 429,597 pounds ($640,000), the
operator of Britain’s biggest property website said in an e-
mailed statement in London today. Prices increased for a sixth
month in the country as a whole, climbing 0.3 percent.  
 Demand for properties has withstood uncertainty on the U.K.
economy and the increase in supply caused by the end to so-
called Home Information Pack requirements for marketing
properties. The housing-market recovery may still falter because
mortgage approvals remain at only half the level of the 2007
boom and as budget cuts and tax increases loom, Rightmove said.  
 “There is a bit of a post-HIP party atmosphere, with
estate agents glad to restock their shelves and new sellers
willing to give moving a go with fewer cost commitments,”  Miles Shipside , Rightmove’s commercial director, said in the
statement. “This pent-up enthusiasm to sell will tail off to a
degree, though if it continues those who are serious about
selling will have to consider reducing their prices.”  
 The pound rose 0.4 percent today to $1.4882 at 8:38 a.m. in
London. The yield on the 10-year U.K. government bond was
unchanged at 3.54 percent.  
 Pimlico Purchase  
 James Gubbins, a real-estate agent in the Pimlico area of
London, close to the Tate Britain museum, said the abolition of
Home Information Packs has helped him shift properties that
otherwise would have languished unsold. He was able to turn an
instruction to market a flat on Morton Place, listed for 850,000
pounds, into a sale of the entire building.  
 “We wouldn’t have been able to move as quickly had there
been a HIPs requirement, the buyer would have gone off and
bought something else,” he said in a telephone interview.
“We’ve still got an imbalance between supply and demand, and
that’s sustaining prices.”  
 The supply of new properties for sale in  London  rose 34
percent from May, and is up 88 percent from a year earlier. The
time a property spends on the market dropped to 58 days from 83
days during the previous month, Rightmove said.  
 The “barrier to selling” created by HIPs “has been a
major factor in underpinning prices, and indeed creating a new
all-time high average asking price when combined with the
robustness of London buyer demand,” Rightmove said.  
 U.K. Prices  
 London led gains across Britain, where price growth slowed
to less than half of the 0.7 percent pace recorded in May.
National average asking prices rose 5 percent from a year
earlier and are less than 5,000 pounds short of the peak reached
in May 2008.  
   House prices  may fall in the second half of the year, and
may show no change for 2010, Shipside said. A scarcity of
mortgages, and the possibility that the government will raise
capital-gains tax, will ease demand for new property, he said.  
 Prime Minister  David Cameron  has pledged “fair and
reasonable” changes to the capital-gains tax, now at 18
percent, compared with a top rate of income tax above 40
percent. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  may announce
a higher levy in tomorrow’s emergency budget.  
 Britons’ anxiety about their household finances worsened in
June amid concern about looming austerity in public finances,
according to a survey of more than 2,000 households by  Markit
Economics . Forty-four percent of Britons said their financial
position will worsen in the next 12 months, while only 22
percent predicted an improvement.  
 CML Report  
 The  Council of Mortgage Lenders  said last week that credit
availability “remains problematic for first-time buyers who
tend not to have a substantial deposit.” The  Bank of England 
said on June 18 that the six biggest mortgage banks approved
51,000 mortgages in May, still down by 10,000 from November.  
 “These factors are likely to put an end to this year’s
recovery in house prices,” Shipside said. “We are now seeing
more competition among sellers and a slowdown in the number of
buyers as the market begins to turn.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Signs advertise residential properties for sale and to let in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
