-- Hong Kong Dollar Peg to Stay After China's Yuan Reform, Says Deutsche's Ma
-- Frederik Balfour
-- 2010-06-20T07:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/hong-kong-dollar-peg-to-stay-after-china-s-yuan-reform-says-deutsche-s-ma.html

          
          
             Hong Kong is unlikely to abandon
its 26-year peg to the U.S. dollar in the wake of China’s
decision to resume flexibility of the yuan, Ma Jun, Deutsche
Bank’s chief economist for greater China said today.  
 “On the peg, it’s working and there is no political or
economic reason to undo it,” Ma said by telephone in Hong Kong.
“I see very little impact on the Hong Kong economy and the
Hong Kong dollar.”  
 Hong Kong’s fortunes have long been tethered to exports
from China, its largest trading partner and investment
destination. Hong Kong’s trade-dependent economy is linked
largely to re-exports of Chinese goods. The Hong Kong dollar
trades at 7.782 to the U.S. unit.  
 A modest appreciation of the yuan while keeping the Hong
Kong dollar fixed would increase the cost of Chinese imports to
the city and also likely fuel stronger demand from mainland
shoppers who throng its boutiques of luxury retailers including
Prada,  Louis Vuitton  and Armani. There is no basis for large
changes in the yuan’s exchange rate, the People’s Bank of China
said on its website today.  
 “This will be positive for Hong Kong tourism, especially
for luxury stores selling to mainland markets,”  Ma  said.  
 Deflect Criticism  
 China has left the yuan virtually unchanged at 6.83 to the
dollar since July 2008 in the wake of the global financial
crisis. Its decision to allow flexibility may help deflect
criticism from President Barack Obama and other leaders at the
Group of 20 summit next week.  
 The Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the city’s de facto
central bank, and the People’s Bank of China plan in July to
adjust rules on banking to let people buy yuan-denominated
funds and insurance products, Norman Chan, HKMA chief executive,
said on June 18.  
 China approved use of yuan to settle cross-border trade
with Hong Kong in June 2009, part of a drive to broaden the use
of the currency and reduce reliance on the U.S. dollar. The
State Council approved the expansion of a trial for cross-
border yuan settlement to 20 provinces, the Xinhua News Agency
reported on June 17, citing the People’s Bank.  
 Individuals in Hong Kong are allowed to exchange 20,000
yuan per day, according to the HKMA’s Web site.  
 Speculation that Hong Kong policy makers would be forced
to abandon the peg increased last year as funds poured into
Hong Kong and the central bank sold more than HK$480 billion
($62 billion) to prevent currency appreciation. Pressure for
gains eased this year as the U.S. dollar rallied, allowing the
Hong Kong dollar to strengthen against the euro and the yen.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frederik Balfour  in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        