-- Osborne to Hit Banks, Welfare, Pensions to Close Record U.K. Budget Gap
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-06-20T15:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/osborne-targets-banks-welfare-pensions-in-effort-to-reduce-u-k-deficit.html

          
          
             U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  will force banks and savers to pay more tax in
his first budget, which will map out an austerity plan aimed at
closing Britain’s record budget gap within five years.  
 Osborne said the “pain” of the biggest spending squeeze
in 30 years will be spread over the lifetime of the current
administration and that his plans “will put beyond doubt” the
government’s resolve in filling the budget hole. He also vowed
to spread the pain evenly throughout all parts of society.  
 “The package that I announce on Tuesday will be staggered
over the parliament,” Osborne told BBC1 television’s Sunday AM
program in London. “It doesn’t come into effect in one day or
one month.”  
 His five-year austerity plan will set the overall size of
the budget while leaving details on where the spending
reductions will come until the autumn, when he maps out
departmental spending plans. Osborne today said it remains a
“good rule of thumb” that cuts account for 80 percent of the
consolidation and that tax increases make up 20 percent.  
 The Institute for Fiscal Studies  estimates  that Osborne
will need to squeeze the budget by 85 billion pounds ($126
billion), equivalent to 5.7 percent of gross domestic product,
if he wants to achieve his aim of closing the shortfall by 2015.  
 ‘Very Serious Risk’  
 Osborne said the sovereign-debt crisis affecting European
countries had increased the need for Britain to address its
deficit that was equivalent to 11 percent of GDP last year.  
 Some economists and opposition parties say existing
government forecasts of 2.6 percent  growth  in 2011 and 2.8
percent in 2012 may be trimmed in this week’s budget as
Osborne’s measures suck resources out of the economy.  
 “There is undeniably a very serious risk that accelerated
and intensified fiscal tightening could derail a still fragile
U.K. economic recovery,”  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight, said today.  Ed Balls , the
former schools secretary under  Gordon Brown’s  premiership, told
the BBC that Osborne risks repeating “the mistakes of the
1930s.”  
 Part of the effort to sell the austerity measures to voters
will include a levy on banks’ assets or liabilities that will
raise at least 2 billion pounds a year, according to three
people with knowledge of the plans. Osborne today suggested he
will make the announcement this week.  
 Voter Opinions  
 A  poll  by ComRes Ltd. published in today’s Independent on
Sunday suggests voters accept the need for fiscal retrenchment.
More than half said child benefits should be withdrawn from the
wealthiest families, while 48 percent said they would rather pay
more taxes than have public spending cut.  
 ComRes telephoned 1,004 adults on June 16-17. No margin of
error was given.  
 Osborne told the BBC that he’ll press ahead with plans to
increase capital-gains tax to prevent rich people from declaring
earned income, which is subject to as much as 50 percent tax, as
a capital gain that is liable to an 18 percent tax.  
 “We will have more to say about that,” Osborne said. He
was more elusive over whether he will raise value-added tax
after the Sunday Telegraph reported that it may rise to 20
percent from 17.5 percent.  
 Osborne took aim at Britain’s 187 billion-pound welfare
budget, which accounts for almost a third of spending. He
pledged to reform the system because it discourages people from
taking low-paid jobs in favor of state handouts.  
 ‘Out of Control’  
 “It has got out of control in recent years,” he said.  
 The effort to trim the deficit will also focus on the
public-sector  workforce , Osborne said. He told the BBC that many
of Britain’s 6.1 million employees must accept a wage freeze
that extends beyond this year in order to keep their jobs.  
 The last Labour government added 900,000 workers to the
state payroll during its 13 years in power, more than a third of
them in the past two years to help counter the recession. The
government now accounts for one in five jobs in Britain.  
 Part of the effort to rebalance the workforce will include
a one-year payroll-tax break costing 900 million pounds to
encourage economic growth outside the most prosperous regions,
according to a person with knowledge of the plans.  
 Osborne also said he has appointed former Labour Party
Cabinet Minister  John Hutton  to chair an independent panel on
public-sector pensions that will report by September on how to
make savings over the next few years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        