-- Most Read on Bloomberg: Citigroup to Raise Funds, BP Rebounds, World Cup
-- Audrey Barker
-- 2010-06-20T04:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/most-read-on-bloomberg-citigroup-to-raise-funds-bp-rebounds-world-cup.html

          
          
             The following list comprises the
most-read Bloomberg News reports from the past week.  
 **Lists are based on daily statistics through yesterday, June
18.  
 STORIES  
 1. Citigroup Looking Past Volcker May Seek $3 Billion for Funds  
 June 18 (Bloomberg) -- Citigroup Inc. plans to raise more
than $3 billion for its private-equity and hedge funds, even as
U.S. lawmakers consider banning banks from owning and investing
in so-called alternative funds, people with direct knowledge of
the plan said.  
 2. BP Rebounds on Agreement to Phase Oil Spill Payments  
 June 17 (Bloomberg) -- BP Plc rebounded in London trading
and the cost of insuring the company against default tumbled
after an agreement to phase in payments to a $20 billion fund to
compensate victims of the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 3. Adidas’s World Cup Ball Leaves Goalkeepers Struggling  
 June 14 (Bloomberg) -- England goalkeeper Robert Green
can’t blame the new Adidas AG soccer ball for his fumble that
gave the U.S. a 1-1 tie in the team’s World Cup match, according
to the supplier.  
 4. Europe’s Banks Face Funding Squeeze on Sovereign Crisis  
 June 14 (Bloomberg) -- European banks at risk of writedowns
from the sovereign debt crisis face a funding squeeze that may
depress earnings, curb lending and imperil economic recovery in
the region.  
 5. U.S. Stocks Drop, Treasuries Pare Losses on Greece Downgrade  
 June 14 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. stocks halted a global rally as
Greece’s credit rating was cut and the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index failed to hold above levels watched by traders who base
investment decisions on charts. Treasuries pared losses, while
the euro rallied on signs the region’s economy is strengthening.  
 6. Stocks, Oil Advance on Manufacturing Growth; Greek Bonds Drop  
 June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Stocks surged, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index erasing its 2010 loss, and oil rose as growth
in New York manufacturing added to signs the global economy is
weathering Europe’s debt crisis. Greek bonds sank after Moody’s
Investors Service cut the nation’s rating to junk.  
 7. Cap Bankers’ Bonuses at Half Pay, EU Lawmakers Say  
 June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Bankers’ bonuses should be capped at
50 percent of their pay, lawmakers on a European Parliament
committee said, as they voted on tougher capital and
remuneration rules for banks.  
 8. BP Submits Capture Plan, Obama Seeks Escrow Account  
 June 14 (Bloomberg) -- BP Plc sent a revised oil-capture
plan for its leaking Gulf of Mexico well to the Obama
administration as the government demanded an escrow account for
damage claims related to the biggest petroleum spill in the
nation’s history.  
 9. BP Swaps Rise to Record at 36% Default Odds: Credit Markets  
 June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Credit investors are pricing in a 36
percent chance BP Plc will default within five years as it
tangles with the Obama administration over cleanup costs and
claims for the biggest oil spill in U.S. history.  
 10. Global Stocks Extend 8-Day Gain; Euro, Spanish Bonds Rise  
 June 17 (Bloomberg) -- Stocks rose, with the MSCI World
Index extending its longest advance in 11 months, as a late-day
rally in technology shares helped the U.S. market reverse an
early drop. The euro gained as a Spanish bond sale eased concern
the region’s debt crisis will worsen. Gold rallied.  
 COLUMNS  
 1. Billionaires Dig In to Kill Good Economic Idea: William Pesek  
 June 17 (Bloomberg) -- Australia is committing economic
suicide.  
 2. Obama Kicks Bad Dog BP in Power Grab: Caroline Baum  
 June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Reports of the death of capitalism
may have been greatly exaggerated following the panic and crisis
of 2008 and the government’s assumption of a bigger role in the
economy. Now I’m not so sure.  
 3. Al Pacino Wouldn’t Need to Talk Tough to BP: Margaret Carlson  
 June 17 (Bloomberg) -- A president should give no speech
before its time. The one that Barack Obama delivered Tuesday
night was too small for such a big problem, the Oval Office
setting too august for mere updates.  
 4. Gold’s 30% Surge Puzzles Ben Bernanke: William Pesek  
 June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Alan Greenspan had his conundrum.
Now, Ben Bernanke has his enigma.  
 5. San Diego May Use Bankruptcy to Roll Back Benefits: Joe Mysak  
 June 16 (Bloomberg) -- The city of San Diego should
consider Chapter 9 municipal bankruptcy to help it reduce fringe
benefits, pension and health obligations.  
 MULTIMEDIA  
 1. Soros Says ‘We Have Just Entered Act Two’ of Crisis  
 June 10 (Bloomberg) -- Billionaire investor George Soros
comments on Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, the risks of a
double-dip recession in the global economy and challenges facing
financial market regulators.  
 2. Tony Hayward Testifies About BP Oil Spill  
 June 17 (Bloomberg) -- Tony Hayward, chief executive
officer of BP Plc, testifies before the House Energy Committee
about the April 20 explosion at a Gulf of Mexico and the
consequent oil leak that continues through today.  
 3. Mandela to Miss Cup Opener After Great-Grandchild Dies  
 June 11 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg’s Matt Teale reports from
Johannesburg about the death of Nelson Mandela’s great-
granddaughter ahead of the opening of the soccer World Cup in
South Africa.  
 4. New Zealand, North Korea Score Shock Goals; Brazil Wins  
 June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Brazil, the record five-time
champion, beat North Korea 2-1 in Group G of soccer’s World Cup
last night. In the group’s other match Ivory Coast and Portugal
drew 0-0, while in Group F New Zealand scored an injury-time
equalizer to tie 1-1 with Slovakia.  
 5. Nadal Says MDC Focusing on Interactive, Social Media  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Audrey Barker  in New York at 
 Abarker3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        