-- Toyota, Honda Raise China Wages as Yuan's Flexibility to Threaten Profits
-- Yuki Hagiwara
-- 2010-06-21T06:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/toyota-honda-raise-china-wages-as-yuan-s-flexibility-to-threaten-profits.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp.  and  Honda Motor
Co.  suppliers sacrificed earnings in China by raising wages to
end strikes, and the government’s decision to allow greater
exchange-rate flexibility may slow plans to export vehicles from
the nation as the currency appreciates.  
 China’s central bank will allow the yuan more flexibility,
it said in a statement on June 19, signaling an end to the
currency’s two-year-old peg to the dollar. The currency climbed
the most in 20 months against the dollar and forwards jumped.  
 The looser currency stance comes “on the back of all these
moves to endorse the wage increases,”  Jim O’Neill , Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s chief global economist, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview yesterday. “It’s all part of moving to the
consumer, more domestic-demand-driven economy.”  
 Labor unrest that disrupted output at Toyota and Honda’s
plants in China in the past month forced their suppliers in the
country to increase wages. In addition to the higher labor costs,
an appreciation of the yuan may hamper plans to export Chinese-
made vehicles by carmakers including Honda, which operates an
export-only factory in Guangzhou, Guangdong province.  
 “Honda probably has to have second thoughts on its export
plant,”  Koji Endo , managing director at Advanced Research Japan,
said today in a Bloomberg Television interview.  
 Yuan Gains  
 The yuan advanced 0.36 percent to 6.802 per dollar as of
1:45 p.m. in Hong Kong, the biggest gain since Oct. 7, 2008,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trading System. The 12-
month non-deliverable yuan forward rose 1.4 percent to 6.6209,
implying traders are betting on a 2.7 percent appreciation.  
 Toyota, Japan’s biggest automaker, gained 1.7 percent in
Tokyo trading, while Honda, the second-largest, gained 3.7
percent.  Nissan Motor Co. , Japan’s third-largest carmaker,
advanced 2.8 percent.  
 The Chinese government aims to boost exports of vehicles
and parts to $85 billion by 2015 from at least $19 billion last
year and the equivalent of 10 percent of the global auto trade
by 2020.  
 Japanese carmakers won’t change plans to build vehicles in
China for the domestic market, in part because of import duties,
Endo said.  
 “China will continue to be the  biggest car market  in the
world, and the growth rate will continue to be strong,” he said.  
 Labor Unrest  
 A stronger Chinese currency will help contain inflation,
which may reduce worker wage demands,  David Cohen , director for
economic forecasting at Singapore-based Action Economics, said
in a telephone interview yesterday.  
 Japanese carmakers and other foreign manufacturers
including Taiwan’s  Foxconn Technology Group , are spending more
on labor as a result of recent unrest. Foxconn, which makes
iPhones for Apple Inc., said it will double salaries for its
lowest-paid workers after at least 10 Chinese employees killed
themselves this year.  
 Toyoda Gosei Co., an affiliate of Toyota, ended a strike on
June 19 that had disrupted car assembly, said  Mieko Iwasaki , a
Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Toyota. The company’s car plants in
China are operating normally today, she said.  
 Akemi Ando , a spokeswoman for Honda, said the Tokyo-based
company’s Chinese factories were also running as usual.  
 Iwasaki and Ando both declined to comment on the yuan
decision’s impact on the companies.  
 Higher investment and improved wages in western China are
deterring workers from migrating, pushing up pay in more
industrialized regions like Guangdong in the south, said David
Abrahamson, project manager at the China Center for Labor and
Environment.  
 Minimum Wages  
 More than 20 Chinese provinces and cities raised minimum
wages this year, the Shenzhen city government said on its
 website . In Shenzhen, which raised minimum wages an average of
15.8 percent, the government said higher pay will help companies
recruit workers and will boost consumption.  
 Honda Lock (Guangdong) Co.  ended a strike after employees
at the Honda supplier agreed on June 18 to accept wage increases,
said Takayuki Fujii, a Beijing-based spokesman for the carmaker.
He declined to comment on the raise. Workers at the Zhongshan,
Guangdong province, plant began their walkout on June 9 and
suspended industrial action five days later as union leaders and
management negotiated pay raises.  
 Honda ended the first strike at an affiliate on June 3
after agreeing to a 24 percent wage increase.  
 The fourth Honda affiliate to be hit by a walkout in the
region,  Nihon Plast Co ., agreed to raise wages on June 19,
 Mutsuo Suzuki , a spokesman for the Shizuoka, Japan-based parts
maker, said by phone today.  
 Nihon Plast  
 The pay increase was smaller than workers had demanded,
Suzuki said, declining to specify further. The plant lost a day
and a half of production before resuming output late on June 18,
he said.  
 Nihon Plast is 21 percent owned by Honda, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company also supplies parts to Nissan
and Suzuki Motor Corp., according to its  website .  
 The Zhongshan factory, a joint venture between Nihon Plast
and Osaka, Japan-based  Itochu Corp ., makes steering wheels for
all models produced at Nissan’s Chinese venture, Dongfeng Nissan
Passenger Vehicle Co.  Mitsuru Yonekawa , a spokesman at Nissan,
said the Yokohama-based company’s car production in China wasn’t
affected by the Nihon Plast strike.  
 Workers at another Toyota supplier in China, Tianjin Star
Light Rubber and Plastic Co., also walked out briefly on June 15.
The issue was resolved when the company offered a pay increase.  
 Chongqing Brewery Co.’s operations returned to normal on
the evening of June 18 after workers ended a strike, the
Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing an unidentified
company official.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liza Lin  in Singapore at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     China’s yuan declined the most since December 2008. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Workers leave the Honda Lock factory after a shift  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Workers leave the Honda Lock (Guangdong) Co. factory after finishing their shift in Zhongshan, Guangdong province, China. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Workers leave the Honda Lock (Guangdong) Co. factory after finishing their shift in Zhongshan, Guangdong province, China. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
