-- PKK Rebels Kill Turkish Soldier, Raising Army Death Toll to 12 in Two Days
-- Steve Bryant
-- 2010-06-20T08:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/pkk-rebels-kill-turkish-soldier-raising-army-death-toll-to-12-in-two-days.html

          
          
             Kurdish separatist rebels killed a
Turkish soldier in the east of the country, raising the army’s
death toll to 12 in the last two days.  
 The Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK, attacked a military
outpost in Elazig province with hand grenades and machine-gun
fire, killing one soldier and injuring another, the state news
agency Anatolia reported. In Hakkari province, troops searching
the Iraqi border region for PKK gunmen who’d  killed  eight
soldiers yesterday found the body of a soldier who’d lost
contact with his unit, it said. Yesterday two other soldiers
died from a mine explosion authorities attributed to the PKK.  
 The military said at least 12 PKK members had been killed
in the fighting. Clashes between Turkish forces and the
militants have surged since the PKK stepped up attacks at the
start of this month. The military says it has killed 130 PKK
fighters and lost 43 soldiers since March.  
 The army on June 18 warned of an increase in attacks from
the PKK. The organization on June 1 decided to increase attacks
because Turkey is ignoring its demands for constitutionally
recognized autonomy, General Fahri Kir  told  reporters in Ankara.  
 Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  has widened Kurdish
cultural rights, allowing television broadcasts in the language
and increasing investment in Turkey’s mostly Kurdish southeast.
The increase in PKK violence reflects the group’s efforts to
“sabotage the economic, social and democratic development
process,” Erdogan said in a statement yesterday, vowing to
fight the rebels until they were “annihilated.”  
 Iraq Attacks  
 Turkish jets bombed northern Iraq yesterday in response to
the attacks. It was the second time in a week that Turkey
attacked the PKK inside northern Iraq, which the group uses as a
base.  
 Turkey, the U.S. and the European Union classify the PKK as
a terrorist group. The group has been fighting the Turkish state
since 1984 in a conflict that has killed at least 40,000 people.  
 Turkish authorities don’t negotiate with the PKK and its
leader,  Abdullah Ocalan , who’s serving a life sentence on an
island jail in western Turkey.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        