-- Macarthur Coal Founder Talbot, Sundance Resources CEO Missing in Cameroon
-- Elisabeth Behrmann
-- 2010-06-20T08:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/plane-carrying-executives-of-sundance-resources-missing-in-africa-flight.html

          
          
             Ken Talbot , the former chief
executive officer of Australian mining company  Macarthur Coal
Ltd ., is missing in West Africa after an aircraft carrying nine
people, including Talbot and five
other Australian mining executives, was lost.  
 The plane, chartered by  Sundance Resources Ltd ., was on a
flight to Sundance’s Mbalam iron ore project in Cameroon on
Saturday morning from the capital, Yaounde, according to an e-
mailed statement from Don Nissen, chairman of Talbot Group
Management.  
 “A comprehensive air and ground search coordinated by the
Cameroon military will commence at first daylight local time on
Sunday,” the Perth-based iron-ore developer said in a
statement. Talbot owned a 16.1 percent in the company, according
to Bloomberg data.  
 Sundance Managing Director  Don Lewis  as well as non-
executive director and former BHP Billiton Ltd. executive John
Jones were also on board, the Australian reported. Joint
Sundance and Gindalbie Metals Ltd. Chairman  Geoff Wedlock  was on
the plane, Gindalbie CEO  Garret Dixon  said by phone. Sundance
independent director and  Western Areas NL  Chief Financial
Officer  Craig Oliver  may also be on the plane, Western Areas CEO
 Julian Hanna  said. “We’re very concerned,” Hanna said.  
 “Between them, without exaggeration, there are two
centuries of mining experience,” said  Gavin Wendt , an analyst
at Sydney-based Mine Life Resources, by phone.  
 Talbot, a well-known Australian mining figure, founded
Macarthur Coal and built the company into the largest producer
of pulverized coal used in steelmaking, with a current market
capitalization of A$3.18 billion ($2.77 billion). His current
investments span iron ore, uranium, liquefied natural gas and
copper.  
 Talbot Group spokesman Shane Edwards and Sundance
spokeswoman Felicity Nuttal declined to comment further.  
 “The Australian High Commissioner-designate to Abuja --
currently in Cameroon -- is managing the government’s response
on the ground,” said spokeswoman Ranya Alkadamanini of the
Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade by e-mail.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        