-- Poland's Komorowski, Kaczynski Face Runoff for Presidency, Exit Polls Show
-- Dorota Bartyzel
-- 2010-06-20T19:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/poland-s-komorowski-kaczynski-face-runoff-for-presidency-exit-polls-show.html

          
          
             Bronislaw Komorowski  fell short of
an absolute majority in the first round of Poland’s presidential
election, setting up a runoff with  Jaroslaw Kaczynski , brother
of the late head of state, exit polls show.  
 Komorowski, the acting president and candidate of Prime
Minister  Donald Tusk’s  Civic Platform party, got 45.7 percent of
the vote, while Kaczynski, took 33.2 percent, according to an
exit poll by MillwardBrown SMG/KRC for TVN television. An exit
poll by TNS OBOP for Polish State Television showed Komorowski
leading 40.7 percent to 35.8 percent. The State Elections
Committee plans to release final results tomorrow evening.  
 A Komorowski victory would give Civic Platform control of
the presidency and cabinet, ending policy divisions that arose
under the late President  Lech Kaczynski , who died April 10 in a
plane crash in Russia. That may help Poland, the European
Union’s biggest eastern member, pursue euro adoption and
spending cuts needed to comply with the EU’s deficit limit.  
 “Komorowski has a sufficient cushion so that unless
something untoward happens he should win in the second round
quite comfortably,”  Nigel Rendell , senior emerging market
strategist at RBC Capital in London, said before the polls were
released. “That would be the market’s favorite outcome.”  
 The president represents Poland abroad, is head of the army
and can veto legislation. His veto can be overturned by a three-
fifths majority in parliament.  
 Decisive Votes  
 Grzegorz Napieralski , chairman of the Democratic Left
Alliance, finished third, with 13.4 percent of the vote,
according to MillwardBrown SMG/KRC. Where these votes go will be
decisive in the second round, said  Beata Laciak , a sociology
professor at Warsaw University.  
 “Napieralski holds the keys to the vault and he’ll be
wooed intensively,” Laciak, who studies voter attitudes, said
by telephone.  
 Komorowski will probably pick up more votes from the Left
Democrats than Kaczynski, Laciak said. Sixty-six percent of
Napieralski voters listed the acting president as their
preferred alternative in a June 10-13 survey by researcher CBOS,
while Kaczynski was named by 11 percent.  
 Komorowski, 58, said last week that Poland needs to
establish a timeline for adopting the euro to ensure responsible
economic policies.  
 ‘Create Pressure’  
 “Some sort of date needs to be given to create pressure to
fulfill the euro-eligibility criteria,” Komorowski said June 14
in the western city of Poznan. “That would trigger a period of
public-finance reform.”  
 Tusk’s government has proposed limiting increases in
discretionary spending to no more than 1 percent above
inflation, saving an estimated 9 billion zloty ($2.7 billion) a
year by 2013. That will help narrow the deficit to less than the
EU limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product within three
years, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said June 11.  
 Jaroslaw Kaczynski, 61, chairman of the largest opposition
party, Law & Justice, has said he would continue his brother’s
policy of opposing setting a date for euro entry. The late
president was the last EU leader before Czech President  Vaclav Klaus  to sign the Lisbon Treaty, intended to streamline EU
institutions and lay the foundation for the bloc’s enlargement.  
 Law & Justice last year called for an increase in spending
to offset the impact of the first global recession since the
1930s. Poland is the only EU member to have avoided an economic
contraction since the credit crisis started.  
 Hindrance  
 “If we get Kaczynski, things will look a lot more
uncertain,” Rendell said. “People are fearful that he might go
the same way as his brother as being more of a hindrance than a
help.”  
 Even with a cooperative head of state, Tusk may be reticent
to make large changes in public policy as he seeks to
consolidate support in two elections over the next 12 months,
said  Elisabeth Andreew , an economist at Nordea Bank AB in
Copenhagen, said in a note to clients.  
 “We do not expect any massive reform packages in the near-
term perspective, as it may affect the outcome of the November
local elections and the parliamentary elections in 2011,”
Andreew said before the exit polls were released.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Candidate for Prime Minister Bronislaw Komorowski. Photographer: John  Guillemin/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Jaroslaw Kaczynski, former prime minister of Poland, pauses during an interview at his office in Warsaw, on May 12, 2009. Photographer: John Guillemin/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
