-- Poland's Komorowski, Kaczynski Face Runoff for Presidency, Exit Polls Show
-- Dorota Bartyzel
-- 2010-06-20T22:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/poland-s-komorowski-kaczynski-face-july-4-runoff-vote-early-returns-show.html

          
          
             Bronislaw Komorowski  probably fell
short of a majority in Poland’s presidential elections, setting
up a runoff with  Jaroslaw Kaczynski  that may determine how
quickly the country pursues euro adoption and deficit reduction,
exit polls and early returns show.  
 Komorowski, the acting president and candidate of Prime
Minister  Donald Tusk’s  Civic Platform, got 45.7 percent of the
vote, and Kaczynski 33.2 percent, a MillwardBrown SMG/KRC exit
poll for TVN television showed. Early results based on returns
from 15 percent of voting districts showed a closer race, with
Komorowski at 39.7 percent and Kaczynski at 37.7 percent.  
 A Komorowski victory in the July 4 runoff would give Civic
Platform control of the presidency and cabinet, ending divisions
that arose under the late President  Lech Kaczynski , Jaroslaw’s
twin, who died in an April 10 plane crash. Komorowski backs a
timetable for euro membership and spending limits. Kaczynski
opposes a euro deadline and has called for increased spending.  
 “We’ve got two weeks of suspense ahead of us, but
Komorowski should win a runoff because he’s more capable of
picking up voters who supported other candidates,” said Anna
Materska-Sosnowska, a political scientist at Warsaw University.  
 The Election Commission plans to release final results by
tonight.  
 Decisive Votes  
 Grzegorz Napieralski , chairman of the Democratic Left
Alliance, is in third place, with 13.9 percent of the vote,
according to the early returns.  
 Komorowski will probably attract more votes from the Left
Democrats than Kaczynski, said  Beata Laciak , a sociology
professor at Warsaw University. Sixty-six percent of Napieralski
voters listed the acting president as their preferred
alternative in a June 10-13 survey by researcher CBOS, while
Kaczynski was named by 11 percent.  
 “Napieralski holds the keys to the vault and he’ll be
wooed intensively,” Laciak, who studies voter attitudes, said
by telephone late yesterday.  
 The president represents Poland abroad, is head of the army
and can veto legislation. His veto can be overturned by a three-
fifths majority in parliament.  
 Komorowski, 58, said last week that Poland needs to
establish a timeline for adopting the euro to ensure responsible
economic policies.  
 ‘Create Pressure’  
 “Some sort of date needs to be given to create pressure to
fulfill the euro-eligibility criteria,” Komorowski said June 14
in the western city of Poznan. “That would trigger a period of
public-finance reform.”  
 Tusk’s government has proposed limiting increases in
discretionary spending to no more than 1 percent above
inflation, saving an estimated 9 billion zloty ($2.7 billion) a
year by 2013. That will help narrow the deficit to less than the
EU limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product within three
years, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said June 11.  
 Jaroslaw Kaczynski, 61, chairman of the largest opposition
party, Law & Justice, has said he would continue his brother’s
policy of opposing setting a date for euro entry. The late
president was the last EU leader before Czech President  Vaclav Klaus  to sign the Lisbon Treaty, intended to streamline EU
institutions and lay the foundation for the bloc’s enlargement.  
 Law & Justice last year called for an increase in spending
to offset the impact of the first global recession since the
1930s. Poland is the only EU member to have avoided an economic
contraction since the credit crisis started.  
 Hindrance  
 “If we get Kaczynski, things will look a lot more
uncertain,”  Nigel Rendell , senior emerging market strategist at
RBC Capital in London, before the first results were announced.
“People are fearful that he might go the same way as his
brother as being more of a hindrance than a help.”  
 Even with a cooperative head of state, Tusk may be reticent
to make large changes in public policy as he seeks to
consolidate support in two elections over the next 12 months,
said  Elisabeth Andreew , an economist at Nordea Bank AB in
Copenhagen, said in a note to clients.  
 “We do not expect any massive reform packages in the near-
term perspective, as it may affect the outcome of the November
local elections and the parliamentary elections in 2011,”
Andreew said before the exit polls were released.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Poland's Acting President Bronislaw Komorowski  
                       
                         
                           Janek Skarzynski/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Bronislaw Komorowski, Poland's acting president and presidential candidate, reacts after acknowledging exit polls for the early presidential elections, in Warsaw. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Bronislaw Komorowski, Poland's acting president and presidential candidate, reacts after acknowledging exit polls for the early presidential elections, in Warsaw. Photographer: Janek Skarzynski/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
