-- Qatar Said to Invest $2.8 Billion in AgriBank IPO
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-20T18:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/qatar-said-to-invest-2-8-billion-in-agribank-ipo.html

          
          
             The Qatar Investment Authority, the
Gulf country’s sovereign wealth fund, agreed to invest $2.8
billion in  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. ’s initial public
offering to tap growth in the world’s third-biggest economy.  
 The $58 billion fund signed an agreement with Agricultural
Bank on June 17, two people with knowledge of the matter said,
declining to be identified because the deal is private. The bank
has allocated more than $5 billion for corporate investors such
as QIA in the Hong Kong part of its IPO, the people said.  
 Agricultural Bank,  China’s largest  lender by number of
customers, is seeking to raise as much as $15 billion in the
Hong Kong part of what may be the world’s largest IPO, according
to an e-mail sent to investors last week. The Beijing-based
lender may sell as much as $28 billion of stock in Hong Kong and
Shanghai combined, exceeding the $22 billion sale by  Industrial
& Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  in 2006.  
 Global economic growth “is very much in favor of the Bric
countries,” Brazil, Russia, India and China,  Abdul Kadir Hussain , chief executive at Mashreq Capital DIFC Ltd., said in a
phone interview from Dubai yesterday. “I think that these
sovereign wealth funds are just latching on to that trend.”  
 Standard Chartered Plc, the London-based bank that gets
most of its  profit  from Asia, will invest about $500 million in
the IPO, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  
 A spokesman for QIA declined to comment. Agricultural Bank
Vice President  Pan Gongsheng  and Standard Chartered spokeswoman
 Gabriel Kwan  didn’t immediately return calls.  
 China Growth  
 China’s economy, is forecast to grow 10 percent this year
and by 9.9 percent in 2011, according to the International
Monetary Fund. It will allow a more flexible yuan, the central
bank said June 19, signaling an end to the currency’s two-year-
old peg to the dollar a week before a Group of 20 summit.  
 Investing in China is part of QIA’s “diversification
strategy,”  Giyas Gokkent , chief economist at the  National Bank
of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the United Arab Emirates’ second-biggest bank
by assets, said yesterday. Qatar, holder of the world’s third-
largest natural gas reserves, will likely generate a trade
surplus of $22 billion this year helped by oil and gas sales and
some of that surplus will flow to the QIA, he said.  
 Kuwait Investment Authority, the Persian Gulf country’s
sovereign wealth fund, is interested in Agricultural Bank’s
initial share sale, Managing Director  Bader al-Saad  said June
13. Kuwait, the third-biggest oil producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries in May, is likely to generate a
trade surplus of $45 billion this year and “will be an exporter
of capital this year,” NBAD’s Gokkent said.  
 ‘Major Player’  
 The Qatar Investment Authority owns stakes in financial
institutions including Credit Suisse Group AG and Barclays Plc.
The fund bought Harrods Ltd. department store in London in May
for 1.5 billion pounds ($1.9 billion) and a stake in Volkswagen
AG last year.  Barwa Real Estate Co. , controlled by the fund, on
June 18 agreed to buy Park House, an office and retail project
on London’s Oxford Street, for 250 million pounds.  
 Qatar “is going to be a major player on global markets,
both developed and emerging, for years to come,”  Simon Williams 
chief economist for the Middle East at HSBC Holdings Plc said in
a phone interview from Dubai yesterday. Regional sovereign
wealth fund managers “will accumulate assets in traditional
western markets and in emerging markets where they see value,”
he said.  
 Agricultural Bank is pushing ahead with its offering after
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis spurred more than 30 companies
worldwide to postpone or withdraw IPOs globally since the start
of May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Cornerstone Buyers  
 Corporate, or cornerstone, investors are guaranteed shares
in IPOs in exchange for a pledge to hold the stock for a period
of time. Companies use the cachet of the investors, who may be
institutions, companies or billionaires, to drum up interest in
their offerings among other potential buyers.  
 Agricultural Bank is reserving as much as 40 percent of the
Shanghai part of the IPO to cornerstone investors, including the
over-allotment, the company  said  on June 16. Such investors will
be required to hold 50 percent of their stock for at least 12
months and the remainder for 18 months in exchange for a
guaranteed number of shares, according to the filing.  
 Cornerstone investors may account for about 40 percent of
Agricultural Bank’s Hong Kong sale, according to people with
knowledge of the matter.  ICBC , the world’s largest lender by
market value, set aside 28 percent of the Hong Kong part of its
October 2006 IPO for such investors, before exercising a so-
called greenshoe option.  
 Hong Kong, Shanghai  
 Agricultural Bank is selling 25.4 billion shares in Hong
Kong and 22.2 billion shares in Shanghai, according to a  draft
prospectus . It can expand the offer by 15 percent after excising
an over-allotment option, the prospectus says.  
 Middle East sovereign-wealth funds may invest 25 percent of
their new capital in the developing world by 2016 as economic
growth there surges,  George Pavey , a managing director at the
global markets solutions group at Credit Suisse Group AG, said
in November. Middle East funds were anchor investors in 2009 in
the $3.3 billion initial public offering of Kuala Lumpur-based
mobile phone operator Maxis Communications Bhd and the $1.79
billion IPO of property manager CapitaMalls Asia Ltd. of
Singapore, which were managed by Credit Suisse, Pavey said then.  
 Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, one of the worlds’ largest
sovereign wealth funds, raised investments in emerging markets
where it sees greater growth opportunities, Sheikh Ahmed Bin
Zayed Al-Nahyan, the fund’s late managing director told German
daily Handelsblatt in January this year. Emerging market
economies are likely to outperform those of developed economies
over the medium-to-long term, he said then.  
 Sovereign Funds  
 Sovereign wealth fund assets fell 3 percent to $3.8
trillion in 2009 as the funds invested $60 billion last year to
buy assets mainly in Europe and North America, according to
International Financial Services London. Sovereign wealth
holdings funded by commodity exports, primarily oil and gas
sales, stood at $2.5 trillion at the end of 2009, while non-
commodity funds had $1.3 trillion.  
 Middle East funds have bought stocks in financial service
companies. Abu Dhabi Investment Authority invested $7.5 billion
in November 2007 to buy equity units in Citigroup Inc. Kuwait
Investment Authority said in 2009 it purchased a $3 billion
stake in Citigroup and a $2 billion holding in Merrill Lynch.  
 -- Bei Hu ,  Eva Woo ,  Jun Luo ,  Arif Sharif ; with assistance from
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai and  Stanley Reed  in London. Editors:
 Joost Akkermans ,  Dick Schumacher .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
 Luo Jun  in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. logo is displayed on a branch in Shanghai. Photographer: Kevin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Gigi Stone reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
