-- Qatar Sovereign Fund Said to Invest $2.8 Billion in AgriBank Initial Offer
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-20T10:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/qatar-sovereign-fund-said-to-invest-2-8-billion-in-agribank-initial-offer.html

          
          
             The Qatar Investment Authority, the
Doha-based sovereign wealth fund, agreed to invest $2.8 billion
in  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. ’s initial public offering,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  
 The $58 billion fund signed an agreement with Agricultural
Bank on June 17, the people said, declining to be identified
because the deal is private. The bank has allocated more than $5
billion for corporate investors such as QIA in the Hong Kong
part of its IPO, the people said.  
 Agricultural Bank,  China’s largest  by number of customers,
is seeking to raise as much as $15 billion in the Hong Kong part
of what could be the world’s largest IPO, according to an e-mail
sent to investors last week. The Beijing-based lender may sell
up to $28 billion of stock in Hong Kong and Shanghai combined,
exceeding the $22 billion sale by  Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China Ltd.  in 2006.  
 Qatar, holder of the world’s third-largest natural gas
reserves, will likely generate a trade surplus of $22 billion
this year helped by oil and gas sales,  Giyas Gokkent , chief
economist at the National Bank of  Abu Dhabi  PJSC, the United
Arab Emirates’ second-biggest bank by assets, said in a phone
interview today. Some of that surplus will flow to the QIA,
which “it needs to recycle” and “investing in China is part
of their diversification strategy,” he said.  
 Standard Chartered Plc, the London-based bank that gets
most of its  profit  from Asia, will invest about $500 million in
the IPO, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  
 Kuwait  
 A spokesman for QIA declined to comment. Agricultural Bank
Vice President  Pan Gongsheng  and Standard Chartered spokeswoman
 Gabriel Kwan  didn’t immediately return calls.  
 Kuwait Investment Authority, the Persian Gulf country’s
sovereign wealth fund, is interested in Agricultural Bank’s IPO,
Managing Director  Bader al-Saad  said June 13. Kuwait, the third-
biggest oil producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries in May, will generate a trade surplus of $45 billion
this year and “will be an exporter of capital this year,”
Gokkent at NBAD said today.  
 The Qatar Investment Authority owns stakes in financial
institutions including Credit Suisse Group AG and Barclays Plc.
The fund bought Harrods Ltd. department store in London in May
and a stake in Volkswagen AG last year.  Barwa Real Estate Co. , a
developer controlled by the fund, on June 18 agreed to buy Park
House, an office and retail project on London’s Oxford Street,
for 250 million pounds ($370 million).  
 Agricultural Bank is pushing ahead with its offering after
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis spurred more than 30 companies
worldwide to postpone or withdraw IPOs globally since the start
of May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Cornerstone Buyers  
 Corporate, or cornerstone, investors are guaranteed shares
in IPOs in exchange for a pledge to hold the stock for a period
of time. Companies use the cachet of the investors, who may be
institutions, companies or billionaires, to drum up interest in
their offerings among other potential buyers.  
 Agricultural Bank is reserving up to 40 percent of the
Shanghai part of the IPO to cornerstone investors including
over-allotment, the company  said  on June 16. Such investors will
be required to hold 50 percent of their stock for at least 12
months and the remainder for 18 months in exchange for a
guaranteed number of shares, according to the filing.  
 Cornerstone investors may account for about 40 percent of
Agricultural Bank’s Hong Kong sale, according to people with
knowledge of the matter.  ICBC , the world’s largest lender by
market value, set aside 28 percent of the Hong Kong part of its
October 2006 IPO for such investors, before exercising a so-
called greenshoe option.  
 Hong Kong, Shanghai  
 Agricultural Bank is selling 25.4 billion shares in Hong
Kong and 22.2 billion shares in Shanghai, according to a  draft
prospectus . It can expand the offer by 15 percent after excising
an over-allotment option.  
 Middle East sovereign-wealth funds may invest 25 percent of
their new capital in the developing world by 2016 as economic
growth there surges,  George Pavey , a managing director at the
global markets solutions group at Credit Suisse Group AG, said
in November. Middle East funds were anchor investors in 2009 in
the $3.3 billion initial public offering of Kuala Lumpur-based
mobile phone operator Maxis Communications Bhd and the $1.79
billion IPO of property manager CapitaMalls Asia Ltd. of
Singapore, which were managed by Credit Suisse, Pavey said then.  
 -- Bei Hu ,  Eva Woo ,  Jun Luo ,  Arif Sharif , Stanley Reed.
Editors:  Joost Akkermans ,  Philip Lagerkranser   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
 Luo Jun  in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        