-- Qatar Islamic Bank Invests $343 Million in Islamic Bond Sold by Government
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-06-20T08:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/qatar-islamic-bank-invests-343-million-in-islamic-bond-sold-by-government.html

          
          
             Qatar Islamic Bank SAQ , the Gulf
state’s biggest bank complying with Muslim banking rules, bought
1.25 billion riyals ($344 million) of Islamic bonds offered by
the government.  
 The eight-year bonds, or sukuk, are based on a leasing
contract and is guaranteed by the Qatari government, Qatar
Islamic said in a statement to the Doha bourse today. Shariah,
or Islamic law, forbids the receipt of interest, so the debt
will pay a profit to investors rather than interest.  
 “The investment initiative aims to also attract excess
liquidity within the financial industry and offers well
established local banks the opportunity to invest in a high-
return investment,” Chief Executive Officer  Salah Mohammed Jaidah  said in the statement.  
 Qatar, holder of the world’s third-largest natural gas
reserves, sold 5 billion riyals of eight-year bonds earlier this
month to develop a domestic debt market. The securities will pay
a coupon rate of 6.5 percent, Finance Minister  Yousef Kamal  said
on June 1.  
 The sale is the first from the Gulf nation since it tapped
international debt markets in a multi-tranche sale in November,
raising $7 billion. Qatar is spending billions of dollars
diversifying its economy and plans to invest in infrastructure
projects, international oil and gas industry, and sports and
cultural attractions.  
 Qatar Islamic Bank , the country’s fourth-biggest bank by
assets, reported a 14 percent decline in first-quarter profit to
300 million riyals. The lender plans to sell as much as $750
million of bonds in its first Islamic debt offering, Jaidah said
in Kuala Lumpur on May 19.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        