-- Roger Federer, Serena Williams Optimistic of Wimbledon Title Defenses
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-20T14:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/roger-federer-serena-williams-optimistic-of-wimbledon-title-defenses.html

          
          
             Reigning Wimbledon champions  Roger
Federer  and  Serena Williams  say they’re confident of defending
their titles at the grass-court major, which starts tomorrow.  
 “My game’s made for grass,” men’s top seed Federer said
in a news conference at the All England Club today.  “Since I
came here as a junior and since I beat  Pete [Sampras ] here in
2001 and I won my first Wimbledon here in 2003, I definitely
think every time I play, I’ll have a chance to win here, there’s
no doubt.”  
 Defending women’s champion  Serena Williams , who beat her
elder sister Venus in the finals last year for her third
Wimbledon title, plays Portuguese teenager  Michelle Larcher de
Brito  in the first round.  
 “I don’t feel pressure,” women’s top seed Williams said
in a news conference today. “I’m here to win Wimbledon like the
other 128 people in the draw.  That’s kind of how I look at
it.”  
 Federer last year became only the sixth man to win all four
majors after he triumphed at the French Open. He went on to
claim a record-breaking 15th Grand Slam singles title at
Wimbledon and took his 16th at January’s Australian Open. The
Swiss is seeking to tie  Pete Sampras ’s Open era men’s record of
seven titles at the All England Club. He’ll start his title
defense tomorrow against  Alejandro Falla  of Colombia.  
 Federer said he had overcome a “disappointing” run after
the Australian Open and wasn’t worried about not winning a
tournament since he beat  Andy Murray  in the finals in Melbourne.  
 The Swiss was upset by Sweden’s  Robin Soderling  at the
French Open, ending his record streak of 23 straight Grand Slam
semifinals. He lost to  Lleyton Hewitt  in the final at Halle, his
first defeat there since 2002, a week before the start of
Wimbledon.  
 “I found my game again in Madrid,” said Federer, who lost
in the Madrid Masters finals on clay to second seed  Rafael Nadal 
in May. “Played well in Paris. In Halle I think the
performances were good. That’s why I’m confident for Wimbledon
now.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        