-- Colombia's Santos Hails Uribe After Landslide Presidential Win Over Mockus
-- Matthew Bristow
-- 2010-06-21T15:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/santos-seeks-landslide-win-in-colombia-as-world-cup-keeps-voters-at-home.html

          
          
             Colombia’s  Juan Manuel Santos , after
being elected president by a landslide last night, pledged to
free his country from the “nightmare of violence” by
sustaining all the government’s might against Marxist rebels.  
 The record 9 million  ballots  cast for Santos gave the U.S.-
educated economist and former defense minister 69 percent of the
vote against 28 percent for the Green Party’s  Antanas Mockus .  
 Santos dedicated the victory to President  Alvaro Uribe , who
leaves office Aug. 7 having spurred record economic growth and
investment while beating back insurgents and slashing by half
the number of murders during eight years in office.  
 “Colombians voted massively today for a government that
continues and advances your administration,” Santos told
supporters in Bogota last night. “If we have come far it’s
because we are standing on the shoulders of giants,” he said,
quoting 17th-century English scientist  Isaac Newton .  
 Santos’ victory will likely extend gains this week by the
peso, the world’s top-performing currency, and the benchmark
IGBC stock index, said  Julian Cardenas , chief economist at
Bogota-based brokerage Corredores Asociados SA.  
 The peso, whose 8.2 percent gain against the dollar this
year is the biggest among 172 currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
rose for a fourth straight week before yesterday’s vote as
Santos coasted to victory. The peso jumped 1 percent to 1,889.15
at 10:46 New York time.  
 The  IGBC , whose 7.7 percent gain this year is beating a 4.8
percent decline in the MSCI EM Latin America Index, rose 0.33
percent to 12,538.16.  
 “Santos won’t change the rules of the game,” Cardenas
said, adding that Santos’ pledge to deepen Uribe’s security
policies and not increase taxes will draw investment to the
country’s new oil wells and mines. “This win is a positive
signal for investors who have their sights on Colombia.”  
 Regional Wrangling  
 Santos, 58, delivered some of the biggest blows against the
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, while serving
as defense minister from 2006 to 2009. These include the rescue
of 15 hostages including politician  Ingrid Betancourt  and three
U.S. defense contractors. He also ordered the raid into Ecuador
that killed the group’s second-in-command,  Raul Reyes .  
 His most pressing challenge is improving relations with
Colombia’s neighbors, said Felipe Botero, a political science
professor at Bogota’s Universidad de los Andes.  
 Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  ordered troops to the
border in retaliation for the airstrike and cut off trade ties
with Colombia after Uribe inked a deal last year to increase
U.S. access to seven military bases. Exports to Venezuela,
traditionally Colombia’s biggest export market after the U.S.,
plunged 69 percent in April from the same month a year ago.  
 ‘Two Piranhas’  
 Santos has accused Chavez of allowing the FARC to stage
attacks from across the border, while the Venezuelan socialist
has attacked the president-elect as a “warmonger.” An
Ecuadorean prosecutor in April ordered Santos’ arrest.  
 “Chavez and Santos are like two piranhas in a tank
together,” said  Larry Birns , head of the Council on Hemispheric
Affairs, a Washington research group. “There will be every
opportunity for provocation and brinkmanship.”  
 Santos, who during the campaign vowed to invite Chavez to
his inauguration, said last night that “all the countries in
the world, and above all those in the region, can be sure that
in my government they will find an ally.”  
 Rebel Attack  
 Underscoring the rebels’ resilient strength in many rural
areas, seven police officers were killed in an ambush near the
border with Venezuela. Separately, two soldiers were killed in a
firefight with the FARC in Meta province.  
 Yesterday’s 44 percent turnout was the lowest since 1994,
as voters expecting Santos to rout Mockus stayed home to watch
the World Cup soccer tournament.  
 Santos, who won 47 percent in the first round against 21
percent for Mockus, has capitalized on the support of Uribe.  
 In 2002, the year Uribe took office, Colombians  suffered 
28,837 murders and 2,882 kidnappings. By 2009, those numbers had
been cut to 15,817 and 213 respectively. Uribe, a lawyer and
rancher, leaves office with a 63 percent approval rating.  
 Mockus, 58, leveraged his record as two-time mayor of
Bogota and a pledge to  sweep away corruption  to overtake Santos
in polls taken before the first round. However, the so-called
Green Wave faded after the former philosophy professor expressed
“admiration” for Chavez and said he would consider extraditing
Uribe to Ecuador.  
 “Starting today, the Green Party consolidates itself as a
political force,” Mockus, brandishing a pencil that was a
symbol of his campaign’s focus on education, told supporters
yesterday in Bogota.  
 Attacking Unemployment  
 Santos, a former finance minister and scion of the family
that founded the nation’s largest newspaper, Bogota’s  El Tiempo ,
focused his campaign on reducing a 12.4 percent  unemployment 
rate that is the highest in South America.  
 Colombia’s economy is recovering slower than its neighbors
from the global financial crisis, in part due to the trade row
with Chavez. The International Monetary Fund forecast in May
that South America’s fifth-largest economy will grow 2.2 percent
this year, the lowest in the region after Venezuela, which is in
recession.  
 The economy likely grew 3.4 percent in the first quarter,
according to the median estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg ahead of the first quarter GDP report on June 24.  
 Santos, a Harvard University-educated economist, promised
to close by 2014 a budget gap equal to 3.6 percent of gross
domestic product and achieve annual growth of 6 percent within
two years.  
 ‘No Excuses’  
 He’ll be assisted in the effort by a congressional majority
exceeding the one enjoyed by his former boss. Parties supporting
his candidacy won 68 of 102  Senate  seats in March congressional
elections, compared with 5 for the Green Party. The Liberal
Party, which had been the biggest opposition bloc to Uribe’s
government, is split on whether to support Santos.  
 There are “no excuses if Santos really wants to tackle”
fiscal reform and cut into the deficit,  Pedro Tuesta , senior
economist for Latin America at New York-based 4Cast Inc., wrote
in a note to clients.  
 His victory will also help woo international investors,
Tuesta said. The government expects foreign direct investment to
rise to $10 billion this year, the bulk in mining and energy
projects, from $7.2 billion in 2009.  
 Santos is likely to choose Juan Carlos Echeverry to be his
finance minister, Bank of America said in a report today. The
New York University-educated economist is the current president
of Econcept, a Colombian consulting firm, and a former Economic
Planning minister.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Bristow  in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Colombian President elect Juan Manuel Santos speaks to supporters in Bogota on June 20, 2010. Photographer: Eitan Abramovich/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
