-- Search Resumes for Mining Executives Lost on Plane in Africa
-- Jason Scott
-- 2010-06-21T07:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/search-for-sundance-executives-missing-in-africa-finds-nothing-conclusive.html

          
          
             The search for a missing plane
carrying executives from iron ore company Sundance Resources
Ltd., including millionaire mining magnate Ken Talbot, resumed
today over jungle in West Africa.  
 “We are, of course, very seriously concerned about the
welfare, well being and safety of the six Australian citizens
and the one Australian permanent resident on board,” Foreign
Minister Stephen Smith told parliament. The aircraft was
reported missing June 19 on a flight from Yaounde in Cameroon to
Yangadou in the Republic of Congo, Perth-based Sundance said.  
 Sundance is among companies exploring and building mines in
Africa, attracted by its mineral riches, including the world’s
biggest deposits of platinum, chrome and diamonds. The company
aims to complete an initial study for its $3.4 billion Mbalam
iron ore project in Cameroon by the end of 2010.  
 “The general search area is in the border area between
Cameroon and the Congo,” Smith said. “The plane made usual
procedural contact after 30 minutes of a one-hour flight.”  
 Sundance shares are suspended from trading in Sydney.
They’ve declined 7.1 percent in the past six months on the
Australian stock exchange, compared with a 1.8 percent drop in
the benchmark index. Talbot is a director of Sundance and its
largest shareholder.  
 The search resumed today, Sundance said at a media briefing
in Perth, according to a recording.  
 Nine People  
 The chartered aircraft was carrying nine people, including
five others from Sundance - Chairman Geoff Wedlock, Chief
Executive Officer Don Lewis, Company Secretary John Carr-Gregg
and non-executive directors John Jones and Craig Oliver. They
were on the way to visit the Mbalam project and hold meetings
with the governments of Cameroon and Congo.  
 “The whole team at Sundance below the chairman is well-
experienced in the mining industry,” Peter Strachan, a Perth-
based analyst for independent advisory company StockAnalysis,
said in a phone interview. “Charter flights are an occupational
hazard in the mining industry.”  
 Talbot is Australia’s 33rd richest person with a fortune of
A$965 million ($846 million), according to Business Review
Weekly’s annual Rich 200 list, published in May. His closely
held Talbot Group has investments in iron ore, uranium,
liquefied natural gas, copper, zinc, lead, molybdenum and
nickel.  
 He has been one of the most successful investors in
Australia in the past year, according to the BRW article, making
a 113 percent return on his shares. He’s listed among the top 20
shareholders in more than a dozen companies, it said.  
 Talbot founded Macarthur Coal Ltd. and built the company
into the world’s largest producer of pulverized coal used in
steelmaking, with a market value of A$3.2 billion.  
 Congo, Gabon  
 Work at Sundance’s operations in Cameroon has been
suspended, the company said yesterday. The governments of
Cameroon, Congo and Gabon are helping the search, Smith said.  
 Sundance’s Mbalam iron ore project includes a planned rail
and port operation. Construction is planned to start next year,
it said in a presentation this month. It has exploration permits
in Cameroon as well as Congo, where it has been drilling.  
 Sundance’s Chief Financial Officer Peter Canterbury has
assumed the role of acting chief executive officer and is
working with company advisers, the company said in a separate
statement.  
 Fixed wing aircraft and helicopters were used in
yesterday’s search, which found “nothing conclusive” in “very
difficult terrain,” Smith told Australian Broadcasting Corp.
“In addition to the above comprising six Australian and one
U.S. citizen, there were two other passengers, a French and
British citizen, along with a French and British pilot.”  
 Facing Trial  
 Talbot, twice married with four children, was charged in
2007 with corruptly making payments to a former state government
minister Gordon Nuttall between October 2002 and September 2005.
He is due to appear in Queensland’s District Court for a pre-
trial hearing on Aug. 9 on 35 charges, according to Queensland
Courts. Talbot is due to face trial in the District Court of
Brisbane at the end of August, according to his spokesman Derek 
Besier. He has pleaded not guilty, according to BRW magazine.  
 Wedlock, also chairman of Gindalbie Metals Ltd., worked at
BHP Billiton Ltd. for 32 years, according to Sundance’s website.
He also chairs Jupiter Mines Ltd. and Gladiator Resources Ltd.,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 He left his role as the chief executive officer of BHP’s
iron ore division in August 1997 and later that year became an
executive director at Portman Mining Ltd., since acquired by
Cleveland-based Cliffs Natural Resources Inc.  
 Lewis, Carr-Gregg  
 He was CEO of BHP’s iron ore division from 1996-97 and his
other roles included development of the Cannington silver, lead
and zinc mine in Queensland and the Syama gold mine in West
Africa, according to a Portman statement on his appointment.  
 Lewis, a civil engineer, was formerly managing director of
Multiplex Engineering and has more than 20 years experience in
the mining industry, according to Sundance’s website. Oliver, an
accountant, is also a director of De Grey Mining Ltd. and is
chief financial officer at Western Areas NL.  
 Carr-Gregg, a laywer, was general manager company
secretariat and commercial and company secretary at Aristocrat
Leisure Ltd. before joining Sundance. He has worked as an
attorney in New York, Sundance said.  
 Shares in Jupiter Mines were also suspended from trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        