-- Sex, Sleaze Star in 2010 U.S. Political Circus: Albert R. Hunt
-- 
-- 2010-06-20T15:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/sex-sleaze-star-in-2010-u-s-political-circus-commentary-by-albert-hunt.html

          
          
             In the U.S. federalist system,
states usually compete for business, federal funds or tourists.
This year, there is another fierce competition, as South
Carolina and  Nevada  do battle for the title of “State With the
Kookiest Politics.”  
 Elections in these states have been marked by crazy-quilt
charges of hypocrisy, sexual peccadilloes, candidates who face
felony charges and express way-out-of-the-mainstream views. The
Silver and Palmetto States are an antidote to those who worried
U.S. politics had become too programmed, predictable.  
 To be sure, today’s rascals aren’t as colorful as
yesterday’s, especially those in the South, with its tradition
of good ole boys, or the big cities, with their political
machines. Louisiana and  Illinois  were perpetual leaders.  
 Chicago featured leaders with names like “Fast Eddie,” or
there was the time a young reformer, Abner Mikva, walked into a
ward office to volunteer and was told, “we don’t want nobody
that nobody sent.” A local ward fundraising dinner was a
marvelous mixture of Damon Runyon and “The Godfather.” The
city council and state legislature often served as the farm
clubs for the state penitentiary.  
 In  Louisiana , even after the departure of Huey “Kingfish” Long and his brother “Uncle Earl,” there was Governor Edwin Edwards, who once declared he would lose his job only if he was
“found in bed with a dead girl or live boy.” After he was
acquitted in one criminal trial, it was revealed that some
members of the jury had stolen towels from the hotel where it
had been sequestered. Edwards concluded that he had been judged
by a “jury of my peers.” He now resides at a federal
correctional institution.  
 Blagojevich Trial  
 These states today are pale copies of those glory days. In
Illinois, former Governor  Rod Blagojevich , “Blago,” is
currently under indictment for allegedly trying to sell an
appointment to the U.S. Senate seat once held by President
 Barack Obama ; he’s more about antics than authenticity. From his
cell, Edwards surely sneered as Louisiana Republican Senator
 David Vitter , a self-styled religious conservative, trotted out
his wife when he had to acknowledge spending quality time with
hookers.  
 They can’t compete with Nevada or South Carolina, which
eight years ago put in the governor’s mansion the dynamically
attractive conservative Republican Mark Sanford, and his equally
bright and attractive wife. They sent out Kennedy-esque
Christmas cards with their four boys. Then last year, Sanford,
mysteriously missing, had to confess he had been with his
mistress in  Argentina .  
 Avoiding Impeachment  
 One reason he avoided impeachment by the Republican
legislature was that the next in line, Lieutenant Governor Andre Bauer, had his own eccentricities, most notably the night he was
caught driving more than 100 miles (160 kilometers) an hour on
the interstate highway and used his state-issued radio to say he
was on official business; he didn’t get a ticket.  
 Weeks before this month’s gubernatorial primary, the state
seemed finally headed to normalcy, with Republican frontrunner
Nikki Haley, an impressive, Indian-American state legislator.
Then two Republican operatives charged they had affairs with
Haley. Bauer and other Republicans, while professing their
outrage, called on Haley to take a lie-detector test about her
denials.  
 South Carolina  Democrats  
 The victorious Democratic candidate for the Senate seat was
the unknown Alvin Greene, an unemployed Army veteran facing a
pending felony charge for showing obscene photos to a University
of South Carolina student. He is rejecting pleas from party
leaders to step aside.  
 Then there’s Joe Wilson, the Republican House member who
last September screamed “you lie” to the president of the
 United States  during an address to a joint session of Congress.  
 Nevada is holding its own. Incumbent Governor Jim Gibbons
was defeated in a Republican primary, as his  behavior  ultimately
proved to be too out there for even this anything-goes state.  
 In 2006, a cocktail waitress accused him of sexual assault;
he said he caught her when she tripped. Then, in 2008, he kicked
his wife Dawn out of the governor’s mansion. In a filing for
divorce, she accused him of having an affair. He denied affairs,
either with a woman to whom he sent 867  text messages  or the
Playboy model he accompanied to a rodeo in Reno. The governor
insisted he hadn’t slept with anyone, his wife included, for 15
years. Separately, the lieutenant governor, Brian Krolicki, was
indicted for misappropriating funds, though the case was
dropped.  
 Ethics Panel Inquiry  
 It took Republican Senator  John Ensign , though, to put
Nevada in serious contention with South Carolina. While living
in a self-styled Christian group house on  Capitol Hill , he had
an affair with the wife of a top aide and allegedly sought to
cover it up. His parents gave $96,000 to the ex-employee, his
wife and two kids; Ensign called it severance pay, others hush
money. The figure seemed odd until it was disclosed that both of
Ensign’s parents gave $12,000 to each of the four members of the
aide’s family, the maximum allowed without having to file a gift
tax return with the  Internal Revenue Service . Ensign is under
investigation by the Senate Ethics Committee.  
 Then there is the race for Nevada’s other Senate seat. It
features Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , who Jon Ralston, the
top political analyst in the state, says is “about as popular
in Nevada as a sports betting ban.” The Democratic incumbent is
up against the upset winner of the Republican primary,
conservative activist Sharron Angle, who Ralston says is an
“out-of-the-mainstream loon.”  
 Smell the Tourists  
 Reid is a  Washington  insider who foolishly allowed his son
to run for governor on the same ticket this year, and has
frequent foot-in-mouth afflictions: In 2008, he welcomed the
construction of a new visitors’ center for Congress by saying
he’d no longer have to “smell” the tourists coming into the
Capitol.  
 He was a goner until the Republicans nominated Angle this
month. She wants the U.S. to withdraw from the  United Nations 
and privatize Social Security, calls the Department of Education
“unconstitutional” and has embraced the Church of
Scientology’s prison-drug treatment, which focuses on “sauna
and massage treatments” for inmates.  
 One upside to the kooky contests is that the elections this
year will be more entertaining; unless you live in South
Carolina or Nevada.  
 ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        