-- Sinopec, China's Airlines May Lead Share Gains After Pledge of Yuan Reform
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-20T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/sinopec-china-s-airlines-may-lead-share-gains-as-stronger-yuan-cuts-costs.html

          
          
             China’s airlines and commodities
companies, which would benefit from yuan gains that reduce the
cost of their overseas purchases, may lead stock gains after the
central bank signaled an end to the currency’s peg to the dollar.  
 The People’s Bank of China pledged to make the yuan more
flexible, while ruling out a one-time revaluation of the
currency that’s been held at about 6.83 yuan per dollar since
mid-2008. A stronger yuan would help airlines reduce dollar-
denominated fuel bills and debt incurred from buying Boeing Co.
and Airbus SAS planes. Raw materials costs for companies such as
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp.  would also fall.  
 Yuan-denominated shares in Shanghai and Shenzhen will rise
today as an appreciation of the currency will also help curb
inflation and bolster purchasing power in the world’s fastest-
growing major  economy , according to China International Capital
Corp. and Societe Generale SA. China’s benchmark  Shanghai
Composite Index  gained 2.5 percent the day after the nation
ended a decade-long peg to the dollar in July 2005.  
 “An appreciation in the yuan will reduce inflationary
pressures and benefit consumption by increasing purchasing
power,” said  Shi Bo , general manager of Shanghai Elegant
Investment Co., which oversees about $278 million in assets.
“On balance, a strong yuan is good for China’s efforts to
rebalance its economy away from exports to domestic
consumption.”  
 The central bank said June 19 that it will “increase the
renminbi’s exchange-rate flexibility” after the economy grew
11.9 percent in the first quarter.  
 Benefits Employment  
 An appreciation of the yuan, also known as the renminbi,
will benefit exporters and the nation’s employment situation
more than it hurts them, the central bank said in a statement. A
more flexible currency would also help to curb consumer-price
gains, asset bubbles and dependence on exports for growth, it
said.  
 After China’s revaluation of the yuan in July 2005,  China
Eastern Airlines Corp.  climbed 7.1 percent in Shanghai trading
and  China Southern Airlines Co.  rose 4.8 percent.  China
Petroleum & Chemical , also known as Sinopec, gained 5.8 percent.  
 “If it leads to appreciation for the yuan, it’s good news
for the market,”  Hao Hong , global equity strategist for CICC in
Beijing, said in a report yesterday. “Investors will want to
get into Chinese assets because they will be worth more.”  
 An appreciation of the yuan would benefit Chinese airlines,
 Luo Zhuping , China Eastern Airlines Corp.’s board secretary,
said in an interview yesterday. Foreign-currency debt accounts
for about 60 percent of the company’s total debt, Luo said. Yuan
gains “will help reduce the burden,” he said.  
 Biggest Boost  
 China Eastern, the nation’s second-biggest airline, would
get the biggest profit boost from yuan appreciation of the
country’s three largest carriers, Citigroup Inc. said in April.
China Southern, the biggest carrier, would gain most in absolute
terms as it has the largest debt and fleet, Citigroup analyst
 Ally Ma  said.  Air China Ltd.  would benefit least as it has the
highest proportion of overseas sales, Ma said.  
 Sinopec , Asia’s biggest refiner, would also benefit as 75
percent to 80 percent of oil it processes by volume is purchased
from overseas in U.S. dollars, spokesman  Huang Wensheng  said.  
 “If the ability of domestic consumers to take on higher
costs increases and the cost of our overseas purchases decreases,
then the result for us is an obvious one,” Huang said yesterday.  
 BHP, Rio Tinto  
 BHP Billiton Ltd. ,  Rio Tinto Group  and other raw materials
suppliers to China may also benefit as a stronger yuan reduces
the cost of importing commodities from overseas. The nation is
the world’s largest consumer of materials including iron ore,
copper and soy beans, and the second-biggest energy consumer.
Australian mining companies BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto are the
world’s largest iron ore suppliers.  
 “You’d have to nominate BHP and Rio Tinto as the two main
candidates to benefit,” said  Saxon Nicholls , a fund manager at
Herschel Asset Management Ltd. in Melbourne who helps oversee
$785 million. “We think it’s good for commodity prices
themselves. We also think it’s actually good for the value of
the commodity equities.”  
 As an appreciation of the yuan reduces the cost of
importing commodities, it may also make Chinese exports of
clothing, shoes and electronics less attractive, said  David Cohen , an economist at Action Economics in Singapore. Companies
that may be affected include  Shanghai Zhenhua Heavy Industry Co. 
and  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. , based in Taipei.  
 Zhenhua Heavy  
 Zhenhua Heavy , which makes port handling equipment, said
dollar-denominated receivables were 69 percent of its total
outstanding receivables at the end of 2009, according to its
annual report. The company’s shares fell 1.1 percent in Shanghai
trading after China revalued the yuan in July 2005. Calls to
Zhenhua Heavy’s offices during the weekend weren’t answered.  
 Hon Hai, which makes Apple Inc. iPhones and Hewlett-Packard
Co. computers in China, will see a “limited” impact on costs
as a result of a stronger yuan,  Edmund Ding , a spokesman for the
company, said in April. About 4 percent to 8 percent of Hon
Hai’s costs are in yuan, he said. Ding didn’t immediately
respond to calls to his mobile phone.  
 -- John Liu  and  Chua Kong Ho . With assistance from  Jin Jing  in
Shanghai,  Tim Culpan  in Taipei. Editors:  Mike Tighe ,  Linus Chua   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7011 or
 Kchua6@bloomberg.net 
John Liu in Beijing at +86-6649-7465 or
 jliu42@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A China Eastern Airlines airplane takes off from Beijing Capital International Airport in Beijing. Photographer: Stefen Chow/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
