-- SK Energy to Focus on Oil and Gas Drilling, Batteries for Future Growth
-- Shinhye Kang
-- 2010-06-20T01:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/sk-energy-will-focus-on-oil-drilling-electric-car-batteries-for-growth.html

          
          
             SK Energy Co. , South Korea’s
biggest refiner, said it will focus on producing oil and gas
overseas, developing electric-car batteries and making
petrochemicals with emissions-reduction technology to drive
future earnings.  
 “The current business model may not be able to boost the
company’s operating profit a lot from now,” Chief Executive
Officer  Koo Ja Young  told reporters on June 18. “Innovations
in the business model, and in technology, are needed.”  
 Refiners in South Korea, Asia’s largest fuel exporter, are
seeking new growth engines as expanding Chinese and Indian
suppliers cut profitability. SK Energy took the first step
toward reorganizing in October by turning its lubricants
division into a wholly owned  unit .  
 “This is very positive in the long term,” said  Cho Seung Yeon , an analyst at HMC Securities Co. “The reorganization
will let each division focus resources on its own business
while the parent boosts investment in new sectors.”  
 Starting next year, SK Energy will spin off petroleum and
chemicals divisions that accounted for 98 percent of overall
revenue in the first quarter. Ahead of the change, the refiner
has completed its first electric-car battery production line to
supply  Daimler AG’s  Japanese unit. SK Energy has also signed up
for 38 oil and natural-gas projects in 17 countries.  
 The petroleum and chemicals divisions, as they start off
as wholly owned units, may sell assets or form partnerships
with overseas companies to raise funds, Koo said.  
 The petroleum division posted an operating loss for three
consecutive quarters last year as the global financial crisis
cut demand and China and India increased shipments.  
 New Growth Engines  
 SK Energy has fallen 11 percent in Seoul trading this year,
compared with the 1.7 percent gain by the benchmark Kospi index.
The stock closed unchanged at 104,500 won on June 18.  
 The company’s smaller rival  GS Caltex Corp.  bought an
unlisted waste-treatment company in April, while S-Oil Corp.
may seek opportunities in alternative energy.  
 SK Energy plans to start up a 30 billion won ($25 million)
trial plant in October that can produce more olefins while
emitting less carbon dioxide than current facilities, Koo said.
The refiner is also developing technology to use carbon dioxide
as a raw material for producing plastics, he said.  
 “The technologies will help SK Energy reach its target of
100 trillion won in revenue before 2020, up from 35 trillion
won currently,” Koo said.  
 In energy exploration, the company is seeking rights to
overseas projects and may acquire exploration companies, the
chief executive said. SK Energy is producing 71,000 barrels of
oil equivalent a day currently.  
 The chemicals division may build ethane-based ethylene
plants in Latin America, including Peru and Colombia, Koo said
at the company’s Daejeon research & development center. SK
Energy has a stake in a gas project in Peru.  
 The company’s lubricants unit is in talks with a European
company and an Asian company to form joint ventures, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        