-- South Africa Has Last Interest Rate-Cut Hope as Prices Ease: Week Ahead
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-06-21T08:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/south-africa-has-last-interest-rate-cut-hope-as-prices-ease-week-ahead.html

          
          
             South African inflation is likely to
ease for a fifth month, giving the central bank what may be a
last chance to cut the key interest  rate  before higher wages
begin to push up the consumer price index from a four-year low.  
 Inflation  probably slowed to 4.6 percent in May from 4.8
percent in the previous month, according to the median estimate
of 21 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Statistics South Africa,
based in the capital, Pretoria, is due to publish the data at
11:30 a.m. local time on June 23.  
 A bumper corn crop and the rand’s gains in the first
quarter helped to bring inflation back inside the central bank’s
3 percent to 6 percent target range. That gave Governor  Gill Marcus  scope to lower the repurchase rate by half a percentage
point to 6.5 percent on March 25, the seventh reduction since
December 2008. The window for more cuts may be closing as
workers push for higher pay and electricity costs surge.  
 “The opportunity is there now,” said  Colen Garrow , an
economist at Brait SA in Johannesburg. “They shouldn’t wait.
The Reserve Bank should be forward-looking on its interest-rate
policy.”  
 The economy’s recovery may be undermined by stalling growth
in Europe, which buys almost a third of South African exports.
Another interest rate cut may help to spur consumer spending,
the source of two-thirds of economic expenditure, and help
weaken the rand, boosting export competitiveness, Garrow said.  
 Cool Growth Environment  
 “If the bottom fell out of Europe, we shouldn’t be too
surprised if the market starts scaling back its growth forecasts
for next year,” said Garrow. “We’re going into a very cool
growth environment.”  
 The rand advanced 1.7 percent against the dollar in the
first quarter, adding to its 28 percent surge last year. South
Africa’s benchmark rate compares with almost zero in many
developed countries, making local interest-bearing assets
attractive to foreign investors. Lower rates may help to dim the
appeal of those assets, curbing the currency’s gains.  
 The rand was at 7.4241 against the dollar as of 9:45 a.m.
in Johannesburg today.  
 The Reserve Bank expects the  economy  to expand 2.7 percent
this year and 3.6 percent in 2011, compared with a 1.8 percent
contraction in 2009. Growth accelerated to an annualized 4.6
percent in the first quarter, mainly due to a rebound in mining
and manufacturing output.  
 Europe Risk  
 Marcus said on May 20 that the European debt crisis may
undermine the recovery in South Africa and that rising
electricity costs was the main risk to inflation.  
 Since then, wage settlements have surged, adding to price
pressures. Workers at Transnet Ltd., the state-owned rail and
ports company, won an 11 percent pay increase following an 18-
day strike last month. Power utility Eskom Holdings Ltd. is
currently in talks with workers, offering to raise wages by 8
percent, while workers are demanding 15 percent.  
 The Reserve Bank will make its next interest rate decision
on July 22.  

 
Event                                             Date
Telkom South Africa Ltd. annual earnings          June 21
Tiger Brands Ltd. annual general meeting          June 21
Remgro Ltd. annual earnings                       June 22
Argent Industrial Ltd. annual earnings            June 22
Non-farm jobs data for first quarter              June 22
Hyprop Investment Ltd. annual general meeting     June 22
Consumer-price inflation                          June 23
Current account deficit                           June 24
Producer-price inflation                          June 24
Avusa Ltd. annual earnings                        June 24
 
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        