-- BOK to Weigh Inflation, Europe Risk in Setting South Korea Rates, Kim Says
-- Eunkyung Seo
-- 2010-06-20T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/south-korea-central-bank-to-weigh-inflation-europe-risks-in-setting-rates.html

          
          
             The Bank of Korea will weigh the
twin dangers of rising inflationary pressure and the impact of
the European crisis on the global economic recovery as it sets
interest rates, Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said.  
 “If the present accommodative policy continues for long,
it may spark inflation or asset price bubbles,” Kim said in a
speech prepared for a local forum with economists and business
leaders today in Seoul. “At the same time, the European fiscal
crisis may pose a downside risk for the global economy. We need
to make a balanced consideration.”  
 Kim’s remarks echo those of government officials in recent
days, who have signaled a shift in their stance after being
outspoken this year in stating it was too early for the BOK to
raise  rates . The Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said last week that inflation risks mean the
central bank should start raising borrowing costs.  
 The economic recovery and growing worries about inflation
prompted investors to bet rates may rise as early as July. The
one-year treasury bond yield has jumped 17 basis points since
June 9 to reach a three-month high of 2.94 percent on June 18.  
 Kim said in the statement that he expects consumer
inflation will accelerate from the current 2 percent level as
the economy grows by its full potential and public service fees
rise. Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  voiced similar concerns
last week, saying inflation may quicken more than expected in
the second half, with the economy seen growing faster than 5
percent this year.  
 Inflation Target  
 Consumer prices  rose 2.7 percent in May, accelerating from
a 2.6 percent gain a month earlier, as the cost of food and oil
increased. The central bank is targeting an inflation rate of
between 2 percent and 4 percent, on average, for the three
years to 2012.  
 South Korea’s expansion will “remain on track” with
economic growth of 5.8 percent this year and 4.7 percent in
2011 as exports soar and local demand strengthens, the OECD
said.  Gross domestic product  grew 2.1 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months. The government plans to
revise its 5 percent growth forecast on June 24. The central
bank projects 5.2 percent.  
 Yoon signaled a shift in the government’s stance on risks
facing the economy on June 14, saying that “balance is most
important for the second half” and policy makers “have to
sustain economic growth while curbing potential inflation
pressures.”  
 The government’s change, and calls for higher borrowing
costs, reflects South Korea’s resilience so far to Europe’s
debt crisis, with the rebound pulling  unemployment  down to a
19-month low in May.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        