-- Hungarian Consumer Confidence Pushes Economic Sentiment to Four-Year High
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-06-20T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/hungarian-consumer-confidence-pushes-economic-sentiment-to-four-year-high.html

          
          
             Hungarian  economic sentiment  rose
for a seventh month in June to the highest in four years as
consumers were the most optimistic since April 2006, indicating
a recovery from the recession may be gathering pace.  
 The index rose to minus 12.9 in June, the highest since May
2006, from minus 14 in May and a record-low minus 46.2 in April
2009, market research company  GKI  said in an e-mailed statement
today. Business confidence fell to minus 9.2 from minus 8.8 and
the consumer index rose to minus 23.4 from minus 28.7, the best
reading since April 2006.  
 The improvement in overall sentiment is the result of an
“outstanding rise in consumer sentiment,” GKI said. The consumer
survey was conducted before the Hungarian currency’s plunge this
month, while businesses were typically interviewed after the
forint dropped, GKI said.  
 Hungary rattled financial markets in June after officials
from the ruling Fidesz party raised the prospect of default and
claimed that the previous government had lied about the
finances. The comments pushed the forint to its weakest level in
a year and led to the steepest rise in borrowing costs since
2008.  
 Measures announced by Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ,
including spending cuts and a tax on financial institutions,
helped contain the selloff. The forint firmed 3.1 percent versus
the euro since it hit its weakest level this year on June 4,
following the comments. The currency is still weaker than before
the comments were made.  
 In June, industrial expectations deteriorated, especially
among small- and medium-size companies, GKI said. Willingness to
hire worsened in the industrial and construction sectors and
improved palpably in the services industry.  
 The outlook for the economy, which has improved since the
beginning of the year, took a turn for the worse in June among
businesses except for those in retail, GKI said.  
 Sentiment in Hungary started plummeting toward record lows
in the second half of 2006 after the government raised taxes and
cut subsidies to narrow the  budget deficit , the widest in the
European Union at the time.  Gross domestic product  shrank 6.3
percent last year, the most since 1991.  
 The GKI indexes are calculated based on a balance of
positive and negative answers to questions about the outlook for
the economy.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 Ebalazs1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        