-- Hungary May Hold Key Interest Rate for Second Month on Inflation Outlook
-- Zoltan Simon
-- 2010-06-21T06:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/hungary-may-hold-key-interest-rate-for-second-month-on-inflation-outlook.html

          
          
             Hungary’s central bank will probably
keep the  benchmark interest rate  unchanged today for a second
month because of concern that energy prices will boost inflation
and as investors await details of a plan to cut the budget gap.  
 The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  will keep the  benchmark two-week
deposit rate  at 5.25 percent, the lowest since communism ended
20 years ago, according to 15 of 16 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. One predicts a reduction to 5 percent. The decision will
be announced at 2 p.m. in Budapest.  
 Hungary halted 10 months of rate cuts last month after
concern that Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s new government will
loosen fiscal policy weakened the forint. The cabinet reversed
course and pledged to meet the country’s creditor-approved
budget-deficit target. The central bank increased its  inflation 
forecast on May 31 on the effects of rising energy prices.  
 “Given the inflation outlook and remaining fiscal risks
until the 2011 deficit target is declared, we expect that the
Monetary Council will keep rates on hold,” Budapest-based
Citigroup Inc. economist  Eszter Gargyan  said in an e-mail.  
 Forint, CDS  
 The forint has weakened 0.7 percent against the euro since
the last rate meeting on May 31 and traded at 277.07 at 8:25
a.m. today. It dropped as low as 290.52 on June 7 after
officials from the ruling party compared Hungary with Greece and
said that the previous government lied about public finances.  
 Hungary’s five-year credit-default swaps, measuring the
cost of insuring against a default, fell to 302.335 on June 18
from 410.235 on June 4.  
 The central bank last month raised its  inflation  forecast
to 4.9 percent from 4.4 percent for this year and to 3 percent
from 2.3 percent in 2011. The bank estimates inflation will slow
to its 3 percent target in the first half of 2011, instead of
the second half of this year, with a 2.9 percent average rate in
2012.  
 Investors’ rate-cut expectations were erased after the
increased inflation forecast and the forint’s drop following the
comments comparing Hungary with Greece.  
 The six-month forward rate agreement was 0.01 percentage
point higher than the current benchmark, rising above it on June
4 for the first time since April 2009. On the day of the last
rate decision, the forward rate was 0.23 percentage point lower
than the key rate, signaling a bet for a reduction of a quarter-
point by November.  
 Budget Cuts  
 The comments about Hungary’s public finances fed concerns
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis may be spreading. Germany, France
and Spain were among countries that announced budget cuts to
shore up investor confidence.  
 Orban on June 9 said he plans to raise 187 billion forint
($825 million) this year from a special tax on financial
institutions to plug budget holes and reduce the shortfall to
3.8 percent of gross domestic product from 4 percent last year.
He plans to cut public spending while reducing taxes on personal
income and small businesses to boost growth.  
 The government is freezing 40 billion forint in state
spending at all eight ministries and several public agencies,
according to the official gazette Magyar Kozlony’s issue for the
period through July 18. Orban plans to save 120 billion forint
this year by freezing public spending and reducing aggregate
state wages by 15 percent.  
 Investors are now looking for the government to start
implementing the plans,  Gyorgy Barta , an economist at Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA in Budapest, said in a research note. The target
was approved by the  International Monetary Fund  and the European
Union, which gave the bulk of a 20 billion-euro bailout ($25
billion) to Hungary in 2008 to help it avert default.  
 “Domestic risks such as risks related to the economic
policy of the new cabinet and also fiscal risks due to weak
economic performance still loom and may diminish only gradually
as the new government’s program progresses,” Barta said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        