-- Emanuel Says U.S. Pushed BP to Be More Aggressive on Oil Spill
-- Joshua Gallu
-- 2010-06-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/white-house-pushed-bp-to-be-more-aggressive-on-gulf-spill-emanuel-says.html

          
          
             The Obama administration “forced”
 BP Plc  to take more aggressive steps to deal with the oil spill
in the Gulf of Mexico, White House Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel 
said when asked about the government’s response to the nation’s
worst environmental disaster on ABC’s “This Week.”  
 The Obama administration pushed BP to deploy new
containment measures, demanded two relief wells be drilled
instead of one and forced the company to agree to a $20 billion
relief fund, Emanuel said on the ABC program.  
 “BP originally was going to do one relief well. We forced
them to do a second relief well. They weren’t going to do
that,” Emanuel said. There were “a lot of things that they had
to be pushed to do. And pushed to do faster, more of,” Emanuel
said.  
 The BP well is gushing as much as 60,000 barrels of oil a
day, according to a government estimate. The spill, which has
washed ashore in four states, was caused by an April 20
explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that killed 11
workers.  
 BP recovered 24,500 barrels of oil from the well June 19,
the company said. Emanuel said he expects the company to be able
to capture about 90 percent of the leaking oil by the middle of
next month.  
 Bottlenecks Inevitable  
 The federal government has mobilized more than 6,000 ships
and 25,000 workers in response to the spill, Emanuel said, while
saying there would be problems in any government operation so
large.  
 “Given the size and the magnitude of what we’re dealing
with there are going to be problems, there are going to be
bottlenecks,” he said.  
 Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Democrat from Louisiana, said on
NBC’s “Meet the Press” that the Obama administration “was a
little slow off the block,” and now they “are getting their
legs underneath them.”  
 Efforts to contain and clean up the spill should be
coordinated by the U.S. Navy, Senators  Barbara Boxer  and  Bill Nelson  said yesterday on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” The clean up
requires a “military command and control” to make more
immediate progress on containing the damage, said Nelson, a
Florida Democrat.  
 Emanuel also criticized BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  for attending a yacht race off the coast of England this
weekend, saying it was “part of a long line of PR gaffes and
mistakes.”  
 “We can all conclude that Tony Hayward is not going to
have a second career in PR consulting,” Emanuel said on ABC.  
 ‘Shakedown’ Comment  
 Emanuel said remarks this week by Republican Representative
 Joe Barton  of Texas, who called the $20 billion clean-up fund a
“shakedown” of the oil company, illustrate the choice voters
will face in the November congressional elections.  
 Barton, who later apologized for his comments, would become
chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee were Republicans
to take back control of the House of Representatives.  
 “That is a philosophy,” Emanuel said. “They see the
aggrieved party here is BP, not the fishermen.”  
 Richard Shelby , the Republican Senator from Alabama, said
Barton’s statement was “dumb” and did not represent
“mainstream” Republican opinion. Barton “only spoke for
himself,” Shelby said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  
 Election Issue  
 Democrats are “going to try to make anything but this oil
spill” an election issue,  Haley Barbour , the Republican
governor of Mississippi and a former chairman of the Republican
National Committee, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program.
“They want to change the subject.”  
 Barbour also said the federal government “has done more
right than wrong,” and praised the administration’s work on the
compensation fund.  
 “We want to make sure BP stays in business” so the
company generates the revenue needed to compensate victims,
Barbour said on NBC. “BP is the responsible party. We expect
them to pay for everything.”  
 Anh Joseph Cao, a Republican congressman from Louisiana,
said a moratorium on offshore drilling may cost the state as
much as 60,000 jobs. To prevent the job losses, the temporary
ban could be limited to the final extraction of crude, which
would allow other stages of drilling to continue as the dangers
are studied without risking further spills, Cao, speaking on
CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  
 Emanuel, who as a member of the House ran the Democratic
party’s campaign committee, said he expects Democrats to lose
seats in this year’s elections, though it is too early in the
year to estimate how many.  
 “I do know politics well enough to say this. Anybody that
tells you sitting here in the middle of June how many the number
is, doesn’t know anything about politics,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Boom is deployed to contain oil in Perdido Bay in Orange Beach, Alabama. Photographer: Kari Goodnough/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel listens to speak in the Rose Garden of the White House in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel listens to speak in the Rose Garden of the White House in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
