-- Twin Baghdad Car Bombs At Least 27 People Outside State-Owned Trade Bank
-- Nayla Razzouk
-- 2010-06-20T16:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/twin-baghdad-car-bombs-kill-18-injure-42-outside-state-owned-trade-bank.html

          
          
             Two simultaneous suicide bombings
today targeted the state-owned  Trade Bank of Iraq , said
Brigadier General Qassim Atta, spokesman for the Baghdad
Military Command.  
 At least 27 people were killed in the car bombings that
devastated the facade of the bank, which is responsible for the
promotion of foreign trade, the Associated Press reported. The
bombings came a week after at least 15 people died when al-Qaeda
suicide bombers and gunmen stormed the  Central Bank of Iraq .  
 Explosive experts said the bombings were carried out by two
suicide attackers in two cars, according to Atta. Each vehicle
was loaded with 80 kilograms (176 pounds) of aluminum nitrate,
he said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The force of the blasts tore the glass facade off the
three-story building, leaving chairs and desks exposed, AP said.
The explosives-packed cars were parked a few hundred yards apart
when they blew up shortly after 11 a.m. as the area was crowded
with people at the start of the work week, AP said.  
 The attacks were described as “an act of terrorism” by
Atta, who earlier said 18 people had been killed and 42 wounded.  
 Violence in Iraq has grown after the March 7 parliamentary
elections produced no clear winner, though attacks haven’t
reached the levels of 2006-2007, when the country tipped toward
civil war.  
 Banks, Jewelry Stores  
 Several vehicles in the neighborhood were damaged by the
explosions, Atta said. On May 17, Atta said al-Qaeda has been
targeting banks and jewelry stores in Iraq because of financial
difficulties.  
 The Trade Bank of Iraq will be open tomorrow after the
attack, which left five of the institution’s guards dead and six
others wounded, Chairman  Hussein Al-Uzri  said in a statement.  
 “The work of building Iraq’s economic strength -- which
the Trade Bank of Iraq is doing so much, and very successfully,
to support, and in which we are making significant progress year
by year -- goes on uninterrupted, as does the work of the bank,
which will be open for business tomorrow,” he said.  
 The U.S. is preparing to scale back its military force in
Iraq from about 90,000 to 50,000 by the end of August, with a
complete withdrawal of combat troops next year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
 Kadhim Ajrash  in Baghdad at 
 kadhimajrash@yahoo.com .  
          
          


  


        