-- FIFA May Drop Referee Who Ruled Out U.S. Goal Against Slovenia
-- Christopher Elser
-- 2010-06-21T10:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/world-cup-soccer-organizer-fifa-may-drop-referee-who-ruled-out-u-s-goal.html

          
          
             Soccer’s governing body left
World Cup referee Koman Coulibaly -- who disallowed a goal that
might have given the U.S. victory against Slovenia last week --
off its next list of World Cup match officials.  
 Coulibaly ruled out a strike from substitute Maurice Edu
that would have given the U.S. a 3-2 lead. The Americans, who
had come back from two goals down, surrounded the Malian
referee, demanding an explanation. Television replays showed the
U.S. players weren’t offside, and there were no obvious fouls by
Americans, although several were being held by Slovenia players.  
 The latest list, announced by FIFA in an e-mailed
statement, covers games on June 22 and 23.  
 Coulibaly’s absence doesn’t necessarily mean he’s been
excluded from the World Cup tournament, which ends July 11. FIFA
announces match-official appointments as the competition
unfolds. FIFA won’t make an announcement on Coulibaly
individually.  
 The ruling body wouldn’t comment on Coulibaly’s case
yesterday, and said that the referee committee “has not yet
taken a definite decision” on whether officials who don’t make
the list for the last group stage matches will be sent home. The
head of FIFA’s refereeing department and some officials will
meet with the media today.  
 “Jose Maria Garcia Aranda will be available to meet the
media at the end of the Open Day, but will again not comment on
single referees’ decisions,”  FIFA  said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 ‘Good Goal’  
 Coulibaly was the fourth official in yesterday’s 1-1 tie
between Italy and New Zealand, responsible for keeping the time
and duties such as substitutions. His inclusion in that crew was
announced June 18, the day of the U.S.-Slovenia match.  
 The U.S., ranked 14th by soccer’s ruling body, hasn’t asked
FIFA for an explanation of Coulibaly’s call and, in any event,
on-field decisions aren’t reviewable.  
 U.S. coach  Bob Bradley  said the team had moved beyond the
incident.  
 “It was a good goal,” the coach told reporters the day
after the match. “The only things that could be called are
penalty kicks for us. You can speculate about which guy and
everything. I think it’s a waste of time. There was nothing
there. It was a good goal.”  
 First Language  
 Coulibaly, 39, has been an international referee since
1999. The finance inspector’s first language is Bambara, and he
also speaks English and French, according to FIFA’s website.
He’s overseen matches in the Africa Cup of Nations, the
continent’s tournament for national teams.  
 Going into the final day of the  group stage , the U.S. is
tied with England with 2 points, but has an advantage since it’s
scored two more goals. Slovenia leads with 4 points, while
Algeria, the next opponent for the Americans, has 1. Slovenia
and England will also meet June 23. Two teams advance, with the
U.S., Slovenia and England each knowing a victory would secure a
spot in the last 16.  
 The World Cup is often the location of refereeing
controversy. In 2006, English referee  Graham Poll  was sent home
before the quarterfinals after mistakenly giving Croatia’s  Josip Simunic  three yellow cards during a match. He quit international
tournaments.  
 Poll’s mistake in Croatia’s 2-2 draw against Australia
could have led to the game being replayed. He showed Simunic a
second yellow card in the final 10 minutes in Stuttgart but
failed to follow the rules and give him a red card. Poll finally
brandished a red card after the third yellow following the final
whistle.  
 Poll’s error didn’t involve his judgment, and so could have
been reviewed and overturned.  
 Among other controversies, Welsh referee Clive Thomas
disallowed a goal by Zico at the 1978 World Cup, blowing the
whistle for full time just before the Brazilian’s header entered
the net. It could have been a winning goal against Sweden.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in Johannesburg at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Michael Bradley and Jozy Altidore of the United States dispute a decision with Referee Koman Coulibaly during the 2010 FIFA World Cup. Photographer: Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
