-- Yuan Move Has U.S. Spenders, German Savers Tilting World GDP
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-06-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/yuan-move-by-china-leaves-u-s-spenders-german-savers-tilting-world-gdp.html

          
          
             China’s biggest shift in currency
policy in almost two years is just one step on the path toward
recalibrating the forces needed to drive the world economy into
a sustainable expansion.  
 “Even if China allows a significant appreciation in the
exchange rate, this still isn’t a panacea for imbalances,” said
 Kenneth Rogoff , an economics professor at Harvard University in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, and a former chief economist at the
International Monetary Fund. The move is “far from completely
solving the problem,” he said in a phone interview yesterday.  
 With so-called rebalancing on the agenda for this week’s
Group of 20 summit in Toronto, China’s June 19 signal that it
will allow a more flexible yuan still leaves it and Germany
under international pressure to spur domestic demand and on the
U.S. to become thriftier. Failure to force change in the
behavior of consumers and companies risks leaving the global
economy reliant on spending by Americans and savings elsewhere,
a mix blamed for triggering the global recession.  
 “You’re trying to turn back decades of inherent bias
towards over-consumption in the U.S. and under-consumption in
China, Japan and Germany,” said  Jim O’Neill , chief economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., in a phone interview from St.
Petersburg. “For now, maybe China can hold its head higher than
the others. It’s a sign that it’s perhaps easier to do these
things by diktat than by democracy.”  
 Costlier Exports  
 Should China honor its pledge to end the currency’s two-
year-old peg to the dollar, a rising yuan may help correct
international trade imbalances by making Chinese  exports 
costlier and those of other nations cheaper to consumers in the
world’s third-largest economy.  
 A 5 percent increase in the yuan’s value against the dollar
would improve the overall U.S. trade deficit, at $378.6 billion
in 2009, by about a fifth and narrow the U.S. trade gap with
China by $61 billion, according to an April study by economist
 Joseph Francois  of Johannes Kepler University in Linz, Austria.
O’Neill said he expects such a gain by the end of the year.  
 “China can now credibly argue that the mechanism is in
place for continued rebalancing of the global economy and less
distortions in global trade,” said  Glenn Maguire , chief Asian
economist at Societe General SA in Hong Kong, in a report.  
 ‘Pattern of Growth’  
 That process had appeared to flag in the nine months since
the G-20 leaders announced in Pittsburgh that they would pursue
policies to “establish a pattern of growth across countries
that is more sustainable and balanced.” Having begun to correct
during the recession, the U.S. trade deficit widened in April to
the most since December 2008 and China’s exports jumped the most
in six years in May. Germany’s monthly trade balance hasn’t
recorded a deficit since 1991.  
 The U.S. savings rate was 3.6 percent of gross domestic
product in April, according to Commerce Department figures. That
compares with Germany’s rate of about 11 percent as measured by
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  
 China’s savings rate stood at 54 percent in 2008, the
highest among major economies, World Bank data show. After last
year overtaking the U.S. as the biggest auto market and Germany
as the largest exporter, China is poised to surpass Japan this
year as the second-largest economy.  
 More Treasuries  
 The country raised its holdings of U.S. Treasury notes and
bonds by 2.6 percent to $900.2 billion in April from the
previous month, after reducing its stake by 6.5 percent from
November through March, the longest consecutive monthly decline
in a decade, the U.S. Treasury data showed June 15.  
 National leaders say they want to reverse such trends to
avoid a repeat of the last expansion, when U.S. consumers relied
on borrowing to fund demand, fanning an Asian export boom. As
China and others accumulated dollars from trade surpluses, they
bought U.S. debt and depressed global yields. Lower borrowing
costs helped stoke the U.S. housing and credit booms that turned
to bust in 2007.  
 “Our ability to achieve a durable global recovery depends
on our ability to achieve a pattern of global demand that avoids
the weaknesses of the past,” President  Barack Obama  said in a
June 16 letter to his G-20 counterparts. “Significant
weaknesses exist across G-20 economies.”  
 Spending at Home  
 Sealing those fault lines requires countries such as China
and Germany to transform their economies so they are driven less
by foreign demand and more by spending at home, said  Stephen Roach , Asia Chairman at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong. By
contrast, those economies where imports outweigh exports, such
as in the U.S., must consolidate budget deficits and bolster
household savings, he said.  
 China’s currency shift “is not a panacea for an unbalanced
global economy,” said Roach in an e-mail.  
 U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said after
China’s announcement that the immediate test is how fast and far
it allows the yuan to rise after keeping it at about 6.83 per
dollar since July 2008. The People’s Bank of China ruled out a
one-time revaluation, saying there is no basis for “large-scale
appreciation,” and preserved the yuan’s 0.5 percent daily
trading band.  
 That may not placate U.S. lawmakers, who have threatened to
levy trade tariffs on China for using its exchange rate to
protect exporters, said  Simon Johnson , another former IMF chief
economist and now a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology’s Sloan School of Management in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, in an e-mail.  
 Other Currencies  
 “The Americans should not be happy with this at all
because everyone agrees that the renminbi should appreciate at
least 10 percent,” said Johnson, using another term for the
yuan.  
 The step is also aimed more at managing the yuan against
other currencies, particularly the sliding euro, than the
dollar, said  Donald Straszheim , director of China research at
International Strategy & Investment Group in New York. The euro
has fallen about 13 percent against the yuan and the dollar this
year amid Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, threatening European
demand for Chinese products.  
 “The value of the currency is going to continue to be made
in Beijing, not the markets,” said Straszheim. “This won’t be
satisfactory to anyone that favors market-determined outcomes.”  
 The yuan’s appreciation may be limited to 1.9 percent
against the dollar this year as the euro’s slump hurts
exporters, a survey of economists showed after China’s
announcement.  
 Growth vs Savings  
 The yuan shift may nevertheless intensify pressure on other
G-20 countries to show they’re also acting in the global
interest. Instead, Obama is signaling that his priority remains
growth, not saving, as he urges Congress to act on proposals to
boost lending and grant tax breaks for small business. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  says her focus is on cutting Germany’s
budget deficit.  
 “China has effectively shifted the debate right before the
G-20 meeting and it can argue that the leaders should focus on
the major determinants of global imbalances, especially the
buildup of debt in advanced economies,” said  Eswar Prasad , a
senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington, who
previously headed the IMF’s China division.  
 Morgan Stanley’s Roach said he is concerned by
“asymmetrical rebalancing,” in which China moves faster than
its trading rivals, leaving the U.S. requiring a falling dollar
or rising bond yields to lure the capital required to plug its
savings gap.  
 “Beijing’s shift is an indication of a greater commitment
to global rebalancing than that currently evident in Washington
and elsewhere,” said Roach.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     China’s biggest shift in currency policy in almost two years is just one step on the path toward recalibrating the forces needed to drive the world economy into a sustainable expansion. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Colquhoun, director at Fitch Ratings Asia-Pacific sovereign group, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for Japan's credit rating and fiscal policy.
     Colquhoun, speaking from Tokyo, also discusses China's shift in currency policy, and its implications for the nation's economy. The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Ben Simpfendorfer, chief China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Hong Kong, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about China's yuan policy.
     China’s yuan climbed the most in 18 months against the dollar after the central bank signaled it would end a two-year peg. The People’s Bank of China said on June 19 it will allow greater “flexibility.” Yesterday, it ruled out “large changes” in the exchange rate and said it will prevent “excessive” moves. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
