-- Yuan Unshackled May Aid China Shift to Domestic Demand
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-21T03:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/yuan-unshackled-may-strengthen-china-s-shift-to-domestic-demand-for-growth.html

          
          
             China’s signal of an end to the
yuan’s fixed rate to the dollar may accelerate a shift toward
domestic demand as the prime driver of growth as President  Hu Jintao  seeks to strengthen household incomes.  
 The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s
abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the
global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while
there’s no basis for “large scale” moves in the currency, the
exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.”  
 A stronger yuan will boost the purchasing power of China’s
households that have helped propel  imports to a record level ,
and companies from  Orient Paper Inc.  to  Air China Ltd.  that
purchase goods from overseas. The lift adds to trends already
under way that are stoking wages, as workers demand higher
paychecks from employers including Honda Motor Co.  
 “Over a longer time, today’s announcement opens the door
for increased yuan appreciation that will help adjust China’s
economy towards a consumption-driven economy,” said  Ma Jun ,
chief China economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Hong Kong, who is a
former researcher for China’s State Council, or Cabinet, and
used to work at the International Monetary Fund.  
 The Chinese central bank made its announcement at 7 p.m.
Beijing time on June 19 in a posting on its website, a week
before leaders from the Group of 20 meet in Toronto.  
 Economic Restructuring  
 The PBOC said in a follow-up statement yesterday that a
more flexible currency will “direct resources to domestic-
demand driven sectors such as services” and help curb an
excessive reliance on  exports , signaling it anticipates the
currency will rise. It advanced 0.2 percent to 6.81 as of 11:30
a.m. in Shanghai, the most since December 2008.  
 “This is a catalyst for change” because exporters will be
forced to speed productivity gains, while rising incomes will
stoke the retail industry, said  Jing Ulrich , chairwoman of China
equities and commodities at JPMorgan Chase & Co., in an
interview with Bloomberg Television.  
 Ulrich said domestic consumption stocks, such as Li Ning
Co., a Beijing-based sports-shoe and clothing maker, China
Dongxiang (Group) Co., a sportswear-apparel retailer and
Beijing-based department-store chain Parkson Retail Group Ltd.
will benefit. “Renminbi-based assets should be worth a lot more
in U.S. dollars a few years down the road.”  
 Managed Float  
 Authorities will resume a managed float of the yuan, also
known as the renminbi, against a basket of currencies, according
to the June 19 statement. Before the exchange rate was frozen in
July 2008, Premier  Wen Jiabao’s  government had allowed a 21
percent advance versus the dollar over three years.  
 While the International Monetary Fund reaffirmed its view
that the currency is “substantially” undervalued, analysts at
banks from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc predicted gains in the coming year will be held to
less than 6 percent. The median of 14 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey indicates a rise to 6.7 by Dec. 31.  
 The small move anticipated in coming months means there
will be limited impact on the economy in the short term, said Ma
at Deutsche Bank. At the same time, exchange-rate strengthening
will likely over time lead to greater household purchasing power,
according to the Washington-based IMF, which conducts annual
reviews of its member economies.  
 Inflation Aid  
 Yuan flexibility may damp inflation,  John Lipsky , the
fund’s No. 2 official, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
Consumer prices rose 3.1 percent in May from a year before,
exceeding the government’s 3 percent target average for 2010.  
 “It’s a win-win for China,”  Nicholas Lardy , a senior
fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington, said on Bloomberg Television. It may ease trade
tensions, while also supporting “the structural adjustment that
they’ve wanted now for several years -- less investment going
into the export sector, more to satisfy domestic demand.”  
 A stronger currency will benefit Chinese paper makers as
the costs of pulp imports will drop. That’s particularly true as
exports aren’t an important part of the business, according to
 Winston Yen , chief financial officer for Hebei, China-based
Orient Paper, speaking in April.  
 It would also be a boon to China Southern Airlines Co.,
China Eastern Airlines Corp. and Air China by cutting dollar-
denominated fuel bills and the cost of debt payments for
purchases of Boeing Co. and Airbus SAS planes, according to  Ally Ma , an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in Hong Kong.  
 Accelerating Growth  
 The yuan decision follows a strengthening in China’s
economy that saw gross domestic product expand 11.9 percent in
the first quarter from the same period of 2009. Surging
industrial production, exports, retail sales and property prices
have sparked concern of an overheating that may end in a bust.  
 U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  had advocated
yuan flexibility as a means of addressing China’s price
pressures, outside of the argument of American lawmakers that
the yuan peg was an unfair subsidy for China’s exporters.  
 In an indication of confidence in the U.S., China increased
holdings of Treasury notes and bonds by 2.6 percent to $900.2
billion in April from the previous month, after reducing its
stake by 6.5 percent from November through March, according to
U.S. data released June 15.  
 China’s leaders are aiming to buttress domestic incomes and
reduce reliance on exports that collapsed during the crisis,
culminating in a record 26 percent drop in shipments in May 2009
from a year earlier.  
 No ‘Panacea’  
 A more flexible yuan “is not a panacea” for global trade
imbalances,  Stephen Roach , chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd.,
said in an e-mail. Countries with large savings, such as China,
“still need to take additional actions to stimulate internal
private consumption,” he said.  
 In the past 10 years, China’s economy became more
unbalanced, with consumption’s share of GDP falling to 35
percent last year from 45 percent in 2000, according to Societe
Generale SA. Now, a rebalancing “seems to be occurring by
default” as labor shortages in coastal provinces encourage wage
gains that will boost consumer spending,  Glenn Maguire , a Hong
Kong-based economist for the bank, said in a report last week.  
 “Consumer spending won’t see significant  advances  unless
the government effectively reduces people’s precautionary
savings for education, health care and old age,” said  Liu Li- Gang , a Hong Kong-based economist at Australia and New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd.  
 Regional Development  
 The State Council earlier this month approved a program to
map out development strategies for each of the nation’s regions,
the official Xinhua news agency reported June 12. President Hu
plans to convene a meeting to discuss how to narrow the income
gap later in the year, the Hong Kong-based newspaper South China
Morning Post reported over the weekend.  
 More than 20 provinces and cities have overseen increases
in minimum wages in recent months to help support incomes, and a
focus of the 4 trillion yuan ($586 billion) stimulus package on
boosting inland regions has helped reduce reliance on the
export-linked coast.  
 Manufacturers including Ningbo-based Dejin Textile Co.,
Shanghai-based China Crown Textile Co. and Shenzhen Jufeng
Handicraft Co. have said the development of internal regions,
such as Chongqing, has made it harder for them to attract
migrant workers to factories on the east coast.  
 Meantime, employees in foreign-owned plants have been
demanding higher compensation. Honda, Japan’s No. 2 carmaker,
raised pay by 24 percent at a parts-making factory in Foshan,
Guangdong province, after a strike crippled its production in
China. Labor unrest then spread to  Toyota Motor Corp.   
 Monetary Policy  
 At the same time as seeking to strengthen household incomes,
China’s leaders have been pulling back on monetary stimulus in
an effort to stem asset-price inflation. Data on June 10 showed
property prices rose at a near-record pace, with costs jumping
12.4 percent across 70 cities from a year earlier.  
 The move to allow a stronger yuan means authorities may not
need to tighten domestic monetary policy as much as previously
was the case, according to Morgan Stanley.  
 Wang Qing , Greater China economist at Morgan Stanley in
Hong Kong, wrote in a note that the PBOC likely won’t raise
interest rates this year. He also said the government may raise
its target for 2010 credit growth from 7.5 trillion yuan. A
record 9.59 trillion yuan of new loans were signed last year.  
 “The Chinese are increasingly confident they can make this
adjustment to a domestic-driven economy rather than the one
relying on exporting low-value-added stuff to the rest of the
world,”  Jim O’Neill , chief global economist at Goldman, said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television in St. Petersburg, Russia,
after the PBOC statement.  
 -- Li Yanping . With assistance from  Timothy R. Homan  in
Washington,  Paul Abelsky  in Moscow,  Ryan Chilcote  in St.
Petersburg, Russia,  Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing,  Kim Kyoungwha 
and  Patricia Lui  in Singapore and  Rishaad Salamat  in Hong Kong.
Editors:  Chris Anstey ,  Paul Panckhurst   
 %CNY
  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A stronger yuan will boost the purchasing power of China's households that have helped propel imports to a record level. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Stephen Engle reports on China's currency policy, and implications for the nation's economy and global trade.
     China’s signal of an end to the yuan’s fixed rate to the dollar may accelerate a shift toward domestic demand as the prime driver of growth as President Hu Jintao seeks to strengthen household incomes. Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Nicholas Lardy, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's shift in currency policy, and its implications for the nation's economy and trade. 
     The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for  “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global strategist at TCW Group Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the impact of a change in China's currency policy.
     The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Colquhoun, director at Fitch Ratings Asia-Pacific sovereign group, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for Japan's credit rating and fiscal policy.
     Colquhoun, speaking from Tokyo, also discusses China's shift in currency policy, and its implications for the nation's economy. The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Qu Hongbin, chief China economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about China's currency policy. 
     China said on June 19 it will allow a more flexible yuan, signaling an end to the currency’s two-year-old peg to the dollar a week before a Group of 20 summit in Toronto. Qu, speaking from Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for China's economy and the nation's demand for U.S. Treasuries. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Ben Simpfendorfer, chief China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Hong Kong, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about China's yuan policy.
     China’s yuan climbed the most in 18 months against the dollar after the central bank signaled it would end a two-year peg. The People’s Bank of China said on June 19 it will allow greater “flexibility.” Yesterday, it ruled out “large changes” in the exchange rate and said it will prevent “excessive” moves. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
