-- Yuan Strengthens Most Since 2005 After China Signals End to Peg
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-21T10:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-20/yuan-gain-may-be-limited-to-1-9-by-year-end-as-euro-slump-cools-exports.html

          
          
             The yuan rose the most since a July
2005 revaluation and forwards jumped after China’s central bank
ended a two-year peg before a Group of 20 summit this week.  
 The currency advanced 0.42 percent to 6.7976 per dollar as
of 5:30 p.m. in Hong Kong, the biggest gain since July 2005,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 12-month non-
deliverable yuan forward rose 1.1 percent to 6.6425, implying
traders are betting on a 2.3 percent appreciation.  
 A stronger yuan will help curb inflation in the world’s
third-largest economy and shift investment toward service
industries from export-manufacturing, the People’s Bank of China
said yesterday. The move may also deflect criticism from
President  Barack Obama  and other G-20 leaders, who say China
relies on an undervalued currency to promote overseas sales.  
 “It will be a very gradual appreciation but it could be
front-loaded,” said  Nizam Idris , a Singapore-based currency
strategist at UBS AG, the world’s second-largest foreign-
exchange trader. “The yuan will appreciate about 4 percent this
year and 5 percent next year.”  
 Asian currencies gained, with South Korea’s won
strengthening 2.6 percent to 1,171.95 versus the greenback and
the Taiwan dollar climbing 0.6 percent to NT$31.999. The MSCI
Asia Pacific Index of regional stocks jumped 2.4 percent and oil
rose 1.7 percent on speculation a stronger yuan will boost the
purchasing power of the world’s most-populous nation. China’s
government bonds gained and stocks rose.  
 The yuan’s spot rate touched 6.7958 earlier today, the
strongest level since the central bank scrapped a peg against
the dollar on July 21, 2005 and strengthened the currency by 2.1
percent in a single day.  
 Limited Gains  
 The move signals that “the recovery in the Chinese economy
is on a more solid footing,” Philippine central bank Governor
 Amando Tetangco  said in an interview yesterday. “This bodes
well for intra-Asian trade and consequently growth for our
economies. This could also encourage capital to flow into the
region.”  
 Chinese authorities had prevented the currency from
strengthening against the dollar since July 2008 to help
exporters cope with the global financial crisis. The currency
appreciated 21 percent in the three years after a managed float
against a basket of currencies was introduced in 2005.  
 Gains this time around may be more moderate because the
yuan has already strengthened 16 percent against the euro this
year, eroding earnings for Chinese exporters in the European
Union, the nation’s largest market. The yuan may climb 1.5
percent against the dollar to 6.7 by Dec. 31, according to the
median estimate of 14 analysts surveyed yesterday by Bloomberg.  
 Testing the Bank  
 “Investors are buying and testing the central bank’s
bottom line,” said  Liu Dongliang , a Shenzhen-based analyst at
China Merchants Bank Co., the country’s fifth-largest lender by
market value. “But the central bank may take action when
volatility is excessive.”  
 The People’s Bank set its daily yuan reference rate
unchanged at 6.8275. The currency is allowed to fluctuate up to
0.5 percent from the official rate.  
 The central bank, which has accumulated $2.4 trillion in
 reserves  by intervening in currency markets,  said  over the
weekend it will allow greater currency “flexibility,” while
maintaining the trading band, curbing inflows of short-term
speculative capital and preventing “excessive” fluctuations.  
 Intervention Risk  
 “We can’t exclude the possibility of yuan depreciation,”
said  Shen Jianguang , Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.’s chief
economist for Greater China, who said a 2.5 percent drop is
possible this year if the dollar-euro rate is unchanged. Even so,
he added, China needs to show flexibility in its currency before
the G-20 summit in Toronto on June 26-27.  
 U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer  said lawmakers will push ahead
with proposals for trade sanctions until they are convinced the
advance is fast enough to allow fair competition.  
 Textiles makers stand to lose the most from appreciation
and some would “face bankruptcy” with profit margins as low as
3 percent,  Zhang Wei , vice chairman of the China Council for the
Promotion of International Trade, said in March. Europe’s debt
crisis has added to pressure on their earnings. Swift Umbrella
Co., based in the southern Chinese province of Fujian, was
forced by European buyers to cut prices 6 percent this year, Xu
Youchuan, sales manager, said in a June 2 interview.  
 Shrinking Surplus  
 China’s balance of payments indicates no need for “large
changes” in the yuan, which is “not too far from equilibrium
level,” the central bank’s statement said. The current-account
surplus, the widest measure of trade, narrowed 32 percent to
$297 billion in 2009, government data show.  
 Exports have been rebounding, exceeding imports by $19.5
billion in May, from a $1.68 billion surplus in April and a
deficit of $7.24 billion in March.  Overseas sales  jumped 48.5
percent in May from a year earlier, customs bureau data show.  
 The World Bank said last week that a stronger currency
would help China cool  inflation , which accelerated to a 19-month
high of 3.1 percent in May, higher than the government’s full-
year target of 3 percent.  
 Bonds Rally  
 Bonds rallied with the yield on the 2.38 percent note due
in May 2015 dropping five basis points to 2.8 percent.
Relaxation of the yuan’s fixed exchange rate will spur capital
inflows, helping ease a shortage of cash in the economy,  Yang Hui , a fixed-income analyst at Citic Securities Co., China’s
largest listed brokerage, wrote in a report today. It will also
weaken expectations for an interest-rate increase, Yang wrote.  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, gained 2.9 percent to 2,586.21.
Companies focused on the Chinese market, including Beijing-based
computer maker  Lenovo Group Ltd.  and  Shanghai-based China
Eastern Airlines Corp. , said in March that they would gain from
lower import costs and stronger consumer purchasing power.  
 The Chinese consumer “is feeling wealthier as a result of
appreciation,” said  Jing Ulrich , the chairperson for China
equities at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “In the Chinese low-end
manufacturing industries, what we will see is that the sector
will move up gradually along the value chain.”  
 -- Judy Chen ,  Belinda Cao ,  Bob Chen ,  Frances Yoon ,  Yanping Li ,
 Patricia Lui . Editors:  Sandy Hendry ,  James Regan   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 Xchen45@bloomberg.net .
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The yuan climbed the most in 20 months against the dollar. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Jim O'Neill, chief global economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., talks about China's relaxation of a two-year peg of the yuan against the dollar. 
     He speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's “The Pulse.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Colquhoun, director at Fitch Ratings Asia-Pacific sovereign group, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for Japan's credit rating and fiscal policy.
     Colquhoun, speaking from Tokyo, also discusses China's shift in currency policy, and its implications for the nation's economy. The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Carl Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics Ltd., talks about the Chinese central bank's plan to relax the yuan's fixed rate to the dollar.
     Weinberger talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Nicholas Lardy, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's shift in currency policy, and its implications for the nation's economy and trade. 
     The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for  “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Qu Hongbin, chief China economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about China's currency policy. 
     China said on June 19 it will allow a more flexible yuan, signaling an end to the currency’s two-year-old peg to the dollar a week before a Group of 20 summit in Toronto. Qu, speaking from Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for China's economy and the nation's demand for U.S. Treasuries. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Ben Simpfendorfer, chief China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Hong Kong, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about China's yuan policy.
     China’s yuan climbed the most in 18 months against the dollar after the central bank signaled it would end a two-year peg. The People’s Bank of China said on June 19 it will allow greater “flexibility.” Yesterday, it ruled out “large changes” in the exchange rate and said it will prevent “excessive” moves. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Jing Ulrich, chairwoman for China equities and commodities at JPMorgan Chase & Co., talks about the outlook for the Chinese stock market and economy following the central bank's signal to end the yuan's fixed rate to the dollar.
     Ulrich talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Ha Jiming, chief economist at China International Capital Corp., talks with Bloomberg's Betty Liu about the outlook for China's yuan after the country's central bank announced on June 19 that the currency's "flexibility" would increase. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Sinche, chief strategist at Lily Pond Capital Management LLC, talks about the Chinese central bank's plan to relax the yuan's fixed rate to the dollar.
     He speaks on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop With Betty Liu." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The People's Bank of China stands in Beijing. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
