-- `Toxic' Orders Can Predict Likelihood of Stock Market Crashes, Study Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-10-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/-toxic-orders-can-predict-likelihood-of-stock-market-crashes-study-says.html
A formula for measuring how fast the
best-informed traders increase their share of market volume may
help regulators prevent crashes such as the May 6 plunge,
according to a study from researchers at hedge fund Tudor
Investment Corp. and Cornell University.  The team developed a gauge that identifies the likelihood
of market makers curtailing their activity, which can cause a
rapid drop in prices.  Marcos Lopez de Prado  of Tudor and
Cornell’s David Easley and  Maureen O’Hara  say the metric,
similar to risk-management techniques used at some trading
firms, may help regulators monitor for potential catastrophic
shifts in liquidity.  Regulators are trying to prevent another rout like May 6,
when a 20-minute drop briefly erased $862 billion from the value
of U.S. equities. A transaction in Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
futures overwhelmed computer-driven firms that bought the
contracts, producing a flurry of “hot potato” trading followed
by an evaporation of buy orders as investors lost faith in data,
the Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures
Trading Commission said in an Oct. 1 report.  “The measure would have been able to anticipate two hours
in advance there was a high probability of a liquidity-induced
event on May 6,” said Lopez de Prado, head of high-frequency
futures at Tudor. “It measures order toxicity, or the
probability the market is going to have persistent order
imbalances that are going to damage market makers.”  Statistical Models  One of the statistical measures Greenwich, Connecticut-
based Tudor uses to monitor risks in its high-frequency trading
is based on O’Hara and Easley’s research, Lopez de Prado said.
The new gauge the three developed after May 6 is called volume-
synchronized probability of informed trading, or  VPIN .  While no system can predict stock crashes, any research by
O’Hara, whose specialty is market microstructure, “must be
taken seriously,” said  Paul Wilmott , owner of Wilmott.com, a
website for quantitative finance that has 80,000 members.  “You can create lots of toy models, meaning simple models,
to explain phenomena such as price movements, but they aren’t
necessarily predictive,” Wilmott said. “Think of these models
as being like an early warning indicator. Just like predicting a
hurricane, you may know something’s on the way, but you don’t
know where or when it will hit.”  Market Structure  The married Cornell couple are experts in market structure
who have spent 20 years studying how changes in the make-up of
orders on exchanges affects prices. Easley is chairman of the
economics department and O’Hara is a finance professor at
Cornell in Ithaca, New York. Before joining Tudor in 2008, Lopez
de Prado was a partner at PEAK6 Investments LP in Chicago and
head of quantitative equity research at  UBS AG  in Zurich.  “This could help market makers by measuring the
probability they’re receiving toxic flow,” or orders from
traders who are more informed about short-term price movements,
Lopez de Prado said. “By providing a metric, they can regulate
the way they operate and avoid dramatic decisions,” such as
exiting the market. A futures contract on the gauge could enable
them to manage their risk the way traders use the  Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index , or VIX, to hedge against
volatility, he said.  Tudor filed for a patent on VPIN on Oct. 15, according to
Steve Evans, a partner and director of the hedge fund’s 46-
person systems trading group, where Lopez de Prado works. Evans,
who also manages the $1.4 billion Tudor Tensor managed futures
strategy and a portion of the firm’s flagship Tudor BVI Global
Funds, declined to say how VPIN influenced Tudor’s activity or
profitability on May 6. He said that while Tudor uses some high-
frequency trading techniques, that’s not one of the firm’s
primary investment strategies.  Informed Trading  VPIN offers a measure of informed trading “suited for a
hyper-volume informational world,” said O’Hara, who is also
chairman of New York-based  Investment Technology Group Inc. 
Since informed traders usually buy or sell at the same time more
often than other participants, market makers tend to lose more
money when order imbalances increase, causing them to curb their
activity, she said. The paper about the May 6 crash is one of
three the authors wrote related to VPIN.  “These are good papers that present interesting, precise
ideas that can add to our understanding” of how informed
trading affects liquidity providers, said  Aaron Brown , chief
risk officer of AQR Capital Management LLC, a Greenwich,
Connecticut-based hedge fund. “What’s missing is an empirical
study linking elevated levels of toxic trading to the withdrawal
of market liquidity.”  Forecasting Selloffs  Brown also questioned whether the tool was capable of
forecasting selloffs such as the one on May 6.  “Liquidity providers monitor order imbalances in much more
sophisticated ways than the authors, and use the analysis in
their strategies,” Brown said. “It’s hard to believe you can
predict flash  crashes  using a measure less sophisticated than
the market participants have, given that the participants are
trying to avoid being victimized by crashes.”  The VPIN gauge measures the imbalance of buy and sell
orders to overall volume over periods that vary based on how
much trading occurs, Easley said. Tracking imbalances relative
to the intensity of trading instead of set periods -- what the
paper calls trade time as opposed to clock time -- is a variant
of existing models adjusted for high-frequency strategies.  “Informed flow is very hard to define,” said D. Keith
Ross Jr., chief executive officer of PDQ Enterprises LLC, a
Glenview, Illinois-based firm that operates a dark pool, or
private network that matches orders without publishing quotes.
“It can only be defined after the fact, based on its impact.”  Ross, a former chief executive officer of Chicago-based
market maker Getco LLC, added that the paper presents an
“elegant idea, but it might not be practicable.”  VIX Swings  VPIN has shown it can predict changes in the VIX, which
reflects investor expectations about near-term price moves based
on trading in options on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , O’Hara
said. The VIX doesn’t predict VPIN, making the measure a tool
that provides new information to the market, she said.  Algorithms, or strategies that break larger orders into
smaller pieces and execute them gradually, could also be
tailored to trade differently as the VPIN rises, avoiding risks
caused by diminishing liquidity, O’Hara said. Regulators for
their part could use the measure to identify when markets are at
risk of a liquidity-induced crisis and slow down trading to
forestall further problems, Lopez de Prado said.  “This would be much more effective than a circuit
breaker,” he said. U.S. stock markets and the Securities and
Exchange Commission instituted curbs in June that briefly halt
trading in a security when its price moves rapidly. “That stops
the infection after the infection is already widespread,” he
said. “VPIN is more dynamic and gradual.” It allows firms to
track problems and respond to changes more quickly, he said.  High-frequency strategies now help facilitate the majority
of trading volume in U.S. stocks and are proliferating in
futures markets.  In this environment, “a period of illiquidity could pose
real challenges when markets are fragmented and difficult,”
O’Hara said. “Liquidity risks are non-trivial.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 