-- ANZ Warns Against `Rate Regime' as Australian Lawmakers Plan Bank Inquiry
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-10-31T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/anz-warns-against-rate-regime-as-australian-lawmakers-plan-bank-inquiry.html
Australia and New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd.  Chief Executive Officer  Mike Smith  said any attempt
by lawmakers to control banks’ interest rates will take
Australia back to an era “long since gone.”  Smith commented after Australia’s Senate voted last week to
hold an inquiry into competition among banks and the opposition
coalition called for improved regulation of the industry.  “What happened there was this idea of actually imposing an
interest rate regime, really looking at further regulating the
banking industry, and really taking it back to an era that has
long since gone,”  Smith , head of the best-performing bank in
Sydney trading this year, told the Australian Broadcasting
Corp.’s “ Inside Business ” program yesterday.  The Senate inquiry, expected to be completed in March, will
look into the fees banks charge, and will include scrutiny of
their claims about the cost of raising money to fund mortgages,
according to the terms of reference.  Independent Senator Nick Xenophon, who called for the
inquiry, said the nation’s four biggest banks -- ANZ,  National
Australia Bank Ltd. ,  Westpac Banking Corp.  and  Commonwealth Bank
of Australia  -- should testify about the state of competition
between them and non-bank lenders.  Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said yesterday banks have
no reason to raise interest rates by a greater margin than any
increase the  Reserve Bank of Australia  sets when its board meets
tomorrow.  Healthy Profits  “Last week, we again saw the major banks report very
healthy profits, so there’s no justification for any of the
banks to raise rates beyond official rates on Tuesday,” Swan
wrote in his weekly e-mailed economic note yesterday.  Swaps traders  cut to 22 percent the chance the central bank
will increase interest rates this week, a Credit Suisse Group AG
index showed.  ANZ and National Australia Bank reported better-than-
expected profit growth last week, driven by increased lending to
home buyers and businesses. Westpac reports its results on Nov.
3.  ANZ said second-half profit jumped 69 percent to a record,
partly driven by increased lending to home buyers. National
Australia’s second-half cash profit, which excludes items such
as tax provisions and hedging charges, rose 32 percent as it
expanded its share of the business loan market.  Opposition Treasury spokesman  Joe Hockey  said the banks’
strong performance was the result of government support and
reiterated his call for increased regulation of the industry.  “It’s no longer the case that banks are allowed to fail,”
Hockey said in an interview on Channel Nine yesterday.
“Therefore, how much profit and how much risk should they be
taking?”  Offshore Markets  Australia’s largest banks lend more each year than they
accept in deposit accounts at home, forcing them to turn to
offshore markets for about 30 percent of their wholesale funding.
Smith, along with chief executives at Westpac and Commonwealth
Bank, said last month that mortgage rates will need to rise to
cover the increased cost of raising capital to fund loans.  ANZ, which is studying the books of Korea Exchange Bank for
a purchase that Citigroup Inc. estimates may cost as much as
A$6.5 billion ($6.4 billion), is seeking to expand all parts of
its business across Asia, Smith said yesterday.  “It’ll be across all aspects of banking, but we are
starting really, in the institutional space,” Smith said. “The
next stage is moving that down into the commercial banking
space.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  