-- Maruti Profit Rises on Record Auto Demand in India
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2010-10-30T12:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/maruti-second-quarter-profit-rises-5-on-record-automobile-demand-in-india.html
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. , the
nation’s biggest carmaker, boosted second-quarter profit 5
percent as India’s economic growth propelled record auto sales.  Net income rose to 5.98 billion rupees ($134 million) in
the three months ended Sept. 30 from 5.7 billion rupees a year
earlier, the company said today in a statement. Profit was in
line with the 5.91 billion rupee average of 32 analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales gained 27 percent to 89.4 billion
rupees.  The carmaker, a unit of Japan’s Suzuki Motor Corp.,
increased vehicle sales 27 percent to 313,654 units in the
period as rising incomes spurred demand in the world’s second-
most populous nation. Competitors including  Ford Motor Co.  and
Volkswagen AG have added models in India and built new plants to
challenge Maruti’s 50 percent market share.  “Demand in the Indian market remains strong,” Chairman  R. C. Bhargava  said in telephone interview after the results were
announced. “We still have a capacity constraint and are unable
to produce enough cars to meet demand.”  A strengthening yen and higher royalty payments to Suzuki
Motor eroded profitability,  Bhargava  said. Maruti paid 4.72
billion rupees, or 5.3 percent of net sales, in royalty fees in
the quarter, an increase of 2.21 billion rupees from a year ago,
Chief Financial Officer  Ajay Seth  told reporters today in New
Delhi.  Higher Costs  Maruti offset higher raw material prices by selling more
cars, Bhargava said.  Tata Steel Ltd. , Steel Authority of India
Ltd. and JSW Steel Ltd., the nation’s top producers, have raised
prices at least thrice this financial year.  The company expects raw material costs to increase in the
second half, Chief Executive Officer  Shinzo Nakanishi  said today
in a conference call to investors. Maruti will buy more parts
from local suppliers to maintain profit margins, he said.  The shares  rose  1 percent to 1,551.60 rupees at the close
of trading yesterday in Mumbai. The stock has declined 0.5
percent this year, compared with a 15 percent gain in the
benchmark  Sensitive Index  of the Bombay Stock Exchange.  The company’s sales in September gained 30 percent to a
record 108,006 vehicles. The automaker has posted 20 straight
months of sales increases. Demand for cars in India has risen
more than 30 percent this year and may double to 3 million
vehicles annually by 2015, according to the  Society of Indian
Automobile Manufacturers.   Ford, Toyota  Ford said in August it would introduce eight models in
India by 2015, following the debut of its first small car
earlier this year.  Toyota Motor Corp.  will introduce the Etios
hatchback in the country in December.  India, which earlier capped royalty payments by local
companies to their overseas technology partners at 5 percent of
domestic sales and 8 percent of exports, removed the limits from
Dec. 16, according to the  Reserve Bank of India  website.  Maruti posted a 20 percent drop in  net income  in the three
months ended in June, the first decline in five quarters, as it
paid higher royalties to Suzuki. Exports in the last quarter
fell 3.7 percent to 35,718 vehicles, on weak European automobile
demand, Nakanishi said. Markets outside Europe now account for
60 percent of the company’s total exports, he said.  The company last month introduced a second version of the
 Alto  hatchback, its best-selling model, after starting sales of
the  Eeco  van and a revamp of the WagonR compact this year.  Maruti expects to complete constructing a factory near New
Delhi with capacity to produce 250,000 cars annually by the
second half of 2012, Seth said. It also plans to build another
facility of similar capacity nearby to be completed by 2013.  The company will have a capacity to produce 1.75 million
cars by 2013, Seth said. The four factories of Maruti, which is
spending 17 billion rupees on the new plants to maintain its
share of the expanding auto market in India, have a combined
capacity of more than 1 million vehicles a year.  The automaker is now producing 110,000 vehicles a month,
Nakanishi said, adding that he expects the demand momentum to
continue for the rest of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  