-- Asian Stocks Decline for Second Week on Concern Earnings Growth Will Slow
-- B y   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2010-10-30T01:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/asian-stocks-decline-for-second-week-on-concern-earnings-growth-will-slow.html
Asian  stocks  fell for a second week,
paring the benchmark index’s second consecutive monthly gain, on
concern earnings growth will slow and possible asset purchases
by the Federal Reserve may disappoint investors.  BYD Co. tumbled 17 percent in Hong Kong after the Chinese
carmaker backed by Warren Buffett said quarterly profit was
almost wiped out.  Singapore Exchange Ltd.  lost 7.8 percent after
offering to buy Australia’s ASX Ltd. NGK Insulators Ltd., a
maker of insulators and industrial ceramic products, plunged 21
percent in Tokyo after cutting its profit forecast.  “I’m a bit cautious at the moment,” said  Chris Leung , a
Hong Kong-based portfolio manager at Taifook Asset Management
Ltd. “Ahead of the Federal Reserve meeting next week, I’d look
to take some profit. As economic data turns stronger, I doubt
whether the Fed is going to push the size of quantitative easing.
There might be a chance that it won’t meet market expectation.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.4 percent this week to
129.36, extending last week’s 0.9 percent drop. The gauge rose
2.4 percent in  October , its second consecutive gain since
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke on Aug. 27 said more
securities purchases may be warranted if U.S. growth slows.  The U.S. central bank is expected to announce a decision on
its quantitative-easing strategy at the conclusion of the
Federal Open Market Committee’s Nov. 2-3 meeting.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  dropped 2.4 percent this
week. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index declined 1.8 percent, South
Korea’s Kospi Index slipped 0.8 percent. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index rose 0.1 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
increased 0.3 percent.  NGK Insulators Plunges  BYD  tumbled 17 percent to HK$47.25 after reporting third-
quarter profit dropped 99 percent to 11.34 million yuan ($1.7
million) amid faltering sales.  NGK Insulators plunged 21 percent to 1,219 yen in Tokyo,
the  biggest decline  on the MSCI index this week. The maker of
equipment for electricity networks lowered its full-year profit
and sales  forecasts , citing delays in orders from China.  Sharp Corp., Japan’s largest maker of liquid-crystal
displays,  Samsung Electronics Co. , the world’s biggest maker of
televisions, memory chips and flat screens, Japan Tobacco Inc.,
the No. 3 publicly traded cigarette maker worldwide, and Esprit
Holdings Ltd., a Hong Kong-based clothing retailer, all fell at
least 4 percent this week after reporting or forecasting weaker
financial results.  This was the  peak week  for earnings reports, with more than
375 of the almost 1,000 companies in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
releasing results, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
About four companies have  exceeded profit  estimates for every
three that have fallen short, based on Bloomberg data compiled
since Oct. 7.  Yen, Takeover  The yen appreciated to a 15-year high against the dollar
this week, threatening to cut the value of overseas income at
Japanese companies when converted into their home currency and
further weighing on their shares. The yen is on course for its
strongest annual average level since currencies began trading
freely in 1971, according to Bloomberg data and based on each
day’s closing price.  Singapore Exchange , which oversees the largest stock market
in Southeast Asia, lost 7.8 percent to S$8.80 this week after
bidding about $8 billion to buy ASX, the operator of Australia’s
main stock exchange. Three Australian lawmakers said Oct. 28
they opposed the transaction. ASX gained 6.4 percent to A$37.18.  The rationale for Singapore Exchange’s bid for ASX is
“unconvincing,”  Anand Swaminathan  and  Sanjay Jain , analysts at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a note to clients. “ASX is not
attractive in terms of profitability and growth profile. It is
also set to face stiff margin pressure due to competition.”  AIA, KDDI Rise  Among stocks that rose,  AIA Group Ltd. , the insurer sold by
American International Group Inc., soared 17 percent to HK$23.05
on its debut yesterday in Hong Kong, raising $17.8 billion in
the city’s biggest initial public offering in history.  KDDI Corp. , Japan’s second-largest mobile-phone-network
operator, jumped 6.6 percent to 433,500 yen in Tokyo after
saying it will spend as much as 100 billion yen ($1.2 billion)
to buy back shares.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has risen about 7 percent this
year on speculation profit growth will weather Europe’s debt
crisis, China’s steps to curb property-price gains and concern
about the pace of the U.S. economic recovery. Shares in the
gauge are valued at an average of about 14 times  estimated
earnings , their highest level since mid-September.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 