-- Australian Security Will Screen All Cargo Coming From Yemen, Gillard Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-10-31T01:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/australian-security-will-screen-all-cargo-coming-from-yemen-gillard-says.html
Australia will screen all cargo
coming from Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Doha, the three transit points
for passengers flying from Yemen, Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
said, after an attempt to send parcel bombs from Yemen to the
U.S. was foiled.  Police in Yemen yesterday arrested a woman suspected of
attempting to send two parcel bombs to synagogues in Chicago via
air-cargo services, after authorities in Dubai and the U.K.
intercepted the packages on Oct. 29. Authorities are
investigating whether the shipments were staged as rehearsals
for a future attacks, a U.S. official said.  “There are no direct flights from Yemen to Australia, so
any cargo that originated in Yemen would come through one of
those three locations and there will be 100 percent screening as
a response,” Gillard said in Hanoi yesterday, according to a
transcript of her comments e-mailed today.  Gillard said she will take any “further advice arising
from this incident” when it becomes available.  The prime minister, who is in the Vietnamese capital for
the East Asia Summit, said she has been pushing hard to
formalize the participation of the U.S. and Russia in future
gatherings.  The two nations, which will join the summit from 2011,
attended as special guests this year.  Regional Forum  “Prior to this there was no regional forum that brought
together the U.S., China, the countries of our region, working
comprehensively across the economic, strategic, political and
defense relationships,” Gillard said. Such a forum “is
important for our future, for the future of China and its role
in our world.”  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Secretary of
Defense  Robert Gates  will visit Melbourne for the Austrialia-
United States Ministerial meeting, a forum between the two
nations, on Nov. 8.  Gillard said she plans to visit China next year after
Premier  Wen Jiabao  invited her when they met in Hanoi yesterday.  The Australian prime minister, who also met with leaders of
India, Laos and the Philippines, will travel to Indonesia and
Malaysia from Hanoi, according to local media  reports .  Stock Exchange Merger  Gillard, who also met with Singapore Prime Minister  Hsien Loong Lee  during her trip, said her counterpart had raised
 Singapore Exchange Ltd. ’s bid for  ASX Ltd.   “We both agreed there’s a clear process to be gone
through,” Gillard told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. in an
interview. “From the Australian point of view, from the Foreign
Investment Review Board, and that process will be gone
through.”  Singapore Exchange, part-owned by the city-state’s central
bank, on Oct. 25 offered to buy the owner of Australia’s stock
exchange for cash and shares in a deal worth A$8.1 billion ($8
billion), according to Bloomberg’s calculations based on
Singapore Exchange’s closing  price  of S$8.80 on Oct. 29.  The transaction requires an amendment to Australia’s
Corporations Act, approved by parliament, which prohibits anyone
from owning more than 15 percent of ASX. Singapore Exchange
needs the support of the minority Labor government, which hasn’t
decided its stance on the deal, and at least four other
legislators in the lower house of parliament to approve the bid.  Australian lawmakers including two Greens party members,
opposition treasury spokesman  Joe Hockey  and two independents
said they oppose Singapore Exchange’s bid, saying it’s unlikely
to be in the best interests of Australians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  