-- Cablevision Reaches Fee Agreement With Fox, Avoiding World Series Blackout
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-10-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/cablevision-reaches-fee-agreement-with-fox-avoiding-world-series-blackout.html
Cablevision Systems Corp.  and  News
Corp.  resolved a fee dispute that blacked out Fox programming,
including the World Series, for Cablevision’s 3 million
customers in the New York area for two weeks.  The agreement was reached ahead of yesterday’s baseball
game between the Texas Rangers and the San Francisco Giants and
the New York Jets-Green Bay Packers game today, the companies
said in a joint statement. It restores programming from Fox
broadcast stations, as well as some Fox cable channels. Terms
weren’t disclosed.  The resolution marks the end of the longest-lasting
blackout of a major broadcast network for a million or more
people in at least a decade. News Corp.’s Fox pulled its signal
on Oct. 16 after the two parties failed to reach a deal.  “In the absence of any meaningful action from the FCC,
Cablevision has agreed to pay Fox an unfair price for multiple
channels of its programming including many in which our
customers have little or no interest,” Cablevision said in a
separate statement. It said the current system for negotiating
such deals is “badly broken and needs to be fixed.”  Throughout the industry, broadcasters are asking cable and
satellite companies to pay for content that was previously free,
igniting disputes. Pay-TV providers, such as  Cablevision , have
balked at the fees, which are typically passed to consumers,
arguing the channels are free over the public airwaves and on
the Web. It’s also getting harder for the pay-TV operators to
pass on the costs to their subscribers in a sluggish economy.  ‘Fair Compensation’  Cablevision , based in Bethpage, New York, had said News
Corp. wanted more than $150 million a year in fees for the Fox
stations and some cable channels, up from $70 million a year it
had paid the media company. Fox said the $150 million figure
wasn’t accurate and that it wanted “fair compensation.”  Cablevision called repeatedly on the U.S. Federal
Communications Commission to intervene in the dispute and
require Fox to agree to binding arbitration. The FCC’s media
bureau sent a letter to the companies Oct. 22 saying the agency
was “deeply concerned” about the dispute and asked for
information. It didn’t directly intervene.  Fox rebuffed arbitration, saying direct negotiation was the
only way to resolve the dispute.  News Corp., controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch , fell 1 cent to $14.18 on Oct. 29 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Class A shares of the New York-
based company have increased 5.8 percent in 2010. Cablevision,
controlled by the Dolan family, rose 7 cents to $26.74 and has
risen 25 percent this year.  News Corp.’s Demands  News Corp. sought $1 a subscriber per month from
Cablevision for the Fox stations, plus the carriage of cable
networks Nat Geo Wild, Fox Deportes, and Fox Business, according
to analyst  Matthew Harrigan  at Wunderlich Securities LLC in
Denver. The combined deal is reminiscent of what News Corp.
offered  Time Warner Cable Inc. , the second-largest U.S. cable
operator, late last year, he said.  Time Warner Cable and News Corp. reached a pact after a
deadline extension without any channels being pulled. Time
Warner Cable agreed to a multiyear contract with the programmer
that climbs to 75 cents a subscriber, said  Rich Greenfield , an
analyst at BTIG LLC in New York.  On Oct. 29, News Corp. reached an agreement with  Dish
Network Corp.  on programming fees for Fox channels, avoiding a
blackout for about 3 million Dish customers. The two companies
said in a statement that they agreed on a distribution deal
ahead of an Oct. 31 deadline, without disclosing the terms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  