-- Cameron, Sarkozy to Seal Defense Cooperation Accord in London Next Week
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2010-10-30T12:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/cameron-sarkozy-to-seal-defense-cooperation-accord-in-london-next-week.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  and
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  will seal an agreement between Britain
and France on defense cooperation when they meet in London next
week, a French official told reporters.  Sarkozy will be accompanied by his ministers of defense,
finance, and immigration, who will meet with their British
counterparts. The French official spoke to reporters late
yesterday in Paris.  The increased military cooperation between the two
countries comes as both governments are looking for budget
savings while keeping soldiers in Afghanistan and seeking to
maintain independent nuclear deterrents.  Cameron said Oct. 19 that Britain’s armed forces will be
reduced by 17,000 personnel, while 25,000 civilian staff will be
axed in the defense ministry. He also announced the scrapping of
an order for  BAE Systems Plc ’s Nimrod reconnaissance aircraft
and said fewer, cheaper planes are needed for new aircraft
carriers.  Cameron said the U.K. will press ahead with the
construction of two aircraft carriers, though the launch of the
first will be deferred to 2020 from 2016 to allow for the
fitting of so-called catapult and arrester gear. This will allow
the use of carrier-variant  Lockheed Martin Corp. ’s F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter planes, which will be cheaper than the short-
takeoff and vertical-landing version previously proposed.  Britain and France together represent 45 percent of
Europe’s military budget, 55 percent of its operational forces
and 70 percent of its military research and technology, the
Financial Times reported today, citing a French official.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net 
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 Hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 