-- Canada's Dollar Gains for Second Straight Month on Global Growth Optimism
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-30T04:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/canada-s-dollar-gains-for-second-straight-month-on-global-growth-optimism.html
Canada’s dollar gained for a second
consecutive month, reaching parity with its U.S. counterpart for
the first time since April, on speculation an easing of monetary
policy by the Federal Reserve will spur global growth.  The loonie, as the currency is sometimes known because of
the waterfowl on the one-dollar coin, strengthened 1 percent,
after a 3.5 percent rally in September. Canada’s gross domestic
product increased 0.3 percent in August after shrinking the
month before, Statistics Canada said yesterday. A report on Nov.
5 will show employers added 15,000 jobs to payrolls in October,
economists predict.  “Appetite for risk” drove the currency higher, said
 Carlos Leitao,  chief economist at Laurentian Bank Securities in
Montreal, said in a telephone interview. He predicted the loonie
will trade at 98.5 U.S. cents at year-end. “The biggest impact
is risk on, risk off. Right now we’re a little bit risk on.”  The Canadian dollar rose to C$1.0194 per U.S. dollar
yesterday in Toronto, from C$1.0292 on Sept. 30. One Canadian
dollar buys 98.10 U.S. cents. The loonie was worth more than its
U.S. counterpart on Oct. 14. for the first time since April 26.  The MSCI World Index of stocks in 24 developed economies
hit the highest since April this week, and the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index touched the strongest level since May before ending
the week little changed. Canada’s primary equity gauge, the
 Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index , rose 0.6 percent.  ‘Sell North America’  Fed policy makers meet Nov. 2-3 to consider more purchases
of Treasuries to flood markets with cheap money in a strategy
called quantitative easing aimed at preventing stagnating prices
from undermining the U.S. recovery. They deployed $1.7 trillion
to pull the U.S. economy out of the financial crisis in a
program that ended in March.  “If we look at the last three months, essentially when QE2
expectations started picking up and U.S. yields declined, the
Canadian dollar is the worst performer in the G-10 after the
U.S. dollar,”  Shaun Osborne,  chief currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank in Toronto, wrote in an e-mail. “That
suggests to a degree, the Canadian dollar is getting dragged
down with the U.S. dollar in a sell-North America trade.”  The loonie extended gains yesterday after government
reports showed the U.S. and Canadian economies are expanding.
Canada’s grew 0.3 percent in August after shrinking 0.1 percent
in July. The U.S. economy grew at a 2 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, Commerce Department figures showed. Both reports
matched median forecasts in separate Bloomberg surveys.  Bank of Canada  Canada’s dollar has weakened 1.5 percent since then as the
Bank of Canada halted interest-rate increases on Oct. 19, after
three successive increases, citing a “weaker U.S. outlook.”
Canada ships about two thirds of its exports to the U.S.  “The Canadian economy continues to be shackled to its
largest trading partner, the U.S., and the very reason why the
Bank of Canada have prudently stepped to the sidelines,”  Dean Popplewell , an analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading
firm Oanda Corp., wrote via e-mail. “The Canadian dollar has
been caught in a dollar debasing jet-stream.”  Canada’s benchmark 10-year note’s yield climbed 6 basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.80 percent this month.
The price of the 3.5 percent security maturing in Jun 2020 fell
52 cents to C$105.84. Canada’s government bonds have lost
investors 0.1 percent this month, according to a Merrill Lynch &
Co. index.  Government Debt  Canadian 10-year bonds yielded 21 basis points more than
their U.S. counterparts yesterday, near the narrowest  gap  in
almost three months and down from as much as 37 basis points on
Oct. 7. Longer-term bond prices are falling faster in the U.S.
than in Canada, pushing yields up more quickly.  Canada’s dollar will climb to C$1.01 versus the greenback
by the end of the year and will trade at parity by the middle of
2011, according to the median of 35 economists’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Canada’s unemployment rate held steady at 8 percent and the
nation’s employers added 15,000 positions to payrolls, the
median forecasts of 16 economists in Bloomberg surveys.
Statistics Canada releases the  data  on Nov. 5 at 7 a.m. in
Ottawa, the nation’s capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  