-- Chelsea, Arsenal Score Late Wins to Stay Atop Premier League Standings
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-10-31T04:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/chelsea-arsenal-score-late-wins-to-stay-atop-premier-league-standings.html
(Corrects to show Newcastle hosts Sunderland in final
paragraph of story published Oct. 30.)  Chelsea and Arsenal scored late
goals to win and keep their places at the top of English
soccer’s Premier League.  Branislav Ivanovic ’s goal in the 84th minute gave Chelsea a
2-1 win at Blackburn, while Arsenal beat West Ham 1-0 on  Alex Song ’s 88th-minute score. Chelsea leads the standings with 25
points, five more than Arsenal and Manchester United.  “It was a battle,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  told Sky
Sports. “At the end of the day, our keep-going spirit brought
us through.”  Manchester United beat Tottenham 2-0 to remain third behind
Arsenal on goal difference. Wolverhampton Wanderers defeated
Manchester City 2-1, Fulham beat Wigan 2-0 and Everton beat
Stoke 1-0.  Chelsea came from a goal behind at Blackburn’s Ewood Park
for its eighth win in 10 games.  Benjani Mwaruwari gave Rovers the lead in the 21st minute
with a header, before  Nicolas Anelka  tied the score in the 39th
minute with Chelsea’s first shot on target.  The Blues then took the lead with six minutes remaining
when Ivanovic, left alone at the far post, headed a cross from
 Yuri Zhirkov  past  Paul Robinson .  Goalkeeper  Robert Green  starred for last-place West Ham at
the Emirates Stadium in north London before Song came to
Arsenal’s rescue.  Green Stars  Green stopped first-half shots from  Cesc Fabregas  and Song
and tipped Salvatore Squillaci’s header over the crossbar.  Samir Nasri  hit the crossbar with a free kick for the Gunners in the
second half,  Theo Walcott  struck the post and Green denied
Fabregas once again.  Arsenal finally broke through with two minutes left as
defender  Gael Clichy  lofted a cross which was headed in by the
diving Song. West Ham has not won in 23 away games, tying Fulham
for the longest streak in the league.  Manchester United kept pace with Arsenal by beating
Tottenham, which is winless in its past 23 visits to Old
Trafford.  Nemanja Vidic  gave United the lead with a header in the
first half and Nani added a controversial goal with six minutes
left to secure the victory.  Nani made a claim for a penalty after going down in the
area and hit the ball with his hand.  Disputed Goal  Spurs goalkeeper  Heurelho Gomes  believed play was stopped
and placed the ball on the ground for a free kick as Nani came
from behind him and kicked it into the net. Referee  Mark Clattenburg  conferred with his assistant, who had his flag
raised, and allowed the score to stand, drawing ire from
Tottenham players.  “How can you give a goal, he’s put his hand on the ball?”
Tottenham manager Harry Redknapp said in an interview with ESPN.
“It should have been a free kick. Everyone saw it was handball,
except the referee.”  Wolves rallied to beat fourth-place Manchester City and
move three points clear of West Ham at the bottom of the table.  Emmanuel Adebayor  put City, which entered the game eve on
points with Arsenal and Manchester United, in front with a
penalty kick in the 23rd minute. Nenad Milijas tied the game
seven minutes later and David Edwards scored early in the second
half by putting a rebound past goalkeeper  Joe Hart .  Ayegbeni Yakubu scored as Everton beat Stoke at home to
extend its unbeaten streak to five games and move up to seventh
in the standings.  Clint Dempsey  scored both goals as Fulham beat
Wigan for its first win in six league matches.  Liverpool visits Bolton, Birmingham is at Aston Villa and
Newcastle hosts Sunderland in tomorrow’s games, while Blackpool
meets West Brom in two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 