-- China Says Japan Ruined Atmosphere for Wen, Kan Talks During Hanoi Summit
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2010-10-30T00:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/china-says-japan-ruined-atmosphere-for-wen-kan-talks-during-hanoi-summit.html
China said Japan ruined the
atmosphere for talks between Premier  Wen Jiabao  and Japanese
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  during a summit in Hanoi, adding that
the leaders held three-way discussions with South Korean
President  Lee Myung-bak .  Japan made statements to the media that were “untrue”
after a meeting between the Chinese and Japanese foreign
ministers in Hanoi yesterday, China’s state run Xinhua News
Agency reported. Japan’s actions violated “China’s sovereignty
and territorial integrity,” Chinese Assistant Foreign Minister
Hu Zhengyue said yesterday, according to Xinhua.  Relations between Asia’s two largest economies soured last
month after a ship collision in disputed waters reportedly
prompted China to cut exports of rare earth minerals used to
make hybrid car engines, missiles and radar.  Wen and Kan are in Hanoi to attend the East Asia summit
that includes leaders from the U.S., Russia and the 10-member
Association of Southeast Asian nations. They met in Brussels at
an Asia-Europe summit on Oct. 4 and pledged to mend ties frayed
by a spat over uninhabited islands in an area of the East China
Sea that contains undersea oil and gas reserves.  Japan arrested the Chinese captain of a fishing boat after
it collided with coast guard vessels on Sept. 7, near the
islands known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China, releasing
him 17 days later.  Report Dismissed  China yesterday dismissed a report that it agreed to resume
talks with Japan on exploration for oil and gas in the East
China sea, Xinhua reported.  Japan’s statements about the content of talks between the
two countries’ foreign ministers soured the atmosphere for a
possible meeting of Chinese and Japanese leaders in Hanoi, Hu
said yesterday.  In yesterday’s meeting with Japan and South Korea, Wen
proposed that the countries by 2012 complete their joint study
on creating a free-trade area and step up cooperation in science
and technology, Xinhua reported today.  Wen said good relations between China, Japan and South
Korea are an important part of cooperation in East Asia, as well
as peace in Northeast Asia and the world, and their ties must be
handled “from a strategic perspective,” Xinhua said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Fellman  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  