-- Clinton Tells East Asia Summit to Have Active Agenda for Maritime Disputes
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-10-30T05:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/clinton-tells-east-asia-summit-to-have-active-agenda-for-maritime-disputes.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
called on the 16 members of the East Asia Summit to adopt an
“active agenda” that involves settling maritime disputes
including China’s claims to the South China Sea.  China expressed “deep dissatisfaction” with comments
Clinton made Oct. 28 about another maritime dispute when she
said that an island chain claimed by both China and Japan fell
under a treaty that enables the U.S. to protect Japan’s security
interests.  Clinton is representing the U.S. in Hanoi as it prepares to
formally join the EAS, part of an Obama administration strategy
to assert leadership in the Asia-Pacific by strengthening
alliances and building up the EAS to become the premier forum
for engagement on political and strategic issues. Clinton’s stop
in Vietnam is part of a two-week trip to the region, her longest
since taking office.  “Given its membership and its growing stature, we believe
that the EAS should pursue an active agenda that involves the
most consequential issues of our time,” Clinton said.  She listed nuclear proliferation, the increase in
conventional arms, climate change, and the promotion of human
rights as well as maritime security.  “The United States has a national interest in the freedom
of navigation and unimpeded lawful commerce,” Clinton said.
“When disputes arise over maritime territory, we are committed
to resolving them peacefully based on customary international
law.”  ‘Recent Steps’  “With regard to the South China Sea,” Clinton said, “we
are encouraged by China’s recent steps to enter discussions with
Asean about a more formal binding code of conduct.” Asean, the
10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations, is hosting the
EAS in Hanoi.  Clinton’s tour through Asia, her sixth since taking office,
also includes stops in Vietnam, Malaysia, Cambodia, Australia,
New Zealand and energy-rich Papua New Guinea.  The U.S.’s “overarching” goal for the EAS is to “help
strengthen and build this organization as a key forum for
political and strategic issues in the Asia-Pacific,” Clinton
said.  Clinton said five principles would guide U.S. involvement
in the EAS, beginning with its “enduring” commitment to the
institution. The U.S. would like to see Asean nations play a
central role in the EAS and for the summit to work closely with
other multilateral groups in the region.  While the U.S. wants to see the EAS tackle issues of
consequence, it will make its treaty allies -- Japan, South
Korea, Australia, Thailand and Philippines -- the “foundation”
of its engagement in the Asia-Pacific. And it will expand
emerging partnerships with New Zealand, India, China, and
Indonesia, “both in the EAS context and beyond,” Clinton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Hanoi at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin in Tokyo at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  