-- Coca-Cola May Boost China Investment, Chief Executive Kent Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-31T22:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/coca-cola-may-increase-china-investment-as-it-spends-faster-than-expected.html
Coca-Cola Co. , the world’s largest
soft-drink maker, is likely to increase spending in China as it
invests a planned $2 billion faster than anticipated, Chief
Executive Officer  Muhtar Kent  said.  “We’re ahead of our projections in investments,” Kent said
in an Oct. 29 interview in Hohhot, Inner Mongolia. The Coke and 
Minute Maid maker will probably spend “a little more” than the 
$2 billion it earmarked for China from 2009 to 2011, he said.  Coca-Cola , whose Sprite is China’s top-selling soft drink,
is building plants in the  world’s most populous nation  at a
faster pace than it expected. Rivals including  PepsiCo Inc.  are
also expanding in the China, where the soft-drink market grew 11
percent last year, according to  Euromonitor International .  “There is a lot of wealth growth in western and central
China, so there is a lot of room to grow as  Coca-Cola ’s presence
there is relatively small,” said Ben Cavender, a Shanghai-based
analyst at  China Market Research Group .  Coca-Cola  on Oct. 29 opened its 41st bottling plant in
China. The $17 million facility in Hohhot, capital of the Inner
Mongolia Autonomous Region, was supposed to be the 39th,
according to a  statement  last year.  The Atlanta-based company accelerated investment on
bottling plants, its distribution network and a $90 million
research and development center in Shanghai, Kent said. He
declined to predict how many plants  Coca-Cola  would have in China
next year.  Fanta, Glaceau  The beverage maker, whose  brands  include Fanta, Nestea and
Glaceau Vitaminwater, may spend $240 million constructing three
plants in China this year, bring the total to 42. It opened one
facility in Hunan on Oct. 28 and will open the third in
Guangzhou later this year, Kent said.  Coca-Cola  rose 0.2 percent to $61.32 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading Oct. 29 and has  gained  7.6 percent
this year.  It seeks expansion in China’s less-developed areas, where
the potential for growth may be greater.  Per-capita disposable
income  increased faster in the first quarter in Inner Mongolia,
Hubei, Tianjin and than in Shanghai or Beijing, according to
 data  from the National Bureau of Statistics and Bloomberg
calculations.  “This is a logical expansion and something we’ll see a lot
of in the future,” China Market Research Group’s Cavender said.  Market Share  Coca-Cola  has the biggest market share of soft-drink makers
in China with 17.5 percent, according to data from Euromonitor
International. Taiwan’s Ting Hsin International Group ranks
second with 11 percent.  Coca-Cola has 55.3 percent of the carbonated drinks market
while PepsiCo has 33.1 percent, according to Euromonitor. Its
Minute Maid brand leads the fruit and vegetable juice market
with a 12.3 percent share at the end of last year, the
researcher said.  PepsiCo  in May this year pledged to invest $2.5 billion by
2013 in China, including spending on research and development,
marketing, and as many as 12 new soft-drink plants. That was in
addition to the $1 billion expenditure it announced in 2008.  Coca-Cola  said earlier this month that volumes in China
expanded 12 percent in the third quarter, on par with the
increase of its Eurasia and Africa group, which is the fastest-
growing unit.  Coca-Cola Consumption  Annual per-capita  consumption  of Coca-Cola drinks in China
was the equivalent of 32 8-ounce bottles in 2009, quadrupling
over a decade, according to data on the company’s website. The
world average grew 30 percent to 86 servings in the same period
while top-ranked Mexico increased by 56 percent to 665 bottles.  Kent estimated 1 billion customers will join the middle
class in the next 10 years. "A big portion of these will come
from China -- 30 to 40 percent of these are going to be
generated in China. That will support our business growth
dramatically."  He is increasing investments in developing countries as
part of a plan to double, by 2020, last year’s revenue.  The $2 billion Coca-Cola set aside to invest in China from
2009 through 2011 is equal to the amount the company spent in
three decades since returning to the Asian nation in 1979.  Kent said the company had no plans to acquire rivals in
China after regulators last year blocked its acquisition of
 China Huiyuan Juice Group Ltd.  “We are focused on our efforts
to grow our business organically in China.”  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  