-- Colombia Announces New Measures to Brake Currency's Region-Beating Rally
-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-10-30T00:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/colombia-announces-new-measures-to-brake-currency-s-region-beating-rally.html
Colombia’s government and central
bank announced new measures to stem a rally in the peso after
President  Juan Manuel Santos  expressed concern its appreciation
is hurting exporters and job growth.  The Finance Ministry will avoid bringing in $1.5 billion
from abroad through the first months of 2011 to reduce demand
for the local currency. The government will make changes to its
2011 external finance plan to keep $384 million out of Colombia,
and will hedge as much as $3.7 billion in debt payments.  “This represents a substantial alleviation in dollars in
the exchange market, so there’s less pressure to strengthen the
peso,” Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  said today.  The peso is the biggest gainer this year among Latin
American countries as foreign investors flood the country with
capital amid near-zero interest rates in the U.S., Japan and
other developed economies. Currency volatility can make it
difficult for businesses to plan, and a stronger peso hurts
exporters by making their goods more expensive in dollar terms,
damping profits and potentially putting jobs at risk.  The Trade Ministry also announced plans to reduce some
tariffs for raw materials and capital goods in a bid to help
companies, especially small- and medium-sized businesses, obtain
equipment and other goods more cheaply. The tariff reductions
will boost  economic growth  by 0.22 percentage point and generate
150,000 jobs, the government said.  Central Bank Moves  Colombia’s central bank said today it will extend the
period during which it will purchase dollars in the spot
currency market as policy makers kept the  benchmark interest
rate  at a record low 3 percent for a sixth straight month.  The monetary authority will continue to buy “at least” $20
million a day through March 15, two months longer than
previously planned, bank chief  Jose Dario Uribe  said. He said
the purchases may continue after March 15 if needed.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 1,838.75 per dollar today,
before the measures were announced, putting its 2010 gain at
11.2 percent. That’s the second-best performance among the 31
most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg, following the
Japanese yen. The peso hit a 26-month high on Oct. 7.  Colombian business associations said in a letter this month
to the government and central bank that the strong peso
threatens jobs and “jeopardizes the Colombian economy’s positive
outlook.”  Policy makers and the government had already taken measures
aimed at slowing the peso’s appreciation.  Echeverry on Oct. 13 said the government would keep two
dividend payments worth $1.4 billion from state oil company
 Ecopetrol SA  abroad instead of converting the dollars into local
currency.  Economic Outlook  The central bank has been purchasing at least $20 million
daily in the spot market since Sept. 15.  Santos expects the economy to grow 6 percent annually
within two years after a 0.4 percent expansion last year. He
intends to create 2.4 million jobs to bring the  jobless rate 
down to single digits from 11.5 percent in September.  The central bank today forecast economic growth of close to
4.5 percent for next year.  Steps taken in Brazil, where the real has gained 36 percent
since 2008, boosted speculation Colombia may follow suit and
restrict capital inflows to ease pressure on the currency. The
central bank’s Uribe has maintained that capital controls would
only be justified if and when the benefits outweigh the costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  