-- Comedy Central's Stewart Says Press, Politicians Are Creating Extremism
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   T r a c i   M c M i l l a n
-- 2010-10-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/comedy-central-s-stewart-says-press-politicians-are-creating-extremism.html
Comedy Central television hosts  Jon Stewart  and  Stephen Colbert  criticized the media at their
 “Rally to Restore Sanity And/Or Fear”  in Washington, blaming
the press and politicians for creating a political atmosphere
dominated by extremist rhetoric.  “The image of Americans that is reflected back to us by
our political and media process is false,” Stewart, 47, told a
crowd gathered on the National Mall yesterday for an afternoon
of musical performances and comedy by the two television
political satirists. “We work together to get things done every
damn day.”  A largely young and white audience packed the mall for
afternoon of comedy and performances by musicians  Sheryl Crow ,
The Roots,  Mavis Staples , Kid Rock,  Tony Bennett  and  Jeff Tweedy 
of the band Wilco. Colbert, 46, dashed onstage in a red, white
and blue caped costume, saying he was there to “promote fear.”  Stewart, host of the nightly comedy program “The Daily
Show,” promoted the rally as a “million moderate march”
designed to counter extremist rhetoric dominating the national
political discussion.  Stewart said it was not his place to encourage people to
vote in the Nov. 2 congressional elections. “I think people
should do what moves them,” he told reporters after the rally.  Political Clarity  Stewart said he’s striving to give viewers “a certain
clarity” about politics in his show. Yet he said it’s “hard to
know” whether he’s doing a better job than the cable news
programs he criticized.  The event mimics the “Restoring Honor” rally held Aug. 28
in Washington by Glenn Beck, a Fox News commentator popular with
Tea Party and other conservative activists such as former Alaska
Governor  Sarah Palin .  “I came in retaliation of Glenn Beck,” said Leanna
Norwood, 19, who came from Pennsylvania. “He takes everything
so seriously, so extreme.”  Stewart urged the crowd to tune out extremist political
rhetoric and work together to repair the country.  “If we are to get through the darkness and into the light
we have to work together,” Stewart told the crowd. “Sometimes
the light at the end of the tunnel isn’t the promised land,
sometimes it’s just New Jersey.”  Dueling Rallies  The event was structured as dueling rallies, with Stewart
urging sanity and Colbert promoting fear.  Colbert, host of “The Colbert Report,” interrupted a
performance of the song “Peace Train” by  Yusuf Islam , formerly
known as  Cat Stevens , by shouting “Someone pull the emergency
brake on that rainbow moonbeam choo-choo.”  Colbert introduced his own musical guest, metal rock
musician  Ozzy Osbourne , who performed  “Crazy Train.”   Later, as Stewart gave “medals of reasonableness,”
Colbert handed out “fear medals” that showed a naked man
running with scissors.  Stewart awarded one of his medals to Velma Hart, a
supporter of President  Barack Obama ’s who questioned the
president’s economic policies at a Sept. 20 town hall meeting.
Stewart praised Hart for asking the president “a series of
tough questions with respect.”  Facebook Honored  Colbert awarded a medal to  Mark Zuckerberg , chief executive
officer of Facebook Inc., saying it was “because he values his
privacy much more than he values yours.” The social networking
site has come under fire for transmitting personal information
to advertisers and Internet tracking firms.  Democrats say they hope the rally will energize young,
Hispanic and black voters -- three constituencies crucial to the
party’s 2008 presidential win -- to return to the polls on Nov.
2.  Rothenberg Political Report , a nonpartisan publication based
in Washington, predicted that Republicans would gain at least 55
U.S. House seats, awarding the party control of the body.
Democrats are more likely to hold control of the U.S. Senate,
according to analysts.  Thousands arrived hours before the noon rally began,
passing time watching clips of Stewart’s “The Daily Show” and
“The Colbert Report” on giant television screens set up on the
mall. Many carried signs with messages such as “I’m Not Afraid
of Muslims, Tea Parties, Gays.”  “This is the Woodstock of our generation,” said David
Moudy, 23, an Iraq war veteran who traveled to the rally with
his siblings, referring to the 1969 three-day outdoor music
 festival  attended by about 500,000 young people near Woodstock,
New York.  Muslims Aren’t Bad  Stewart invited retired basketball player  Kareem Abdul- Jabbar , a Muslim, to counter anti-Islam sentiments.  “ Osama bin Laden  is a specific person,” Stewart said.
“But there are plenty of Muslim people that are not bad and
that you would like.”  Tony Fox, executive vice president of MTV Networks
Entertainment Group, which owns Comedy Central and helped
organize the rally, estimated that the crowd was more than
250,000 people. NBC estimated the crowd at tens of thousands.  Arianna Huffington , owner of liberal media website the
Huffington Post, said her group sponsored 200 buses that
transported more than 10,000 people to the rally.  Moveon.org  and
 Democracy Now , liberal advocacy groups, handed out flyers
advertising their organizations at the rally.  “The Daily Show” has averaged about 1.1 million viewers
aged 18 to 49 this year, according to Nielsen Co., and is one of
the most-watched late-night shows among viewers 18 to 34 years
of age.  Stewart is more popular among Democrats and independents
than Republicans, according to an Oct. 7-10 Bloomberg National
Poll. The survey by Des Moines, Iowa-based  Selzer & Co.  found
that 43 percent of Democrats and independents had a favorable
view of Stewart, compared with 20 percent of Republicans.  In an Oct. 27 appearance on the “Daily Show,” Obama
defended his record and encouraged voters to reelect Democrats
from conservative districts who backed the party agenda even
though they knew it might hurt them politically.  -- Editors:  Ann Hughey ,  Mark Rohner   To contact the reporter on this story:  Lisa Lerer  in
Washington at   llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  