-- Device Seized at East Midlands Airport Was `Viable' Explosive, U.K. Says
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-10-30T14:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/device-seized-at-english-airport-a-viable-explosive-u-k-government-says.html
A device found at a U.K. airport on
a cargo aircraft bound for the U.S. “was viable and could have
exploded,” British Home Secretary  Theresa May  said.  “The target of the device may have been an aircraft and,
had it detonated, the aircraft could have been brought down,”
May  said  at a press conference in London today. “But we do not
believe that the perpetrators of the attack would have known the
location of the device when they planned for it to explode.”  She said there was “no information to indicate” that an
attack is imminent, she added.  May was speaking following a meeting of the U.K.
government’s emergency planning committee, known as COBRA, to
discuss the discovery yesterday of two packages containing
explosive materials on flights to the U.S. from Yemen, one of
which was intercepted at the East Midlands Airport, in central
England. The U.K. government is taking “immediate action” to
ban the movement of unaccompanied air freight from Yemem into or
through the country as a precautionary measure, May said.  Direct cargo and passenger flights between Yemen and the
U.K. have been suspended since January following an attempt to
bomb an aircraft bound for Detroit, she said.  Early investigations suggest the attackers would not have
known where the device would be if it exploded, May said.  The discovery of the packages in the U.K. and Dubai, both
bound for synagogues in Chicago, triggered an examination of
three United Parcel Service Inc. planes yesterday and
confiscation of a FedEx Corp. parcel.  The threat level in the U.K. is at “severe,” meaning “a
terrorist threat is highly likely,” May said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in Berlin via 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  