-- Dollar Falls to 15-Year Low Versus Yen on Fed Easing Outlook
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-10-30T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/dollar-falls-to-15-year-low-versus-yen-on-fed-easing-outlook.html
The  dollar  dropped for a second
straight month against a basket of currencies including the euro
and yen on speculation the Federal Reserve will step up
quantitative easing.  The greenback reached a 15-year low against the yen on Oct.
29, before next week’s U.S. elections and meetings of the Fed,
the European Central Bank, Bank of England, Bank of Japan and
the Reserve Bank of Australia. The Brazilian real fell against
all of its major counterparts during October as the government
sought to cool foreign inflows.  “You’ve got the quantitative-easing expectations for the
Fed,” said  Robert Lynch , head of currency strategy at HSBC
Holdings Plc in New York. “That’s been one of the key
contributors to the weakness in the dollar.”  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the dollar against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro, yen and pound, fell 1.9
percent to 77.214 on Oct. 29, from 78.720 on Sept. 30. It
touched 76.144 on Oct. 15, the lowest level since Dec. 11, 2009.  The gauge of the greenback has dropped 3.9 percent since
Sept. 21, when the Fed said in a statement following its policy
meeting that it’s prepared “to provide additional accommodation
if needed” to support the economy recovery. Policy makers are
meeting Nov. 2-3.  “The expectations for Fed easing have been around for
quite a while,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist
at Wells Fargo & Co. in New York. “We certainly had a fairly
substantial run-up in asset prices like equities and also a
further substantial decline in the dollar.”  Slower Inflation  The measure of inflation preferred by the Fed, which is tied
to consumer spending and strips out food and energy costs,
climbed at a 0.8 percent annual rate in the third quarter, the
Commerce Department reported yesterday. The median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 1 percent pace.  The dollar decreased 3.7 percent to 80.40 yen on Oct. 29,
the lowest level since April 1995, from 83.53 on Sept. 30. The
U.S. currency depreciated 2.3 percent to $1.3947 per euro, from
$1.3634. The euro decreased 1.6 percent to 112.12 yen, from
113.88.  The yen gained for a sixth month against the dollar,
matching a stretch of advances that ended in January 2004 as
investors sought an easily traded alternative to the dollar
before the U.S. central bank’s decision next week. Japan’s
currency has appreciated more than 5 percent since authorities
acknowledged on Sept. 15 intervening for the first time in six
years to help the nation’s export-dependent economy by selling
the yen.  ‘Bold’ Action  Japan’s Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters in
Tokyo on Oct. 28 that he’s watching the currency market with
great interest and will take “bold” action in it if necessary.
The ministry refrained from selling the yen this month.  “If the dollar falls sharply in reaction to QE2, and the
80 level gives way under the strain, the risks increase that the
BOJ will feel compelled to do something,”  Marc Chandler , global
head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in
New York, wrote in a research note. “Its strength continues to
defy the traditional explanatory models that typically give a
privileged position to risk appetite, interest-rate
differentials or external positions.”  The Bank of Japan moved ahead the date of its next policy
meeting to Nov. 5. The Fed’s rate decision will come a day after
U.S. elections on Nov. 2, when the Reserve Bank of Australia
meets. The ECB and BOE meet two days later.  Taiwan’s Dollar  A gauge of Asian currencies led by Taiwan’s dollar rose for
a second month on speculation Fed easing will increase the
amount of funds that can be invested in the region.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, has risen
0.8 percent this month following September’s 2.6 percent
increase, the biggest since March 2009. Taiwan’s dollar gained 2
percent to 30.62 in October.  The Brazilian real fell 0.6 percent to 1.6991 against the
dollar this month as Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , fighting
what he has described as a “currency war, raised taxes on
foreign inflows twice to stem a rally in the currency. The real
reached a two-year high of 1.6442 on Oct. 14.  New Zealand’s dollar was the biggest winner against the
dollar among major currencies tracked by Bloomberg as Reserve
Bank Governor  Alan Bollard  said on Oct. 28 that the 3 percent
official cash rate will probably need to increase.  Euro Versus Dollar  The euro fell against the dollar yesterday as European
Union discussions on a permanent mechanism to deal with nations
facing default sparked concern that the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis may intensify again.  At a summit in Brussels, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
won European Union backing for a rewrite of treaties to create a
permanent debt-crisis mechanism by 2013, aiming to prevent a
repeat of the Greece-led shock that jolted the euro.  “Ultimately, those debt concerns and default concerns will
keep the euro’s upside limited even in an environment of a
generally weaker dollar,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market
analyst in Washington at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a
currency brokerage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  