-- Emerging-Market Inflows Slow Before U.S. Elections, Fed's Policy Meeting
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2010-10-30T06:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/emerging-market-inflows-slow-before-u-s-elections-fed-s-policy-meeting.html
Investors ploughed less money into
emerging-market assets in the final week of October as U.S. mid-
term elections and the Federal Reserve policy meeting approach,
prompting managers to hold more cash.  Emerging-market equity funds took in $2.68 billion in the
week ended Oct. 27 while bond funds attracted $710 million,
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  EPFR Global  said in an e-mailed
statement today. The amounts were about half the totals absorbed
in the preceding week. Some $20.2 billion went into ‘cash proxy’
money-market funds, the most in 14 weeks and the third-largest
weekly intake in 2010, it said.  Speculation that a second round of easing might proceed at
a slower pace contributed to “the sense of drift to the
sidelines” in fund flows, according to EPFR, which tracks $13
trillion of assets. Those concerns may limit the dollar’s slide
and also blunted appetites for commodity funds, it said.  The U.S. will hold congressional elections on Nov. 2 in a
season dominated by voter concerns about the economy as the
jobless rate of  9.6 percent  held near the highest since 1983.
The world’s biggest economy grew at an annual pace of 2 percent
in the third quarter, stoking speculation the Fed will unveil a
second round of bond purchases on Nov. 3 to secure a stronger
recovery.  Inflows Swell  Inflows into emerging-market stock funds have surpassed $60
billion and exceeded $46 billion in bond funds, both poised for
their best year since EPFR started tracking them in 1995.
Investors are sending more capital into higher-yielding assets
in developing nations as monetary easing kept interest rates in
the U.S., Japan and Europe near record lows.  The  U.S. dollar  bought 80.4 yen at 5 p.m. in New York
yesterday and reached 80.39, the weakest level since April 1995,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Gold reached a record
$1,387.35 on Oct. 14.  Still, the dollar has rebounded 0.5 percent versus the
currencies of six major trading partners after closing at a 10-
month low on Oct. 14, according to the  Dollar Index . Asian
currencies slipped  0.5 percent  against the greenback from a two-
year high over the same period, according to Bloomberg-JPMorgan
Chase & Co’s Asian Dollar Index.  Fed, Dollar  “A weaker dollar and stronger commodities, equities, bonds
and emerging markets have helped the third and fourth quarter to
be more profitable,”  Mansoor Mohi-uddin , Singapore-based global
head of currency strategy at UBS AG, wrote in a report today.
“These trades have given back a little of their gains recently
as the market refocuses on next week FOMC meeting.”  In today’s report, EPFR said equity funds dedicated to
Brazil, Russia, India and China absorbed $30 million for the
week while inflows into commodity sector funds were less than a
quarter of the $1 billion recorded in the preceding week.  Investors pulled $108 million from Japan equity funds amid
signs export-driven recovery is tailing off in that nation, EPFR
said. The Bank of Japan on Oct. 5 cut its policy rate to
“virtually zero” and announced a 5 trillion yen ($62 billion)
bond-buying program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  