-- MGM Studio's Creditors Back Chapter 11 Reorganization, Leadership Handover
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 2010-10-30T00:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/mgm-studio-s-creditors-back-chapter-11-reorganization-leadership-handover.html
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.  said
creditors backed a plan to reorganize the debt-strapped
Hollywood studio through bankruptcy and hand over management to
the producers of “The Sixth Sense.”  Debt holders “overwhelmingly” approved the plan to take
Los Angeles-based MGM through a streamlined Chapter 11
bankruptcy, slash its debt and make Spyglass Entertainment’s
 Gary Barber  and  Roger Birnbaum  the top officers, the studio said
today in an e-mailed statement.  The vote thwarts for now efforts by billionaire  Carl Icahn 
to merge the studio, which owes more than $4 billion, with  Lions
Gate Entertainment Corp. , distributor of the “Saw” films and
maker of TV’s “Mad Men.” Icahn, 74, has been buying MGM’s debt
and is the largest shareholder of Vancouver-based Lions Gate.
Lions Gate has also pursued the combination.  “MGM will now move expeditiously to implement that plan,
which will dramatically reduce its debt load and put the company
in a strong position to execute its business strategy,” the
studio said in the statement.  MGM plans to file for Chapter 11 as soon as Oct. 31,
according to a person with knowledge of the situation. In a
streamlined or prepackaged bankruptcy, a company negotiates
terms of reorganization with its key stakeholders before filing
for Chapter 11 protection, allowing the proceedings to finish in
weeks or months rather than years.  Fast Track  Under the plan, creditors would exchange debt for about 95
percent of the equity when the studio emerges from bankruptcy.
Owners of Los Angeles-based Spyglass, an independent producer,
would get about 5 percent their films to MGM’s library. The Los
Angeles Times reported the vote earlier today.  Lions Gate has offered MGM’s creditors a package of stock
and debt valued at about $1.7 billion. Under that plan,
creditors would receive 55 percent of the equity of the combined
company plus $500 million in new debt.  The studio aims to win court approval for the Spyglass plan
by December and to raise $500 million to produce films upon its
exit from Chapter 11, said the person, who wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly about the agreement.  The MGM plan could still face opposition from Icahn, who
controls more than 10 percent of MGM’s debt, the person said.
Creditors had negotiated with Icahn before the final vote, the
person added.  MGM spokeswoman  Susie Arons  declined to comment beyond the
statement. Icahn didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Peter Wilkes , a spokesman for Lions Gate, which is run from Santa
Monica, California, also declined to comment. Officials from
Spyglass couldn’t be reached.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  