-- Google, Alcoa CEOs Urge More Spending on Innovation, Technology
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/google-alcoa-ceos-urge-more-spending-on-innovation-to-compete-with-china.html
The U.S. needs to boost spending on
innovation and education to create the highly educated workforce
and new technologies needed to compete in a global marketplace
increasingly dominated by low-cost competitors such as China,
according to the chief executive officers of  Google Inc .,  Coca-
Cola Co. ,  Alcoa Inc . and the former head of IBM.  The U.S. should increase spending on research and
development in government, private industry and academia, said
 Klaus Kleinfeld  of Alcoa and  Louis Gerstner , former chief
executive officer of  International Business Machines Corp. ,
appearing today on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS.” It should boost
education standards and make teaching a more rewarding career
option, said Gerstner.  “Skills training, career training, has got to be more
important, more relevant and more focused in America, said
Gerstner. “We’re not producing workers who have the skills to
move up the next step. We’re not in America investing in the
skills of our workers to allow us to compete in those industries
today.”  The U.S. faces increased competition from developing
countries such as China, India and Brazil, and millions of U.S.
manufacturing jobs have migrated overseas as American companies
set up off-shore facilities or went out of business. With
 unemployment  hovering near 10 percent, pressure is mounting on
politicians to enact measures to restore growth and the long-
term competitiveness of the economy.  Made in the U.S.  “The real problem we have now is we have other countries
that are copying us -- Singapore, Korea, China and so forth,
that have very directive industrial policies around sectors,”
said Google’s  Eric Schmidt , 55. He said the U.S. should be more
proactive in making sure new technologies developed in the U.S.
are also commercialized there.  The Defense Department’s establishment in 1958 of the
Advanced Research Projects Agency to generate defense
technologies was a key element in fostering innovation after
World War II, and such programs should be strengthened, said
Schmidt. He pointed out that the post-war surge in science and
technology was largely driven by the needs of the Cold War, and
amounted to government industrial policy.  “America and the American dream are still very much alive.
The foundation is there,” said Kleinfeld, 52, who manages the
world’s largest aluminum producer. “Currently we have a
scientific revolution going on like we have not seen before.”  Gerstner, who headed  IBM  from 1993 to 2002, harkened back
to the sense of national mobilization that came with fighting
Nazism and Communism, which helped to spur innovation and
economic growth.  Sense of Urgency  “I don’t see a sense of urgency,” said Gerstner, 68,
currently a senior adviser at the Carlyle Group LP in New York.
“I don’t see a sense that we’re in a competitive battle here
for jobs, for leadership in industry.”  Muhtar Kent , 57, chief executive officer of Coca-Cola, said
was he was “a little apprehensive” about the next 18 months
while he was “bullish” longer-term.  He said in the 1980’s, when the U.S. feared being eclipsed
by Japan, the U.S. “reinvented itself, it innovated and re-
innovated and created 25 million new jobs. The U.S. has that
capability.”  Schmidt said the recovery from the recent recession will be
lengthy as Americans lower their debt burdens.  “The typical deleveraging cycle is about a seven-year
cycle,” said Schmidt. “We are in about year three of that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 