-- Initial Sales From Asian Companies Lead Busiest U.S. IPO Month Since 2007
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-10-30T04:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/initial-sales-from-asian-companies-lead-busiest-u-s-ipo-month-since-2007.html
Le Gaga Holdings Ltd. , the Hong
Kong-based greenhouse vegetable producer, raised $103 million in
an initial public offering, as Asian companies led the busiest
month for U.S. IPOs in almost three years.  The seller of produce to supermarkets in Hong Kong and
China jumped 19 percent yesterday after pricing its American
depositary receipts at $9.50 each, the top end of its forecast
range, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A total of 21
companies sold shares through IPOs in October, the most since 22
initial sales in December 2007, the data show.  Companies in Asia, the world’s fastest growing region, have
recorded six of the 10 largest gains among IPOs in the U.S. this
year.  ChinaCache International Holdings Ltd. , the Beijing-based
provider of Internet content to businesses, this month had the
biggest first-day rally for a New York listing in three years.  “That’s where everybody wants their money and where the
hot story is right now,” said  Timothy Cunningham , a money
manager at Santa Fe, New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment
Management, which oversees about $69 billion. “Especially for
China, you have a nice long-term growth story there.”  Le Gaga intends to use the money to build greenhouses and
improve other facilities, its Securities and Exchange Commission
filing showed. The company will also use proceeds for research
and development.  Bank of America Corp.  of Charlotte, North
Carolina, and Zurich-based UBS AG led the offering.  ‘We’re Happy’  “We’re happy,” said Ma Shing Yung, Le Gaga’s chairman and
chief executive officer. The IPO was priced “at the high end of
the price range, so we’re very happy about it,” he said.  Revenue at  Le Gaga  rose 41 percent to 281 million yuan
($41.4 million) in its fiscal year ended March 31, its filing
showed. The company’s profit increased 82 percent.  Le Gaga operates 16 farms in the Chinese provinces of
Fujian, Guangdong and Hebei, according to  its filing . Le Gaga
uses greenhouses to grow vegetables at most of its farms in
Fujian and Guangdong. Its two farms in Hebei produce vegetables
that grow best in a cooler climate, the filing showed.  Asian economies will grow 6.6 percent next year, according
to the Washington-based  International Monetary Fund . China’s
economy will expand 9.6 percent. In the U.S., where at least 55
companies have postponed or withdrawn IPOs this year, economic
growth will slow to 2.3 percent in 2011, the estimates show.  Search for Yield  Benchmark interest rates near zero percent in the U.S. have
also increased demand for higher-yielding assets, leading more
investors to IPOs, said  Jason Cooper , who oversees $2.5 billion
at 1st Source Investment Advisors in South Bend, Indiana.  “People are finding a hard time to continue to put money
into assets that are earning very little and will continue to
earn very little,” Cooper said. “People are reassessing how
much risk they’re willing to take.”  That’s “probably helped the IPO market,” he said.  Companies from Asia have led the rebound.  JinkoSolar
Holding Co. , the maker of silicon wafers in China’s Jiangxi
province, has gained 174 percent.  HiSoft Technology 
International Ltd., the Dalian, China-based company that helps
businesses outsource software development, rose 166 percent.  Gurgaon, India-based MakeMyTrip Ltd., India’s largest
online travel company, climbed 158 percent.  The last two Chinese IPOs this month, Beijing-based TAL
Education Group, and  Mecox Lane Ltd.  of Shanghai, both advanced
at least 50 percent on their first day of trading.  Next Week’s Offerings  Seven companies are seeking to raise a combined $1.02
billion through U.S. IPOs next week, which would be the most in
four months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The first four will come from companies outside the U.S.
 Xueda Education Group  and SinoTech Energy Ltd. of Beijing will
offer ADRs after three of the five Chinese companies that
completed U.S. IPOs this month climbed at least 40 percent.  Xueda Education, which provides tutoring services for
primary and secondary school students in China, plans to raise
$124 million by offering 13.43 million ADRs at $7.25 to $9.25
apiece on Nov. 1, its SEC filing showed.  SinoTech Energy , which
provides enhanced oil recovery services in China, is seeking
$188 million the next day, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  SodaStream International Ltd. , the Airport City, Israel-
based seller of home soda makers, will also attempt to sell $95
million of shares.  Costamare Inc. , the Athens-based owner of
container ships, plans to raise $226 million on Nov. 3.  Fresh Market, Primo Water  Three U.S. companies will sell shares the following day.
 Fresh Market Inc. , the Greensboro, North Carolina-based grocer,
is attempting the biggest IPO of the week with a $264 million
offering, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The grocery chain is selling 13.2 million shares at $18 to
$20 each, its SEC filing showed. At the middle of the forecast
range, Fresh Market would be valued at 16.4 times net assets,
according to IPODesktop.com in Marina del Rey, California.  That’s almost six times higher than the ratio of 2.9 for
Austin, Texas-based Whole Foods Market Inc., which Fresh Market
identified as a competitor in its regulatory filing.  Both grocery chains are valued at 25 times estimated
earnings, according to IPODesktop.com.  Primo Water Corp. , the Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based
provider of bottled water and water dispensers, and  Cutanea Life
Sciences Inc. , the Malvern, Pennsylvania-based developer of
treatments for skin conditions such as rosacea and acne, are
also scheduled to sell shares on Nov. 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 