-- Ivory Coast's Soro Urges Candidates to Respect Vote in Election Tomorrow
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2010-10-30T16:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/ivory-coast-s-soro-urges-candidates-to-respect-vote-in-election-tomorrow.html
(Corrects fifth graph to say army, not Soro, says 8,000
troops will be deployed.)  Ivory Coast Prime Minister  Guillaume Soro  urged candidates in tomorrow’s presidential election to
respect the results and said the tally would be “unquestioned”
and voters safe as troops secure polling stations.  “All the candidates have to commit themselves to accept
the results proclaimed by the electoral commission,” the former
rebel leader told reporters in Abidjan, the nation’s commercial
capital. “The loser must salute the winner, and the winner must
have humility in his victory.”  Ivory Coast is holding its first presidential election in a
decade this weekend after five years of delays. The world’s
biggest cocoa producer has been divided into a rebel-held
northern area and the government-controlled south since a civil
war in 2002. Soro became prime minster after the rebels signed a
peace deal in 2007.  Votes will be counted both manually and electronically,
Soro said. “This will reinforce the credibility of the results,
which will be unquestionable, and unquestioned,” he said.  Both national army troops and ex-rebels, will be deployed
to every polling station, he said. The army has said 8,000
troops will be deployed.  The United Nations said two days ago that it increased the
number of its patrols in the country, especially in Abidjan and
in the north and west of the country. The UN has 8,000 soldiers
and 1,500 policemen in Ivory Coast.  Text messaging will not be blocked during on election day,
contrary to what some Ivorian newspapers announced yesterday,
Soro said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  