-- Obama Asks Republicans to Ease Partisanship `Win or Lose' After Elections
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-10-30T10:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/obama-asks-republicans-to-ease-partisanship-win-lose-or-draw-.html
President  Barack Obama  challenged
Republicans to set aside partisan difference after the election,
“win lose or draw,” and pursue “practical steps” to
invigorate the economy and create jobs.  “Whatever the outcome on Tuesday, we need to come together
to help put people who are still looking for jobs back to
work,” Obama said in his weekly radio and Internet address.  Obama said there are “some practical steps we can take
right away to promote growth and encourage businesses to hire
and expand.” He cited his proposals for extending lower tax
rates for the middle class, set to expire at the end of the
year, for expanding a research tax credit and letting businesses
immediately deduct the cost of equipment purchases.  Obama is scheduled to spend the last weekend before the
election campaigning for Democratic candidates in Pennsylvania,
Connecticut, Illinois and Ohio. In his address, he said remarks
made by Republican leaders during the campaign suggest they
aren’t interested in compromise.  “It’s not surprising that we’re seeing this heated
rhetoric,” Obama said. “But when the ballots are cast and the
voting is done, we need to put this kind of partisanship aside -
- win, lose, or draw.”  House Minority Leader  John Boehner  used the final
Republican  address  before the Nov. 2 vote to accuse Obama of
falling short of his campaign promises and to call for new
leadership in Washington.  Republican Address  “In the final days of the 2008 campaign, Barack Obama
promised to ‘change this country and change the world,’” said
Boehner, an Ohio lawmaker positioned to become speaker if
Republicans gain a majority in the House of Representatives. “I
don’t know about the world, but here at home, Americans haven’t
experienced the change President Obama promised.”  “One in 10 of our fellow citizens is out of work,” he
said, in an  address  that was taped earlier this week. “Our
national debt has grown by $3 trillion. Trust in government has
fallen to an all-time low.  Nonpartisan political analysts, including  Charlie Cook  of
the  Cook Political Report  in Washington, project that Democrats
will likely lose several seats in the Senate and cede to
Republicans control of the House.  Obama and Democratic congressional candidates are trying to
contend with an electorate where voter concerns about the
economy dominate.  The Commerce Department said yesterday the economy grew at
a 2 percent annual rate in the third quarter, fueled by consumer
spending that increased the most in almost four years. Consumer
spending accounts for about 70 percent of the U.S. economy.  Economic Growth  The pace of  growth  matched the level expected by analysts
in a Bloomberg News survey and was an improvement over the 1.7
percent gain in the previous three months. The growth didn’t cut
a jobless rate at 9.6 percent in September and August.  The president has said he expects the period after the
November election may present more opportunities for bipartisan
cooperation on issues including the  deficit , education and
energy policy.  “We can spend the next two years arguing with one another,
trapped in stale debates, mired in gridlock, unable to make
progress in solving the serious problems facing our country,”
he said in his address. “Or we can do what the American people
are demanding that we do. We can move forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva@bloomberg.net  