-- Obama Wooing Democratic Base on Final Campaign Swing of Midterm Elections
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-10-31T04:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/obama-wooing-democratic-base-on-final-campaign-swing-of-midterm-elections.html
President  Barack Obama  embarked on a
final weekend of campaigning in four states to try to stem a
potential Republican wave in next week’s congressional elections.  Obama went to the center of his political base last night
for a rally a few blocks from his home on Chicago’s South Side
designed to motivate Democratic voters and boost the party’s
candidate bidding to win the president’s old U.S. Senate seat.  That Obama was forced to spend part of the final campaign
weekend in Illinois, where all of the statewide elected
officials are Democrats, illustrated the defensive position he
and his party have been forced into by a political environment
that could reshape control of Washington.  “Chicago, in three days, you have the chance to set the
direction of this state and this country for years to come,”
Obama told an audience gathered outdoors near the  University of
Chicago . “And, just like you did in 2008, you can defy the
conventional wisdom.”  Obama, who taught at the university’s law school, has
placed his political prestige on the line in Illinois. He has
made three appearance for  Alexi Giannoulias , the Democratic
state treasurer seeking the Illinois Senate seat Obama once held.
That rivals his effort for Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ,
who is trailing in the most recent Nevada polls against
Republican  Sharron Angle .  Knocking on Doors  “I need you to knock on some doors,” Obama told the
Chicago crowd. “I need you to talk to your neighbors. I need
you to get out and vote.”  Mark Kirk , the Republican nominee, and Giannoulias have
spent much of their campaign debating who is least trustworthy.
Giannoulias has dealt with fallout from the April failure of his
family’s Broadway Bank, while Kirk was forced to apologize for
exaggerating his biography.  Kirk, a five-term congressman from Chicago’s northern
suburbs, led 44 percent to 41 percent in a Chicago Tribune/WGN-
TV  poll  taken Oct. 18-22 that had a 3.7 percentage point margin
of error.  Giannoulias has featured Obama in his television ads, a
rarity among Democrats this election season.  “Will we, can we, join President Obama to move this great
country forward?” Giannoulias asked before the president spoke.
“Yes we can.”  Kirk is scheduled to appear today in Chicago with
Republican Senator  Scott Brown  of Massachusetts. Brown won a
January special election in a state that, like Illinois,
historically leans Democratic.  Republican View  Republicans said Obama’s hometown effort on behalf of
Giannoulias showed the candidate’s vulnerability.  “The visit today says more about Alexi’s weakness as a
candidate than anything,” Illinois Republican Party Chairman
Pat Brady told reporters on a conference call yesterday.  Republicans are projected to gain a net of least 55 U.S.
House seats by the  Rothenberg Political Report , a nonpartisan
publication based in Washington. Republicans need a 39-seat gain
to take control of the chamber.  Rothenberg and other a nalysts  say Democrats have a better
chance of keeping control of the U.S. Senate, where Republicans
would need to gain 10 seats to take control.  Asked if Democrats could hold the House,  David Axelrod , a
senior adviser to Obama, expressed confidence.  “I think we’ve got a great shot to do that,” he said.
“We’re not writing anything off.”  Economic Concerns  The midterm campaign has been shaped by a national
 unemployment rate  at or above 9.5 percent for the last 14 months,
criticism of the White House’s domestic agenda and an anti-
Washington sentiment reflected in the Tea Party movement.  Republican dominance even in one chamber likely would set
back Obama’s agenda. The loss of Democratic governorships could
add extra hurdles to any Obama bid for reelection in 2012
because of the assistance they can provide in critical swing
states such as Ohio.  At a rally today in Cleveland, Obama will be joined by Vice
President  Joe Biden  at a stop for the benefit of Democratic
Governor  Ted Strickland , who is in a close race with Republican
 challenger   John Kasich , a former congressman.  In Ohio’s Senate race, polls show Republican  Rob Portman 
leading Democrat  Lee Fisher  to fill the seat left vacant by the
retirement of Republican  George Voinovich .  Cleveland is one of four finalists to host the 2012
Democratic National Convention, where Obama will likely seek re-
nomination for a second term.  Reviving Support  Throughout yesterday’s events, Obama tried to reignite the
energy that propelled him to the White House as he urged
supporters to “finish what we started” in 2008.  The president called on his supporters to fight to prevent
Republicans from winning congressional control.  “We have tried what they are selling right now,” he told
an audience of about 9,000 in a nearly full arena in Bridgeport,
Connecticut. “We are not going back to that. That is the choice
in this election.”  Obama, 49, made the Connecticut stop to support Democratic
Senate candidate  Richard Blumenthal , who is leading in the polls
in his contest with Republican nominee  Linda McMahon , a Tea
Party favorite and former chief executive officer of  World
Wrestling Entertainment Inc.   Obama also stopped in Philadelphia, seeking to boost
Representative  Joe Sestak , a Democrat in a close Senate race
with former Representative  Pat Toomey , a Republican. Sestak
needs a strong turnout among Philadelphia voters, especially
among blacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  