-- U.S. Defense Department Sees No Rare-Earths Crisis; May Aid U.S. Producers
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2010-10-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/pentagon-sees-no-security-threat-from-rare-earths-may-aid-u-s-producers.html
The U.S. Defense Department has
concluded that China’s monopoly on rare-earth materials, used in
military hardware such as missile guidance and radar systems,
poses no threat to national security, according to a person
familiar with a year-long study by the Pentagon.  The report notes that rising prices and supply
uncertainties are spurring private investment in new mining
operations outside of China that will help meet American
military needs, which require less than 5 percent of U.S. rare-
earth consumption.  China now provides 97 percent of the world’s rare earths, a
group of 17 metals that includes neodymium, samarium, and
dysprosium.  The study, conducted by the Pentagon’s Office of Industrial
Policy, raises the possibility that the Defense Department may
help prospective U.S. providers such as  Molycorp Inc ., the
person said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the
report has not yet been released publicly.  The findings and recommendations may be presented this week
to U.S. lawmakers, who have been alarmed by China’s actions
since July to reduce rare-earths exports by about three-
quarters. The House on Sept. 29 passed legislation that includes
authority for federal loan guarantees for domestic rare-earth
producers, and House members such as Representative  Bart Gordon ,
chairman of the Committee on Science and Technology, have urged
senators to act on the measure during the post-election session
because of concern about China’s market dominance.  Bombs and Lasers  China’s export-quota cuts and delays in Customs’ clearance
have led to sharply higher prices and supply concerns among
users, including manufacturers of mobile phones, computer hard-
disk drives and flat-screen monitors.  Supply constraints haven’t stopped production of equipment
such as radar, precision-guided bombs, and night-vision
equipment that require powerful magnets and lasers made with
rare-earth materials, the Defense Department study found.  The Pentagon expects the supply situation to improve by
2013 once rare-earth mines outside of China, such as one planned
by Australia’s  Lynas Corp. Ltd ., begin operations next year,
said the person familiar with the findings.  The study says that demand-supply gaps for neodymium,
dysprosium, praseodymium, each used in magnets, as well as for
yttrium, used in lasers, are likely persist longer than for the
13 other elements, and that commercial manufacturers such as
 General Electric Co ., maker of wind turbines that use neodymium-
iron-boron magnets, are likely to face more shortages than
defense contractors, the study found.  Loan Guarantee  The study recommends, among other steps, an examination of
how the Defense Department could aid companies such as Molycorp,
which has applied to the Energy Department for $280 million in
U.S. government loan guarantees to help finance restarting its
open-pit, rare-earths mine in Mountain Pass, California, in the
Mojave Desert.  The mine once met almost all the world’s demand for rare-
earth metals. It shut down in 2002 due to competition from
cheaper Chinese supplies. Molycorp plans to resume production by
the end of 2012.  Under  Title III  of the Defense Production Act of 1950, the
Pentagon can provide financial incentives to industry to make
investments in production capabilities for materials deemed to
be in the national interest.  The study recommends more international cooperation among
mine operators, magnet-makers and governments that use the
components. It also calls for more research by national
laboratories into alternatives or substitutes for rare-earth-
based components.  Tracking Materials  The Pentagon found that neither defense contractors, like
 Lockheed Martin Corp .,  Raytheon Co ., and  General Dynamics Corp .,
nor government agencies currently track the use of rare-earth
materials in the thousands of weapons bought by the U.S.
military. The rare-earth components that go into the systems are
treated like commodities, the person said.  Magnets made with samarium-cobalt are widely used in
defense applications because the material maintains its magnetic
properties even in high-heat conditions found inside missiles
and bombs, the Pentagon found in its assessment.  China accounts for about 36 percent of global rare-earth
reserves, the largest share, and the U.S. is second, with 13
percent, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. Chinese
officials including Premier  Wen Jiabao  have said the country has
not halted shipments of material and will continue to supply the
material.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  