-- Portuguese Government, Opposition Reach Budget Deal After Bond Prices Slip
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-10-30T12:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/portuguese-government-opposition-reach-budget-deal-after-bond-prices-slip.html
Portugal’s government and biggest
opposition party reached an agreement that will allow the 2011
budget to pass as the nation aims to narrow the euro region’s
fourth-biggest fiscal shortfall.  “The country is going through a difficult period, and
understandings are necessary for fundamental policies,”  Eduardo Catroga , a former finance minister who represented the
opposition Social Democratic Party in the talks, said in Lisbon
today. “The agreement is good for Portugal.”  The government agreed to reconsider large public-works
projects and public-private partnerships, said Catroga, whose
party has demanded fewer tax increases and greater spending
reductions. On Oct. 27, the Socialist government and the Social
Democrats said they halted talks on a proposal that includes the
biggest spending cuts since at least the 1970s, prompting a
decline in Portuguese bonds for the week amid renewed concern
the country will struggle to fund itself.  Parliament will start discussing the 2011 budget on Nov. 2
and an initial vote is scheduled for the next day.  “This will be the most important budget of the last 25
years,” Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos  said
today at a press conference in Lisbon broadcast by television
channel SIC Noticias. Teixeira dos Santos said additional
measures may be needed to meet next year’s budget target
following the agreement with the Social Democrats.  Social Democratic leader  Pedro Passos Coelho  had said on
Oct. 20 that the party may abstain in the vote, allowing the
2011 budget to pass, as long as the government considered its
proposals. Passos Coelho had called for a “greater ambition”
to cut state spending and prevent additional cost increases for
infrastructure projects and public-private partnerships.  Record Borrowing  Prime Minister  Jose Socrates , lacking a parliamentary
majority, needs the largest opposition party to back the budget
or abstain for it to be passed.  Portugal’s  borrowing costs  soared to a euro-era record on
Sept. 28 as the Social Democrats threatened to vote against the
budget proposal.  Europe’s sovereign debt-crisis took hold at the end of 2009
after Greece’s newly elected government said the budget deficit
was twice as big as the previous administration disclosed. In
April, Greece tapped a 110 billion-euro ($153 billion) loan
facility from the European Union and the International Monetary
Fund after being shut out of debt markets. The EU then passed a
750 billion-euro backstop for the rest of the euro region after
borrowing costs surged for high-deficit nations.  Bond Sale  Teixeira dos Santos has said that Portugal won’t need to
tap the euro-region’s rescue fund. Portugal doesn’t face a bond
redemption until next year, and plans to sell about 1 billion
euros of bills due October 2011 and February 2011 on Nov. 3.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Portuguese
bonds rather than German bunds, the European benchmark, was at
343 basis points yesterday. The spread hit a record 441 basis
points in September.  Teixeira dos Santos  on Oct. 27 had said failure to pass the
budget “will plunge the country into a profound financial
crisis with very serious consequences for our economy, in which
we’ll see the channels of financing for our economy blocked.”  The government plans to lower the wage bill by 5 percent
for public workers earning more than 1,500 euros a month, freeze
hiring and raise the value-added tax by 2 percentage points to
23 percent.  Spending Cuts  The planned spending cuts for next year are set to be the
biggest since at least 1978, according to Eurostat, the EU’s
statistics office. Moody’s Investors Service said on Oct. 18
that the government was responding “adequately” to market
pressures to lower the deficit. Portugal is rated A1 by Moody’s
and A- by Standard & Poor’s.  The nation’s budget gap reached 9.3 percent of gross
domestic product last year, the highest ratio in the euro region
after Ireland, Greece and Spain. It aims to lower the  shortfall 
to 7.3 percent this year, 4.6 percent in 2011 and meet the EU’s
3 percent limit in 2012.  The Finance Ministry forecasts Portugal’s public debt as a
percentage of GDP will increase to 86.6 percent in 2011 from
about 82.1 percent this year. Teixeira dos Santos said on Oct.
16 that he expects the ratio to “stabilize” in 2012 and to
start declining in 2013.  The cuts may hurt Portugal’s  economic growth , which has
averaged less than 1 percent a year in the past decade, compared
with 1.3 percent for the euro region. The budget includes a
forecast for growth of 0.2 percent next year, slower than an
estimated expansion of 1.3 percent for this year.  Jorg Decressin , head of the International Monetary Fund’s
world economic studies division, on Oct. 6 said that the
Portuguese economy may contract 1.4 percent next year if new
deficit-cutting measures are taken into account.  Standard & Poor’s said on Oct. 4 that it expects the
Portuguese economy to shrink 1.8 percent next year and stagnate
in 2012. Portugal probably won’t default on its debt even as the
economy fails to grow in the next two years, S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 