-- Race for Obama's Former U.S. Senate Seat Draws Most Hidden Campaign Money
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-10-30T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/race-for-obama-s-former-u-s-senate-seat-draws-most-hidden-campaign-money.html
For President  Barack Obama , the
anonymous campaign money pervading this year’s congressional
elections literally hits home.  The  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  and Republican strategist  Karl Rove ’s Crossroads GPS poured $6.2 million into the race for
Obama’s former U.S. Senate seat in Illinois between Sept. 1 and
Oct. 27. They accounted for almost all of the $6.3 million spent
on the contest by groups that aren’t required to disclose their
donors, the most for any campaign nationwide.  Virtually all of the money in Illinois is going to benefit
Republican  Mark Kirk . It may tilt the balance in a race
considered a  tossup  by the nonpartisan Cook Political Report and
one drawing personal attention from Obama, who will attend a
Democratic Party rally in Chicago today.  The idea behind the spending is, “let’s give the
president a black eye,” said  Linda Fowler , a government
professor at Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire.  Outside money has given Kirk an edge of about $7 million in
a race where party and candidate spending is about even.  While Kirk had spent about $3 million more than Democratic
candidate  Alexi Giannoulias  through Oct. 13, the Democratic
Senatorial Campaign Committee topped its Republican counterpart
by about the same amount between Sept. 1 and Oct. 27 to help
Giannoulias, Federal Election Commission records show. Outside
groups, including those that disclose their donors, spent $9.2
million on the race during the same period, with $8.4 million
aiding Kirk, according to the data.  Obama Question  “The question for the people of Illinois is, are you going
to let special interests from Wall Street and Washington and
maybe places beyond our shores come to this state and tell us
who our senator should be?” Obama asked while appearing with
Giannoulias at an Oct. 7 fundraiser in Chicago.  The Chamber, the nation’s biggest business lobbying group
that gets its money mainly from corporations, has opposed
efforts by Democrats to require nonprofit groups funding
election ads to identify their donors.  “With one in 10 people in Illinois  looking for work , we
feel it’s important to highlight where the Senate candidates
stand on issues that impact job creation,” said  J.P. Fielder , a
Chamber spokesman.  ‘Once a Decade’  Rove, who raises money for Crossroads GPS and serves as an
adviser, declined to comment. A Crossroads spokesman,  Jonathan Collegio , said it sees the Illinois Senate race as a way to
shift the map of Democratic, or “blue,” states.  “This is a seat that belonged to President Obama in a deep
blue state, yet Republicans have an incredible opportunity to
pick it up,” Collegio said. “It’s a once-a-decade chance.”  While Kirk voted against legislation requiring outside
groups to reveal their donors, he has spoken in favor of
disclosure. “We don’t want to silence any political voice, but
we should have them disclose all of their donors, both from the
left and the right,” he said during an Oct. 27 debate.  Scott Burnham, a spokesman for Giannoulias, criticized
“shadowy donors” helping Kirk. “Illinois voters are sick of
Karl Rove and Mark Kirk politics,” Burnham said.  Wider Trend  The spending pattern in Illinois Senate race is part of a
wider trend for the Nov. 2 elections. Groups that don’t disclose
their donors spent $98 million to help Republicans between Sept.
1 and Oct. 27, compared with $5 million to aid Democrats.  “These outside groups are up to dominating the discourse
in certain campaigns, but we have little idea why they’re doing
it and no idea who their funders are,” said Dave Levinthal, a
spokesman for the  Center for Responsive Politics , which tracks
campaign finance. “It’s like walking down the street and
hearing a voice from the sky telling you do to something.”  Republicans need a net gain of 39 House seats and 10 Senate
seats to win control of the congressional chambers.  After the Illinois Senate race, donors making anonymous
contributions are putting the most money into Senate races in
California, Washington and Nevada.  In each case, a Democratic incumbent -- including Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada -- is battling to hold on
in a race that the Washington-based  Cook report  considers a
tossup. And in each case, the spending by groups opposing the
Democrats exceeds the spending by groups favoring them.  The vulnerable Democrat in Washington is  Patty Murray , who
holds a party leadership post, and in California it’s  Barbara Boxer , who heads a committee that oversees energy interests.  Companies “don’t want to antagonize” Democratic leaders,
especially if the party retains Senate control, so contributing
to the outside groups is a way to mask their involvement, said
Fowler, the Dartmouth professor.  House Races  Only two House races crack the 10 with the most spending by
the outside groups; those contests feature Democrats  Dina Titus 
of Nevada and  Ed Perlmutter  of Colorado fending off challenges
from Republicans in states that also have tight Senate
campaigns. Senate races in Pennsylvania, Florida, Colorado and
Missouri round out the list.  Republican groups often point to spending by labor unions
that’s helping balance out their own funds. The  American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees  alone says
it’s spending $90 million. By comparison, the Chamber plans to
spend $75 million for the elections.  Much of the union money is going to get-out-the-vote
efforts and isn’t reflected in advertising. Unions also get
almost all their funds from member dues and their accounts are
monitored by the Labor Department so they are more transparent,
said  Cindi Canary , executive director of the Chicago-based
 Illinois Campaign for Political Reform , an advocacy group that
supports stronger campaign-finance and ethics laws.  At some point, all the spending on TV campaign ads may
start to lose its power, she said.  “I think we hit saturation a week or two ago,” Canary
said. “Everybody I know is reading books this week.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  