-- U.S. Economy Grew 2% as Consumer Spending Rises
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-10-30T04:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/treasury-30-year-yields-climb-most-since-december-on-inflation-prospects.html
Treasury 30-year bond yields climbed
the most in 10 months in October as U.S.  securities  fell amid
speculation that asset purchases by the Federal Reserve will
reignite inflation.  The gap in yields on 30-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities and comparable U.S. bonds, the breakeven rate that
indicates trader expectations for prices over the life of the
securities, widened yesterday to the most in five months. A sale
of five-year TIPS this week drew the first negative yield at a
U.S. debt offering as investors speculated returns will be
positive when inflation rises. The Fed meets Nov. 2-3.  “People generally don’t want to fight the Fed,” said
 Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP
Paribas Securities Corp., one of 18 primary dealers that trade
with the central bank. “One area you really don’t want to fight
the Fed is TIPS breakevens.”  The yield on the  30-year Treasury  bond rose 30 basis
points, or 0.30 percentage point, to 3.99 percent, from 3.69
percent on Sept. 30, according to BGCantor Market Data. The
3.875 percent security due in August 2040 dropped 5 9/32, or
$52.81 per $1,000 face value to 98 2/32.  Ten-year  Treasury yields rose nine basis points to 2.6
percent, from 2.51 percent at the end of last month. They rose
for six straight days through Oct. 27 as the securities slid for
the longest period since October 2008. Yields on  seven-year debt 
fell two basis points to 1.89 percent.  First Drop Since March  Treasuries overall lost investors 0.4 percent through Oct.
28, the first monthly decline since a 0.9 percent drop in March,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes showed. They’re up 8.3
percent in 2010, reflecting demand for the relative safety of
government debt as the U.S. economic recovery faltered. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500  Index rose 6.1 percent this month.  Thirty-year bonds pared their monthly loss yesterday after
primary dealer Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said any so-called
quantitative easing by the Fed to spur the economy would likely
include purchases of the maturity.  Data yesterday showed the Fed’s preferred inflation measure
rose less than forecast, adding to speculation policy makers
will boost asset purchases. The  price gauge , a measure of
personal consumption that strips out food and energy costs, rose
at a 0.8 percent annual pace in the third quarter, less than the
1 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, according
to Commerce Department figures.  U.S. gross domestic product increased at a 2 percent annual
rate from July through September, in line with economists’
forecasts, Commerce Department data showed. The pace was 1.7
percent in the second quarter and 3.7 percent in the first.  Inflation ‘Trigger’  “We have softer-than-expected inflation data,” said  Dan Mulholland , a Treasury trader in New York at primary dealer
Royal Bank of Canada. “The GDP is a positive sign going
forward, but inflation data will trigger whether or not the Fed
does QE.”  The difference between yields on 30-year bonds and
comparable TIPS widened 52 basis points to 2.59 percentage
points, the most since May 13. The gap between 10-year notes and
 TIPS  increased 33 basis points this month to 2.15 percentage
points, the most since May 18.  “Inflation-linked bonds outperformed nominal Treasuries
significantly because of expectations that a fresh round of
quantitative easing will lead to inflation,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets
Ltd. in Edinburgh.  Negative Yield  A $10 billion auction of five-year TIPS on Oct. 25 drew a
yield of minus 0.55 percent. The bid-to-cover ratio, a gauge of
demand that compares the amount bid with the amount offered, was
2.84, above the average of 2.38 at the previous 10 auctions of
the security.  The U.S. also auctioned $35 billion in two-year debt, $35
billion in five-year securities and $29 billion in seven-year
notes this week. The two- and five-year debt sales also had
higher-than-average demand amid speculation the Fed’s efforts
may not bring the economy back to full speed quickly.  Policy makers will probably announce next week asset
purchases at an initial pace of $75 billion to $100 billion a
month, strategists at primary dealer Citigroup Inc. including
 Brett Rose  and  Joseph Leary  wrote in a note. While they forecast
$500 billion to $750 billion in buys over six to nine months,
they wrote that the central bank is unlikely to commit to a
specific time period.  $2 Trillion  Other estimates for the ultimate size of an asset-purchase
program range from $1 trillion at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch
Global Research to $2 trillion at Goldman Sachs. Economists at
both firms said the Fed will likely start by announcing $500
billion next week.  A resumption of asset purchases by policy makers would
likely include 30-year Treasury bonds, Goldman Sachs said in a
note to clients.  Buying 30-year bonds may cause the difference in yield
between them and 10-year Treasuries to narrow,  Francesco Gazarelli , a London-based analyst at Goldman Sachs, wrote in an
e-mailed note. The gap in yields was 1.38 percentage points
yesterday, versus a five-year average of 0.53 percentage point.  “It’s the first time we’re hearing someone voice the
opinion publicly that the Fed’s going to have to do something
different in terms of QE,” said  Gary Pollack , who helps oversee
$12 billion as head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank
AG’s Private Wealth Management unit in New York. “Goldman’s a
respected voice on the street saying the Fed’s going to have to
go out to 30s to do something.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  