-- Reliance Industries Profit Jumps 28% as Gas Output, Refining Earnings Rise
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-10-30T11:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/reliance-industries-profit-jumps-28-as-gas-output-refining-earnings-rise.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. , India’s
biggest company by market value, posted its highest quarterly
profit since 2007 after growing fuel demand boosted refining
earnings and natural gas production rose.  Net income  in the three months ended Sept. 30 rose 28
percent from a year earlier to 49.2 billion rupees ($1.1
billion), or 15.1 rupees a share, the Mumbai-based energy
explorer and refiner said in a statement to the Bombay Stock
Exchange today. Gains from processing crude oil into fuels
climbed 32 percent.  Reliance joins Valero Energy Corp., the largest U.S. oil
refiner, and China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., Asia’s biggest,
in reporting higher earnings as global economic growth spurred
demand for gasoline and diesel. Gains in output from India’s
largest gas field and refining margins helped Chairman  Mukesh Ambani  buy shale-gas assets in the U.S. and to plan investments
in telecommunications and power generation.  “Demand for fuels has increased over the past year and
that has boosted refining,” said  Apurva Shah , head of research
at Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. in Mumbai. “General economic
conditions have improved, and governments are trying to keep it
going. That should keep the demand growth steady and help
margins.”  Fuel Demand  Reliance, which has the biggest  weighting  in India’s
benchmark Sensitive Index, rose 1.3 percent to 1,096.25 rupees
in Mumbai trading yesterday, valuing the company at $81 billion.
The stock has gained 1 percent this year, trailing the 15
percent increase in the index.  Sales rose 23 percent in the second quarter of the year
ending March 31, boosting profit to the highest since Dec. 31,
2007. The  average  estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for net income of 48.9 billion rupees in the period.  Exports of oil products surged 79 percent from a year
earlier to $13.4 billion in the quarter, with overseas sales
volume increasing 49 percent to 19.7 million metric tons,
according to today’s statement.  Average global demand for oil products increased 2.8
percent to 87.1 million barrels a day in the quarter from a year
earlier, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Reliance operates the world’s largest oil-refining complex
and chemical plants and owns fuel outlets and a retail-store
chain. The 1.24 million barrel-a-day complex consists of two
adjacent refineries at Jamnagar in the western Indian state of
Gujarat.  Refining Margins  The company earned $7.9 on every barrel of crude turned to
fuels in the quarter, compared with $6 a barrel a year earlier,
the company said. Pretax profit from refining increased 63
percent to 21.9 billion rupees.  Global refining margins, or earnings from processing oil
into fuel, rose to $4.53 a barrel in the three-month period from
$3.42 a year earlier, according to data compiled by  BP Plc . The
margin was $5.49 a barrel in the quarter ended June 30.  Crude oil in New York gained 12 percent to an average
$76.20 a barrel in the quarter, boosted by demand from India and
China, Asia’s two fastest growing economies. Crude oil for
December delivery fell 75 cents to settle at $81.43 a barrel on
the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday.  The KG-D6 field in the Bay of Bengal, off India’s east
coast, started in April last year and reached 40 million cubic
meters a day in six months, helping India increase output of the
cleaner-burning fuel at the fastest pace in the world last year.
Output has remained static at 60 million cubic meters this year
because a review of the reservoir and safety procedures forced
Reliance to delay a planned increase to 80 million cubic meters.  Reliance cut crude oil output in the MA field in the KG-D6
area by 29 percent since April after wells were unable to
sustain higher production rates, a person familiar with the
matter said Oct. 1.  Diversifying Business  Net sales rose to 574.8 billion rupees, Reliance said. The
company had 293.5 billion rupees in cash and equivalent.
Outstanding debt as of Sept. 30 was 682 billion rupees.  With gas production stagnant in India in the last three
quarters, Reliance is diversifying from its core energy business
at home. The explorer said it plans to spend at least $5 billion
over the next five years to develop shale-gas areas in the U.S.  Reliance paid $943 million to buy three shale-gas assets in
the U.S. this year and agreed to spend $2.5 billion in future
drilling costs on behalf of its partners.  Reliance bought a 14.8 percent stake in  EIH Ltd. , owner of
India’s luxury Oberoi hotel chain, in August. The group includes
a Mumbai hotel that was damaged in the November 2008 terror
attack.  India’s economy expanded 8.8 percent, the fastest pace in 2
1/2 years, in the three months ended June 30, bolstering demand
for services and providing alternative sources of revenue for
Reliance.  Ambani, 53, has invested more than $1.2 billion in a
broadband company and a cargo carrier and has announced plans to
build hospitals, universities and set up a sports marketing
company.  Reliance expects its retail-store business revenue to grow
10-fold to 450 billion rupees in five years, Ambani told
shareholders June 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 