-- Tribune Creditor Groups Submit Rival Reorganization Plans for Publisher
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-10-30T08:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/tribune-creditor-aurelius-capital-management-submits-rival-reorganization.html
Three groups of  Tribune Co. 
creditors filed competing proposals to reorganize the newspaper
publisher and bring it out of bankruptcy.  The three proposals and a fourth plan supported by the
company and its senior lenders will compete for creditor votes.
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin J. Carey  will take those votes into
consideration when he decides which plan to approve.  The filings continue a court battle among creditor groups
over how to divide ownership of Chicago-based Tribune. The
creditors can’t agree on how to resolve fraud allegations
involving the company’s 2007 leveraged buyout, which added more
than $8 billion to Tribune’s  debt .  All of the plans would let the company’s newspapers and
television stations leave bankruptcy while lawsuits related to
the  buyout , which was led by real estate billionaire  Sam Zell ,
go forward. They differ in how $6.75 billion worth of stock,
cash and a new term loan is divided among the creditors and
lenders.  The proposal by the lowest-ranking creditors, lead by
bondholder Aurelius Capital Management LP, “offers a surer and
quicker path for Tribune to emerge from bankruptcy while
preserving a level playing field for resolving all LBO-related
litigation afterward” Aurelius Chairman  Mark Brodsky  said in a
statement.  Competing Creditors  Each plan represents a different group of creditors, with
one supported by Aurelius and other pre-buyout bondholders, one
supported by a dissident group of senior lenders, one sponsored
by hedge fund manager King Street Capital LP, and a fourth
supported by Tribune management and sponsored by the leading
senior lenders.  Fighting among Tribune lenders and creditors, who together
are owed more than $12 billion, intensified after July 27 when
bankruptcy examiner  Kenneth N. Klee  released a report that
bolstered the position of lower-ranking creditors. Those
creditors, including noteholders owed $1.2 billion, said
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and the other buyout lenders should lose
their position among the first to be repaid because of the 2007
transaction.  Tribune’s lender-backed plan is supported by hedge funds
Angelo Gordon & Co. and  Oaktree Capital Management LP  as well
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and the majority of a panel of unsecured
creditors. The company also supports that plan.  Tribune Assets  Tribune, based in Chicago, owns the Chicago Tribune and the
Los Angeles Times, as well as television, radio stations and
stakes in cable channels. As part of its bankruptcy, the company
sold most of its stake in the Chicago Cubs Major League Baseball
team.  Under the lender plan, some targets of those lawsuits,
including JPMorgan, would be released from legal liability for
their actions related to the buyout.  Klee concluded in his report that the second part of the
two-stage buyout was an intentional fraudulent transfer because
it added more debt to Tribune than it could handle and benefited
no one except shareholders, Zell and the banks that organized
the loans.  Klee found that various parties involved in the buyout
acted in bad faith.  Yesterday a group of lenders sued JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. over the buyout,
claiming the banks knew the deal would ultimately fail.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 