-- Saudi Shares Advance, Led by Petrochemicals as China Doesn't Impose Duties
-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 2010-10-30T14:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/saudi-shares-advance-led-by-petrochemicals-as-china-doesn-t-impose-duties.html
Saudi Arabian shares gained the most
in a week, driven by petrochemical makers and banks, even as
U.S. and European stocks retreated.  The  Tadawul All Share Index  rose 0.7 percent to 6354.09,
the highest since Oct. 11, at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh.
 Saudi Basic Industries Corp. , the world’s largest petrochemicals
maker, known as Sabic and  Banque Saudi Fransi  led the advance,
paring the 146-company gauge’s monthly loss to 0.6 percent.  “Late buying into petrochemical names lifted the market in
the last half hour after news filtered into the market on the
Chinese decision not to impose any dumping fees on Saudi
producers of methanol,” said  Fuad Aghabi , investment director
at Ajeej Capital in Riyadh.  Sabic  rose 2.1 percent to 97 riyals, the highest since May
18.  Banque Saudi  rose 2.4 percent, the most in a week, to 46.8
riyals.  Al Rajhi Bank  increased 0.7 percent after Chief Executive
Officer  Abdullah Al Rajhi  said Oct. 28 that the kingdom’s
biggest publicly-traded lender plans to expand in Kuwait and
Jordan.  Saudi International Petrochemical Co.  soared 4 percent, the
most in almost five months, to 24.90 riyals. The petrochemical
maker known as Sipchem said China’s Ministry of Trade won’t
impose anti-dumping tariffs on methanol exported by Saudi
Arabian companies including a Sipchem unit known as
International Methanol Co.  Most  U.S. stocks  fell this week, with the  Dow  Jones
Industrial Average sliding 0.1 percent, as investors awaited
congressional elections and the Federal Reserve’s plans for
economic stimulus.  European stocks  had the first weekly decline
in four weeks, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  falling 0.3
percent.  Saudi Arabia’s index is the only Gulf Arab benchmark
tracked by Bloomberg that trades on a Saturday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mourad Haroutunian  in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 