-- Singapore Exchange's Bid for ASX Being Prejudged, Australian Minister Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-10-30T03:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/singapore-exchange-s-bid-for-asx-being-prejudged-australian-minister-says.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. ’s bid for
 ASX Ltd.  has been judged by its opponents without adequate
assessment, Australian Trade Minister  Craig Emerson  said.  “There’s been an unfortunate prejudgment of this
proposal,” Emerson said yesterday, according to a transcript of
his comments e-mailed by the Department of Foreign Affairs and
Trade today. Those opposed to the offer are “raising all sorts
of doubts about it before any assessment has been made,” he
said.  Singapore Exchange, part-owned by the city-state’s central
bank, on Oct. 25 offered to buy the owner of Australia’s stock
exchange for cash and shares in a deal worth A$8.1 billion ($8
billion), according to Bloomberg’s calculations based on
Singapore Exchange’s closing  price  of S$8.80 yesterday.  The transaction requires an amendment to Australia’s
Corporations Act, approved by parliament, which prohibits anyone
from owning more than 15 percent of ASX. Singapore Exchange
needs the support of the minority Labor government, which hasn’t
decided its stance on the deal, and at least four other
legislators in the lower house of parliament to approve the bid.  Australian lawmakers including two Greens party members,
opposition treasury spokesman  Joe Hockey  and two independents
said they oppose Singapore Exchange’s bid, saying it’s unlikely
to be in the best interests of Australians.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor government doesn’t
hold a majority in the lower house as the result of an election
on Aug. 21 that delivered the closest result in 70 years. It
needs the votes of the Greens and two independent lawmakers to
pass legislation.  ASX fell 2 percent to close at A$37.10 in Sydney yesterday.  Needs Regulators’ Approval  The transaction must be approved by Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
under foreign investment rules and by the  Australian Securities
& Investments Commission , the  Monetary Authority of Singapore 
and both sets of shareholders.  “It is of great concern, unless it can be proven otherwise,
that our major regional competitor is buying out our own stock
exchange,” Hockey told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio on
Oct. 26. On the day the bid was announced, independent  Bob Katter  called the proposal “lunacy on a grand scale,” and
Greens party leader  Bob Brown  said a day later he wouldn’t be
“facilitating or supporting” the takeover.  Emerson said opponents should wait for the outcome of an
assessment of the proposal before making a judgment. “The
professional approach in relation to the ASX proposal is one
that allows the authorities to do their work against this test:
is it in the national interest?” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  