-- Sun Pharmaceutical Profit Rises 12% on Higher Demand for Generic Medicines
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2010-10-30T12:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/sun-pharmaceutical-profit-rises-12-on-higher-demand-for-generic-medicines.html
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.,
India’s biggest drugmaker by market value, said second-quarter
profit rose 12 percent on higher demand for generic medicines.  Net income increased to 5.04 billion rupees ($113 million)
in the three months ended Sept. 30 from 4.5 billion rupees a
year earlier, the Mumbai-based company said today in a statement.
Profit beat the 3.66 billion rupee average of 17 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 15 percent to
13.7 billion rupees.  “As witnessed in the first six months of this fiscal, our
base business continues to progress well in line with our
expectations,” Chairman  Dilip Shanghvi  said in a statement
today. “The pace of product approvals remains good.”  Sun acquired a controlling stake in Yakum, Israel-based
 Taro Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  in September to expand
revenue in the U.S. after reporting a sales decline. The company
said on May 24 sales fell 4 percent to 41 billion rupees for the
year ended March 31.  “While the business is set to deliver the expected growth
as announced at the beginning of the year, the larger task ahead
is revitalizing Taro’s business,” Shanghvi said.  The  shares  fell 0.4 percent to 2,110.05 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. trading close in Mumbai yesterday. India’s benchmark
Sensitive Index gained 0.5 percent.  The Indian drugmaker completed the Taro stake purchase
after Israel’s Supreme Court ruled it could proceed with the
takeover. The acquisition gives Sun control over Taro’s
factories in Israel and Canada and expands its portfolio of
medicines in the U.S.  Sun’s generic medicines, sold in the U.S., the world’s
largest drug market, include those used to treat pain,
depression, hypertension and diabetes, according to the
company’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pratik Parija  in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
 Adi Narayan  in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net . 