-- Suzlon Reports Smaller-Than-Expected Loss on Domestic Orders
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-10-30T14:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/suzlon-energy-reports-smaller-than-expected-loss-on-higher-domestic-orders.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. , India’s biggest
maker of wind turbines, posted a smaller-than-expected loss in
the second quarter as increased domestic orders helped offset
weak demand in Europe.  The  loss  widened to 3.7 billion rupees ($83 million) from
3.6 billion rupees in the year-earlier period, according to an
e-mailed statement from the Ahmedabad-based company today. That
beat the 4.3 billion-rupee average loss estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Our order book has increased over the last two months,”
Chief Financial Officer  Robin Banerjee  said by telephone. Orders
jumped 35 percent to $5.4 billion from last year. “Primarily
bookings have come from India,” he said.  Demand from India and Brazil have helped compensate for a
slowdown in the wind sector in other markets, such as Europe
that accounted for 44 percent of Suzlon’s revenue in the most
recent fiscal year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
 Vestas Wind Systems A/S , the world’s largest wind-turbine maker,
said this week it will cut 3,000 European jobs because orders
may decline next year.  The company expects to win orders in the next few months
from Brazil and South Africa, Banerjee said. Brazil completed
two government auctions for 2.9 gigawatts of renewable energy
projects in August. Suzlon is bidding for 800 megawatts of
orders in South Africa, it said on Oct. 6.  Suzlon  shares  have fallen 39 percent this year compared
with a 15 percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive Index . The
stock declined 2.8 percent to 55.45 rupees yesterday, falling
for the fifth straight day.  Vestas, which is heading for its worst  annual performance 
since 2002, said on Oct. 26 that it will close four factories in
Denmark and Sweden.  Suzlon owns stakes in Belgium-based gearbox maker  Hansen
Transmissions International NV  and  Repower Systems AG , a German
wind-turbine maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  