-- U.S. Money Managers Turn Bullish on Stocks, Barron’s Reports
-- B y   M i n a   K a w a i
-- 2010-10-30T21:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/u-s-money-managers-turn-bullish-on-stocks-barron-s-big-money-poll-says.html
U.S. money managers are more
optimistic now than six months ago that the U.S. economy will
keep growing and company earnings and shares will rise, Barron’s
“Big Money” poll found.  Sixty percent of the professional investors queried by the
newspaper said they see higher equity prices next June, up from
46 percent in an April survey, the weekly newspaper reported in
its Nov. 1 edition.  Sixty-two percent of those responding named stocks as the
best performing asset in the next six to 12 months, while 15
percent said it would be precious metals. Another 13 percent
favored other commodities, Barron’s said. More than 60 percent
said commodity prices may keep rising, according to Barron’s.  About two-thirds of those in the survey said bonds have
reached “bubble proportions,” and 74 percent said the inflow
into bond funds may decline in months ahead, the newspaper said.  The U.S. dollar may rise against the euro during the next
year, 58 percent of the managers said. Fifty-four percent also
see the U.S. currency gaining against the yen, Barron’s said.  Cisco Systems Inc. ,  Microsoft Corp. ,  Apple Inc.  and
 Hewlett-Packard Co.  were most liked by managers as about 28
percent expect the technology companies to lead equities higher
from current levels, Barron’s said. Thirteen percent said
capital goods would perform best, while 11 percent named energy
and financial shares, according to Barron’s.  Technology and Dividends  Johnson & Johnson ,  Verizon Communications Inc. ,  Paychex
Inc.  and  Intel Corp. , all companies that pay dividends, are
popular with investors listing “safety and yield” as important
themes, the newspaper said.  While 70 percent said they expect more inflow into domestic
equity funds during the next six months, only 27 percent saw the
U.S. as home to the best-performing market, down from 44 percent
in the last survey, Barron’s said. Fifteen percent identified
China as the leader, followed by Brazil at 14 percent and India
at 9 percent.  Sixty-one percent of respondents approved the Federal
Reserve’s monetary policies, reflecting expectations that the
central bank officials may buy more Treasuries to provide
liquidity if the economic recovery slows, Barron’s said.  Seventy percent see Republicans taking control of the House
of Representatives after the Nov. 2 midterm election, and 17
percent said a “significant” Republican victory may trigger a
rally in the equity market, Barron’s said.  Obama and Romney  Twenty-nine percent said President  Barack Obama  will be re-
elected in 2012, and  Mitt Romney  was the favorite potential
Republican candidate with support of 28 percent of those
surveyed. Other candidates mentioned included  Tim Pawlenty  with
10 percent and  Chris Christie  with 4 percent.  The semi-annual “Big Money” poll was e-mailed to sole
proprietors as well as those who mange billions of dollars for
institutional clients in late September, when the Dow Jones
Industrial Average was at around 10,750, Standard & Poor’s 500
Index at 1,140 and the Nasdaq Composite Index at 2,350, Barron’s
said.  The survey, prepared in cooperation with Beta Research of
Syosset, New York, drew 109 responses, Barron’s reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mina Kawai  in New York at   minkawai@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net . 