-- U.S. Nuclear-Bomb Scan Ignored by Truckers, Boxes Go Unchecked
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2010-10-30T00:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/u-s-nuclear-bomb-detector-ignored-by-truckers-leaves-shipping-vulnerable.html
Two years after South Korea’s
busiest port installed a $3.5 million scanner to check U.S.-
bound shipping containers for nuclear weapons, the machine sits
idle because  truckers  won’t drive through it due to fears of
radiation exposure.  That means about 1.9 million containers left Busan for
American harbors last year without U.S.-mandated screening.
Singapore and Hong Kong, the world’s busiest and third-busiest
ports, also don’t participate. Nine years after the Sept. 11
attacks, less than 1 percent of the 14.5 million cargo boxes
reaching U.S. shores are scanned abroad, the government said.  A goal to screen all containers is opposed by the  Retail
Industry Leaders Association , a group representing  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. ,  Apple Inc.  and  Nike Inc.  “Prohibitive challenges”
involving cost and technology mean a July 1, 2012, deadline for
100 percent inspections will be delayed by at least two years,
 Department of Homeland Security  Secretary  Janet Napolitano  said.  “The system remains very vulnerable,” said  Stephen Flynn ,
president of the Washington-based  Center for National Policy ,
which studies security issues. “If I were an adversary who
wants to cause mass destruction to the global economy, this is
the system to target.”  Two packages shipped by air-freight from Yemen and directed
to Jewish institutions in Chicago were found in the U.K. and
Dubai containing explosive materials in what President  Barack Obama  said yesterday represented a “credible terrorist
threat.”  The Department of Homeland Security responded to the
discovery of the packages by increasing checks on people and
cargo.  High-Risk Cargo  U.S. senators  Patty Murray , a Washington Democrat facing
re-election Nov. 2, and  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican,
 introduced  legislation in July eliminating the 2012 deadline and
supporting a “layered security approach” toward “high-risk
cargo containers” identified by the U.S. Customs and Border
Protection agency. That approach started in 2006.  The retailers group, whose members also include  Home Depot
Inc. ,  Target Corp.  and  Costco Wholesale Corp. , endorsed the bill.
RILA supports current programs requiring shippers to send cargo
manifests to the Homeland Security Department 24 hours before a
container leaves a foreign port, said  Kelly Kolb , the group’s
vice president of global supply chain policy.  “It’s not effective or feasible to scan every container
that meets our shore,” Kolb said.  The association also asked whether U.S. taxpayers or U.S.
companies will pay for the scanners and the Customs personnel to
operate them. The Busan scanner was paid for by the U.S.
government.  $16.8 Billion  “That’s the question of the day,” Kolb said. “The
legislation is not particular on that.”  About 90 percent of world trade is carried by sea. Trade is
expected to grow by 11.4 percent this year and 7 percent next
year on the strength of emerging economies, the International
Monetary Fund  said  last month.  About 14.5 million loaded twenty-foot equivalent containers
reached the U.S. last year, the Army Corps of Engineers  said .  The Secure Freight Initiative  adopted  in 2007 requires the
U.S. to buy scanners, install them after reaching agreements
with host countries and use Customs personnel to man them.
Napolitano has told Congress it would cost about $16.8 billion
to deploy scanners in all ports.  Customs spent $61 million on the 100 percent scanning
program so far, said Jenny Burke, an  agency  spokeswoman. Current
scanners require staffing and cannot detect threats on their own,
Napolitano said in explaining her reasons for pushing the
mandatory deadline to at least 2014.  ‘New Trade Barrier’  “Most observers have serious doubts about whether that
will be ever implemented,” said  Ron Widdows , chief executive
officer of Singapore-based  Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. , owner of
Asia’s second-largest container company by capacity. “The
impact that will have on flow of commerce, not just in the U.S.
but in other parts of the world, will be fairly dramatic.”  A European Commission staff working  document  said in
February the mandate “may become a new trade barrier” and
trigger reciprocal actions requiring the U.S. to scan all
outbound cargo.  It would cost 10 percent more to ship goods from Europe to
the U.S., and European countries would spend 430 million euros
($595 million) initially to comply and 200 million euros
annually after that, the document said.  “It could actually bring the flow to a screeching halt,”
 American Association of Port Authorities  President  Kurt Nagle 
said.  ‘Virtually Unused’  U.S. Customs started pilot programs in 2007 in Puerto
Cortes, Honduras; Port Qasim, Pakistan; and Southampton, U.K.
They later expanded to Hong Kong, Busan and Oman’s Salalah.  Hong Kong scanned boxes from November 2007 to April 2009,
Jessie Law, spokeswoman for the customs and excise department,
said in an e-mail. About 24,000 containers were checked, and
each X-ray took less than a minute.  Singapore agreed to participate starting in late 2008. That
was aborted when U.S. Customs decided to focus on “high-risk
trade corridors,” the agency  said .  Busan, the world’s fifth-busiest port, handled 12 million
containers last year, with 16 percent going to the U.S. It
agreed to the scanner in 2008 because the U.S. is South Korea’s
third-biggest  export market  after China and Japan, the  Busan
Port Authority  said in an e-mail.  “The machine has virtually been unused since then,” the
authority said.  Truckers are supposed to drive rigs through the approximate
20-foot-high (6-meter-high) scanner before cargo is loaded on
ships. Yet the drivers balked.  The U.S. was planning to bring in new equipment that has
not yet arrived, the port authority said. Officials with U.S.
Customs in Busan declined to comment.  “The truckers have refused to conduct container screening
because we are worried about being exposed to radiation,” said
Cho Ik Ryeol, who leads the local union chapter. “There hasn’t
been any scanning.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  