-- Hungary to Cut State Jobs to Narrow 2011 Budget Deficit Under 3% of GDP
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-10-30T12:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/hungary-s-2011-budget-calls-for-government-job-cuts-pension-fund-income.html
Hungary plans to cut as many as
30,000 public-sector jobs next year to help push the  budget
deficit  below 3 percent of GDP, and predicts debt will fall as a
wave of private pension fund portfolios returns to the state.  The 2011 budget targets a shortfall of 2.94 percent of
gross domestic product, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said,
down from 3.8 percent this year. The budget is based on a 3
percent growth estimate and inflation of 3.5 percent. The
cabinet is planning to cut personal income tax to a flat 16
percent to help boost growth, and impose special industry taxes
to plug budget holes.  Hungary, the first European Union member to resort to a
bailout as the credit crisis hit in 2008, is trying to convince
investors it can finance its budget without  International
Monetary Fund  assistance. The economy is recovering from its
worst recession in 18 years and the IMF this week said growth
and tax revenue may miss government forecasts.  “I think a growth rate of 3 percent is ambitious but
realistic,” Matolcsy said. “This is a budget that helps us get
back on our feet.”  The forint has gained 6 percent against the euro since the
government on Sept. 8 agreed to keep next year’s deficit below 3
percent of GDP, abandoning a fight with the EU. The forint
traded at 271.28 per euro late yesterday. Five-year credit
default swaps, measuring the cost of insuring government debt
against default, fell to 293.42 from 368.695 in the period.  Job Cuts  The government will freeze the state’s nominal wage bill
next year, and cutting 25,000 to 30,000 of the 690,000 public-
sector jobs by attrition will allow for a 4 percent to 5 percent
nominal wage increase for those that stay on, he said.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  was elected in April on a
pledge to end five years of austerity. He is implementing a
three-year tax on the financial, energy, telecommunications and
retail industries, which will generate 343 billion forint of
budget revenue this year.  The cabinet is also counting on as many as 90 percent of
members of mandatory private pension funds returning their
portfolios to the state by the end of 2011, after a government
drive to convince them that their savings are safer there.
Private pension fund members have amassed a total of 2.7
trillion forint in savings, half of which are in domestic
government bonds.  Plugging Holes  The cabinet would use 540 billion forint of the returning
portfolios to plug holes in the state retirement fund, in
addition to the 360 billion forint that will come from the
redirection of next year’s social security payments from private
funds to the state, Matolcsy said.  The rest of the portfolios, to be allocated in a special
fund, would be used to cut Hungary’s debt level, which is the
highest of any eastern EU member, Matolcsy said.  “This measure would constitute a significant step back in
the pension reform process initiated in the late 1990s, which
has contributed to making Hungary’s pension system one of the
most sustainable in Europe,” the IMF said in an Oct. 25
statement.  ‘Bold but Risky’  Hungary is overestimating the effect of income-tax cuts on
growth as their impact is “highly uncertain,” Christoph
Rosenberg, head of a visiting IMF delegation, said in Budapest
on Oct. 25. The Washington-based lender estimates the economy
will grow 2.5 percent next year, compared with the government’s
3 percent projection.  “The government’s plans are bold but also risky,”
Rosenberg said before the administration unveiled its full
budget proposal. “They do address one long-standing issue,
namely the tax wedge, and they do that while attempting to stick
to fiscal targets agreed with the EU. They’re also risky because
they do raise questions on medium-term fiscal sustainability.”  Standard & Poor’s lowered the outlook on Hungary’s BBB
rating to negative in July as the government said it won’t seek
a new loan after the current bailout expired this month. A one-
step cut would reduce the grade to junk for the first time since
1992.  Moody’s Investors Service is reviewing Hungary’s Baa1
grade, which is three levels above junk. Moody’s will make a
decision in November, Frankfurt-based Moody’s analyst  Dietmar Hornung  said by phone on Oct. 25.  “The IMF’s assessment is in line with our view that fiscal
adjustment based on one-off taxes is ultimately unsustainable
and potentially negative for growth,”  Magdalena Polan , a
Goldman Sachs economist in London, said in an e-mailed note on
Oct. 26. “From the fundamental perspective, this means that the
government may find it difficult to achieve a lasting reduction
in the risk premium and long-term interest rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  