-- Vertex, Merck Drugs Help More With Faster Cure for Hepatitis C
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2010-10-30T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/vertex-merck-drugs-help-more-with-faster-cure-for-hepatitis-c.html
Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc.  and
 Merck & Co.  said their experimental drugs for hepatitis C cured
more patients than traditional treatment, and many people were
able to take a shorter, less toxic course of therapy.  Two-thirds of patients given Vertex’s telaprevir were able
to cut their treatment time in half to six months, and about 90
percent were cured, two studies funded by the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based company found. Nearly half of those given
boceprevir in studies from Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based
Merck were able to reduce their treatment times to six months to
nine months, with similar high rates of cure.  The findings presented today at the  American Association
for the Study of Liver Disease  meeting in Boston will help usher
in a new era of treatment for  hepatitis C , doctors say. The
chronic condition affects nearly 4 million Americans and 200
million people worldwide, according to the National Institutes
of Health. The companies plan to file for U.S. regulatory
approval of the drugs by the end of the year.  “The current standard of care is long and it’s not easy to
take,” said  Michael Charlton , director of the Mayo Clinic’s
liver transplant program in Rochester, Minnesota. “The appeal
of the new drugs is the shorter treatment, and you get there
quicker with telaprevir,” he said in a telephone interview.  Standard Treatment  Hepatitis C  often persists as a chronic condition that
causes nausea, weakness and exhaustion as it destroys the liver
over time. Interferon, the standard of care when paired with the
generic drug ribavirin to increase potency, works by boosting
the immune system. The yearlong treatment causes aches and pains
similar to the flu that may last the entire year of treatment
and cures about half of those who can tolerate it.  Roche Holding AG  of Basel, Switzerland, sells a version of
interferon under the brand name Pegasys, while Merck sells a
form called PegIntron.  Telaprevir will capture about three-fourths of the demand
for the new medicines, said  Howard Liang , an analyst at Leerink
Swann & Co. in Boston, in a telephone interview. The drug, which
Vertex is developing with New Brunswick, New Jersey-based
 Johnson & Johnson , will generate about $2.6 billion annually by
2013, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  