-- Western Australia Rejects Tax Changes, Barnett Tells Australian
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-10-30T01:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-30/western-australia-rejects-changes-to-mining-tax-barnett-tells-australian.html
Western Australia will never accept
the modified mining tax Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  agreed with
the nation’s biggest miners, the state’s Liberal Premier  Colin Barnett  told the Australian newspaper in an interview.  “What we’ve seen in the last year or so is that Western
Australia almost feels under siege,” Barnett said. “I don’t
think that much of the rest of Australia, including the federal
bureaucracy, understands this state or what’s happening here.”  The 30 percent tax on the profit of core and iron ore mines
will result in BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining
company, Rio Tinto Group, the third biggest, and other producers
paying an extra A$10.5 billion ($10.3 billion) tax in the first
two years, the government estimates.  Western Australia is the world’s largest export region for
iron ore, and the location for BHP and Rio’s ore mines in
Australia. About A$7 billion of estimated tax revenue is
expected to come from the state.  Companies are now considering walking away from the accord
Australia’s biggest miners agreed with Gillard in July after the
government said last month that future increases in state mining
royalties wouldn’t be offset by cuts to the federal levy.  Barnett said Western Australia will never surrender power
over royalties to the federal government. “The only people who
can reach agreement on royalties are state governments,” he
told the Australian. “Julia Gillard cannot deliver on any
commitment for state royalties not to increase.”  The state has refused to give up a third of its sales tax
that the federal government’s health-care overhaul plan calls
for. Health Minister  Nicola Roxon  said the changes will proceed
without the backing of Western Australia, the Australian
reported Oct. 25.  The A$356 million Western Australia would forfeit over four
years by not cooperating accounts for the cost of running the
state’s health system for five days, Barnett said in the
interview.  Gillard’s federal Labor government hadn’t acted on proposed
compromises on the issues and recent talks with the prime
minister didn’t amount to any “meaningful discussions,” he
said, according to today’s report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  