-- EU opens antitrust case against Qualcomm
-- By  Dale Hudson  and  William Schomberg
-- Mon Oct 1, 2007 12:10pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/10/01/businesspro-eu-qualcomm-dc-idUSL0154696320071001

 

 BRUSSELS  (Reuters) - The European Commission has launched 
formal antitrust proceedings against U.S. chip maker Qualcomm 
( QCOM.O ) after mobile phone manufacturers complained it charged 
far too much for vital technology licenses. 

  Nokia ( NOK1V.HE ), Broadcom Corp ( BRCM.O ), NEC Corp 
( 6701.T ), Texas Instruments Inc TXN.N, Matsushita Electric 
Industrial Co Ltd ( 6752.T ) and Ericsson ( ERICb.ST ) said in 2005 
the licenses for Qualcomm's third-generation technology -- an 
essential component for high-speed phones -- were too 
expensive.  The Commission said on Monday it would conduct an in-depth 
investigation as a matter of priority although it set no 
deadline. Such probes can last months or even years.  The move had long been expected, but its announcement comes 
just two weeks after the Commission won a big victory in the 
EU's top court against U.S. software giant Microsoft ( MSFT.O ).  European Commission spokesman Jonathan Todd said there was 
no link between the cases. The EU executive decided in August 
to launch the proceedings against Qualcomm but was only now 
able to make the announcement, he said.  The Commission in July charged Intel ( INTC.O ) with using 
illegal competition tactics and charged another U.S. chipmaker, 
Rambus ( RMBS.O ), in August for claiming "unreasonable 
royalties."  The Commission said its Qualcomm move did not imply it had 
conclusive proof of any infringement by the company to date.  Qualcomm stock was down 0.9 percent at $41.87 at 11:40 a.m. 
EDT. The Philadelphia semiconductor index .SOXX was up 1.1 
percent.
  FAIR TERMS?  At the heart of the Qualcomm case is the allegation by the 
phone makers that it broke an agreement to license patents on 
"fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms."  Qualcomm President Steve Altman welcomed the "continuation 
of our dialogue with the Commission in order to demonstrate 
that the complaints are without merit and are motivated by 
commercial considerations of the entrenched complainants."  In a statement, he accused the mobile phone makers of 
trying "to stifle the competition that Qualcomm brings to the 
market."  The Commission may eventually scrap the probe, settle with 
Qualcomm or launch legal proceedings that could lead to a fine 
of up to 10 percent of the company's annual, global revenues.  The 2005 complaints said Qualcomm charged the same for its 
patents for new technology as it did for an older system, even 
though its patents accounted for much less of the new system.  The six phone producers issued a statement on Monday 
reiterating their allegations against Qualcomm, which they said 
was trying to exclude rival chip manufacturers from the market.  The complainants say overly high royalties could push up 
handset prices for consumers, hamper development of the 3G 
standard and lead to problems with future phone technology.  But Andrew Gilbert, head of Qualcomm Europe, said the 
development of new 3G devices had been swift and prices were 
falling, disproving the claims of the phone makers.  "All of the worst fears of our opponents have been exposed 
as complete rubbish," he told Reuters in Helsinki.  Qualcomm is embroiled in multiple legal battles including a 
Fair Trade Commission investigation in South Korea and patent 
infringement cases with Broadcom and Nokia.  (Additional reporting by  Tarmo Virki  in Helsinki and Sinead 
Carew in New York)