-- Peruvian Miners End Five-Day National Mine Strike
-- Alex Emery
-- 2007-11-09T19:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-09/peruvian-miners-end-five-day-national-mine-strike-update2-.html

          
          
             Peruvian miners suspended a five-day
national mining strike after Congress made progress on
legislation to improve pensions, profit-sharing and rights for
subcontracted workers, a union official said.  
 Unions may end the stoppage at a dozen mining companies in
the next 48 hours, Mining Federation spokesman Cirilo Yarihuaman
said. The federation will vote on Nov. 23 to strike again if the
laws aren't passed, he said.  
 ``The strike achieved some progress in speeding up
legislation,'' Yarihuaman said in a phone interview. ``We'll go
on strike again if reforms aren't completed.''  
 Strikes this year, including a five-day national walkout by
Peruvian miners in May, have cut copper output in  Peru , Chile
and  Mexico , helping to spur a 10 percent rally in the price of
the metal. Peru is the world's third-largest producer of copper,
zinc and tin, the biggest of silver and fifth-largest of gold.  
 A congressional panel yesterday passed a bill granting
miners a 10 percent share of profits, up from the current 8
percent. Pending legislation includes setting eight-hour shifts
instead of the 12 hours imposed at many mines and putting 85,000
subcontracted workers on company payrolls.  
 `Return to Normality'  
 ``This confirms the return to normality in the  mining
industry ,'' Ysaac Cruz, president of Peru's National Society of
Mining, Petroleum & Energy, said in a telephone interview.
``Congress is accelerating the necessary legislation, but most
of the issues have been settled.''  
 The stoppage in Peru affected mines owned by companies
including  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) ,  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. (FCX) ,  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  and Doe Run Resources Corp.  
 Workers also were on strike at mines run by Cia. De Minas
Buenaventura SA, tin miner  Minsur SA (MINSURI1) , Shougang Hierroperu's iron
mine and zinc producers Cia. Minera Raura SA and Cia. Minera
Santa Luisa, according to the Mining Federation.  
 Copper futures for December delivery fell 5.85 cents, or
1.8 percent, to $3.1455 a pound on the Comex division of the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . Zinc fell $50 to $2,725 a metric ton
on the London Metal Exchange. Tin rose $175 to $16,950 a ton.  
 Silver for December delivery rose 3 cents to $15.545 an
ounce on the Comex. Gold for December delivery fell $2.80 to
$834.70 an ounce.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Alex Emery  in  Lima  at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        