-- Royal Mail Group Workers Plan Two More U.K. Strikes Over Pay
-- Brian Lysaght
-- 2007-07-09T16:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-07-09/royal-mail-group-workers-plan-two-more-u-k-strikes-over-pay.html

          
          
             British postal workers will extend a
series of strikes against  Royal Mail  Group Plc, the U.K.'s state-owned postal service, with two walkouts next week in a dispute
over pay and job cuts.  
 The  Communication Workers Union  said 10,000 workers at 458
post office branches will go on strike for several hours on July
16 and July 19. That follows a 24-hour strike planned by Royal
Mail workers on July 12 and two earlier walkouts. Workers in the
group's Royal Mail unit are responsible for postal deliveries,
while Post Office workers serve customers at branches.  
 Royal Mail Group reduced residential mail service and cut
labor costs after last year's introduction of competition in
Britain's postal market. The union says the company is aiming to
cut jobs, slash pay and is refusing to negotiate.  
 ``Post Office Limited are unwilling to scrap their plans for
a pay freeze and a pay cut for 80 percent of staff,'' Andy Furey,
a national officer at the union, said in an e-mailed statement
today. If the Post Office unit doesn't negotiate over pay,
``further  strike action  will be announced,'' he said.  
 Post Office workers will strike from 2:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. on
July 16 and from 6 a.m. to noon on July 19, the union said in the
statement. As a result, post office branches may be closed.  
 Royal Mail workers will walk off their jobs for 24 hours
starting at 7 p.m. July 12. The earlier strikes were on June 29
and July 2. The Royal Mail strike may halt home delivery of mail.  
 The company is ``disappointed'' in the union's strike plan
and will use managers and non-striking workers to minimize
service disruptions, Royal Mail in a statement on its Web site.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Camilla Hall in  London  at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Lysaght in London at 
 blysaght@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Torday at 
 ptorday@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        