-- Endemol Shares Written Down to Zero by Spanish Owner Telecinco
-- B y   I s a b e l l   W i t t   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2010-10-28T15:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/-big-brother-maker-s-stock-is-written-down-to-zero-by-spanish-part-owner.html
Gestevision Telecinco SA , the
Spanish television programmer and part-owner of Endemol NV, said
it wrote down shares in the “Big Brother” producer to zero.  “What we have here is just a writedown,” Telecinco’s
Chief Financial Officer  Javier Uria  said today on a conference
call. “Everything is normal” regarding the company’s ability
to pay interest, he said.  Telecinco spent 65 million euros ($90 million) buying back
Endemol’s senior and junior loans last month, Uria said today in
the conference call. Following the buyback, 31 million euros has
been added to the share capital of Endemol, Uria said.  Telecinco, Cyrte Fund II BV, Mediaset SpA and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. bought Endemol in 2007, using 2.8 billion euros of
loans. Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs and Barclays Plc
arranged the financing, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Hilversum, Netherlands-based company’s flagship “Big
Brother”  show  films strangers living together in a house
isolated from the outside world.  Endemol’s earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization fell to 137.5 million euros in the nine months
ending September from 145 million last year, according to
Telecinco. Endemol may “restructure its debt on an
opportunistic basis,” according to an Aug. 23 report by Credit
Agricole’s Cheuvreux unit.  The company’s 750 million euro senior loans are quoted at
72.25 cents on the euro today, compared with 72 yesterday, said
a dealer, who declined to be identified because the trades are
private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Isabell Witt  in London on 
 iwitt4@bloomberg.net .
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 Fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 