-- Swiss Stocks Rise to Five-Month High; Swisscom, Temenos Gain as ABB Falls
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-28T13:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/abb-bucher-logitech-straumann-swatch-may-move-swiss-equity-preview.html
Swiss stocks increased to a five-
month high as applications for U.S. unemployment benefits
unexpectedly fell to the lowest level since July.  Swisscom AG rose 2 percent, following telecommunications
shares higher in Europe.  Temenos Group AG  jumped 6.4 percent
after reporting license growth of 41 percent in the third
quarter. ABB Ltd. dropped even after profit beat analysts’
expectations.  The  Swiss Market Index  added 0.7 percent to 6,524.61 at
3:40 p.m. in Zurich, on course for the highest close since May
12. The gauge has gained 9.8 percent since its low this year on
July 5 on speculation policy makers in the U.S. and elsewhere
will step up efforts to stimulate economic growth through bond
purchases, a strategy known as quantitative easing. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also rose 0.7 percent today.  “Investors’ confidence is back on the rise, boosted by QE2
and a great earnings season,” said  Lars Schickentanz , chief
investment officer at Prima Sgr in Milan. “Going forward, the
assessment of QE2 is the most important issue. The feeling is
for a softening of markets in the first half of November.”  More than 66 percent of Swiss companies to have reported
earnings since Oct. 7 have topped analyst estimates for per-
share profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed Asset Purchases  The Federal Reserve has asked bond dealers and investors
for projections of central bank asset purchases over the next
six months, along with the likely effect on yields, as it seeks
to gauge the possible impact of new efforts to spur growth.  The New York Fed survey, obtained by Bloomberg News, asks
about expectations for the initial size of any new program of
debt purchases and the time over which it would be completed. It
also asks firms how often they anticipate the Fed will re-
evaluate the program, and to estimate its ultimate size.  A report today showed  applications  for U.S. unemployment
benefits unexpectedly fell last week to the lowest level in
three months, a signal the labor market may be starting to mend.
Initial jobless claims decreased by 21,000 to 434,000 in the
week ended Oct. 23, the lowest since early July when fewer auto
plants than normal closed for retooling, according to Labor
Department figures.  Swisscom gained 2 percent to 410.4 Swiss francs.
Telecommunication shares rose in Europe after France Telecom SA,
France’s largest phone company, posted profit that topped
analysts’ projections.  Temenos Gains  Temenos rallied 6.4 percent to 32.45 francs. The software
company reported license growth of 41 percent in the third
quarter and said it’s “well on track” to meet the full-year
 outlook .  Julius Baer Group Ltd.  rose 1.8 percent to 41.02 francs.
The 120-year-old Swiss private bank had its price estimate
lifted to 40 francs from 35 francs at UBS AG.  Credit Suisse
Group AG , Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, increased 1.8
percent to 41.85 francs.  Valiant Holding AG , which plunged 22 percent last week,
gained 1.5 percent to 154.3 francs after the Swiss regional bank
asked Switzerland’s financial markets regulator to investigate
trading in its shares. Large sell orders on Oct. 18 affected the
stock price, the company said.  ABB retreated 3.8 percent to 20.75 francs even after the
world’s largest maker of power-transmission gear reported third-
quarter net income that beat estimates. Earnings before interest
and taxes at the power products division, ABB’s largest by
sales, fell to $404 million from $477 million, reflecting a
“continued weak utility investment in power transmission
projects,” the company said.  UniCredit SpA reiterated a “sell”  rating  on ABB, saying
in a note that “clean Ebit missed our forecast by 3 percent
with continued weakness in Power Products.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 