-- ABB Third-Quarter Profit Exceeds Estimates as Demand Rebounds
-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 2010-10-28T09:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/abb-third-quarter-profit-falls-less-than-estimated-says-sales-to-increase.html
ABB Ltd. , the world’s largest maker
of power-transmission gear, reported third-quarter profit that
beat estimates and said increased spending by customers on
industrial equipment will support earnings and sales into 2011.  Net income fell to $774 million from about $1 billion a
year earlier, Zurich-based ABB said in a  statement  today.
Revenue was unchanged at $7.9 billion. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg predicted profit of $652.5 million on sales of $7.81
billion. Orders rose 18 percent, ABB said.  Chief Executive Officer  Joe Hogan , a former General
Electric Co. executive, is close to completing a $3 billion
savings plan as he starts putting ABB’s more than  $7 billion  in
cash to work on purchases. In May, Hogan paid more than $1
billion for software maker Ventyx, and ABB was later trumped by
Emerson Electric Co. in its  pursuit  of Chloride Group Plc.  “Assuming a continuation of the current economic recovery
in most regions, the company is confident that its short- and
mid-cycle businesses will continue to support both top- and
bottom-line growth over the remainder of the year and into the
beginning of 2011,” ABB said in the release.  ABB declined 0.34 Swiss francs, or 1.6 percent, to 21.22
francs as of 11:16 a.m. in Zurich. Before today, ABB  shares  had
gained 8.1 percent this year, compared with a 27 percent
increase for German competitor Siemens AG, which reports
detailed earnings on Nov. 11.  Power Shortage  ABB’s  profit  in the third quarter of last year was inflated
by about $380 million in one-time gains tied to provision
adjustments. So-called base orders, which are below $15 million
in value, increased 15 percent in the quarter, while large
orders rose 32 percent in local currencies, ABB said. Large
orders represented 20 percent of the total. The order backlog at
the end of September stood at $26.6 billion.  Earnings before interest and taxes at the power products
division, ABB’s largest by sales, fell to $404 million from $477
million, reflecting a “continued weak utility investment in
power transmission projects,” ABB said. Profitability also fell
at the power systems unit, while operating profit at the
automation unit surged 69 percent.  The power-systems division won’t achieve its target for an
operating margin of 6 percent this year, in part because of
charges in the cable business, and profitability will be closer
to a 5 percent margin, Hogan and Chief Financial Officer  Michel Demare  said on a conference call with journalists.  “ABB is held back by its power business which is partly
due to its later cycle nature but also due to the increased
competitive dynamics,”  Andreas Willi , head of European Capital
Goods Research at JPMorgan Securities in London, said in a note
to investors. He rates ABB “overweight.”  Schneider, Eaton  ABB follows electrical engineering companies including
 Schneider Electric SA  and  Eaton Corp.  in the U.S. in reporting
earnings. Schneider, the world’s biggest maker of circuit
breakers, raised its full-year margin target on Oct. 20, the
same day Eaton raised its annual profit forecast.  Siemens, which competes with ABB in power-transmission
equipment, said Sept. 27 that fiscal fourth-quarter profit would
reach “very satisfactory” levels as orders for industrial
equipment rebound.  ABB said last month that its short-cycle businesses
continued a recovery, while the long-cycle infrastructure
business needs more time to rebound. Among ABB’s biggest orders
in the quarter was the company’s biggest power-transmission deal
yet, worth about $700 million, to connect three North Sea wind
farms to the German grid.  “That’s the reason why people are investing in ABB,
because they believe there will be more of this in future,”
said  Ben Uglow , an analyst at Morgan Stanley who rates ABB
“overweight.”  ABB said that the company will incur about $200 million in
costs in the fourth quarter, and that it achieved $350 million
in savings in the past three months. So far this year, ABB had
costs of about $100 million associated with its savings plan.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  