-- Abu Dhabi's Adnoc Said to Make Naphtha Sale Offer as Early as Next Week
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2010-10-28T12:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/abu-dhabi-s-adnoc-said-to-make-naphtha-sale-offer-as-early-as-next-week.html
Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. may offer
 naphtha  to buyers in Asia for delivery from January through
December as early as next week, according to two potential
bidders with direct knowledge of the situation.  The state-run producer in the United Arab Emirates capital
may offer the fuel at a cost of several dollars more than the
price for which Kuwait agreed to sell naphtha for December
through November 2011 delivery, said the potential buyers after
initial meetings with the supplier in Singapore this week. A
company official in Abu Dhabi declined to comment.  Kuwait Petroleum Corp. earlier this month sold Full-Range
naphtha at $12 a metric ton over Middle East quotes and Light
grade at a $13 premium, bidders involved in those negotiations
said Oct. 8. In both cases, people involved in the bidding asked
not to be identified because the talks are confidential.  Persian Gulf oil producers such as Abu Dhabi and Kuwait
sell most of their crude and refined products under long-term
contracts. Naphtha, used in making petrochemicals and gasoline,
is mainly sold under annual contracts negotiated at several
intervals a year.  Abu Dhabi National, also known as Adnoc, hasn’t decided on
an initial offer price, according to the traders and a company
marketing official who also asked not to be identified.
Negotiations won’t officially start until Adnoc sends
prospective buyers an offer price.  Adnoc sells three types of naphtha known as Pentane Plus,
Low Sulfur and Splitter grades. The company this year sold
naphtha under a contract for supply starting from October for
the first time. Adnoc in the past has offered term cargoes
starting from January, April and July.  The U.A.E. and Kuwait are among the 12 members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which pumps about
40 percent of the world’s crude.  In its last round of contract talks, Kuwait Petroleum made
its opening offer for naphtha for December through November 2011
supply at a premium of $15 a ton, traders said at the time. The
company supplies the fuel under one-year contracts that begin in
April, August and December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net ;
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net . 