-- Ackman Cash for Booker Brings $240 Million Aid From Wall Street
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   R i c h a r d
-- 2010-10-28T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/ackman-money-for-booker-brings-wall-street-to-newark-with-240-million-aid.html
Bill Ackman ’s first tour of Newark
ended at aspiring Mayor  Cory Booker ’s apartment in a housing
project plagued by drug dealers and rats. The hedge fund manager
still recalls a sinking feeling as graffiti-covered elevator
doors closed and they rode to the 16th floor in pitch darkness.  Now the founder of Pershing Square Capital Management LP is
leading retired hedge fund manager  Julian Robertson , Omega
Advisors Inc.’s  Leon Cooperman  and a growing list of Wall Street
investors backing Booker as he tries to revive New Jersey’s
largest  city , where one in four residents live at or below the
federal poverty level.  “This guy has the same or greater talent than the vast
majority of my peers who are working on Wall Street and making
millions of dollars,” Ackman, 44, said. “Here’s this guy
making nothing and living in a housing project, who is motivated
for all the right reasons. That’s what made him compelling.”  Booker, 41, a Rhodes Scholar and son of  International
Business Machines Corp.  executives, has raised $240 million for
parks, schools and police since taking office in 2006 by
convincing some of the wealthiest business people in the U.S.
that Newark can be a model for urban renewal.  With the support of  New Jersey ’s Republican Governor  Chris Christie , Booker, a Democrat, obtained a $100 million pledge
last month from Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg  and a $25
million promise from Ackman.  Winfrey, Spielberg  Booker’s drive to rebuild Newark, a city of 280,000 that
has yet to recover from five nights of shootings, looting and
fires during the race riots of July 1967, has drawn endorsements
from television’s  Oprah Winfrey  and Hollywood director  Steven Spielberg . Newark is the subject of a Sundance Channel
documentary series, “ Brick City .”  “There’s a star quality, a celebrity quality” to Booker,
said Newark native  Steve Adubato Jr. , a Democratic political
consultant and anchor at WNET/Channel Thirteen in New York.
“That can be a good thing for the city as long as Cory
continues to understand that the job is still on the streets.”  Booker and the city council are proceeding with a plan to
plug an $83 million deficit in part by selling off 17 city-owned
buildings to the Essex County Improvement Authority. His $605
million budget also calls for a 16 percent property-tax increase
and firing as many as 850 city workers, including 167 police and
firefighters.  ‘Venture Philanthropists’  More than 100 people and 7 television cameras showed up on
the morning of Oct. 20 as Booker took the podium at a City Hall
event to combat childhood obesity. The assembly included two
groups of children from charter schools, with boys dressed in
white shirts and ties and girls in blue jumpers.  Booker, gesturing and pacing, told the crowd that  Newark 
citizens helped win World War II and put a man on the moon, and
the city’s children needed to contribute to society and not
become “couch potatoes.”  Later, sitting in his office on the second floor of City
Hall, where a stack of books on his desk includes the Bible and
Koran, Booker described the investors who write checks to Newark
as “venture philanthropists.”  “Help me innovate in Newark,” the mayor said he tells
people as he seeks money for the city. Newark is small enough
that improvement is possible in everything from public education
to prisoner rehabilitation and infrastructure repair, he said.  Stanford to Oxford  “Bill Ackman is like me,” Booker said of the investor
known for pressuring companies to take action to raise their
stock prices. “He’s impatient. He wants to solve problems and
he wants to solve them now.”  Booker has degrees from  Stanford University  in Palo Alto,
California, and  Yale Law School  in New Haven, Connecticut. He
developed an interest in Judaism while at the U.K.’s  University
of Oxford , where he became the president of a Jewish student
organization, L’Chaim Society. He remains a practicing Baptist.  Booker met Ackman in 2001 through  Whitney Tilson,  the
founder of hedge fund T2 Partners and a board member of the
National  Alliance for Public Charter Schools .  Tilson met Booker in the 1990s when the future mayor camped
out in a tent on the grounds of a Newark housing project and
staged a hunger strike to convince city government to fight drug
dealing more aggressively.  “Whoever it was who introduced us said to me: ‘You’ve got
to meet this guy’ and that’s exactly what I said to Bill:
‘You’ve got the meet this guy,’” Tilson said.  ‘Unlimited Potential’  Tilson likens the chain of introductions Booker has had
since then to the support for a one-time senator from Illinois.  “The only other person I can think of where it has
happened on this scale was  Barack Obama ,” said Tilson. “It’s
exciting to support someone who you think has unlimited
potential.”  Ackman, who manages about $7 billion, started raising money
for Booker in 2001, hosting the aspiring mayor at his apartment
in  The Majestic , a 1929 Art Deco building in Manhattan with
views of Central Park and an elevator attendant. Ackman sold the
apartment this year for $7.1 million, public records show. The
building where Booker lived, Brick Towers, was condemned and
demolished in 2007.  Ackman told guests that while contributions to a social
program may benefit a few hundred people, electing Booker could
help every Newark resident.  Writing Checks  He backed it up with a check for $15,400 to Booker’s
campaign on Dec. 23, 2001, according to  campaign finance 
reports.  Neil Crespi , founder of New York-based equity research
firm Monness Crespi, Hardt & Co., gave $15,000 on the same day.
John Fisher, a San Francisco-based investment manager who
oversees the fortune his family built after founding retailer
 Gap Inc. , gave $1,000, according to public records.  Booker lost the 2002 election to incumbent Mayor  Sharpe James  after raising $2.5 million, campaign records show. He won
in 2006 with $7.5 million.  Lee Ainslie , the founder of hedge fund Maverick Capital
Management LLC and a former protégé of Tiger Management LLC’s
Robertson; and  D. Ian McKinnon , the managing partner of Ziff
Brothers Investments, run by the heirs to the Ziff-Davis
publishing empire, both contributed the legal maximum to
Booker’s campaign in 2006, according to public records.  Booker outspent his 2010 opponent, Clifford J. Minor, 20-
to-1, campaign records show. He kept the money flowing in non-
election years by creating organizations including  Newark Now ,
which collects private donations to provide everything from
Thanksgiving turkeys to assistance filing income tax returns.
Contributions between 2006 and 2008 totaled $7.3 million,
according to filings on Guidestar.  Green Spaces  Project GreenSpaces, which fixes and maintains the city’s
parks, drew more than $5 million from Cooperman, who manages $6
billion as chief executive officer of Omega and is chairman of
the initiative.  “He is known as a guy to be supported,” Cooperman said in
a telephone interview from his office in New York. “He’s a
young man who is doing what is right to make a city, a state,
the country a better place to live.”  Cooperman called up Booker after the former head of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management funded the renovation of a park in the
South Bronx where he grew up. “I told him ‘this is something
you should consider doing’,” Cooperman said. Project
GreenSpaces is restoring 15 ball fields in Newark, he said.  Robertson’s Hero  After three Delaware State University students were
murdered execution-style on a playground during the summer of
2007, Booker sought money for the Newark Police Foundation.
Ackman pledged $1 million, which Booker used in part to buy
police equipment, including a device that allows authorities to
track criminals by their cell phones.  Improving education has been one of Booker’s highest
priorities. Newark’s public schools have been under state
control for 15 years. Almost half the students don’t graduate.  The Newark Charter School Fund raised $18 million from
foundations set up by  Microsoft Corp.  founder  Bill Gates  and his
wife Melinda;  Doris  &  Donald Fisher , who founded Gap; the Walton
family, founders of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ; and Robertson.  Booker is “a bit of a hero to me,” Robertson said in a
telephone interview.  The Gates family, Elizabeth and Ravenel Boykin Curry III,
founders of New York-based Eagle Capital Management LLC, and the
NewSchools Venture Fund, made a combined $15 million pledge
toward matching Zuckerberg’s contribution.  ‘Not for Sale’  Bari Mattes , an aide to Booker who oversees fundraising,
declined to give a breakdown of how all the private
contributions are spent. Some of the money is used to fund city
jobs including the post of full-time philanthropy liaison.  Booker’s fundraising from wealthy individuals outside
Newark spurred criticism in 2002 from James’ supporters, who
heckled him with cries of “Newark is not for sale.”  “There will always be an element of people who want to
criticize,” said Booker.  During a walking tour on the night before the obesity
event, Booker said, a woman asked him why he was letting
outsiders privatize the school system. Booker said he told her
that wasn’t the plan. She asked why he wasn’t suspicious about
donors’ motives.  Private contributions bought the security cameras that
safeguard the woman’s street and they cleaned up the local park,
Booker said he told her. These people are investing in Newark
because “it’s a city with a special calling,” he said.  “Cory could bring in $500 million and people will still
question his commitment,” Adubato said.  Limitations  Booker’s upbringing in the suburb of Harrington Park, 20
miles from Newark, also makes him someone Wall Street financiers
can relate to, though there are limitations to the relationship
between a hedge fund manager and a politician.  Ackman recalls inviting Booker to the Turks and Caicos
Islands, south of the Bahamas, where he rents a house for a few
weeks each winter. The mayor declined.  “He would have had to pay for his accommodation and his
meals and he just couldn’t afford it,” Ackman said.  In the fall of 2007, Ackman pledged to transfer all his
personal profits from trades that benefited from a drop in the
shares and creditworthiness of bond insurance companies,
including  MBIA Inc. , to his Pershing Square Foundation. As
confidence in the companies collapsed early in the credit
crisis, Ackman made $150 million.  ‘Paid Off’  Afterward, the investment manager talked with Booker about
making a contribution to Newark. Booker told him to hold off,
that he had something in the works, Ackman said.  Booker described his plans to turn around the Newark public
schools during a presentation at Pershing Square’s offices in
September. He told attendees, including the hedge fund manager’s
wife, Karen Ackman, who is a trustee for the foundation, and
fund advisers, including Tilson and Ackman’s father Lawrence,
about the Zuckerberg gift and how he would be seeking matching
contributions.  On Sept. 23, Ackman received a call from Booker who was on
his way to Chicago with Zuckerberg. He asked Ackman for $50
million to kick off the matching campaign. Ackman agreed to $25
million. It got him a mention on the Oprah Winfrey Show.  “Cory has invested a lot of time cultivating these
relationships,” said Tilson. “And, it’s paid off for him and
it’s paid off for Newark.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Richard  in New York at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  