-- Macquarie to Keep Expanding Even After Profit Slide
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-10-29T07:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/macquarie-vows-to-keep-expanding-even-after-first-half-profit-declines-16-.html
Macquarie Group Ltd.  Chief Executive
Officer  Nicholas Moore  said investor confidence is returning
along with corporate appetite for mergers, and predicted second-
half profit may rise to the highest in three years.  “Conditions are improving as markets trend back to
normality,” Moore said in an interview in Sydney today.
“Confidence is building, people are stepping up to
investments.”  Companies have announced $321 billion of acquisitions since
Sept. 1, a 20 percent increase from the year-earlier period, and
the  MSCI World Index  has climbed 9.8 percent. Macquarie,
Australia’s biggest  investment bank , rose the most in almost
three months in Sydney trading today after reporting first-half
profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  Earnings in the 12 months ending March 2011 are on track to
match last year’s total, Moore said, after reporting first-half
net income of A$403 million ($393 million). His forecast implies
second-half income of A$647 million, which would be the highest
since March 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The outlook looks more confident,” said  Prasad Patkar ,
who helps manage about $1.8 billion at Platypus Asset Management
in Sydney, and doesn’t hold Macquarie shares.  Moore, 52, boosted Macquarie’s  workforce  by 22 percent in
the 12 months to Sept. 30 in part through acquisitions in the
U.S. and Europe, including the equity trading and research
business of Sal. Oppenheim Jr. & Cie.  Net income  in the first
half fell 16 percent, less than the median estimate by analysts
of a 24 percent decline.  Balance Sheet  Macquarie may deploy a balance sheet carrying A$2.9 billion
in excess capital in the second half to bolster returns, Moore
said on a conference call. He declined to specify where the bank
would spend, saying capital will be allocated where there is the
most demand.  “Weak market conditions have impacted activity levels in
fixed income, currencies and commodities,” he said today. “We
think we’re well placed in all these businesses just to benefit
from conditions returning to normal.”  Shares of  Macquarie  added 4.8 percent to A$36.20 at the
4:10 p.m. close, paring this year’s drop to 25 percent. New
York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has fallen 3.3 percent this
year and Credit Suisse Group AG has slipped 19 percent in Zurich.  Goldman Sachs, Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan
Stanley and Bank of America Corp. posted an average 24 percent
drop in third-quarter trading revenue, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Suisse  said Oct. 21 that third-
quarter profit slumped 74 percent, while UBS AG, Switzerland’s
biggest bank, this week reported a surprise loss at its
investment bank.  ‘More Normal’  Macquarie’s annualized return on equity, a measure of how
well the bank used reinvested earnings to generate extra profits,
fell to 7.1 percent from 9.6 percent a year earlier.  “We don’t think this is a long-term return on equity for
our group,” Moore said in the interview. “We are very
confident that when markets do come back to more normal levels,
that would lead to a more normal return on equity.”  Macquarie’s return on equity averaged 21 percent in the
past decade, according to company statements.  Moore increased the workforce by 2,775 in the year to Sept.
30. The biggest gains were in the Americas, where headcount
jumped 70 percent after Macquarie  bought  Philadelphia-based
Delaware Investments from Lincoln Financial Group for $428
million and CI Financial Corp.’s Blackmont Capital unit.  “We are conscious of the growth that’s taken place,”
Moore said on the call. “It’s all very justified.”  M&A Rankings  Macquarie workers bring in less than half the $1.15 million
average annual revenue generated by staff at global rivals
including Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank AG, UBS
analyst  Jonathan Mott  estimated in a Sept. 6 report.  Macquarie Capital, which arranges share sales and advises
on takeovers, reported a profit of A$85 million after a A$123
million loss a year earlier.  The firm is 15th among arrangers of takeovers in Australia
this year, a list led by Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty
and Bank of America Corp., according to Bloomberg data. The bank
-- which wasn’t among advisers on this week’s offer by Singapore
Exchange Ltd. to buy Australia’s main stock exchange -- hasn’t
finished a year outside the top 10 since 1999.  Macquarie’s funds unit added most to first-half profit,
earning A$335 million, boosted by a A$95 million contribution
from the reclassification of a stake in MAP Group, which invests
in airports worldwide. The bank’s fixed income, currencies and
commodities division reported a 55 percent slump in first-half
earnings to A$167 million.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  