-- Thai Central Bank Raises Economic Growth Forecast for Third Time This Year
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-10-28T08:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/thai-central-bank-raises-economic-growth-forecast-for-third-time-this-year.html
Thailand’s central bank raised its
2010 economic growth forecast for the third time this year after
the baht’s appreciation to a 13-year high failed to curb surging
exports, sustaining pressure for more interest rate increases.  Gross domestic product  may expand 7.3 percent to 8.0 percent
this year, Assistant Governor  Paiboon Kittisrikangwan  said in
Bangkok today. That compares with a July forecast for growth of
6.5 percent to 7.5 percent.  The  Bank of Thailand  last week refrained from a third
straight increase in its benchmark interest rate, citing
“uncertainties” in the global economy even as it said
borrowing costs remain “on an uptrend.” Concern that Asia’s
rebound will stoke inflation has prompted policy makers from
South Korea to India to boost rates, attracting capital flows
that have caused regional currencies to surge.  “What the central bank did was just buying time” before
raising interest rates further, said  Usara Wilaipich , a Bangkok-
based economist at Standard Chartered Plc. “The central bank
will face even more challenges next year as growth will moderate
while inflation accelerates.”  Adding to evidence that Thailand’s economic recovery is
intact, Moody’s Investors Service today raised the outlook on
the nation’s credit rating to stable from negative, citing an
improvement in government finances.  Effective Policy Response  Thailand’s government managed an “effective
countercyclical policy response” without an “outsized”
deterioration in fiscal balances, Moody’s said in a statement.
It placed a negative outlook on Thailand’s Baa1 long-term
foreign-currency rating in December 2008.  Thailand’s economy grew 9.1 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, and the baht has gained about
8 percent against the dollar since May 19, when troops broke up
anti-government protests after clashes killed at least 89 people.  “The Moody’s action reflects our strong and resilient
economic fundamentals,” Standard Chartered’s Usara said. “The
first half growth showed that we can withstand shocks both
external and internal. The political unrest may hurt sentiment,
but it doesn’t seriously affect the economy.”  The baht traded at 29.97 per dollar as of 3:19 p.m. in
Bangkok, unchanged from yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 29.76 on Oct. 13, the strongest level
since July 1997. The currency has rallied 11 percent this year,
the best performance among Asia’s most-traded currencies
excluding the yen.  Export Growth to Slow  “The forecast has taken into account the impact of the
baht’s strength and the global economic outlook,” the central
bank’s Paiboon said. “The baht strength will erode exporters’
revenue in baht terms. But we found that the economies of our
trading partners have a greater impact on exports than the
foreign exchange, so we still think exports will continue to
grow next year, though at slower pace.”  The central bank forecast exports this year will grow
between 25.5 percent and 28.5 percent, before slowing to as much
as 14 percent next year.  Thai  exports  surged 21.2 percent in September to a record
$18.07 billion, marking the 11th consecutive month of growth,
the commerce ministry said Oct. 20.  The Thai economy may grow about 7.3 percent this year,
after taking into account the damage from recent floods and the
baht’s strength, the Finance Ministry said today.  Flood Damage  Thailand’s floods have spread across half the country,
killing at least 68 people and damaging 3 percent of
agricultural land in the world’s biggest rice-exporting nation.  The central bank didn’t take the floods into account in the
current economic forecast. The Monetary Policy Committee may
discuss their effect when it meets on Dec. 1, Deputy Governor
 Atchana Waiquamdee  said yesterday.  The central bank maintained its estimate for economic
growth next year of 3 percent to 5 percent.  Inflation is expected to accelerate to as much as 3.8
percent this year, and up to 5 percent next year, Paiboon said.
Core inflation is expected at as much as 1.3 percent this year
and may rise to as much as 3 percent in 2011.  “There is a chance that core inflation will exceed our
upper target next year,” Paiboon said. Interest rates remain on
an “uptrend,” he said, adding that “the key rate is still low
and accommodative to economic growth even after two hikes.”  Political, Economic Risks  Moody’s said risks remain in Thailand’s economy, which
continues to be “heavily reliant” on external demand for its
goods  exports  and tourism receipts.  “There are also a number of potential triggers for further
political turmoil in the near to medium-term, including
forthcoming court decisions, key anniversaries of political
violence, and parliamentary elections to be held before November
2011,” Moody’s said.  The rating company also increased Thailand’s foreign
currency bond ceiling by one level to A2, with a stable outlook,
and changed the outlook for the Baa1 foreign currency deposit
ceiling to stable from negative. It also raised the ratings
outlook for eight Thai banks, including  Bangkok Bank Pcl  and
Krung Thai Bank Pcl, to stable from negative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  