-- Worst Thai Floods in Five Decades Kill 68, Destroy Crops, Threaten Growth
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-10-28T06:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/thai-floods-kill-68-destroy-rice-sugar-crops-threaten-economic-growth.html
Thailand’s most severe floods in
five decades have spread across half the country, killing at
least 68 people and damaging 3 percent of agricultural land in
the world’s biggest rice-exporting nation.  The deluge may cause as much as 20.2 billion baht ($674
million) of damage and pare economic growth in Southeast Asia’s
second-biggest economy by 0.2 percentage point this year, the
Finance Ministry said.  About 4 million rai (1.6 million acres) of agricultural
land has been affected, according to the Office of Agricultural
Economics, equivalent to 3 percent of available farmland. The
main rice crop, which accounts for about 75 percent of annual
output, may shrink 4.3 percent this year, the state agency said.  “Production of rice and cassava will likely fall,”
 Apichart Jongskul , the office’s secretary-general, said by phone
today. “Sugar cane and corn will have only minor damage.”  Cyclones and heavier-than-normal monsoon rains have deluged
parts of Southeast Asia this month, killing hundreds of people
and affecting millions more in key rice-producing regions.  Rice futures on the Chicago Board of Trade have jumped 57
percent since the end of June, when floods ravaged crops in
Pakistan and Thailand, suppliers of 43 percent of global
shipments of the grain. Rough-rice for January delivery gained
for a 13th day, adding 0.3 percent to $15.21 per 100 pounds and
extending the longest winning streak since at least 1989. The
price touched $15.22 yesterday, the highest since Jan. 6.  Rice Fields Damaged  About 4.8 percent of Thailand’s rice-growing area, or 2.8
million rai, has been affected by the floods, Apichart said.
About 600,000 rai of land was completely devastated, and the
rest partially damaged, he said. Thailand’s main rice crop is
planted over about 58 million rai of the nation’s 130 million
rai of total farmland, he said.  Production from the main harvest of unmilled grain, which
begins in late October, may fall to about 22 million metric tons,
from an earlier estimate of 23 million tons, Apichart said.  About 2.5 percent of Thailand’s sugar cane has been
partially destroyed, from a total planting area of 6.56 million
rai,  Prasert Tapaneeyangkul , secretary-general of the Office of
the Cane and Sugar Board, said by phone on Oct. 27. “Overall
damage is quite minimal,” he said.  Thailand’s floods have spread to 38 provinces, affecting at
least 3.8 million people, the Department of Disaster Prevention
and Mitigation said in a statement. Floodwaters receded in 11
provinces, leaving 27 inundated, it said. Heavy rain may cause
flash floods and landslides in 15 southern provinces before the
end of the month, the agency warned.  Eroding Economic Growth  The finance ministry today cut its forecast for economic
growth this year to 7.3 percent after evaluating the effects of
the flood and the baht’s appreciation to a 13-year-high. It
lowered the estimate yesterday to 7.4 percent from 7.6 percent.  Gross domestic product may expand 7.4 percent in the third
quarter and slow to 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter, the
ministry’s Fiscal Policy Office director, Boonchai
Charassangsomboon, told reporters today in Bangkok.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , who called the floods the
worst in 50 years, has pledged to give 5,000 baht ($167) each to
families in the worst-hit areas as part of a 2.9 billion baht
special budget. Economic ministers will meet on Nov. 1 to
discuss the effect of the disaster, Abhisit said.  The floods have become a risk factor for the economy, and
will be taken into account at the Bank of Thailand’s next
meeting on monetary policy, Bank of Thailand Deputy Governor
 Atchana Waiquamdee  said yesterday.  “We don’t know the impact yet,” Atchana said. “The crop
may be damaged, but the rising prices may partially help offset
the drop in farm income.”  Bangkok suffered only minor flooding along the Chao Phraya
river, as the city’s 77-kilometer-long flood-protection system
held, the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration said. Authorities
are looking at ways to drain water away from the capital before
a period of high tides starts on Nov. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  