-- AIA Rises on First Day in Hong Kong After City's Biggest IPO
-- B y   B e i   H u   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-10-29T20:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/aia-will-have-hong-kong-trading-debut-today-after-rising-in-gray-market-.html
AIA Group Ltd.  rallied 17 percent on
its first day of trading in Hong Kong following the biggest
initial public offering in the city’s history.  Shares of Hong Kong-based AIA, the insurer sold by  American
International Group Inc.  in a $20.5 billion IPO that was the
world’s third-largest on record, climbed to HK$23.05 at the 4
p.m. local time close. The stock was sold at HK$19.68 each in
the IPO. Hong Kong’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index  of 45 companies
ended 0.5 percent lower.  AIA, which priced the IPO at a cheaper valuation than its
publicly traded regional rivals, listed its shares after Hong
Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  climbed to a more than two-year high this
month. AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  sold a 58
percent stake in a unit that spans 15 Asian markets and was
described by one of his predecessors as a “crown jewel” to
help  repay  a $182.3 billion U.S. government bailout.  “Every institutional investor in the world, they’re looking
for high-growth, high-quality stocks and AIA is definitely
developing their business in the high-growth regions,”  Lewis Wan , chief investment officer at Pride Investments Group Ltd. in
Hong Kong, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “We’re
expecting a lot of index funds will join the game.”  Actively Traded  More than 2 billion shares of AIA  changed hands  today,
making it the most actively traded listing on the Hong Kong
stock exchange among companies whose market value exceeds HK$10
billion ($1.29 billion). The volume was six times greater than
the second-most active stock, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares traded as high as HK$23.15 and as low as
HK$21.80.  Trading in AIA shares today totaled HK$49.39 billion ($6.37
billion), a record for a new listing on its debut in Hong Kong,
the city’s stock exchange said in a  statement . AIA’s turnover is
the third-highest single day of trading for a stock since 1986,
the bourse said.  “We’re seeing two sources of demand: institutional clients
who are very much aware that because of its size it will go into
the benchmarks, so they have to buy it,”  Andrew Sullivan , a
director of institutional sales trading at OSK Securities Hong
Kong Ltd., told Bloomberg Television. “The other side is hedge
funds. For hedge funds, this has been a great opportunity to get
into a stock that’s seen as being in a good growth area.”  Top End  The insurer priced the shares at the top end of a HK$18.38
to HK$19.68 marketing range after it drew more than HK$1
trillion of demand from international institutions and Hong Kong
individuals, said two people with direct knowledge of the matter
Oct. 22.  The IPO price valued the first Asia-wide life insurer to go
public at $30.6 billion, or about 1.2 times its estimated
embedded value of $25.8 billion next year, according to a Sept.
24 report by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co ., China’s second-largest
insurer, trades at about 2.3 times embedded value and  China Life
Insurance Co. , the nation’s largest, is valued at 2.1 times,
according to a Sept. 24 report by Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch & Co. unit.  “We are looking to top up our allocations,”  Gabriel Yap ,
Singapore-based executive chairman at GCP Global Pte, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Melbourne today. “We are
quite comfortable that in terms of the valuations compared to
the key insurers in Asia, particularly the Chinese insurers like
China Life and Ping An, we are still getting quite good value.”  ‘A Miss’  The first-day closing price values AIA at HK$277.6 billion.
That is just above the $35.5 billion London-based Prudential Plc
 offered  in February to buy AIA. The deal collapsed in June when
AIG’s board rejected Prudential’s revised bid of $30.4 billion
after the British insurer’s shareholders balked at the original
price tag.  “It is a miss” for Prudential,  Robert Morse , co-founder of
Primus Financial Holdings Ltd., said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. “For Prudential, AIA has to be worth more than
it is for the public. Prudential has a terrific presence in Asia
already, so the combination would be enormously powerful.”  Taiwan regulators in August rejected Primus Financial’s
$2.15 billion bid for Nan Shan Life Insurance Co., AIG’s Taiwan
unit.  The median first-day gain among 60 companies that went
public in Hong Kong this year was 7.98 percent, according to
Bloomberg data.  Increased Sale  AIG sold 7.03 billion shares in the IPO after expanding the
number of shares it planned to sell by 20 percent. Today it
exercised an option to boost the sale by 1.05 billion more
shares, taking the IPO size to $20.5 billion and cutting its
stake to 33 percent, according to a statement.  The U.S. will receive proceeds from the IPO and sales of
AIG’s remaining stake in the insurer, meaning taxpayers stand to
benefit from a rally in AIA shares.  AIG  advanced 0.1 percent to
$42.01 today in New York Stock Exchange trading.  AIG , once the world’s biggest insurer, owes $19.2 billion
on its Fed credit line as of this week, and about $49.1 billion
to the U.S. Treasury Department. The New York-based company’s
2008 bailout swelled to $182.3 billion, a package that includes
a $60 billion Fed  credit  facility, a Treasury investment of as
much as $69.8 billion and up to $52.5 billion to buy mortgage-
linked assets owned or backed by AIG.  15 Markets  Investors bought into a company that  operates  in 15 Asian
markets with 309,000 agents, 24,500 employees and more than 23
million in-force policies, according to the IPO prospectus. It
commands the No. 1 position in six of the markets.  AIA traces its roots to 1919 when  Cornelius Vander Starr ,
an American businessman, set up a fire and marine insurance
agency in Shanghai. It was the first foreign-owned insurer to
get a license in China, according to the company’s website.  Former CEO  Maurice “Hank” Greenberg  has called the
company’s non-U.S. life insurance divisions “crown jewels”
that couldn’t be replicated by rivals.  AIG projects that  AIA  will have operating profit of at
least $2 billion for the year ending November. AIA had about
$1.78 billion in operating profit in 2009, down from $1.87
billion in 2008, according to the IPO prospectus.  “The successful IPO marks the decisive step in our path to
independence as a listed company,”  Mark Tucker , AIA CEO, said
in an e-mailed statement on Oct. 28. “We can now draw a line
under previous uncertainty about AIA’s future and move forward
with clarity and purpose.”  Townhall Meeting  Benmosche, 66, who began “aggressive” chemotherapy for
cancer last week, hired Tucker in July as chief of AIA.  Tucker built the Asia operations of Prudential over 15
years before becoming CEO of the London-based insurer through
last year. Benmosche had clashed with AIA’s former head,  Mark Wilson , over how to divest the business.  Tucker, 52, told staff at a townhall-style meeting in July
that he plans to triple the unit’s value to about $100 billion,
according to a person with knowledge of his remarks.  Hong Kong IPOs have raised $40.5 billion this year,
surpassing the record of $36.4 billion in 2006, when Beijing-
based  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and Bank of
China Ltd. went public, data compiled by Bloomberg.  ICBC raised $21.9 billion in the world’s second-largest IPO
on record.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  of Beijing sold $22.1
billion of shares in Shanghai and Hong Kong last quarter to
surpass ICBC as the biggest initial offering ever.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net ;
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 