-- Thai Debt Outlook Raised to Stable by Moody's, Citing Economic Expansion
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-10-28T04:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/thailand-s-baa1-sovereign-bond-rating-outlook-changed-to-stable-by-moody-s.html
The outlook on Thailand’s credit
rating was raised to stable from negative by Moody’s Investors
Service, citing the country’s economic recovery and improvement
in government finances.  The Thai government managed an “effective countercyclical
policy response” without an “outsized” deterioration in
fiscal balances, Moody’s said in a statement today. It placed a
negative outlook on Thailand’s Baa1 long-term foreign-currency
rating in December 2008.  “The change in the rating outlook back to stable reflects
our view that the recent improvements in economic fundamentals
adequately compensate for the political uncertainties going
forward,” Moody’s Assistant Vice President  Christian de Guzman 
said in the statement.  Thailand’s economy grew 9.1 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, and the baht has gained about
8 percent against the dollar since May 19, when troops broke up
anti-government protests after clashes killed at least 89 people.  “The Moody’s action reflects our strong and resilient
economic fundamentals,” said  Usara Wilaipich , a Bangkok-based
economist at Standard Chartered Plc. “The first half growth
showed that we can withstand shocks both external and internal.
The political unrest may hurt sentiment, but it doesn’t
seriously affect the economy.”  Bonds, Baht Gain  The baht strengthened and bonds rose after the announcement.
The baht traded at 29.95 as of 11:12 a.m. in Bangkok, compared
with 29.97 yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It touched 29.76 on Oct. 13, the strongest level since July 1997.  The currency has rallied 11 percent this year, the best
performance among Asia’s most-traded currencies excluding the
yen, as foreign investors bought $1.9 billion more Thai equities
than they sold.  The yield on the 3.625 percent debt due May 2015 fell two
basis points to 2.81 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rate jumped 19 basis points yesterday. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  The rating company also increased Thailand’s foreign
currency bond ceiling by one level to A2, with a stable outlook,
and changed the outlook for the Baa1 foreign currency deposit
ceiling to stable from negative.  The Thai economy may grow about 7.3 percent this year,
after taking into account the impact from recent floods and the
baht’s strength, the Finance Ministry said today.  Government Spending  Gross domestic product may expand 7.4 percent in the third
quarter and slow to 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter because of
the high base-effect, said Boonchai Charassangsomboon, the
ministry’s Fiscal Policy Office director. Economic growth is
expected to reach 4.5 percent in 2011, the finance ministry said.  “The government of Thailand has capably steered the
economy through a major external economic shock, and a
potentially destabilizing domestic crisis,” de Guzman said.
“Thailand’s government finances have stabilized following the
implementation of large fiscal stimulus programs at the outset
of the crisis, while its improved  external payments  position
provides an ample cushion against volatile capital flows.”  Moody’s said risks remain in the economy, which continues
to be “heavily reliant” on external demand for its goods
 exports  and tourism receipts.  “There are also a number of potential triggers for further
political turmoil in the near to medium-term, including
forthcoming court decisions, key anniversaries of political
violence, and parliamentary elections to be held before November
2011,” Moody’s said.  Thai Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva took power in
December 2008 after a court disbanded the then-ruling party for
election fraud. Abhisit’s Democrat party now faces the same fate
in two separate cases. Abhisit must call an election by the end
of next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  