-- Air China, China Eastern Profits Surge on Traffic Rebound, Stronger Yuan
-- B y   C h a n   S u e   L i n g
-- 2010-10-28T12:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/air-china-china-eastern-profits-surge-on-traffic-rebound-stronger-yuan.html
Air China Ltd. and  China Eastern
Airlines Corp. , the world’s largest and third-biggest carriers
by  market value , reported quarterly profit surges because of a
rebound in air-travel demand and a stronger yuan.  Net income  at Air China jumped more than fivefold to 5.2
billion yuan ($778 million) in the third quarter, the company
said in a stock exchange statement today. China Eastern, which
also received a boost from the Shanghai Expo, said profit surged
more than 130-fold to 3.15 billion yuan.  China Southern Airlines Co. yesterday reported a more than
10-fold profit jump after a travel rebound from last year’s
global recession that has caused the  International Air Transport
Association  to double its annual earnings forecast for Asia-
Pacific carriers. Chinese airlines have also gained from yuan
appreciation, which pares the repatriated value of dollar-
denominated debts built up from buying Boeing Co. and Airbus SAS
planes.  “There’s a greater propensity to travel both domestically
and internationally because of the economic rebound,” said  K. Ajith , an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Research Pte in Singapore.
“That’s going to filter through to the bottom line of the
Chinese carriers.”  Beijing-based Air China, part-owned by Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd., boosted sales 77 percent to 24.8 billion yuan.
China Eastern’s sales climbed 91 percent to 21.8 billion yuan.  The yuan has advanced about 2.2 percent against the dollar
since China ended a two-year peg in June.  Rising Travel  Air China, the nation’s largest international carrier, flew
12.8 million passengers in the quarter, 19 percent more than a
year earlier, based on monthly traffic data from the Beijing-
based carrier.  China Eastern, which bought neighbor Shanghai Airlines Co.
earlier this year, boosted passenger numbers 52 percent to 18.4
million, based on traffic data. More than 70 million people
visited the 2010 Shanghai World Expo, according to the official
 website  of the exhibition that opened in China’s financial hub
on May 1.  The third quarter is the “traditional peak season” for
Chinese carriers and typically accounts for about 70 percent of
annual profits,  Leo Fan  and  Nicole Yao , analysts at Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co., wrote in an Oct. 19 report. The
appreciation of the yuan has also bolstered carriers’ share
prices, the report said.  Air China fell 4 percent to HK$10.46 at the close of
trading in Hong Kong, while  China Eastern  declined 3.8 percent
to HK$4.80. Air China has gained 72 percent this year, compared
with a 73 percent increase for China Eastern. China Southern has
more than doubled.  In Shanghai, China Eastern fell 1.6 percent to 9.02 yuan.
Air China was suspended because of a shareholder meeting at
which investors approved plans to buy 39 Boeing planes and 10
Airbus models.  Market Value  Air China has a market value of $24.8 billion, compared
with China Eastern’s $12.7 billion, according to Bloomberg data.
 United Continental Holdings Inc. , the world’s largest carrier by
passenger numbers, is worth about $9.4 billion.  Air China and affiliates including Air Macau and Shenzhen
Airlines had 381 planes at the end of June, according to the
company’s interim report. China Eastern operated 338 planes,
according to its report. United Continental, formed by a merger
this month, has about 700 planes in its main fleets, according
to its  website .  Asia-Pacific carriers will likely post a $5.2 billion
profit in 2010, more than doubling a previous forecast of $2.2
billion, IATA said in September.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 