-- Taiwan Semiconductor Posts $1.5 Billion Quarterly Profit, Beating Estimate
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2010-10-28T10:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/taiwan-semiconductor-forecasts-margin-sales-exceeding-analysts-estimates.html
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. , the world’s largest contract manufacturer of chips,
forecast fourth-quarter sales and profitability that beat
analysts’ estimates as demand for electronics climbs.  Revenue will be at least NT$107 billion ($3.5 billion) in
the three months ending Dec. 31, the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based
company said today. That surpasses the NT$104.7 billion average
of 18  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. TSMC posted a 54
percent increase in third-quarter net income to NT$46.9 billion,
beating analysts’ estimate of NT$40 billion.  TSMC joins smaller rival  United Microelectronics Corp.  in
forecasting a better-than-expected outlook as demand for
electronics including smartphones improves. The company’s
spending on equipment in 2011 will rise above this year’s record
$5.9 billion budget as revenue growth exceeds an estimated 14
percent gain for the custom-chip market, TSMC said.  “There’s still considerable demand that we cannot schedule
production for,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Morris Chang  said at an investor conference in Taipei.  Gross margin , a measure of profitability that tracks sales
less the cost of goods sold, may be as much as 50 percent, TSMC
said. That surpasses the median 47.6 percent estimate of six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The current quarter’s sales and profitability would be
higher if not for an appreciation of the Taiwan dollar, Chang
said. Taiwan’s currency has gained 2.4 percent against the U.S.
dollar in the past month, according to Bloomberg data.  Currency Appreciation  The projected fourth-quarter performance is based on an
assumption that the local currency may gain more than 4 percent
against the U.S. dollar this quarter to NT$30.60, TSMC said in a
statement. Sales would be as high as NT$113 billion if not for
the exchange rate impact, Chang said.  Third-quarter sales climbed 25 percent to NT$112.3 billion,
surpassing the company’s guidance of as much as NT$111 billion.
Revenue from chips used in communication products climbed 13
percent from the prior quarter, those in consumer electronics
increased 4 percent, and PC chips dropped 7 percent, TSMC  said .  “Smartphones are so strong that it offsets concerns of
weakness in other areas,” said  Warren Lau , who rates TSMC
“sell” at Samsung Securities Co. in Hong Kong. “Industry
expectations had been that the PC area would be quite bad,
dragging the chip sector down.”  TSMC  rose 1.1 percent to NT$62.70 at the 1:30 p.m. close in
Taipei trading before the earnings announcement. The stock has
lost 2.8 percent this year, while the benchmark  Taiex  index has
climbed 2 percent.  Profit Growth  Sales and net profit will increase at least 40 percent this
year, Chang said Sept. 16. Revenue and pretax profit will rise
10 percent next year, he said at the time.  Global chip industry revenue growth will climb 5 percent in
2011, Chang said today.  TSMC’s new  businesses  of solar panels and light-emitting
diodes will begin contributing “significant revenue” from 2012,
Chang said.  Chang, 79, is boosting spending on equipment and research
to stay ahead of competition from Globalfoundries Inc. and
Samsung Electronics Co., which are also seeking to increase
their share of the contract chip-making market. Globalfoundries,
the manufacturer spun off from Advanced Micro Devices Inc.,
expects its sales to rise at least 40 percent this year, Chief
Operating Officer  Song Hwee Chia  said this month.  UMC, based in Hsinchu, posted profit yesterday that beat
estimates and predicted profitability would surpass analyst
projections because of demand for devices such as smartphones.  Smartphone shipments will climb 55.4 percent this year, 10
percent more than previously projected, to about 270 million
units, researcher IDC  said  Sept. 7.  STMicroelectronics NV, Europe’s largest semiconductor maker,
on Oct. 26 forecast fourth-quarter sales that beat analysts’
estimates, citing an order backlog and demand for chips used in
cars and consumer products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 