-- U.K. Lake District Is Potential Nuclear Waste Dump, Government Study Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-10-28T12:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/lake-district-national-park-is-potential-nuclear-waste-dump-study-finds.html
England’s largest national park has
the potential to host a nuclear waste dump, according to a study
for the government that aims to rule out possible sites.  Land under the towns of Keswick, Cockermouth and the Wast
Water lake in England’s Lake District National Park wasn’t ruled
out by the British Geological Survey  study , which was designed
to eliminate areas of western Cumbria county from the running to
host a nuclear waste depository. The document was posted today
on the website of the Department of Energy and Climate Change.  “It’s hard to imagine a more tragic legacy to Britain’s
nuclear folly than vats of lethal nuclear waste being stored
around Keswick or Scafell Pike,” said Ben Ayliffe, energy
campaigner at the environmental group Greenpeace, which opposes
nuclear power. Scafell Pike is England’s highest point, 978
meters (3,210 feet) above sea level.  The U.K. plans to have an underground storage facility for
radioactive waste open by 2040. Today’s study, which was not
based on field analysis, is part of the search for a suitable
site. The energy department said in a statement that the
screening doesn’t show where an eventual facility will be
located.  “The geological disposal facility site selection process
is based on voluntarism and partnership and these results do not
present any reason why West Cumbria cannot continue to consider
whether or not to participate in that process,” Energy Minister
 Charles Hendry  said in an e-mailed statement.  More Studies  Further studies will be used to look at more specific
geological issues as well as taking into account above-ground
criteria and the support from local people, the department said.  It will cost 64 billion pounds ($102 billion) to clean up
21 nuclear sites in the U.K., according to the Nuclear
Decommissioning Authority, which is responsible for cleaning up
the nation’s civil nuclear sites. Some of those were built in
the 1940s with few plans for how to deal with radioactive waste
once plants were past their useful life.  The U.K. is planning to allow a new generation of nuclear
power plants to be built as part of efforts to cut energy from
fossil fuels. While the government has said it won’t directly
subsidize the technology, it has pledged to remove regulatory
barriers.  Electricite de France SA  and Centrica Plc plan to
invest 20 billion pounds to build four new reactors in Britain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 