-- Takefuji's Defaulted Debt Valued at 14.75% in Japan Default Swaps Auction
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2010-10-28T06:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/takefuji-s-defaulted-debt-valued-at-14-75-in-japan-default-swaps-auction.html
Traders settling credit-default
swaps linked to  Takefuji Corp.  agreed on a 14.75 percent
recovery rate for the failed Japanese consumer lender’s debt.  The price, the result of bidding at auction by 15 dealers
including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Barclays Plc, means
sellers of swaps on Takefuji would pay 85.25 percent of face
value to settle the contracts, according to a  statement  posted
on creditfixings.com today.  “This is lower than expected just after the bankruptcy,”
said  Junichi Shimizu , a credit analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in
Tokyo. “Some said the recovery rate would be 20 percent, but
they became bearish as they saw the complexity of claims for
overpaid interest.”  Takefuji, founded in 1966, became the biggest casualty of a
four-year crackdown on coercive lending to individuals when it
filed for bankruptcy protection on Sept. 28, listing 433.6
billion yen ($5.3 billion) of liabilities. The company has
received 171.3 billion yen in claims for overcharged interest
from 113,000 customers that may swell to 1 trillion yen, Eiichi
Obata, a court-appointed lawyer, said at the time.  Takefuji’s 9.2 percent dollar notes due in April dropped to
14.75 cents on the dollar today from 16 cents yesterday,
according to BNP Paribas SA prices on Bloomberg. They traded at
69.12 cents on May 18.  Systemic Risk  Consumer lender  Aiful Corp.  won approval from creditors for
a debt restructuring plan to avoid bankruptcy in December,
triggering Japan’s first auction to settle credit-default swaps.
Takefuji’s bankruptcy, combined with loan caps enforced under
new lending rules, may increase defaults linked to consumer
finance loans and credit card advances, Moody’s Japan K.K. said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Contracts protecting a net $810.1 million of Tokyo-based
Takefuji’s debt were outstanding as of Oct. 22, according to the
Depository Trust Clearing Corp., which runs a central repository
for the credit swaps market.  Banks, hedge funds, insurance companies and other asset
managers use credit-default swaps to hedge against losses or to
speculate on the creditworthiness of companies, countries or
other borrowers. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yusuke Miyazawa  in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  