-- All Blacks Expect Another Close Encounter With Wallabies, Muliaina Says
-- B y   S t a n   J a m e s
-- 2010-10-28T04:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/all-blacks-expect-hong-kong-close-encounter-of-fourth-kind-muliaina-says.html
The All Blacks expect another close
tussle in their fourth clash with Australia this year as the
Wallabies try to post their first win against them in  11 matches ,
said  Mils Muliaina , the New Zealand full-back.  “The Australians are our neighbors and there’s always that
added pressure to be able to perform against them and get those
bragging rights,” the 89-test veteran, who has been selected on
the wing for this weekend’s match, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “The last encounter we only won by one
point and I’m sure this weekend” is going to be tight, he said.  The Oct. 30 final game of the four-match  Bledisloe Cup 
rugby contest in Hong Kong will provide the All Blacks with a
platform for an end-of-year tour of Europe and help them build
toward next year’s World Cup in New Zealand, said Muliaina.  New Zealand, whose sole World Cup title was in the
inaugural event in 1987, faces pressure at home to win rugby’s
premier tournament after starting the past three as the favorite.
The All Blacks won this year’s Tri-Nations against Australia and
South Africa and regained top spot in the  International Rugby
Board  rankings, raising concern they may again peak too early.  “For us it’s about getting this year right, then midway
through next year we can take a look at where we are as a
team,” Muliaina, 30, said. “It’s about getting in to the best
possible shape to win the World Cup -- because we haven’t done
that for a very long time.”  The Australia match is the third trans-Tasman test to be
held at a neutral venue, after the teams met in Japan last year
and in Hong Kong in 2008.  Muliaina and captain  Richie McCaw  have both played 89 tests
for the All Blacks, three fewer than former captain  Sean Fitzpatrick , who holds the record.  “I’ll keep making Richie cups of tea and bringing him
biscuits so he doesn’t drop me before I get there,” Muliaina
said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dirk Beveridge at 
 Dbeveridge1@bloomberg.net  