-- Halliburton Disputes U.S. on Cement Tests for BP Well
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2010-10-29T21:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/halliburton-knew-cement-used-in-failed-gulf-well-was-unstable-panel-finds.html
Halliburton Co.  disputed a U.S.
panel investigating  BP Plc ’s oil spill, saying the cement cited
for flaws in February was different from the mixture used to
plug the well two months later.  Conclusions by the  National Commission on the BP Deepwater
Horizon Oil Spill , released yesterday, failed to account for
changes BP ordered to the cement just before the April 20 blast,
the Houston-based company said in a statement. Halliburton rose
in New York trading, after falling 8 percent yesterday spurred
by concerns the report may subject the company to increased
liability for the spill.  Halliburton, the world’s second-largest provider of
oilfield services, has drawn less scrutiny than BP and
 Transocean Ltd. , owner of the rig that blew up, killing 11
workers and setting off the biggest U.S. oil spill. The report
may increase Halliburton’s legal risks, said  J. David Anderson ,
an oil-industry analyst with J.P. Morgan Securities LLC in New
York.  “Up to now, we didn’t see a significant liability to
Halliburton with respect to the blowout, but that may change if
the report has a widespread impact,” Anderson said in a note to
investors yesterday calling the stock “overweight” based on
the new information.  Halliburton  rose 18 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $31.86 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading after
yesterday falling the most in five months.  The company was ordered by a federal judge in New Orleans
to turn over the cement used on the Deepwater Horizon to
investigators from the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard
Investigation Board. The Oct. 27 order was made public today.  Preliminary Conclusions  The staff of the presidential commission investigating the
blowout released preliminary conclusions based on a review of
Halliburton’s documents. Halliburton conducted at least three
tests of a mixture, in February and April, showing the recipe
wasn’t stable.  “Halliburton and BP both had results in March showing that
a very similar foam slurry design to the one actually pumped at
the Macondo well would be unstable, but neither acted upon that
data,” according to the letter sent to the commissioners from
the panel’s chief counsel  Fred Bartlit  and other staff members.  Separate tests by  Chevron Corp. , using material supplied by
Houston-based Halliburton, couldn’t generate a stable mixture in
a laboratory, according to the staff’s letter. Chevron had
agreed to conduct the tests for the commission.  Halliburton Response  In a response to the commission, Halliburton said it got a
stable test result on a recipe in April using a formula agreed
upon with BP. Later, BP ordered Halliburton to add more of a
chemical used to increase the time for cement to thicken before
reaching the proper location in the well, Halliburton said. That
formula, which wasn’t subjected to a foam stability test, was
poured into the well.  “Halliburton believes that significant differences between
its internal cement tests and the commission’s test results may
be due to differences in the cement materials tested,” the
company said yesterday in a statement.  The commission  had Chevron test off-the-shelf cement and
additives, while Halliburton tested the “unique blend” of
cement and additives that existed on the rig at the time
Halliburton’s tests were conducted, the company said.  “Further comment on Chevron’s tests is premature and
should await careful study and understanding of the tests by
Halliburton and other industry experts,” according to the
statement.  Company Liabilities  The evidence that Halliburton knew its cement showed
instability before the blowout indicates multiple companies will
be liable for damages, said Mike Stag, a New Orleans
environmental lawyer suing BP, Halliburton and Transocean.  “This is one of those gotcha moments,” Stag said. “It’s
the kind of evidence you hope will show that someone absolutely
knew there was a significant problem.”  The evidence may also mean criminal fines for Halliburton
if the U.S. Justice Department reaches the same conclusions,
said  David Uhlmann , former head of the department’s
environmental crimes division.  “They don’t face the same level of fines as BP does,”
Uhlmann said. “BP will likely pay billions in criminal
penalties and billions more in civil penalties, while
Halliburton’s penalties may run into hundreds of millions, at
most $1 billion or $2 billion.”  Credit-default swaps on Halliburton surged 27.9 basis
points to 115.13 at 12:35 p.m. in New York, the most since June,
according to data provider CMA. Investors use credit-default
swaps to protect from losses on corporate debt or to speculate
on creditworthiness.  Well Design  Scott Dean , a spokesman for BP, said he couldn’t comment on
the presidential commission’s findings.  David Nicholas , a BP
spokesman in London, also declined to comment.  Halliburton has said BP’s well design, rather than the
composition of its cement, was at fault in the blowout that sank
a $365 million vessel and spewed almost 5 million barrels of
crude into the sea.  “The fact that BP and Halliburton knew this cement job
could fail only solidifies their liability and responsibility
for this disaster,” Representative  Edward Markey , chairman of
the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Energy and Environment
Subcommittee, said in a statement yesterday.  “This is like building a car when you know the brakes
could fail, but you sell the cars anyway,” said Markey, a
Massachusetts Democrat who asked BP’s new chief executive
officer,  Robert Dudley , to testify at a House hearing. Dudley
has declined to appear.  November Hearings  The national commission is headed by former U.S. Senator
 Bob Graham , a Florida Democrat, and  William Reilly , a former
chief of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The panel
will hold hearings on the preliminary findings of its
investigation in Washington Nov. 8 and Nov. 9.  Two tests Halliburton conducted in February using slightly
different slurry recipes and a different well design showed the
cement would be unstable, the  commission staff  said. While
Halliburton provided data from one of these tests to BP in
March, there’s “no indication that Halliburton highlighted to
BP the significance of the foam stability data,” the staff
said.  The company used slightly different lab protocols in a test
seven days before the blowout and once again found it was
unstable, the staff said.  April Test  A final test using a modified testing procedure showed the
cement would be stable, the staff said. It’s not certain whether
Halliburton discussed these results internally or whether any
changes were made before the blowout, and BP didn’t have the
findings before the evening of April 19, according to the
letter.  Halliburton has stated publicly that tests conducted on the
Macondo well cement before pumping it on April 19 and April 20
indicated it would be stable, according to the letter.  Halliburton probably fulfilled its contractual duty by
alerting BP that one of the tests failed, even if it withheld or
neglected to mention the two other failures, said  Jeffrey Spittel , an oil-industry analyst at Madison Williams & Co. in
Houston. The finding may show BP acted carelessly by ignoring
the bad test result the company did receive, Spittel said.  “It’s damning evidence regarding BP’s conduct,” Spittel
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “It’s ultimately up to
the operator to make the final go or no-go decision on the
cement job.”  BP Conclusions  BP’s internal investigation of the disaster reached
conclusions almost identical to yesterday’s report concerning
the instability of Halliburton’s cement. In a Sept. 8 report on
the probe, BP said tests conducted by CSI Technologies on a
similar recipe found the cement “was likely unstable.”  The BP report criticized the company’s own engineers and
managers for failing to properly test the cement after it was
poured to ensure the well had been sealed off from surrounding
oil-soaked rock.  Halliburton is the second-largest oilfield-services company
after Schlumberger Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 