-- Halliburton Drops Most in 5 Months on BP Well Report
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-28T21:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/halliburton-falls-16-after-problems-found-with-bp-well-cement.html
Halliburton Co. , the world’s second-
largest oilfield-services provider, fell the most in five months
after a government report said cement the company recommended to
seal  BP Plc ’s Gulf of Mexico well was unstable and may have
contributed to the largest U.S. offshore oil spill.  Halliburton, which reached a two-year high on Oct. 15,
plunged 8 percent, or $2.74, to close at $31.68 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading with 97.8 million shares
changing hands today, the most since March 2007.  The stock fell after the National Commission on the BP
Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill said documents provided by the
Houston-based company showed at least three tests of the cement,
in February and April, found the mixture for the doomed Macondo
well unstable. BP received data from at least one test in March,
the commission staff said in a letter today.  “Halliburton and BP both had results in March showing that
a very similar foam slurry design to the one actually pumped at
the Macondo well would be unstable, but neither acted upon that
data,” according to a letter sent to the commissioners from the
panel’s chief counsel  Fred Bartlit  and other staff members.  The national commission, headed by former U.S. Senator  Bob Graham  and  William Reilly , the one-time head of the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, will hold hearings on the
preliminary findings of its investigation on the cause of the
April 20 oil-well blowout in Washington Nov. 8 and Nov. 9.  Anadarko Slips  London-based BP, which was the biggest producer of oil and
gas last year when it beat  Exxon Mobil Corp.  for the first time,
rose 1.3 percent to $40.60 in U.S. trading.  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. , the Texas oil company that owns a 25 percent stake in
BP’s well, lost 1.3 percent to $61.77.  Credit-default swaps on Halliburton’s debt surged the most
since June. Contracts on Halliburton climbed 27.3 basis points
to 87.2, at 4:30 p.m. in New York, according to data provider
CMA. The cost to protect the company’s debt nearly tripled in
June, reaching as high as 219.4, CMA data show. Investors use
credit default swaps to protect buyers protect from losses on
corporate debt or speculate on credit worthiness.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  