-- Almost Half of Managers Say at Least One Hedge Fund Below Peak in Assets
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2010-10-28T19:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/almost-half-of-managers-say-at-least-one-hedge-fund-below-peak-in-assets.html
Almost half of managers said one or
more of their hedge funds was below the asset peak it must
return to before performance fees can be charged, as of the
first quarter, according to  Greenwich Associates .  At least one fund in 45 percent of U.S. firms and half of
those in Europe and Asia hadn’t reached their peaks from before
the financial crisis, the Stamford, Connecticut-based research
and consulting firm said today in an e-mailed report. Managers
can’t collect performance fees, usually 20 percent of profits,
for funds below their top values.  “The fact that so many funds remain under their high-water
marks after a period of historically strong market performance
demonstrates how great an impact this crisis had on hedge funds
of all sizes and strategies,”  John Feng , a Greenwich Associates
consultant, said in the report.  Almost 55 percent of U.S. hedge funds and 35 percent to 40
percent of those in Europe and Asia said they rose 20 percent or
more in the year through March as markets rebounded, said
Greenwich, which surveyed 1,800 funds. Almost 70 percent of
hedge funds delivered returns of 11 percent or more. About 90
percent reported positive performance in the period.  Hedge-fund leverage levels, or the amount they borrow
compared with the cash they invest, remained below those
employed before the financial crisis, Greenwich said. Global
hedge funds’ average leverage ratio declined to 2-to-1 in the
first quarter from 2.3-to-1 in 2007. The borrowing ratio for
fixed-income funds dropped to 1.9-to-1 from 3.4-to-1 in 2007.  Borrowing Plans  About 23 percent of U.S. funds, 30 percent of European
hedge funds and 37 percent of Asian funds expect to raise their
leverage within a year, taking on more risk in an effort to
magnify returns, according to the report.  Among hedge funds with more than $1 billion under
management, the portion of shares held by institutions declined
from a year earlier.  Market gains  lifted newer funds, which are
less popular among institutional clients, above $1 billion,
Greenwich said.  Assets from endowments and foundations fell to 12 percent
from 14 percent in 2009. Stakes owned by corporate pension funds
decreased to 8 percent from 9 percent, while shares held by
funds of hedge funds, which earn fees by picking a mix of
managers for clients, dropped to 23 percent from 26 percent.  Public pension funds were the only category whose portion
of assets rose, increasing to 9 percent from 8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  