-- Americans More Financially Secure in 2010, BofA Survey Says
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2010-10-28T15:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/americans-more-financially-secure-in-2010-bofa-survey-says.html
Americans with assets of more
than $250,000 said they’re more financially secure today
than a year ago, after a recovery in the stock market
increased confidence that the worst effects of the
recession are over, according to Bank of America Corp.  The Merrill Lynch Affluent Insights Quarterly, which
surveyed 1,000 people with investable assets of at least
$250,000 from Sept. 13 to Oct. 7, found that 41 percent said
they’re better off this year compared with the same period last
year. About 39 percent of Americans said they’re risk-averse
about investing, down from 50 percent in the previous survey.  “The headline is people are feeling better,”  Sallie Krawcheck , president of Bank of America’s Global Wealth &
Investment Management unit, told  Margaret Brennan  on Bloomberg
TV.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index  gained about 23 percent in
2009 and 6 percent this year, compared with a 38 percent drop in
2008.  “There’s a very clear split in terms of how affluent
Americans see their own personal financial fortunes and the
larger U.S. economy,”  Andy Sieg , head of retirement and
philanthropic services for Bank of America, said in an
interview. “They view their personal financial picture as being
far rosier.”  About 78 percent of those surveyed are confident their
economic circumstances will improve in 2011, the study said.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News earlier this month
projected the unemployment rate will average 9.6 percent this
year and 9.3 percent in 2011.  Women and Retirement  More women considered themselves conservative investors,
with 44 percent favoring lower-risk investments, compared with
34 percent of men, the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank
said. Six percent of women said they were aggressive investors,
compared with 17 percent of men.  “This is something that we as an industry need to think
through, particularly as investors are concerned about their
ability to save enough for retirement,” said Krawcheck on a
conference call discussing the results.  Sixty-one percent of those surveyed expect to retire later
than planned, compared with 29 percent in January. During the
past year, 20 percent of respondents used savings to meet short-
term expenses, according to the bank.  Health Care Costs  Rising health care costs remain an issue for Americans,
with 60 percent citing them as a top concern, down from 62
percent in an April survey, Merrill Lynch said. An estimated 47
percent of Americans born between 1948 and 1954 may not be able
to afford basic expenses and uninsured health-care costs through
retirement, according to the Washington-based Employee Benefit
Research Institute.  Conditions have gotten better for owners of small
businesses with 56 percent saying they saw improvements from the
previous year. “You’ll see small business owners taking on risks
as well,” Krawcheck said on BTV.  Braun Research, a marketing research firm based in
Princeton, New Jersey, conducted the survey on behalf of Merrill
Lynch Wealth Management.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Danielle Kucera  at   dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 