-- Managing U.S. Mortgages Makes Desoer Besieged at Bank of America
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   L i s a   K a s s e n a a r
-- 2010-10-28T04:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/managing-u-s-mortgages-makes-desoer-besieged-at-bank-of-america.html
Every Friday afternoon, Barbara Desoer, president of  Bank of America Corp .’s home loan unit,
sits down alone to listen to another 20 telephone recordings.  As the California sun streams into the gleaming, white-
brick former headquarters of Countrywide Financial Corp., she
absorbs tales of fury and despair, Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in its December issue.  Desoer, 57, says it’s important that she hear the voices of
some of the 100,000 people who call the bank’s mortgage service
representatives every day, many struggling to keep up with their
loans. She’s also examining her own work.  “I want to understand, are we as effective as we claim to
be?” she said in an August interview.  That question was answered, in some measure, in late
September, when Desoer slammed the brakes on her bank’s
foreclosure process after accusations that Bank of America --
along with competitors Ally Financial Inc. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. -- had been signing and submitting to judges thousands of
foreclosure affidavits without verifying whether they were
accurate.  Those documents were required to take away people’s homes.  Desoer -- who says her best quality is common sense -- on
Oct. 1 suspended foreclosures for borrowers in the 23 states
where they are processed through the courts. She later expanded
the freeze to all 50 states, then reversed course on Oct. 18,
announcing the bank would proceed with foreclosures in the 23
“judicial” states.  Toughest Job  The foreclosure controversy makes Desoer’s job, already one
of the toughest in banking, that much harder. She heads a
50,000-employee unit -- 17 percent of Bank of America’s 286,000-
person workforce -- that handles one in every five U.S.
mortgages. More than 75 percent of the loans were inherited from
Countrywide, the bank and mortgage company that former CEO
Kenneth D. Lewis bought in July 2008 for $2.5 billion.  On Oct. 15, Angelo Mozilo, Countrywide’s co-founder, agreed
to pay $67.5 million to settle a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission lawsuit alleging that he misled investors. The
penalty is the largest-ever for a senior executive of a publicly
traded company. Mozilo neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing.  Lewis asked Desoer, who had worked for Bank of America
since 1977, to handle the melding of Countrywide into Bank of
America. Helping to manage takeovers was a job she’d done before
for Lewis when he’d bought credit card giant MBNA Corp. in 2006
and  Chicago ’s LaSalle Bank NA in 2007.  CEO Candidate  Desoer’s position makes her one of the most powerful women
in finance. She was a top candidate to replace Lewis as CEO when
he resigned in December 2009; she lost out to the younger Brian Moynihan, 51.  “I was honored to be in the selection pool,” she says. “I
felt I had earned the right to be in that pool.”  From almost the moment she stepped into her job as head of
Bank of America Home Loans and Insurance, Desoer has been
besieged. Delinquencies on the Countrywide loans were already
rising fast when Lewis bought the portfolio in 2008. Two months
later, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt, the
government was forced to bail out  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ,
and credit markets seized up. The economy began to deteriorate,
the Federal Reserve cut rates sharply and home refinancings
surged.  In January 2009, Lewis bought Merrill Lynch & Co., around
the same time taking $45 billion from the Troubled Asset Relief
Program to help keep the bank afloat.  ‘Unbelievable Changes’  Desoer found herself steering into a cyclone.  “If you had said, ‘Barbara, take that flip chart and write
down the biggest, most unbelievable changes you could imagine,’
I would never have come up with a list as extreme as what came
our way,” she says. “It was a war zone.”  One of her first jobs was to oversee lawyers coping with
investigations by 11 state  attorneys general  into whether
Countrywide had misled customers with the weakest credit
histories by selling them interest-only, adjustable-rate
mortgages that became unaffordable when their rates reset.  In October 2008, the bank settled lawsuits by  California ,  Connecticut ,  Florida  and  Illinois , agreeing to cut the  interest
rates  on thousands of loans and lower the amount that borrowers
owed by $8.4 billion.  Bank of America neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing.  Delinquencies and defaults kept rising through the
recession of 2009 and into this year. Today, of the 14 million
Bank of America mortgage customers, 1.3 million are in some form
of delinquency, including 195,000 who haven’t made a payment in
more than 2 years. The troubles prompted the bank to triple its
loan workout staff to 18,000 in the 18 months ended in October.  Housing Millstone  “Nobody in the history of mortgage banking has had to deal
with what Desoer has,” says Joe Anderson, a former Countrywide
senior managing director who ran the firm’s biggest division
before leaving the company in 2006. “She’s dealing with
variables that no one ever has before.”  The foreclosure freeze was one more sign that the housing
crisis still hangs like a millstone around the neck of U.S.
banking. Homes that banks seized through foreclosure accounted
for 24 percent of all home sales in the country during the
second quarter, according to a Sept. 30  report by RealtyTrac , an
Irvine, California-based research firm.  They made up a greater share in the states hardest hit by
the housing crisis, accounting for 56 percent of purchases in  Nevada , 47 percent in  Arizona  and 43 percent in California. Some
45 percent of Bank of America’s nonperforming loans are in
California and Florida.  Shares Plunge  Investors are nervous. In the week ended on Oct. 15, Bank
of America’s stock dropped 9 percent. During that same week,
attorneys general in all 50 states said they would launch a
joint investigation of the foreclosure breakdown, and Senator
Christopher Dodd, head of the Senate Banking Committee,
announced he would hold hearings beginning on Nov. 16.  The attorneys general are organizing meetings with major
lenders to discuss foreclosure issues, Colorado Attorney General
John Suthers said Oct. 26.  Largely due to troubles in the home loan unit, Bank of
America’s stock was down 25 percent for the 12 months ended on
Oct. 27 and 76 percent over three years.  The volume of the outcry over the alleged mishandling of
foreclosures was amplified by the fact that it came just before
Nov. 2 U.S. elections.  “It’s a perfect political football because you have a
ready, available villain who you can make a bad guy, you have
victims by the thousands and you have opportunities for big
political gains,” says  Rick Sharga , senior vice president at
RealtyTrac. “The timing of this could not be worse -- in the
middle of a hot political season.”  ‘Good Processes’  Moynihan and Desoer both say that no homeowner was evicted
unfairly.  “We believe that our assessment shows the basis for past
foreclosure decisions is accurate,” Desoer says. “We have good
processes and good controls.” In early October, Desoer said the
bank was nevertheless examining documents in 102,000 foreclosure
cases.  On Oct. 18, Desoer said the bank was restarting the process
in the 23 states where evictions go through the courts because
the bank had found nothing wrong. A week later, the bank found
errors in as many as two dozen of the first several hundred
pending foreclosures that are to be resubmitted, including
misspelled names and incorrect digits in address numbers,
spokesman  Dan Frahm  says. None of the mistakes were serious
enough to forestall home seizures, he says.  $10.4 Billion Writedown  A day later, the bank reported a $7.3 billion loss for the
third quarter, aggravated by a $10.4 billion writedown in the
value of its credit card business due to stricter regulations
and a new fee on debit cards. That compared with a loss of $1
billion a year earlier. The home loan division had a net loss of
$3.95 billion in the first three quarters of this year.  The losses aren’t over. Desoer and Bank of America’s
lawyers are gearing up for demands from investors that it
repurchase tens of billions of dollars worth of loans issued by
Countrywide and packaged into securities. Investors usually have
the right to sell loans back to banks if they can prove they
were misled as to their quality.  Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, mortgage insurers and other
investors had made $12.9 billion in claims on BofA as of Sept.
30. Those demands may eventually exceed $35 billion, says
Christopher Gamaitoni, vice president at Compass Point Research
and Trading LLC in  Washington . During the five quarters ended on
Sept. 30, the bank had approved repurchase of loans with a face
value of $4.9 billion, it announced on Oct. 20.  New Bailout?  The cost of servicing troubled loans, maintaining
foreclosed property, loan buybacks and the legal costs arising
from repurchase demands may force Bank of America to seek
another government bailout, says  Christopher Whalen , managing
director at Institutional Risk Analytics, a Torrance,
California-based research firm.  “These cash-flow issues could push BofA back into the arms
of the government,” Whalen says. “No one wants to hear this, but
it’s true.”  The bank repaid the $45 billion it borrowed from TARP in
December 2009, and Desoer insists it won’t need any new bailout.  As the losses mount, so do complaints from borrowers --
some of them in Desoer’s weekly listening sessions -- who say
that Bank of America abuses the foreclosure process.  Mary Dyer says she negotiated with the bank for more than
two years in an effort to block foreclosure on her family’s home
in Virginia Beach, Virginia. She had paid $348,000 for the house
in 2005. By 2008, the value was less than that of the mortgage.  No Short-Sale  Dyer, a homemaker, and her husband, a Department of Defense
employee, struggled to keep up with their $2,200 monthly
payments, emptying their government thrift savings plan in the
process.  The Dyers say they got four “short-sale” offers, in which
the buyer would have acquired the home for less than the
$300,000 balance on their mortgage. In August 2009, the house
was sold at auction for $252,000 -- though the Dyers had
presented the bank with short-sale offers exceeding $280,000,
says Karen Halpin, an agent with William E. Wood & Associates in
Virginia Beach, who represented the Dyers.  “Bank of America should not be allowed to get away with
this,” Dyer says. “My credit has been destroyed; we’ve lost
retirement savings; my home was foreclosed.”  Screwed Up Systems  Halpin says inadequate communication is the biggest
frustration.  “People in different departments don’t talk to each other,”
she says. “Their systems are so screwed up, and they can’t
handle what they are doing.”  Bank of America declined to comment specifically on the
Dyer case. Short sales are often complicated because borrowers
need to demonstrate hardship to qualify, while changes in real-
estate prices and high volumes of cases can cause frustration
for some customers, spokesman Dan Frahm says.  Juggling the demands of angry customers and investors was
not part of  Barbara Desoer ’s career plan when she graduated from
 Mount Holyoke College  in South Hadley,  Massachusetts , with a
degree in mathematics in 1974. Her goal was to become an
actuary, and she went to work for Pacific Insurance Co. in
California. She helped underwrite products for Fairmont Hotels
and other mid-size companies.  “I loved the business, but I was dealing with the agent and
never got to meet the management,” she says. “That big C of
character I could never assess directly.”  Berkeley Graduate  After she earned a Master of Business Administration from
the University of California, Berkeley, she joined San
Francisco-based BankAmerica. This daughter of a General Motors
Co. auto plant manager liked being a banker, she says, and the
interaction it allowed with corporate chieftains.  “You had to get to the right people and convince them you
had ideas,” she says. “You also had access to the CEOs and could
assess their character. It’s a sixth sense.”  By 1996, Desoer had risen to chief executive officer of
BankAmerica’s California retail bank. When Charlotte-based
NationsBank Corp. bought BankAmerica in 1998 -- taking its name
as its own -- CEO Hugh McColl Jr. named Desoer head of Northern
California banking and, 18 months later, head of marketing,
prompting a move to  North Carolina .  In July 2001, Lewis, the bank’s new CEO, promoted her to
head of consumer products, including credit cards and mortgages.
In 2005, she moved up to chief of operations, overseeing a $6
billion budget.  Last Woman Standing  Marc Oken, a former chief financial officer at the bank,
notes that Desoer is the only executive left from the old
BankAmerica, reflecting both her loyalty and her survivor
instinct.  “The NationsBank people were a tough crowd,” says Oken, who
worked for the bank from 1989 to 2005. “But Barbara was not
somebody you could push around. She was always organized, and
she showed outstanding judgment.”  Today, Desoer works out of the former Countrywide
headquarters, a three-story building in Calabasas, California,
with long balconies overlooking wooded walking trails populated
by wild deer. The collection of Hudson River School paintings
that Mozilo left behind -- serene scenes of rocks and hills in
upstate  New York  -- still hang throughout the building, which is
a 15-minute drive from the beaches of Malibu.  Desoer doesn’t have much time to enjoy the scenery. She
spends her days in meetings aimed at pushing back the flood of
nonperforming loans and the rising demands from investors that
the bank buy back their securitized loans.  Repurchase Claims  “We will vigorously contest such claims and defend the
interests of Bank of America shareholders,” Chief Financial
Officer Charles Noski said in a conference call with investors
discussing third-quarter earnings.  Most of the risky loans were issued by Countrywide, which
boasted an aggressive, sales-oriented style that Desoer has
abandoned, says David Lykken, whose Austin, Texas-based firm
worked as a consultant to Countrywide for more than a decade.  “The Countrywide culture was to beat Wall Street, to go
after every competitor, and if there wasn’t an enemy, then you
would create one,” Lykken says. “It was fun in a dysfunctional
way. Barbara is now telling her people that they’ve got all the
risk they want and they have all the market share they want.
They don’t want to grow the business.”  Desoer says it’s “absolutely untrue” that she isn’t
interested in growth. She says the bank has increased the number
of “jumbo” mortgages it issues -- loans that exceed the limit of
$417,000 on most loans set by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  A Goal Unmet  More broadly, Desoer says her priority is to ensure that
her home loan unit lives up to Moynihan’s oft-repeated goal of
becoming the most trusted brand in financial services.  It’s not working yet. In August, researcher JD Power &
Associates  ranked  banks according to the customer service
provided by their mortgage units. Bank of America was No. 15 out
of 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ; Lisa Kassenaar in New York at 
   lkassenaar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill in New York at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 