-- Anglo Irish Creditors `Gambling' on Improved Debt-Swap Offer
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2010-10-28T13:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/anglo-irish-creditor-group-plans-to-decline-subordinated-debt-swap-offer.html
Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  bondholders
plan to block a proposed debt exchange that imposes losses of
more than 1.3 billion euros ($1.8 billion) as they seek to force
the nationalized lender to improve the offer.  Creditors holding a 690 million-euro “blocking position”
of notes will vote against the deal worth 20 percent of their
1.6 billion euros of securities, according to a statement from
Houlihan Lokey which is advising investors. The extra yield
demanded to hold Irish 10-year bonds over German debt rose by
about 20 basis points to 443 basis points today, approaching the
record 449 basis points last month.  Ireland faces a bill of more than 50 billion euros to prop
up its banks and is seeking to ensure the losses of lenders it
owns outright are shared with subordinated noteholders. Finance
Minister  Brian Lenihan  has said he will legislate to allow the
government to impose penalties on subordinated creditors while
making senior investors whole.  “Bondholders are gambling the government is willing to pay
up and doesn’t want to use the draft legislation to impose
losses,” said  Brian Barry , an analyst at Evolution Securities
Ltd. in London. Imposing losses “has a knock-on impact on other
banks, it creates uncertainty and raises the question of what
the government is willing to do in extreme situations.”  No Negotiations  Anglo Irish Chairman  Alan Dukes  said today he won’t
negotiate with subordinated bondholders who are opposing the
exchange. Dukes, a former finance minister, was speaking in
Dublin.  The government also owns Irish Nationwide Building Society,
where bondholders are also opposing enforced losses.  Ray Gordon, outside spokesman for Ireland’s National
Treasury Management Agency, which manages certain bank oversight
functions for the state, declined to comment. An official at the
Department of Finance also wouldn’t comment.  Opposition to the proposals is undermining confidence in the
creditworthiness of the government and the nation’s other banks.
Credit-default swaps on Irish sovereign debt jumped 21 basis
points to 465, the highest level in a month, according to data
provider CMA. Contracts on Allied Irish Banks Plc bonds rose 8.5
basis points to 629.5.  Credit-default swaps insuring 10 million euros of Anglo
Irish’s subordinated debt for five years fell to 6.98 million
euros in advance and 500,000 euros annually from 7.07 million
euros upfront, according to CMA.  Anglo Irish subordinated bonds due 2014 rose 0.71 cent to
20.8 cents on the euro, according to pricing data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Exchange Penalty  The lender has said that bondholders who don’t accept the
terms of the debt exchange will be given 1 cent per 1,000-euro
face amount.  The challenge by investors risks ending up in court,
especially if no consensus is reached and new legislation is
introduced, said  Simon Adamson , an analyst at CreditSights Inc.
in London.  “If bondholders are determined to challenge this, it could
be quite a long, drawn-out situation,” he said. “This goes
against the general thrust of regulation right now, which is all
about getting bondholders to share losses. There doesn’t seem to
be much upside, except for the lawyers.”  The exchange of the lower Tier 2 notes will generate a
capital gain of about 1.26 billion euros that the bank can use
to bolster its capital ratios, according to analysts at Barclays
Capital in London. A repurchase of more-junior so-called Tier 1
debt that was also announced this month, will generate a gain of
347 million euros, the analysts said.  The bondholder meetings to approve the exchange must have a
minimum attendance of holders of 66 percent of the notes, 75
percent of whom must agree to the changes, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co., which is managing the offer.  Martha Kavanagh, an outside spokeswoman for Anglo Irish,
said the bank was unable to comment while the exchange offer was
open.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at  