-- Anham Says Logistics Contract With U.S. Department of Defense is Final
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2010-10-28T10:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/anham-says-logistics-contract-with-u-s-department-of-defense-is-final.html
Anham  FCZO LLC said its logistics
contract with the U.S. Department of Defense is final and that
it has started to implement it with a view to fully taking over
the order by the end of this year.  “It has been final for a while,” Managing Director
Mogheith Sukhtian told reporters today in Kuwait City. “We have
a signed contract with the U.S. government.”  Dubai-based Anham said April 16 it was awarded a $2.2
billion contract by the U.S. Defense Department to provide
logistical support to U.S. troops in Iraq, Kuwait and Jordan.  Kuwait & Gulf Link Transport Co. , a cargo shipper, said
April 28 that it filed an objection to the awarding of the
contract to Anham, which it said failed to meet criteria. The
U.S. Defense Logistics Agency decided to take “corrective
measures” regarding the objection and will receive amended
offers from bidders “to take new decisions for a new
settlement,” Kuwait & Gulf Link said in July.  “The protest process is a part of the U.S. government
contracting process and it’s conducted in the normal course of
U.S government contracts,” Sukhtian said. “So we’re undergoing
the process but in the meantime, what we can say, is that the
contract is being executed. We anticipate the transition between
the incumbent and us to be completed by the end of the year,”
Sukhtian added.  The incumbent contractor,  Agility Public Warehousing Co. ,
is the Middle East’s largest storage and logistics company and
faces charges of overbilling the U.S government on a
multibillion dollar contract to supply food for troops in Kuwait
and Iraq. Agility had said it was in talks to resolve legal
cases with the U.S. Department of Justice and there was no
guarantee a settlement would be agreed.  A U.S. magistrate recommended the dismissal of an
indictment against Agility’s unit, Agility DGS Holdings Inc., in
connection with the company’s contract to feed U.S. troops in
Iraq and Kuwait, Agility said Oct. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fiona MacDonald  in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  