-- AOL Gives $25,000 Grant to Bassoonist, Photographer of Bacteria
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2010-10-28T04:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/aol-gives-25-000-grants-to-bassoonist-photographer-of-ancient-bacteria.html
A bassoon-player, a photographer of
Appalachian snake handlers and an 82-year-old painter are among
25 winners of AOL Inc.’s new $25,000 grants for creative work.  Titled “25 for 25,” the $625,000 investment is part of
AOL’s “Project on Creativity,” a rebranding campaign for the
company’s 25th anniversary. The company, which receives 14
million visitors a day on its homepage, said it’s sponsoring
artistic innovation to position itself as a destination for
original, creative content.  “We do a heck of a lot more than just connect people to
the Internet,” said  Maureen Sullivan , AOL’s senior vice
president of marketing, in a telephone interview.  More than 9,000 people applied for the grant, she said. The
judges included Whitney Museum of American Art director  Adam Weinberg , entrepreneur  Andy Spade  and AOL Chief Executive
Officer  Tim Armstrong .  Artist  Chuck Close  was tapped by AOL to photograph  Alec Baldwin ,  Claire Danes  and Segway inventor  Dean Kamen  for a new
advertising campaign.  “The reason that I collaborate with AOL is because they
agreed to do a program every year to give $25,000 to young and
emerging artists,” said Close, in an interview at the AOL-
sponsored Whitney Museum’s gala this week, which raised $2.7
million. “I agreed to photograph with them and try to help them
rebrand themselves as an arts-oriented site.”  Photographer Rachel Sussman, one of the  winners , plans to
use the money to finance her project, “ The Oldest Living Things
in the World .” She travels the globe researching and
photographing living organisms that are at least 2,000 years old.  Siberian Bacteria  “It’s mostly plants, trees or strange shrubs,” said
Sussman, 35, in a telephone interview. She recently found
100,000-year-old sea grass in Spain and 4,000-year-old olive
trees in Italy. The oldest thing she found was a 400,000 to
600,000-year-old bacterium in the permafrost in Siberia.  “I will use the money for the trips to Antarctica,
Australia and Tasmania,” said Sussman. “There are a few things
that are incredibly old there.”  Dantes Rameau, a bassoonist and executive director of
 Atlanta Music Project , said he’ll use his prize money to fund a
recently formed after-school youth orchestra and choir program
for the low-income community in Atlanta.  “We are modeled on  El Sistema , Venezuela’s orchestra
system,” Rameau, 28, said in a telephone interview. “Not many
people think of music as a tool to be successful in life. You
have to be organized. You have to persevere. You have to get
along with the team.”  Snake Handlers  New York-based artist Anthony Feyer, another recipient,
focuses on unusual aspects of North American culture in
photography and painting. His current project involves
documenting a fundamentalist sect of snake handlers that 
lives in the Appalachian region.  AOL announced the winners on its website where it will
feature their work, said Sullivan.  “We’ll find a way to amplify their work so that they can
reach a wider audience,” she said. “That’s what we bring to
the table beyond writing a $25,000 check.”  The 25 Recipients   Adital Ela: Product designer who runs a sustainable design
studio and teaches a social-environmental design program in
Israel.  Angela Riechers: Working on an idea for a documentary/boat tour
of forgotten historical places in New York.  Anthony Feyer: Documenting a fundamentalist sect of snake
handlers in the Appalachian region.  Christopher Johnson: Reports and produces for NPR and other
public radio outfits.  Coke O’Neal: Working on a project called “The Box,” taking a
28 foot-tall box sculpture to locations in New York, San Isidro,
Texas and Columbus, Ohio.  Daniel McCabe: A photojournalist and filmmaker working on a
project featuring tribal conflict in Kenya and conflict resource
issues in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Dantes Rameau: A Bassoonist who wants to contribute to social
justice through his music.  Davide Balliano: A performance, installation, and video artist
who has shown at the Tate Modern, PS1 Contemporary Art Center,
and the Watermill Center in South Hampton.  Eleonore Hendricks: Photographs everyday people and creates
cohesive books.  Evelyn Davis: A graphic designer and visual communication
professor.  Jason Polan: Creates project ideas such as potato printing and
drawing hundreds of New Yorkers for a collective book.  Jeremy Dziedzic:  Aims to start a community music event called
“output: Noise.”  Jimmy McBride: Collects scraps of fabric and thread to create
celestial-themed quilts inspired by Intergalactic Transport.  Josh Safdie: A filmmaker who focuses on the importance of detail
and highlights small moments in the height of chaos.  Julio F. Torres-Santana: An architect who developed a prototype
for a portable shelter system.  Kristen Campbell: Illustrates characters and brings them to life
through animated films.  Lauren Seiden: A visual artist working mainly in ink and
graphite drawings showing the relationship between line and
light.  Marc Horowitz: A self-described “maximalist” who comments on
popular American culture with social projects and enterprises.  Marian Pierce Hoffart: An 82-year-old retired teacher who took
up painting in 1989, and paints in the impressionist style.  Michael Duva: A photographer working on a project called Animal
Portraits, which shows animals’ similarities with humans.  Rachel Sussman: A photographer working on a project called “The
Oldest Living Things in the World.”  Sara Lamm: A filmmaker whose first film was “Dr. Bronner’s
Magic Soapbox,” a documentary about a soap-making eccentric.  Taj Forer: A photographer specializing in portrait and landscape
photography.  Tema Stauffer: A photographer whose work is represented by
Daniel Cooney Fine Art Gallery in New York.  Zach Lieberman: An innovator who uses technology to create
experiences for people in public spaces or galleries.  ( Katya Kazakina  is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
 Katya Kazakina  in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 