-- Apple’s IPad-Like MacBook Air Is Sexy Laptop: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2010-10-28T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/apple-s-ipad-like-macbook-air-is-a-sexy-laptop-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Leave it to Steve Jobs to figure out
how to charge $1,000 for a netbook.  Granted, calling the new baby MacBook Air a netbook is
probably punishable by flogging at  Apple Inc. ’s corporate HQ.
Indeed, the entire category of netbooks -- shrunken laptops that
usually weigh 2 to 3 pounds and lack such accoutrements as a DVD
drive -- is under growing pressure from, among other things, the
new wave of even lighter tablet computers spearheaded by Apple’s
own iPad.  Still, by any recognizable definition, a netbook is exactly
what the entry-level Air is. Except, of course, that those
devices are cheap, often uncomfortably cramped and underpowered,
with slow hard drives that take forever to boot and batteries
that require a tradeoff between bulk and performance. The
MacBook Air isn’t any of those things.  It is, unquestionably, the  sexiest laptop going . The wedge-
shaped case is machined aluminum; at its thinnest point, along
the front edge where it opens, it’s only 0.11 of an inch --
considerably thinner than an iPad. It comes in two sizes: the
one I’ve mostly been using, which has an 11.6-inch screen and
costs $999 with 64 gigabytes of storage or $1,199 with 128 GB;
and a 13.3-inch model with a more powerful processor that sells
for $1,299 with 128 GB, or $1,599 for 256 GB.  Big Brother  Both models come with two gigabytes of memory standard. The
smaller one weighs in at 2.3 pounds (1 kilogram); Big Brother is
2.9 pounds. There’s a spacious keyboard and generously sized
trackpad that makes it easy to use even in tight spaces, such as
on an airline tray table.  The Air blurs the line between laptop and tablet computing:
Some of its key features are borrowed directly from the  iPad .
Its secret sauce is the hard disk -- or rather, the lack of one.
With the new models, Apple has eliminated mechanical drives from
the Air line in favor of the same sort of flash-memory chips it
uses in the iPad, and the benefits ripple throughout the
experience of using the machine.  For one thing, the solid-state memory responds so quickly
that it makes the MacBook Air feel faster and more powerful than
it really is. Both Airs are powered by  Intel Corp. ’s Core 2 Duo
microprocessors, which -- while more potent than the Intel Atom
chips found in many Microsoft Windows-based netbooks -- are
still previous-generation technology.  Instant On  In addition, the flash memory speeds boot-up time: A cold
start takes less than 15 seconds -- about as close to instant-on
performance as we’re likely to see in anything this side of an
 Amazon  Kindle. (My Windows 7-powered  Toshiba  NB 305 netbook
takes two minutes, give or take.) Moreover, the combination of
solid-state memory and the Mac’s power-management features means
you aren’t as likely to turn it off in the first place, making
the experience of using it that much more iPad-like -- just lift
the lid and you’re ready to go.  Using the computer for basic tasks, including word
processing and surfing the Web over a Wi-Fi connection, I was
able to easily exceed Apple’s claims of five-hour battery life
for the smaller Air; the 13.3-inch model, which has a beefier
battery, promises seven hours of operation. Apple claims up to
30 days of standby time for both models, and while I haven’t had
the Air long enough to test that statement, my experience with
the device so far leads me to believe it.  Main Drawbacks  The principal compromises imposed by the Air are storage
and the inconvenience of adding software or watching a movie.
While flash-memory chips have come down in price, spending four
figures on a computer that doesn’t store much more than a
typical smartphone may rub you the wrong way.  The other drawback -- the absence of a DVD slot -- isn’t as
big a hindrance as you might think, and is growing less so by
the day. The MacBook Air’s emergency recovery disk, for
instance, isn’t a disk at all -- it’s a USB thumb drive. (The
Air now has two USB ports, one more than the previous model,
though not the new, high-speed 3.0 version.)  More and more video content is arriving online, via
streaming services like  Netflix  and Apple’s own iTunes Store.
Also, Apple is promising to bring the iPhone’s App Store concept
to the Mac within the next three months, which will make it
easier to download software directly onto the Air.  In the meantime, if you want to install, say,  Microsoft
Corp. ’s new  Office 2011 for Mac  from a disk, you’ll either have
to bear the hassle of configuring an optical drive on some other
nearby computer to allow the Air to borrow it, or pay $79 for
Apple’s external read-write DVD drive.  Two years ago, Apple’s Jobs dismissed the idea of making an
ultra-small Mac because “we don’t know how to make a $500
computer that’s not a piece of junk.” With its sleek looks,
swift performance,  Nvidia Corp.  graphics processor and other
premium features, the MacBook Air is most certainly not a piece
of junk. Then again, it doesn’t cost $500 either. Just don’t let
Apple catch you calling it a netbook.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Rich Jaroslovsky  in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 