-- Arizona Attorney General Seeks Changes to Home-Loan Modification Process
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-10-28T16:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/arizona-attorney-general-seeks-changes-to-home-loan-modification-process.html
A 50-state task force investigating
U.S. foreclosure practices should ask lenders to change the way
they modify home-loan provisions, Arizona Attorney General  Terry Goddard  said.  Homeowners seeking modifications have complained that they
weren’t offered revised payments, wound up with the same or
higher payments, or were foreclosed on during the process. Any
resolution of the task force investigation should address these
complaints, such as by offering principal reduction and barring
certain foreclosures, Goddard said in an interview yesterday.  “What I’m most angry about is the simultaneous
modifications and foreclosures,” he said. “We need to look for
a stipulated judgment in all 50 states, that if someone is in
modification, they can’t be foreclosed.”  The states on Oct. 13 announced a coordinated inquiry into
whether banks and loan servicers used false documents and
signatures to justify hundreds of thousands of foreclosures. The
probe came after  JPMorgan  Chase & Co. and Ally Financial Inc.’s
GMAC mortgage unit said they would stop repossessions in 23
states where courts supervise home seizures and Bank of America
Corp. froze foreclosures nationwide.  Members of the task force’s executive committee have met by
phone and “have begun the process of communicating with
servicers,” Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney
General  Tom Miller , said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The
attorneys general plan to begin face-to-face meetings with
lenders this week, Colorado Attorney General  John Suthers  said.  Wells Fargo  Goddard, a member of the executive committee, said he has
been pushing in meetings with the other attorneys general for
revisions in loan-modification procedures, pointing to an
agreement with San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co.  announced
Oct. 6 as a possible guide.  Wells Fargo agreed to pay $24 million to eight states,
including Arizona, and make more than $772 million in loan
modifications to resolve allegations that companies it acquired
deceptively marketed adjustable-rate mortgage loans.  The states claimed Wachovia Corp., which bought World
Savings Inc. and was then acquired by Wells Fargo’s home
mortgage unit in 2009, left consumers with massive debt by
failing to give proper warning of the effect “pick-a-payment”
adjustable-rate mortgages could have. The low payment options
often didn’t cover monthly interest, leading to defaults and
foreclosures, the states said.  According to the agreement, Wells Fargo admitted no
wrongdoing and never originated or marketed pick-a-payment
mortgage loans.  Loans Modified  “Once it acquired Wachovia’s portfolio of payment option
mortgage loans, Wells Fargo began efforts to modify certain
borrowers’ loans,” according to the agreement. The agreement
isn’t related to claims that lenders submitted faulty documents
to justify foreclosures.  “The Wells Fargo agreement is a great starting off
point,” Goddard said.  The agreement requires a “single point of contact,” so
that the consumer deals only with one person at the bank. It
also requires the bank to decide within 30 days whether to offer
a loan modification. There’s also an automatic appeal when a
modification is turned down, he said. The bank also has to
inform consumers immediately when it receives documents and
whether these papers are all that is required, he said.
Foreclosures aren’t permitted during the process.  “These sound like such simple things, but they haven’t
been observed,” he said. “If we do nothing else than clarify
the procedures, we will get closer to resolving this problem.”  Debt Forgiveness  The Wells Fargo agreement also includes provisions for
forgiving some of the debt. This should also be part of any 50-
state resolution, Goddard said.  “We have to have a trigger point,” where the lender would
write down the principal if it’s higher than a certain
percentage of a home’s appraised value, he said. Goddard
suggests this trigger point could be 125 percent of the value.  Changing loan-modification procedures will stabilize the
housing market nationwide, Goddard said.  “It’s far better to modify than to foreclose,” Goddard
said in an interview. “The borrower wins, the bank wins and the
community wins.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 