-- Harvard Raises $30 Million for Center to Promote Family Doctors
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 2010-10-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/harvard-raises-30-million-for-center-to-promote-family-doctors.html
Harvard University, citing a
critical U.S. need for more community doctors to treat everyday
ailments, said it raised $30 million to create a center for the
study of primary care.  The gift from a donor who asked not to be named will help
develop new educational programs as well as foster research into
more cost-effective ways to pay doctors and improve the delivery
of care, said  Jeffrey Flier , dean of Harvard Medical School in
Boston. The university will be starting a national search for a
director, and the center may be operational by the beginning of
the next academic year, he said.  The U.S. health care overhaul enacted in March helped to
spotlight the shortage of primary care doctors with its promise
to provide 32 million uninsured Americans coverage for medical
treatment. Harvard recognizes the need to transform the ways
primary doctors are paid and deliver care, and for education
programs to attract more medical graduates to the field, Flier
said.  “Unless some interesting solutions are developed, the next
five to 10 years could prove even more problematic,” Flier
said. “Harvard would like to populate the future leadership of
this changing wave of primary care academics and come up with
some of these answers.”  The center is the product of months of debate after Harvard
Medical School cut funds for a small primary care division in
July 2009 that conducted seminars and mentoring programs. The
move upset professors and students, who felt the decision gave
the impression that the school didn’t care about the area of
study, Flier said. The division’s budget was $200,000.  Harvard Protest  In response to the criticism, the dean convened a task
force to re-evaluate what action Harvard could take in primary
care, a specialty that is attracting more federal research
funding because of the U.S. health-care overhaul. The No. 1
recommendation of the task force’s yearlong effort was to create
a center to serve as a “physical and intellectual home” for
the field, Flier said.  “The gift allowed us to make this much more than just a
symbolic gesture to primary care,” he said. “We can now do
what we aspired to do.”  Underserved areas in the U.S. need more than 17,000
additional primary-care physicians to reach a “medically
appropriate” target of 1 for every 2,000 residents, according
to  data  from the Department of Health and Human Services.  Paid Less  The average annual salary offered to recruit primary care
doctors, including pediatricians, internists and family practice
physicians, ranges from $175,000 to $191,000, according to a
 2010 survey  of recruitment incentives done by Merritt Hawkins &
Associates, a research and recruiting firm in Irving, Texas. In
comparison, radiologists can make on average $417,000 a year and
orthopedic surgeons, $519,000.  As a result of low pay and long hours, the field has
attracted fewer medical graduates in recent years, said Roland
Goertz, the president of the Leawood, Kansas-based  American
Academy of Family Practitioners , representing 94,700 doctors and
medical students.  “Last year that changed I think because of the health-care
debate, and we saw a 9 percent increase in the number of
graduates pursuing family practice residencies,” Goertz said.  Goertz’s group sent a letter protesting Harvard’s decision
to shut down the division. He welcomed the university’s
announcement about the center.  “This is definitely a positive step in the right
direction,” said Goertz, a family practice doctor in Waco,
Texas. “Harvard’s recognition as an institution is very
important for primary care.”  Generate Excitement  The center, like the health care debate, should also
attract more students to the field at Harvard and nationally,
said David Gellis, a first-year resident in internal medicine
and primary care at the Harvard-affiliated  Brigham and Women’s
Hospital . Gellis helped start a petition drive last year urging
the medical school focus on primary care.  “There’s a lot of excitement among people in my position
about what’s happening in the field,” he said. “Many of us are
choosing to come to primary care explicitly because of the
opportunity to be part of the kind of change this center will
foster.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pat Wechsler  in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ; 