-- Southeast Asia Seeks Common Currency Stance Before G-20 to Protect Exports
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i t a n c e   f r o m   G i a n g   N g u y e n
-- 2010-10-28T07:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/asean-leaders-push-for-shared-common-currency-stance-ahead-of-g-20-meeting.html
Southeast Asian leaders pushed for
greater coordination on currency policies ahead of a Group of 20
summit next month to stave off a drop in exports as U.S. and
Chinese measures increase capital flows to emerging markets.  Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines urged fellow
members of the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations  today to
jointly plan a foreign-exchange stance to increase their say on
the world stage. Asean’s five biggest economies have seen their
currencies rise the most in Asia outside Japan this year.  “We have encouraged Asean to develop a common perspective
on the currency situation,” Indonesia’s Foreign Minister  Marty Natalegawa  told reporters in Hanoi. “We must ensure that there 
are no inadvertent imbalances caused by efforts by some 
countries to protect export industries by artificially 
maintaining currencies at an exceptionally low level.”  Asean will send a representative to the meeting of G-20
leaders in Seoul, where leaders will discuss a plan to avoid
“competitive devaluations” among members. Asean countries are
meeting in Vietnam’s capital this week along with China, Japan,
South Korea, India, Australia, New Zealand, the U.S. and Russia.  Coordinated actions would prove more effective than
individual policy responses, Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
spokesman Ricky Carandang told reporters. The Philippine peso
has gained 7.1 percent against the dollar, while Thailand’s baht
is up 11.1 percent and Indonesia’s rupiah 5.3 percent.  ‘Getting Complaints’  “The concern right now is that, moving forward, if
currencies like the baht and the peso continue to strengthen
export figures might slow down,” Carandang said after Aquino
met Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva . “Both countries are
getting complaints from their exporters of narrower margins and
lower revenues because of the exchange rate.”  China’s efforts to keep the yuan from appreciating and the
dollar’s fall has prompted countries such as South Korea, Brazil
and Thailand to take steps to weaken their currencies to boost
competitiveness. Some countries are considering new measures
after G-20 finance chiefs meeting in South Korea agreed Oct. 23
to refrain from weakening currencies to boost exports.  Indonesia, Asean’s largest economy and a G-20 member, wants
the 10-nation bloc to have “common ideas” on currency policy
so Asean “earns its seat” at the Seoul summit, Natalegawa
said.  Indonesia’s central bank will “guard” the rupiah at its
fundamental level and buy foreign currencies to control the
local currency’s volatility, Central Bank Governor  Darmin Nasution  said yesterday. Thailand removed a 15 percent tax
exemption for foreigners on income from domestic bonds last
month, and Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  warned on Oct. 25
that regulators are “keeping an eye” on speculative inflows.  ‘Gyrate’  Bank Negara Malaysia Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz  told
Bloomberg Television Oct. 26 she favors a gradual strengthening
of the ringgit. The Philippine central bank takes steps so that
the peso doesn’t “gyrate in a very wide range,” Governor
 Amando Tetangco  said in an e-mail yesterday.  The stronger currencies may also crimp tourism to Southeast
Asia, Asean Secretary-General  Surin Pitsuwan  told reporters
today.  Countries in the region “have to face this prospect of
uncertainty and strengthening of their currencies, which will
make them less competitive,” Surin said. “They know that they
have to make adjustments.”  Exports are equivalent to 54 percent of Asean’s collective
gross domestic product, according to the bloc’s  statistics .
China was its largest trading partner, with two-way commerce
reaching $211.31 billion in the first 9 months this year, up
43.7 percent from last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  China has kept the yuan’s rise to about 2 percent since a
June pledge to introduce more flexibility, arguing anything
other than a gradual appreciation would cause social and
economic turmoil. The U.S. Federal Reserve has weakened the
dollar by moving toward buying more assets to address
unemployment and weak inflation. 