-- Asian Stocks Gain as ANZ Bank Profit, Canon Forecast Fuel Earnings Hopes
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2010-10-28T10:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/asian-stocks-gain-as-australia-new-zealand-bank-rises-on-higher-profit.html
Asian stocks  rose for the first time
in three days, led by financial and technology companies, after
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.’s profit beat
estimates and Canon Inc. raised its earnings forecast.  ANZ Banking , Australia’s third-largest lender, climbed 2.9
percent after second-half profit surged 69 percent. Canon, the
world’s largest camera maker, gained 3.7 percent after lifting
its profit forecast by 2.1 percent.  United Microelectronics Corp. 
jumped 4.7 percent in Taipei as its profit also exceeded
estimates.  Jiangxi Copper Co.  and Zijin Mining Group Co. paced
declines in China on speculation the government will take steps
to slow inflation.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  gained 0.4 percent to 129.31 as
of 7:48 p.m. in Tokyo, snapping a two-day decline of 2.1 percent.
The gauge has surged 19 percent from this year’s low on May 25
on speculation profit growth will weather Europe’s debt crisis,
China’s steps to curb property-price gains and concern about the
pace of the U.S. economic recovery.  “Earnings are coming through strongly, further easing
concerns of a double-dip recession,” said  Nader Naeimi , a
Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which
manages about $85 billion. “While this means equities could
still head higher, the market is vulnerable to corrections.”  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index  jumped 0.8 percent, while
Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  increased 0.2 percent. China’s
 Shanghai Composite Index  lost 0.2 percent.  Central Bank Meetings  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  dropped 0.2 percent in Japan,
where the central bank said it will purchase corporate debt with
lower credit ratings than accepted before, part of its latest
attempt to support the economy by helping companies borrow. The
Bank of Japan said it will meet again on Nov. 4-5, earlier than
scheduled.  Futures on the U.S.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  increased
0.2 percent. The index slid 0.3 percent yesterday as investors
speculated that the Federal Reserve’s efforts to shore up the
economy will be gradual. Fed policy makers hold a policy meeting
on Nov. 2-3 after which they may announce an asset-purchase
program that Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates could amount to
as much as $2 trillion.  Finance and information technology companies were the
 biggest contributors  to the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s advance
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ANZ Banking, the best-performing bank stock in Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index this year, climbed 2.9 percent to A$24.73. The
lender said net income in the six months ended Sept. 30 rose to
A$2.58 billion ($2.5 billion) from A$1.53 billion a year ago.
That beat the A$2.53 billion median estimate of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Canon Forecast  In Hong Kong,  Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s No. 3 lender,
gained 2.2 percent to HK$4.66 after reporting a 29 percent
increase in third-quarter net income. Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd. gained 0.3 percent to HK$4.06 after profit for the same
period climbed 30 percent. Both banks’ earnings surpassed
analyst estimates.  In Tokyo, Canon jumped 3.7 percent to 3,755 yen. The
company raised its full-year profit forecast to 245 billion yen
($3 billion), compared with an April forecast of 240 billion yen,
citing cost cuts and higher camera shipments.  Taiwan’s  United Microelectronics  increased 4.7 percent to
NT$14.45 after saying third-quarter net income climbed 43
percent to NT$8.7 billion ($283 million). That beat the NT$6.8
billion average of 11 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Macau casino operator  Sands China Ltd.  surged 8.8 percent
to HK$16.30, the biggest advance e on the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index. Parent Las Vegas Sands Corp. reported third-quarter
profit that topped analysts’ estimates as the results benefited
from “strong revenue growth” in Macau.  ‘Cautious Stance’  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has climbed 2.4 percent in
October, set for its second month of gains since Fed chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 27 more securities purchases may be
warranted if growth slows. Stocks in the MSCI gauge trade at
14.2 times estimated profit on average, compared with 14 times
for the S&P 500 and 12.2 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  “Until we see the results of November’s Federal Reserve
meeting, a cautious stance will prevail,” said  Mitsushige Akino ,
who oversees about $450 million in assets in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co.  Chinese shares declined after the People’s Bank of China
said rapid increase in global commodity prices and quantitative
easing in major economies may fuel inflation. Relatively loose
domestic credit conditions may also spur higher prices, the
central bank said in statement on its website yesterday.  Chinese Miners  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
slipped 1.6 percent to 44.46 yuan. Zijin Mining, the nation’s
largest gold producer, dropped 2.3 percent to 9.61 yuan.  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. , China’s second-largest
insurer, dropped 0.8 percent to 60.81 yuan. The company said
third-quarter net income dropped 26 percent from a year ago as
claims rose and the company set aside greater reserves.  “Corporate earnings are mixed and that’ll let the market
cool down a bit after aggressive buying,” said Li Jun, a
Shanghai-based strategist at Central China Securities Holdings
Co. The Shanghai Composite has fallen for three straight days
since closing at a six-month high.  Asahi Glass Co. , Japan’s biggest glass producer, tumbled
4.2 percent to 781 yen. The company’s operating profit in the
July-September quarter may rise 70 percent to about 53 billion
yen from a year earlier, the Nikkei English News said. That’s
less than the 61 billion yen earned in the previous quarter. The
company said it’s not the source of the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 