-- Dollar Weakens, Treasuries Advance on Fed Easing Speculation
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 2010-10-28T12:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/asian-stocks-advance-on-regional-earnings-outlook-australian-dollar-gains.html
Stocks  and U.S. index futures gained
as Exxon Mobil Corp. and Dow Chemical Co. posted higher-than-
estimated earnings while companies from Canon Inc. to Sanofi-
Aventis SA raised profit forecasts. Treasuries rose, snapping
six days of declines, and the dollar weakened.  The  MSCI World Index  climbed 0.7 percent at 8:33 a.m. in
New York, and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures rose 0.6
percent. Benchmark 10-year notes ended the longest stretch of
losses in two years and pushed the yield down from almost a one-
month high. The yield on the 10-year Irish bond increased nine
basis points to 6.98 percent, driving the  yield premium 
investors demand to hold the debt instead of German bunds to as
much as 4.52 percentage points, within two basis points of a
record. The Dollar Index  fell  for the first time in three days,
while wheat advanced for a fifth day.  Initial jobless claims unexpectedly fell last week, the
government said before tomorrow’s report on third-quarter
economic performance. About 73 percent of the companies in the
MSCI World that reported  earnings  since Oct. 7 have topped
analysts’ predictions for per-share profit. Treasuries gained as
the Federal Reserve asked bond dealers and investors for
projections of central bank asset purchases over the next six
months to gauge the possible impact of new efforts to spur
growth.  “Corporate earnings are in good shape, while a moderate
economic recovery is continuing,” said Chu Moon Sung, a fund
manager at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co. in Seoul,
which manages $28 billion.  Sanofi, Canon  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained 0.8 percent, rebounding
from yesterday’s 0.8 percent drop, while the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index rose 0.5 percent. Sanofi-Aventis rose 1.4 percent after
reporting third-quarter earnings increased 8.9 percent. Canon
gained 3.7 percent after lifting its profit forecast by 2.1
percent.  Dassault Systemes SA surged 7.9 percent after raising its
full-year revenue guidance. France Telecom SA rallied 2 percent
after profit topped forecast. Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd., Australia’s third-largest lender, climbed 2.9
percent after profit surged 69 percent.  European confidence  in the economic outlook improved more
than forecast in October, led by a jump among manufacturers,
according to the European Commission. An index of executive and
consumer sentiment in the 16 euro nations rose to 104.1,
compared with a median estimate of 103.5 in a Bloomberg survey.  The gain in U.S. futures indicated the  S&P 500  may pare
yesterday’s 0.3 percent decline. About 85 percent of the
companies in the benchmark gauge that have reported results
since Oct. 7 have beaten estimates for per-share profit,
according to  data compiled  by Bloomberg. Fifty-three companies
the S&P 500 are scheduled to report today.  Exxon, Dow  Exxon’s third-quarter net income rose to $1.44 a share from
98 cents a year earlier. Per-share profit was 5 cents more than
the average of 14 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Dow, the largest U.S. chemical company, had third-quarter
profit of 54 cents a share on an adjusted basis, compared with a
41-cent average estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Motorola Inc.
reported earnings of profit of 16 cents a share on an adjusted
basis. 3M Co., the maker of sanding belts and Scotch tape, had
third-quarter adjusted earnings of $1.53 a share, more than the
average $1.51 estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The yield on 10-year Treasuries dropped three basis points
to 2.69 percent, and the seven-year Treasury yield  slipped  four
basis points to 1.99 percent, before the government auctions $29
billion of the securities, the last of four sales this week
totaling $109 billion. The 10-year Treasury note’s string of
declines through yesterday was the longest run in two years.  Fed Meeting  Policy makers are scheduled to meet Nov. 2-3 to consider
ways to boost the economy. A report tomorrow will probably show
gross domestic product rose at a 2 percent annual pace in the
third quarter, up from a 1.7 percent rate in the previous three
months, according to the median estimate of 67 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The yield premium, or spread, between Portuguese 10-year
bonds and equivalent-maturity German debt  increased  15 basis
points to 3.44 percentage points, after reaching 3.55 percentage
points. Credit-default swaps insuring Irish debt jumped 22 basis
points to 466, the highest level since Sept. 29, according to
CMA, a data provider. Contracts on Portugal’s bonds increased
9.5 basis points to 357.5, the highest level in almost two
weeks, CMA data show.  A group of Anglo Irish Bank Corp.’s creditors will decline
to participate in a debt swap proposed by the nationalized
lender, said Houlihan Lokey, an investment bank representing the
noteholders. The Portuguese government and the main opposition
party broke off talks yesterday on budget cuts.  Peripherals  Speculation that Greece may default as the country
struggles to rein in its budget gap has heightened concern that
the so-called peripheral countries with Europe’s biggest
deficits will struggle to contain their debt burdens.  “We don’t own any peripherals, and there’s not a price
really at which we would get involved in those markets at this
point because their fundamentals are still so uncertain,” said
 Peter Geike-Cobb , a portfolio manager at Thames River Capital
U.K. Ltd., which has the equivalent $6.5 billion of assets under
management. “Our strategy would be to stay well clear of these
markets.”  The dollar weakened against all of its most-traded
counterparts, depreciating 0.4 percent to $1.3828 per euro and
falling 0.5 percent against the yen to 81.35. New Zealand’s
dollar climbed against all 16 of its most actively traded peers
after Reserve Bank Governor  Alan Bollard  said interest rates
will probably need to increase in the future.  Easing Priced In  Another round of quantitative easing is mostly priced into
currency markets and the U.S. dollar will weaken through the end
of November before recovering,  John Taylor , chairman and founder
of FX Concepts Inc., said during a Bloomberg Television
interview with  Erik Schatzker .  The kiwi snapped a two-day drop versus the greenback,
rising 0.7 percent to 75.04 U.S. cents, and advanced 0.2 percent
to 61.03 yen. South Korea’s won climbed 0.4 percent to 1123.70
per dollar after the government raised its 2010 growth forecast
and the current-account surplus increased.  Wheat futures rose 0.8 percent in Chicago, bringing the
gain to about 6 percent in five days on speculation of crop
damage because of dry weather in the U.S. Cotton led gains in
the  S&P GSCI Index  of 24 commodities, jumping 1.8 percent. Raw
sugar advanced 1.4 percent and silver futures climbed 1.1
percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose 0.4 percent,
rebounding from yesterday’s 1.6 percent retreat, the biggest
drop in six weeks. India’s  Sensitive Index  advanced 0.6 percent,
while Russia’s  Micex  stocks index added 0.7 percent. Turkey’s
 ISE National 100 index  slipped as much as 1.9 percent, following
yesterday’s 3.1 percent decline, after Citigroup Inc. downgraded
the country’s equity market to “neutral” from “overweight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Sillitoe in London at 
 psillitoe@bloomberg.net  