-- Aston Martin V12 Takes On $286,000 Bentley in Battle of Britain
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2010-10-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/aston-martin-takes-on-286-000-bentley-in-battle-of-brits-jason-h-harper.html
It’s the Battle of the Brits. In one
corner, Aston Martin’s V12 Vantage coupe, weighing in at
$177,000. In the other, the $286,000 Bentley Supersports
Convertible.  If you yearn for a new automobile which delivers the fury
of a Spitfire fighter plane coupled with quintessential British
heritage, these are your players.  The ingredients: Aston Martin took its smallest car and
stuffed in its biggest engine. The Vantage, which was previously
powered by a 420-horsepower V-8, suddenly sports the insane howl
of a V-12 with 510 horses.  Meanwhile, Bentley calls the Supersports its most extreme
car ever. Its resemblance to the stately $201,000 Continental
GTC convertible is hard to imagine, even while squinting. It has
been transformed from its usual 552-hp into a 621-hp attack dog
with a top speed of 202 mph.  Extreme British sports cars don’t come around often.  Ford
Motor Co. ’s ownership of Aston Martin and Jaguar hobbled both
companies until they were sold in 2007 and 2008, and Rolls-Royce
and Bentley have always favored luxurious land yachts over speed
machines.  The Vantage and Supersports certainly satisfy “I-can’t-
drive-55” cravings, yet their provenance is muddled. Crewe,
England-based Bentley is now part of Wolfsburg, Germany-based
 Volkswagen AG . (Bet that would’ve irked Churchill.)  German Motor  And while Aston Martin’s  headquarters  are in Gaydon,
northwest of London, it is owned by a consortium of Brits and
Kuwaiti investors and its motors are made in Cologne, Germany.  Still, British luxury cars have a different feel than their
Italian or German counterparts. Mostly it’s the sublime, hand-
worked interiors, which wear all that wood and leather like a
birthright.  The Supersports’ interior has a twist, replacing wood with
carbon-fiber accents and overstuffed seats for ones backed in
the same lightweight material. And -- stiff upper lip! -- they
operate manually. They’re nonetheless beautiful to look at and
you do get plush quilting. Weight savings like these cut about
200 pounds overall.  Four adults will fit in the Bentley even with the soft-top
down. (The Supersports Coupe, priced at around $270,000, has no
back seats.)  The Aston’s interior is cushy soft and tactile, though
befitting a serious coupe it accommodates only two. The
Bentley’s inner details are more special in the end, edging out
the Aston in that regard.  Black Grill  In either vehicle, expect lots of appreciative comments
from other motorists. My  Bentley  was outfitted in a pearlescent
red, which complimented the enormous black grill and mean,
blacked-out, 20-inch wheels.  The Vantage, like all Astons, is dazzling. My test vehicle
was all white and offset by black carbon-fiber air intakes in
the overstuffed hood. A beauty disguising the beast inside.  If you had to name the single most pleasurable element, it
would be the symphonically rich sound emitted when you downshift
and vaporize a big dose of premium gas. You can get as much
power and torque out of a V-8 motor, yet nothing equals the roar
of 12 cylinders.  While the Aston is naturally aspirated, the Bentley’s W-12
has two turbos. Either way, the mileage is crushingly poor: in
the city, the Aston gets 11 miles per gallon, the Bentley 13.  Too bad the Aston only offers an additional 90 horses over
the V8 Vantage’s smaller engine, as it adds a bunch of weight to
the front end.  Endorphin High  On the open road, it is a joy to let the Aston burst into
unchained melodies as you surge from 50 to 80. The V12 is only
available with a six-speed manual, which I kind of love. Time in
the Vantage is a constant endorphin high.  Yet on the racetrack you have to be cautious, making sure
the weight on the nose doesn’t lead you into compromising
positions -- like a tire wall while exiting a corner.  Still, at least the Vantage looks at home on the racetrack.
The Supersports convertible would just be silly there. It may be
the most agile Bentley on the market, but it still weighs nearly
as much as a moving truck.  Its raison d’etre is to rule the highways, blasting the
roadways.  Odd Paddles  It’s also got carbon-ceramic brakes the size of Texas,
which means you could screech to a stop when jackrabbits run
into your path. The Supersports isn’t available with a manual
transmission -- just a six-speed automatic which you can operate
with Bentley’s signature, oddly oversized behind-the-wheel
paddles.  A word about those supersized prices. As driven, the
Bentley came to $308,870, including goodies like the $7,180 Naim
audio system.  The Aston’s added amenities brought it up to $194,110.  But then, you shouldn’t be talking about the price, should
you? It’s just not British.  The 2011 V12 Vantage and 2011 Bentley Continental  Supersports Convertible at a Glance  Engines: 5.9-liter V-12 with 510 hp and 420 pound-feet of
torque; twin-turbo W-12 with 621 hp and 590 lb-ft of torque.  Transmissions: Six-speed manual; six-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 in 4.1 seconds; 3.9.  Gas mileage per gallon: 11 city, 17 highway; 13, 24.  Prices as tested: $194,110; $308,870.  Best features: Aston elegance; Bentley interior.  Worst features: Underpowered V-12; still pretty portly.  Target buyers: Kings and queens.  ( Jason H. Harper  writes about autos for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 