-- AstraZeneca Net Falls 27% on Generic Competition, Weak Flu Vaccine Demand
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2010-10-28T15:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/astrazeneca-third-quarter-profit-fell-on-generic-competition-legal-costs.html
AstraZeneca Plc , the U.K.’s second-
biggest drugmaker, fell the most in almost nine months in London
trading after saying fourth-quarter comparisons would be
“demanding” as generic competition cuts into profit.  Sales of cancer drugs Arimidex and Casodex, which last year
had combined revenue of $3 billion, declined 80 percent and 79
percent respectively in the U.S. during the third quarter after
generic versions entered the market, the London-based drugmaker
said today in a statement.  Generic competition for Pulmicort Respules for asthma and
Toprol-XL blood-pressure treatment also hurt sales, the company
said. Chief Financial Officer  Simon Lowth  said the company
expects “demanding comparisons” for revenue and earnings per
share during the fourth quarter. In the second half of last
year, U.S. government orders for swine-flu vaccine added $453
million to sales and boosted profit.  “The question is what’s going to happen in the fourth
quarter,” when generic competition for the Nexium ulcer pill
and Arimidex in Europe will have a bigger effect, said  Amit Roy ,
an analyst with Nomura in London, in an interview. “The company
is more cautious than the street.” Roy has a “reduce” rating
on the stock.  AstraZeneca shares closed down 106 pence, or 3.3 percent,
to 3,139.50 pence in London, the biggest drop since Feb. 3.
Before today, the stock had gained 17 percent this year
including reinvested dividends, compared with a 7 percent return
in the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index .  Net Income Drop  Third-quarter net income fell 27 percent to $1.55 billion,
compared with $2.12 billion a year earlier, hurt by higher legal
costs and waning demand for swine-flu vaccine, AstraZeneca said.
The company set aside $473 million in the quarter to resolve
product liability lawsuits that claim the Seroquel antipsychotic
medicine increases the risk of diabetes. AstraZeneca also
reported higher restructuring costs of $212 million.  Sales fell to $7.9 billion in the third quarter, compared
with a mean estimate of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg of
$7.92 billion.  Earnings excluding restructuring and other one-time costs
declined to $1.50 a share from $1.68, matching the $1.50 average
 estimate  of 24 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. AstraZeneca
narrowed its 2010 earnings forecast to $6.50 to $6.65 a share
from $6.35 to $6.65.  Sales Decline  The company is facing a decline in sales over the next four
years as patent protection is lost on two of its biggest selling
drugs, Nexium and Seroquel. AstraZeneca estimates it needs to
generate between $4 billion and $6 billion in that time to meet
its sales target range of $28 billion to $34 billion.  The drugmaker ended development of lesogaberan, an
experimental treatment for gastroesophageal reflux disease, and
took a charge of $128 million.  AstraZeneca is relying on cholesterol drug Crestor, which
generated $4.5 billion in sales last year, to fuel revenue
growth. The company won a legal victory in June when a U.S.
court upheld a patent on Crestor. Sales during the third quarter
grew 20 percent to almost $1.4 billion.  Lowth expects the company to file for market approval of
the diabetes drug dapagliflozin in the U.S. and Europe by the
end of this year. AstraZeneca is developing the drug with
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. of the U.S.  AstraZeneca still expects the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to decide on marketing approval for its anti-
blood clotting drug Brilinta by Dec. 16. The drug would compete
with Plavix from Sanofi-Aventis SA and Bristol-Myers, which had
$9.8 billion in sales last year.  Lowth said talks with the FDA on Brilinta were ongoing and
declined to comment further. The European Medicines Agency on
Sept. 24 recommended approval for selling the drug in Europe
under the name Brilique.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  