-- AstraZeneca Profit Fell on Generic Rivals, Legal Costs
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2010-10-28T07:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/astrazeneca-has-third-quarter-profit-of-1-55-billion-matching-estimates.html
     Oct. 28 (Bloomberg) -- AstraZeneca Plc , the U.K.’s second-
biggest drugmaker, said third-quarter profit fell 27 percent,
citing higher legal costs, generic competition in the U.S. for
three key medicines and no demand for swine flu vaccine.  Net income declined to $1.55 billion, compared with $2.12
billion a year earlier, the London-based drugmaker said today in
a statement. The company set aside $473 million in the quarter
to resolve product liability lawsuits over the Seroquel
antipsychotic medicine. AstraZeneca also reported higher
restructuring costs of $212 million.  Generic competition for the Arimidex cancer drug, Pulmicort
Respules for asthma and Toprol-XL blood-pressure treatment as
well as the absence of demand for flu vaccine hurt sales, the
company said. In the second half of last year, U.S. government
orders for swine-flu vaccine added $453 million to sales and
boosted profit.  "The question is what’s going to happen in the fourth
quarter," said Amit Roy, an analyst with Nomura in London, in an
interview. "The company is more cautious than the street." Roy
said generic competition for Nexium and Arimidex in Europe will
have an effect during this quarter. He has a "reduce" rating on
the stock.  Sales fell to $7.9 billion this quarter, compared with a
mean estimate of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg of $7.92
billion.  2010 Forecast  Earnings excluding restructuring and other one-time costs
declined to $1.50 a share from $1.68, matching the $1.50 a share
mean  estimate  of 24 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. AstraZeneca
narrowed its 2010 earnings forecast of between $6.35 and $6.65 a
share to $6.50 and $6.65 a share.  AstraZeneca fell 58 pence, or 1.8 percent, to 3,187.5 pence
at 8:31 p.m. in London trading. Before today, the stock had
gained 17 percent this year including reinvested dividends,
compared with a 7 percent return in the  Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceutical Index .  The company is facing a decline in sales over the next four
years as patent protection is lost on two of its biggest selling
drugs, Nexium for ulcers and Seroquel. AstraZeneca estimates it
needs to generate between $4 billion and $6 billion in that time
to meet its sales target range of $28 billion to $34 billion.  The drugmaker ended development of lesogaberan, an
experimental treatment for gastroesophageal reflux disease, and
took a charge of $128 million.  Crestor Case  AstraZeneca is relying on cholesterol drug Crestor, which
generated $4.5 billion in sales last year, to fuel revenue
growth. The company won a legal victory in June when a U.S.
court upheld a patent on Crestor.  AstraZeneca said it expects to file for market approval of
the diabetes drug dapagliflozin in the U.S. and Europe either
this year or early next year. AstraZeneca is developing the drug
with Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. of the U.S.  AstraZeneca still expects the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to decide on marketing approval for its anti-
blood clotting drug Brilinta by Dec. 16. The European Medicines
Agency recommended approval for selling the drug in Europe under
the name Brilique.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  