-- Tata Consultancy CEO Wants Visa, Trade Concerns Eased During Obama's Visit
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2010-10-28T17:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/tata-consultancy-ceo-wants-visa-trade-concerns-eased-during-obama-s-visit.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.  says
it’s banking on President  Barack Obama ’s visit to India next
week to ease concern over increased U.S. visa costs and
protectionism toward software-services companies.  A bill passed by the U.S. Senate in August increased visa
costs, Natarajan Chandrasekaran, chief executive officer of Tata
Consultancy, India’s largest software exporter, said in an
interview during the Sibos conference in Amsterdam today.  “There’s been a lot of talk about regulatory changes and
the protectionist discussions, which are very concerning for the
industry,” he said. “I hope what happens during the visit
reduces those tensions.”  The bill, passed unanimously by the Senate, would add
$2,000 to visa fees for companies with more than half of their
employees in the U.S. on such visas. The increase could cost
software-services companies based in India, such as TCS and
 Infosys Technologies Ltd. , as much as $250 million a year,  Som Mittal , president of Indian industry trade group Nasscom, said
on Aug. 6.  Technology companies such as  Wipro Ltd.  and Infosys send
skilled workers from overseas, often from India, to the U.S. to
develop software and manage projects for customers in the
country. TCS has absorbed the increased visa costs in its
business model, Chandrasekaran said, although he couldn’t say if
Mumbai-based Tata Consultancy will take measures to soften the
effect, such as hiring more U.S. workers.  ‘Strategic’ Visit  “TCS continues to hire people in different markets,” he
said. “We have two big centers in the U.S, one in Cincinnati
and one in Midland, Michigan, and we continue to hire
professionals in these centers and also in other parts of the
U.S. We’ll continue to pursue that. We need to see how the whole
regulatory develops and then make suitable changes.”  Obama will address a conference sponsored by the U.S.-India
Business Council Nov. 6 in Mumbai, India’s financial capital,
while in India at the start of a four-nation trip to Asia.  The trip is “very strategic,” Chandrasekaran said. “I
hope the trip makes our two nations much more close and we start
engaging in many more strategic initiatives than ever before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  