-- Thatcher's Cabinet Saw Need to Educate Public on Spending Cuts
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-10-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/thatcher-s-cabinet-saw-need-to-educate-public-on-economic-facts-of-life-.html
Margaret Thatcher ’s first Cabinet
decided it needed a campaign to educate the British public about
the “economic facts of life” to gain acceptance for spending
cuts and pay restraint, according to documents released today.  “We have to dampen down the deeply entrenched expectations
among the public at large that their money incomes increase each
year and that there is an entitlement for pay in line with some
concept of a going rate,” Industry Secretary  Keith Joseph  wrote
in a briefing note to Thatcher in July 1979, less than three
months after their Conservative Party was elected.  The document is among 200 pages of correspondence published
by the  National Archives  in London. Thatcher came to power after
the 1978-79 “winter of discontent,” in which public-sector
labor unions staged widespread strikes to protest Labour Prime
Minister  James Callaghan ’s attempt to cap pay.  Nine days ago, the current Conservative government under
Prime Minister  David Cameron  announced details of cuts totaling
81 billion pounds ($129 billion) by 2015, the biggest since
World War II, to slash the  record budget deficit . A total of
490,000 public-sector jobs will be lost.  “The government are committed to a high quality of public
services, but their provision must be in line with what the
economy can afford,” a 1979 briefing note said. “Over-
ambitious public spending plans can only damage the wealth-
creating sector of the economy.”  ‘Dangerous Consequences’  The Thatcher government’s strategy was split in two,
according to the documents. Firstly, there would be a quick
campaign to influence the current round of pay negotiations,
convince businesses that the government would attack inflation
and “bringing home to trade unionists and the wider public the
dangerous consequences of higher pay unrelated to higher
output,” according to a memo.  Secondly, a “long campaign” would aim to gradually
educate the public “in facts of economic life and the relevance
of government policies to the country’s recovery.”  “Never in the whole of British postwar economic history --
not even in the oil crisis of 1974 -- has the economic outlook
been so utterly bleak,” said one 31 year-old government memo.  In the third quarter of 1979, the economy shrank by 2.4
percent. That contraction hasn’t been equaled since then, with
the drop in gross domestic product for the first quarter of last
year having been revised up to 2.3 percent. The decline heralded
the beginning of a slump that would last through the first
quarter of 1981.  Though many in government delivered sobering assessments of
the economy and the future, a Treasury special adviser, Peter
Cropper, proposed offering optimism to the public.  “There is no hint of the reforming crusade that some of us
think we are launched on,” he wrote. “No hint of the end goal
of it all -- joy, wealth, national power, two acres and a cow, a
second car in every garage, interesting jobs, leisure,
comfortable trains, Channel Tunnels, atomic power stations,
gleaming new coal mines, everyone a bathroom, patios for all
etc., etc.,”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at   ebuckle@bloomberg.net . 