-- Latvia Needs `Credible' 2011 Budget to Win Rating Upgrade, Rimsevics Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2010-10-29T07:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/latvia-needs-credible-2011-budget-to-win-rating-upgrade-rimsevics-says.html
Latvia, recovering from the European
Union’s deepest recession, must adopt a “credible” budget for
next year before the country’s investment-grade credit rating is
restored, central bank Governor Ilmars Rimsevics said.  “Latvia should accept the 2011 budget convincingly,
transparently and understandably, without any delays so that the
rest of the world understands how it is done and that it’s
credible,” Rimsevics said yesterday in an interview in London.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings cut Latvia’s grades to
junk last year after the country turned to international lenders
for a 7.5 billion-euro ($10.1 billion) bailout. Both companies
raised their outlooks to stable this year. Moody’s Investors
Service rates Latvia Baa3, its lowest investment grade, with a
stable outlook.  Latvia is recovering after a debt-fueled property bubble
burst, forcing the government to push through some of the EU’s
toughest austerity measures. Prime Minister  Valdis Dombrovskis ,
who won Oct. 2 elections, needs to implement more deficit-
cutting measures in the next two years to meet EU rules and
achieve the country’s goal of adopting the euro in 2014.  The government should reduce the budget deficit by 395
million to 440 million lats ($775-$863 million) to reach its
target of narrowing the shortfall to 6 percent of gross domestic
product next year, the EU said last week. The deficit will be
about 9 percent this year, Rimsevics said.  ‘Realistic’ Euro Date  Adopting the euro in 2014 “is realistic” if Latvia meets
next year’s deficit target, the 45-year-old central banker said.  The Baltic state has already approved spending cuts and tax
increases equal to about 14 percent of GDP to make the economy
more competitive and meet the terms of loans from a group led by
the European Commission and the  International Monetary Fund .
Latvia turned to the lenders after it was forced to take over
its second-biggest bank in 2008.  How soon Latvia can wean itself off IMF funding “depends
on how quickly it does these reforms and how quickly we reach a
debt level which is sustainable and financeable,” Rimsevics
said. “Latvia has to do its homework in 2011.”  Only then should Latvia tap international bond markets for
the first time since February 2008, he said.  Budget  “I recommend doing it after the budget is accepted and
Latvia improves its credit rating and markets are more positive
about Latvia,” Rimsevics said.  Latvia’s credit-default swaps, which investors use to
protect against default or speculate on a borrower’s credit
worthiness, surged to 1,193 basis points in March 2009. They
fell to 287.2 basis points yesterday, below Greece, Ireland,
Portugal, Romania and Hungary.  Rimsevics opposes tax increases as part of the next round
deficit-cutting measures. Instead, the government should
overhaul the way it finances services such as health care,
education and the municipalities, he said.  “Latvia needs to continue structural reforms, it needs to
evaluate all the functions and expenditures,” Rimsevics said.  “That would be the most important avenue where to look for
extra resources rather than go the easy way, namely increase
taxes, which would reduce the competitiveness of Latvian goods
and services. You have to go item by item to see whether that’s
a worthwhile expenditure or not.”  The economy emerged from recession in the first two
quarters of this year, growing 0.3 percent and 0.8 percent,
after  contracting  18 percent in 2009. While reiterating the
central bank’s forecast for a 1 percent decline in GDP this
year, Rimsevics said he “can’t exclude” that the result will
be better or the economy may even grow.  “The Latvian economy regained competitiveness
substantially that had been lost in the earlier years,” he
said. “The recovery has been much speedier than predicted
before.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in Madrid at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  