-- Australian Dollar Declines, Set for Weekly Drop on Fed, RBA Rate Outlook
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-10-29T15:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/australian-dollar-set-for-weekly-decline-on-fed-easing-rba-rate-outlooks.html
Australia’s dollar dropped versus
its U.S. counterpart for a second week as  speculation  the
central bank will leave interest rates on hold next week damped
demand for the nation’s assets.  The Australian currency weakened against the yen after a
report showed private-sector credit gained less than economists
forecast, following data earlier in the week showing consumer
prices rose at a slower pace. The currency also slipped as
traders debated how large an asset-purchase program the Federal
Reserve will announce next week.  “With CPI being more benign than the market expected it
raises doubts whether the RBA is going to hike next week,” said
 Thomas Averill , a Sydney-based director at Rochford Capital, a
currency and interest-rates risk management firm. “The Federal
Reserve’s program may also be a little on the modest side, so
the risks to the Aussie are probably skewed to the downside in
the short term.”  Australia’s currency traded at 97.87 U.S. cents at 11:46
a.m. in New York, down 0.5 percent from 98.28 on Oct. 22. The
currency dropped 1.7 percent to 78.72 yen, from 79.97 last week.
New Zealand’s dollar rose 2 percent to 76.21 cents, from 74.68
cents Oct. 22, and added 0.7 percent to 61.53 yen.  The Aussie has risen 1.1 percent this month while the New
Zealand’s currency gained 3.5 percent this month.  Less Than Forecast  Credit to businesses and consumers in Australia rose 0.1
percent in September, the Reserve Bank of Australia said,
compared with the 0.3 percent gain forecast in a Bloomberg
survey.  Consumer prices  climbed 2.8 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, the Bureau of Statistics said Oct. 27,
slowing from 3.1 percent in the prior three months.  “With inflation weaker than expected and business credit
still falling, the RBA will likely leave rates on hold next
week,”  Paul Bloxham , chief economist for Australia and New
Zealand at HSBC Holdings Plc in Sydney and a former RBA
official, wrote in a research note. “We expect the next move to
be in December.”  RBA policy makers said in minutes of their Oct. 5 meeting
that their decision to keep rates unchanged was influenced by
softening credit growth, expectations the economy would grow at
trend in the near-term and the strength of the currency.  The Australian dollar briefly reached parity with its U.S.
counterpart on Oct. 15, climbing as high as $1.0004.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  