-- Australia Landlords Switch Off Lights as They Face Energy Efficiency Rules
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-10-28T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/australian-landlords-prepare-for-new-energy-efficiency-rules.html
Australia’s biggest office landlords
are switching off lights and installing more efficient air
conditioners ahead of rules demanding reporting of energy use in
the nation with the developed world’s second-highest greenhouse
gas emissions per person.  The largest  property managers  are ahead of legislation
which comes into effect Nov. 1 requiring owners to reveal office
buildings’ energy efficiency to tenants and buyers, according to
Simon Wild, Sydney-based principal at sustainable design
consultants  Cundall . Cundall worked with the U.K. Green Building
Council on a study of the nation’s sustainability rating tool,
the results of which were released in August.  “The industry, particularly the tier one landlords, have
been disclosing for a long time,” Wild said. “Australian
companies are very much market-driven about how they can attract
the big players in town to reside within their buildings.”  GPT Group , Australia’s second-biggest diversified property
trust by market value, cut its buildings’ greenhouse gas
emissions by 28 percent between 2005 and 2009 by installing more
efficient air conditioners and recycling more waste.  Morgan
Stanley -backed  Investa Property Group ’s 21-story  Ark  building in
North Sydney can generate electricity, recycle rainwater and
recharge electric cars.  Australia boasts some of the most environmentally friendly
real-estate groups in the world, a  survey  of global companies by
Netherlands-based  Maastricht University  found this year. Sydney-
based GPT heads the  Dow Jones Sustainability Index’s  21-company
 real-estate leader list , a third of whose members are Australian,
more than any other country.  Energy Efficiency  Australia had the second-highest carbon dioxide emissions
per capita among developed nations, according to 2008  figures 
from the International Energy Agency, the latest data available
from the group. Only Luxembourg’s emissions were higher.  The  legislation  requires owners of office buildings leasing
or selling more than 2,000 square meters (21,528 square feet) to
reveal their day-to-day energy efficiency on the five-star
 National Australian Built Environment Rating System . Companies
pay A$770 ($752) for a rating to New South Wales state’s
 Department of Environment, Climate Change and Water , which
administers the program nationally, and about A$3,000 for an
assessor to review documents including the previous year’s bills,
said Yma ten Hoedt, the department’s principal program manager.  The rules will affect 10 percent of office buildings
nationally every year, DECCW estimates. Companies must also
disclose tenanted areas’ lighting systems’ performance and
provide a statement on buildings’ efficiency from Nov. 1, 2011.  Smaller owners, who may not have ratings or necessary
documents, will be most affected, said Rebecca Pearce, Sydney-
based head of sustainability at CB Richard Ellis Group Inc., the
world’s largest commercial property broker.  Tenants  Government agencies, which occupy about a third of offices
nationally, will require buildings they lease or own to have a
minimum 4.5 star energy rating by next year. The national
average is 2.5 stars, with the biggest landlords targeting 4.5
over the next two to four years.  “To have a building vacant because it’s not efficient or
rated so tenants don’t want to go into it, we don’t even want to
go there,” said  Rowan Griffin , head of sustainability at
Colonial First State, the asset management arm of  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia . Colonial manages 34 office properties, valued
at about A$4 billion.  Almost 300 tenants occupying about 1.5 million square
meters, have committed to the  CitySwitch Green Office  program,
including accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, property
broker  DTZ , and  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the country’s
biggest bank, pledging to achieve at least a four-star tenancy
rating.  Improving Performance  PricewaterhouseCoopers  has spent A$800,000 replacing light
switches in its Sydney office with sensors, according to the
CitySwitch website. DTZ is saving A$3,500 a year on the energy
bill at its Sydney headquarters by introducing steps such as
installing shared printers and setting computing equipment to
turn off automatically, the website said.  A one-star efficiency gain means A$2 to A$4 in annual
savings per square meter, a  Citi Investment Research   study  in
January found. For a 10,000-square-meter office building, that
equates to savings of as much as A$40,000 a year.  A University of California, Berkeley, study  found  buildings
rated under a U.S. plan similar to the system used in the
incoming Australian rules commanded rents of about 3.5 percent
more than comparable properties, and sale prices rose as much as
16 percent. A similar Australian study is expected to be
completed in the second quarter of 2011.  Building Management  Companies reach up to four stars by better timing lights
and equipment use, installing more efficient systems during
upgrades, and better training staff, said Craig Roussac, general
manager for sustainability, safety and environment at Investa.
The company improved one of its building’s performance by 1.5
stars more than expected by adjusting the way it was run by its
manager, he said.  “You can have an efficient car, but you can be driving it
with the handbrake on and completely stuff things up,” Roussac
said. “Conversely, you can have someone who’s passionate and
skilled, and see an increase in returns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 