-- Shortage of Homes, Incomes Preventing a Bubble in Australia, Westpac Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-10-28T04:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/australia-home-shortage-rising-incomes-will-prevent-bubble-westpac-says.html
An “acute” housing shortage,
credit constraints and income growth will keep Australian home
prices from falling,  Westpac Banking Corp.  said, joining
Commonwealth Bank of Australia in refuting warnings of a bubble.  “While we accept that housing is relatively expensive,
issues about prices, incomes and affordability are more complex
than the simple measures used to show over-valuation,”  Bill Evans , chief economist at Westpac, said in an e-mailed report.
Higher prices are driven primarily by a supply-demand imbalance
and not speculative buying, he said.  The comments from Australia’s second-biggest mortgage
lender follow statements from the International Monetary Fund
this month about a “mild overvaluation” in prices.  Jeremy Grantham , chief investment strategist at Grantham Mayo Van
Otterloo & Co., and  Gerard Minack , chief strategist for global
developed markets at Morgan Stanley’s Australian unit, have said
the nation’s house prices are in a bubble and may fall 40
percent.  Preliminary results of a stress test on Australian
mortgages by Fitch Ratings found banks can handle a worst-case
loan default scenario. Commonwealth Bank, the nation’s biggest
mortgage lender, said last month that metropolitan home prices
are in line with coastal cities in other countries, household
debt isn’t much higher and lack of speculation will keep loan
losses in check.  Findings  Average mortgage repayments account for 27.8 percent of
income across all dwellings in all regions, on a loan-to-value
ratio of 75 percent, according to Westpac’s report. This
compares with a peak of 32.7 percent in 2008, and is below peaks
in the U.S. in 2005 and the U.K. in 2007, the bank said.  Affordability data, such as the  Demographia International
Housing Affordability Survey  that shows Australia’s median home
price is 6.8 times gross yearly income in 2009, compare capital
city detached home prices with state-wide income data, Westpac
said. The  RP-Data-Rismark home value index , which considers all
home prices across all regions and comparable incomes, shows an
affordability ratio of 4.5 percent for Australia, the report
said.  Population Growth  Australia’s  population  has grown by an average 305,000 a
year in the past decade, while housing supply has risen by about
105,000, leading to a shortage of about 200,000 homes, Westpac
said. With a further slowdown in new building as higher interest
rates take effect, the shortage is expected to continue, Evans
said.  “As a proportion of the housing stock, the pent-up demand
for housing is equivalent to around 40 percent of all dwellings
that turn over in a year,” Evans wrote. “It can be thought of
as two potential buyers (or potential occupiers) missing out for
every five home sales that occur.”  The nation’s strong labor market and wage growth are
expected to push household incomes up by more than 7 percent a
year, improving affordability, the bank said. The number of
people employed rose 49,500 in September from a month earlier,
the most since January, the statistics bureau said earlier this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  