-- Australia's Banks to Face Senate Inquiry Into Competition Within Industry
-- B y   M a r i o n   R a e
-- 2010-10-28T03:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/australia-s-banks-to-face-senate-inquiry-into-competition-within-industry.html
Australia’s upper house Senate today
voted to hold an inquiry into competition within the nation’s
banking industry, including the fees they charge and the cost of
funding mortgages to home buyers and businesses.  “There’s nothing wrong with a bank making a healthy profit,
the issue is if those profits are a result of an environment
that is not as fully competitive as it should be,” independent
Senator  Nick Xenophon , who called for the inquiry, said in a
telephone interview today after the vote was passed.  The inquiry will cover the banks’ “exorbitant” fees and
their claims about costs, Xenophon said.  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia ,  National Australia Bank Ltd. ,  Westpac Banking Corp. 
and  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. , the so-called
four pillars, should testify about the state of competition
between banks and non-bank lenders, he added.  The inquiry, due to be completed in March, includes
scrutiny of banks’ claims about the cost of raising money to
fund mortgages, according to the terms of reference.  ANZ today said its second-half profit jumped 69 percent to
a record, partly on a rise in lending to home buyers, and
National Australia Bank announced a 32 percent rise in second-
half cash profit yesterday.  “The idea that the banking system is not competitive is
not right,”  Mike Smith , ANZ’s chief executive officer, told
reporters in Melbourne today. “The system is not broken.”  Opposition Liberal-National coalition treasury spokesman
 Joe Hockey  said earlier this week that banks have “more power
than at any other time,” should not be permitted to raise
interest rates above increases imposed by the Reserve Bank of
Australia and are signaling rate rises to one another.  It’s a “shame” the coalition, which had a “very good
track record on economic management,” has resorted to this sort
of comment, ANZ’s Smith said. “It’s pure populism.”  “It’s important that the chiefs of the four pillars be
called to the inquiry, to hear from them direct,” Xenophon said.
“This is about robust competition in the banking sector and
benefits to consumers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  