-- Avanir Short-Sale Bets Rise to Record Before Oct. 30 FDA Ruling on Drug
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-10-28T20:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/avanir-short-sale-bets-rise-to-record-before-oct-30-fda-ruling-on-drug.html
Investors are making a record number
of bets against  Avanir Pharmaceuticals Inc.  shares and pushing
options prices to a four-year high before U.S. regulators rule
on the drugmaker’s proposed neurological therapy by Oct. 30.  Avanir, based in Aliso Viejo, California, is seeking
approval of the drug, AVP-923, to reduce bouts of involuntary
laughing and crying among patients who have suffered brain
injuries or have multiple sclerosis or  Lou Gehrig ’s disease,
also known as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.  Four analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg have a buy rating on
the shares and two issued notes this month predicting approval.
A report, “Nine Reasons to Sell Avanir,” sent to investors
Monday by Favus Institutional Research LLC, predicted the drug
wouldn’t be approved by the Food and Drug Administration due to
concerns over heart safety, said  Elliot Favus , the firm’s co-
founder.  “Our view is that there’s no dose of the drug that doesn’t
cause a delay in electrical conduction of the heart and we think
that’s a concern for the FDA,” Favus said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Avanir rose 10 cents, or 3.7 percent, to $2.81 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading and has
gained 54 percent in the past twelve months.  AVP-923 is a combination of quinidine, a generic drug that
prevents heart arrhythmia, and dextromethorphan, a cough
suppressant. The combination is thought to affect the
neurotransmitter glutamate, Avanir has said.  Short Selling  More than 26 percent of the company stock available for
trading, or float, were sold short as of Oct. 26, up from 11
percent two months ago and a 2010 low of 6.3 percent in January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Data Explorers, a
New York-based research firm that tracks short sales. Implied
volatility, the key gauge of option prices, for at-the-money
Avanir contracts expiring in 30 days has doubled in the past six
weeks to 357.49.  Short sellers profit from the decline in share prices by
selling borrowed securities and later replacing them with shares
bought at lower levels. Investors use options to guard against
fluctuations in the price of securities they own, speculate on
share-price moves or bet that  volatility , or stock swings, will
rise or fall.  Avanir presented results of a study at the American Academy
of Neurology’s annual meeting in Toronto on April 13 showing
that patients reported fewer episodes of involuntary laughing
and crying after taking the medication. The uncontrolled
displays of emotion are known as  pseudobulbar affect .  FDA Concern  The FDA declined to approve the drug in 2006, citing
concerns over heart rhythm safety, said  Ritu Baral , an analyst
for Cannacord Genuity in New York. The agency’s chief concern
was whether quinidine caused QT prolongation, a change in
electrical rhythm that can increase heart attack risk, she said.  The company then reformulated the drug with a lower dose of
quinidine and conducted new studies, she said.  “We view all the safety data, including heart rhythm
safety data, as clean,” Baral said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “We don’t think FDA will delay approval.”  There is a 75 percent chance the FDA will clear the drug
and that Avanir will begin marketing it in the first half of
2011, Baral said in a note yesterday to investors.  The options market is assigning an equal probability that
the stock will plunge below $1 or soar above $7.50 because
prices for November options to bet on moves to those levels are
the same, said  Ophir Gottlieb , head of client services at
Livevol Inc., a San Francisco-based provider of options market
analytics.  “The options market is implying it’s equally likely that
the company triples in value or goes bankrupt,” Gottlieb said.
“If the experts are guessing there will be a good result, the
options market isn’t buying it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net ;  Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
   jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ; Reg
Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 