-- Bachoco, Braskem, Ecopetrol, Gruma, Vale: Latin America Equity Preview
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2010-10-28T07:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/bachoco-braskem-ecopetrol-gruma-vale-latin-america-equity-preview.html
The following companies may have
unusual price changes in Latin American trading. Stock symbols
are in parentheses and share prices reflect the previous close.  The  MSCI Latin America Index  fell 1 percent to 4,453.92. In
Brazil, preferred shares usually are the most-traded class of
stock.  Brazil  Braskem SA  (BRKM5 BZ): Latin America’s largest
petrochemicals producer will invest $100 million in “green”
propane production, the company said in a regulatory filing. The
shares rose 0.3 percent to 17.55 reais.  Itau Unibanco Holdings SA  (ITUB4 BZ): Brazil will announce
steps to increase companies’ access to long-term financing in
the coming weeks, said Finance Minister  Guido Mantega . The
shares of Brazil’s largest bank by market value fell 2 percent
to 41.54 reais.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  (PETR4 BZ): Brazil will pass new oil
rules proposed by President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  if former
cabinet chief  Dilma Rousseff  becomes president, said  Marco Antonio Almeida,  the energy ministry’s oil and gas secretary.
The shares rose 1.3 percent to 26.19 reais.  Vale SAB  (VALE5 BZ): Third-quarter profit more than tripled
to a record $6.04 billion on rising prices and demand for raw
materials to make steel. The world’s largest producer of iron
ore said in a statement. The shares fell 1 percent to 48.72
reais.  Chile  Corpbanca  (CORPBANC CC): Chile’s central bank and finance
ministry asked the International Monetary Fund and World Bank to
analyze the stability of the country’s financial services
industry, the bank said in a statement. The shares rose 2.9
percent to 7.845 pesos.  Colombia  Ecopetrol SA  (ECOPETL CB): The nation’s largest oil company
is studying the possibility of taking part in a Brazilian
auction of oil rights, said  Hector Manosalva , vice president of
exploration and production, on a conference call. The shares
were unchanged at 4,360 pesos.  Mexico  America Movil SAB  (AMXL MM): Net income rose to 23.4
billion pesos in the third quarter, Latin America’s largest
wireless carrier said in a statement to the Mexican stock
exchange. The shares declined 1.6 percent to 35.48 pesos.  Corporacion GEO SAB  (GEOB MM): Profit in the third quarter
fell to 433 million pesos, Mexico’s second-largest homebuilder
said. The shares gained 0.6 percent to 39.54 pesos.  Gruma SAB  (GRUMAB MM): Net income in the third quarter rose
to 238.4 million pesos, the company said in an e-mailed
statement. The shares rose 5.7 percent to 23.73 pesos.  Grupo Carso SAB  (GCARSOA1 MM): Profit rose to 1.94 billion
pesos in the third quarter, the holding company controlled by
billionaire Carlos Slim said in a statement to the Mexican stock
exchange. The shares rose 0.2 percent to 70.4 pesos.  Grupo Famsa SAB  (GFAMSAA MM): Net income fell to 195.9
million pesos in the third quarter, the retail store operator
said in a statement to the Mexico stock exchange. The shares
rose 2.3 percent to 17.78 pesos.  Grupo Financiero Inbursa SAB  (GFINBURO MM): Net income rose
to 2.73 billion pesos in the third quarter, the financial
services company owned by billionaire Carlos Slim said in a
statement to the Mexican stock exchange. The shares were little
changed at 53.93 pesos.  Industrias Bachoco SAB  (BACHOCOB MM):  Rodolfo Ramos Arvizu 
will replace  Cristobal Mondragon  Fragoso as chief executive
officer, the nation’s largest poultry producer said in a
statement to Mexico’s stock exchange. The shares fell 1.6
percent to 21.5 pesos.  -- With assistance by Robin Stringer in New York, Heather Walsh
in Bogota, Colombia and Carlos Manuel Rodriguez and Crayton
Harrison in Mexico City. Editor:  Allen Wan   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 dpapadopoulos@bloomberg.net  