-- Bank of America Sued by Florida Borrower Over Loan-Modification Practices
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-10-28T23:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/bank-of-america-sued-by-florida-borrower-over-loan-modification-practices.html
Bank of America Corp. , the largest
U.S. bank by assets, was sued by a Florida borrower who accused
the bank of violating the federal government’s home-loan
modification program to boost its earnings.  The bank told customer-service representatives to mislead
homeowners who ask about loan modifications, ignored completed
modifications and failed to credit payments, Shari Goldman said
yesterday in a complaint filed in U.S. District Court in West
Palm Beach, Florida.  Goldman, who cited unidentified former bank employees in
the complaint as the source of her information, asked the court
to grant her  suit  class-action, or group, status.  “Bank of America has serially strung out, delayed, and
otherwise hindered the modification processes that it
contractually undertook to facilitate when it accepted billions
of dollars from the United States,” Goldman said in her
complaint.  Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, in
July 2008 acquired  Countrywide Financial Corp.  for $2.5 billion
to become the largest U.S. servicer of home loans. Countrywide’s
name became synonymous with the boom in mortgage loans to
borrowers with poor credit as its revenue quadrupled between
2001 and 2006.  Shirley Norton , a Bank of America spokeswoman, said she
couldn’t comment on the complaint because the bank hadn’t seen
it. The bank, she said, has completed more than 85,000
modifications under the government program, known as Home
Affordable Modification Program, or HAMP. It also approved more
than 614,000 “proprietary” modifications completed outside of
the program, she said.  Bank of America led the eight largest loan servicers in
canceling trial-stage loan modifications under HAMP, according
to the U.S. Treasury Department. Through August, the bank had
canceled 159,010 modifications, ahead of Wells Fargo’s 116,163,
Treasury said. Bank of America was fourth in not approving
applicants for even the trial stage of modification, with 93,625
rejections, compared with category leader JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
which reported 187,684.  The most common causes of cancellation are insufficient
documentation, plan payment default and ineligibility because
the borrower’s first-lien housing expense is less than 31
percent of household income.  Modification Denied  In her lawsuit, Goldman said she tried unsuccessfully to
negotiate a permanent modification with Bank of America. She
first applied for a modification in January 2010, after
struggling to keep up with her mortgage payments, according to
the suit.  During the trial period, she made the  required payments  and
submitted the documents Bank of America requested, she claimed.
In September, she learned the modification was denied and was
told she owed $3,158.14 in back payments, which she paid,
according to the complaint. Goldman appealed and was again
denied a modification.  Bank of America and other servicers have financial
incentives to avoid loan modifications and keep mortgages in
default in part because doing so generates more fees and
modifying a loan to decrease its principal reduces fees,
according to the complaint.  “Bank of America has left thousands of borrowers in a
state of limbo -- often worse off than they were before they
sought a modification from Bank of America,” Goldman said.  The case is Shari Goldman v. Bank of America NA, 10-81264,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida (West Palm
Beach).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 