-- Bank of Moscow Debt Sinking as Second Call Option Skipped: Russia Credit
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-10-29T12:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/bank-of-moscow-debt-sinking-as-second-call-option-skipped-russia-credit.html
Bank of Moscow bonds tumbled to the
lowest in almost a year as the lender controlled by Russia’s
richest city passed up an option to repay debt early, stoking
concern more banks will follow.  “It’s considered negative not to call a bond because
investors expect to be paid on that date,”  Rustam Botashev ,
deputy head of research at UniCredit Bank AG, said in a phone
interview in Moscow yesterday. “I’m afraid more banks will end
up not calling their bonds and it will just lead to higher costs
for them in the end.”  Bank of Moscow said yesterday it won’t exercise its right
to redeem $300 million of 2015 notes on Nov. 25. While the bank
currently pays the 7.5 percent coupon, the rate drops to about
5.83 percent after the call deadline expires because of the
decline in U.S. Treasury yields, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The lender is the second in three months to break with
market convention after VTB North-West, a unit of Russia’s
second-largest bank, said Aug. 20 it would forgo a call option
on $400 million of five-year bonds. Alfa Bank, the nation’s
largest private lender, and Russian Standard Bank, controlled by
billionaire  Rustam Tariko , have options to pay 2015 debt in
December. Russian bank debt is lagging behind emerging-market
Eurobonds with notes due in 2011 from OAO Sberbank, the nation’s
largest lender, little changed this year while JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Emerging Markets Eurobond index rose 16 percent.  A slump in Bank of Moscow notes this week sent the yield up
53 basis points, or 0.53 percentage point, to 6.61 percent
yesterday, the highest since Jan. 7, according to ING Groep NV
prices on Bloomberg.  Negative Outlook  The bank, which is 64 percent owned by the city’s
government both directly and indirectly, had its ratings outlook
cut to negative by Fitch Ratings on Sept. 29, the day after
President  Dmitry Medvedev  fired  Yuri Luzhkov  as mayor of Moscow.
Fitch cited concern companies affiliated with the Luzhkov
administration that have backed the bank may no longer provide
support.  Bank of Moscow’s subordinated debt is rated BB+ by Fitch,
one step below investment grade, and Baa2 by Moody’s Investors
Service.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Credit Suisse Group AG
also own stakes, according to the Moscow-based bank’s data.  Luzhkov, who served 18 years at the helm of the city that
contributed almost 25 percent of Russia’s gross domestic product
in 2008, was replaced by  Sergei Sobyanin , Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin ’s chief of staff.  ‘Good Bank’  “It’s a good bank that is important to the city but
political change leads to heightened risk,”  Tim McCarthy , who
helps manage $1 billion in Russian and other emerging-market
assets at Switzerland’s Valartis Asset Management in Geneva said
in a phone interview yesterday. Valartis sold its 2015 Bank of
Moscow callable bonds before Luzhkov’s ouster because it wanted
to take “risk off the table,” McCarthy said.  Bank of Moscow has $307 million of debt due this year and
$929 million due next year, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  The interest rate on the 2015 notes switches to 456.7 basis
points over five-year Treasuries on Nov. 25, according to the
prospectus. Based on the current Treasury yield, that would make
the coupon 5.83 percent, saving Bank of Moscow about $5 million
a year.  ‘Logical Decision’  Forgoing the call option is “the only logical decision
because not repaying this means Bank of Moscow ensures a cheaper
source of funding,”  Maxim Raskosnov , a banking credit analyst
at Moscow-based VTB Capital, said by phone from Frankfurt
yesterday. “With all the political pressure and concern about
the bank’s credit -- whether misplaced or not -- it’s also a
tough ask to put an additional $300 million on the repayment
schedule.”  Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell for a 12th day
today, increasing the yield to 4.503 percent. Its ruble notes
due August 2016 rose, reducing the yield 5 basis points to 7.17
percent.  Russian sovereign  ruble bonds  have returned 9.2 percent
this year compared with 18 percent from Brazilian  local-currency
bonds , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries rose 1 basis point to 212, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ indexes. The difference compares
with 127 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 173 for Brazil,
which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 31 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps increased 1 basis point to
145 today, according to data provider CMA. The contracts pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade, cost 12
basis points more than similar contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  The ruble dropped 0.6 percent to 30.8425 per dollar, headed
for its weakest close in more than a week. Non-deliverable
forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to expectations of
currency movements and interest rate differentials and allow
companies to hedge against currency movements, show the ruble at
31.0706 per dollar in three months.  Lower Rates  Callable bonds allow issuers to get lower interest rates
compared with conventional debt, according to Botashev. The
notes usually include a step-up coupon that’s higher than the
original interest rate to penalize borrowers that don’t redeem
their debt. Coupons on bonds issued by Bank of Moscow, VTB, Alfa
and Russian Standard are all tied to five-year Treasuries. The
Treasury yield has plunged 119 basis points this year, as the
Federal Reserve kept its benchmark interest rate at a record-low
0.25 percent.  Deutsche Bank AG , based in Frankfurt, was the first major
European lender to pass up the option to redeem subordinated
bonds at the first opportunity when it instead switched to a
floating interest rate in December 2008 as the cost of selling
new debt surged amid the global funding freeze.  Alfa, controlled by billionaire  Mikhail Fridman , pays a
8.625 percent annual interest on its $225 million of 2015 bonds
until the Dec. 9 call option date, when the coupon drops to 628
basis points over the five-year U.S. Treasury yield. With U.S.
yields at 1.27 percent yesterday, the new coupon would drop to
7.55 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
close to the yield of 7.67 percent, based on prices for the
bonds yesterday.  ‘More Substantial’  There is a “50-50” chance Alfa will choose not to redeem
the debt as the “spread over Treasuries is more substantial
than the other banks,” said  Dmitry Dudkin , head of fixed income
research at UralSib Financial Corp. “The low U.S. yields are
driving this, not the will of Russian banks,” he said.  Alfa Bank’s debt is rated Ba2 by Moody’s, three steps below
Bank of Moscow.  Mariya Trubnikova, a spokeswoman for Moscow-based Alfa
Bank, declined to comment on the lender’s plans in an e-mailed
response to questions yesterday.  Russian Standard is “unlikely” to exercise its call
option because it has the highest credit risk of all four banks,
Dudkin said in a phone interview in Moscow yesterday. The
Moscow-based bank’s interest rate will drop by 168 basis points
after the Dec. 16 options date to 7.2 percent, based on current
U.S. yields.  Russian Standard  Russian Standard’s $200 million of notes due December 2011
were unchanged yesterday, with the yield at 8.97 percent, down
from as high as 10.12 percent on Aug. 27. The bonds are rated B1
by Moody’s, five steps below Bank of Moscow.  Russian Standard isn’t ready to comment on whether it will
exercise its call option,  Artyom Lebedev , vice president of
public relations in Moscow, said by e-mail yesterday. Lebedev
said in January that the bank doesn’t plan to refinance any debt
this year.  “Investors are resigned to it in the current
circumstances,” said  Ian Spreadbury , a fund manager at Fidelity
Investment Services in London, which holds Bank of Moscow
callable 2015 bonds. “We’ll probably see more of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 