-- Bank of America Pricked in Fed Bailout Farce: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2010-10-28T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/bank-of-america-pricked-in-fed-bailout-farce-jonathan-weil.html
So now we know what it takes for the
Federal Reserve to show an interest in rooting out fraud at a
too-big-to-fail bank. The Fed must decide that the Fed itself
has been defrauded.  Borrowers? Depositors? They can protect themselves. Heaven
help a bailed-out bank unlucky enough to be discovered servicing
some of the Fed’s junky  mortgage bonds , though. Good cops know a
victim when they see one. The Fed knows a victim when it is one.  The supposed perpetrator in this unfolding drama is Bank of
America Corp. Its accusers are a group of mortgage-bond
investors that include the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York ,
Pacific Investment Management Co., and BlackRock Inc., about a
third of which happens to be owned by Bank of America.  The bondholders, who are threatening litigation, want Bank
of America to buy back untold numbers of soured home mortgages
that its Countrywide unit packaged into the loan pools backing
more than $47 billion of residential mortgage bonds. Some of
those securities landed on the New York Fed’s balance sheet as
part of the government’s 2008 rescues of Bear Stearns Cos. and
American International Group Inc.  In a letter last week, the bondholders accused Countrywide
of failing to service the loans properly, which they say
exacerbated their losses. They said Countrywide covered up
instances where mortgages that should have been disqualified
were included in the loan pools anyway. The investors also
accused Countrywide of padding its fees and engaging in a
“fraudulent, unauthorized and deceptive effort to supplement
its servicing income.”  Endemic Fraud  Strong  words , those are. So, where are the police?  If those allegations are true, it can’t be just this one
group of bondholders getting fleeced. The fraud would have to be
endemic, and probably industry-wide. The Justice Department
should be locking up bankers. The Securities and Exchange
Commission should be filing lawsuits for ripping off investors.
The various banking regulators’ enforcement divisions should be
cracking skulls. None of that is happening, of course. And
there’s no sign yet that it will.  The Fed isn’t acting in its capacity as a regulator. It’s
exercising its rights as an investor protecting its own
pecuniary interests and, by extension, those of taxpayers. The
two roles don’t mix well.  100 Cents on Dollar  Consider the argument the Fed was making a year ago when
asked to explain why it didn’t demand concessions from any of
AIG’s counterparties after the Fed bailed out the insurance
company. Those would be the banks, such as Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., that got paid 100 cents on the dollar for credit-default
swaps AIG had sold them.  Demanding they accept less than that “would have been a
misuse of our supervisory authority to further a private purpose
in a commercial transaction,” the New York Fed’s general
counsel,  Thomas Baxter , told the Troubled Asset Relief Program’s
inspector general in a November 2009 joint  letter  with the
Federal Reserve Board’s general counsel,  Scott Alvarez .  A New York Fed spokesman,  Jack Gutt , declined to comment.  Perhaps the Fed could argue it had no legal grounds two
years ago to seek concessions from AIG’s customers, but that its
claims now against Bank of America are solid. Whatever the Fed’s
logic, Bank of America says it will defend itself vigorously.  Most claims “don’t have the defects that people allege,”
its chief executive officer,  Brian Moynihan , said last week. As
long as the facts remain unsettled, the Fed can’t pretend it
isn’t throwing around its weight as a regulator, or that this
isn’t a dispute over a commercial transaction.  Fed Conundrum  It’s a classic Catch-22. If the Fed exercises its rights as
an investor, it undermines its credibility as a supervisor. If
it doesn’t, it’s abandoning its duty to minimize taxpayers’
losses. This shows why the Fed shouldn’t be allowed to hold
mortgage-backed securities of this kind in the first place.  The Fed’s repurchase demands are a small feature of the
larger bailout economy. It works something like this: The
Treasury each quarter sends new bailout checks to Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, which the government seized in 2008, to prevent the
mortgage giants from falling into mandatory receivership. This
ensures the solvency of the Fed, which holds about  $1 trillion 
of mortgage bonds guaranteed by Fannie, Freddie and Ginnie Mae.  The Fed then can go and buy more securities with freshly
printed money, which pushes mortgage-interest rates down and
keeps housing prices up, propping up the banking industry. The
steady payments to Fannie and Freddie also keep the Treasury
from having to backstop their guarantees, for now.  Taxpayer Bailouts  This makes it possible for Fannie, Freddie and the Fed to
send repurchase demands to Bank of America and other lenders,
except they can’t ask for too much. If they do, the taxpayers
might have to bail out the banks all over again.  Meanwhile, Fannie, Freddie and the Fed get to say they’re
being good stewards of the people’s investments. The charade is
part of a neatly circular confidence game. While we can hope
this doesn’t end badly, chances are it will eventually.  This country can survive a bad economy. What it can’t live
without is the rule of law. If the Fed’s claims are true, that a
major bank intentionally defrauded the public on a massive
scale, the government should prosecute everyone responsible.  Americans aren’t measuring the success of the bailouts only
in dollars and cents. They’re evaluating them in terms of
justice. The problem is there hasn’t been any.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  