-- Bank of Japan to Buy Lowered-Rated Corporate Debt
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-10-28T08:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/bank-of-japan-to-buy-lowered-rated-corporate-debt-to-spur-economic-growth.html
The Bank of Japan brought forward
the date of its next policy meeting, a move to accelerate
stimulus for a slowing economy that prompted a jump in Japanese
bond prices on speculation of further easing steps.  The BOJ also said it will buy corporate debt with lower
credit ratings than it previously purchased, including BBB rated
corporate bonds and a-2 commercial paper, according to a
statement today in Tokyo. Board members will meet on Nov. 4-5 to
discuss purchases of exchange-traded funds and real-estate
investment trusts, more than a week earlier than scheduled.  Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa ’s decision to change the meeting
date to follow the Federal Reserve’s Nov. 2-3 gathering signals
he wants scope to react to any Fed easing, said economist Hideo
Kumano. New York Fed President  William Dudley  set expectations
of about $500 billion in bond purchases by the U.S. central bank,
a step that may spur the yen and pose risks to Japan’s growth.  “The surprise was that the BOJ changed its schedule for
the monetary policy meeting to right after the FOMC, indicating
they are ready to address any market movements, especially in
currencies,” said Kumano, chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life
Research Institute in Tokyo and a former BOJ official. “They
are ready for a currency-devaluation race.”  FOMC Not Factor  Shirakawa said the dates of overseas events including the
Federal Open Market Committee meeting weren’t behind the BOJ’s
decision to move up the meeting date from Nov 15-16.  “We didn’t take them into consideration,” he told a news
conference in Tokyo after the board meeting. Shirakawa said the
board wanted to speed up purchases of ETFs and REITs by holding
the meeting early and that policy and economic issues will be
discussed as usual.  Japanese government bonds rose on speculation the BOJ could
use the meeting to loosen credit further. The yield on the 10-
year bond fell five basis points to 0.905 percent as of 5:24 p.m.
in Tokyo.  “The BOJ is holding the next meeting earlier and will be
ready to take action after markets react to the Fed’s action,”
said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist at Norinchukin Research
Institute Co. in Tokyo. “Investors still have an appetite for
bonds, especially short-term notes.”  The Bank of Japan’s board also left unchanged its forecast
for consumer price growth of 0.1 percent in the fiscal year
starting April 2011, and predicted a 0.6 percent increase the
following year. Both forecasts are below the board’s median
expectations that prices should rise by 1 percent to be
considered stable.  Growth to Slow  The bank said that the economy will slow in the latter half
of this fiscal year and there will be “some lingering effects
of the yen’s appreciation” next year. The economy will recover
after a temporary slowdown, it said.  At its last meeting on Oct. 5, the BOJ policy board
unveiled “comprehensive monetary easing” steps including a 5
trillion yen ($61 billion) fund to buy more assets. Shirakawa
repeated today that the bank is prepared to expand the fund if
necessary.  “The Bank of Japan will continue to be exposed to calls on
it to do more,”  Izuru Kato , chief market economist at Totan
Research Co. in Tokyo, said before the announcement. “There is
a chance that the bank would double the size of the fund as
early as in November.”  Global Crisis  The bank had only accepted bonds rated A or higher and a-1
commercial paper when it was buying corporate debt in 2009 in
the wake of the global credit crisis.  Japan’s central bank is trying to aid an economy that is
feeling the pain of deflation and the yen’s climb to a 15-year
high, which is threatening the profits of exporters that have
driven the economic recovery. The currency traded at 81.34
against the dollar as of 5:13 p.m.  The bank maintained the benchmark overnight call rate
between zero percent and 0.1 percent, as forecast by economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. It also kept the amounts of its 5
trillion-yen asset buying fund and 30 trillion-yen credit
program unchanged.  The fund will purchase 1.5 trillion yen of government debt,
450 billion yen in ETFs and 50 billion yen of REITs, the bank
said. ETFs and REITs will be purchased at market price.  Staying Profitable  For Japanese companies, around 90 yen is “the limit to
stay profitable,”  Eiji Hayashida , chairman of the Japan Iron
and Steel Federation and president of JFE Steel Corp., said this
week.   Nissan Motor Co.  Chief Operating Officer  Toshiyuki Shiga 
said this week the automaker plans to revise its expected
exchange rate for the second half of this fiscal year to reflect
a stronger yen.  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , who led Japan’s
intervention for the first time in six years in September, said
this week that the yen’s advance can’t be stopped by the
government’s efforts alone and he wants to work together with
the central bank to prop up economic growth.  “It’s just unavoidable that Japanese companies will slash
their profit outlooks,” said  Mari Iwashita , chief market
economist at Nikko Cordial Securities in Tokyo. “It’s fully
possible that the BOJ will take an additional easing step by the
end of the year, and it will probably seek to expand the fund,
prolong the duration of assets it buys and ease requirements for
purchases.”  Riskier Assets  With money-market rates already low, the central bank is
turning to purchases of riskier assets to reduce their premiums
and push down borrowing costs.  BOJ policy makers pledged on Oct. 5 to maintain its
“virtually zero rate policy” until price stability comes in
sight.  “Given that 1 percent inflation is the median level of
what the BOJ considers price stability, we have to say it’s
almost impossible to predict” when the bank will be able to
exit its current rate policy, said  Seiji Shiraishi , chief
economist at HSBC Securities in Tokyo.  The Ministry of Finance approved the BOJ’s plan to purchase 
ETFs and REITs, the central bank said in an e-mailed statement
today, a step required for the bank to proceed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  