-- Bank-Rescue Fund, Bonus Curbs at Bailed-Out Lenders Go to Parliament Vote
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2010-10-28T11:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/bank-rescue-fund-bonus-curbs-at-bailed-out-lenders-go-to-parliament-vote.html
German lawmakers are set to pass a
law shifting more responsibility to banks in managing shocks to
the financial system and setting caps on bonuses for executives
of lenders bailed out by the taxpayer.  The legislation, more than a year in the drafting, is aimed
at replacing the government’s 480 billion-euro ($665 billion)
bank-rescue fund with money from banks. The law includes updated
insolvency rules, limits to bonus payments at banks including
 Commerzbank AG  and  Hypo Real Estate Holding AG  as well as a
framework for Germany to sell its stakes in those lenders. The
government has a lower-house majority that ensures the law will
pass in a vote scheduled for about 8 p.m. today.  The bill marks a shift from state-backed crisis-management
to preventative measures funded by banks, prompting lenders to
complain about the costs they will have to shoulder. Opposition
parties say the government hasn’t done enough to shield
taxpayers from having to bail out distressed banks deemed to be
“systemically relevant.”  “This bill is not a milestone but a missed opportunity,”
 Gerhard Schick , parliamentary finance spokesman for the
opposition Greens, said in an interview. “The new fund is
woefully underfinanced, plus the banks have carte blanche to
ramp up bonus pay the minute the government pulls out of its
rescue stakes.”  The bill bars the four lenders in which the government
bought stakes since 2008 -- Commerzbank, Hypo Real,  Aareal Bank
AG  and  WestLB AG  -- from paying any staff member more than
500,000 euros annually, whatever the composition of the pay. The
pay threshold can be exceeded by any bank that returns at least
half of the government’s rescue aid, the bill shows.  Smaller Than Soffin  The bill also limits the new bank fund to 70 billion euros,
about a seventh of the existing Soffin fund. Private lenders
will contribute a total of about 1.3 billion euros annually,
according to the Finance Ministry. That means it might take more
than 50 years to reach full capacity.  Germany’s private banks have campaigned to push down
payments into the fund, saying this week in a BDB federation
statement that they have “reached their limit” in paying for
regulations introduced by Merkel’s government.  As of  Oct. 19 , Soffin put up 221.1 billion euros in bank
guarantees and purchases of stakes. It failed to a show a profit
on the investment in 2009.  The U.S. government’s bailout of financial companies
through the Troubled Asset Relief Program has earned $25.2
billion on its investment of $309 billion in banks and insurance
companies, an 8.2 percent return over two years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 