-- BASF Aims to Raise Dividend After Posting Higher Third-Quarter Net Income
-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-10-28T16:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/basf-to-raise-dividend-after-third-quarter-profit-jumps-outlook-improves.html
BASF SE , the world’s largest
chemical maker, will resume dividend increases after third-
quarter profit jumped by 1 billion euros ($1.39 billion) and the
company raised sales and earnings outlooks for 2010.  Net income  in the quarter rose to 1.25 billion euros, or
1.35 euros a share, from 237 million euros, or 26 cents, a year
earlier, the Ludwigshafen, Germany-based company said today
in a statement. BASF reported on Oct. 20 that sales advanced
23 percent to 15.8 billion euros.  Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Hambrecht , who steps down
next year, said BASF will earn “a high premium” on its cost of
capital, allowing the manufacturer to raise the dividend.  BASF 
cut the payout on 2009 earnings, the first reduction in 16
years, after narrowly missing profit targets. It pledged the
reduction would be temporary as earnings improve this year.  “With no special effects and a smashing year, it makes
sense to give shareholders a little treat,” said  Heiko Feber ,
an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe in Dusseldorf, Germany, who
 recommends  buying the stock. “Since we don’t expect a double
dip in the economy, BASF will probably keep up moderate growth
next year.”  Shareholders  received 1.70 euros a share in the most recent
payout, down from 1.95 euros a year earlier. The  prediction  for
the next dividend is 2.05 euros, according to Bloomberg
analytics.  BASF  rose  0.3 percent to 52.37 euros at the market close at
5:30 p.m. in Frankfurt today. The stock has gained 21 percent
this year, valuing the company at 48.1 billion euros.  2010 Forecasts  The company has achieved 600 million euros out of a cost-
reduction target of 1 billion euros by 2012, Hambrecht said in a
call with analysts. Cash flow will continue to be “strong” in
the fourth quarter, he said.  The company said last week that, with “good business
development” in the fourth quarter, full-year earnings before
interest, taxes and one-time gains or costs will exceed
8 billion euros, an increase of at least 65 percent from the
 2009 figure . Revenue is forecast to rise to 63 billion euros
from 50.7 billion euros last year. The company said in September
that sales growth will be “strong” and predicted in July that
earnings would increase “considerably.”  “We are now profiting from the favorable economic
environment because we further improved our competitiveness in
the crisis and made our portfolio even more cyclically
resilient,” Hambrecht said in today’s statement.  Ebit excluding special items surged 70 percent at the
chemicals division and 72 percent at the plastics unit as
BASF passed on higher raw-material prices to consumers. The
Agricultural Solutions division more than tripled profit,
boosted by sales in South America.  Hambrecht will be succeeded by Chief Financial Officer  Kurt Bock  in May after leading the company for eight years. Board
member  Hans-Ulrich Engel  will take over as CFO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Benedikt Kammel  in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  