-- Bayer Third-Quarter Net Rises as Sales of Plastics Rebound from Recession
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2010-10-28T15:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/bayer-third-quarter-net-rises-as-sales-of-plastics-rebound-from-recession.html
Bayer AG ’s third-quarter profit rose
12 percent as sales at the plastics unit, the laggard last year
among the company’s three divisions, soared on a recovery in
demand from carmakers and manufacturers.  Net income climbed to 280 million euros ($387.1 million)
from 249 million euros a year earlier, the Leverkusen, Germany-
based company said in a statement today. The result fell short
of the 494.5 million-euro average  estimate  of 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Bayer confirmed its earnings forecast for
the year and raised its outlook for the plastics unit.  The plastics recovery offset a drop in pharmaceutical
revenue in North America as top-selling birth-control pill Yaz
faced generic competition in the U.S. Investors are looking
beyond the earnings to clinical trial results next month showing
whether Bayer’s blood thinner Xarelto can compete in the stroke
prevention market, said  Tero Weckroth , a Zurich-based analyst
for Kepler Capital Markets.  “This is positive, but will be overshadowed,” Weckroth,
who  recommends  buying the stock, said in a telephone interview.  Bayer Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer
 Marijn Dekkers  estimated in a Bloomberg Television interview
that Xarelto sales may peak at more than 2 billion euros
annually and the market for new blood thinners including Xarelto
may surpass 10 billion euros.  Stock Drop  Bayer fell 90 cents, or 1.6 percent, to 53.98 euros at 5:35
p.m. in Frankfurt trading. Before today, Bayer had risen 1
percent this year including reinvested dividends,  compared with 
a 7.4 percent return for the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical
Index .  Earnings at the MaterialScience plastics unit this year
will be more than 1.3 billion euros, about three times the prior
year’s level, the company said. Bayer previously predicted
profit would more than double.  Revenue  from the unit rose 31
percent to 2.67 billion euros in the quarter. MaterialScience
 earnings  plunged 59 percent last year amid the worst chemical-
industry slump in 35 years.  Bayer said it plans to release results at the  American
Heart Association  conference on Nov. 15 of a study comparing
Xarelto with warfarin, the half-century-old former industry
standard, in patients with an irregular heartbeat called atrial
fibrillation.  Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH  this month beat Bayer and its
partner  Johnson & Johnson  to market with the first replacement
for warfarin.  Pfizer Inc.  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  also are
working on a replacement for the older treatment.  ‘Large Opportunity’  “There is a large opportunity, more than 10 billion
euros,” Dekkers said of the blood thinner market. “There is
room for various companies to do very well.”  Dekkers, who took over as chief executive on Oct. 1, said
he’s focused on building Bayer through “innovations we’ve
developed ourselves.”  Acquisitions are “not a priority for me as the new CEO,”
he said. “When there are possibilities, opportunities for an
acquisition, we’ll obviously take a serious look, but we don’t
feel we need to do an acquisition real soon to augment our
portfolio.”  Bayer still aims for profit at the health-care unit to at
least reach last year’s level, though “this is considered an
ambitious target” given the performance so far and the strength
of the euro, according to the company’s statement. Health
revenue in the quarter rose 8.5 percent to 4.3 billion euros.  Net income was depressed by 436 million euros of costs for
litigation in the U.S. Most of the money was set aside to settle
lawsuits against Bayer over claims its genetically engineered
seed contaminated U.S. long-grain rice fields. Core earnings per
share, which excludes one-time costs such as litigation
expenses, rose 22 percent to 95 cents.  Core earnings per share this year will  rise  more than 15
percent as profit before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization excluding special items climbs to more than 7
billion euros, the drug and chemical maker repeated.  Sales of crop chemicals rose 18 percent to 1.3 billion
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  