-- Combs May Face Lower Yields at Berkshire as Crisis Deals Unwind
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-10-28T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/berkshire-s-combs-may-face-lower-yields-as-buffett-s-crisis-deals-unwind.html
Todd Combs , the hedge-fund manager
hired by  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , may face declining yields from
the firm’s portfolio with the termination of investments made by
Chairman  Warren Buffett  in the financial crisis.  Combs, 39, will help Buffett, 80, select investments as
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ,  General Electric Co.  and  Swiss
Reinsurance Co.  weigh returning the $10.7 billion that Berkshire
injected in late 2008 and early 2009. The two men may be unable
to find opportunities that match the payments of at least 10
percent that Berkshire collects from the three firms, said  Meyer Shields  of Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “Those yields are not sustainable,” said Shields, an
analyst who  recommends selling  Berkshire shares. “In some cases
there are nice returns available. But they’re not the same.”  Buffett’s selection of Combs, who managed shares of banks
and insurers for Castle Point Capital Management LLC, may help
Berkshire as  bond yields  fall and the Omaha, Nebraska-based
company shifts focus back to equities. Buffett said this month
that “it’s quite clear that stocks are cheaper than bonds.”  Buffett and Vice Chairman  Charles Munger  expect Combs to
“continue to do exactly what he’s already been doing,” said
 Guy Spier , a Berkshire shareholder and principal at Aquamarine
Funds LLC. Combs “seems to be an expert in financial-services
firms. I would fully expect him to continue to do that.”  Berkshire lost an annualized $337 million in payments when
Wells Fargo & Co., the largest bank on the U.S. West Coast,  cut 
its quarterly dividend to 5 cents from 34 cents in March 2009.
The decline was calculated using the 290.2 million shares
Berkshire held at the end of 2008. A cut by  U.S. Bancorp  cost
Berkshire an annualized total of more than $100 million.  Munich Re, Wells Fargo  Buffett’s purchase of shares in Munich Re, the world’s
biggest reinsurer, may restore some of the lost dividend income.
The billionaire disclosed a 3 percent stake in the company in
January and increased the holding to more than 10 percent this
month. Munich Re has a  dividend yield  of about 5.2 percent,
compared with less than 1 percent for Wells Fargo and U.S.
Bancorp, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Buffett drew down Berkshire’s stockholdings in 2008 to help
 fund the deals  with New York-based Goldman Sachs and GE. The
transactions with those companies and Swiss Re provided for
payments of $1.05 billion in 2009, according to an estimate by
 Paul Howard  of Solstice Investment Research, or about a fifth of
Berkshire’s investment income.  Goldman Sachs, the most profitable firm on Wall Street, is
considering repaying Berkshire its $5 billion, a person familiar
with the company’s plans said last week. The preferred stake can
be recalled by Goldman at any time at a 10 percent premium.  ‘Insanely Low’  GE Chief Financial Officer  Keith Sherin  said in an Oct. 15
interview that the Fairfield, Connecticut-based firm would
consider opening talks on an early buyback of a $3 billion
preferred stake. The investment is callable at a 10 percent
premium after three years, GE said in 2008.  Swiss Re plans to repay investments from Berkshire instead
of allowing Buffett to convert bonds into stock, the company
said in August.  “I’m sure that’s going to get paid back as quickly as
those firms can,” said Howard, director of research at
Glastonbury, Connecticut-based Solstice. “What these firms can
issue long-term debt at is an insanely low number.”  Yields on U.S. investment-grade debt fell to a record of
3.55 percent on Oct. 11, the lowest borrowing cost in data going
back to October 1986, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  Bonds a ‘Mistake’  Investors who buy bonds amid the decline in yields are
making a “mistake,” Buffett said at an Oct. 5 conference in
Washington. “I can’t imagine anyone having bonds in their
portfolio when they can own equities.”  Berkshire had boosted its bond holdings during the credit
freeze as other investors retreated. In the two years ended in
June, Berkshire’s fixed-maturity purchases exceeded its sales by
$13.8 billion, according to the company’s quarterly reports. Net
sales of equity securities were $933 million in the same period.  Berkshire had $34.5 billion in fixed-maturity securities
and $54.7 billion of equities at the end of June. The Goldman
Sachs, GE and Swiss Re holdings were listed by Berkshire among
the firm’s “other investments,” which totaled about $25.6
billion, according to the company’s second-quarter report.  Berkshire also had more than $60 billion at risk in
derivatives contracts as of June 30. Buffett uses derivatives to
speculate on long-term moves in equity markets and the credit
quality of corporate and municipal borrowers.  Combs will manage a “significant portion” of Berkshire’s
portfolio, the company said in an Oct. 25 statement, without
providing specifics.  Buffett is preparing Berkshire for his eventual departure.
The billionaire has said his responsibilities will be split
among at least three people upon his death or retirement. A
chief executive officer will oversee the more than 70 operating
units assembled by Buffett, and one or more investment heads
will be appointed to manage Berkshire’s portfolio. Buffett has
said his son,  Howard Buffett , would be an effective non-
executive chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 