-- Berlusconi Says Mt. Vesuvius Garbage Crisis Is Damaging Italy's Image
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2010-10-28T13:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/berlusconi-says-mt-vesuvius-garbage-crisis-is-damaging-italy-s-image.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
said a garbage crisis on the slopes of Mt. Vesuvius in Italy’s
Campania region will be over within three days, though it’s
already caused “huge damage” to the country’s image.  Berlusconi made his remarks at a news conference today in
the town of Acerra near the southern port of Naples, Campania’s
capital, six days after promising to end the region’s latest
trash crisis within two weeks.  “These problems have sent out an incredibly  negative image 
of Italy,” Berlusconi said. There has been “huge damage to our
country and ‘made in Italy’ products.”  The garbage crisis is the latest flare-up of a problem that
helped bring Berlusconi back to office in 2008. The 74-year-old
premier, after campaigning that year to end a five-month-long
trash crisis in Naples, pushed through measures to clean up the
garbage during his Cabinet’s first meeting. He eventually sent
in the military to keep dumps open and haul away trash, a move
he has said isn’t needed now.  “We said it would take 10 days to solve the problem and
we’ve already progressed a lot,” Berlusconi said today. “The
problem is 90 percent solved” and the smell coming from the
garbage pileup “is only 10 percent of what it was a few days
ago.”  The government said Oct. 22 it would take over management
of a waste dump on Mt. Vesuvius, the volcano whose eruption more
than 2,000 years ago destroyed the Roman city of Pompeii. Local
residents opposed to the facility have protested for almost two
weeks, with some demonstrators smashing shop windows and burning
garbage trucks in rallies that left thousands of tons of trash
uncollected.  Garbage Agreement  Berlusconi said the government hopes to reach an accord on
trash disposal with 18 towns around Mt. Vesuvius in 10 days, and
that a new incinerator will be built within two years. The
government will also begin promoting recycling in a region where
only 18 percent of trash is sorted, the premier said.  Italians for days have watched televised scenes that
resemble  guerrilla fighting  in the streets of Terzigno, a town
south of Naples. Residents including mothers and children have
blocked garbage trucks, while protesters have battled police,
thrown Molotov cocktails, wrecked storefronts and torched trash
trucks and police cars. Scores of police officers and residents
have been hurt in the skirmishes and property damages are
estimated in the tens of millions of euros, media including
 Corriere della Sera  have reported.  The European Commission, the European Union’s executive arm
in Brussels, on Oct. 22 expressed “concern” about the issue.
Italy may lose out on 145 million euros ($201 million) in EU
funds that were frozen because the Mt. Vesuvius dumpsite is in a
national park, Ansa reported that day, citing  Judith Merkies  of
the European Parliament’s Industry, Research and Energy
Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 