-- Bharat Petroleum Rises Most in Two Months After Brazil Deepwater Oil Find
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-10-28T07:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/bharat-petroleum-rises-most-in-two-months-after-brazil-oil-find.html
Bharat Petroleum Corp.  gained the
most in more than two months after a group including India’s
second-biggest state refiner found crude oil in a deepwater area
off Brazil’s northern coast.  The  shares  rose as much as 5.7 percent, the most since Aug.
23, and climbed 4.3 percent to 732 rupees at 12:16 p.m. in
Mumbai trading. The stock has advanced 15 percent this year,
tracking gains in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  Indian oil companies are seeking access to resources
overseas as demand for fuels increases in Asia’s second-biggest
energy consumer. Bharat Petroleum, Videocon Industries Ltd. and
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-controlled oil company,
own stakes in the Sergipe-Alagoas Basin where “large
accumulations” of oil were found in the Barra well, according
to a regulatory filing yesterday.  “Brazil is a prospective oil and gas bearing area and that
is lifting sentiments on the Bharat Petroleum stock,” said
 Vinay Nair , a Mumbai-based analyst with Khandwala Securities
Ltd. “We still have to wait for more data from the discovery,
the production rates and reserves before you can build it into
the stock.”  Petrobras, Bharat Petroleum and Videocon will continue
drilling in the discovered well and invest in other wells,
Bharat Petroleum said in a statement to the Bombay Stock
Exchange today. The company didn’t provide details of reserves
or production rates.  IBV Brasil Petroleo Ltda., a unit of Bharat Petroleum and
Videocon, has a 40 percent stake in block BM-SEAL-11, where
Petrobras drilled the Barra well. Petrobras owns the remaining
60 percent.  Fuel consumption in India may climb 5.7 percent to 146.08
million metric tons in the year ending March, according to data
on the website of the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell, a
division of the oil ministry.  Bharat Petroleum is part of a separate group that
discovered natural gas in a Mozambique offshore area last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 