-- BHP Wins Order Sealing Part of Revamped Potash Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-29T02:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/bhp-wins-interim-court-order-sealing-parts-of-revised-complaint-by-potash.html
BHP Billiton Ltd.  won an interim
court order sealing parts of a revised complaint  Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc.  filed in an effort to block a $40 billion
hostile takeover.  U.S. District Judge  Charles Norgle  today imposed a
temporary blackout on seven paragraphs of the revised  complaint 
about seven hours before Potash filed it, giving BHP until the
close of business on Nov. 1 to explain why they should remain
under seal. Potash Corp. has three days to respond. A
preliminary injunction hearing is set for Nov. 4.  “What’s the harm?” Norgle asked Potash Corp. lawyer  Lee Ann Russo  during a hearing today in Chicago. Russo and  Michele Odorizzi , a lawyer for BHP, earlier told the judge that BHP was
dropping a demand to redact 48 paragraphs. The company sought to
shield what it called in court papers “highly confidential and
sensitive business information.”  Potash Corp., the world’s biggest fertilizer maker, sued
Melbourne-based BHP on Sept. 22, accusing the world’s largest
mining company of making misleading public statements to drive
down Potash Corp.’s share value before the Aug. 17 bid.  BHP denied the allegations. Both sides have been engaged in
the pre-trial exchange of evidence -- some of which is subject
to seal -- in preparation for the hearing next week.  Sealing Request  This week, Saskatoon-based Potash Corp., citing evidence
gleaned during the disclosure process, asked U.S. District Judge
 David H. Coar  for permission to file the revised complaint with
confidential portions blacked out. Coar rejected the sealing
request yesterday.  “In the absence of a showing of a need for
confidentiality, the allegations of the complaint should be
available to the public,” Coar wrote in his order.  BHP responded later in the day by filing an emergency
motion to seal parts of the complaint.  In the revised complaint, Potash Corp. amplifies
allegations it previously made regarding BHP’s takeover
strategy.  “Since March 2009, BHP has at every opportunity taken
steps to publicly tout its plans to establish a new potash mine
and to disrupt the potash industry in a manner designed to
depress the perceived future value of PCS,” the fertilizer
producer alleged.  Those actions were the culmination of an intention to
acquire Potash Corp. that can be traced back to 2001, according
to the Canadian company.  Misquoted Evidence  BHP, in an e-mailed statement, acknowledged the revised
allegations and said they wouldn’t alter the outcome of a
lawsuit that is without merit.  “Much of the purported ‘evidence’ that Potash Corp. has
cited in its complaint has been misquoted or taken out of
context,” the Australian company said.  Potash Corp. stockholders have until Nov. 18 to accept its
$130 per share buyout. “We do not believe this lawsuit will
interfere with or delay our offer,” BHP said.  The Canadian government is to decide by Nov. 3 whether to
approve or reject the takeover based on a calculation of the
transaction’s benefit to that country.  Potash Corp.  fell $4.79 to $142.53 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  The case is Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan v. BHP Billiton,
10-06024, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 