-- Biggest Banks in Baltic Region Return to Profit Amid Recovery
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-10-28T11:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/biggest-banks-in-baltic-region-return-to-profit-amid-recovery.html
Swedbank AB ,  SEB AB  and  Nordea Bank
AB , the largest lenders in the Baltic countries, returned to
profitability in the region as credit losses narrowed amid the
economic recovery.  SEB  today reported the first profit in two years at its
unit for Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in the third quarter
after loan impairments tumbled. Swedbank said last week that its
operations in the region had a quarterly profit for the first
time since 2008, while Nordea became profitable in the second
quarter of this year.  At the height of the crisis in the Baltic countries, which
suffered the deepest recessions in the European Union last year,
Swedish banks were saddled with more than 10 billion kronor
($1.5 billion) of loan losses in the second quarter of 2009
alone. Swedbank, SEB and Nordea all sold shares to replenish
capital and cover an increase in bad debt.  "The Swedish banks took a beating during the economic
crisis because of their exposure to the Baltics, but investors
would be wise to notice that these banks, which are already well
capitalized, seem to have ridden out the storm," said  Lex van Dam , fund manager at London-based Hampstead Capital, which
oversees about $500 million. "They’re looking very attractive
now and I’m looking to maybe invest myself."  Lithuania’s economy may expand 1.3 percent this year, while
Estonia will probably grow 1.8 percent, the International
Monetary Fund estimated. Latvia, which suffered the biggest loss
of output last year, may contract another 1 percent, according
to the IMF.  ‘More Visible Today’  “The turnaround in the Baltic economies is even more
visible today and in combination with falling impaired loans the
Baltic operations are back in black,” SEB Chief Executive
Officer  Annika Falkengren  said today.  SEB swung to a third-quarter operating profit of 514
million kronor in the Baltic countries, compared with a loss of
2.25 billion kronor a year earlier. Profit at Swedbank’s Baltic
operations reached 531 million kronor in the quarter, compared
with a loss of 2.32 billion kronor. The bank’s loan losses in
the region, which were mainly driven by lending in Latvia,
narrowed to 327 million kronor from 3.33 billion kronor.  Nordea  posted an operating profit of 22 million euros in
the Baltic countries in the third quarter, up from 5 million
euros in the three months through June. That followed operating
losses in the region in the previous four quarters.  Swedbank has gained 31 percent in Stockholm trading this
year, making it the fourth-best performer among the 53 members
in the Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index. SEB
has advanced 19 percent, while Nordea is up 2.4 percent.  “We always see banks as the best proxy for economic
recovery,” said  Aivaras Abromavicius , a partner at Stockholm-
based East Capital asset managers. “A lot of bad loans are
returning to the banks so instead of writedowns we now see
writebacks; the positive news for some of these banks will
continue for now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  