-- Blackstone Profit Rises on Gains in Equity, Real Estate, Fund InvestmentsB
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2010-10-28T19:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/blackstone-profit-rises-on-gains-in-equity-real-estate-fund-investmentsb.html
Blackstone Group LP , the world’s
largest private-equity firm, said third-quarter profit rose 23
percent as earnings from its real estate and hedge-fund units
increased.  Profit excluding some costs increased to $339.3 million, or
30 cents a share, from $275.3 million, or 25 cents, a year
earlier, New York-based Blackstone said in a statement today.
Profit beat the 26-cent average estimate of nine analysts in a
 Bloomberg survey .  Profit in the private-equity business fell 18 percent to
$111.9 million as performance fees and allocations declined.
Chairman  Stephen Schwarzman , seeking to reduce dependence on
buyouts, has built up the firm’s hedge-fund group and is looking
to the public markets to realize more profits.  “Blackstone is trying to prove it has a robust business
that’s not all about doing the mega-cap deals,”  Marc Irizarry ,
an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in an interview
today.  Blackstone fell 18 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $13.29 at 3:22
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
dropped 57 percent since its June 2007 initial public offering.  Performance Fees  Private-equity firms pool investor money to take over
companies, financing the purchases mostly with debt, with the
intention of selling them later for a profit.  The value of Blackstone’s private-equity holdings gained 6
percent during the third quarter and real estate rose 19
percent, President  Tony James  said on a call with reporters
today.  “Private equity is still facing some challenges exiting
investments, but firms are well on their way to recognizing
performance fees,” said  Roger Freeman , an analyst with Barclays
Capital in New York who rates Blackstone shares “neutral.”  In the firm’s real estate business, profit more than
tripled to $148 million from $44.2 million.  Schwarzman, who created Blackstone in 1985 with Peter G.
Peterson, is expanding the firm’s non-private-equity businesses,
and its unit comprising credit investments and funds of hedge
funds stands as its largest by assets under management.  Profit in that business rose to $104.3 million from $81.5
million as management fees increased based on the performance of
the fund of hedge funds. Assets in the unit rose to $62.8
billion from $52.8 billion a year earlier.  “While global economic and market environments remain
fragile, we saw continued marked improvement in the carrying
values of our investment funds during the third quarter,”
Schwarzman said in the statement.  Blackstone’s total fee-earning assets under management rose
8.3 percent to $104.3 billion from $96.3 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  