-- BlackBerry Partners Will Raise $150 Million Venture Fund for BRIC Markets
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-10-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/blackberry-partners-to-raise-150-million-fund-for-bric-markets.html
BlackBerry Partners Fund, a venture-
capital firm backed by  Research In Motion Ltd. , plans to raise
at least $150 million to invest in mobile-phone software
developers in markets such as Brazil and India.  BlackBerry Partners announced plans in May for a $100
million fund focused on China, though now the firm has decided
instead to raise more capital for it and invest in a broader
range of countries including Brazil, India and Russia, said
 Kevin Talbot , co-managing partner of the firm.  Focusing just on China “would have consumed a tremendous
amount of our capital” and limited the fund’s ability to invest
outside North America, Talbot said yesterday in an interview in
Toronto, where the fund is based. “There’s innovation
percolating around the world, and there are five or six key
regions where we need to have a presence.”  While the fund may still make U.S. investments, it will
seek opportunities in Europe, Latin America and Asia, where
software developers are creating applications for local
consumers. RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, is counting on sales
of cheaper BlackBerry models like the Curve to gain an edge over
 Apple Inc. ’s pricier iPhone overseas and make up for slowing
U.S. growth.  Sales outside the U.S. climbed 93 percent last quarter from
a year earlier, while U.S. revenue slipped 2.9 percent.  App Developers  Venture-capital firms are investing more in software
developers as their applications become increasingly important
to consumers when choosing among RIM’s BlackBerry, the iPhone or
handsets based on  Google Inc. ’s Android software. RIM’s App
World features more than 10,000 consumer programs, trailing the
over 250,000 that can be downloaded from Apple’s App Store and
the more than 80,000 that Android offers.  While the firm is named for RIM’s smartphone, BlackBerry
Partners is “platform agnostic” and invests in companies that
also build apps for iPhones and Android devices to tap those
with the greatest potential, Talbot said.  “If you look at  WorldMate  for example, their application
runs on all mobile platforms today,” Talbot said, referring to
the mobile trip-planning service that is one of the firm’s
investments.  The BlackBerry name continues to attract developers, and
the fund can help those startups connect with RIM, Talbot said.  “What we’re able to do is bring these entrepreneurs into
one of the leading companies in the mobile space,” he said.
“That’s invaluable whether they’re ultimately going to build
for the BlackBerry platform or whether it’s for the perspective
on the evolution of mobile.”  Silicon Valley Office  The firm plans to open an office in Palo Alto, California,
by the end of March 2011 to explore opportunities in Silicon
Valley, home to about a third of the companies that were backed
by its original $150 million fund started in 2008, Talbot said.
The expansion comes after the merger of the original fund’s two
co-managers, RBC Venture Partners and JLA Ventures, allowing the
firm to invest in mobile technologies worldwide more
efficiently, he said.  Thomson Reuters Corp.  and Royal Bank of Canada will remain
anchor investors in the original fund and may participate in the
new one as well, along with large Canadian pension funds already
involved, he said. RIM, run by Co-Chief Executive Officers  Jim Balsillie  and  Mike Lazaridis , will likely be among the
investors.  “We have developed this strategy along with Jim
Balsillie,” Talbot said. “We’re here talking to you as the
BlackBerry Partners Fund. That obviously implies we’re going to
continue that relationship.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  