-- Blackstone Third-Quarter Profit Rises 23% as Investments Gain
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2010-10-28T12:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/blackstone-profit-rises-on-gains-in-equity-real-estate-fund-investments.html
Blackstone Group LP , the world’s
largest private-equity firm, said third-quarter profit rose 23
percent as the value of its investments in private equity, real
estate and hedge funds gained.  Profit excluding some costs increased to $339.3 million, or
30 cents a share, from $275.3 million, or 25 cents, a year
earlier, New York-based Blackstone said in a statement today.
Profit beat the 26-cent average estimate of nine analysts in a
 Bloomberg survey .  Blackstone is benefiting as the financial market recovery
boosts the value of fund investments and dealmaking starts to
rebound. One of the firm’s funds last quarter agreed to buy
power producer Dynegy Inc. for about $4.7 billion including
assumed debt. To reduce dependence on buyouts, Chairman  Stephen Schwarzman  has built up the hedge fund business and is looking
to the public markets to realize more profits.  “Private equity is still facing some challenges exiting
investments, but firms are well on their way to recognizing
performance fees,” said  Roger Freeman , an analyst with Barclays
Capital in New York who rates Blackstone shares “neutral.”  Blackstone rose to 0.6 percent to $13.47 yesterday in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The stock has dropped 57
percent since its June 2007 IPO.  Private-equity firms pool investor money to take over
companies, financing the purchases mostly with debt, with the
intention of selling them later for a profit.  Schwarzman, who created Blackstone in 1985 with Peter G.
Peterson, is expanding the firm’s non-private equity businesses,
and its unit comprising credit investments and fund of hedge
funds stands as its largest by assets under management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  