-- Boehner's Blue-Collar Roots Frame Possible Next U.S. House Speaker's Views
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-10-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/boehner-s-blue-collar-roots-frame-possible-next-u-s-house-speaker-s-views.html
John Boehner  -- the Ohio congressman
poised to be speaker if Republicans capture the U.S. House in
the Nov. 2 elections -- pumped gas, mopped floors and tended his
family’s bar to pull himself up from blue-collar roots to
success in business and politics.  “I’ve had every rotten job there ever was” and “was
grateful to have every single one,” the House  Republican leader 
told supporters at a rally this month in West Chester, near his
home about 25 miles north of Cincinnati.  Boehner, 60, the second of 12 children in a family of Roman
Catholic Democrats, put himself through college in seven years
and became a millionaire businessman. He uses his life story to
urge voters to stop President  Barack Obama ’s “job-killing
agenda” by electing Republicans, who he says will cut federal
spending, extend tax cuts, repeal the Democrats’ health-care law
and create a more business-friendly environment.  “Whether you push a mop, run a backhoe, lay shingles, tend
bar,” Americans “take pride in our work,” Boehner said at the
West Chester rally. The midterm elections are about “one issue,
jobs,” that were “promised by the current administration but
never delivered,” he said.  The values of hard work and self-reliance are the source of
Boehner’s political philosophy of getting government out of the
way of entrepreneurs. He says his experience in running a small
business shaped his view that politicians have “no
understanding of the private sector.”  Still Unknown  Boehner has worked largely behind the scenes with a
tactical sense for organizing the House Republican caucus; only
in the past year has he become a more publicly visible leader.
Many Americans haven’t formed an opinion of him, a Bloomberg
poll this month showed.  He was first elected to Congress, representing southwestern
Ohio’s  8th District , in 1990 and was named majority leader in
2006. After Democrats took control of the House in that year’s
elections, he became minority leader.  Democrats say that even though Boehner comes from humble
roots, as a congressman he has become a protector of wealthy
interests and is cozy with business lobbyists. They cite his
opposition to a proposal to require corporations, unions and
trade associations to disclose their political contributions and
donors for such spending.  Boehner is “the guy that was huddling with all the
lobbyists from Wall Street” to try to defeat the financial
regulatory overhaul enacted this year, Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland told reporters at an Oct. 21 breakfast
sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor. Van Hollen is
chairman of the  Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee .  Humble Beginnings  Boehner grew up in a two-bedroom house in  Reading , a town
near Cincinnati. Until they added more rooms to their home, his
parents, Earl and Mary Ann, slept on a pull-out couch. A few
miles away is  Andy’s Café , the family-owned tavern in Carthage.  Boehner and his older brother, Bob, started sorting bottles
in the tavern when they were 8 or 9 years old. Soon they were
“mopping the floors, washing the windows on Saturday,” the
lawmaker’s brother said.  “Our parents taught us to work hard to be successful,”
Bob Boehner said. “That’s what he has done all his life.”  Boehner played football at all-boys  Archbishop Moeller  High
School under  Gerry Faust , later the head coach at the University
of Notre Dame. Faust “showed you how to dedicate yourself to
something you believed in,” said teammate Jerry Vanden Eynden.  ‘Team Player’  Faust said in an interview that he remembers Boehner as a
“team player” who “didn’t care who got the credit.” As House
Republican leader, Boehner operates “more in a team concept
than a captain concept,” said Representative  Kevin McCarthy  of
California, the party’s chief deputy whip.  Visits to the homes of more prosperous classmates led
Boehner to decide that “if I work hard and do it right, I can
have my own bedroom and my own country club membership,” said
Richard Slagle, former chief lobbyist for  AK Steel Holding Corp. 
who helped launch the lawmaker’s political career.  To put himself through  Xavier University  in Cincinnati,
Boehner held a series of jobs. “That’s what he had to do,
because our parents didn’t have extra money,” said Boehner’s
sister Linda Meineke, 51, the daytime bartender at Andy’s for 21
years, who now lives in the family home.  She said Boehner inherited his father’s gregarious nature
and his mother’s sharp tongue.  “My dad got along great with everybody” because of “how
he spoke to people, not the words he used,” Meineke said. Mrs.
Boehner “pretty much spoke her mind; John has that, too,” she
said.  Night Janitor  Boehner met his wife, Debbie, at Merrell Dow
Pharmaceuticals Inc., now part of  Sanofi-Aventis SA . He worked
at the drug manufacturer during college, starting as a night
janitor, and she was a secretary. They were married in 1973 and
have two grown daughters, Tricia and Lindsay.  After he graduated from Xavier with a business degree,
Boehner joined Nucite Sales, which sold packaging material to
Ohio manufacturers, eventually becoming its president and
purchasing the company. Boehner’s 2010 congressional financial
 disclosure  valued his holdings at as much as $6.6 million.  His “experience with the small businessman’s problems”
put him on a mission to “get government out of business” when
he was elected a state legislator in 1984, said Adam Cristo Sr.,
a retired homebuilder and longtime supporter.  Safe Seat  Boehner’s congressional seat is considered so safe that his
Democratic challenger this year,  Justin Coussoule , said he
couldn’t even get a meeting with Democratic strategists in
Washington to seek financial help from the party. In 2008
Boehner was re-elected with 68 percent of the district’s vote,
outpolling Republican presidential nominee  John McCain  of
Arizona, who took 61 percent.  When he isn’t in Washington or traveling to raise money for
Republican candidates, Boehner lives near a golf course in
 Wetherington , a gated residential community and country club in
West Chester.  Coussoule calls Boehner’s residence a metaphor for his
transformation from a working-class kid to a political power-
broker who hobnobs with corporate lobbyists on golf courses.  “He couldn’t be more out of touch with the real people
that live here,” Coussoule said.  Boehner plays golf with lobbyists and other potential
donors at places like the Ritz-Carlton Golf Resort in Naples,
Florida, where his  Freedom Project  political action committee
held two golf-related fundraisers in the last two years.  Frequent Travel  When Congress isn’t meeting, Boehner travels to raise money
-- more than $42 million at 150 political events this year,
according to the  National Republican Congressional Committee .  This leaves little time to get home. Relatives and old
friends say they see him infrequently.  Jerry Boehner, 45, who helps manage his father-in-law’s
grocery and catering business in Reading, says he sees his older
brother three or four times a year at political events.  “Usually I get about a five-minute window,” Boehner said
in an interview in his office behind the store. “You got all
this stuff racing through your head you want to say to him,” he
said. “You need some time to get it out, sometimes you don’t.”  Debbie Boehner, who sells real estate in West Chester, said
she seldom travels on the campaign trail with her husband.  “He does his thing and I kind of do mine,” she said after
the rally in West Chester. “He’s so busy” working for
candidates “to try to get back in the majority.”  If polls are correct, Republicans will gain more than the
39 net seats they need to take control of the House.  ‘Contract With America’  In 1994, Boehner was an architect of his party’s “ Contract
With America ” legislative agenda that helped the Republicans
win control of the House in that year’s elections. Boehner
became chairman of the  House Republican Conference  under Speaker
 Newt Gingrich  of Georgia.  The next year, he drew complaints from colleagues for
handing out contribution checks to members on the House floor
from lobbyists for Brown & Williamson Tobacco. “It’s not a
violation of House rules” yet “it’s a bad practice,” Boehner
said in an interview for a documentary aired on the Public
Broadcasting Service.  He was exiled from the leadership after being on the fringe
of a failed 1997 plot to remove Gingrich as speaker. Boehner
focused on legislation as a member of the House education
committee and became the panel’s chairman.  When President  George W. Bush  pushed his “No Child Left
Behind” education agenda, Boehner worked with the panel’s
ranking Democrat,  George Miller  of California, and Democratic
Senator  Edward Kennedy  of Massachusetts to craft bipartisan
legislation. He cites this as an example of his willingness to
work with the other party.  ‘Flawed Bills’  Now, Boehner says he wants House committees to play a
bigger role in writing legislation instead of turning out
“flawed bills” that wind up being rewritten by legislative
leaders.  Lawmakers should be allowed to offer more amendments on the
floor, he said in a Sept. 30 speech in Washington. “Guess
what?” he said. “You’re going to have more engaged legislators
from both sides of the aisle.”  New Jersey Democrat  Robert Andrews  said that times have
changed since Boehner was a “very inclusive” education
committee chairman. Boehner’s political “base won’t permit him
to do that now,” Andrews said.  Andrews also expressed skepticism that Boehner would carry
out a more open legislating process when he rules out tax
increases even for the highest-income Americans. “That’s not
legislating,” Andrews said.  Health-Care Law  A Republican House majority would “do everything” to keep
the health-care overhaul from going into effect, including
refusing to pay for new federal employees to implement it,
Boehner said Sept. 30.  The Republicans’ “ Pledge to America ” legislative agenda
promises to cut $100 billion in federal spending next year,
though it doesn’t say where the reductions would be made. It
also calls for permanently extending the income tax cuts enacted
in 2001 and 2003 that are set to expire at year’s end.  In a Sept. 8 speech near Cleveland, Obama said Boehner
offered “no new policies,” just proposals to “cut more taxes
for millionaires and cut more rules for corporations.”  When pressed to explain why keeping the tax cuts won’t
undermine deficit reduction, Boehner says a “healthy economy
that gets Americans working again” would trim the shortfall.  “You can’t have a healthy economy if you raise taxes on
those that you expect to reinvest in the economy and to hire
more people,” he said Sept. 30.  Pro-Business Philosophy  Boehner’s pro-business philosophy is “what 60 to 70
percent of his district believes,” said Pete Dobrozsi, a former
steel industry lobbyist who helped recruit Boehner to run for
the Ohio legislature in 1984.  Even though Boehner’s political rhetoric is often sharply
worded, “when he’s around a bunch of friends he gets pretty
teary and emotional,” said Vanden Eynden, who stayed in
Cincinnati and runs the Candle-Lite division of  Lancaster Colony
Corp. , a Columbus-based manufacturing company. He marveled at
how far his boyhood friend’s career has taken him.  “I don’t care what he says, it’s pretty glamorous,”
Vanden Eynden said. “For the little guy coming from Reading”
to “go to the places he’s been in the world, it’s pretty
amazing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 