-- BOJ May Need to Increase Asset Purchases as Yen Rises, RBS Securities Says
-- B y   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2010-10-28T21:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/boj-may-need-to-buy-more-assets-as-fed-easing-to-spur-yen-gains-rbs-says.html
Japan’s central bank may need to
boost asset purchases if the Federal Reserve’s efforts to cap
borrowing costs mean the yen rises toward fresh 15-year highs
against the dollar, according to RBS Securities Japan Ltd.  The Bank of Japan said after a policy meeting yesterday it
will purchase corporate debt with lower credit ratings than it
accepted earlier, and bring forward its next gathering by more
than a week. At the central bank’s previous meeting on Oct. 5,
it unveiled “comprehensive monetary easing” steps including a
5 trillion yen ($61 billion) fund to buy more assets.  The yen will strengthen further if the Fed embarks on a
large-scale quantitative easing, said  Junko Nishioka , chief
economist at RBS in Tokyo. “The BOJ will be forced to gradually
expand its 5 trillion yen fund as an additional easing step,”
she said.  The yen’s 14 percent surge against the dollar this year is
putting pressure on profits at exporters from Sony Corp. to
Toyota Motor Corp. and threatens to fuel deflation. Japan’s
currency traded at 81.01 per dollar as of 6:22 a.m. in Tokyo
after reaching 80.41 on Oct. 25, the strongest since April 1995.  Since the BOJ said its rule for keeping debt holdings at
less than the value of banknotes outstanding won’t apply to the
5 trillion yen fund, it will likely increase purchases of long-
term government bonds and extend the duration of its holdings,
Nishioka said.  Fed policy makers next meet on Nov. 2-3. The U.S. central
bank may purchase about $900 billion of government debt by the
end of 2011, according to Credit Suisse AG.  Bond purchases through the 5 trillion yen fund will help
the BOJ meet the government’s demand to buy more debt, said
 Masafumi Yamamoto , chief currency strategist at Barclays Bank
Plc in Tokyo.  Duration is a measure of the sensitivity of a bond’s price
to changes in interest rates. Bonds with longer durations have
greater price decreases for each incremental rise in yield than
those with shorter durations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeki Nozawa  in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  