-- Bonds Suggest China Central Bank's Inflation Battle to Heat Up
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-29T04:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/bond-prices-show-pboc-inflation-battle-just-getting-started-china-credit.html
China’s first interest-rate increase
since 2007 has done little to damp the outlook for inflation and
growth in the world’s second-biggest economy, judging from the
widening premium investors demand to hold 10-year bonds.  The  difference  between yields on benchmark debt due in 2012
and notes maturing in 2020 grew seven basis points in October to
129 after reaching a five-month high of 131 this week, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap is smaller in  Brazil ,
where the central bank slowed inflation by raising interest
rates three times this year, and  India , where policy makers
increased borrowing costs five times.  Consumer prices in China are climbing at the fastest pace
in two years, as prospects for yuan appreciation and 10 percent
economic growth attract capital from abroad. Near-zero interest
rates in the U.S. and Japan are boosting the allure of higher-
yielding assets, spurring inflation and heightening the risk of
asset bubbles in developing nations, according to China
International Capital Corp.  “Long-term debt yields are most sensitive to inflation
expectations, which are pretty strong now,” said  Tan Weisi , who
manages about 400 million yuan ($60 million) as head of Fortune
SGAM Fund Management Co.’s fixed-income department in Shanghai.
“We prefer debt due in three years or less at this stage to
limit risks.”  Inflation, Growth  Inflation rates of 4.7 percent in Brazil, 7 percent in
Russia, 9.9 percent in India and 3.6 percent in China compare
with 1.1 percent in the U.S. and 0.9 percent deflation in Japan,
government data show. Economic growth in Brazil, India and China
is about triple the U.S. pace of 3 percent.  The gap between yields on benchmark two- and 10-year bonds
in  Brazil  is 22 basis points, in  India  it’s 88 and in the  U.S. 
it’s 239.  China ’s current spread is 19 basis points higher than
the 110 average of the past five years. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  “The yield curve is steepening and has room to become
steeper as expectations for inflation have risen,” said  Xu Xiaoqing , head of fixed-income research at CICC, the nation’s
first Sino-foreign joint investment bank. “China’s economic
growth pace won’t slide further next year, and small increases
in lending rates won’t have a big impact on expansion.”  Higher Rates  He forecast the People’s Bank of China will raise its
benchmark one-year lending rate by as much as half a percentage
point in the first half of 2011 and the gap between yields on
two- and 10-year debt will widen by up to 20 basis points, or
0.20 percentage point, as inflation stays above the official 3
percent target. Consumer prices will climb a minimum 4 percent
this month, Xu said.  Inflation  averaged  3.5 percent in the third quarter, the
fastest pace in two years, and economists surveyed by Bloomberg
are predicting a 3.4 percent rate for the final three months of
2010. The yield on China’s 3.28 percent bond was little changed
today at 3.7 percent, the highest level for a benchmark 10-year
note since January, according to the National Interbank Funding
Center.  The central bank raised the one-year lending  rate  by a
quarter of a percentage point on Oct. 19 to 5.56 percent and at
least two more increases are expected by the end of next year,
according to 12 of 17 economists surveyed two days later by
Bloomberg. Reserve-requirement ratios for China’s four largest
banks were also boosted this month.  Inflows  Inflows of capital caused the yuan to strengthen 1.7
percent in September, the biggest monthly gain since a peg ended
in July 2005. It’s gained another 0.2 percent this month and
non-deliverable forwards show traders expect 3.6 percent
appreciation during the next 12 months.  The yuan rose 0.1 percent to 6.6782 a dollar today,
bringing gains this month to 0.2 percent. The rate reached
6.6404 on Oct. 15, the strongest level since 1993, after the U.S.
reported a record $28 billion trade deficit with China for
August.  The currency will end this year at 6.63 before
strengthening 4.6 percent to 6.34 in 2011, based on the median
estimates in Bloomberg surveys of analysts. China’s foreign-
exchange  reserves  jumped by $100 billion in September to a
record $2.65 trillion, the biggest gain since Bloomberg began
tracking the data in 1995.  Five-year credit-default swap contracts on the nation’s
dollar bonds fell eight basis points this month to 60, CMA
prices in New York show. Brazil’s swaps are priced at 100 basis
points, Russia’s at 143 and those for the U.S. at 38.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps typically decline as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to debt agreements. Government debt investors
usually buy the contracts to hedge against a rise in yields.  One-year interest-rate  swaps , the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase  rate , rose 17 basis
points this month to 2.36 percent. Five-year interest-rate swaps
climbed 50 basis points to 3.45 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit growth may exceed the government’s 7.5 trillion yuan
target this year,  Li Ruoyu , a researcher with the State
Information Center, wrote in an article published in yesterday’s
Shanghai Securities News newspaper. Banks extended 6.3 trillion
yuan of new loans in the nine months through September, and it
will be difficult to enforce a cap of 1.2 trillion yuan in the
fourth quarter as the economy stabilizes and demand for credit
remains strong, Li wrote.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s
largest lender by market value, said yesterday third-quarter
earnings climbed 27 percent to 42.6 billion yuan. Bank of
Communications Ltd., the nation’s fifth-biggest bank, posted a
24 percent gain in earnings for the period.  -- Belinda Cao . Editors:  James Regan ,  Sandy Hendry   To contact the Bloomberg news staff on this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 