-- SEC Accuses Boston Currency Traders of Defrauding Investors of $40 Million
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2010-10-28T18:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/boston-based-forex-traders-karlis-akyil-are-accused-in-fraud-suit-by-sec.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued two currency traders and their Boston-based
firm, claiming they defrauded investors by sending misleading
account statements while diverting funds for personal use.  Craig Karlis and Ahmet Devrim Akyil raised about $40
million from 750 investors from at least July 2007 to September
2008, falsely promising safeguards to limit losses, the SEC said
today in a suit filed at federal court in Massachusetts. The
agency, which is seeking unspecified fines and disgorgement,
also sued their defunct firm, Boston Trading and Research LLC.  Akyil, 38, and Karlis, 50, who told investors that they
would only be paid from profits, instead diverted client funds
for personal purchases including cars and a Florida home, the
SEC said. They also made losing investments in commodities that
weren’t reflected in client statements, the lawsuit said.  “The bait was the promise by Akyil and Karlis to limit
investor risk, and the switch was the theft and unauthorized
trading that cost investors 90 percent of the invested funds,”
SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in a statement.
“Many of the defrauded investors lost their retirement savings
and financial security,”  David Bergers , director of the SEC’s
Boston office, said in the statement.  Karlis and Akyil told investors that losses would be capped
at an agreed-upon percentage, typically 30 percent, of their
investment, the SEC said. When the firm collapsed in September
2008, investors were left with about 10 percent of their account
balances, the SEC said.  The U.S. Attorney’s Office for Massachusetts today unsealed
a separate indictment accusing Akyil and Karlis of criminal
violations based on the same misconduct.  Telephone calls to Jeffry Henderson, a lawyer for Karlis,
and Ian Roffman, Akyil’s attorney, weren’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 