-- PPR Third-Quarter Sales Beat Estimates on Asian Demand for Luxury Goods
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2010-10-28T16:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/bottega-veneta-owner-ppr-revenue-says-profits-rise-on-asian-luxury-sales.html
PPR SA , the French owner of the
Bottega Veneta luxury brand, said third-quarter sales rose 13
percent, beating analysts’ estimates, on increased demand for
fashion and leather goods in Asia.  Revenue from continuing operations increased to 4.46
billion euros ($6.21 billion), from 3.95 billion euros a year
earlier, Paris-based PPR said today in a statement after the
market’s close. The average of six analysts’  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg was 4.33 billion euros. Growth was 7.3 percent on a
basis that excludes acquisitions, disposals and currency shifts.  PPR aims to sell its Fnac, Redcats and Conforama retailing
businesses and use the proceeds to develop its Gucci Group
luxury division and a new sports and lifestyle unit headed by
 Puma AG . The company is exploring financing options for
Conforama, France’s second-largest furniture retailer, four
people with knowledge of the matter said Oct. 19.  “We view the upcoming transformation of PPR into a ‘pure
play’ luxury/lifestyle company as an attractive investment
opportunity,” said  Thomas Chauvet , an analyst at Citigroup Inc.
in London, in an Oct. 18 note. He recommends buying the stock.  Each of PPR’s luxury brands increased sales at least 10
percent in the quarter, Chief Executive Officer  Francois-Henri Pinault  said in the statement. The third quarter increases the
company’s confidence of a stronger full-year “operating and
financial” performance, he said.  Emerging Markets  Gucci Group’s sales in emerging markets, including the
Greater China region, rose 24 percent in the quarter. Overall,
sales at the luxury unit climbed 27 percent. That exceeded  LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA , the world’s largest maker of
luxury goods, which posted a 26 percent gain in third-quarter
sales at its fashion and leather goods unit.  Sales increased 26 percent at the Gucci brand and 42
percent at accessories label Bottega Veneta, PPR said. Revenue
climbed 19 percent at Yves Saint Laurent.  Sales of luxury goods may climb this year to the highest
level since 2007, led by demand in China and a rebound in the
U.S., according to an estimate from Bain & Co.  Sales rose 9.8 percent at Conforama and 8.4 percent at web
and mail-order retailer Redcats, PPR said. Revenue advanced 4.3
percent at Fnac, fueled by a 23 percent rise in online sales.  Sales at Puma, in which PPR holds a 71.6 percent stake,
increased 17 percent, the Herzogenaurach, Germany-based company
said Oct. 26. Revenue may grow “mid-to-high single digits” in
2010, the sporting-goods maker said at the time, raising a
previous forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 