-- Boyd Plans Bonds as Corporate Earnings Exceed Estimates: New Issue Alert
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-10-28T08:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/boyd-plans-bonds-as-corporate-earnings-exceed-estimates-new-issue-alert.html
Boyd Gaming Corp ., operator and
half-owner of the Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa in Atlantic City,
New Jersey, is marketing notes before corporate bond issuance
accelerates amid better-than-expected quarterly results.  Boyd Gaming plans to issue $500 million of eight-year
senior notes, the Las Vegas-based company said in an Oct. 26
statement distributed by PR Newswire.  Companies have issued $91.6 billion of bonds this month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Per-share earnings have
 topped estimates  at 197 of the 232 companies in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index that have reported third-quarter results since
Oct. 7, Bloomberg data show. The results suggest that issuance
may be “robust” between now and the end of the year as company
fundamentals improve, said  Tom Murphy , a money manager at
Columbia Management in Minneapolis.  “Earnings are coming in stronger than most people
anticipated,” said Murphy, who helps oversee more than $22
billion of investment-grade credit. “Based on where yields are,
where spreads are, and the overall strong tone in the market,
our expectation is that companies as they come out of earnings
season will try to get through that window before
Thanksgiving.”  The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
debt instead of Treasuries narrowed 2 basis points to 176 basis
points yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
U.S. Corporate Master index. Yields rose 4 basis points to 3.71
percent.  Companies sold $97.5 billion of debt in October 2009,
Bloomberg data show.  Travelers Debt  Travelers Cos. , the insurer added to the Dow Jones
Industrial Average in 2009, helped lead $5.38 billion of bond
sales yesterday, Bloomberg data show.  The insurer on Oct. 21 reported operating profit, which
excludes some investment results, of $1.81 a share, beating the
$1.47 average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Company fundamentals are in a pretty strong place,”
Murphy said. “Any time someone comes out and says corporate
America can’t squeeze any more cost cuts to make themselves more
efficient, that’s what it looks like they’re doing.”  Travelers sold $750 million of 5.35 percent, 30-year bonds
and $500 million of 3.9 percent, 10-year notes in an offering
boosted from $1 billion, the data show.  Georgia-Pacific LLC , the tissue-maker owned by privately
held Koch Industries Inc., issued $1.25 billion of debt in a
split-rated 10-year offering, Bloomberg data show.  Junk Spreads  Spreads on high-yield debt narrowed 6 basis points to 573
basis points yesterday, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch High Yield Master II Index. Yields dropped 1 basis point
to 7.66 percent, the lowest since May 2007. High-yield debt is
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Proceeds from Boyd Gaming’s bond sale will be used to buy
back senior subordinated notes due 2012 and to repay bank loans,
according to the company’s statement. The other half of the
Borgata is owned by MGM Resorts International, which has put it
up for sale; Boyd said this week it would not bid on that stake.  The following is a description of at least $5.69 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  OAO LUKOIL, a Russian oil producer, plans to sell dollar
bonds with a 10-year maturity, said two people familiar with the
sale. Barclays Capital, ING Groep NV and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc are managing the sale, said the person, who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t set. The company is rated
Baa2 at Moody’s and BBB- by S&P.  CODELCO, the world’s biggest copper producer, may sell as
much as $1 billion of 10-year notes, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. The company hired Deutsche Bank
AG and HSBC Holdings Plc to the offering, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. The state-
owned company led the rescue of 33 miners trapped half a mile
below Chile’s Atacama Desert.  KOREA NATIONAL OIL CORP. hired Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas
SA, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Korea
Development Bank for a benchmark sale of dollar bonds, according
to a person familiar with the transaction. The company started
marketing the debt on Oct. 27, said the person, who declined to
be identified because terms aren’t set. The company known as
KNOC said in September it plans to raise $500 million to $1
billion to fund acquisitions. KNOC is rated A1 by Moody’s and A
by S&P. A benchmark issue is typically at least $500 million.  TRANSNET LTD., South Africa’s state-owned ports, rail and
pipeline operator, said it may sell $1 billion worth of bonds in
international markets to pay for expansion. Transnet has 35.2
billion rand ($5 billion) of debt outstanding.  Not Rated  TRAVELLERS INTERNATIONAL HOTEL GROUP INC., the Philippines
casino operator owned by Alliance Global Group Inc. and Genting
Hong Kong Ltd., plans to sell $300 million of seven-year bonds
that may yield 7.125 percent, according to a person familiar
with the transaction. The company hired UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG
and Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. to help it sell the bonds, said
the person, who asked not to be identified because the details
are private.  STERICYCLE INC. plans to issue $175 million of seven-year,
3.89 percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent
debt after receiving informal commitments from 22 institutional
investors to buy the securities, it said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  High Yield  ZAO ALROSA  plans to sell 10-year bonds in dollars that may
be priced to yield about 7.5 percent to 7.75 percent, said two
people with knowledge of the sale. The notes will be sold
through Alrosa Finance SA, said the people, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set. The Russian diamond
producer is rated Ba3 by Moody’s and BB- at S&P.  QUALITY DISTRIBUTION INC. plans to sell $225 million of
second-priority senior secured eight-year notes to redeem
outstanding debt, the company said in a statement distributed by
Globe Newswire.  BOYD GAMING CORP., operator and half-owner of the Borgata
Hotel Casino & Spa in Atlantic City, New Jersey, plans to sell
$500 million of eight-year notes, the Las Vegas-based company
said in a statement distributed by PR Newswire. Proceeds will be
used to buy back senior subordinated notes due 2012 and to repay
bank loans, according to the statement.  WII COMPONENTS INC., the manufacturer of wood cabinet doors
owned by Behrman Capital LP, plans to sell $115 million of
senior secured five-year notes, the company said in an Oct. 25
statement distributed by Business Wire. The notes may be used to
help fund a tender for outstanding 10 percent senior securities
due 2012, according to the statement. S&P assigned the debt a
grade of B-, it said in a statement.  VIKING ACQUISITION INC., the Avista Capital Partners-owned
entity that’s buying Clorox Co.’s auto-care business, plans to
sell $250 million of notes to pay for the acquisition, according
to a statement from Moody’s. Moody’s assigned the senior
unsecured debt a grade of Caa1, according to the statement. S&P
rates the securities due in 2018 an equivalent CCC+, it said on
Oct. 21. Avista Capital Partners is also seeking a $300 million
term loan and a $50 million revolving credit line to help pay
for the transaction.  CARRIZO OIL & GAS, a Houston-based energy exploration and
production company, plans to sell $325 million of notes maturing
in 2018 in a private offering, it said in a statement
distributed by Marketwire. Proceeds may be used to repay bank
debt and to finance a $300 million tender offer for the
company’s 4.375 percent convertible senior notes due in June
2028, according to the statement. The debt may yield 8.75
percent to 9 percent, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set.  DUNKIN’ BRANDS INC., owner of Dunkin’ Donuts and Baskin-
Robbins restaurants, plans to sell $625 million of senior notes
and obtain a $1.35 billion senior credit line to repay
securitized debt and help fund a dividend, the company said in
an Oct. 25 statement distributed by Business Wire. The notes
will be issued through Dunkin’ Finance Corp., according to the
statement. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG will manage
the bond sale, according to a person familiar with the
negotiations, who declined to be identified because the terms
are private.  SIMMONS FOODS INC. plans to sell $250 million of second-
lien senior secured notes, according to a person familiar with
the offering. Proceeds from the debt due in 2017 may be used to
help pay for the acquisition of Menu Foods Ltd., said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  PACNET LTD., the operator of undersea phone and Internet
cables in Asia, plans to sell $300 million of five-year bonds,
according to a person familiar with the matter. Barclays Plc,
Credit Suisse Group AG, DBS Group Holdings Ltd. and Standard
Chartered Plc are managing the sale of bonds, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because the details are private.  RURAL/METRO CORP., the provider of medical transportation
and fire protection, plans to sell $200 million of senior notes
due 2018 through a private offering, the company said in an Oct.
18 statement distributed by Marketwire.  {Added Oct. 19. See  RURL US  .)  HIDILI INDUSTRY INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT LTD., the Chinese
coal mining company, plans to sell $400 million of five-year
dollar bonds, according to a person familiar with the matter,
who asked not to be identified as details are private. Moody’s
rated the debt B1 and S&P ranked it BB-, one step higher.  (Added Oct. 19. See  1393 HK  .)  FRIENDFINDER NETWORKS INC., the publisher of Penthouse
magazine, plans to sell $296 million of secured first-lien notes
due 2013, according to a note from S&P. S&P rated the debt from
the private Boca Raton, Florida-based company B.  Offerings in Pipeline  MB PETROLEUM SERVICES , a Middle East oilfield services
provider, plans to sell $350 million of bonds, according to a
banker involved in the transaction. Barclays Capital, HSBC
Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Plc are managing the issue,
which will follow investor meetings in Asia, the United Arab
Emirates, Europe and the U.S., the banker said, declining to be
identified because terms aren’t set. The notes will be
guaranteed by Mohamed Al Barwani Holding Co.  (Added Oct. 28. See website:   http://www.mbpetroleum.com  )  PTA BANK , or Eastern and Southern African Trade and
Development Bank, hired HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Bank
Group Ltd. to arrange bond investor meetings in Europe and Asia,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. The meetings
will be held in Hong Kong, Singapore, Zurich, Geneva and London,
said the people, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. The company may sell dollar bonds after the
meetings, the people said.  MAQUINARIA ESPECIALIZADA MXO TRUST , a special-purpose
company expected to provide construction machinery services to
Corporacion GEO SAB de CV, hired Banco Santander SA to arrange
bond investor meetings, according to a person with knowledge of
the sale. A dollar bond sale may follow the meetings, to be held
in London, Boston, New York and Los Angeles, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  CREDIT BANK OF MOSCOW plans to sell five-year dollar bonds,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The sale of
Reg S securities is being arranged by Commerzbank AG, ING Groep
NV and Raiffeisen Bank International, the banker said.  DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, hired Morgan
Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to manage a planned $500
million bond sale, its chief executive officer said. The
offering, announced on the Qatar Exchange website, will be
marketed to investors in the U.S., Europe and the Middle East,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in an Oct. 20 telephone interview.  SANTANDER U.K. PLC , a unit of Spain’s largest bank, plans
to sell mortgage-backed securities, according to two people
familiar with the transaction. The lender hired Barclays
Capital, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
to help its investment banking unit to arrange the transaction,
said the people, who declined to be named before the deal is
completed. The notes will be issued in dollars, pounds and euros
and sold through Holmes Master Issuer PLC Series 2010-1.  BELARUS may sell debt in the U.S. and Asia, according to
Finance Minister Andrei Kharkovets. “We will undoubtedly enter
the Asian and the American markets,” Kharkovets said in an Oct.
15 interview in Moscow, declining to comment on the timing of
possible sales.  GEORGIAN RAILWAY LLC, the former Soviet republic’s state-
owned rail company, is preparing a bond roadshow in the U.S.,
Giorgi Gagnidze, the company’s financial director, said in
comments broadcast on Rustavi-2 television.  ICICI BANK LTD., India’s second-largest lender, hired
Barclays Capital, Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG to sell as
much as $1 billion of bonds with maturities between five and 10
years, according to three people familiar with the offering.
India’s second-biggest lender is rated Ba1 by Moody’s and BBB-by
S&P.  IRVING PLACE CAPITAL may issue $250 million of senior
secured notes to help pay for its leveraged buyout of Thermadyne
Holdings Corp. and refinance the company’s debt, Thermadyne
Chief Financial Officer Steven Schumm said in an Oct. 5
interview. The company will also arrange a $60 million asset-
based revolving credit line. Jefferies Group Inc. and Royal Bank
of Canada will manage the sale of six-year bonds, Schumm said.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
has not decided on the size of the bond, he said.  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC.  is planning its first
debt offering since its bailout two years ago as the insurer
moves toward independence from the U.S. government, Chairman
Steve Miller said Sept. 29.  TURKIYE IS BANKASI AS , a Turkish bank, applied to Turkey’s
capital markets regulator to sell dollar-denominated bonds
abroad, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock Exchange.  AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said.  GATX CORP ., a Chicago-based company that leases railroad
cars and other equipment, filed a shelf registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to sell debt securities and
pass-through certificates. The debt securities may be senior or
subordinated, according to the filing.  JSW STEEL LTD , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-owned lender to
power projects, may sell as much as $300 million of bonds in
U.S. dollars, Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a
telephone interview. Rural Electrification plans to raise $500
million from debt sales in the year ending March 31, he had said
on April 16.  CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , former finance minister, said in an interview for Mlada
Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 