-- Brazil Policy Makers Still See CPI on Target Even With Jump in Food Prices
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-10-28T15:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/brazil-policy-makers-still-see-cpi-on-target-even-with-jump-in-food-prices.html
Brazil’s central bank said it still
expects  inflation  to converge to its  target  even as the cost of
food pushes consumer prices higher, according to the  minutes  of
its Oct. 19-20 meeting published today.  Policy makers said their outlook for inflation to slow to
their 4.5 percent target depends on a more moderate  expansion  of
credit and government spending next year. The central bank said
it’s ready to adjust its  monetary stance  if inflation doesn’t
slow in a “timely” manner.  The central bank’s board, led by its president,  Henrique Meirelles , voted unanimously to keep the  Selic  rate at 10.75
percent on Oct. 20, matching the  forecasts  of all 51 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. It was the bank’s second straight pause
after raising borrowing costs from a record low 8.75 percent
earlier in 2010. Policy makers said in the minutes that the full
impact of this year’s rate increases are not yet in place and
will help contain inflation ahead.  “Right now the prevailing understanding is that the
convergence of inflation to the midpoint of the target will tend
to materialize,” policy makers said. “It’s worth pointing out
that this hypothesis hinges on the fiscal and credit
trajectories with which the monetary policy committee works.”  Traders are wagering that domestic demand will force the
central bank to resume interest rate increases early next year,
according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures
contracts.  Yields on interest rate futures contracts due in January
2012, the most traded on the Sao Paulo exchange, remained
unchanged at 11.36 percent at 11:45 a.m. New York time. The real
rose 0.7 percent to 1.7100 per U.S. dollar.  Plea for Help  The minutes contained an “overt, explicit” message to the
Treasury and Brazil’s BNDES state development bank that policy
makers will be forced to raise rates if the government doesn’t
slow the pace of spending growth and curb state lending, said
 Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Banco Espirito Santo de
Investimento.  “The message is: ‘Please help me to not raise the interest
rate to a higher level. I’m not going to be able to keep on
remaining with the interest rate unchanged, unless you do your
job,’” Santos said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  Brazilians on Oct. 31 go to the polls to elect a successor
to President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva . Presidential front-
runner  Dilma Rousseff  tripled her lead over opposition rival
 Jose Serra , a Sensus poll showed yesterday. Rousseff said Oct.
25 that she will respect the need for fiscal balance and seek to
change tax rules to help exports and production if elected.  Economists split  Analysts surveyed by the central bank are divided on the
need for interest rate increases next year, policy makers said
in the minutes. Some economists see a “benign inflationary
scenario” that allows interest rates to remain unchanged, while
others show “skepticism,” forecasting that the central bank
will have to raise the Selic.  Brazil’s neutral interest rate, or the rate needed to
ensure inflation remains contained, seems to have fallen
significantly, the minutes said. According to half of the
economists surveyed by the central bank, Brazil’s neutral rate
when adjusted for inflation would be at 6.5 percent or lower.
The country’s real interest rate now stands at  6.05 percent .  Today’s minutes are “neutral” for monetary policy, and
repeat the bank’s oft-stated position that inflation is likely
to converge to its target in 2011, said  Roberto Padovani , chief
economist at Banco WestLB do Brasil.  “They believe they will have long-term rates lower than the
market consensus,” Padovani said, speaking by telephone from
Sao Paulo.  Policy makers said that deeper and more sophisticated
financial markets coupled with declining exchange rate and
inflation risk premiums appeared to have lowered the country’s
neutral interest rate. According to the board’s members, the
impact of rate increases on inflation are bigger today than in
the past.  Economic Activity  The central bank forecast in its September quarterly report
that inflation will slow to 4.6 percent by the end of next year
without the need for further interest rate increases.  The bank’s economic activity index, a proxy for gross
domestic product, showed that the economy’s expansion leveled
off in August. The seasonally adjusted economic activity index
was little changed at 139.12 points in August, compared with a
revised 139.13 points in July, the central bank said Oct. 20. In
July the index rose 0.15 percent from the previous month.  Latin America’s biggest economy will expand 7.3 percent
this year, the fastest pace in more than two decades, according
to a Sept. 30 central bank forecast.  Economists expect inflation to quicken to 5.17 percent in
the 12 months ahead, before slowing to 4.98 percent by the end
of 2011, according to the median estimated in an Oct. 22 central
bank  survey  of about 100 economists.  ‘Moderate’ Credit Growth  Credit to consumers and companies tend to keep expanding at
a “more moderate” pace, the central bank said. Domestic
economic activity will “remain favored” by the  labor market ,
the bank said.  A record low  unemployment  rate and salary increase are
fueling domestic demand.  Retail sales  rose 2 percent in August
from July, more than the median 1.6 percent gain in a Bloomberg
survey of 28 analysts.  Bank lending  rose 19.6 percent in
September from a year earlier to a record 1.61 trillion reais
($937 billion).  Consumer prices  rose 0.62 percent in the month through mid-
October, twice the pace of the previous month, led by 1.7
percent jump in food prices. The  annual  rate, as measured by the
IPCA-15 price index, jumped to 5.03 percent in mid-October from
4.57 percent a month earlier.  A government report today showed that consumer,
construction and wholesale prices rose 1.01 percent in October,
the Getulio Vargas Foundation said today. A jump in food prices
pushed the IGP-M index’s annual rate to 8.81 percent, its
highest level since December 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  