-- Brazil Libra Field May Hold 16 Billion Barrels of Oil
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   J e s s i c a   B r i c e
-- 2010-10-28T22:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/brazil-s-anp-says-offshore-libra-field-may-have-16-billion-barrels-of-oil.html
Brazil said its deep-water Libra
field may hold as much as 16 billion barrels of oil, twice
previous estimates, which would make it the biggest crude
discovery in the Americas in more than three decades.  The field in the Santos Basin off the coast of southeast
Brazil may have 7.9 billion to 16 billion barrels of oil, said
Haroldo Lima, the head of the national petroleum regulator known
as the ANP, according to the agency’s press office. The
government owns 100 percent of Libra.  “Government officials have always been excited about the
prospects for Libra,” said Christopher Garman, director for
Latin America at Washington-based researcher Eurasia Group. “The
big challenge will be how to develop all this.”  Oil reserves of 16 billion barrels would make Libra the
biggest find in the Americas since Mexico discovered Cantarell
in 1976. It would be twice as big as state-controlled Petroleo
Brasileiro SA’s nearby Tupi field, which has estimated reserves
of between 5 billion and 8 billion barrels.  Libra and Tupi, both in Brazil’s Santos Basin, are located
in a region known as the pre-salt, which runs 800 kilometers
(500 miles) off the coast, holding oil deposits beneath a layer
of salt resting as deep as 3,000 meters (9,800 feet) beneath the
ocean surface and another 5,000 meters below the seabed.  Petrobras Share-Swap  The Libra estimate is based on a study by Gaffney, Cline &
Associates, Lima said today at an event in Rio de Janeiro in
remarks confirmed by the ANP’s press office. The consulting
company was previously hired by the ANP to assess the value of 5
billion barrels of deep-water reserves in nearby fields that the
government sold to Petrobras in exchange for  stock .  Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras raised about $70 billion
last month in the world’s biggest share sale to help fund its
$224 billion, five-year investment plan, the oil industry’s
largest. Petrobras on Sept. 1 said it agreed to pay $42.5
billion in new stock for the 5 billion barrels of undeveloped
reserves, including 3.1 billion from the nearby Franco field.  Under oil regulations passed this year, Petrobras will be
the operator of all new concessions granted in the pre-salt
area.  Spain’s Repsol YPF SA also has stakes in deep-water blocks
of the Santos Basin.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA , the
Brazilian oil company controlled by billionaire Eike Batista, is
exploring shallow waters of the basin and not the pre-salt area.  The Libra discovery is “positive for everybody operating
down there,” Eric Conrads, who helps manage about $1 billion in
emerging market funds at ING Investment Management in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “That’s positive for Petrobras,
that’s positive for Repsol, that’s positive for OGX.”  Libra Plans  The ANP has said that Brazil’s government plans to keep
control of Libra as the South American nation tightens its grip
on its reserves. Pre-Sal Petroleo SA, a new state oil company,
will own at least 40 percent of Libra, Magda Chambriard, an ANP
director, said Sept. 15 in an interview. That’s on top of a
minimum 30 percent stake to be held by Petrobras, she said.  Petrobras has plunged 28 percent this year, while OGX has
gained 27 percent and Repsol rose 5.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Millard  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice in Sao Paulo at 
jbrice1@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  