-- Brookfield, Silver Standard, SouthGobi Resources: Canadian Equity Preview
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-10-29T12:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/brookfield-properties-canadian-oil-sands-trust-canadian-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have  unusual  moves in  Canadian trading .  Brookfield Properties Corp.  (BPO CT): The owner of New
York’s World Financial Center reported third-quarter funds from
operations of 32 cents a share, topping the average of 11
analyst estimates by 7.4 percent.  Canadian Oil Sands Trust  (COS-U CT): The largest owner of
the Syncrude project announced third-quarter profit of 32 cents
a unit, excluding certain items, beating the average of eight
analyst estimates by 70 percent.  Canfor Corp.  (CFP CT): The lumber producer with operations
in North America and Asia reported third-quarter earnings of 8
cents a share, excluding certain items. Analysts had forecast
profit of less than 1 cent a share, according to the average of
eight estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Domtar Corp.  (UFS CT): Canada’s largest paper producer said
it earned $4.26 a share in the third quarter, excluding certain
items, surpassing the average of 13 analyst estimates by 30
percent.  Genworth MI Canada Inc.  (MIC CT): The mortgage insurer
raised its quarterly dividend 18 percent to 26 cents a share as
of the dividend payable Dec. 1.  Silver Standard Resources Inc.  (SSO CT): The silver
explorer with operations in Latin America said it has agreed to
sell majority interests in its Snowfield and Brucejack projects
in British Columbia to Pretium Resources Inc. for C$450 million
($441 million).  SouthGobi Resources Ltd.  (SGQ CT): The coal producer that
mines in Mongolia had its rating cut to “neutral from
‘‘outperform’’ by Carol Cao, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  