-- Buy BHP Calls as Its Bid for Potash May Spur a Rally, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-10-28T17:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/buy-bhp-calls-as-potash-bid-may-spur-rally-morgan-stanley-says.html
Investors should buy bullish  BHP
Billiton Ltd.  options because the world’s biggest mining company
may rally on developments in its $40 billion hostile takeover
bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., Morgan Stanley said.  Strategists  Viktor Hjort  and  Philipp Schoenhuber 
recommended buying over-the-counter options expiring in three
months with a strike price 5 percent above the share price,
which rose 1.2 percent to A$41.99 on the Australian Stock
Exchange. Bullish contracts are attractive because the stock is
cheap compared with past valuations and options prices are
“close to historic lows,” the strategists wrote in a report.  “More clarity on the Potash bid in the coming months or a
potential return of excess capital in case of an unsuccessful
bid could boost the stock in the short term,” the Hong Kong-
based strategists wrote.  BHP made a $130-a-share bid for the world’s largest
fertilizer maker in August. Buying Potash, which rejected the
bid, would be the Melbourne-based company’s biggest takeover
since buying WMC Resources Ltd. in 2005.  Canada’s federal government is becoming more skeptical of
the proposed takeover of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash,
the Globe and Mail reported today, citing unidentified people.
BHP has “absolute confidence” in the Canadian review of the
offer and is continuing talks with the government, Ruban
Yogarajah, a London-based spokesman for the company, told
Bloomberg News today by phone, responding to the article.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves
or bet that  volatility , or stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 