-- California’s Brown Widens Lead in Race for Governor, Poll Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-10-28T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/california-s-brown-widens-lead-over-whitman-in-governor-s-race-poll-says.html
Democrat  Jerry Brown  has opened a 10
percentage-point lead over former  EBay Inc.  chief  Meg Whitman  in
the race to be California’s next governor as the campaign enters
its final days, according to a poll.  Brown led Republican Whitman 49 percent to 39 percent among
likely voters in a Field Poll released today. A month earlier,
they were tied at 41 percent each. Seven percent of those
surveyed still hadn’t decided who to support, even as Whitman
has spent at least $141.5 million of her own money on the
campaign, a U.S. record for self-funding.  “She got her name out there but the problem is that money
can only take you so far,”  Jack Pitney , who teaches politics at
Claremont McKenna College in Claremont, California, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “Money isn’t enough. You’ve got
to have a compelling personality and a compelling message.”  Brown and Whitman are vying to lead the state that accounts
for 13 percent of U.S. gross domestic product, after its worst
fiscal crisis since the Great Depression. The winner will
confront a resurgent deficit that may equal this year’s $19
billion gap and an unemployment rate at 12.4 percent in
September, the third-highest behind Nevada and Michigan.  The poll said Brown, 72, who was governor from 1975 to 1983
and is now attorney general, gained support among Latinos, women
and voters in Los Angeles County, which has more than a quarter
of the state’s population.  At the same time, the number of those surveyed who held a
negative opinion of Whitman grew to more than half.  The poll of 1,902 likely voters was conducted by telephone
Oct. 14-26, and has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.2
percentage points.  Tax Cuts  Whitman has said she wants to cut taxes, including capital
gains, and reduce regulations to create 2 million jobs. She also
has vowed to cut spending on welfare, negotiate lower pension
benefits for existing workers and put future employees into a
401(k)-like savings plan to trim state spending.  Brown says he would help create 500,000 clean-energy jobs
and would speed up permitting for wind- and solar-power plants.
He said he favors sales tax reductions for businesses that buy
manufacturing equipment, and that he would ask voters whether to
cut programs or raise taxes if lawmakers can’t agree.  “Arguably Jerry Brown would have a slightly easier time
with the state Legislature, whereas Meg Whitman might have to go
to the ballot box, but no matter who wins on Tuesday, that
person still has to deal with the same budget numbers and the
same red ink and the same political pain,” Pitney said.
“Whatever happens on election day, California is still in a
hurt locker.”  Term Limits  Current Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , a Republican, must
leave office in January because of term limits. Brown can run
again because he was first elected before the limits were
imposed in 1990.  Both candidates faced embarrassments in the past month. A
former housekeeper from Mexico claimed Whitman knew she was in
the country illegally and fired her only after deciding to run
for office. Brown used the allegation to accuse Whitman, who
advocates a crackdown on undocumented workers, of “talking from
both sides of her mouth.”  In an Oct. 12 debate, Brown apologized after an aide called
Whitman a “whore” in a leaked recording of a conversation
between Brown and his campaign staff. Whitman attacked Brown for
“insensitivity to what that word means to women.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 