-- Cameron Wins Support From Other Leaders to Limit Increase in EU's Budget
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-10-29T13:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/cameron-wins-support-from-other-leaders-to-limit-increase-in-eu-s-budget.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said he and 12 other leaders have “guaranteed” that the
increase in the European Union’s 2011 budget will be limited to
2.9 percent.  The 6.2 percent rise proposed by the European Parliament
and European Commission would be “especially unacceptable at a
time when we are having to take difficult decisions at national
level to control public expenditure,” the leaders of 13
countries including Germany, France, the U.K. and Sweden said in
a  letter  to EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  today.  ‘This is a very clear statement of intent, the 6 percent
increase is dead,” Cameron told reporters after a two-day
summit in Brussels. “What we’ve done is guarantee, with the
support of other member states that this is 2.9 percent,” he
said. “We’ve said that, we’ve signed it, that is done, and it
will be stuck to.”  EU governments voted for a  2.9 percent  budget increase
earlier this year and their negotiators are scheduled to meet
with parliamentary representatives to hammer out a compromise.
“We are clear that we cannot accept any more than this,” the
leaders’ letter said.  The EU budget of 123 billion euros ($171 billion) this year
is equal to about 1 percent of the bloc’s gross domestic
product, compared with national spending by member countries
that averaged 51 percent of domestic GDP in 2009. If the
parliament and commission do not agree to the 2.9 percent
increase, this year’s budget will be followed until they do,
Cameron said.  Agenda Bender  Cameron, who called for “a freeze or a cut” to next
year’s EU budget in an Oct. 23 Daily Mail newspaper interview,
said as he arrived at the meeting yesterday that he was
determined to discuss EU spending even though it was not on the
formal agenda.  “What we were facing was a parliament demand for 6
percent, and normally what happens is a sort of haggling between
the council and the parliament and every percentage point is
over 100 million pounds for the U.K.,” Cameron said. “We
stopped anything more than 2.9 percent. I’m not pretending it’s
a giant El Dorado of a gold mine for the British public but it
is a lot better and wouldn’t have happened without our action.”  Cameron is seeking to build alliances and set the tone for
discussions over the principles that will guide budgets between
2014 and 2020 in the EU’s seven-year budget-setting process.  Buzek Clash  He clashed with  Jerzy Buzek , the president of the European
Parliament, yesterday after Buzek addressed EU summit leaders,
Cameron’s spokesman  Steve Field  said. Buzek told Cameron that if
he refuses to back a 6 percent increase, he is anti-European, to
which Cameron replied that because he has cut budgets for police
it doesn’t make him anti-police, Field said.  The 13 EU members that signed the budget-limit letter are
Britain, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Sweden, Italy, the
Czech Republic, Denmark, Austria, Finland, Slovenia, Estonia and
Malta.  Cameron sought to head off disagreements in his coalition
government over whether there should be a referendum on any
changes to EU treaties. He emphasized that the U.K., which is
outside the 16-country euro region, will not be affected by
agreement at the summit on a rewrite of the treaties to create a
permanent debt-crisis mechanism by 2013 to prevent a repeat of
the Greek-led fiscal crisis that jolted the euro.  “The prime minister secured beyond any doubt a full
British opt-out from possible sanctions on individual member
states and established that any possible future treaty change
would not affect the U.K.,” Cameron’s office said in an e-
mailed statement.  Under the terms of the  agreement  that formed the coalition
between Cameron’s Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats there
must be a referendum on any change to European rules that
“transferred areas of power” from the U.K. to the EU.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in Brussels at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 