-- Most Canadian Stocks Rise as Gold Stocks Gain on Profit, Dollar
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-10-28T20:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/canadian-stocks-rise-on-earnings-lower-u-s-jobless-claims-barrick-gains.html
Most Canadian stocks rose, led by
gold producers, as the metal gained on a weaker U.S. dollar and
companies including Barrick Gold Corp. and Goldcorp Inc.
reported earnings that beat analyst estimates.  Goldcorp, the world’s No. 2 gold producer by market value,
advanced 4.6 percent after doubling its dividend. Potash Corp.
of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s biggest fertilizer producer by
market value, dropped 3.8 percent after the Globe and Mail
reported the Canadian government “is growing increasingly
skeptical” of BHP Billiton Ltd.’s takeover offer. Aerospace and
defense contractor MacDonald, Dettwiler & Associates Ltd.
increased 7.9 percent after its profit topped the average
analyst forecast.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  slipped 3.16
points, or less than 0.1 percent, to 12,564.09. Among S&P/TSX
stocks, 121 gained, 106 fell and seven were unchanged.  “That’s a reflection of the spectacular earnings that have
come out,” said  Jennifer Radman , who helps oversee C$1 billion
($979 million) as a money manager at Caldwell Investment
Management Ltd. in Toronto. “Major producers like Barrick,
Goldcorp, Agnico-Eagle, they have really been lagging the price
of gold. Now with earnings, it’s certainly helping the stocks
catch up.”  The S&P/TSX declined 0.8 percent in the two weeks ending
yesterday after surging 9.9 percent in the prior two months.
Gold and oil futures dropped 3.5 percent and 1.3 percent,
respectively, as the U.S. dollar rebounded on speculation the
U.S. Federal Reserve may buy fewer assets as part of a stimulus
policy, known as quantitative easing, than previously thought.  Gold Rises  Gold advanced 1.5 percent today as the U.S. dollar
retreated against all other major currencies. The currency
slumped after the Federal Reserve Bank of New York surveyed the
bond dealers and investors about the possible impact of Fed
asset purchases of up to $1 trillion.  Barrick Gold, the world’s largest producer of the metal,
gained 2.4 percent to C$48.07 after its third-quarter earnings
surpassed the average of 22 analyst estimates by 9.8 percent.
Goldcorp rose 4.6 percent to C$45.31 after raising its monthly
dividend to 3 cents a share. Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd., Canada’s
fifth-largest gold producer, rallied 6 percent to a two-year
high of C$77.23 after reporting improved production at its
Kittila mine in Finland.  Eastern Platinum Ltd., which mines in South Africa, soared
12 percent to a two-year high of C$1.78 after announcing a $100
million corporate debt facility. The financing will allow the
company to start a plan that will increase its production of
platinum-group metals to double its 2009 levels by the end of
2012, Eastplats said in a press release.  Government Review  Potash Corp. lost 3.8 percent to C$146 after the Globe and
Mail cited unnamed BHP officials as saying they fear Canada will
make extravagant demands for concessions as part of its review
of its $40 billion bid for Potash Corp. The government must
approve a purchase because BHP is a foreign company.  BHP has “absolute confidence” in the government’s review
of its offer,  Ruban Yogarajah , a spokesman for the Australian
company, said today in a telephone interview.  The  S&P/TSX Banks Index  retreated for a sixth day,
decreasing 1.1 percent.  Royal Bank of Canada, the country’s biggest lender by
assets, led the decline with a 1.5 percent loss to C$54.12. In a
note to clients,  Sumit Malhotra , an analyst at Macquarie Group
Ltd., said that during presentations from Royal Bank management
yesterday, “We got the feeling that management was
incrementally more negative on their outlook for loan growth and
net interest margin in 2011 than was previously the case.”  Toronto-Dominion Bank, Royal Bank’s largest domestic
competitor, slipped 1.1 percent to C$72.75. Bank of Montreal,
Canada’s fourth-largest bank, fell 1.2 percent to C$59.95.  Better Than Forecast  MacDonald, Dettwiler and Imax Corp. surged after reporting
earnings that beat analyst estimates.  MacDonald, Dettwiler, the maker of the robotic arm on NASA
space shuttles, increased 7.9 percent to a three-year high of
C$50.83 after its third-quarter profit topped the average
analyst estimate by 15 percent, excluding certain items.  Richard Tse , an analyst at Cormark Securities Inc., raised his rating on
the shares to “buy” from “market perform.”  Imax, the maker of giant-screen cinema projection systems,
climbed 13 percent to C$21.89, the highest in 10 years. The
company’s third-quarter earnings surpassed the average analyst
forecast by  60 percent , excluding certain items.  Missing Estimates  Technology companies Open Text Corp. and Celestica Inc.
dropped after their earnings missed analysts’ profit or revenue
estimates.  Open Text, Canada’s largest software company, lost 4.8
percent to C$44.45. The company reported “disappointing”
license revenue 16 percent below what analysts had forecast,
 Steven Li , an analyst at Raymond James Financial Inc., said in a
note to clients.  Celestica, which makes electronics for RIM among other
customers, tumbled 5.4 percent, the most in a year, to C$8.59
after reporting third-quarter profit that missed the average of
11 analyst estimates by 7.8 percent. In a conference call with
analysts, Chief Financial Officer  Paul Nicoletti  said revenue
declined from last year in part due to a drop in sales of video-
game consoles “where we chose to focus on higher-margin
opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 