-- Canada's Loonie Gains as U.S. Dollar Falls on Outlook for Federal Reserve
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-28T21:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/canada-s-dollar-posts-gains-versus-the-greenback-falls-against-euro-yen.html
Canada’s currency gained for the
first time in three days against the greenback as the U.S.
dollar weakened versus all of its 16 most-traded counterparts
while commodity prices increased.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, gained back the
0.8 percent lost during the past two days as traders speculated
the Federal Reserve will debase the U.S. currency by buying
government debt under a process known as quantitative easing.
Canada’s economy, which depends on natural resources exports, is
forecast to have grown at a faster pace in August as the central
bank reaffirmed that its monetary policy will accommodate
economic growth.  “The market is still leaning to dollar negativity, easily
giving back all the recent U.S. gains,” said  Dean Popplewell ,
an analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading firm Oanda
Corp. “The only thing that can give Canada support right now is
strength in commodities.” The Canadian dollar will follow the
U.S. dollar’s reaction to the Fed’s decision next week, he said.  The loonie appreciated 0.7 percent to C$1.0212 per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0281 yesterday.
It’s up 0.8 percent this month and up 3.1 percent this year. One
Canadian dollar buys 97.93 U.S. cents.  Technical Move  The loonie’s gains accelerated after breaking technical
levels.  “There were some stops out there at C$1.0220 and as soon
as we broke through there we ran quite quickly,” said  Firas Askari , head currency trader in Toronto at  Bank of Montreal .
“It’s a sell-the-U.S. dollar story today.” Traders place
automatic buy and sell orders, known as stops, at predetermined
prices to limit losses.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  reiterated yesterday in
testimony before legislators that the country’s economy has
“considerable” stimulus from his 1 percent benchmark interest
rate and further moves to tighten policy would be “carefully
considered.”  “The last two days of testimony from Bank of Canada
Governor Carney didn’t bring any new information, so for now
we’re still in U.S.-watching mode,”  Shaun Osborne , chief
currency strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank , wrote in a note to
clients today. “For now, it seems that the Canadian dollar will
be a slave to broader ‘buy North America’ or ‘sell North
America’ sentiment.”  Parity Play  Canada’s dollar reached parity with the greenback on Oct.
14 for the first time since April. It has weakened 1.5 percent
since then as the Bank of Canada halted interest-rate increases
on Oct. 19, citing a “weaker U.S. outlook.” Canada ships about
two thirds of its exports to the U.S.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, rose 0.7
percent, gold futures advanced 1.5 percent and copper futures
rallied 1 percent.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year note’s  yield  fell 2 basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.87 percent. The price of
the 3.5 percent security maturing in Jun 2020 rose 11 cents to
C$105.23. Canada’s government bonds have lost investors 0.4
percent this month, according to a Merrill Lynch & Co. index.  Canadian 10-year bonds yielded 18 basis points more than
their U.S. counterparts yesterday, near the narrowest gap in
almost three months and down from as much as 37 basis points on
Oct. 7. Longer-term bond prices are falling faster in the U.S.
than in Canada, pushing yields up more quickly. The 30-year U.S.
Treasury yield fell 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
4.03 percent.  “The big clue the market is looking at for QE is the U.S.
yields,” said  Steve Butler , director of foreign-exchange
trading in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit.
“Yields paring back gains which has taken the sting out of the
dollar.”  Canada’s  gross domestic product  increased 0.3 percent in
August, after a 0.1 percent drop in July, according to the
median of 24 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. Statistics
Canada releases the data tomorrow in Ottawa.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.netabennett wn:LINK>23@bloomberg.net