-- Canadian Companies Plan to Lobby Against Liberal Plan to Cancel Tax Cuts
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-28T19:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/canadian-companies-plan-to-lobby-against-liberal-plan-to-cancel-tax-cuts.html
Canada’s largest business group will
step up its lobbying campaign against opposition leader  Michael Ignatieff ’s plan to cancel corporate tax cuts, saying it
threatens the investment needed to carry an economic recovery.  Canadian Chamber of Commerce President  Perrin Beatty  says
his group will soon launch new advertisements and meet with
individual members of Parliament, urging them to proceed with a
tax cut scheduled for next year by Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s Conservative Party. Ignatieff says his Liberals will
cancel the cut if he wins the next election.  “It’s major concern and we are going to be very active on
that,” said Beatty, a former cabinet minister whose group
represents 192,000 companies. “Parliament must keep its word”
after approving the plan in the last two budgets, he said.  The Bank of Canada said last week the recovery will depend
more on business investment and exports as government stimulus
and consumer spending slow. Governor  Mark Carney  said Oct. 20
that investment should grow because companies need to boost
their competitiveness and can take advantage of a stronger
dollar to buy new imported machinery after cutting back during
the global recession.  The central bank’s survey of about 100 executives published
this month found the highest gauge of  investment  plans since the
question was asked in 1998.  ‘Very Damaging’  “The key issue is confidence,” Beatty said in an
interview today in Bloomberg’s Ottawa newsroom. “Business is
going to hold back making investments if they don’t know what
the rules are going to be,” adding the effects of a
cancellation would be “very damaging.”  The chamber’s board of directors includes executives from
 Research In Motion  Ltd. and  Royal Bank of Canada .  “The best thing to do for business confidence is to pay
off the deficit,”  Scott Brison , the Liberal Party’s spokesman
for finance issues, said by telephone from Halifax, Nova Scotia.
“It was Stephen Harper’s reckless spending and dumb tax policy
that put us into deficit before the downturn,” he said,
referring to a reduction in the federal sales tax.  While Harper’s government isn’t scheduled to face election
until October 2012, it lacks a  majority of seats  in the House of
Commons and needs opposition support to avoid being toppled on
so-called confidence votes such as budgets and spending bills.  No Majority  An EKOS Research Associates poll of 1,312 Canadians
published today suggests no party would win a majority now, with
the Conservative Party having the support of 34 percent of
voters, against the Liberals at 28 percent. The poll, conducted
Oct. 20-26, has a margin of error of 3 percentage points, 19
times out of 20.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has scheduled a 1.5
percentage point reduction in the corporate tax rate on Jan. 1
to 16.5 percent, and a further cut to 15 percent in 2012.
Ignatieff said Oct. 5 he would cancel the reduction and spend
C$1 billion ($981 million) to support people who care for sick
and aged family members at home.  “The best social program is a job,” said Beatty, a former
cabinet minister under Progressive Conservatives  Joe Clark  and
 Brian Mulroney  between 1979 and 1993. “The best way to create a
job is investment.”  The Liberal tax proposal has also been criticized by  Jayson Myers , president of Canadian Manufacturers & Exporters.
Manufacturers such as  Bombardier  Inc. were among the  hardest hit 
in a recession that ended last year as U.S. demand plunged.
Manufacturers have fired 21 percent of their  workforce  in the
last five years, according to Statistics Canada figures.  Canadian companies are falling further behind U.S.
companies in spending on new equipment for their workers, the
C.D. Howe Institute, a nonpartisan research group, said in a
 report  this month. Canadian spending was 79 cents for every
dollar spent by U.S. companies in 2008, down from 83 cents in
1993, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 