-- Centro Said to Seek Buyers for A$4 Billion of Australia Assets
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-10-28T06:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/centro-said-to-seek-buyers-for-4-billion-of-australian-assets-to-cut-debt.html
Centro Properties Group , the
Australian shopping-mall owner that ceded control to creditors
in 2008, is seeking buyers for more than A$4 billion ($3.9
billion) of assets, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  Centro has set a Dec. 25 deadline for indicative bids for
more than 40 properties, including the  Galleria  in Perth and  The
Glen  in Melbourne, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the plans aren’t public. Prospective buyers
will be given access to financial information on the assets in
the next few weeks, the person said.  Centro, which manages an A$18.6 billion collection of 712
shopping centers in Australia, New Zealand and the U.S., said in
July it was in talks with lenders about debt due next year. The
company had A$18.4 billion of debt as of June 30, company
filings show, as the value of its properties fell and debt costs
soared following a A$9 billion buying spree in 2006 and 2007.  “They’re still overleveraged, and there will be a lot more
transactions over time, I would suspect,” said Kui Ng, Sydney-
based head of property at Access Capital Advisers, which has
more than A$12 billion under management globally.  Andrew Scannell , a spokesman for Centro in Melbourne,
declined to comment. The Australian Financial Review reported
Centro’s plans earlier today.  Goodman Buying  Australia’s 16 listed property trusts reported combined
losses of A$19.5 billion and writedowns of A$21.7 billion in the
year to June 30, 2009, after their strategy of borrowing to fund
overseas investments backfired when property values tumbled and
borrowing costs spiked during the credit crunch. Goodman Group
today said it is offering A$1.47 billion to buy ING Industrial
Fund, as Netherlands-based parent ING Group NV seeks to divest
its real estate unit.  Centro shares jumped 6.5 percent, the most in five weeks,
to close at 16.5 Australian cents in Sydney.  Former Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Scott  borrowed to
accumulate malls, about 600 in the U.S. alone, then spun off the
centers into more than 30 syndicates, three wholesale funds, two
unlisted property funds and one listed property fund, which
Centro then managed for a fee.  This structure makes a potential sale difficult and “quite
complicated,” Ng said.  Centro in August reported a narrower fiscal full-year  loss 
after writedowns on its properties shrank. The shortfall was
A$652.7 million in the 12 months ended June 30, compared with a
loss of A$3.5 billion a year earlier. Centro wrote down A$487.9
million on its properties, down from A$2.7 billion a year
earlier.  It has  lost  more than A$6 billion in market value in the
past three years.  The company said in July it had extended and refinanced
$2.7 billion U.S. loans and started discussions with creditors
on potential restructuring options.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  