-- Chicago’s Rajan Wins $47,500 FT/Goldman Prize for ‘Fault Lines’
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2010-10-28T04:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/chicago-s-raghuram-rajan-wins-47-500-ft-goldman-prize-for-fault-lines-.html
Raghuram G. Rajan ’s “Fault Lines,”
a look at why the financial order is prone to blowing bubbles,
won the  Financial Times and Goldman Sachs Business Book of the
Year Award , defeating  Andrew Ross Sorkin  and other authors on
the financial crisis.  Rajan, a former International Monetary Fund chief economist
who teaches at the University of Chicago, overcame competition
from Sorkin’s “Too Big to Fail,”  Michael Lewis ’s “The Big
Short” and other finalists to claim the award of 30,000 pounds
($47,414) during a dinner last night at the Pierre hotel in
Manhattan.  “This is totally unexpected,” Rajan said in accepting the
award. “As I was leaving the house tonight, my wife told me to
remember to smile when the winner is announced.”  Books on the crisis were so prevalent in this year’s
contest that  Lloyd C. Blankfein , the chief executive of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. , recused himself from the judging process for
the first time since the prize was inaugurated in 2005.  Rajan, who predicted the crisis two years before it hit,
says in “Fault Lines” (Princeton) that it’s tempting to pin
the blame on bankers, governments and  homebuyers . Yet these
individuals, for all their shortcomings, were only responding to
three fault lines, he argues: domestic political pressures,
trade imbalances and incompatible financial systems. The
fractures continue to threaten the world economy, he says,
meaning “we risk going from bubble to bubble.”  “A book is always a complex product of many efforts,” he
said last night. “My years at Chicago made me what I am.”  ‘Big Short’  Each of the five other finalists received a prize of 10,000
pounds ($15,800), up from 5,000 pounds in previous years. They
included Sorkin’s “Too Big to Fail” (Allen Lane/Viking), a
fly-on-the-wall account of how Wall Street and Washington
struggled to save the financial system, and Lewis’s “The Big
Short” (Allen Lane/Norton), a look at a loner with a glass eye
and other outliers who shorted the subprime market.  The other finalists were  Sheena Iyengar ’s “The Art of
Choosing” (Little, Brown/Twelve), in which the Columbia
University professor explores how humans make choices; David
Kirkpatrick’s “The Facebook Effect” (Simon & Schuster), an
absorbing account of how  Mark Zuckerberg  built the social-
networking website; and Sebastian Mallaby’s “More Money Than
God” (Bloomsbury/Penguin Press), a storied history of hedge-
fund luminaries from  Alfred Winslow Jones  to  Ken Griffin .  The contest is meant to highlight books that offer “the
most compelling and enjoyable insight into modern business
issues.”  ‘Lords of Finance’  This year’s judges were  Lionel Barber,  editor of the
Financial Times;  Liaquat Ahamed , author of last year’s winning
book, “Lords of Finance”;  Helen Alexander , president of the
 Confederation of British Industry ;  Lynda Gratton , a professor at
London Business School;  Mario Monti , the former European Union
competition commissioner;  Jorma Ollila , chairman of  Nokia Oyj ;
and  Shriti Vadera , a former U.K. business minister who quit to
advise South Korea on its presidency of the  Group of 20  nations.  Previous winners include  Thomas Friedman’s  “The World Is
Flat”; James Kynge’s “China Shakes the World”;  William D. Cohan’s  “The Last Tycoons”; and  Mohamed El-Erian’s  “When
Markets Collide.”  To contact the writer on the story:
 James Pressley  in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 