-- Chilean Industrial Production Increases Less-Than-Forecast 3% in September
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-10-28T18:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/chilean-industrial-production-increases-less-than-forecast-3-in-september.html
Chile’s  industrial production  rose
less than expected in September as some manufacturers continue
to rebuild after the February earthquake and the peso’s gains
reduce export revenues.  Output expanded 3 percent in September from a year earlier,
the National Statistics Institute said in a report today,
compared to the 6 percent median forecast of 17 economists
 surveyed by Bloomberg . Industrial sales rose 5.9 percent, the
institute said, beating the 2 percent median forecast of five
economists. Retail sales jumped 17.7 percent and supermarket
revenue expanded 10.5 percent.  Chile’s productive capacity hasn’t fully recovered from the
February temblor, which caused an estimated $30 billion in
damage, the institute said. The gap between actual and potential
output is on track to close toward the middle of next year,
which will create inflationary pressure that concerns policy
makers at the central bank,  Matias Madrid , chief economist at
Banco Penta in Santiago, said today.  “That’s why the central bank has to continue raising
rates,” Madrid said in a telephone interview. “The bank will
do so by a quarter point so it doesn’t impact the exchange rate
too much.”  Lowest Rate  Policy makers have increased interest rates in their last
five monthly meetings. At 2.75 percent, Chile still has the
lowest  overnight lending rate  of the seven Latin American
economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Policy makers in November will boost rates by a quarter-
point for the second straight month after raising them by a
half-point in the four previous meetings, according to the
median estimate of 49 traders and investors in an Oct. 27
central bank survey. Chile’s  annual inflation rate , which was
1.9 percent in September, will reach 3.3 percent in 12 months,
the survey said. Policy makers target inflation of 3 percent.  Chile’s peso has gained 7 percent against the U.S. dollar
in the last three months, beating out the six other Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The peso strengthened
1.1 percent to 489.39 per U.S. dollar at 2:03 p.m. New York
time.  The peso’s gains have cut the cost of imports, motivating
Chileans to buy more durable consumer goods like automobiles and
domestic appliances, Madrid said. Exporters have lost revenue
because of the weak dollar, he said.  Paper and Plastic  Output of paper, plastic and metal products fell in
September, partially offsetting gains in textile, furniture and
food and beverages, the institute said. The construction
industry is showing signs of improvement after building permits
rose 10.8 percent in September from the previous year, it said.  Industrial production has grown at a slower pace than
economic activity since the 8.8-magnitude earthquake smashed
ports, roads and factories.  Industrial output  grew 6.9 percent
in August, 3.3 percent in July and 1.9 percent in the second
quarter, according to calculations made by Bloomberg based on
institute data.  Chile’s economic activity grew 6.5 percent in the second
quarter and likely exceeded 7 percent growth in the three months
through September, Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  told
lawmakers Oct. 5. The central bank is scheduled to publish
September economic output data Nov. 5.  Fastest-Growing  Chile’s economy will expand 5 percent this year and 6
percent in 2011, which would make it, along with Peru, South
America’s fastest growing in 2011, the International Monetary
Fund said in its Regional Economic Outlook published Oct. 19.  The central bank predicts growth of 5 percent to 5.5
percent in 2010 and as much as 6.5 percent in 2011, according to
its latest monetary policy report, published Sep. 8.  Internal demand has helped drive recovery and will continue
to swell next year on “expansive” financial conditions,
Inversiones Security economists  Aldo Lema  and  Cesar Guzman  said
in an Oct. 25 note to investors.  Chile’s bicentennial celebrations may have boosted
consumption in September, which had one less working day than
the previous year, the institute said.  The central bank may start to sound “a little less upbeat
on activity” after today’s industrial production data,  Jimena Zuniga , an economist at Barclays Capital in New York, said in a
note e-mailed to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  