-- India, China to Lobby UN Against Changing Carbon-Emission Rules
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2010-10-28T05:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/china-india-to-lobby-un-against-changing-carbon-emission-rules.html
China and India are working together
in an effort to persuade the United Nations not to restrict
access to the world’s biggest source of UN-certified emission-
reduction credits, an official said.  “We are cooperating with India to push the UN to get
business back as usual,” Huan Chen, deputy director general at
China Clean Development Mechanism Fund, said in an interview at
the Carbon Forum Asia 2010 conference in Singapore today. The
fund is under China’s Ministry of Finance. HFC credits and
industrial gases have made up more than 70 percent of the total
CDM supply since 2005, and are largely generated by plants in
China and India, according to data from Barclays Capital.  The United Nations and the European Union have said they
may issue new rules on the methodology of issuance and
acceptance of carbon credits for hydro-fluorocarbon (HFC)
combustion plants and other industrial gases. The European
Commission, regulator of the EU program, plans to publish an
impact assessment on offset restrictions by November and said in
May that projects related to two industrial gases -- HFC-23 and
nitrous oxide --create significant windfall profits and may be
banned after 2012. A proposed U.S. energy law bans HFC credits.  The gas is a byproduct of HCFC-22, which is used for
refrigerators and air conditioners. HFC-23 plants combust the
potent greenhouse gas that can trap 11,700 times more heat per
molecule than carbon dioxide.  CDM offsets, known as Certified Emission Reductions credits,
are currently used for compliance in the European Union’s carbon
market, the world’s biggest.  “Developing countries like China are helping developed
countries in the West meet their emission targets at a lower
cost,” said Chen, whose fund started at the end of 2007 and is
able to invest or lend as much as 2 billion yuan ($300 million)
annually for clean energy projects in China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  