-- Chinese May Have Fastest Supercomputer, Nvidia Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-28T16:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/china-s-defense-university-may-have-world-s-fastest-computer-nvidia-says.html
China’s National University of
Defense Technology may have designed the world’s fastest
supercomputer with speeds 43 percent greater than previous
systems, said  Nvidia Corp. , which supplied parts for the
machine.  The university’s Tianhe-1A set a performance record of
2.507 petaflops, or more than 2 quadrillion calculations per
second, Sumit Gupta, senior product manager for  Nvidia , said on
a conference call with reporters. That would make it faster than
any system on the global  Top 500  list of supercomputers
published in June, Gupta said.  China is investing in supercomputers to improve research
and simulation for climate modeling, genomics, alternative
energy, seismic imaging and defense. Since China began investing
in the technology in 2002, it has risen to third globally in
overall high-performance computing power, trailing the U.S. and
the European Union.  “They’ve basically recognized the fact that they need to
invest in high-performance computing to continue to advance
their technology, to continue to advance their research and
science,” Gupta said. “This is recognition that the United
States had about 50 years ago.”  175,000 Laptops  The Tianhe-1A uses 7,168 Nvidia Tesla M2050 graphics
processing units and 14,336  Intel Corp.  chips. It uses power
three times more efficiently than current supercomputers,
according to Santa Clara, California-based Nvidia, which is the
second-largest maker of graphics chips after Intel.  The supercomputer is likely to be the fastest in the world
when the official list is unveiled Nov. 15, said  Jack Dongarra ,
a computer scientist who helps maintain the rankings. He knows
of no other supercomputer that is equal to it, he said.  The system, housed at the  National Supercomputing Center  in
Tianjin, has the computing power of 175,000 laptops,  Nvidia 
said. A petaflop is a measure of a computer’s processing speed
and can be expressed as a thousand trillion, or quadrillion,
operations per second. The speed of this machine is 2.5
petaflops.  “The scientific research that is now possible with a
system of this scale is almost without limits,” Liu Guangming,
president of the center in Tianjin, said in a statement supplied
by Nvidia. “We could not be more pleased with the results.”  Officials at the supercomputing center in Tianjin and at
the computer science department of the  National University of
Defense Technology  didn’t immediately respond to requests for
comment.  Oak Ridge ‘Jaguar’  The new computer isn’t currently referenced on the websites
of either organization.  China had two of the top 10 computers on the June list of
the world’s fastest computers, compared with seven for the U.S.  The  fastest computer  on the current list is Jaguar, built
by Seattle-based Cray Inc. and installed at the Oak Ridge
National Laboratory in Tennessee. The Jaguar has clocked 1.75
petaflops in testing.  In June, China’s Nebulae, at the National Supercomputing
Center in Shenzhen, took the No. 2 spot with a measured speed of
1.271 petaflops.  The U.S. has been replaced in the top spot for the fastest
computer before, only to reclaim the position. In 2002, Japan
claimed the No. 1 position with the Earth Simulator.  The Tianhe-1A, unlike the Jaguar, relies on a combination
of U.S. processors and Chinese technology, said Dongarra, who is
the director of the innovative computing laboratory at the
University of Tennessee.  “The interconnect -- the thing which moves information
from process to process -- is Chinese based,” he said. “That
is significant in the sense that the technology is not U.S.-
led.”  The Chinese may try to replace the U.S. processors with
their own in the next few years, Dongarra said.  -- Edmond Lococo . With assistance from  Brian Womack , Adam
Satariano and  Rachael King  in San Francisco. Editors:
 Michael Tighe ,  Frank Longid   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edmond Lococo  in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  