-- China Cosco Has Profit as Container-Ship Demand Offsets Dry-Bulk Slowdown
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-10-28T14:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/china-cosco-posts-third-quarter-net-from-loss-on-rising-container-rates.html
China Cosco Holdings Co., Asia’s
largest shipping company by market value, returned to profit in
the third quarter as a rebound in global trade boosted
container-freight rates.  The company made a net income of 2.1 billion yuan ($314
million), compared with a 710 million yuan loss a year earlier,
it said in a stock exchange statement today, citing domestic
accounting standards. Sales rose 34 percent to 21.6 billion yuan.  Cosco’s container unit, China’s largest, boosted volumes 16
percent as rising consumer spending in the U.S. and European
spurred shipments of Asian-made toys, clothing and furniture.
The container pick-up offset a decline in commodities rates and
volume as China pared imports of iron ore.  “The container side benefited from peak demand in the
third quarter -- going into the fourth quarter, the numbers may
be less stellar,” said  Allen Wong , a transport analyst at Quam
Ltd. in Hong Kong. “For dry-bulk, it’s entering the fourth
quarter with higher demand from China.”  The Tianjin-based shipping line carried a total of 1.7
million 20-foot boxes in the quarter, with sales rising 85
percent to 11.6 billion yuan. On trans-pacific routes, sales
more than doubled outpacing a 33 percent jump in volumes. Asia-
Europe sales climbed 87 percent, while shipments were little
changed. The company had 149 container vessels at the end of
last month, with 39 more on order.  Evergreen, NOL  Evergreen Marine Corp. and Neptune Orient Lines Ltd.,
Asia’s two largest container lines, also had third-quarter
profits after losses a year earlier when trade slumped amid the
global recession. China Shipping Container Lines Ltd., the
nation’s second-biggest cargo-box carrier, today forecast a
full-year profit after a profitable third quarter.  Cosco’s third-quarter dry-bulk volume fell 6 percent to
68.2 million tons, according to the statement. The company had
443 vessels as of Sept. 30, with 19 more on order.  The  Baltic Dry Index , a benchmark for commodity-shipping
costs, averaged 2,353 in the quarter, 16 percent lower than a
year earlier.  Cosco, controlled by China Ocean Shipping Group Co., rose
0.5 percent to 11.21 yuan in Shanghai trading before the
announcement. It gained 1.1 percent to HK$8.97 in Hong Kong. The
stock has fallen 6.1 percent this year, compared with a 6.1
percent gain for the benchmark Hang Seng Index. The company has
a market value of $15.8 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  Cosco Pacific Ltd., Cosco’s container-terminal unit, more
than doubled third-quarter profit, the company said yesterday.
The unit, which owns or has stakes in more than 20 terminal
ventures, handled 23 percent more cargo boxes than a year
earlier in the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  