-- Clarient, GE Sued by Investor Over $580 Million Sale
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-10-28T19:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/clarient-sued-by-shareholder-over-580-million-ge-buyout.html
Clarient Co. , a provider of cancer
diagnostic equipment and services, was sued by a shareholder
seeking more money in a planned $580 million cash buyout by
 General Electric Co.   GE said Oct. 22 that it would pay $5 for each common share
and $20 for each preferred share to expand into tailored
diagnostic tests. Terms of the deal prevent Clarient from
seeking a higher bid, shareholder Bette R. Grayson Kurzweil said
yesterday in a complaint in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington.  “To the detriment of Clarient’s shareholders, the merger
agreement’s terms substantially favor GE and are calculated to
unreasonably dissuade potential suitors from making competing
offers,” lawyers for Kurzweil, the trustee under the will of
Bernard Rosenman, said in the complaint.  GE is paying a premium of 43 percent for Aliso Viejo,
California-based Clarient, based on the 20-day period before the
acquisition was announced.  During the past decade, the average such premium for
acquisitions in the biotechnology, diagnostic-imaging and
diagnostic-kit industries was 35 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We intend to defend against these litigation matters
vigorously,”  Matt Clawson , a Clarient spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement. “We are confident that Clarient and its board
of directors complied with their fiduciary duties to the
stockholders.”  Aleisia Gibson, a spokeswoman for Fairfield, Connecticut-
based GE, declined to comment.  The complaint names both Clarient and GE as defendants.
Kurzweil is seeking a court order blocking the purchase and
unspecified damages.  The case is Kurzweil v. Clarient Inc., CA5932, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophia Pearson  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 