-- Clarin Jumps on Speculation Kirchner Death Will Ease Political `Conflicts'
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-28T20:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/clarin-jumps-on-speculation-kirchner-death-will-ease-political-conflicts-.html
Grupo Clarin SA  rose the most in
more than a year in Buenos Aires on speculation that the death
of Argentina’s ex-President  Nestor Kirchner  may signal the end
of the media company’s conflicts with the government.  Clarin climbed 22 percent to 17.30 pesos, the biggest gain
since June 29, 2009. Argentina’s Merval index rose 1.2 percent
to a record 2,954.86.  “Clarin’s stock had become too risky for local and foreign
investors due to its conflicts with the government,”  Rafael Aldazabal , president of brokerage Aldazabal y Cia. said from
Buenos Aires. “Investors are betting that this is changing
although the reaction may have been excessive.”  Kirchner, who publicly referred to Clarin as “the
monopoly,” died of a heart attack yesterday after handing power
to his wife,  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  in 2007. Clarin,
which owns the country’s biggest newspaper, became a vocal
critic of Fernandez after a 2008 farmers strike against
increased export duties, Aldazabal said. Since then, the
government promoted a law that sets limits on media ownership,
forcing news companies to sell some assets.  Ordered Closure  Clarin is disputing a portion of the government’s media
ownership bill in courts. In August, authorities ordered the
closure of Clarin’s Internet company and a week later Fernandez
asked courts to investigate the 1976 purchase of newsprint
producer Papel Prensa SA by Clarin and two other newspapers.
Since taking office in 2007, Fernandez and her late husband
accused Clarin of bias in the coverage of their policies.  Stock trading resumed in Argentina today after yesterday’s
public holiday when Argentine companies rallied in New York. The
MSCI Argentina index retreated as much as 3.6 percent after
rising as much as 13 percent yesterday.  “The market is reacting to the behavior of American
depositary receipts on Wall Street yesterday after the local
holiday,”  Mariano Kruskevich , an analyst at SBS Sociedad de
Bolsa SA, said by telephone from Buenos Aires. “ADRs did show a
pullback yesterday later in the session, and today the local
market will show a summarized version of both days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduardo Thomson  in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  