-- Clinton Calls on China to Clarify Rare Earth Policy as Asia Tour Starts
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-10-28T15:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/clinton-calls-on-china-to-clarify-rare-earth-policy-as-asia-tour-starts.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called on China to clarify its policy on rare earth
minerals after reports the Asian country curbed its exports to
the U.S., Japan and Europe.  “I would welcome any clarification of their policy and
hope that it means trade and commerce around these important
materials will continue unabated and without any interference,”
Clinton said at a press conference late yesterday in Honolulu
with Japanese Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara .  China, the source of more than 90 percent of the world’s
rare earths, in July reduced its second-half export quota for
the minerals used in hybrid vehicles and weapons systems.
Chinese customs officials are also further restricting
shipments, according to industry participants and Japanese
lawmakers. Maehara reiterated that Japan must diversify its
supply source.  “Even if this problem did not exist, for 97 percent of
these resources to come from China is certainly not
appropriate,” he said. Clinton said the “entire world” has to
seek alternate supplies of the metals.  Asked if she planned to raise the rare earth issue in her
Oct. 30 meeting with Chinese State Councilor  Dai Bingguo  on the
island of Hainan, Clinton said the meeting would focus on
President  Hu Jintao ’s January visit to Washington.  ‘Facts Are Murky’  The issue could come up when President  Barack Obama  meets
with Hu Nov. 11 at the start of a meeting among Group of 20
leaders, said  Jeff Bader , senior director for Asian affairs on
Obama’s National Security Council.  “The facts are murky” surrounding China’s actions, Bader
said at a briefing in Washington. “The goal is to ensure that
the international market functions without hindrance in ways
that satisfy the needs of major producer in the U.S. and
elsewhere.”  Clinton also said uninhabited islands in the East China Sea
at the center of a territorial dispute between Japan and China
fall within Japan’s security concerns. The U.S. remains
“committed” to its obligations to defend Japan, she said.  The two diplomats spent two hours discussing regional
security issues, sanctions against Iran for its nuclear program,
reconstruction work in Afghanistan and coordinating the agenda
for the  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation  meetings in Japan next
month and in the U.S. in 2011.  Alliance  “We have an unforgiving agenda, one that will take all of
the strength of our deep and abiding friendship,” Clinton said
in prepared remarks. She described the U.S.-Japan alliance as
“the cornerstone of American strategic engagement in the Asia-
Pacific.”  The discussion “was very good not just for the United
States but for the stability and development of the region as a
whole,” Maehara said.  Clinton is on a two-week Asia-Pacific tour to build on the
Obama administration’s push to raise the U.S. profile in the
region and build up multilateral institutions. She will address
those themes in a policy speech later today.  Clinton’s trip, her sixth to the region as secretary of
state, includes stops in Vietnam, Malaysia, Cambodia, Australia,
New Zealand, energy-rich Papua New Guinea as well as China. In
Vietnam, she will represent the U.S. at the East Asian Summit, a
trade bloc the U.S. will fully join in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Honolulu at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin in Tokyo at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  