-- Clinton Pursues Stronger U.S. Role in Asia, China Cooperation
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-10-28T20:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/clinton-pursues-stronger-u-s-role-in-asia-china-cooperation.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said the U.S. is intent on strengthening American leadership in
Asia and the Pacific and called for greater cooperation with
China on regional challenges.  In a speech the State Department billed as a major
statement on U.S. policy, Clinton said fast-paced economic and
social change in the region is creating “a future in which the
United States must lead.”  “If consequential security, political and economic issues
are being discussed, and if they involve our interests, then we
will seek a seat at the table,” she said.  Clinton outlined a plan of “forward-deployed” diplomacy
throughout Asia, involving work on economic issues, bolstering
regional security and promoting democracy, goals she said the
U.S. will pursue over decades.  Her assertion of U.S. leadership comes as China is acting
to expand its territorial interests and exercise its economic
clout. Those who see the U.S.-China relationship as
fundamentally at odds, though, are mistaken, Clinton said.  “They apply a zero-sum calculation to our relationship, so
whenever one of us succeeds, the other must fail,” she said.
“But that is not our view. In the 21st century, it is not in
anyone’s interest for the United States and China to see each
other as adversaries.”  As China takes on a larger role in the region, Clinton
called on its leaders to work with the U.S. on a series of
issues that are sources of friction between the two countries.  North Korea  China should work with the U.S. to craft a more effective
approach to dealing with North Korea’s nuclear program and to
press the reclusive nation to rebuild ties with South Korea,
Clinton said. China is North Korea’s closest ally.  She called on China to ensure effective implementation of
global sanctions meant to prevent Iran from pursuing its nuclear
ambitions. Clinton called for greater cooperation on climate
change and military matters “to build trust and establish rules
of the road as our militaries operate in greater proximity.”  She urged China to create a better business and trade
environment. “On currency and trade, the United States seeks
responsible policy adjustments that have been clearly
articulated” by Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , along with
“a better climate for American businesses, products and
intellectual property in China,” Clinton said.  Yesterday, in an appearance with Japanese Foreign Minister
 Seiji Maehara , Clinton called on China to clarify its policy on
rare earth minerals after reports the Asian country curbed its
exports to the U.S., Japan and Europe. The minerals are used in
batteries and in hybrid cars.  Rare Earth  China, the source of more than 90 percent of the world’s
rare earths, in July reduced its second-half export quota for
the minerals used in hybrid vehicles and weapons systems.
Chinese customs officials are also further restricting
shipments, according to industry participants and Japanese
lawmakers.  Clinton didn’t mention the dispute in today’s speech.  She did raise the issue of tensions over China’s
territorial claims in the South China Sea, saying she was
“encouraged by China’s recent steps to enter discussions with
ASEAN about a more formal binding code of conduct” in the area,
where some islands are claimed by China and Japan.  While the U.S. has pressed for countries with claims to the
South China Sea to work through multilateral institutions, China
has insisted on settling the disputes bilaterally.  Two-Week Tour  Clinton started a two-week tour with stops in Vietnam,
Malaysia, Cambodia, Australia, New Zealand and energy-rich Papua
New Guinea, her longest trip since taking office. In Vietnam,
she will represent the U.S. at the East Asian Summit.  She noted that her itinerary complements the route that
President  Barack Obama  will take when he leaves next week for
India, Indonesia, Japan, and South Korea.  “Together, we will cover a significant portion of this
vital region at a pivotal moment after nearly two years of
intensive engagement,” Clinton said. At every stop, she said
Obama and his top diplomat will work “to sustain and strengthen
America’s leadership in the Asia-Pacific region and to improve
security, heighten prosperity and promote our values.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Honolulu at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  