-- Cnooc's Revenue Surges 64% as Output, Oil Prices Advance in Third Quarter
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-28T08:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/cnooc-s-revenue-surges-64-on-acquisitions-higher-oil-production-prices.html
Cnooc Ltd. , China’s biggest offshore
oil producer, posted a 64 percent increase in third-quarter
revenue as the company stepped up acquisitions and output to
gain from higher crude prices.  Sales rose to 38.91 billion yuan ($5.8 billion), from 23.76
billion yuan a year earlier, Cnooc said in a statement to the
Hong Kong stock exchange today. The Beijing-based company, which
gets almost all of its  revenue  from oil and gas production,
doesn’t report net income for the third quarter.  Cnooc expects to exceed its production target this year as
the company starts new oil and gas fields off the Chinese coast
and invests in assets in Argentina and the U.S. Crude prices in
New York gained 12 percent in the third quarter, helping rival
PetroChina Co. to beat analysts’ profit estimates.  “The company has produced some very strong output
numbers and I’m sure it’ll meet its annual targets,” said  Kim- Chong Tan , an analyst at Yuanta Securities Hong Kong Co. “It’s
easily outperformed the other Chinese oil majors recently in
terms of production and profit.”  Cnooc said production may reach 329 million barrels of oil
equivalent this year, surpassing its target of as much as 290
million barrels.  Cnooc plans to drive its future growth with overseas
acquisitions and discoveries at home. The energy producer said
this month it will pay $1.08 billion for a one-third stake in
Chesapeake Energy Corp.’s Eagle Ford shale-gas project in Texas,
in the biggest acquisition of a U.S. oil and gas asset by a
Chinese company. In March, Cnooc agreed to buy a 50 percent
stake in Argentine oil producer Bridas Corp. for $3.1 billion.  Overseas Acquistions  Other potential deals include a $5 billion joint bid with
Ghana National Petroleum Corp. to buy Kosmos Energy LLC’s assets
in the West African country, three people with knowledge of the
matter said this month. Cnooc and China Petrochemical Corp. may
offer at least $7 billion for Brazil oil assets and a stake in
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, two people with knowledge
of the matter said in September.  Cnooc’s first-half profit more than doubled to 25.99
billion yuan as output surged, the state-controlled energy
producer said on Aug. 19.  The unit of China National Offshore Oil Corp. plans to
invest $50 billion by 2020 in deepwater projects in the South
China Sea to acquire 3 billion barrels of oil equivalent in
reserves, Vice President  Zhou Shouwei  said in August.  China’s oil demand is expected to reach 11.63 million
barrels a day by 2015, from 9.16 million barrels a day this year,
the International Energy Agency said in June.  -- John Duce  and  Wang Ying . Editors:  Ryan Woo , Amit Prakash.  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net ;
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 