-- Cnooc Eyes `Plenteous Harvest' on Oil Demand; Sinopec Net Rises
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-29T02:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/cnooc-s-revenue-surges-64-as-output-oil-prices-advance-in-third-quarter.html
Cnooc Ltd. , China’s biggest offshore
oil explorer, expects to reap a “plenteous harvest” this year
after stepping up acquisitions and production to gain from
higher energy prices and domestic demand.  The Beijing-based company increased its full-year output
estimate by 13 percent yesterday after third-quarter revenue
surged 64 percent. Cnooc, which didn’t report net income for the
three months, started oil and gas fields at home and said its
stake in Argentina’s Bridas Corp. helped boost overseas output.  “We would expect a plenteous harvest this year,” Chief
Executive Officer  Yang Hua  said in yesterday’s statement.
“Under the superior oil prices, the company will continuously
strive to ensure the steady growth” in production and reserves.  Cnooc has advanced 32 percent in Hong Kong trading this
year, five times the pace of the benchmark index, as investors
bet its earnings growth will be the highest among China’s
biggest energy companies. Crude prices in New York gained 12
percent in the third quarter, helping rivals PetroChina Co. and
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp.  beat profit estimates.  “Of the three results this week, Cnooc’s were
exceptionally strong,” said  Neil Beveridge , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in Hong Kong. Cnooc is “continuing a
high level of production growth off the coast of China and with
projects overseas.”  Net income  at Sinopec, as China Petroleum is known, rose 15
percent to 19.6 billion yuan ($2.9 billion) in the third quarter
from a year earlier, the company said yesterday. That surpassed
the 18.16 billion yuan mean estimate of seven analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Sinopec didn’t report revenue.  Cnooc’s revenue climbed to 38.91 billion yuan from 23.76
billion yuan a year earlier. PetroChina said on Oct. 27 third-
quarter profit gained 13 percent to 34.7 billion yuan, with
sales increasing 36 percent to 363 billion yuan.  Full-Year Profit  Sinopec has risen 8.1 percent in Hong Kong trading this
year and PetroChina 1.6 percent, while the  Hang Seng index  has
advanced 6 percent. Cnooc climbed 1.8 percent to HK$16.10 at
10:01 a.m. local time. Sinopec increased 0.4 percent to HK$7.47
and PetroChina fell 0.7 percent to HK$9.47.  Full-year profit at Cnooc may jump 61 percent to 47.5
billion yuan, according to an average estimate of 15 analysts.
That compares with forecasts of 28 percent earnings growth for
PetroChina and 1 percent for Sinopec, estimates compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Cnooc, which gets almost all of its  revenue  from oil and
gas production, has gained more from higher crude prices than
its Chinese rivals, which sell fuels at state controlled prices.  China raised prices twice so far this year, an increase of
as much as 4.6 percent in April and by 3 percent Oct. 26. Crude
futures in New York have averaged 32 percent higher this year.  Boosting Production  Cnooc said yesterday production may reach as much as 329
million barrels of oil equivalent this year, surpassing its
target of up to 290 million barrels. The company plans to drive
its growth with overseas acquisitions and domestic discoveries.  This month, Cnooc said it will pay $1.08 billion for a one-
third stake in Chesapeake Energy Corp.’s Eagle Ford shale-gas
project in Texas, in the biggest acquisition of a U.S. oil and
gas asset by a Chinese company. In March, Cnooc agreed to buy a
50 percent stake in Bridas for $3.1 billion.  Oil demand in the world’s fastest-growing major economy is
expected to reach 11.63 million barrels a day by 2015, compared
with 9.16 million barrels a day this year, the International
Energy Agency said in June.  Chinese Economy  The Chinese economy grew 9.6 percent in the third quarter,
following expansions of 10.3 percent in the second quarter and
11.9 percent in the first.  Manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in four months
in September, adding to signs that economic growth is
stabilizing even as the government curbs increases in lending
and takes steps to cool the property market. China imported a
record amount of crude oil last month to meet requirements.  Rising affluence has spurred demand for vehicles in China,
which overtook the U.S. to become the world’s biggest automobile
market last year. Vehicle sales may rise to 16 million this year,
the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said on Aug.
10, boosting its forecast from a previous estimate of 15 million.  “Oil demand in China will continue to be strong and
domestic demand for energy will drive profits at oil companies
higher,” said Qinwei Wang, an economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in London. “Even as the Chinese economy stabilizes and the
external economy slows, rising affluence in China means that
demand for oil can be sustained.”  -- John Duce  and  Wang Ying . With assistance from  Shamim Adam  in
Singapore. Editors:  Amit Prakash ,  Ryan Woo .  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net ;
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 