-- Codelco Drives Chile Dollar Debt Sales to Record With $1 Billion Offering
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2010-10-28T20:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/codelco-s-1-billion-10-year-bonds-to-propel-chile-dollar-sales-to-record.html
Codelco, the world’s biggest copper
producer, sold $1 billion in 10-year bonds, sending Chilean
dollar debt sales to a record.  The state-owned company sold the notes to yield 3.965
percent, 130 basis points more than similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries, in a transaction arranged by Deutsche Bank AG and
HSBC Holdings Plc. The 3.75 percent coupon is the lowest on a
Chilean 10-year corporate bond in dollars in at least a decade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chilean overseas bond sales accelerated after the
government in July paid 3.86 percent, the lowest yield in its
history, for its first dollar debt in six years. The copper
producer that led the rescue of 33 miners trapped below Chile’s
Atacama Desert will use proceeds to help finance a $15 billion
investment program as it fights declining output at its aging
mines amid record global demand for the metal.  “The coupons on these bonds must be the lowest Chilean
companies have paid for years,” said  Hugo Horta , partner and
head of debt capital markets at IM Trust in Santiago. “There
was very little issuance in 2008 and 2009 because the market was
practically closed, so with the market today very bullish on
Latin American credit it makes sense for these companies, many
of which are exporters that operate in dollars, to sell bonds
overseas.”  Yields Drop  The average yield on Chilean corporate bonds in dollars
dropped to 3.98 percent on Oct. 19, the lowest since JPMorgan
Chase & Co. began tracking the data for its  Chile Corporate
Blended Yield Index  at the end of 1998. It rose to 4.09 percent
yesterday.  Codelco last sold dollar bonds in January 2009. The extra
yield, or spread, investors demand to buy Codelco’s bonds due in
2019 dropped to 144 basis points today from 153 basis points a
month ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bonds
yield 3.74 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Chilean banks and companies have sold $3.3 billion of bonds
in dollars, more than in 2007 and 2008 combined, since the
government achieved the lowest yield in its history on a July
sale of $1 billion in 10-year bonds, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Codelco’s bond takes sales this year to a record
$5.7 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  JPMorgan Leads  JPMorgan leads Bloomberg’s league table for Chilean bonds
in dollars, trailed by Deutsche Bank and Banco Santander SA.
JPMorgan yesterday managed two bond sales for Corpbanca worth
$178 million with maturities of four and seven months. That
means the Codelco bond sale won’t be enough to push Deutsche
Bank to the top of Bloomberg’s league table for this year.  Codelco provided more than 100 engineers and other staff
and a budget of $15 million for the two-month mine rescue
operation. The rescue was directed by Andre Sougarret, the
manager of the El Teniente mine.  The company is fully owned by the Chilean state. President
 Sebastian Pinera  dropped a suggestion he made while campaigning
for elections last year of selling a minority stake in the
company to private investors.  Its relationship with South America’s highest-rated
government both supports its debt ratings and constrains its
cashflow, according to press releases from Moody’s Investors
Service and Standard & Poor’s. The government relies on income
from Codelco to complement tax revenue.  “Historically, Codelco has transferred its net income to
the Chilean Treasury,” Moody’s analysts  Carol Cowan  and  Brian Oak  wrote in an Oct. 26 note. “Additionally, the company pays
significant amounts in export, royalty and income taxes.
Therefore its cash flow available to cover capital expenditures
and debt repayments has been limited.”  Investment Grade  Codelco will retain its investment-grade credit rating and
there is no risk the state-owned company will take on too much
debt, Mining Minister  Laurence Golborne  told reporters in
Santiago yesterday. Chile’s credit-default swaps trade at 67
basis points, in line with France’s, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting
$10 million of debt from default for five years is equivalent to
$1,000 a year.  Codelco plans to borrow $1.8 billion to help fund the $15
billion of investment the next five years in its Andina, El
Teniente and Norte divisions in Chile as it fights declining
output at its century-old Chuquicamata mine, Chief Executive
Officer Diego Hernandez said Sept. 29.  “The local market doesn’t have enough depth,” said
 Joaquin Aguirre , head of research at brokerage Munita, Cruzat &
Claro in Santiago. “A company like Codelco that needs to issue
$1 billion or more must open itself up to foreign investors.”  To contact the reporters responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net 
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at  