-- Coinstar Profit Beats Estimates as DVD Rentals Surge
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2010-10-28T22:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/coinstar-profit-beats-analsyts-estimates-as-dvd-rentals-surge.html
Coinstar Inc. , owner of the Redbox
movie-rental kiosks, reported third-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as DVD revenue surged. The shares rose after
the company’s 2011 profit forecast also topped projections.  Profit from continuing operation rose to $21.4 million, or
66 cents a share, from $11.6 million, or 38 cents, a year
earlier. Coinstar said today in a  statement . Profit beat the 50-
cent average of seven analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The company, along with  Netflix Inc. , will continue to
profit from physical rentals of DVDs because they offer
consumers better value than video-on-demand or rentals available
through cable or satellite services, said  Michael Pachter , an
analyst at Wedbush Securities in Los Angeles who has an
“outperform” rating on Coinstar’s shares. The company plans to
expand into online service next year.  “It’s them and Netflix; they’re going to divide the
world,” Pachter said in an interview. “Because Coinstar offers
lower rental costs than VOD at slightly less convenience,
there’s a lot of room for these guys to grow.”  Sales rose 42 percent to $380.2 million, the Bellevue,
Washington-based company said, shy of the $381.8 million average
of 12 estimates. DVD revenue jumped 54 percent.  Coinstar rose $6.45, or 14 percent, to $52.71 in extended
 trading  after the results came out. The stock gained 66 cents to
$46.26 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading 
and has advanced 67 percent this year.  Taking Customers  Coinstar, with about 28,500 DVD kiosks, is picking up
customers as  Blockbuster Inc.  and Movie Gallery close stores.
Movie Gallery, based in Dothan, Alabama, filed for bankruptcy
protection in February and is liquidating. Blockbuster, the
largest movie-rental chain, also declared bankruptcy and is
closing some outlets as it seeks to restructure its debts.  This quarter, Coinstar  forecasts  revenue will rise to
between $415 million and $440 million and earnings will increase
to 79 cents to 85 cents a share. Analysts were projecting 77
cents on sales of $422.5 million, the average of eight estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  In a filing, Coinstar projected 2011 profit of $3 to $3.50
a share from continuing operations on revenue of $1.8 billion to
$1.95 billion. On that basis, the company was expected by
 analysts  to earn $2.93 a share on sales of $1.8 billion, the
average of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Digital Strategy  Coinstar plans to form a partnership in 2011 with an
existing player in digital downloads to save money on building
its own infrastructure and gain faster access to content, Chief
Executive Officer  Paul Davis  said on a conference call.  “It’s really getting down to choosing the right partner,”
said Davis, who declined to answer questions about the exact
timing of its planned digital rollout.  Investors have been waiting for Coinstar to outline a
strategy for responding to consumers’ growing preference for
downloading videos, according to  Paul Coster , a JPMorgan Chase &
Co. analyst who rates the stock “neutral.”  Netflix, which mails DVDs and streams movies, said last
week it signed up 1.93 million new subscribers in the third
quarter, raising the total to 16.9 million.  “DVD kiosk revenue opportunity will peak in 2011 owing to
loss of share of the home entertainment market to online video
services,” Coster wrote in an Oct. 25 note to investors.  Novato, Calif.-based  Sonic Solutions  provides turnkey
streaming service for retailers Best Buy Co. and Sears Holding
Corp., while online provider Amazon.com Inc. offers DVD
purchases by mail and download.  Coinstar has expanded its test of video-game rentals
through its kiosks to 4,500 locations in the Southeast,
Southwest and Midwest from 200 previously, company executives
said on the call.  Including discontinued operations in both periods, Coinstar
reported net income fell to $19.5 million, or 60 cents a share,
from $41.4 million, or $1.34, a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  