-- Colgate's Third-Quarter Profit Rises 4.9% on Asia, Africa Sales
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2010-10-28T20:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/colgate-s-third-quarter-profit-rises-4-9-on-asia-africa-sales.html
Colgate-Palmolive Co. , the world’s
largest toothpaste maker, said third-quarter profit rose 4.9
percent as sales increased in Asia and Africa.  Net income advanced to $619 million, or $1.21 a share, the
New York-based maker of Ajax cleaners and Hill’s pet food said
today in a statement. That compared with the $1.19 average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Next year, Colgate will generate “mid-single-digit” per-
share earnings growth on market-share gains in toothbrushes and
other products, Chief Executive Officer  Ian Cook  said in the
statement.  Colgate has turned to emerging markets such as India, China
and South Africa to boost sales growth, introducing such
products as Protex Clean & Pure soap and Colgate Max White
toothbrushes. Last year, Colgate generated 17 percent of its
sales in Asia and Africa.  Total third-quarter sales dropped 1.4 percent to $3.94
billion on currency fluctuations and as the company cut prices.
In the U.S.,  Colgate  and other consumer-products companies have
ramped up promotions to attract shoppers who turned to private-
label goods during the recession.  Gross margin, or the percentage of sales left after
subtracting the cost of goods, widened to 59.4 percent from 59.2
percent in the year-ago period, helped by cost savings.  New York-based Colgate fell 58 cents to $74.92 at 4:01 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
slipped 8.8 percent this year, compared with a 4.2 percent
increase for  Procter & Gamble Co .  Yesterday P&G, the world’s largest consumer-products
company, reported a first-quarter net profit of $3.08 billion,
or $1.02 a share, exceeding some analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lauren Coleman-Lochner  in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 