-- Colin Firth Swears as Queen Elizabeth’s Dad in ‘King’s Speech’
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-10-28T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/colin-firth-swears-as-queen-elizabeth-s-stammering-dad-in-king-s-speech-.html
What will Her Majesty make of this?  It’s “The King’s Speech” we’re talking about. The U.K.
movie premiered at the London Film Festival, which ended last
night.  Colin Firth , who plays  Queen Elizabeth II ’s stammering
father, is asked: What will the monarch think, watching her dad
bark out four-letter words as part of his therapy?  “It’s crossed my mind,” says the 50-year-old actor, in an
open-neck shirt and jacket, and rid of the flattened, parted
hairstyle he had in the movie.  Firth says he doubts that any profanities were uttered in
real life -- but they really worked in the story. “We weren’t
cocking a snook at anybody,” he says.  The star, an  Academy Award  nominee for his role as the
mourning lecturer in “A Single Man” (2009), dismisses the
Oscar talk around this one. While the film “wasn’t a walk in
the park by any means,” he says, he worked hard on other movies
-- and still “you get a lot of cabbage thrown at you.”  “The King’s Speech” plots Prince Albert’s reluctant
transformation into King George VI while he is being treated for
his stammer by an impertinent Australian named Lionel Logue.  The second-in-line to the throne is shown at the movie’s
start getting tongue-tied as he addresses thousands at the
British Empire Exhibition in 1925. Tens of thousands more
listen, live, to the prince’s stunned silence.  His wife Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon is played with the stiffest
of upper lips by  Helena Bonham Carter . The future  Queen Mum 
first takes him to an old-fashioned London doctor, who makes the
prince speak with marbles in his mouth. His Royal Highness spits
them out, and storms out.  Shabby Office  Elizabeth then finds Logue’s address in an ad, and takes
Albert to meet the loudmouth Australian in a shabby office.
Logue tells the prince he dares not speak until spoken to.  “Waiting for me to commence a conversation,” Albert
deadpans, “one can wait rather a long wait.”  Logue then irks the prince by calling him Bertie, and puts
him through a strict regimen of chants, hums, cheek wags, hops,
skips, and dirty words.  When King George V dies, Bertie’s brother, to whom the
throne has passed, weeps uncontrollably in their mother’s arms.
“Poor Wallis,” he says of his twice-divorced American
girlfriend. “Now I’m trapped.”  Edward VIII rules briefly. Yet he seems happier hosting
elegant dinner parties with his beloved, the slim-waisted, dark-
haired  Wallis Simpson . Soon, he abdicates, and Albert steps in.  Mirren’s Queen  The “King’s Speech” script is the work of David Seidler,
who stammered as a boy. He started researching the story a few
years ago, but was asked by the Queen Mother not to go public
with it while she was alive, as the memories were still too raw.  His script got a last-minute boost from the discovery that
Logue’s grandson had his papers, fragments of an autobiography,
and the late sovereign’s medical report.  Directed by  Tom Hooper , “The King’s Speech” surpasses
other royal movies, even  Stephen Frears ’s “The Queen,” which
owed much of its success to actress  Helen Mirren .  Asked during the festival whether he could relate to his
character, Firth recalls a recent instance of stage fright, when
he locked himself up in a toilet to rehearse a two-page
monologue at London’s  Donmar Warehouse  that he couldn’t recall.  “I went out through the fire door, and it closed,” he
says. “I had to beg to be let back in, as I’d forgotten the
pass code -- and go through the audience.”  For information on the London Film Festival, see
 http://www.bfi.org.uk/lff . “The King’s Speech” comes out in
the U.S. on Nov. 26, in Canada on Dec. 10, and in the U.K. on
Jan. 7, 2011.  ( Farah Nayeri  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 