-- Europe Economic Confidence Improves More Than Forecast
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-10-28T10:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/confidence-in-europe-s-economy-rises-more-than-forecast-on-manufacturing.html
European confidence  in the economic
outlook improved more than economists forecast to the highest in
almost three years in October, led by manufacturing sentiment.  An  index  of executive and consumer  sentiment  in the 16 euro
nations rose to 104.1 from 103.2 in September, the  European
Commission  in Brussels said in a statement today. That’s the
highest since December 2007 and exceeded economists’ forecast
for a reading of 103.5, based on the median of 26 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  European  manufacturing growth  accelerated in October and
German  business confidence  unexpectedly increased.  MAN SE , the
region’s third-largest truckmaker, today reported third-quarter
profit that beat analyst estimates. Nevertheless, the euro-
region recovery may weaken as a stronger euro and faltering
global demand hurt exports and governments cut spending.  “The unexpected rise in sentiment doesn’t signal a renewed
pickup in economic activity,” said  Aline Schuiling , an
economist at ABN Amro in Amsterdam. We see a “moderate but
ongoing expansion after a surprisingly good start to the year.”  The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
report and traded at $1.3832 as of 10:40 a.m. in London from
$1.3769 yesterday.  Peripherals  A gauge of sentiment among manufacturers rose to 0 in
October from minus 2, while  services confidence  held at 8,
today’s report showed. The index of  consumer  confidence remained
at minus 11 and a gauge of sentiment among builders rose to
minus 25 from minus 26. Gauges of hiring by manufacturers and
services companies both increased.  The report also showed a continued gap between the region’s
largest member states and the so-called peripheral nations.
Among the largest economies, France had the biggest jump in
economic sentiment in October, while German confidence also
improved. In Spain and Portugal, economic confidence worsened.  “There is still a stark divergence between sentiment in
the core and periphery,” said  Jennifer McKeown , an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “But we fear that sentiment
in the core will follow that in the periphery down as fiscal
austerity spreads and exporters suffer from weaker global
demand.”  Growth Forecast  The euro-region economy may expand 1.7 percent this year
after shrinking 4.1 percent in 2009, the International Monetary
Fund said on Oct. 6. In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, gross
domestic product will probably rise 3.3 percent, it said.  European manufacturers’ capacity utilization rose to 77.6
percent in the fourth quarter from 77.2 percent in the previous
three months, the commission said in today’s report. That’s the
highest since the fourth quarter of 2008.  BASF SE , the world’s
largest chemical maker, raised its 2010 earnings outlook
yesterday after earlier this month forecasting “good business
development” in the fourth quarter.  The European Central Bank said  today  that net demand for
business loans turned positive for the first time in more than
two years in the third quarter, led by “increased financing
needs for inventories and working capital.”  The ECB on Oct. 7 kept its  benchmark interest rate  at a
record low of 1 percent after last month extending emergency
liquidity measures for banks into 2011. It is scheduled to hold
its next policy meeting on Nov. 4 in Frankfurt.  “The European economy as a whole is now on a stable path
toward recovery,” ECB council member  Axel Weber , who also heads
Germany’s Bundesbank, said on Oct. 12. “I’m confident that the
danger of sliding back into recession is negligible.”  German Boost  The commission’s gauges measuring orders rose to minus 12
this month from minus 16 in September, while gauges of  export
orders  and output expectations also increased, today’s report
showed. Among services executives, a gauge of demand
expectations for the next three months rose to 11 from 10 and a
gauge measuring price expectations also increased.  Germany has fueled the region’s recovery as governments
from Spain to  Ireland  struggle to push down budget deficits. Its
 economy grew  2.2 percent in the second quarter, more than twice
the euro-area average and the fastest in two decades.  While the euro has depreciated 6.1 percent against the
dollar over the past year on investor concern about Europe’s
debt crisis, a weaker currency has helped boost export growth.
 L’Oreal SA , the world’s largest cosmetics maker, said on Oct. 21
that third-quarter sales increased 15 percent, more than
analysts forecast, partly because of a weaker euro.  The euro has rebounded since hitting a four-year low in
June, and is up 1.7 percent over the past month. Companies may
also struggle to maintain earnings growth as  households  restrain
spending and the global recovery cools.  Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest carmaker, said on Oct. 22
that earnings growth will probably weaken in the fourth quarter.  “It’s undoubtedly the case that activity is slowing,”
said  James Nixon , co-chief European economist at Societe
Generale SA in London. “With the euro appreciating and the
global economy weakening, the trend in confidence indicators may
be down from here with slower growth in the fourth quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  