-- ConocoPhillips Australian LNG Project Closing Gap With Rivals, Mulva Says
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-28T04:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/conocophillips-australian-lng-project-closing-gap-with-rivals-mulva-says.html
ConocoPhillips , Origin Energy Ltd.’s
partner in an Australian liquefied natural gas venture, said it
aims to make a decision to proceed with the development at about
the same time as rival projects in Queensland state.  The third-biggest U.S. oil company expects the Australian
government to approve its A$35 billion ($34 billion) project in
the next month, allowing for a final investment decision, Chief
Executive Officer  Jim Mulva  told analysts yesterday. Santos
Ltd., the Australian oil and gas producer, plans to commit to
the first phase of its Gladstone LNG venture by the end of 2010.
 BG Group Plc  intends to “conclude discussions” about a
decision on its project in 2010, it said this week.  “Over the last year or 18 months, we’ve really caught up
with everyone else,” Mulva said on a webcast. “We essentially
are all looking at FID at about the same time.”  The Australia Pacific LNG development proposed by
ConocoPhillips and Sydney-based Origin would liquefy gas
extracted from coal seams for export to Asian markets. BG and
Santos received Australian environmental approval on Oct. 22 for
their LNG projects in the northeastern state.  The Conoco and Origin venture is talking with “several
potential LNG buyers” and plans to make an announcement before
the end of the year on “the sale of two trains of LNG,”
 Clayton Reasor , vice president of corporate affairs at Houston-
based ConocoPhillips, told analysts yesterday.  Targets a ‘Stretch’  Winning state and federal approvals and signing customers
in the next 10 weeks is a “stretch,” David Leitch, an analyst
at UBS AG in Sydney, wrote in a report dated yesterday. “Given
the quality and quantity of APLNG reserves there is reason to
suggest it should proceed ahead of GLNG, but the lack of
customer news is the big obstacle for the share price.”  Deutsche Bank’s  John Hirjee  said in an Oct. 22 report that
“with APLNG yet to secure a foundation buyer, we believe there
is a risk of slippage to the development timeline.”  Origin  advanced 1.8 percent to A$16.25 at 3:00 p.m. in
Sydney. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 rose 0.8 percent.  The project found traces of contaminants in eight
exploration wells in the Surat Basin, Origin said Oct. 19. The
amount of benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylene, known as
BTEX, that the companies detected in samples was equivalent to a
half-cup full in an Olympic-sized swimming pool, Origin said.  “It’s really not having an impact with respect to
discussions with potential buyers of LNG,” Mulva said.  Total, Petronas  UBS’s Leitch said in an Oct. 20 report the APLNG coal seam
gas-to-LNG venture “stands in contrast” to the BG and  Santos 
projects, which already have customers in place.  Total SA  of France last month agreed to acquire 20 percent
of the Santos venture and to buy fuel from the development.
Malaysian partner Petroliam Nasional Bhd., known as Petronas,
also increased the amount of LNG it would buy.  BG, the U.K.’s third-largest natural gas producer, agreed
in March to sell LNG to  Tokyo Gas Co.  after a transaction to
supply fuel to China National Offshore Oil Corp.  Origin targets LNG production in the fourth quarter of
2014, the company said in an Oct. 25 presentation posted on its
website. The project is in a “strong position” to negotiate an
agreement to supply a customer with gas,  Origin  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 