-- Construction Bank May Get Less Than Maximum $11.2 Billion Sought in Offer
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-29T02:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/construction-bank-may-raise-less-than-maximum-sought-in-offer.html
China Construction Bank Corp.  may
collect less than the maximum 75 billion yuan ($11.2 billion) it
initially planned to raise in Asia’s biggest rights offer, four
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Construction Bank, the world’s second-largest lender by
market value, plans to offer existing investors 0.7 share for
each 10 held at a discount of 25 percent to 30 percent to its
Shanghai-traded  stock price , the people said yesterday,
declining to be identified as pricing hasn’t been announced.  The bank would raise about 63 billion yuan, based on the
top end of that range and yesterday’s 5.15 yuan closing price in
Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Construction
Bank will compete for investors’ cash with  Bank of China Ltd. ,
which today said it’ll raise about 60 billion yuan in a rights
offer as Chinese lenders brace for stricter capital rules.  “It would be easy for CCB to pull off the deal” with a 25
percent to 30 percent discount, said  Liu Yinghua , a Shenzhen-
based analyst at Ping An Securities Co. “The recent rally in
banking shares also provided for a good timing.”  Construction Bank fell 0.6 percent in Hong Kong at 10:30
a.m. local time, paring gains in the past month to 6.6 percent.
The Hang Seng Finance index advanced 4.9 percent in the period,
best-performing group on  Hong Kong’s benchmark .  Bank of China said today it will sell shares at 2.36 yuan
apiece in Shanghai, 34 percent below yesterday’s close.  BofA Decision  Bank of America Corp. , which owns 10.95 percent of
Construction Bank, hasn’t decided whether to invest in the offer,
a person familiar with the matter said. The Charlotte, North
Carolina-based lender would see its stake fall to 10.2 percent
if it declines to buy more stock, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Construction Bank said yesterday in an exchange filing that
it got final approval from the securities regulator for the
share sale.  Yu Baoyue , a spokesman for the Beijing-based company,
declined to comment.  “We have a longstanding relationship with CCB,” said
 Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for Bank of America. “We don’t
believe it’s appropriate to comment on future stock offerings
and whether we will participate.”  Construction Bank has climbed 10 percent this year in Hong
Kong trading while the Shanghai-traded stock has slipped 17
percent, giving the lender a market value of $220 billion as of
yesterday’s close. The planned offer price represents a discount
of as much as 43 percent to the Hong Kong stock price.  Capital Rules  China’s  five largest banks  have announced plans to raise
about $63 billion since the beginning of 2010 after last year’s
record $1.4 trillion of new  lending  weakened their finance sheet
and as the industry regulator contemplates imposing higher
minimum requirements for capital.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission said last month it
will publish an “overall framework and road map” for capital
requirements at an “appropriate time.” The watchdog may
require the nation’s “systemically important” lenders to boost
their capital adequacy ratio to as high as 15 percent by the end
of 2012, a person with knowledge of the matter said last month.  The minimum capital adequacy ratio requirement for large
banks currently stands at 11.5 percent. Construction Bank had a
ratio of 11.68 percent at the end of June.  Shanghai-based Bank of Communications Co., also known as
BoCom, in June cut the size of rights offer by 20 percent to 33
billion yuan. ICBC, the world’s biggest bank by market value,
plans to raise as much as 45 billion yuan in a rights offer,
while Bank of China Ltd. last week got final regulatory approval
to raise up to 60 billion yuan.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
51, is contending with stricter rules on consumer fees while
trying to rein in mortgage losses and fend off state probes of
the industry’s foreclosure practices at home. The largest U.S.
lender this month reported a $7.3 billion loss tied to new rules
governing consumer accounts and credit cards.  -- Luo Jun ,  Cathy Chan . With assistance from  Zhang Dingmin  in
Beijing and  David Mildenberg  in Charlotte, North Carolina.
Editors:  Philip Lagerkranser , James Gunsalus   To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6629 or
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  