-- Copper Advances as Weakening Dollar Adds to Investment Demand for Metals
-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   A n n a   S t a b l u m
-- 2010-10-28T17:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/copper-may-advance-as-weakening-dollar-fuels-investment-demand-for-metals.html
Copper rose for the fourth time in
five sessions as the dollar declined, boosting demand for metals
as alternative investments.  The greenback fell as much as 1.3 percent against a basket
of major currencies on speculation that the Federal Reserve will
buy government debt to sustain the economic recovery. The
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials gained,
led by orange juice, wheat and metals.  “We are seeing a reversal of the dollar to the downside,
and copper is rallying in the face of the dollar weakness,”
said  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at Lind-
Waldock in Chicago. “The dollar will be the proxy for commodity
markets for the next week or two.”  Copper futures for December delivery rose 1.2 cents, or 0.3
percent, to close at $3.7875 a pound at 1:31 p.m. on the Comex
in New York. Yesterday, the price reached $3.90, the highest
level for a most-active contract since July 7, 2008.  Copper has gained 3.7 percent this month and 13 percent
this year as the dollar slumped and  inventories  dropped.  Workers at Anglo American Plc and Xstrata Plc’s Collahuasi
copper mine in Chile are prepared to continue wage negotiations
after rejecting a company offer yesterday, a union official
said. Chile is the world’s largest copper-producing country.  The mine, the fourth-biggest in the world, produced 525,000
metric tons of copper last year. That’s equal to 3.2 percent of
global output, according to  Daniel Major , an analyst at RBS
Global Banking & Markets in London.  Exchange-Traded Products  BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money manager, plans to
introduce an exchange-traded product backed by copper, according
to an Oct. 26 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. JPMorgan Chase & Co. plans a similar ETP, according
to an Oct. 22 SEC filing. ETF Securities Ltd. said on Oct. 11 it
aimed to start ETPs backed by six industrial metals.  “Possible industrial action in Chile, combined with more
potential news flow surrounding the new ETFs, is underpinning
what is already a bullish sentiment,” RBS’s Major said.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months added $40, or 0.5 percent, to $8,340 a metric ton ($3.78
a pound). Tin, nickel and aluminum also gained on the LME, while
lead and zinc declined.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yi Tian  in New York at 
 Ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  