-- Copper May Drop Next Week on Stronger Dollar, Chinese Demand, Survey Shows
-- B y   A n n a   S t a b l u m
-- 2010-10-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/copper-may-drop-next-week-on-stronger-dollar-chinese-demand-survey-shows.html
Copper may fall in London as the
dollar strengthens and demand slows in China, the world’s
biggest consumer of the metal, a survey showed.  Seven of 13 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 54 percent, said the metal will drop next week.
Four predicted higher prices and two forecast little change.
Copper for delivery in three months was 0.8 percent higher for
this week at $8,397 a metric ton at 2 p.m. yesterday on the
London Metal Exchange.  The  U.S. Dollar Index , a six-currency gauge of the
greenback’s strength, was on course for a second weekly gain.
Premiums paid by Chinese buyers on top of the LME copper price
fell by a third in a week after prices rose to the highest level
in more than 27 months, Zhu Shiwei, an analyst at Yong’an
Futures Co., said Oct. 26.  “The dollar is likely to strengthen further, and Chinese
copper demand is soft at the moment,”  Dan Smith , an analyst at
Standard Chartered Plc in London, said in an e-mail.  A stronger dollar makes metals priced in the currency more
expensive in terms of other monies and erodes demand for raw
materials as an alternative investment.  The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling the majority of respondents expect
a decline. The green line shows the copper price. The survey
data shown are as of Oct. 22.  The weekly copper survey has forecast prices accurately in
52 of the past 109 weeks, or 48 percent of the time.  This week’s survey results:  Bullish : 4  Bearish : 7 Hold: 2  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 