-- Cornell Gets $80 Million for Sustainability Research
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2010-10-28T16:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/cornell-gets-80-million-from-alumnus-atkinson-for-energy-research-center.html
Cornell University received $80
million from alumnus  David R. Atkinson  and his wife, Patricia,
to create a research center for global sustainability at the
school’s main campus, in Ithaca, New York.  The money, the largest individual gift to the campus, will
make permanent a three-year pilot program that unites
researchers and professors to tackle issues related to global
energy, environmental and economic development, the university
said today in a statement.  Atkinson, 72, graduated from Cornell with a bachelor’s of
science degree in agriculture in 1960. He founded Atkinson &
Co., an investment company in Princeton, New Jersey, after
retiring in 1992 as general partner of Philadelphia-based
Miller, Anderson & Sherrerd. Researchers in the pilot program
are examining how to replace antibiotics with viruses that
infect bacteria and how to convert algae into biofuel, and
analyzing the role of government in Middle East water rights.  “My wife and I have made a commitment to make the center a
permanent, integral part of Cornell,” Atkinson, who earlier
provided $3 million to the pilot program, said in a telephone
interview. “Sustainability issues will be of increased concern
with the passage of time, and Cornell is the best university to
tackle these issues.”  The program will be renamed the David R. Atkinson Center
for a Sustainable Future. The gift aids Cornell’s effort to
raise $4 billion in a  campaign  that has garnered $3 billion
since 2006.  IBM Alliance  For the pilot effort, Cornell faculty members have worked
in partnership with  International Business Machines Corp. , the
U.S. Department of Energy, the National Science Foundation, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture and the nonprofit organization
CARE, said Frank DiSalvo, the program’s director and a Cornell
professor of chemistry.  Cornell’s investments rose 13 percent in the year ended
June 30, beating the returns at Harvard University in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, and Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut,
the two richest U.S. universities. Cornell’s long-term
investments were valued at $4.4 billion on June 30, the
university said in September.  About 20,000 graduate, undergraduate and professional
students attend Cornell. The Ivy League university was founded
in 1865 and has a medical campus in New York City.  Cornell counts among its alumni  Sanford “Sandy” Weill ,
former chairman of Citigroup Inc. in New York, and  Abby Joseph Cohen , senior investment strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Esmé E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  