-- Credit Suisse Grabs No. 1 Position in Advising Consumer M&A
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 2010-10-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/credit-suisse-s-lead-in-consumer-takeovers-helps-propel-advisory-rebound.html
Credit Suisse Group AG  jumped to No.
1 advising on consumer mergers and acquisitions this year,
putting it on pace to return to the top five dealmakers for the
first time in eight years.  The Zurich-based bank has advised on 37 consumer
transactions in 2010 valued at about $45 billion to become
fourth in all M&A this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Those takeovers include  Coca-Cola Co. ’s $12.3 billion
purchase of the North American operations of bottler  Coca-Cola
Enterprises Inc ., the biggest consumer deal of the year.  Consumer companies are making acquisitions to boost
earnings growth as they amass cash. Switzerland’s second-largest
bank benefited from retailers and consumer-goods makers
expanding into new product lines and faster-growing regions.
Buyout firms are also beginning to do more deals, such as Apax
Partners LLP’s $3 billion sale of Tommy Hilfiger BV.  “We expect the bulk of M&A activity in the consumer sector
in 2010 to continue to be dominated by bolt-ons and private
equity as well as transactions involving emerging markets,”
said  Jens Welter , who heads Credit Suisse’s consumer and retail
investment banking group for Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
 Robin Rankin  runs the group in the Americas.  Credit Suisse advised  Heineken NV  on its $7.7 billion
purchase of Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB’s beer unit in
January, the year’s second-biggest consumer deal, and  SSL
International Plc  on its $3.89 billion takeover by  Reckitt
Benckiser Group Plc  in July. The bank also advised Apax on the
sale of Tommy Hilfiger to  Phillips-Van Heusen Corp . in March.  Advisory Fees  Those deals helped Credit Suisse earn $116.8 million in
consumer M&A fees in the first nine months of 2010, trailing
 Goldman Sachs  Group Inc. by $32 million and Bank of America
Corp. by $9 million, according to Freeman & Co., which
researches investment banking. The Swiss bank earned $58.6
million on consumer deals for all of 2009 and ranked sixth,
according to Freeman.  “Credit Suisse has certainly risen overall,” said Jeffrey
Nassof, an associate at New York-based Freeman. “They’ve
advanced in the fee-based table in the first three quarters for
overall global investment banking and consumer appears to be a
key.”  Credit Suisse’s global M&A group is led by  Boon Sim , who
was appointed to the role in December after a shake-up following
a decline in advisory revenue.  Andrew Lipsky  took over U.S. M&A,
and  Giuseppe Monarchi  became head of European M&A. Credit Suisse
ranked eighth in global mergers in 2009.  Recent hires contributed to the bank’s advance this year,
Credit Suisse Chief Financial Officer  David Mathers  said.  New Recruits  Moving to fourth globally “has been a question of some
good recruits,” Mathers told journalists on an Oct. 21
conference call. “A lot of people actually wanted to join our
franchise and I think that provided us some opportunity.”  The last time Credit Suisse made the top five advisers was
2002, when it finished fifth, data show. In 2004, Credit Suisse
was 11th in global M&A following a period when about a third of
the investment bank’s workforce was cut.  Chris Young  became head of takeover defense in June and
 Lewis Steinberg  later became head of strategic advisory. Vedika
Bhandarkar was named head of the investment banking department
and Global Markets Solutions Group in India in April.  Carl-Georg Bauer-Schlichtegroll  was hired as co-head of the investment
bank’s financial institutions group for Europe, the Middle East
and Africa in May.  The total value of deals in the consumer industry this year
rose to $167 billion from about $128 billion through the same
period of 2009, according to Bloomberg data. Bloomberg defined
the industry as transactions in clothing, appliances, beverages,
home and personal care, toys, tobacco, food, sporting goods,
home furnishings, housewares, travel and leisure and retail.  Nestle, Mead Johnson  Nestle SA, the world’s largest food company, has disclosed
the most acquisitions in the consumer industry, announcing the
purchases of seven companies this year, according to Bloomberg
data. The biggest was its purchase of  Kraft Foods Inc .’s North
American frozen pizza business for $3.7 billion in January.
Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle,  PepsiCo  Inc., Kraft and other
top food makers have been stockpiling cash since 2006, setting
the stage for more deals.  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. and juice company Hansen Natural
Corp. are top candidates to be acquired, said Goldman Sachs
analysts including  Judy Hong  in an Oct. 19 report. They cited
the buyouts of companies including Alberto-Culver Co. and
American Safety Razor Co. as evidence that “deal activity in
consumer staples has picked up.”  “There really aren’t that many companies left to be
acquired, so if any of these companies find the right gem,
they’ll buy it,” said  David Winters , chief executive officer of
Wintergreen Advisers LLC, which held Nestle as one of its top 10
positions at the end of June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 