-- CSN Bond Flop May Mean Higher Yields for Cosan: Brazil Credit
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2010-10-28T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/csn-s-perpetual-bond-sale-flop-may-mean-cosan-to-pay-more-brazil-credit.html
Perpetual bonds issued by Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA, Brazil’s third-largest steelmaker, are
underperforming the country’s  debt  market after the company sold
the securities at a lower yield than some investors expected.  CSN’s bonds returned 0.3 percent since their Sept. 16 issue,
compared with a 2.4 percent  rally  in Brazilian corporate bonds,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEMBI index. Bonds sold by
similarly rated ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steelmaker,
returned 2 percent during the same period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The debt is slumping after the Rio de Janeiro-based company
boosted the size of the sale by 25 percent to $1 billion and
paid a yield of 7 percent, or 75 basis points less than
investors anticipated, according to Jefferies & Co.  Cosan SA
Industria & Comercio , the world’s largest sugar-cane processor,
and shopping mall operator  General Shopping Brazil SA  may be
forced to pay higher yields on planned offerings of perpetuals,
bonds that have no set maturity, because of the decline in CSN
notes, RBS Securities Inc. said.  “It all depends on how they want to trade in the secondary
market,” said  Bevan Rosenbloom , an analyst with RBS in Stamford,
Connecticut. “If they care, they will have to offer more than
CSN.”  Brazilian companies sold $2.48 billion of perpetual bonds
this year, an all-time high, as record-low interest rates in the
U.S., Europe and Japan sparked demand for the securities, which
offer a higher yield than fixed-maturity debt and allow
companies to repay principal at their discretion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Emerging-market corporate borrowers
sold $9.7 billion of the notes this year, more than double the
$3.9 billion issued in 2009.  ‘Aggressive’  The yield on CSN’s bonds rose 6 basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, since the company sold the notes, compared
with a decline of 30 for Brazilian corporate debt tracked by
JPMorgan’s CEMBI index.  “The yield was aggressive and the size was aggressive,”
said  Eric Ollom , chief emerging-markets strategist with
Jefferies in New York. “There’s no upside at 7 percent.”  Flavia Ferreira , a spokeswoman for CSN, didn’t return a
call and an e-mail seeking a comment.  Luz Padilla , who manages the DoubleLine Emerging Markets
Fixed Income Fund in Los Angeles and bought CSN’s bonds last
month, said there’s speculation Cosan may pay a yield of 8
percent on its perpetual offering.  “That yield doesn’t strike me as all that unattractive,”
Padilla said.  Cosan Offering  The yield on Cosan’s existing, 8.25 percent perpetual bond
was 8.16 percent yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Cosan, which hired Credit Suisse Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase
& Co. and Morgan Stanley to arrange the transaction, may sell
$300 million of bonds as soon as this week, said a person
familiar with offering who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set.  A spokesman at an outside public relations firm
representing Cosan didn’t return a call and an e-mail from
Bloomberg News seeking comment.  Cosan, which shares control of the world’s largest sugar-
cane processor with Royal Dutch Shell Plc., owns 23 sugar-cane
mills, four sugar refineries, two sugar terminals and about
4,500 service stations in Brazil. The Barra Bonita-based company
transferred $2.52 billion of liabilities to the venture with
Shell, Chief Executive Officer  Marcos Lutz  said Aug. 25.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell three
basis points yesterday to 171, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+
index.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years climbed two basis points to 100, according to CMA
DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The yield on the overnight interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2012 rose one basis point to 11.36 percent.  The real fell 1 percent yesterday to 1.7214 per dollar.  General Shopping, based in Sao Paulo, is meeting with bond
investors through Nov. 2 and plans to sell perpetual notes, said
a person familiar with the transaction who declined to be
identified because he’s not authorized to speak publicly.  Postponed Sale  BR Properties, based in Sao Paulo, was the last Brazilian
company to sell perpetual bonds, issuing $200 million of the
securities to yield 9 percent on Sept. 30. The yield on the
notes was 8.87 percent yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Votorantim Cimentos, South America’s largest cement maker,
postponed a planned sale of perpetual bonds last month,
according to a banker involved in the transaction who declined
to be identified because he’s not authorized to speak publicly.  A Sao Paulo-based Votorantim Group official declined to
comment.  Votorantim, rated one level higher than CSN at BBB, may
have pulled its offering “because they were expecting to price
even tighter,” said  Natalia Corfield , a corporate debt analyst
with ING Groep NV in New York. “CSN might have made the life of
Votorantim more difficult. CSN set a very tight benchmark.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucia Kassai  in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  