-- Currency Funds Advance as U.S. Dollar Weakens, Erasing the Year's Decline
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-10-28T13:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/currency-funds-advance-as-u-s-dollar-weakens-erasing-the-year-s-decline.html
Currency funds gained last month,
reversing a decline for the year, as the dollar slid after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled he might pump
more cash into the economy to spur growth.  The Parker Global Strategies LLC CMI Currency Mangers  index 
rose 1.5 percent in the first  nine months  of the year, propelled
by a 1.7 percent gain in September. Managers profited last month
as the dollar dropped more than 5 percent on bets the Fed would
start another round of asset purchases, a tactic called
quantitative easing. The index tracks 20 currency funds with
$10.15 billion in combined assets.  The gauge was down 1.2 percent last year, its worst annual
performance since at least 2002. Currency funds struggled in
2009 and earlier this year as swings in foreign-exchange rates
made it more difficult to capture profits. The picture changed
as the dollar weakened after Bernanke said in August in Jackson
Hole, Wyoming, that the central bank has the tools to keep the
U.S. economy from slipping back into a recession.  “Trends are starting to resume again in the currency
markets,” said  Dick Pfister,  head of global sales and
consulting at Altegris Investments Inc. in La Jolla, California,
which oversees about $2 billion in assets. “It doesn’t help the
dollar that the Fed keeps printing money and Bernanke keeps
telling everybody he is going to flood the system with more
cash. We are likely in for a long haul of quantitative easing,
which is going to keep these trends going.”  ‘Additional Accommodation’  Policy makers said Sept. 21 they were “prepared to
provide additional accommodation” if needed to support the
economic recovery. The Fed earlier bought about $1.7 billion in
debt in programs that ended in March. Bernanke said Oct. 15 the
economy may need more stimulus to boost inflation and
employment. Policy makers next meet Nov. 2-3.  Estimates for the ultimate size of an asset-purchase
program range from $1 trillion at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch
Global Research to $2 trillion at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Economists at both firms agree the Fed will likely start by
announcing $500 billion next week.  Gains from currency trades in the last quarter helped fuel
returns in the  Altegris 40 Index , which follows performance of
the world’s largest commodity trading advisers, Pfister said.
The index is up 6.59 percent this year, after a 7.98 percent
slide last year.  Commodity trading advisers, or CTAs, utilize systematic
investment strategies using primarily derivatives, such as
futures. The Altegris 40 Index tracks performance of funds with
about $100 billion in assets, or nearly half of the $220 billion
managed-futures industry.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro and yen, fell 5.39 percent
in September to 78.72. It’s down 1.3 percent in October.  “We saw a good performance from a lot of our managers in
August and September, unlike the majority of the rest of the
year,” said Stamford, Connecticut-based  Virginia Parker , chief
executive officer of Parker Global, which allocates $600 million
to hedge funds. “We have some very big themes that are taking
place for the U.S. and the euro-zone and Japan, which are going
to continue to unfold. For the currencies of those three nations
we are going to see some extended moves.”  The dollar touched 80.41 yen on Oct. 25, a 15-year low,
five weeks after Japan intervened for the first time since 2004
to stem the currency’s appreciation. The euro is up 15 percent
since reaching $1.1877 on June 6, the weakest since March 2006.  Bets on a Decline  The net number of derivative contracts held by hedge funds
and other large speculators betting on a decline in the dollar
versus a gain in the currency at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
reached a record 343,263 for the week ended Oct. 5. Currency
futures in the data from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, released weekly, include those on the yen,
euro, Swiss franc, British pound, Mexican peso and the
Australian, New Zealand and Canadian dollars versus the dollar.  Implied volatility  on options for major exchange rates
averaged 12.33 percent this year, compared with an average of
10.55 percent since January 2000, according JPMorgan Chase & Co.
data. The index of three-month options surged to a record 26.55
percent in October 2008.  Hedge funds that are focused on foreign-exchange trading
were up 1.78 percent in September, according to industry
researcher  HedgeFund.net . Foreign-exchange strategy funds are up
5.12 percent this year, more than three times the average return
of 1.41 percent in 2009, HedgeFund.net data show.  “The trends in currencies are now better than they have
been in a while,” said  John Taylor , who heads FX Concepts LLC
in New York, the world’s biggest currency hedge fund. “If you
look at the world, the fiscal structures in many countries are
strapped and interest rates are as low as they can get, so the
one really moveable thing now is currencies.”  FX Concepts’ Global Currency Program returned 14.43 percent
this year through September. It’s headed for its best annual
gain since at least 2006, when it rose 18.58 percent. Last year
it was down 17.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  