-- Daimler Raises Forecast After Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2010-10-28T11:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/daimler-third-quarter-net-income-jumps-28-fold-on-mercedes-e-class-sedan.html
Daimler AG, the world’s second-
largest maker of luxury vehicles, raised its full-year profit
forecast after net income beat analysts’ estimates on demand for
top-of-the-line E- and S-Class sedans in China and the U.S.  Third-quarter net income attributable to shareholders
surged to 1.53 billion euros ($2.12 billion) from 41 million
euros a year earlier, the Stuttgart, Germany-based  carmaker  said
today. Analysts predicted profit of 1.09 billion euros,
according to the average of nine estimates.  Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  increased his target
for 2010 earnings before interest and taxes to more than 7
billion euros. The average estimate of 14 analysts prior to the
report was for full-year Ebit of 6.8 billion euros.  Daimler’s luxury-car sales are rebounding after the
financial crisis as demand advances in China and the U.S., the
world’s two largest auto markets. September marked the highest
output of Mercedes cars for the month in the company’s 120-year
history, as third-quarter E- and S-Class sales rose 34 percent.  “It’s strong results all across the board,” said  Jose Asumendi , a London-based analyst with Royal Bank of Scotland who
recommends buying Daimler stock. “Consensus is way too low;
it’s really lagging this story.”  Sedan Demand  Daimler  predicts demand for E- and S-Class models, which
start at $49,400, will boost Mercedes sales by more than 10
percent this year. Still, growth is slower than competitors.
Daimler September sales worldwide gained 13 percent to 128,700
autos. Volkswagen AG’s Audi increased deliveries 16 percent to
102,650 vehicles, while sales at luxury leader  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG  climbed 17 percent to 142,950 cars.  Daimler traded down 13 cents, or 0.3 percent, at 47.50
euros as of 1:53 p.m. in Frankfurt. Before today’s announcement,
 Daimler  had jumped 28 percent this year, valuing the company at
51 billion euros. The stock last week hit its highest price
since May 2008.  “Investors worry about fading momentum at Mercedes and the
impact of new competitor models,” such as the revamped BMW 5-
Series and X3 and new Audi A7, said  Adam Hull , a London-based
WestLB analyst. “We expect a falling margin in 2011 and 2012.”  Third-quarter sales climbed 30 percent to 25.1 billion
euros. The manufacturer  recorded  a fivefold increase in
operating profit in the quarter to 2.42 billion euros.  Earnings 
were boosted by 401 million euros in gains from health-care and
pension benefits in the U.S. and after winning a lawsuit.  Chinese Growth  Sales in China, which overtook the U.S. in 2009 as the
world’s biggest auto market, rose 19 percent last month.
Mercedes outpaced the market by doubling deliveries. U.S. auto
sales in September rose to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of
11.8 million, the fastest pace since the end of the “cash for
clunkers” program. Mercedes outsold  BMW  and Toyota Motor
Corp.’s Lexus in the U.S. last month.  The revamped CLS luxury coupe and SLK hard-top roadster, as
well as cleaner engines, will help Mercedes have a
“successful” 2011,  Joachim Schmidt , the car unit’s top sales
chief, said in an interview last month. Daimler, which aims to
increase Mercedes car sales to 1.5 million by 2015, didn’t
comment on prospects for next year in the statement today.  The Mercedes unit, which also includes the Smart city car
and the ultra-luxury Maybach nameplate, posted third-quarter
Ebit of 1.3 billion euros, compared with 355 million euros a
year earlier. The growth was driven by demand in China, where
the unit’s sales have more than doubled this year to become its
third-largest market after Germany and the U.S.  ‘Well-Positioned’  “The results show that Daimler is well-positioned in the
lucrative growth regions,” said  Marc-Rene Tonn , an analyst at
M.M. Warburg in Hamburg who recommends buying the stock.
“They’re not bracing for any noticeable slowdown in business.”  The recovering global economy has also boosted deliveries
of heavy trucks at Daimler, the world leader in commercial
vehicles. The division, which makes Mercedes,  Freightliner , and
Fuso vehicles, posted a third-quarter operating profit of 500
million euros after a loss of 127 million euros a year earlier.
The unit closed factories in Asia and North America and cut jobs
after posting losses in every quarter in 2009.  “The world economy is not yet as stable as it was before
the recession, but we are confident that we will continue to
operate successfully in our markets,” Zetsche said in today’s
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 