-- Daimler Leads European Companies Beating Estimates
-- B y   H e a t h e r   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-28T12:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/daimler-leads-europe-companies-beating-estimates-as-boom-fades.html
Europe’s biggest companies  boosted
profit more than analysts estimated in the third quarter, a
period that may mark the end of booming earnings growth.  Daimler AG ,  ABB Ltd.  and  France Telecom SA  all beat
estimates today, joining Volkswagen AG, Ericsson AB and Nokia
Oyj in exceeding forecasts for the period. Earnings have risen
31 percent at the 127 companies in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index 
that have reported quarterly results so far. Positive surprises
outnumber negative ones by 3-to-1, Bloomberg data show.  With the euro rebounding 13 percent against the dollar
since the start of June and forecasts for economic growth
pointing to a slowdown next year as governments slash spending,
the third quarter may have been the high.  Average earnings
growth  in the fourth quarter will slow to 6.4 percent from 33
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The problem is investors are not looking at last
quarter’s results but are more concerned about the next
quarter,” said  Sergi Martin Amoros , chief executive officer at
Credit Andorra Asset Management in Andorra, whose parent bank
oversees about 4 billion euros ($5.5 billion). “There is a
shadow cast by the worsening macro situation.”  The International Monetary Fund predicts growth in the
euro-area economy will slow next year to 1.5 percent from 1.7
percent. Among the risks are that the euro’s recent gains will
sap an export-led recovery. Global growth will slow to 
4.2 percent from 4.8 percent, according to the Washington-based
lender.  In the U.S., 263 of 497 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
companies have reported results. Earnings per share have risen
41 percent, with 219 positive surprises compared with 42
negative. Earnings have exceeded estimates by 8.9 percent.  Industry Exports  European industrial companies, reliant on exports to Asia
and the U.S. to drive sales, have had the most positive earnings
surprises so far. Eighteen of 20 industrial companies beat
estimates in the quarter, including Volvo AB, MAN SE and ABB.  Volvo , the world’s second-biggest truckmaker, last week
reported a third consecutive quarterly profit amid rebounding
heavy-truck markets in North America and Asia. Zurich-based ABB,
the largest maker of power-transmission gear, said today that
increased spending by customers will support earnings and sales
into 2011.  “China and India will remain robust,” ABB Chief Executive
Officer  Joe Hogan  told reporters on a conference call today.
“Germany’s an export economy; it’s been a strong force. The
rest of Europe is difficult.”  Daimler Forecast  The Stoxx 600 Industrial Goods and Services Index is the
second-best performing group in the benchmark index this year,
rising 22 percent. The  Automobiles & Parts Index  gained the
most, advancing 29 percent in the period.  Daimler, whose stock is the best performer on the Stoxx 50
Index of Europe’s biggest companies this year, today raised its
full-year forecast for operating profit after surpassing analyst
estimates for the third quarter. Shares in the Stuttgart,
Germany-based carmaker rose 1.3 percent to 48.24 euros at 2:43
p.m. in Frankfurt.  “Investors worry about fading momentum at Mercedes and the
impact of new competitor models,” such as the revamped BMW 5-
Series and X3 and the new Audi A7, said  Adam Hull , a London-
based analyst at WestLB, prior to the report. “We expect a
falling margin in 2011 and 2012.”  BASF, the world’s largest chemical maker, said it will
resume dividend increases after third-quarter profit jumped by 1
billion euros and raised its sales and earnings outlook for the
full year. The Ludwigshafen, Germany-based company generates
about 80 percent of its revenue outside its home market.  Nokia, Ericsson  Technology companies also performed better than analysts
expected in the quarter, with 11 positive surprises and no
negative ones.  Nokia , the world’s largest maker of mobile
phones, beat estimates for the first time in three quarters.  Shares of Ericsson, the world’s largest maker of wireless
networks, had their biggest gain in six months on Oct. 22, after
the Stockholm-based company said third-quarter profit exceeded
analyst forecasts. Sales in North America, Ericsson’s biggest
market, more than tripled as operators invested in networks for
high-speed data access by smartphones and notebooks.  France Telecom  said today third-quarter profit rose 1.9
percent, more than analysts predicted, driven by its expansion
into Africa and the Middle East. Deutsche Telekom AG, Telefonica
SA and Vodafone Group Plc have yet to report figures.  Retail Gloom  More reliant on sales within Europe, consumer companies and
retailers haven’t fared so well. Heineken NV, the world’s third-
largest brewer, yesterday reported sales that missed estimates
amid austerity measures and weak consumer confidence. Heineken
gets more than 50 percent of its revenue from western Europe.  Home Retail Group Plc , which owns the Homebase home-
improvement and Argos catalog stores in the U.K., said Oct. 20
that first-half pretax profit dropped 23 percent as cash-
strapped consumers spent less on furniture and video games.  U.K. retailers are facing a “very tough” first quarter as
government spending cuts, unemployment, a value-added tax
increase and inflation weigh on consumers’ ability to spend,
said Ian Geddes, head retail partner at Deloitte. He forecasts
zero growth or a slight contraction in retail sales in 2011.  British Airways Plc  is among European companies reporting
tomorrow. Airlines, whose earnings were crimped by the volcanic
ash cloud six months ago, have rebounded more quickly than
predicted from last year’s slump. British Airways may report its
first quarterly profit in two years. Deutsche Lufthansa AG and
Air France-KLM Group this week both raised their outlooks for
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Harris  in London on 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley in London on 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  