-- De Niro, Spacey Boost Festival, Tribeca Comes to Qatar
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2010-10-28T15:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/de-niro-spacey-schnabel-boost-movie-festival-as-tribeca-comes-to-qatar.html
Robert De Niro ,  Kevin Spacey  and
 Julian Schnabel  are taking part in the second Doha Tribeca Film
Festival.  Qatar, the Persian Gulf emirate whose population boasts the
second-highest standard of living in the world behind
Lichtenstein, is seeking to boost its cultural image with the 
 festival,  launched in 2009 as a partnership between the Doha 
Film Institute and Tribeca Enterprises.   Tribeca is New York's biggest cinematic event, co-founded
by De Niro, 66, and includes a presense from the Doha Film 
Institute such as a movie workshop and comedy night.   DTFF is the Doha Film Institute's annual film festival. It 
is being held as as media companies build stronger ties with the
Middle East and studios at home curb investments. This year’s
event is a day longer than last year and runs to Oct. 30. It
features 51 films, 20 more than last year, from 30 countries.  “This is a phenomenal attendance for a festival,” its
executive director Amanda Palmer said. Directors and casts from
41 of the movies are attending, Palmer said.  Qatar has used revenue from the world’s third-largest gas
reserves to develop its arts. It may bid for  Christie’s
International Plc , the Financial Times said, citing an interview
with the emir, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani . Christie’s
owner Artemis SA said on Oct. 26 that no sale process had begun
and it was still committed to the development of Christie’s.  The festival opened with a screening of Algerian director
Rachid Bouchareb’s “Outside the Law,” a film about the
Algerian war of independence that sparked protests when it was
screened in Cannes earlier this year.  Opening Party  Actress  Salma Hayek , who is on the jury, and Schnabel
joined the opening party. His film “Miral” is showing at the
festival.  De Niro showcases locally made 10-minute films and speaks
on a panel. Spacey is in town for the preview of “Casino Jack”
and he conducted a workshop today.  As artistic director at London’s  Old Vic Theatre , Spacey
said today he is scheduling a world tour of Shakespeare’s
Richard III and wants to put the play on somewhere in the Middle
East.  “I was in Beirut over the summer, I was in Abu Dhabi last
year, I was in Dubai and now here in Doha,” he said. “I want
to bring with us an educational ethos, a strain of work in terms
of working with emerging talents. I don’t want to just go to
each city and go, ‘Look at me, I am doing a play.’ I want to go
and create a sense of excitement about theater.”  Later this year, Qatar plans to open Mathaf: the Arab
Museum of Modern Art. I.M. Pei designed the country’s Museum of
Islamic Art on the crescent-shaped waterfront.  Arab Films  The Doha Film Institute was established to develop a 
sustainable movie industry in a sheikhdom of about 1.5 
million people. The DFI has a commitment to financing films,
including at least 10 Arab films a year as well as 
international productions.  “We have never announced how much money,” Palmer said.
“We are trying to create a sustainable film financing fund.
What you will see is a commitment to invest in films, all
different types of commitments.”  The festival opening, held in the newly opened Katara
theater, included an indoor and outdoor screening of “Outside
the Law” attended by more than 2,000 people.  Other films to be screened include John Curran’s “Stone,”
Ahmed Ahmed’s “ Just Like Us ,” Abbas Kiarostami’s “Certified
Copy,”  Randall Wallace’s  “Secretariat” and Justin Chadwick’s
“ The First Grader .”  The festival runs through Oct. 30. For information:
 http://www.dohafilminstitute.com/filmfestival   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 