-- Democrats’ Estate Tax Plan Trips Next Secretariat: Amity Shlaes
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2010-10-28T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/democrats-estate-tax-plan-trips-next-secretariat-amity-shlaes.html
The estate tax is one topic getting
lost in the dust of the midterm races. That’s a pity. This tax,
now quiescent, is set to roar back like a stallion in 2011 if
lawmakers don’t rein it in with new legislation.  The destruction caused by the estate tax can be hard to
capture. This is partly because the family business dynamic, so
affected by the tax, is also hard to describe. Nonetheless, if
left unchecked, this levy can trip up not only the workings of a
family enterprise but also the general economy. An entertaining
reminder of this fact is a film in theaters this midterm autumn.  “Secretariat”  is about the Chenery family and their
horse, who in 1973 became the first Triple Crown winner in 25
years. The film is also about Secretariat, the business, and the
struggles all businesses suffered in the high-tax 1970s.  Long before the big red horse with white stockings was
born, the Chenerys were pouring what dollars they had into their
horse farm, Meadow Stables. Money was often tight, so the family
leveraged their non-cash assets. One was the family’s horse
breeding expertise. Another was their knowledge of horse
markets, including the insight that investors overestimate the
importance of the sire in genetic inheritance, while
underestimating the mare.  Chris Chenery, who ran the business, offered investors a
deal in which they could breed their studs with several of his
mares. In lieu of paying a stud fee, Chenery gave investors one
of the foals. A coin flip determined which one they got.
 Secretariat  happened to be a reject the Chenerys received
because they lost a coin flip over the offspring of Bold Ruler.  The Chenerys’ experience, however, made them confident they
had won in losing. For unlike  Ogden Phipps , the owner of Bold
Ruler, they were familiar with Secretariat’s mother and had seen
the foal get on his legs earlier than usual.  Inside Information  Just as in many family businesses, a strong social network
enabled the Chenerys to make smart decisions. For example,
Chris’s friends helped his daughter, Penny, select the best
trainer and jockey for their colt.  But the racehorse almost didn’t become the legend. That’s
because the family’s assets -- hard-won knowledge,
intergenerational experience, a foal with potential -- were
almost dispersed to the wind. After Secretariat had become Horse
of the Year, but before he ran his  Triple Crown  races, Chris
died. The patriarch’s death triggered the estate tax. The amount
due on Meadow Stables seemed to necessitate liquidation.
Avoiding that fate would require losing the focus and resources
the farm needed to ready its possible champion.  Overtaxed and Desperate  This trap caused Penny, the new leader of the enterprise,
to feel a sense of desperation familiar to other overtaxed
businesses of the period. In those years  income tax rates  were
high. So was the capital gains tax. The estate tax was
especially burdensome.  “The 1970s was the bad old estate tax days,”  Paul Caron ,
a tax expert at the University of Cincinnati College of Law,
said in an e-mail. “The exemption was only $60,000 ($334,000
in today’s dollars) with a 77 percent top rate. Just as the
day’s 70 percent top income tax rate spurred all sorts of
aggressive tax sheltering activity, the draconian estate tax
rates encouraged the wealthy to spend considerable time and
money engaging in various strategies to reduce the estate tax
bite.”  The fact that one of those tax-escape strategies might have
been the purchase of gentlemen farms like the Chenerys’ doesn’t
undermine the larger point: navigating tax obstacles stole
precious time from more worthy endeavors.  Time-Consuming Distraction  The film depicts Penny as a canny woman who got past those
tax traps in the same way that Secretariat bypassed Sham, his
strongest competitor. She did it by creating a breeding rights
syndicate to raise cash. But this exercise also had costs. The
time it required could have been used to breed more
Secretariats.  The coming decade, which will see a higher estate tax,
income tax and capital gains tax, is shaping up to be a
formidable challenge -- one that seems as daunting as surviving
all three legs of the Triple Crown.  Democrats who see virtue in the estate tax are doing the
equivalent of aborting future enterprises. They deprive
businesses of oxygen with their support for capital gains taxes
and disregard for contracts.  The Republicans are supposed to prevent a rerun of the
1970s. Several commentators have noticed that there’s something
Republican about “Secretariat.” Actress  Diane Lane , who plays
Penny, evokes a combination of  Sandra Day  O’Connor (Western
horsewoman) and  Sarah Palin  (moose-hunting politician).  Still, it isn’t clear that the Grand Old Party has the
stamina to pass the endurance test that is tax reform. By
focusing so much on midterm fury and so little on reform, the
party may prove more Sham than Secretariat.  ( Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  