-- JPMorgan, Deutsche Bank, Citigroup in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-10-28T10:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/deutsche-bank-national-century-cablevision-citigroup-in-court-news.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and HSBC
 Holdings  PLC were sued by an investor claiming they manipulated
silver futures and options prices in violation of U.S. antitrust
law by placing “spoof” trading orders.  The investor, Peter Laskaris, alleges that starting in
March 2008, the banks colluded to suppress silver futures so
that call options, or the right to buy, would decline, and put
options for the right to sell would increase, according to the
complaint filed yesterday in federal court in Manhattan. The
collusion was also intended to maintain prices at levels at
which some options would expire as worthless, Laskaris claims.  The banks placed so-called spoof trading orders, or the
“submission of a large order which is not executed but
influences prices and is then withdrawn before it reasonably can
be executed,” according to the complaint.  Joseph Evangelisti, a spokesman for New York-based
JPMorgan, declined to comment. Juanita Gutierrez, a spokeswoman
for London-based HSBC, also declined to comment.  A separate, similar complaint filed yesterday on behalf of
investor Brian Beatty, and naming the same banks as defendants,
claims a whistleblower contacted the CFTC last year and reported
the banks’ conspiracy to suppress prices of silver futures to
profit from “enormous” short positions in silver futures.  Christopher Lovell, a lawyer representing Laskaris, didn’t
return a call seeking comment after business hours.  The cases are Laskaris v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 10-8157,
and Beatty v. JPMorgan Chase, 10-8146, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Deutsche Bank Ordered to Pay $980,000 in Swap Suit  Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest lender, was ordered by
an appeals court to pay 710,000 euros ($980,000) in damages over
swaps it recommended to municipalities.  The Stuttgart Higher Regional Court issued the ruling in a
suit brought by a sewer-system operator jointly owned by
southern German cities including Ravensburg and Weingarten. The
judges overturned a lower tribunal’s decision to reject the
claim the bank didn’t properly explain the risk of the swaps.  The “swaps constitute a form of gambling,” the court said
in an e-mailed  statement  yesterday. “The bank must disclose
that it constructed the odds to the disadvantage of the
customer, who bears a higher likelihood of losing.”  Deutsche Bank has been involved in more than 20 lawsuits
filed by local governments, community-owned utilities and
companies that claim the lender sold swaps without adequately
disclosing their risks. Four other appeals courts had ruled in
favor of Deutsche Bank. Germany’s highest civil court will
eventually have to decide whether the bank failed to adequately
advise its customers in these cases.  Deutsche Bank, based in Frankfurt, will ask the top court
to overturn the ruling, its attorney Christian Duve said. The
Stuttgart court said the parties are allowed to appeal
yesterday’s order because of the disparate case law on the
issue.  “The ruling confirms our view that such highly complex
financial products require a high quality of advice from the
bank,” Peter Gundermann, the attorney for the plaintiff, said
in an e-mailed statement.  Deutsche Bank presented itself as an expert in municipal
financing and should have known that state law prohibits cities
from investing in speculative products, the court said.  The German case is OLG Stuttgart, 9 U 148/08.  For more, click here.  Parrett Lived in ‘Lap of Luxury’ on Lam, Marshal Says  Rebecca Parrett, a former National Century Financial
Enterprises Inc. executive who fled the U.S. to avoid a 25-year
prison term, was arrested in a Mexican resort town where she
liked to dance, a U.S. official said.  Parrett, 62, was picked up Oct. 26 by Mexican immigration
authorities in Ajijic, Jalisco, Deputy U.S. Marshal Brian
Babtist said yesterday. Parrett was convicted in Columbus, Ohio,
in March 2008 for her role in a $2.9 billion fraud. Days later,
while out on bail, she fled her home in Carefree, Arizona. She
was declared a fugitive and sentenced in absentia in March 2009.  “She was living in the lap of luxury,” Babtist said in a
telephone interview from Columbus. “She was having fun, telling
people that she was an American who had testified against
several people in a large white-collar crime case. She was
trying to stay anonymous and using an alias.”  Parrett was flown yesterday from Guadalajara to Los
Angeles, where she was arrested on a warrant, he said. She will
appear in federal court in Los Angeles before being moved to
Columbus.  She was convicted with four other executives in 2008 of
fraud, money laundering and conspiracy. The judge also ordered
her to pay $2.38 billion in restitution. Parrett, a former vice
chairman, secretary and treasurer, was one of 10 executives who
were convicted at trial or pleaded guilty.  Babtist couldn’t say how Parrett financed her life on the
run. “I don’t know where the money came from, whether she was
getting outside help or she was using the stolen funds from the
fraud case,” he said.  The case is U.S. v. Poulsen, 06-129, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Ohio (Columbus).  For more, click here.  Ex-HannStar Executive to Plead Guilty to Price Fixing  A former  HannStar Display Corp.  executive will plead guilty
to price-fixing of liquid crystal display panels and agree to
serve seven months in jail, U.S. prosecutors said in a
statement.  Jui Hung Wu was charged in San Francisco with conspiring
from September 2001 to January 2006 to eliminate competition in
the display industry, the Justice Department said. Wu is a
resident of Taiwan and a former director of  global sales  and
marketing for Taipei-based  HannStar .  Under an agreement, which needs court approval, Wu will pay
a $20,000 fine, according to the government. Wu met with other
executives in the flat-screen industry and agreed to charge
prices at predetermined levels, the U.S. said.  Wu’s lawyer Gail Shifman didn’t return a call for comment.  The case is U.S. v Wu, 10-00781, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Cablevision Systems Sued by Customers Over Fox Network Block  Cablevision Systems Corp. , which provides television
programming in the New York City area, was sued by three
customers seeking damages for the company’s failure to firm up a
contract with  News Corp. ’s Fox network.  Cablevision has been embroiled in a dispute with Fox over
fees, and customers faced blank screens yesterday for the U.S.
baseball World Series opener pitting the Texas Rangers against
the San Francisco Giants.  The suit “seeks restitution for Cablevision’s 3 million
customers who have been deprived of Fox channels, which have
been replaced by Cablevision’s annoying and self-serving loop,
which whines about News Corp.’s supposed failure to negotiate in
good faith.”  The complaint, filed Oct. 26 in federal court in White
Plains, New York, by subscribers in Yorktown Heights, New York,
Mountain Lakes, New Jersey, and Stamford, Connecticut, seeks at
least $450 million in compensation, as well as punitive damages.  Fox, based in New York, cut its electronic feed to
Cablevision, of Bethpage, New York, two weeks ago, after the
companies couldn’t agree on fees to be paid by Cablevision.  “News Corp. is the company that deserves a lawsuit, for
blacking out the World Series in three million New York-area
homes,” said Jim Maiella, a spokesman for Cablevision, in an e-
mailed message. “The FCC has all the facts and our customers
are demanding that the FCC act to end the FOX blackout.”  The case is Gallo  v. Cablevision Systems Corp., 10-CV8125,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (White
Plains).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Wells Fargo Finds Foreclosure Lapses, Will File Affidavits  Wells Fargo & Co. , conceding that some foreclosure
affidavits “did not strictly adhere to the required
procedures,” said it will file supplemental statements to
courts in about 55,000 proceedings.  The bank, which has proceeded with home seizures while
rivals including Bank of  America Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
delayed theirs, said yesterday in a statement that it found some
lapses during a review of its processes. The bank will begin
filings in 23 states immediately and aims to complete them by
mid-November, subject to local laws, according to the statement.  “The issues the company has identified do not relate in
any way to the quality of the customer and loan data,” the San
Francisco-based lender said in the statement. “Nor does the
company believe that any of these instances led to foreclosures
which should not have otherwise occurred.”  Attorneys general in all 50 states started a probe into
foreclosure practices after court documents surfaced showing
employees signed papers without ensuring their accuracy. Bank of
America, JPMorgan and Ally Financial Inc. temporarily suspended
some foreclosure sales or evictions, pending reviews. Wells
Fargo reiterated yesterday that it doesn’t intend to stop
foreclosure sales.  “The company has identified instances where a final step
in its processes relating to the execution of the foreclosure
affidavits (including a final review of the affidavit, as well
as some aspects of the notarization process) did not strictly
adhere to the required procedures,” it said in the statement.  Wells Fargo has assigned 160 employees in four offices to
be part of the review, said Teri Schrettenbrunner, a spokeswoman
for the company, in a phone interview.  U.S. Asks to Close Ex-Societe Generale Trader’s Trial  The trial of ex- Societe Generale  trader Samarth Agrawal,
accused of stealing the bank’s computer code for high-frequency
trading, should be held in part behind closed doors to protect
trade secrets, the U.S. said.  Agrawal, arrested in April, was charged by federal
prosecutors in with theft of trade secrets. The government said
Agrawal, hired by Societe Generale in New York in March 2007 to
work as a quantitative analyst in the high-frequency trading
group, made copies of one part of the code he’d been given
access to and another part he wasn’t allowed to have.  Prosecutors in New York asked U.S. District Judge Jed
Rakoff to close portions of the trial to the public when high-
frequency trading is discussed and to seal the transcript about
such testimony, because Agrawal claims the data wasn’t secret.  “In short, the nature of the trade secrets is likely to be
contested at trial,” said prosecutors in the office of
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  Agrawal has pleaded not guilty to the charges. His lawyer,
Ivan Fisher, didn’t return a voice-mail message left at his
office after business hours.  Agrawal was promoted to trader in April 2009, according to
the complaint against him. Before he resigned in November, he
deleted a computer folder on his personal network drive that
contained the code, prosecutors said.  Prosecutors have said the code Agrawal is accused of
stealing cost millions of dollars to develop and generated
millions of dollars in revenue for Societe Generale.  The case is U.S. v. Agrawal, 10-CR-417, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Rajaratnam Wiretaps Are Legal, U.S. Prosecutors Say  Galleon Group co-founder Raj Rajaratnam’s bid to exclude
wiretap evidence from his hedge fund insider trading trial
should be denied, prosecutors argued in court papers.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in New York held a
four-day hearing earlier this month over defense claims that the
government misled a different federal judge, Gerald Lynch, into
authorizing the wiretaps in March 2008.  Rajaratnam’s lawyers are seeking to show that U.S. agents
lied or misled Lynch and then illegally recorded Rajaratnam’s
communications. The recordings are the centerpiece of the
biggest insider-trading prosecution in history. Defense lawyers
argue the recordings shouldn’t be used in his criminal insider-
trading trial.  “It was Rajaratnam’s burden to prove first, that the
government, with intent to deceive Judge Lynch, or with reckless
disregard for the truth, falsified or omitted facts from its
wiretap affidavit,” Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jonathan Streeter
and Avi Weitzman wrote.  “Rajaratnam failed to prove that any Government
representative deliberately deceived Judge Lynch or had reckless
disregard for whether they were deceiving the judge,” they
wrote.  Prosecutors said the government secretly recorded about
2,400 conversations that the hedge fund executive had with more
than 130 friends, business associates and alleged accomplices.  In addition to the wiretaps, prosecutors said, the evidence
against Rajaratnam, 53, will include testimony from people who
participated in the conversations.  Lawyers for Rajaratnam said in court papers filed Oct. 18
the wiretaps should be suppressed. The defense cited testimony
from the hearing earlier this month which they say proves their
argument that government statements to Lynch in obtaining the
wiretap were false and misleading.  “It was much easier for the FBI and the U.S. Attorney’s
Office to decide for themselves what he should hear about and
what should be hidden,” John Dowd, a lawyer for Rajaratnam,
wrote.  “Falsehoods and critical omissions pervade this
affidavit” for a wiretap, he wrote.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Oracle Says It Will Show Proof of Apotheker Wrongdoing  Oracle Corp.  Chief Executive Officer Larry Ellison said his
company plans to produce evidence that Hewlett-Packard Co.’s
incoming CEO was involved in an effort to steal Oracle software
while at former employer  SAP AG .  “A few weeks ago I accused HP’s new CEO, Leo Apotheker, of
overseeing an industrial espionage scheme centering on the
repeated theft of massive amounts of Oracle’s software,”
Ellison said in a statement Oct. 26. Oracle intends to present
evidence at a trial that starts Nov. 1, Ellison said.  HP said in response that Oracle is attempting to harass its
new CEO, who had limited knowledge of the case. SAP, which is
fighting the amount of damages Oracle is seeking in a 2007
lawsuit, said yesterday that Ellison is using the trial as part
of his personal crusade against HP. Ellison hired former HP CEO
Mark Hurd as a president last month and chided HP’s board for
how it handled Hurd’s departure.  “Oracle had ample opportunity to question Leo during his
sworn deposition in October 2008 and chose not to include him as
a trial witness until he was named CEO of HP,” HP said in a
statement.  “Given Leo’s limited knowledge of and role in the matter,
Oracle’s last-minute effort to require him to appear live at
trial is no more than an effort to harass him and interfere with
his duties and responsibilities as HP’s CEO,” HP said.  SAP expects to have to pay “tens of millions” of dollars
in damages, SAP Co-President Bill McDermott said in an interview
yesterday. McDermott said he expects to be in court on Nov. 2.  A jury and judge will decide any amount that SAP has to
pay. SAP has said there was inappropriate downloading of
Oracle’s support documents.  “This is more evidence of Oracle’s true motivation to use
the trial as part of Ellison’s personal crusade against HP,”
Christoph Liedtke, a spokesman at SAP, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “SAP remains focused on the core issue of
determining reasonable levels of compensation in this case for
Oracle.”  For more, click here.  McDonald’s Obesity Case Can’t Proceed as Group Suit  McDonald’s Corp. , the world’s largest restaurant chain,
convinced a U.S. judge that consumers’ claims that its food
contributed to childhood obesity were too distinct to be
gathered in a single group lawsuit.  “Plaintiffs’ claims will necessitate extensive
individualized inquiries,” Judge Donald Pogue in Manhattan said
yesterday in a 43-page decision in a lawsuit filed in 2002 by
teenagers Ashley Pelman and Jazlen Bradley.  They accused  McDonald’s  of deceptively marketing its
Chicken McNuggets, fish sandwiches, hamburgers and French fries
from 1985 to 2002, harming their health and violating New York
law.  Pogue, a U.S. Court of International Trade judge sitting by
special designation in district court, said the consumers hadn’t
shown that other people of a similar age suffered the same
medical injuries after being exposed to the same marketing and
eating the same food.  Lawyers for Pelman and Bradley estimated that the class
size could number in the thousands, according to the ruling.  “We are extremely pleased with the court’s decision
yesterday,” Heidi Barker, a spokeswoman for McDonald’s, said in
an e-mailed statement. “As we have maintained throughout these
proceedings, it is unfair to blame McDonald’s for this complex
societal problem.”  Samuel Hirsch, the lead lawyer for the plaintiffs, didn’t
immediately respond to a call and e-mail seeking comment on
yesterday’s decision.  The case is Pelman v. McDonald’s Corp., 02-cv-07821, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Citigroup’s Wormsley Denies Suggesting Bid to Hands  Citigroup Inc.  banker David Wormsley denied giving bid
information about an auction of EMI Group Ltd. to Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd. founder Guy Hands, who claims Wormsley
misled him about the deal.  Wormsley also testified yesterday that he didn’t remember
many specifics of the sale because he had been sidelined --
“kicked to the curb,” in the words of Citigroup lawyer Ted
Wells -- as an adviser on the deal by EMI in favor of Greenhill
& Co.  “I played a very junior role in this transaction,”
Wormsley told jurors at the start of a second full day of
testimony in federal court in New York.  Wormsley, 50, who was called as a hostile witness by Terra
Firma, testified under questioning by Wells that he played only
a minor role in the deal, confined to working on the financing.
He said he never told Hands to bid 2.65 pounds ($4.17) a share
for EMI, or that Cerberus Capital Management LP planned to make
a competing offer of 2.62 pounds a share, as Hands claims.  Hands, who testified over four days, claims Terra Firma was
forced to overpay for EMI, which has lost money since the deal,
because Wormsley misled him about the bidding in three telephone
calls during the weekend before the auction on Monday, May 21,
2007.  Cerberus didn’t bid, leaving Terra Firma without
competition in the auction for the 113-year-old music publishing
and recording company based in London. Terra Firma claims that
if it had known the truth, it would have sought more information
about EMI’s business and finances and negotiated a lower price.  Wormsley testified Oct. 27 that he and Hands discussed only
Citigroup’s financing of the deal, denying, under questioning by
Terra Firma lawyer David Boies, that they discussed details of
the Terra Firma bid.  Wormsley completed his testimony yesterday after spending
two days on the stand.  The case is Terra Firma Investments (GP) 2 Ltd. v.
Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Lehman Brokerage Trustee’s Firm Gets $107.8 Million  The law firm advising the trustee of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. ’s brokerage was paid $107.8 million for two years’
work liquidating the remains of the broker dealer, according to
a bankruptcy court  filing .  Trustee James Giddens and his law firm Hughes Hubbard &
Reed LLP have been returning assets to customers of the
brokerage, Lehman Brothers Inc., since its parent filed the
biggest  bankruptcy  in U.S. history in September 2008 in New
York. Total charges for lawyers, accountants, services and rent
through Sept. 30 were about $420 million, the trustee said in
the Oct. 26 filing.  Giddens had to set up “protocols and processes for
returning property to customers, and incurred substantial
expenses in administering the largest broker dealer insolvency
in history,” Kent Jarrell, a spokesman for Giddens, said in an
e-mail yesterday.  The main bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., 08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The brokerage case is In re Securities
Investor Protection Corp. v. Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-1420, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Stanford Attorney Bennett Removed as Trial Lawyer  R. Allen Stanford’s attorney, Robert S. Bennett, was
removed from his criminal-defense trial team by a federal judge
after the indicted financier was found indigent.  U.S. District Judge David Hittner, who will preside over
Stanford’s criminal trial, relieved Bennett of his trial duties
yesterday at a hearing in Houston federal court. The judge
rejected three lawyers proffered by Stanford and appointed two
others.  “Indigent defendants do not have the right to select their
own attorneys,” Hittner said. The judge didn’t postpone the
financier’s trial scheduled for Jan. 24. New attorneys Robert
Scardino and Ali Fazel told him they would be ready.  Stanford, 60, is accused of leading a $7 billion investment
fraud scheme centered on the sale of certificates of deposit by
his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd. He has
maintained he is innocent.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 