-- Deutsche Boerse Third-Quarter Earnings Rise Amid Cost Cuts, One-Time Gain
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-10-28T10:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/deutsche-boerse-third-quarter-earnings-rise-amid-cost-cuts-one-time-gain.html
Deutsche Boerse AG , Europe’s largest
securities exchange, said third-quarter profit and sales rose
and cut its full-year cost forecast, even as the company still
works to integrate its U.S. options platform.  The Frankfurt-based company said expenses for the year will
be 1.15 billion euros ($1.59 billion), compared with a previous
forecast of 1.21 billion euros. In the third quarter, costs fell
to 287 million euros from 301.5 million euros in the same period
in 2009. Third-quarter net income rose 1.9 percent to 161.3
million euros from 158.3 million euros in the third quarter of
2009, the exchange said in a statement.  Deutsche Boerse’s results are “fully in line with our
forecast but slightly above consensus,”  Philipp Haessler , a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Equinet AG, wrote in a note to
investors. “Positively the company lowered its full-year cost
guidance.” He has a “hold” rating on the stock.  Deutsche Boerse and rivals such as NYSE Euronext and  London
Stock Exchange Group Plc  saw trading slow last year following
the financial crisis, and responded by cutting costs to shore up
earnings. Competition in Europe has increased from firms such as
Chi-X Europe Ltd. and Bats Europe while Deutsche Boerse’s
International Securities Exchange Holdings Inc., a New York-
based options venue, has lost market share in the U.S.  Net Income Rises  Net income exceeded the 151.2 million-euro  average estimate 
of nine analysts compiled by Bloomberg, and included a one-time
gain of 10.7 million euros from the sale of its 77 percent
interest in Avox Ltd. Revenue rose 0.7 percent to 504.3 million
in the third quarter, compared with 500.9 million euros in the
comparable period the year before.  Deutsche Boerse shares slipped 0.6 percent to 50.99 euros
at 12:05 p.m. in Frankfurt trading.  “The slight rise in sales revenue in the third quarter,
coupled with a tight cost management, led to an increase in
earnings year-on-year,”  Gregor Pottmeyer , chief financial
officer of Deutsche Boerse, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
measures designed to optimize operating processes and cost
structures” announced in the first quarter “should lead to
annual savings of around 150 million euros from 2013 onwards.”  Deutsche Boerse owns the Frankfurt stock exchange;
Clearstream, Europe’s No. 2 securities-settlement company; Eurex
Clearing; and is part-owner of Eurex, the region’s largest
futures market. Eurex bought  International Securities Exchange 
in 2007.  Charges for ISE  The exchange said it may be forced to take a new charge for
ISE, citing “still pending regulatory approval for certain
functions and the subdued trend on the U.S. options market.”  In the fourth quarter of 2009, the company recorded a
pretax charge of 415.6 million euros for ISE after growth in
options trading slowed during the year. The writedown was offset
by a gain of 66.7 million euros from the cancellation of an
insurance policy.  “The company did not book an impairment on its ISE
intangibles,” said  Bernd Mueller-Gerberding , a Munich-based
UniCredit SpA analyst, who expected a 578 million euro charge,
in a note to clients today. “However it warned that the risk
for an impairment has increased. We still think that an
impairment of the ISE intangibles is inevitable.” He recommends
buying the shares.  ISE has seen its share of options on U.S. equities and
exchange-traded funds decline to the lowest level in more than
seven years as venues operated by  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  and  NYSE
Euronext  gained volume. The exchange handled 19.2 percent of
trading in September, its lowest level since April 2002,
according to data compiled by Chicago-based Options Clearing
Corp which clears and settles all trades of exchange-listed
contracts.  Earnings before interest and taxes for the third quarter
rose to 244.1 million euros from 243.7 million euros in the
third quarter of 2009. Revenue rose 1 percent to 504.3 million
euros, Deutsche Boerse said.  The company holds a conference call for analysts later
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  