-- Diets by Pregnant Women Spur Underweight Babies in Japan
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2010-10-28T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/diets-by-112-pound-pregnant-women-spur-wave-of-underweight-babies-in-japan.html
As soon as Keiko Ozaki found out she
was pregnant with her second baby, she went on a diet.  Ozaki, who teaches jazz dancing in Osaka, Japan, and
weighed 51 kilograms (112 pounds), said she was chastised by her
doctor for  gaining weight  too quickly during her first pregnancy.
With her second baby, Ozaki, 30, avoided rice and skipped meals
before her monthly checkups, adding 7.8 kilos (18 pounds) over
nine months -- 4.7 kilos less than U.S. women gain on average.  While Ozaki said she avoided the rebukes, her baby boy was
300 grams lighter than the national average of 3 kilos (6lbs,
10oz). As Japan’s birth weights fall for a third decade,
scientists say advice pregnant women receive may be contributing
to the highest rate of low-birth-weight babies in the  developed
world . More critically, it may be setting their infants up for
diabetes and heart disease in later life.  “What’s happening in Japan is a shocking phenomenon,”
said Hideoki Fukuoka, who studies evolutionary biology at Waseda
University in Tokyo. “You hear of doctors yelling at expectant
mothers and telling them to transfer to another hospital if they
can’t manage their weight.”  The country’s society of obstetricians plans to follow the
U.S. and U.K. in publishing guidance on weight management in
pregnancy in April. The Institute of Medicine’s  guidelines  were
released in May 2009 and the National Institute for Health and
Clinical Excellence in London issued its latest  advice  last July.  Bucking the Trend  Unlike most developed nations, where new moms are getting
heavier, in Japan they’re becoming  thinner . The result is that
the average weight of a newborn in Japan is 200 grams (7oz) less
than in 1980. The prevalence of babies weighing less than 2.5
kilos (5lbs, 8oz) --  low birth weight  by World Health
Organization standards -- is now 9.6 percent, up from 5.2
percent three decades ago.  A baby’s low weight at birth is either the result of
preterm delivery or  restricted growth  inside the womb, according
to the WHO. Birth weight is affected by the mother’s own fetal
growth and her diet from birth to pregnancy, and her body
composition at conception, the Geneva-based agency says.  Newborns weighing less than 2.5 kilos are at greater risk
of dying and suffering poor health and disability, WHO says. A
growing body of scientific evidence also shows growth-restricted
infants are at increased risk of coronary heart disease, high
blood pressure, stroke, Type 2 diabetes and obesity as adults.  “The nine months during pregnancy and the first two years
of life will set the foundation for good health for the entire
life course,”  Margaret Chan , the WHO’s director general, said
in a telephone interview last week.  Spina Bifida  Another consequence of undernourishment is an increasing
rate of spina bifida due to inadequate intake of  folic acid ,
which the body uses to make new cells, according to Waseda
University’s Fukuoka. Women lacking the B vitamin weeks before
and around conception are at greater risk of  birth defects 
caused by the incomplete development of the spinal cord or its
coverings.  A 2007 health ministry-funded survey by Yokohama City
University found 4.8 Japanese babies per 10,000 were born with
spina bifida, compared with fewer than 1 case per 10,000 in the
mid 1970s. In the U.S., where cereal grains have been  fortified 
with folic acid since 1998, the  prevalence  of spina bifida was
1.9 per 10,000 live births in 2005, according to the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  The growing fetus adjusts to environmental cues and adapts
its development to match, according to  Peter Gluckman , New
Zealand’s chief science adviser, who has studied human
development and disease for 30 years. Gluckman’s team at the
 Liggins Institute  in Auckland found that adaptive changes may
increase the risk of diabetes and heart disease if the fetus
predicts a life course of poor nutrition and encounters an
excess outside the womb, leading to a  mismatch .  ‘Worst Possible Scenario’  “Being born small and growing big is the worst possible
scenario for risk of disease, at least from the mismatch side of
things,” said  Mark Hanson , chairman of the  International
Society for Developmental Origins of Health and Disease  and a
collaborator of Gluckman’s at the U.K.’s University of
Southampton.  The incidence in Japanese children of Type 2 diabetes, the
variety in which the hormone insulin is unable to regulate sugar
in the blood,  almost doubled  from 7.3 per 100,000 in 1976-80 to
13.9 per 100,000 in 1991-95. Still, it’s too early to tell
whether the decline in birth weights in Japan has made the
nation’s citizens sicker in adulthood, Hanson said.  “Japan is an extraordinary country,” he said. “It’s the
only developed country in the world which is increasing the risk
of its disease by both reducing the adequacy of nutrition of the
fetus at one end and then Westernizing at the other end.”  ‘Insect Thin’  More than 22.5 percent of women in their 20s are
underweight, having a  body mass index  of less than 18.5, Japan’s
health ministry said last year. Among women in their 30s, 16.8
percent were underweight. Normal-weight people have a BMI of
18.5 to 24.9.  “Many women, especially in cities in Japan, are now
espousing very much the kind of body image that you associate
with the magazine model: the stick-insect-thin model,” said
Hanson, who has studied birth-weight trends there.  An increase in  smoking  among young women in Japan may also
be contributing, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development in Paris said in a report last year.  ‘I’m Pregnant’  Being slender makes it more difficult to tell when a woman
is pregnant, said Mami Nomura, who had a BMI of 16.4 before
gaining 10 kilos (22 pounds) during her pregnancy this year. The
Tokyo mom routinely wore a tag given out at subways that said
“I’m pregnant” to encourage passengers to give up their seats
for her on buses and trains.  “Foreign friends couldn’t tell I was pregnant and would
ask me, ‘where are you hiding the baby?’” said Nomura, 38, who
delivered a 3.2 kilo (7lb, 1oz) infant in July.  In a country where fewer than 1 in 10 maternity hospitals
can offer women an  epidural , the anesthetic procedure that numbs
the lower half of the body, smaller babies may be easier to
deliver.  Osaka obstetrician Hiratoshi Sakamoto, who delivered
Ozaki’s babies, said he’s told patients to manage their weight
for 25 years after seeing heavier women struggle through
difficult labors with larger babies, putting the infants at risk.  “No matter what I tell them, 80 percent of normal-size
women end up gaining 13 to 15 kilos,” Sakamoto said in an
interview. “Babies can comfortably be born if they’re around
2.6 kilos” (5lbs, 12 oz).  In 2006, in reaction to the increase in low-weight babies,
Japan’s health ministry said normal-weight women should gain 7
to 12 kilos (15-26 pounds) during pregnancy, less than the 25-
to-35 pounds recommended in the U.S. Many doctors in Japan still
are reluctant to recommend pregnant women put on enough weight,
according to Waseda University’s Fukuoka.  “Weight control has been the most important agenda item
for them and they’re reluctant to accept that what they’ve been
practicing for decades may turn out to be wrong,” he said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Kanoko Matsuyama  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Gale  in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net . 