-- DoCoMo, Softbank Post Higher Quarterly Profit as Smartphone Demand Rises
-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v   a n d   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 2010-10-28T07:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/docomo-softbank-post-higher-quarterly-profit-as-smartphone-demand-rises.html
NTT DoCoMo Inc. , Japan’s largest
mobile-phone operator, and  Softbank Corp.  reported higher
second-quarter profit, helped by the popularity of smartphones
such as  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone.  DoCoMo  said today that its  net income  rose 22 percent to
167.6 billion yen ($2.1 billion) in the three months ended Sept.
30. Tokyo-based  Softbank , the country’s third-largest wireless
operator, said  profit  gained 32 percent to 57.4 billion yen.  Japanese carriers are benefiting from increased use of
smartphones, whose popularity prompted researcher IDC to raise
its shipment forecast for the devices last month. Tokyo-based
DoCoMo said earlier today it will beat its full-year sales
target of 1 million smartphones by as much as 30 percent, helped
by models running on  Google Inc. ’s Android software.  DoCoMo  rose 0.5 percent to 135,200 yen at the 3 p.m. close
on the Tokyo Stock Exchange before earnings were reported.
 Softbank  declined 0.9 percent to 2,645 yen and has advanced 22
percent this year, making it the best performer among Japan’s
phone-service providers.  Increased revenue from data communication is helping the
operators counter declining demand for voice calls. DoComo said
average revenue per user for data services rose 3.7 percent to
2,540 yen in the quarter, while the amount jumped 15 percent to
2,290 yen at Softbank.  DoCoMo began selling Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy
smartphone powered by Android today and plans to release a
tablet computer by next month. The agreement with Suwon, South
Korea-based Samsung for the two devices is exclusive until the
end of March, DoCoMo said Oct. 5.  Softbank, KDDI  Softbank,  Apple ’s exclusive provider of the iPhone in Japan,
offers one Android model.  KDDI Corp., Japan’s second-largest wireless-phone provider,
announced plans earlier this month to expand its lineup of
Android handsets to five models.  The iPhone was Japan’s most popular smartphone in the six
months ended September, capturing 60 percent of shipments in the
country,  MM Research Institute Ltd.  said Oct. 26. Sony Ericsson
Mobile Communications AB’s Xperia was second with 21 percent,
followed by Sharp Corp.’s model with 6.3 percent, both of which
run Android.  Global smartphone shipments will rise a greater-than-
expected 55 percent this year to about 270 million units,
spurred by new models including the iPhone 4 and Research In
Motion Ltd.’s BlackBerry Torch, Framingham-Massachusetts-based
IDC  said Sept. 7 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 