-- Dollar Drops Against Euro on Speculation Fed Easing Will Debase Currency
-- B y   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-10-29T00:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/dollar-slumps-against-yen-euro-on-speculation-federal-reserve-will-ease.html
The dollar traded near a 15-year low
against the yen on prospects that the Federal Reserve will take
more credit-easing steps to keep borrowing costs low, reducing
the allure of U.S. assets.  The U.S. currency headed for a monthly decline versus 12 of
its 16 major counterparts after the New York Fed asked dealers
for projections of asset purchases over the next six months. The
Australian dollar headed for a second week of losses amid
 speculation  its central bank will leave interest rates unchanged
on Nov. 2 after a report this week showed price gains slowed.  “Revelations the New York Fed has been surveying U.S.
primary dealers on their expectations for additional Fed easing
essentially confirms to the market some form of quantitative
easing is likely to be announced next week,” said Mike Jones, a
currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington.
“This is a negative for the dollar.”  The dollar traded at 80.94 yen as of 8:55 a.m. in Tokyo
from 81.03 yen in New York yesterday, after falling to 80.41 yen
on Oct. 25, the lowest level since April 1995. The U.S. currency
has fallen 3.1 percent versus the yen this month and has
weakened 13 percent this year.  The euro bought $1.3950 from $1.3930 yesterday, and was at
112.87 yen from 112.87 yen. Australia’s dollar traded at 97.92
U.S. cents from 97.89 cents, set for a 0.4 percent decline this
week. The currency fetched 79.25 yen from 79.31 yen.  Fed Survey  A New York Fed survey, obtained by Bloomberg News, asked
investors and dealers about their expectations for the initial
size of any new program of debt purchases and the time over
which it would be completed.  Estimates for the size of the asset-purchase program
include forecasts for $1 trillion by Bank of America-Merrill
Lynch and $2 trillion by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., with
economists at both firms agreeing the Fed will likely start by
announcing $500 billion after its Nov. 2-3 meeting.  The central bank is likely to announce a program of bond
purchases worth a few hundred billion dollars over several
months, the Wall Street Journal reported this week, without
saying where it obtained the information.  The  greenback  is on the “strong side” relative to U.S.
economic performance, the International Monetary Fund said in a
report to Group of 20 nations.  ‘Broadly in Line’  The euro, yen and pound “all appear broadly in line with
medium-term fundamentals,” the IMF said in its report
yesterday. Emerging economies with current-account surpluses
need to begin to allow exchange-rate appreciation “in earnest”
to play their part in rebalancing global demand, according to
the IMF.  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, decreased 0.2
percent to 77.182 today.  Australia’s currency fell for a third day against the yen
as traders cut to 26 percent the chance that the Reserve Bank of
Australia will increase rates next week. Data on Oct. 27 showed
the nation’s consumer price index rose in the third quarter by
less than economists had forecast.  “With CPI being more benign than the market expected, it
raises doubts whether the RBA is going to hike next week,” said
Thomas Averill, a Sydney-based director at Rochford Capital, a
currency and interest-rates risk management firm.  Benchmark interest rates are 4.5 percent in  Australia  and 3
percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the U.S.
and Japan, attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that currency
market moves will erase profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  