-- Dollar Slumps Against Yen, Euro on Speculation Federal Reserve Will Ease
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-10-28T21:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/dollar-weakens-versus-euro-on-asian-stock-advance-global-recovery-outlook.html
The dollar fell against all of its
most-traded counterparts on renewed demand for higher-returning
assets as traders speculated the Federal Reserve will debase the
currency by buying government debt.  The U.S. currency dropped for the first time in three days
against the euro as Treasury notes rose after policy makers
asked dealers for projections of asset purchases over the next
six months. The dollar is on the “strong side” relative to
U.S. economic performance, the International Monetary Fund said
in a report to Group of 20 nations.  “The market knows one main way how to trade, which is
short dollar, long risk,” said  Sebastien Galy , a currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York. “For now, it has not
been significantly shaken out of its assumption.” A short is a
bet a currency will decline.  The dollar depreciated 1.2 percent to $1.3930 per euro at 5
p.m. in New York, from $1.3769 yesterday. The U.S. currency fell
0.9 percent to 81.03 yen, from 81.75 yen, after touching the 15-
year low of 80.41 yen on Oct. 25. The euro gained 0.3 percent to
112.87 yen, from 112.58 yen.  The euro extended its advance as automatic orders were
activated to stop losses for investors betting on a dollar
rally, according to  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York.  Stop orders were clustered above $1.38, $1.3850 and $1.39
per euro, Franulovich said. The next orders may be at $1.3980,
he said. Traders place buy and sell orders at predetermined
prices to limit losses.  Treasury Yield  The  yield  on the 10-year Treasury note fell 0.06 percentage
point to 2.66 percent. Stocks pared gains, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rising 0.1 percent.  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, decreased 1.1
percent to 77.285. It touched 78.273 yesterday, the highest
level since Oct. 20.  A New York Fed survey, obtained by Bloomberg News, asked
investors and dealers about their expectations for the initial
size of any new program of debt purchases and the time over
which it would be completed.  Estimates for the size of the asset-purchase program
include forecasts for $1 trillion by Bank of America-Merrill
Lynch and $2 trillion by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., with
economists at both firms agreeing the Fed will likely start by
announcing $500 billion after its Nov. 2-3 meeting.  The central bank is likely to announce a program of bond
purchases worth a few hundred billion dollars over several
months, the Wall Street Journal reported this week, without
saying where it obtained the information.  Goldman Sachs View  Goldman Sachs reiterated in a research note its forecast
for a further 5 percent drop in the dollar “on a broad, trade-
weighted basis” over the next 12 months.  “The dollar needs to fall a lot further -- even after
recent declines -- to contribute to raising inflation towards
the Fed’s desired level,”  Robin Brooks  and  Roman Maranets ,
currency strategists at Goldman Sachs in New York, wrote in a
research note.  The Bank of Japan signaled concern that U.S. easing will
cause its currency to appreciate by bringing forward the date of
its next policy meeting to follow next week’s Fed decision.  “The Japanese have themselves a very difficult problem,”
said  John Taylor , chairman and founder of FX Concepts LLC, in an
interview with  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside
Track” program. “You’re hearing the major exporters from Japan
make comments about what kind of levels they can tolerate, and
we’re also seeing them act in the market and prepare themselves
for a stronger yen.”  Japan’s Intervention  Japan’s currency has appreciated more than 5 percent since
authorities acknowledged on Sept. 15 intervening for the first
time in six years to help exporters by selling the yen.  The yen has gained 3.1 percent in October in the biggest
increase against the dollar among the 16-most traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. Brazil’s real has dropped the most this
month, falling 1 percent to 1.7042 as the government raised
taxes on foreigners’ fixed-income purchases.  China’s yuan fell to its weakest level this month after the
central bank set a lower reference rate for a third day,
spurring speculation the government is limiting appreciation.
The People’s Bank of China set the reference rate 0.11 percent
weaker at 6.6986 against the greenback.  The yuan has depreciated 0.5 percent since G-20 policy
makers said on Oct. 23 that they would refrain from
“competitive devaluation” before the Nov. 11-12 leaders’
summit.  The euro, yen and pound “all appear broadly in line with
medium-term fundamentals,” the IMF said in its report. Emerging
economies with current-account surpluses need to begin to allow
exchange-rate appreciation “in earnest” to play their part in
rebalancing global demand, according to the IMF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  