-- Dongfeng Motor's Nine-Month Profit Rises to $1.3 Billion on China Car Boom
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-28T12:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/dongfeng-motor-s-nine-month-profit-rises-to-1-3-billion-on-china-car-boom.html
Dongfeng Motor Group Co. , the
Chinese partner of  Nissan Motor Co. , almost doubled nine-month
profit as economic growth spurred demand for cars.  Net income  rose to 8.61 billion yuan ($1.3 billion) from
4.63 billion yuan a year earlier, the company said in a Hong
Kong stock exchange statement today. Third-quarter profit was
little changed at 2.08 billion yuan, according to figures
derived from the nine-month results.  Dongfeng, the biggest automaker listed in Hong Kong, sold
more cars with its foreign partners as rising affluence in the
world’s largest car market boosted consumer demand. New model
introductions in 2011 will continue to drive earnings, according
to  Frank Li , a Hong Kong-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “It has a proven track record of growing core earnings
both in the upturn and downturn of the cycle,” Li wrote in an
Oct. 26 report.  Wuhan, Hubei-based Dongfeng, also a partner of  Honda Motor
Co.  and  PSA Peugeot Citroen , has a breadth of competitive
products offerings that protect it against downturns in specific
segments, Li said.  China Sales  Dongfeng  fell 4 percent to close at HK$16.12 in Hong Kong
today. The stock has risen 44 percent this year, compared with a
6 percent rise in the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Auto sales in China may reach 17 million units this year,
Zhu Hongren, the Ministry of Industry and Information
Technology’s chief engineer, said in Beijing today. Car sales
gained 19 percent in September, according to the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  Dongfeng’s sales in the first nine months rose 39 percent,
outperforming the 31 percent growth in the overall Chinese
market, according to Citigroup Inc. analysts  Gerwin Ho  and  Ross Wei . The automaker’s deliveries will continue to grow faster
than the car market as the company and its partners add new
models, they said.  Operating revenue was 4.64 billion yuan in the first nine
months, Dongfeng said today. Yokohama-based Nissan, which  makes
the Teana sedan with its Chinese partner, plans to introduce a
new passenger-car brand, Qi Chen, in 2012 with Dongfeng to help
meet demand for cheaper models on the mainland.  -- Liza Lin . Editors:  Kae Inoue ,  Ian Rowley ,  Vipin V. Nair   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liza Lin  in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  