-- Dow Chemical Profit Tops Estimates on Plastic Sales
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-10-28T14:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/dow-chemical-profit-tops-estimates-on-plastic-sales.html
Dow Chemical Co. , the world’s
second-biggest chemical maker, said third-quarter earnings
dropped less than analysts estimated as sales of specialty
products and commodity plastics increased.  Net income fell 25 percent to $597 million, or 45 cents a
share, from $796 million, or 63 cents, a year earlier, Dow said
today in a statement. Profit excluding some items was 54 cents a
share, topping the 41-cent  average estimate  of 12 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  bought  Rohm & Haas
Co.  last year to add specialty chemical units that deliver
higher, consistent earnings. Adjusted profit rose 30 percent in
performance systems and performance products units, which make
auto plastics and foams, construction cable and heat-transfer
fluids. Profit also jumped in basic chemicals and plastics.  “These were strong results,”  Robert Koort , a Houston-
based  analyst  at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in a report.
“Much of the outperformance came from the commodity
businesses.” Koort has a neutral rating on the shares.  Dow fell 54 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $30.67 at 10:30 a.m.
in New York Stock Exchange  composite trading . The shares gained
13 percent this year through yesterday.  Net income in the quarter was reduced by 9 cents a share
from costs to integrate Rohm & Haas, an adjustment on the sale
of the Styron unit, labor litigation in Latin America and debt
refinancing costs, said  Bob Plishka , a spokesman for Midland,
Michigan-based Dow. Asset sales and other one-time items boosted
earnings in the third quarter of last year by 39 cents a share.  Segment Sales Gain  Overall sales rose 6.8 percent to $12.9 billion. Excluding
divestitures, revenue gained in all of Dow’s  operating segments ,
as the company raised average prices 9 percent and volumes rose
14 percent from a year earlier. Higher prices more than made up
for a $585 million increase in costs for energy and raw
materials, Dow said.  Revenue gains were led by a 27 percent increase in North
America, a 24 percent jump in Latin America and a 23 percent
increase in the region that includes Europe. Sales in emerging
economies climbed 19 percent to more than $4 billion, a company
record, Dow said.  “A sustained global economic recovery, led by emerging
economies, is firming,” Liveris said in the statement. “We are
also encouraged to see signs of improved growth in North America
and Europe, especially Germany.”  End-Market ‘Strength’  End markets such as electronics, coatings and packaging
“continue to show strength” in the face of high unemployment
and weak construction spending, he said. Growth in developed
markets will slow “slightly” from the first half, he said.  Earnings from basic plastics rose to $731 million amid
higher sales of polyethylene, the world’s most-used plastic,
which is found in grocery bags and packaging. Dow’s raw-material
costs benefited from cheap ethane, a natural gas derivative,
relative to oil, the main feedstock used in Europe and Asia.  Jeffrey Zekauskas , a New York-based analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said in a report that basic plastics accounted for
all of Dow’s outperformance versus his estimates.  The improvement in plastics wasn’t a surprise, because of
the cheap ethane, said  Don Carson , a New York-based analyst at
Susquehanna Financial Group.  Profit from basic chemicals surged to $181 million from $8
million, excluding divestures, amid higher sales of chlorine,
caustic soda and vinyl. The unit was responsible for most of the
earnings beat versus estimates at Susquehanna, Carson said.  “After basic chemicals, performance products did
particularly well,” Carson said in a telephone interview.  Performance Products  Profit jumped 44 percent in performance products, which
makes epoxy and propylene glycol, excluding a $140 million gain
last year from the sale of Dow’s stake in the Optimal Group of
Companies. Earnings rose 9.2 percent in the performance-systems
unit, which makes materials for autos and packaging, excluding a
$1 million gain from the Optimal sale.  “The upside was driven by strong results in performance
products and performance systems,”  David Begleiter , a New York-
based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a report. Basic
plastics also contributed to the earnings beat, he said.  Electronics and coatings, two divisions that primarily
comprise former Rohm & Haas units, contributed $651 million to
earnings. Profit rose 4.7 percent in the electronics and
specialty materials unit and 5.6 percent in the coatings
business.  Debt repayment helped cut Dow’s net debt to 44 percent of
total capitalization, from 46 percent.  Dow, founded in 1897 as a bleach maker, is the world’s
biggest producer of chlorine, epoxy resins, polyethylene plastic
and several intermediate chemicals such as propylene oxide.  BASF SE is the world’s largest chemical maker by sales last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 