-- Ruling DPJ May Derail Kan's Push for Japan to Join Pacific Trade Talks
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2010-10-28T04:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/dpj-may-derail-kan-s-push-to-join-pacific-trade-talks-to-protect-farmers.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s
desire to join nine-nation trade talks organized by the U.S. may
be thwarted by his own party amid concern the country’s farmers,
a key voting bloc, may lose out.  More than 100 members of the ruling  Democratic Party of
Japan  have signaled their opposition to the  Trans-Pacific
Partnership  because of the impact on the agriculture industry.
Obama administration officials last year said they hoped Japan,
Malaysia and South Korea would join the talks as the U.S. seeks
to counter China’s free-trade efforts in Asia.  Conflicting reports yesterday pointed to benefits and
drawbacks for Japan. While the Cabinet Office said the accord
would boost gross domestic product by as much as 3.2 trillion
yen ($39 billion), the agriculture ministry said the size of the
economy might fall by 7.9 trillion yen if tariffs on rice and 18
other farm products are lifted.  “This is an important issue that reflects how much Japan
should open up or stay closed,” DPJ lawmaker Tsuyoshi
Yamaguchi, who leads the party’s committee on free trade, said
yesterday in an interview. “Prime Minister Kan must make a
political decision because both views are correct. Joining the
TPP may damage agriculture but Japan should seek economic growth
by opening up.”  Japan protects its rice farmers from foreign competition by
imposing a 778 percent tariff on imports. The country agreed
during the Uruguay Round of world trade talks in 1993 to buy
770,000 tons a year from abroad. Under the TPP, rice imports
might surge by more than 1,000 percent as tariffs are lifted,
the agriculture ministry report said.  APEC Host  Kan, who last month  announced  Japan is considering joining
the TPP negotiations, will host the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation meeting next month in Yokohama. President Barack
Obama, who is pushing to increase U.S. exports, will attend the
summit.  The issue “is a landmine” for Kan, said  Yasunori Sone , a
political science professor at Keio University in Tokyo. “The
question is whether he can persuade his opponents in the party.
Failure to do so could threaten the government and raise
questions around the world about Japan."  The current negotiations involve New Zealand, Brunei,
Singapore, Chile, Australia, Vietnam, Malaysia, the U.S. and
Peru. Adding South Korea and Japan would help create the largest
U.S. trade accord since the  North American Free Trade Agreement 
took effect in 1994 with Canada and Mexico. The U.S. sold more
goods to Japan and South Korea last year than the current TPP
members combined.  Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  told reporters two days ago
‘‘the door is about to close’’ for Japan to influence the way
the deal is negotiated.  ‘‘Political procrastination can’t be allowed,’’ he said.  Former farm minister  Masahiko Yamada  heads the group of 110
DPJ lawmakers urging a ‘‘cautious approach.’’ He said yesterday
that Japan should ‘‘raise our food self-sufficiency ratio to 50
percent’’ from about 40 percent.  ‘‘We don’t want the government to be hasty in saying Japan
will join the agreement,’’ Yamada said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  