-- EU's Barnier Says Italian Exemption for Basel Tax Rule `Not Impossible'
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2010-10-28T16:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/draghi-calls-for-solution-on-impact-of-deferred-tax-rules-in-basel-iii.html
Italy may be exempted from new Basel
III rules on deferred-tax assets that its lenders say will
penalize them more than other European banks, European Union
Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  said.  An exemption for Italy is “not impossible, but I want to
do things logically and seriously,” Barnier, who is responsible
for translating the Basel proposals into EU law, told reporters
after a conference in New York today.  The  Basel Committee , which represents central banks and
regulators in 27 nations and sets capital standards for lenders,
announced new rules last month that aim to head off another
global banking crisis. The measures, known as Basel III, more
than doubled capital requirements for banks and limited how much
deferred-tax assets -- generally past losses that banks use to
offset taxes in future years -- could count toward capital.  Bank of Italy Governor  Mario Draghi  said today the rules on
deferred-tax assets threaten to hurt Italian banks. Draghi, who
is charged with regulating Italian banks, also heads the
 Financial Stability Board , which includes the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision that is drawing up the new capital rules.  “Work needs to be done in the coming months on a solution
to this problem,” Draghi said in a speech in Rome. “We need
both to avoid a competitive disadvantage for our intermediaries
and to safeguard public finances in the medium term.” Draghi
didn’t offer any specifics.  Italian Difference  Unlike in most other countries, deferred taxes for Italian
banks “don’t derive from previous losses,”  Giuseppe Mussari ,
head of Italy’s banking association, said at the same conference
in Rome. “It’s in everybody’s interest” to find a solution to
the issue as it “indirectly concerns the entire economy.”  Barnier said he hadn’t received any formal request from
Italy for an exemption. “I can take into account certain
specific situations and the Basel committee also is taking into
account specific situations,” he said.  Giuseppe Guzzetti , head of the Italian bank-foundation
industry group ACRI, said that “a modification, even gradual,
of the dispositions that can weaken the competitive capacity of
our banking system” should be considered. “I am referring
above all to the issue of deferred taxes.”  The Basel Committee softened some of its proposed capital
rules in July, agreeing to allow minority stakes in other
financial firms, deferred-tax assets and mortgage-servicing
rights to count as capital up to a point. The total for all
three could not exceed 15 percent of a lender’s common equity.  The Basel Committee is planning to present a final package
of changes to the G-20 meeting in Seoul in November.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  