-- Mediobanca Net Falls Less Than Estimated, as All Divisions Make a Profit
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2010-10-28T14:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/mediobanca-net-falls-less-than-estimated-as-all-divisions-make-a-profit.html
Mediobanca SpA,  Italy’s biggest
publicly traded investment bank, posted a smaller decline in
quarterly earnings than analysts estimated, as all of its units
turned a profit for the first time in 18 months.  Net income fell to 128 million euros ($177 million) in
the three months ended Sept. 30, from 201 million euros a year
earlier, the Milan-based lender said in a statement today.
Analysts estimated the bank would report net income of
99 million euros, according to  eight surveyed  by Bloomberg.  The results show a “recovery in the group’s profitability,
with all divisions posting improved results quarter-on-
quarter,” the lender said. Net interest income rose 23 percent
to 214 million euros in the period on “widening net margins in
corporate finance, and the reduced cost of funding against
higher lending volumes in retail financial services.”  Mediobanca is trying to expand outside its home market by
taking advantage of lower asset prices after the credit crunch,
and is diversifying its product offerings to boost revenue.
Chief Executive Officer  Alberto Nagel , who last month said the
investment bank doesn’t have any concerns about funding, aims to
continue paying dividends for the current year.  “The lender may consider acquisitions in private banking
or consumer credit,” Nagel said at a meeting of the bank’s
shareholders today. “We will evaluate any opportunity in those
sectors,” he said, adding that he doesn’t see any merger
opportunities in investment banking.  Shares Gain  Mediobanca climbed 19.5 cents, or 2.6 percent, to
7.57 euros at 4 p.m. in Milan, giving it a market value of about
6.5 billion euros. The company is scheduled to hold a conference
call at 6 p.m. local time.  Net trading income in the quarter slumped 70 percent
to 80 million euros, while net fees and commissions declined
22 percent to 113 million euros. Loan-loss provisions fell
20 percent to 112 million euros.  “The year-on-year drop in trading reflects extraordinary
gains of about 100 million euros from AFS disposals a year
earlier,” said  Aldo Comi , a London-based analyst at Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods with an “outperform” rating on Mediobanca.  The company’s core Tier 1 ratio, a key measure of financial
strength, was unchanged at 11.1 percent at the end of September.
“Ratios are adequate,” Nagel said, adding that the bank
doesn’t need to boost capital to meet Basel III rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  