-- Telstra to Cut 950 Executive, Middle Management Jobs to Simplify Business
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-10-28T06:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/telstra-to-cut-950-executive-middle-management-jobs-to-simplify-business.html
Telstra Corp. , Australia’s largest
phone company, will eliminate 950 mostly management jobs in its
second round of executive firings in three months under a plan
to reduce costs and retain customers.  Most of the cuts will come from state capital city offices
and are part of Chief Executive Officer  David Thodey ’s efforts
to boost customer service and win back clients, Melbourne-based
Telstra  said  today in a statement. The job losses represent 2.1
percent of the 45,200 employees the company had as of June 30.  Thodey cut Telstra’s full-year earnings forecast in August
as he boosts spending to open call centers and upgrade
technology systems at the former government-owned monopoly.
Telstra said today it will create a unified consumer business to
be led by Andy Ellis, formerly head of retail, that combines its
regional businesses with sales outlets across the country.  “Telstra’s simpler new operating model will shift
decision-making from head office to local managers,” Thodey
said in the statement. “Telstra will now be organized as a
sales and marketing company that is faster to market and more
focused on our customers.”  Telstra  rose 1.1 percent to A$2.71 at the 4:10 p.m. market
close in Sydney. The stock has  lost  21 percent this year
compared with a 3.8 percent decline in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
index.  Assistance and Compensation  Telstra, which eliminated 330 senior management roles in
July, said employees affected in the latest round of cuts will
receive assistance and redundancy payments. The company has
already made about A$220 million ($215 million) in redundancy
provisions for the year ending June 2011.  The carrier, the Australian market leader in mobile,
Internet and phone services, aims to stem customer defections to
rivals such as  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd .’s Optus unit.  Telstra is also preparing for the loss of its copper fixed-
line assets to the Australian government’s planned A$43 billion
national broadband fiber network in exchange for about A$11
billion in compensation. The company will have to compete with
other providers in fixed-line services once the national network
known as NBN is complete in 2018, with the government project to
be the monopoly provider.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  