-- Embryonic Stem-Cell Opponents Urge Federal Appeals Court to Bar Funding
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-10-28T19:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/embryonic-stem-cell-opponents-urge-federal-appeals-court-to-bar-funding.html
Embryonic stem-cell research is
illegal and funding for it should be barred, a group of
scientists who oppose the studies told the U.S. Court of Appeals
in Washington.  The opponents, researchers who work with adult stem cells,
are “suffering irreparable harm from the illegal competition”
and permanent loss of federal funds, according to a brief they
filed today. The appeals court hasn’t scheduled arguments on the
dispute.  The appeals court last month put on hold a lower-court
ruling that cut off funding for embryonic stem-cell research
after the government argued that it would harm researchers,
taxpayers and scientific progress. The appellate court said the
funding could continue during the appeal.  Lifting the ban allows the government to temporarily
continue to funnel tens of millions of dollars to scientists
seeking cures for diseases such as Parkinson’s, spinal cord
injuries, and genetic conditions. Embryonic stem cells can grow
into any kind of tissue. Adult stem cells, found in mature
tissue, are more limited in their ability to differentiate into
other cell types.  In today’s filing, the opponents cited the still-in-force
1996 Dickey-Wicker Amendment, saying that Congress prohibited
funding any research in which a human embryo was destroyed. By
implication, that included all embryonic stem-cell research,
lawyers argued.  The federal government is scheduled to file a reply next
week. In March 2009, President  Barack Obama  reversed an
executive order of former President  George W. Bush , allowing
research on cells derived from embryos that would otherwise be
disposed of after in-vitro fertilization procedures.  The case is Sherley v. Sebelius, 10-5287, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington
at   bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 