-- Emerging Equities Rise as Bank of China, Unimicron Post Increased Earnings
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 2010-10-28T07:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/emerging-equities-rise-as-bank-of-china-unimicron-post-increased-earnings.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, lifting
the benchmark index from its sharpest loss since August, after
companies reported higher earnings.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose 0.3 percent to
1,101.74 at 2:58 p.m. in Singapore, rebounding from yesterday’s
1.6 percent retreat. A measure of technology stocks advanced 1.9
percent, the most among the gauge’s 10 industry groups.  Bank of China Ltd.  climbed in Hong Kong as third-quarter
profit beat analysts’ estimates. Unimicron Technology Corp., a
Taiwanese maker of printed circuit boards, jumped by the daily
maximum after posting a 57 percent profit gain. Lotte Shopping
Co., South Korea’s biggest department store owner, had its
steepest gain in a month after saying it increased earnings by
26 percent in the three months ended September.  “Emerging markets have outperformed on expectations of
faster economic and earnings growth,” said  Paul Joseph Garcia ,
who helps manage $1.86 billion as chief investment officer at
ING Investment Management Ltd.’s Manila unit.  The MSCI emerging nations’ gauge has climbed 11 percent
this year, almost three times the 4.3 percent gain in the MSCI
World Index of shares in developed markets. Investors are
banking on developing economies’ higher growth rates to yield
better returns amid near-zero U.S. borrowing costs.  Bank of China advanced 1.8 percent after its profit surged
29 percent to a record 27.2 billion yuan, beating the 23.9
billion yuan median estimate of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The  MSCI China Index , tracking mainly Hong Kong-
traded shares of Chinese companies, increased 0.1 percent.  Sensex, Bharti  India’s  Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index  climbed 0.2
percent as Bharti Airtel Ltd. gained the most in a week after an
Economic Times report that the mobile-phone operator and Aircel
Cellular Ltd. may buy the planned Indian wireless broadband
business of Qualcomm Inc.  Taiwan’s Taiex Index rose 0.8 percent to the highest since
Jan. 15. Unimicron Technology jumped 6.9 percent after third-
quarter profit surged to NT$2.10 billion ($69 million).  Lotte Shopping  rose 4.5 percent after  LIG Investment &
Securities Co. analyst Lee Ji Young said the earnings topped
consensus estimates.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  decreased 0.6 percent
after the bourse announced revisions to the index.  San Miguel
Corp.,  the largest Philippine food and drinks company, sank 5.3
percent, the sharpest loss since Aug. 5, after the bourse said
it was among three companies that will be deleted from the index
on Nov. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  