-- Enel Cuts Price of Renewables IPO After Buyers Balk at Valuation
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2010-10-28T14:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/enel-cuts-price-of-renewables-ipo-after-buyers-balk-update1-.html
Enel SpA  cut the valuation of the
renewable energy unit it’s selling in an initial public offering
to 8 billion euros ($11.1 billion) after money managers balked
at the price because it was too high compared with competitors.  Italy’s biggest utility is offering shares in Enel Green
Power SpA for 1.60 euros to 2.10 euros each, the company said in
a statement today. Enel had been selling the stock for 1.80
euros to 2.10 euros earlier. The shares are on sale to
institutional and individual investors until tomorrow.  Enel is selling about one-third of the operator of wind,
solar and hydro-electric power plants to help cut its 54 billion
euros of borrowings. The original price range was higher than
what at least four of the banks managing the sale advised Enel
to proceed with, five people familiar with the sale said Oct.
21. The shares are also likely to trade at a discount to their
peers in the wind power industry, UBS AG analysts said in a note
to clients yesterday.  “This is a good move, and certainly makes the IPO more
attractive,” said Zurich-based  Thiemo Lang , who oversees about
$1.4 billion of clean-energy holdings for the SAM Smart Energy
Fund. “You’ll need to offer a very competitive valuation now
that the sector is not looking extremely hot at the moment.”  Spain’s  Iberdrola Renovables SA  has dropped 55 percent
since its IPO in December 2007, while  EDP Renovaveis SA  has
tumbled 48 percent since going public in June 2008.  ‘Better Balance’  Enel set the new price range for a “better balance between
retail shareholders and institutional investors,” the Rome-
based utility said in the statement.  The stock climbed 1.6 percent to 4.09 euros as of 4:30 p.m.
in Milan trading. The company will benefit from cutting debt
even if it sells shares below the original price range, UBS
analysts said in their note.  At the bottom of the original price range, or 1.8 euros a
share, the IPO valued Enel Green Power at an enterprise value of
9.7 times the company’s earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda. That’s in line with
Iberdrola Renovables and below EDP Renovaveis, according to MF
Global analysts including  Ashley Thomas .  Bank of America Corp., Intesa Sanpaolo SpA’s Banca IMI SpA,
Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Mediobanca SpA, Morgan Stanley, UniCredit
SpA and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA are managing the IPO.  EGP Chairman  Luigi Ferraris  and Chief Executive Officer
 Francesco Starace  reserved 80,000 shares each, the company said
yesterday. Enel Chairman  Piero Gnudi  and Chief Executive Officer
 Fulvio Conti  ordered 100,000 shares each last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 