-- Enel Cuts Valuation of Renewables Unit IPO After Investors Balk
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2010-10-28T09:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/enel-reduces-price-for-green-power-initial-offering-to-bottom-end-of-range.html
Enel SpA  cut the valuation of the
renewable energy unit it’s selling in an initial public offering
to 8 billion euros ($11.1 billion) after money managers balked
at the price because it was too high compared with competitors.  Italy’s biggest utility is offering shares in Enel Green
Power SpA for 1.60 euros to 2.10 euros each, according to a
term-sheet for the IPO published today. Enel had been selling
the stock for 1.80 euros to 2.10 euros earlier. The shares are
on sale to institutional and individual investors until Oct. 29.  Enel is selling about a third of the operator of wind,
solar and hydro-electric power plants to help cut its 54 billion
euros of borrowings. The original price range was higher than at
least four of the banks managing the sale advised Enel, five
people familiar with the sale said Oct. 21. The shares are also
likely to trade at a discount to their peers in the wind power
industry, UBS AG analysts said in a note to clients yesterday.  “This is a good move, and certainly makes the IPO more
attractive,” said Zurich-based  Thiemo Lang , who oversees about
$1.4 billion of clean-energy holdings for the SAM Smart Energy
Fund. “You’ll need to offer a very competitive valuation now
that the sector is not looking extremely hot at the moment.”  Spain’s Iberdrola Renovables SA has dropped 55 percent
since its IPO in December 2007 while EDP Renovaveis SA has
tumbled 48 percent since going public in June 2008.  Officials at Rome-based Enel weren’t immediately available
to comment today. Enel was up 0.9 percent at 4.06 euros as of
11:37 a.m. in Milan trading. Enel will benefit from cutting debt
even if it sells shares of below the original price range, UBS
analysts said in their note.  Enterprise Value  At the bottom of the original price range, or 1.8 euros a
share, the IPO valued Enel Green Power at an enterprise value of
9.7 times the company’s earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda. That’s in line with
Iberdrola Renovables and below EDP Renovaveis, according to MF
Global analysts including  Ashley Thomas .  Bank of America Corp., Intesa Sanpaolo’s Banca IMI SpA,
Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Mediobanca SpA, Morgan Stanley, UniCredit
SpA and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA are managing the IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
 Zijing Wu  in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 