-- Energizer Resources Plans More Talks in China on Madagascar Vanadium Mine
-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 2010-10-28T13:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/energizer-plans-more-talks-in-china-on-madagascar-vanadium-mine.html
Energizer Resources Inc. , the
Canadian mineral-exploration company, will hold a second round
of talks with a Chinese company about becoming a strategic
partner in a vanadium project in  Madagascar .  Energizer expects to announce “in coming weeks” that its
Green Giant project in the south of the Indian Ocean island has
estimated resources of as much as 60 million metric tons of
vanadium pentoxide,  Brent Nykoliation , vice president of
business development at the Toronto-based company, said in a
phone interview on Oct. 26.  The company said this year the deposit had  estimated
resources  of about 26 million tons of the metal, which is used
to harden steel and to make batteries.  Madagascar’s oil and mineral wealth has attracted
international investors including  Rio Tinto Plc , the world’s
third-biggest mining company, which owns a $1 billion ilmenite
project in the southeast of the country. Canada’s  Sherritt
International Corp.  is developing a deposit 80 kilometers (50
miles) east of Antananarivo, the capital, that is set to produce
60,000 metric tons of “high-grade” nickel annually for at
least 27 years, according to the company’s website.  Last year, the government suspended issuing mining permits
amid a political crisis that began when President  Andry Rajoelina  ousted his predecessor,  Marc Ravalomanana , with the
help of the army. Energizer’s discussions with the Malagasy
government over a mining permit are continuing, Nykoliation
said.  Energizer  shares  rose 3 cents, or 9.7 percent, to C$0.34 at
9:47 a.m. in Toronto. The price of pentoxide containing 98
percent vanadium has risen 9.5 percent so far this year to $6.95
per pound, according to Metal Bulletin.  Output in 2014  The Green Giant mine is expected to begin output in 2014,
Nykoliation said. Global production of vanadium pentoxide is
currently 107,000 tons and if the resource estimate is
confirmed, Energizer would have 13 percent of the world’s
current supply, he said. That would enable the company to
compete with suppliers including  Evraz Highveld Steel and
Vanadium Ltd.  in South Africa.  Green Giant is “one of the largest vanadium deposits in
the world and it is 100 percent owned,” Nykoliation said.  Energizer’s strategy is to “find a strategic joint-venture
partner in the battery industry and the steel industry as our
project is unique in being able to supply both,” Nykoliation
said. The company has already held a first round of talks with a
potential partner in China, Nykoliation said.  “China and Japan have been mandated by their governments
to increase the strength of steel in their buildings,” said
Nykoliation. “China and India are consuming steel like you
wouldn’t believe.”  South Africa is the world’s biggest vanadium producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hannah McNeish  in Antananarivo via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  