-- Eni Posts $2.38 Billion Third-Quarter Profit, Beating Analysts' Estimates
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2010-10-28T15:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/eni-s-earnings-beat-expectations-in-third-quarter-after-oil-prices-climb.html
Eni SpA , Italy’s largest oil and
natural gas company, said third-quarter profit gained 48
percent, beating analysts’ estimates, as crude prices rose.  Adjusted net income increased to 1.70 billion euros ($2.35
billion) from 1.15 billion euros a year earlier, the Rome-based
company said today, surpassing the 1.34 billion-euro average
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 16 analysts.  “Eni has achieved excellent results against a backdrop of
ongoing challenging conditions in the gas market,” Chief
Executive  Paolo Scaroni  said. “I’m confident that the 2010 full
year results will show a marked improvement on last year.”  The company is investing to boost output as existing fields
decline, including $18 billion in projects in Venezuela, almost
$1 billion a year with partners in Iraq, and is expanding in
Africa after buying blocks in the Democratic Republic of Congo
and Togo this year.  Oil and gas production was little changed at 1.7 million
barrels of oil equivalent a day and production for the full year
is seen “in line” with 2009, Eni said. Benchmark European oil
futures averaged $76.96 a barrel in the quarter, up 12 percent
from a year earlier.  The company’s net income rose 39 percent to 1.72 billion
euros. Adjusted net profit excludes inventory holding gains or
losses and special items.  Shares Gain  “Stunning results,” said  Jason Kenney , head of oil and
gas research at ING Commercial Banking in Edinburgh. “The
upstream business came in significantly above expectations
thanks to currency gains and lower taxation.”  He has a “hold” rating on the stock.  The shares rose 44 cents, or 2.8 percent, to 16.15 euros as
of 5:35 p.m. in Milan. The stock is down 9 percent this year,
compared with a 1.5 percent decline in the  MSCI World/Energy
index .  Sales of natural gas fell 17.4 percent in the quarter to
18.6 billion cubic meters. For the full year, the company
forecast lower worldwide sales due to “increasing competitive
pressures mainly in Italy,” according to the statement.  “The weakness of gas and power is beginning to look like a
structural feature so we will be looking for some guidance on
that from the company,” Kenney said.  Libya Talks  Renegotiations of gas procurement contracts with Libya are
in the final stages,  Domenico Dispenza , head the gas and power
division, said in a conference call with analysts today. He said
the high price paid for gas on long-term contracts is among
factors hurting the gas business.  Dispenza confirmed a target of 3.7 billion euros on
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization for
the gas and power business.  Regarding negotiations on Eni’s Karachaganak oil venture
with BG Plc in Kazakhstan,  Claudio Descalzi , head of the
exploration and production division, said the company hopes to
complete talks by year end.  The company’s capital expenditure for 2010 is likely to be
around 15 billion euros in 2010 with 20 percent to be spent in
Italy, Chief Financial Officer  Alessandro Bernini  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alessandra Migliaccio  in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy@bloomberg.net . 