-- Merkel's Deficit Cuts Win Bundesbank Praise, Airline Anger as Vote Nears
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2010-10-28T15:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/merkel-s-deficit-cuts-win-bundesbank-praise-airline-anger-as-vote-nears.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
coalition is poised to pass deficit-cutting measures that have
been praised as a model by the  Bundesbank  and berated by
airlines as arbitrary and damaging to sales.  The package, scheduled to be voted on by lower-house
lawmakers in Berlin later today, aims to shave 20 billion euros
($28 billion) from the federal deficit by 2014. The Bundesbank
has said the step sets an “example in the euro-region.” Low-
cost carrier  Ryanair Holdings Plc . said yesterday it will reduce
flights to German routes when a tax on tickets that is part of
the package begins on Jan. 1.  The mix of cuts and revenue-raising steps folds into a
broader savings program unveiled in June as Merkel urged
European nations to tackle budget deficits to stem a debt crisis
spreading from Greece and save the euro. The program announced
was worth 81.6 billion euros, less than a quarter of the value
outlined in the bill. The difference will be made up in spending
cuts in successive budgets to 2014, the bill’s  preamble  said.  “The bill marks a fundamental change in budget policy,”
Deputy Finance Minister  Steffen Kampeter  told parliament’s
Budget Committee this week, rejecting opposition criticism over
the discrepancy.  The government can rely on its majority to pass the
legislation. It was scheduled for a vote at about 3 p.m. and was
delayed after a debate on nuclear policy overran by more than
four hours.  Deficit Comparisons  The Finance Ministry pledged in July to cut Germany’s
overall deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2012
to comply with European Union rules. Germany, which balanced the
budget in 2008, ran a deficit of 3 percent in 2009 and targets 4
percent this year after stimulus spending and bank bailouts
during the crisis. That compares with 7.7 percent in France, 9.3
percent in Spain and 32 percent in Ireland.  The government aims to make savings of 3.7 billion euros
this year at all three levels of government, rising to 5.1
billion euros in 2014. The bill includes cuts in welfare
benefits, scrapping some exemptions in energy tax and a variable
tax of 8 euros to 45 euros on all tickets from German airports.  Ryanair said yesterday it will scrap nine routes next year
from its Frankfurt Hahn base in response to the ticket tax.  “With tickets now on average costing 35 euros, a flight
levy of 8 euros marks a jump in prices of over 20 percent,”
Frankfurt-based Ryanair manager  Michael Cawley  was cited as
saying in Die Welt newspaper. “That’s too much for our price-
conscious customers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  