-- EU Bows to German Call for Permanent Debt Mechanism
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-10-29T14:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/merkel-makes-little-progress-on-changing-eu-rules-to-curb-biggest-deficits.html
European Union leaders endorsed
German calls for a rewrite of EU treaties to create a permanent
debt-crisis mechanism, while sparring over whether to force
bondholders to help pay the bill for rescuing financially
distressed states.  As the biggest contributor to this year’s hastily arranged
860 billion euros ($1.2 trillion) in loans and pledges to stem
the debt crisis, Germany won backing to set up a permanent
system by 2013. Deficit-strapped Spain warned that provisions to
reschedule or cancel some debts would expose its markets to
renewed selling pressure.  “We won’t allow only the taxpayers to bear all the costs
of a future crisis,” German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  told a
press conference in Brussels today after a summit of EU leaders.
There is “a justified desire to see that it’s not just
taxpayers who are on the hook, but also private investors.”  Speculation that Germany, the 16-nation euro region’s
largest economy, will get its way spurred declines in bonds in
Greece, Ireland and Portugal, in a reminder that Europe has yet
to overcome the crisis that shook the currency’s foundations six
months ago.  Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  of Spain, whose
country has Europe’s second-highest deficit, said he is “very
cautious about the inclusion of the private sector in the
mechanism.”  December Deadline  EU leaders said the structure of the system remains open,
setting a December deadline for the European Commission to
sketch out how it might work, to study how to treat private
bondholders and whether to involve the International Monetary
Fund. EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  will devise a way to embed
the new system in the bloc’s governing treaties.  Ten-year bonds in Greece, saved from the brink of default
by EU and IMF loans in May, fell, pushing the extra yield over
German debt to 808 basis points, the highest since Sept. 30. The
spread over German bunds is now 342 basis points for Portuguese
bonds and 443 basis points for Irish bonds.  “The immediate reaction has been negative for all the
peripheral countries,” said  Christoph Kind , who helps invest
about $20 billion as head of asset allocation at Frankfurt Trust
in Frankfurt. “The proposal is very important and the market is
pricing in the danger that it may be realized at some point.”  Germany rules out extending this year’s emergency taxpayer-
funded financial assistance mechanisms when they expire in 2013.
Merkel’s follow-up system would extend debt maturities, suspend
interest payments and waive creditor claims, Handelsblatt
newspaper reported yesterday, citing an unidentified government
official.  ‘Faults of Others’  “One has to be careful that this won’t chase away
investors in Europe where they could in the end pay up as well
through the faults of others,” said Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs the euro-region finance panel.
“The question on how far the private sector should be
included” in the crisis mechanism “is a very difficult
question that has to be addressed very cautiously.”  To avoid a constitutional fight in Germany, Merkel wants to
enshrine the crisis-management system in the EU’s treaties,
which were last amended in 2009 after eight years of bargaining
and referendum vetoes in three countries.  Germany pushed through an agreement to use a new fast-track
procedure that lets the EU fine-tune the governing treaty as
long as the amendments don’t transfer power from national
capitals to EU headquarters in Brussels.  Irish Vetoes  Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  of Ireland, which twice
triggered political logjams by vetoing EU treaties in
referendums, signed up to an amendment as long as it is done in
“as narrow and as simplified a way as possible.”  Merkel made less headway with calls to bar high-deficit
countries from voting on EU decisions, dramatizing the limits of
Germany’s power over the 27-nation bloc. Merkel found little
support for her proposed suspension of voting rights for
countries that repeatedly overshoot the euro’s budget-deficit
limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product.  Merkel tried a new tactic at the summit, saying that
existing provisions to suspend voting rights for governments
that trample EU values such as human rights and democracy could
be used to punish fiscal recklessness.  ‘No Agreement’  The result was “absolutely no agreement about this,”
Juncker said. “I’m very happy that the issue of voting rights
isn’t on the table but has been kicked down the road.” The EU
will still examine possible curbs on the euro countries’ voting
rights on economic decisions.  Germany’s leverage was undermined by a deal with France
last week to soften near-automatic sanctions on high-deficit
states under a separate set of proposals going through the EU
legislative process. That reversal awakened memories of moves by
the previous German and French governments to suspend the rules
in 2003 when they faced sanctions.  While last week’s sanctions compromise ran into criticism
from smaller countries and European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet , the broad outlines were backed at the summit. No
country has been fined in the euro’s almost 12-year history for
overstepping the deficit limit.  EU governments and the  European Parliament  will shape the
new legislation by the end of March. The parliament may try to
tighten the rules.  “Mrs. Merkel may think that economic governance hinges
upon a Franco-German agreement,”  Sharon Bowles  of the U.K.,
head of the parliament’s economic and monetary committee, said
in a statement. “We are not going to put a rubber stamp on any
backroom deals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  