-- Eskom Receives Additional $25 Billion in Debt Guarantees to Fund Expansion
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-10-28T13:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/eskom-receives-extra-25-billion-debt-guarantees-to-help-fund-expansion.html
South Africa will guarantee an
additional 176 billion-rand ($25 billion) of debt held by Eskom
Holdings Ltd. to lower the state-owned power utility’s borrowing
costs and help it fund its expansion plans.  That brings total guarantees provided by the government to
350 billion rand, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said. “This
will enable Eskom to continue with its entire build program
through to 2017,” he told lawmakers in Cape Town today.  Eskom is spending 485 billion-rand building plants to boost
electricity supply in Africa’s biggest economy and prevent a
repeat of outages that in early 2008 shut some of the nation’s
gold and platinum mines. The government has already given Eskom
a 60 billion-rand loan while the utility this year secured $3.75
billion from the World Bank to partly finance its Medupi plant.  The latest guarantee gives the “appropriate reassurances
to everyone concerned that government is standing by Eskom,”
Gordhan said. “The build program will reach its end hopefully
in the near-future and South Africa is guaranteed of energy
security.”  The largest plants in Eskom’s expansion are the Medupi and
Kusile coal-fired power plants. The first unit of Medupi, the
most-advanced project, is scheduled to start generating power in
the fourth quarter of 2012, while a lack of funds means Kusile
is now expected to start production at the beginning of 2015,
compared with an earlier forecast of June 2013.  ‘A Bit Stretched’  “Any doubts about Kusile and so on is now removed,” the
finance minister said today.  Extending the debt guarantees will allow Eskom to borrow at
“slightly lower rates,” said  Deon van Zyl , head of fixed
interest at Metropolitan Asset Managers in Cape Town. “The
government has come to the party,” he said by phone from the
city today. “Eskom’s balance sheet is a bit stretched.”  The yield on Eskom’s ES18 bond, due 2018, fell 10 basis
points, or 0.1 percentage points, to 8.23 percent as of 2:27
p.m. in Johannesburg, compared with South Africa’s R204 bond,
due in the same year, which yielded 7.88 percent.  “The government will issue guarantees, because it believes
that they wouldn’t be called on,” Lungisa Fuzile, the National
Treasury’s head of asset and liability management, told
lawmakers today. “We’re convinced that Eskom is actually a
financially sound entity. The energy that is going to be
generated by these new power stations should actually enable
Eskom to service its debts.”  Foreign Currency Rating  The utility, which provides about 95 percent of South
Africa’s power, would use the guarantee “depending on the cash
shortfall they have and how much borrowing they have to
undertake,” Fuzile told reporters. “The approval itself has
been given for the total amount.”  When pricing Eskom’s debt, rating agencies and lenders will
take into account the government, “which will step in if there
is trouble,” he said. Eskom has a BBB+ foreign-currency rating,
with a negative outlook, from Standard & Poor’s, while the
government is rated three levels higher, at A+.  Eskom is also aiming to finance its shortfall through
tariff increases of 25 percent this year and 26 percent in each
of the following two years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  