-- Tesla, Toyota in Talks on Electric RAV4 Assembly Plans
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2010-10-28T07:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/tesla-and-toyota-in-talks-on-electric-rav4-assembly-plans.html
Tesla Motors Inc. , a maker of
electric cars backed by  Toyota Motor Corp. , said the two
companies are considering whether to build battery-powered RAV4
sport-utility models at the U.S. automaker’s California plant.  “We’re discussing that with Toyota,” said  Gilbert Passin ,
Tesla’s vice president of manufacturing. “Stay tuned.”  Toyota, after buying a $50 million stake in Tesla this
year, said in July it would develop an electric version of the
compact RAV4 SUV with its new affiliate, procuring batteries,
motors and other components from the Silicon Valley startup.
Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, agreed to pay it $60
million to develop components for the project, Tesla said in a
filing this month.  The Toyota City, Japan-based carmaker has yet to announce
where the electric RAV4 will be built and how many it expects to
sell when the model arrives in 2012, said  Mike Michels , a U.S.
spokesman. Toyota has said it will show a prototype version of
the model at the Los Angeles auto show next month.  Shares in Toyota fell 1 percent to 2,881 yen in Tokyo
today.  Tesla, also partially owned by  Daimler AG , is already
supplying battery packs for electric versions of Daimler’s Smart
minicar and Mercedes A-Class small car.  Batteries, Motors, Inverters  Tesla’s supply arrangement for the electric RAV4 “will be
far more extensive,” including batteries, motors, inverters and
charging systems,  J.B. Straubel , Tesla’s chief technology
officer, said in an interview at the plant yesterday.  The company aims to begin making $54,700 electric Model S
sedans at the factory in Fremont in 2012, initially using a
fraction of the 5.5-million-square-foot factory’s capacity, the
company said.  Tesla’s goal is to build as many as 20,000 Model S cars a
year at its Fremont plant initially, eventually expanding to
50,000 with model variations derived from the same basic
platform, Passin said. Production will grow as the company
develops lower priced models for mass-market buyers, he said.
The plant has capacity to make as many as 500,000 vehicles a
year, Tesla said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue in Tokyo at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  