-- MetLife Swings to Profit on Derivatives, Misses Estimates
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-10-28T20:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/metlife-has-profit-as-derivatives-loss-narrows-misses-estimates.html
MetLife Inc. , the  biggest  U.S. life
insurer, swung to a profit in the third quarter as the company’s
derivative losses narrowed. The stock declined in late trading
as results fell short of analysts’ estimates.  Net income  in the three months ended Sept. 30 was $316
million, or 32 cents a share, compared with a loss of $620
million, or 79 cents, in the same period a year earlier, the New
York-based company said today in a statement. Excluding some
investment results, MetLife profit was 99 cents a share, missing
the $1.03 estimate of 16 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  MetLife uses the derivatives to produce income and guard
against moves in interest rates, currencies and equities. The
insurer had more than $200 billion in the contracts at the end
of June and $857 million in derivative losses in last year’s
third-quarter. The loss on the contracts narrowed to $190
million in the three months ended Sept. 30.  MetLife “requires a lot of derivatives to hedge the
guarantees” the insurer makes to clients including holders of
equity-linked retirement products, said  Randy Binner , an analyst
with FBR Capital Markets. “The companies with the most
derivatives are going to be the larger, more complicated
companies that also happen to be those that sell a lot of
variable annuities.”  Stock Decline  MetLife fell 96 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $39.50 at 4:25
p.m. in late New York trading. The company has gained about 14
percent this year on the New York Stock Exchange, compared with
the 17 percent advance of the 24-company KBW Insurance Index.  Premiums, fees and other revenue in the U.S. were $7.1
billion, “down slightly” from the third quarter last year,
MetLife said. International revenue advanced about 16 percent to
$1.3 billion on growth in Chile, Korea and Hong Kong.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Henrikson  poised to increase
business outside the U.S. when the firm completes its $15.5
billion acquisition of an AIG unit with sales in Japan, Russia
and Poland.  Book value per share, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, climbed 7.5 percent from June 30 to $48.93 on Sept.
30 as unrealized gains surged to $14.8 billion from $7.3 billion
at the end of the second quarter. Unrealized gains, reflecting
market fluctuations that aren’t counted toward earnings, are
monitored by investors and rating firms as a gauge of financial
strength.  Private Equity  Net investment income, including payments on bonds, gained
12 percent to $4.39 billion. Returns from private equity
holdings boosted the company’s so-called variable investment
income, which was $186 million after tax, or $56 million above
the company’s plan.  MetLife raised $3.62 billion in a  share sale  in August to
help pay for AIG’s American Life Insurance Co., which Henrikson
agreed in March to acquire. Henrikson also sold $3 billion of
senior notes. Raising the capital lowered operating earnings by
8 cents a share, MetLife said today.  “All of us at MetLife are eager to welcome our new
colleagues from Alico,” Henrikson said in the statement. “We
will be well positioned to deliver significant value for our
customers and our shareholders.”  MetLife, which reported $24.2 billion of interest-rate
floors among its derivative holdings at the end of June, has
posted gains when bond yields fall. Yields on two-year
Treasuries  plummeted  in the third quarter to 0.42 percent on
Sept. 30 from 0.6 at the end of June.  MetLife’s credit spreads narrowed in the three months ended
Sept. 30. According to accounting rules, insurers increase the
value of liabilities when their credit improves. Credit-default
swaps on MetLife dropped to 222 basis points as of Sept. 30 from
335 basis points on June 30. In last year’s third quarter, the
company’s swaps dropped to 231 from 529.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 