-- Sandy Alderson Says He'll Start Interviews for Mets' Manager Next Week
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-29T18:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/mets-hire-sandy-alderson-ex-athletics-general-manager-to-replace-minaya.html
Sandy Alderson  was hired as general
manager of the New York Mets, who are seeking to rebuild a
franchise beset by losing seasons, dwindling attendance and
personnel problems on and off the field.  Alderson, 62, was introduced at a news conference today at
Citi Field after signing a four-year contract. He said he would
likely begin interviews next week for a manager to succeed  Jerry Manuel , who was fired along with General Manager  Omar Minaya  on
Oct. 4 after a 79-83 season.  Alderson, an Ivy League-educated ex-Marine, produced
championship teams with the Oakland Athletics, laid the
groundwork for the San Diego Padres to contend for the playoffs
this season and worked as a top executive for Major League
Baseball. He brings his experience to a team that has missed the
playoffs for four straight seasons with one of the sport’s top
payrolls, which hit $134 million this year.  “I am thrilled with this opportunity and am eager to work
with ownership and the entire organization to achieve a
successful and sustainable future for the Mets and our fans,”
Alderson said in a news release.  Possible candidates for the manager’s job include  Wally Backman , a former Mets player and now manager of their Class A
farm club;  Chip Hale , the major league team’s third-base coach;
and  Bob Melvin , who managed the Seattle Mariners and Arizona
Diamondbacks, the New York Times reported.  World Series  Alderson built an Athletics team that won three American
League pennants and the 1989 World Series. He later became a
pioneer in the practice of using statistics to identify
undervalued players, as Oakland’s new owners instructed Alderson
to cut payroll following the death of former owner Walter Haas
Jr. in 1995.  Alderson left the A’s to become MLB’s vice president of
baseball operations, a position he held from 1998 to 2005. He
then spent almost four years as the Padres’ chief executive
officer before stepping down in 2009.  The Padres, with the second-lowest payroll in the major
leagues at $38 million, finished second behind the San Francisco
Giants this year in the National League West after leading the
division for most of the season. The Giants lead the Texas
Rangers 2-0 in the World Series after last night’s 9-0 win in
San Francisco.  An alumnus of Dartmouth College and Harvard Law School,
Alderson worked most recently to head Major League Baseball’s
efforts to eradicate corruption of the sport’s feeder programs
in the Dominican Republic.  Vietnam Vet  Alderson, who served with the  U.S. Marine Corps  in Vietnam,
was picked by Mets ownership over  Josh Byrnes , the former
general manager for the Arizona Diamondbacks.  The Mets are coming off a season that was marked by
injuries to key players such as  Carlos Beltran  and  Johan Santana , legal problems for All-Star relief pitcher  Francisco Rodriguez  and a sea of empty seats at the Mets’ two-year-old,
$850 million Citi Field. Attendance this season was 2.6 million,
down 600,000 from 2009.  The Mets have failed to reach the postseason in nine of the
past 10 years, while the crosstown-rival New York Yankees have
made the playoffs 15 times in 16 seasons and won five World
Series titles in that span. Minaya said he agreed a change was
needed when his firing was announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  