-- EU May Ban UN's Industrial Gas Offsets Starting in 2013, Slingenberg Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2010-10-28T17:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/eu-to-analyze-co2-oversight-may-ban-hfc-offsets-from-2013.html
The European Union gave one of the
strongest indications so far that its carbon program may halt
use of industrial-gas-related credits from the United Nations as
soon as 2013.  The price of UN emission credits fell as much as 1.7
percent in London after Yvon Slingenberg, emissions-unit head at
the European Commission’s climate department, said yesterday in
an interview from Brussels that “an outright ban is one of the
options” as it considers “restrictions on certain types of
projects related to industrial gases HFC-23 and nitrous oxide.”  The commission, the EU regulator, said in a May 26 report
that credits from reducing hydrofluorocarbons and nitrous oxide
may be creating “significant windfall profits” for carbon
developers. Slingenberg said a draft proposal that may end up
restricting how UN credits can be used for compliance in
Europe’s emissions market, the world’s largest, is in “internal
consultation” at the EU.  EU law allows UN credits ensuring “real, verifiable,
additional and permanent” emission reductions, Slingenberg
said. “We need to come to a final decision within the
commission now, and then the proposal will be presented to
member states.”  The UN’s Certified Emission Reductions for delivery in 2012
fell as much as 1.7 percent today to 11.96 euros, the lowest
intraday price since August 18. Carbon traders have said delays
in issuing offsets and the possibility of new restrictions may
leave them with credits that can’t be used in the third phase of
the EU’s carbon program, which runs from 2013 to 2020, or
perhaps in the current trading period.  “This quality restriction could destroy three-fourths of
all CERs, and industrials are starting to understand that not
all offsets will be eligible for the third phase,” said  Alexis Sarberg , a trader in Paris for Sagacarbon, the emissions-trading
unit of Caisse des Depots et Consignations.  One-for-One  Regulators of the UN carbon program, the Clean Development
Mechanism, are also ramping up scrutiny after allegations that
some developers are seeking excessive credits related to HFC-23,
an industrial gas whose warming potential is 11,700 times more
powerful than carbon dioxide. They are assessing whether the
methodology for awarding those offsets should be changed.  UN offsets are awarded on projects that lower emissions in
developing nations. They can now be swapped one-for-one with
permits in the EU’s cap-and-trade program, the world’s largest
carbon market.  The earliest possible date for any restrictions on offsets
credits in the EU program is Jan. 1, 2013, according to the
bloc’s law. The current trading period in the EU emissions
trading system, or ETS, ends in 2012, and the deadline for
surrendering allowances for that year is the end of April 2013.  Advance Notice  “The fact that the compliance deadline for 2012 is in 2013
will be something that we will look at,” Slingenberg said.
“But policy makers can also decide that you can no longer use
the credits from January 2013. April is the ultimate surrender
deadline, but operators can hand in the credits earlier, e.g. in
December 2012.”  The date when certain credits “will no longer be usable
will be known in advance,” Slingenberg said. “If we make a
proposal now before the end of the year and it’s approved within
a couple of months, markets will have two more years to make use
of their credits.”  Changes in EU policy wouldn’t prevent investors from using
restricted credits elsewhere, and the commission may decide it
isn’t responsible for terms of investor contracts.  “If a credit is for delivery in 2012, you should have it
delivered by the end of 2012,” Slingenberg said. “If it
doesn’t happen, that’s a separate contractual issue. Why should
we take the blame for it?”  Market Abuse  The planned commission proposal will require EU member
state approval to become binding. Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard , who has also called for international action to phase
out the production of hydrofluorocarbons, said on Oct. 15 the
bloc’s nations will likely support curbs on the use of offsets
from industrial gases in the EU emissions program.  The EU is also planning to study the oversight of its carbon
market to gauge whether further measures are needed to ensure
spot trading is well-protected from abuse, Slingenberg said.  “The financial market rules already apply to a large share
of the carbon market, offering the maximum level of protection
one could think of today,” she said. “The gap is spot trading
and over-the-counter markets. We’ll do a further analysis next
year to better assess the risk.”  The bloc already toughened its emissions-system regulation
in April, after a sale of offset credits already used for
compliance in the European market halted spot trading for three
days in March.  Cost-Benefit Analysis  “We need to see if the gap is important enough to put in
place some measures, and if so, what measures should that be to
keep in mind the proportionality between obligations, i.e.
costs, and benefits,” Slingenberg said.  The commission will present a communication on the current
level of market protection to the European Parliament and EU
member states by the end of this year, according to Slingenberg.
This will be followed by a stakeholder consultation and a cost-
benefit analysis, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  