-- Europe's Pension Deficits May Provoke Investor Scorn
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2010-10-29T15:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/europe-s-pension-weakness-may-draw-investor-scorn-over-bloated-deficits.html
Europe needs to cut its pension
deficits or risk prolonging the region’s debt crisis as
investors punish governments that don’t force citizens to work
longer, said Finnish Finance Minister  Jyrki Katainen .  Failures to address pension deficits “have come to the
forefront with a completely different degree of gravity,”
Katainen said in an interview. Investors “don’t just look at
the budget deficit or debt, but the structural weaknesses,” he
said. Finland, home to Europe’s fastest-aging population, is a
“test lab” for gauging how pension shortfalls will affect
government finances and debt markets, he said.  Europe spends almost four times as much on its retirees as
China, measured as a proportion of gross domestic product, and
one and a half times as much as the U.S., according to Standard
& Poor’s. Europe’s “unsustainable” retirement spending will
ultimately hurt its creditworthiness, the rating company says.  “Time is running out,” said S&P’s Madrid-based analyst
 Marko Mrsnik  in an interview. Europe’s “current systems, the
way they are designed and given the underlying demographic
profiles, are unsustainable in several countries.”  That hasn’t stopped some Europeans taking to the streets to
protest government efforts to adjust pension laws to track
increased longevity. France has been crippled by five national
strikes as citizens balk at a bill requiring them to work an
extra two years until the age of 62.  Air France-KLM Group labor unions today called on members
to stage a day of protests and strikes on Nov. 4 against the
French government’s pension system overhaul. Katainen says
Europe’s current pension model is unaffordable.  ‘Hot Topic’  In Finland, “if demand for health-care services grows as
much as we’ve calculated, all our young people should go work
for the public sector to provide health-care services, and
that’s just not possible,” Katainen said in the Oct. 20
interview.  According to  Aarre Sahramaa , who helps manage 2.5 billion
euros ($3.5 billion) in fixed-income assets at Etera Mutual
Pension Insurance Company in Helsinki, “pension deficits
haven’t yet been completely factored into” European sovereign
bond prices. “But the topic will get hotter in coming years.”  French 30-year government bonds have slipped about 7
percent since an Aug. 26 peak, while Italian debt of the same
maturity has lost about 3 percent, according to data available
on Bloomberg. German 30-year benchmark bonds are down about 4
percent since their August peak.  Southern Europe  “I think the big southern European countries, such as
Italy, aren’t in a very good situation,” Sahramaa said. “The
impact should probably show in bonds with longer maturities.”  Yields, which move inversely to bond prices, rose today in
Italy, Spain, Greece and Portugal on 30-year bonds.  In 20 years, half the population in Western Europe will be
over 50, according to Professor  Sarah Harper , Director of the
Oxford Institute of Ageing. That means by 2025, there’ll be one
less worker to cover the cost of each pensioner than the four
needed today, according to  population projections  by Eurostat,
the European Union’s statistics agency. In Finland, the ratio
will shrink to three in five years.  “There has been such an air of unreality about pensions
for so long that people simply seem not to realize how expensive
they are,” said  Ros Altmann , a former adviser to the U.K.
government and now a consultant in London. “The mathematics
simply don’t work; there is a need for a social revolution.”  Risk Premia  Europe must solve the pension problem, because “it impacts
the price of government debt in coming years,” Katainen said.
“Countries with an unhealthy pension system are likely to have
higher risk premia on debt than the countries where pension
systems are sustainable.”  Age-related spending in Europe accounts for 16.3 percent of
the region’s gross domestic product, compared with an average of
14.2 percent for the 49 countries included in an S&P survey
published Oct. 7. The equivalent ratio for Brazil, Russia, India
and China, the so-called BRICs, was 8.7 percent. Age-related
spending through 2050 will grow faster in Europe, as a portion
of GDP, than in the U.S. and the BRICs, S&P estimates.  Under-funded pensions are getting more attention after
Europe’s debt crisis exposed the region’s fiscal shortcomings.
Pension assets took a hit in 2008 as the financial crisis
slashed asset values. The losses haven’t been fully recouped,
Fitch Ratings Inc. said on Sept. 9, citing the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.  Fewer Taxpayers  “If there are fewer taxpayers trying to support ever
increasing numbers of pensioners, then the economy cannot
thrive,” Altmann said. “Surely common sense would dictate that
people cannot expect to retire at 60 or 62, live for another 30
years or so and have someone else pay them a huge amount of
money without them contributing to the economy.”  Greece will have to spend 12.4 percent more on pensions by
2060 and Spain 6.7 percent more, the European Commission said in
its 2009 Ageing Report. By contrast, Germany will have to spend
2.3 percent more and France 1 percent thanks to measures already
taken, the commission said.  Finland has taken steps to address growing retirement
spending with an automatic reduction in pensions as longevity
increases. A person born in 1948 gets a pension of 1,000 euros
per month, while future retirees born in 1990 will get 790 euros.
The cuts can be offset by working longer.  This isn’t enough and Finland should raise its minimum
retirement age to 65 from 63, the OECD said in April. Former
Prime Minister  Matti Vanhanen  tried pushing through the change
in 2009 and was forced to back down following public protests.  “The problem is that there is little incentive for
politicians to sort pensions out,” said Altmann. “It’s always
easiest to pretend to sort the situation out, while not actually
doing so and leaving it for future politicians to find out that
there isn’t enough money to meet past promises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kati Pohjanpalo  in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  