-- European Central Bank Purchased Irish Government Bonds Today, Traders Say
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-28T13:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/european-central-bank-said-to-have-bought-debt-issued-by-irish-government.html
The European Central Bank bought
Irish government bonds today, according to three traders and
strategists with knowledge of the transactions.  The ECB purchased debt maturing between 2011 and 2020, one
of the traders said, under condition of anonymity because the
deals are confidential. A central bank spokesman declined to
comment when contacted by telephone in Frankfurt.  ECB council member  Axel Weber , who is also president of
Germany’s Bundesbank, said on Oct. 12 that the ECB’s
“securities purchases should now be phased out permanently.”
ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  countered that an
“overwhelming majority” of policy makers supported maintaining
the bond-buying program, with Austria’s  Ewald Nowotny  also
rejecting the demand.  The ECB’s bond purchases differ from so-called quantitative
easing policies pursued by the Federal Reserve and Bank of
England because the central bank mops up the liquidity created
by the purchases, meaning the net effect on the money supply is
neutral. The move is aimed primarily at reducing volatility in
the market. No bonds were purchased in the two weeks ended Oct.
22, the ECB said on Oct. 25.  The ECB began the program on May 10 to stabilize markets
rocked by the region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The purchases were
part of a European Union-led push to rescue the euro, which fell
to a four-year low on June 7 after Greece’s near default raised
concern that some nations in the region would struggle to
finance their budget deficits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  