-- Evercore Earnings Rise, Exceeding Analyst Estimates, on Surge in Deal Fees
-- B y   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2010-10-28T20:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/evercore-profit-rises-exceeding-analyst-estimates-on-surge-in-deal-fees.html
Evercore Partners Inc. , the
investment bank founded by former U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary
 Roger Altman , reported profit that beat analysts’ estimates on a
surge in fees for advising on takeovers and restructurings. The
company increased its dividend 20 percent to 18 cents a share.  Third-quarter earnings excluding certain items were $14.6
million, or 38 cents a share, compared with $11 million, or 29
cents, a year earlier, the New York-based company said today in
a statement. The average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was 33 cents. Investment-banking revenue rose to $99.6
million from $71.6 million a year earlier.  Chief Executive Officer  Ralph Schlosstein , 59, is
diversifying the firm, which last year got more than 90 percent
of its revenue from  advising  on mergers and acquisitions and
financial restructurings. He’s acquiring money-management
businesses and building a stock research, sales and underwriting
team. The company is also hiring investment bankers outside the
U.S., the  source  in the past of more than 70 percent of the
firm’s revenue.  “Record revenues in both investment banking and investment
management highlight the steady progress we continue to make in
building our business,” Schlosstein said in the statement.  Revenue Increase  Net revenue was $123.7 million, up 48 percent from a year
earlier and 91 percent from the second quarter, according to the
statement. Investment-management revenue rose to $23.4 million
from $9.79 million a year earlier.  “The company is finally on the verge of breaking out on
the upside,”  Richard Bove , an analyst at Rochdale Securities
LLC in Lutz, Florida, wrote in a note Sept. 11.  Compensation expenses were 62 percent of revenue compared
with 63 percent in the second quarter and 61 percent in the
third quarter of 2009, according to the statement. The firm’s
goal is a ratio between 50 percent and 55 percent of revenue,
according to past company presentations. Evercore has missed
that goal because revenue hasn’t kept up with new hiring and
spending.  “Evercore’s core business did extraordinarily well in the
third quarter but its overall results were penalized by the
expansionary moves,” Bove said in a note today after the
earnings report.  Expenses for Evercore’s new cash equities business were
$6.6 million on revenue of $0.7 million in the quarter,
according to the statement. The cost worked out to about 5 cents
a share, Schlosstein said in a conference call after the
earnings announcement.  Takeover ‘Attitudes’ Better  Evercore rose 1.9 percent to $30.10 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have declined
1 percent for the year.  “Our core Advisory business is performing strongly,”
Altman, the executive chairman, said in the statement. “We are
adding clients and assignments at a good pace. And we are
consistently expanding our sector coverage and geographic
reach.”  The pace of leveraged buyouts is quickening and corporate
executives’ “attitudes” about takeovers are better than six
months ago, Altman said in the conference call.  “On a scale of one to 10, with one being I’ll cut my throat
before I do a deal, and 10 I got to do three before tonight is
over, I would say it is about a six-and-a-half,” he said.  Evercore agreed in September to pay $20 million for a 50
percent interest G5 Advisors, a Sao Paulo-based investment
banking boutique founded by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
partner  Corrado Varoli .  Evercore’s revenue fluctuates depending on the completion
of restructuring and takeover assignments. Fees can be booked
months after most of the work is done.  Closed Deals  Third-quarter revenue included $23.5 million for advising
on the bankruptcy of chemicals maker LyondellBasell Industries
NV, Evercore disclosed in August, explaining that the fee was
approved by the bankruptcy court in July after having been paid
in June. The LyondellBasell fee would have been worth 17 cents a
share in profit if it had been counted in the second quarter,
the company said.  During the quarter, Evercore booked fees for advising on
Frontier Communications Corp.’s acquisition of assets from
Verizon Communications Inc. and the acquisition by Babcock
International Group Plc of VT Group Plc, the company said in
August.  Managed Assets  Assets under management increased to $16.6 billion at the
end of September, compared with $15.2 billion at the end of
June. The increase came on about $450 million of net inflows and
$930 million of market appreciation, according to the statement.
In late 2008, Evercore began building its money management
business and in March agreed to pay $69 million in cash for a 49
percent stake in money-management firm Atalanta Sosnoff Capital
LLC to add to its investment-management business.  In May 2009, Altman, 64, turned over the CEO job and day-
to-day control to Schlosstein, co-founder and former president
of asset manager BlackRock Inc. Schlosstein was a domestic
policy adviser to President  Jimmy Carter  and Altman was deputy
secretary of the Treasury under President  Bill Clinton  from 1993
to 1995.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Henry  in New York at 
 dhenry19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  