-- Ex-Terrorist Worked in `Hotbed' of Crime with Prostitutes, U.S. Judge Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-28T18:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/ex-terrorist-worked-in-hotbed-of-crime-with-prostitutes-u-s-judge-says.html
Abdelghani Meskini , convicted in an
al-Qaeda plot to bomb Los Angeles International Airport,
violated terms of his release from prison by trying to obtain an
AK-47 assault rifle and lying to authorities, a judge ruled.  U.S. prosecutors charged that Meskini, 42, an Algerian who
pleaded guilty in 2001 to federal charges stemming from the
foiled terrorist attack, slipped back into a life of crime after
being sentenced to six years in prison. He took a job as a
manager for a suburban Atlanta apartment complex in 2005.  During a two-day hearing beginning Oct. 13, prosecutors
called witnesses that included an Atlanta hooker who said
Meskini advised her how to place ads for her prostitution
business and a man convicted of bank fraud who said he committed
credit-card and identity theft with Meskini. U.S. District Judge
 John Keenan  found that Meskini hadn’t violated the terms of his
release by associating with known criminals.  Meskini’s workplace was “a hotbed of criminal activity
where narcotics sales and prostitution occurred openly and
persistently,” Keenan said in a ruling. U.S. probation
officials who oversaw Meskini were to blame for allowing him to
work there, Keenan said.  “Incredibly, the U.S. Probation Department approved
Meskini’s employment,” Keenan said. While Meskini told two law
enforcement officers about criminal activity at the complex, no
officials visited it, the judge said.  ‘Disingenuous at Best’  “The government’s attempt to put Meskini in jail for
associations about which it knew or should have known for
several years is disingenuous at best,” Keenan said.  Prosecutors had asked Keenan to sentence Meskini to serve
more time in prison because of the alleged violations. Keenan
last week scheduled a hearing tomorrow to determine if he will
sentence Meskini to additional prison time.  In his ruling, Keenan said Meskini wasn’t guilty of four
violations, including frequenting drug establishments, failing
to cooperate with federal authorities and failing to make
restitution payments.  Keenan found Meskini guilty of five violations, including
lying to an agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in late
2009, when he said he wasn’t involved in any criminal activity
and hadn’t attempted to obtain a weapon. Meskini also lied on a
monthly report to U.S. probation officials when asked if he
possessed or attempted to possess a firearm, Keenan said.  ‘Might Need It’  Crystal Roughton, the prostitute who was also a resident of
the complex, testified that she was a close friend of Meskini’s.
She said that around September 2009 he asked her to help him
obtain an AK-47, “because he was AWOL from the military and he
might need it to get home.”  Roughton testified that Meskini forwarded her e-mails
containing photographs of an AK-47 that he wanted. She and the
second witness, Ricky Stephenson, who was convicted of 168
counts of bank fraud, both testified they also had seen Meskini
with a handgun.  The so-called millennium plot was thwarted when  Ahmed Ressam , another Algerian, was arrested on Dec. 14, 1999, while
transporting explosives across the U.S.-Canadian border near
Seattle. Meskini, who was living in Brooklyn, New York, was
charged after his telephone number was found in Ressam’s pocket.  Meskini testified as a government witness against two co-
conspirators in federal trials in 2001. After being sentenced to
six years in prison by Keenan in January 2004, he was released
from prison in 2005 after receiving credit for time served and
good behavior. He could have faced more than 100 years in
prison, the U.S. said.  Mark S. DeMarco, Meskini’s lawyer, couldn’t be immediately
reached for comment. A spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara  also couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  The case is U.S. v. Meskini, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 