-- ExamWorks, SeaCube IPOs Raise Less Than Sought as First Wind Puts Off Sale
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-10-28T17:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/examworks-group-sells-ipo-at-bottom-of-range-as-seacube-slashes-price.html
ExamWorks Group Inc.  and SeaCube
Container Leasing Ltd. raised less than the maximum sought in
their initial public offerings, while First Wind Holdings Inc.
pulled its sale even after lowering its price by 31 percent.  ExamWorks, the Atlanta-based provider of medical legal
services, raised $165 million selling shares at the low end of
its range, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  SeaCube , a container
leasing company based in Park Ridge, New Jersey, completed its
IPO after reducing the asking price 44 percent.  First Wind  of
Boston postponed a $240 million IPO scheduled for yesterday
because the terms that investors wanted were “not attractive,”
according to Chief Executive Officer  Paul Gaynor .  The offerings came as the U.S. IPO market began to show
signs of rebounding after 54 companies had postponed or
withdrawn sales this year. Six of the eight deals completed
since the start of last week had advanced at least 13 percent in
their first day of trading, with Shanghai-based Mecox Lane Ltd.
surging 57 percent after raising the price for its IPO.  “It’s still a buyer’s market for IPOs,” said  Jack Ablin ,
chief investment officer at Chicago-based Harris Private Bank,
which oversees about $55 billion. “Investors are looking for
more of a sure bet.”  Today’s Trading  ExamWorks  climbed 6.3 percent to $17.01 at 1:10 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange trading today.  SeaCube  rose 8.7 percent.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  in New York, Zurich-based Credit
Suisse Group AG and Barclays Plc of London arranged the offering
from ExamWorks, which helps companies and government agencies
confirm the veracity of their employees’ claims for workers’
compensation. The company will use the IPO proceeds to repay
 debt  and fund acquisitions, the prospectus showed.  At the IPO’s midpoint price, ExamWorks was valued at 2.3
times revenue, according to IPODesktop.com in Marina del Rey,
California. That’s 64 percent more than the ratio of 1.4 for
Irvine, California-based  CorVel Corp. , which IPOdesktop.com
identified as a competitor.  SeaCube sold 9.5 million shares at $10 each after offering
7.5 million at $16 to $18.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Citigroup
Inc. in New York, Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG and Wells
Fargo & Co. of San Francisco led SeaCube’s sale.  First Wind , the developer and operator of wind energy
projects backed by D.E. Shaw & Co., said in an e-mailed
statement today it will “not move forward” with its IPO.  The company had reduced the price range for its sale of 12
million Class A shares to $18 to $20 each from $24 to $26.  Wind Farms  “While we received significant interest from potential
investors during the marketing of our IPO, the terms that the
IPO market was seeking at this time were not attractive to the
company,” First Wind’s  Gaynor  said in the statement sent by
spokesman John Lamontagne.  Credit Suisse , New York-based Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs
and Deutsche Bank were hired to arrange the IPO.  Le Gaga Holdings Ltd. , a Hong Kong-based vegetable
producer, will sell 10.9 million American depositary receipts at
$7.50 to $9.50 each today. Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank
of America Corp. and UBS AG of Zurich are leading the IPO.  Companies from Asia have posted six of the ten largest
gains among U.S. IPOs this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. China’s economy will grow 9.6 percent in 2011,
according to estimates from the Washington-based International
Monetary Fund. That compares with 2.2 percent for developed
nations and 2.3 percent forecast for the U.S.  “Ultimately, the investors have the leverage because we’re
going to determine how much we want and at what price we want,”
said  Scott Billeadeau , who helps oversee $19 billion at Fifth
Third Asset Management in Minneapolis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 