-- Exxon Trails Chevron After Russell Ranking Change
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 2010-10-28T20:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/exxon-gains-trail-chevron-as-investors-dispute-russell-growth-stock-rank.html
Exxon Mobil Corp.  is trailing its
rivals ever since Russell Investments labeled it a growth stock.  While Exxon, the world’s largest company by share value,
has gained 6.2 percent since June 11 when Russell said it would
put 92 percent of its market capitalization in the Russell 1000
Growth Index, Chevron Corp. jumped 14 percent and ConocoPhillips
rose 12 percent. Russell assigns 95 percent of Chevron to its
value gauge and 62 percent of ConocoPhillips.  In a year when  Apple Inc.  has soared 46 percent and Oracle
Corp. increased 17 percent, money managers have failed to
embrace Exxon’s new ranking, in part because Russell based its
decision on four analysts who lacked a consensus.  Robb Parlanti ,
who manages a fund at Turner Investment Partners that buys the
fastest-growing companies, avoided Exxon because he’s skeptical
profits will match his other holdings.  David Kovacs , who
oversees a fund at Turner focused on the cheapest equities, cut
his stake after Exxon’s share of the Russell value index shrank.  “What we couldn’t understand was, why does Russell seem to
think Exxon’s a growth stock and no one else does?” said  Doug Leggate , a Houston-based oil industry analyst at Bank of America
Corp. “People are making huge swings in their investment
decisions, which is impacting the  performance  of the shares.”  Rolf Agather , director of index research and innovation at
Russell in Tacoma, Washington, said Russell uses a quantitative
approach and doesn’t evaluate the estimates it uses.  No Questions  “We don’t question whether the analyst is making the right
 judgment  or not,” Agather said. Russell previously assigned 26
percent of Exxon’s value to the growth index.  Alan Jeffers , a spokesman for Exxon, declined to comment.  Based on estimates from at least 11 analysts, Exxon’s per-
share profit is forecast to grow at a 13 percent rate from 2010
to 2012.  Chevron  and ConocoPhillips are expected to boost profit
9.4 percent and 14 percent, the data show.  Exxon trades for about 10.5 times the average analyst
 estimate  for 2011 earnings, or 15 percent less than the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its
average multiple since 2000 is 14.4 times income in the previous
12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Chevron is priced at
8.6 times next year’s profit and ConocoPhillips 9.2 times.  Exxon today said earnings per share rose 47 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, to $1.44, five cents higher
than the average of 14 analyst estimates. The futures price of
crude oil averaged 12 percent higher than in the year-earlier
period. Exxon shares rose 0.8 percent to $66.22.  Relative Value  Apple  in Cupertino, California, with the second-biggest
weighting in Russell’s growth measure, trades for 14 times
analysts’ forecast for 2011 earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Redwood City, California-based Oracle, California, with
the seventh-largest share, fetches 13 times estimated profit.  While the oil producer accounts for 5 percent of the
 Russell 1000 Growth Index  for the biggest weighting among 626
stocks, the Wells Fargo Advantage Growth Fund, Alger Spectra
Fund, Morgan Stanley Capital Opportunities Trust and BlackRock
Focus Growth Fund Inc. didn’t have Exxon in their top 10
holdings as of Sept. 30. All four growth funds beat at least 92
percent of their peers during the past five years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Surprising’ Increase  “We don’t necessarily view Exxon as a good growth
company,” said  Patrick Kelly , who manages $4.5 billion at Fred
Alger Management Inc. in New York, including the Alger Spectra
Fund that has beaten 99 percent of rivals since 2005. The fund
hasn’t owned Exxon since 2008. “It was clearly surprising that
it was increasing by that magnitude,” he said.  Exxon made up 1.4 percent of the growth measure on June 25,
before the index changes were made. Russell says its U.S. equity
gauges are used as benchmarks by funds overseeing $3.9 trillion.  Exxon “doesn’t feel like a growth company to me,” said
 Kevin Rendino , who manages $11 billion including Exxon shares at
BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest asset manager. “Exxon’s
valuation is as low as it’s ever been in 10 years.”  Russell uses companies’ price-to-book value and  analyst 
estimates for gains in operating earnings during the next three
to five years when determining what companies go in the indexes.
The four profit projections for Exxon ranged from 7 percent to
24 percent, with an average of 16 percent, Agather said. A year
earlier, the average growth forecast was 2.4 percent, he said.  Exxon trades at 2.4 times book value, or the cost of its
assets if sold at liquidation, compared with a 10-year average
of 3.4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Starting Points  Some analysts used 2009, when the company  earned  $3.98 a
share, as the base year. Others used 2010, when Exxon’s profit
has been lifted by the 142 percent rebound in crude-oil futures
from their December 2008 low. Exxon will report  income  of $5.77
a share this year, according to the average of 20 analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Using the 2010 estimate as the starting point, the growth
forecasts for the four analysts -- from Bank of America,
Barclays Plc, Morningstar Inc. and Societe Generale -- would
fall to an average of about 11 percent.  The worst financial crisis since the Great Depression
spurred declines in stocks and earnings in 2008. The S&P 500
tumbled 38 percent that year and sank to a 12-year low in March
2009. Companies in the U.S. equity benchmark posted their first-
ever combined loss in the fourth quarter of 2008. Exxon’s net
income dropped 54 percent in 2009.  Growth Forecast  Bank of America’s 7 percent forecast for Exxon’s growth
rate was based on earnings-per-share estimates of $5.31 for 2010
and $6.95 for 2014, which have since been revised.  “To categorize it as a growth stock on its earnings is a
little challenging,” Leggate said. “To believe it can grow at
16 percent annually, I think, for anyone who knows the stock,
would be perceived as a little unusual.”  Paul Cheng  of London-based Barclays projected 12.9 percent
growth compared with the company’s 2009 earnings excluding some
items, using a 2014 forecast of $7.35 a share.  “I have not seen any buy-side investor ever classify Exxon
Mobil as a growth company,” he said.  Morningstar’s forecast was 19.5 percent.  Allen Good , the
Chicago-based firm’s oil industry analyst, said it was probably
based on an estimate of $9.68 for 2014 compared with 2009
earnings. He said he doesn’t use estimates beyond 2012 for
valuation purposes. Societe Generale’s forecast, 24.3 percent,
probably used 2009 as a starting point,  Aymeric de Villaret , the
firm’s Paris-based oil-industry analyst, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. He declined to specify the numbers used
to calculate the growth rate. In a July report, De Villaret said
Exxon would earn $8.35  a share in 2012. That would give the company an annual EPS  growth rate of 28 percent when compared with 2009.  Societe Generale’s Coverage  Societe Generale stopped covering Exxon on Oct. 10 and will
resume following a reorganization, De Villaret said.  “Your base rate makes a heck of a difference,” said
William Reichenstein, professor of investments at Baylor
University in Waco, Texas, and author of a March 2004 article in
the Journal of Financial Planning on how Morningstar assigns
mutual funds to growth and value categories. “I have yet to see
a single empirical study that says it’s more useful to separate
stocks into value and growth using growth variables like the
long-term growth rate. It’s kind of a squirrelly number.”  Leggate, who worked as an engineer at Chevron for six years
before becoming an industry analyst in 1996, said Russell relied
on too few forecasts and should have investigated the gap
between the lowest and the highest. Morningstar’s Good agreed.  ‘Not Standardized’ Metric  “The fault likely lies with Russell in the fact they used
a limited sample of a metric which is not standardized,” Good
said in an e-mail.  Agather said the number of firms giving long-term forecasts
for all companies has declined and Russell is always looking for
ways to improve its process.  It “is something we’re evaluating in our style methodology
for future rebalancing” of the indexes, he said. Russell
requires at least three forecasts in order to take them into
account, Agather said. The firm won’t consider adjusting Exxon’s
weighting until the next annual reweighting, he said.  At Turner Investment in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, which
oversees $18 billion, Parlanti, the growth manager, added to
other energy holdings even though he didn’t buy Exxon.  “We’re looking for companies that have faster earnings
growth,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 