-- Falkland Oil Hunt Draws `Big Bets' to Make Desire Most Volatile U.K. Stock
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2010-10-28T23:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/falkland-oil-hunt-draws-big-bets-to-make-desire-most-volatile-u-k-stock.html
Investors seeking volatility should
look to the South Atlantic Ocean.  Desire Petroleum Plc  and  Rockhopper Exploration Plc  have
the largest average daily price moves among U.K.-traded
companies valued at more than 100 million pounds ($159 million).
They explore for oil in the waters around the Falkland Islands,
the sheep-farming outpost 8,000 miles from London that  Margaret Thatcher  fought a war to keep British 28 years ago.  The swings are driven by a brigade of individual investors
wagering on the success of exploration wells in a region the
 U.S. Geological Survey  says may hold 4 billion barrels of oil.
Rockhopper, whose Sea Lion discovery may be the area’s first
viable field, has risen or fallen more than 10 percent on 19
days this year. Desire  gained 76 percent  one day this week on
speculation it had struck oil at its Rachel prospect.  “Gambling is too strong a word, but you’re effectively
taking big bets on high-risk stuff,” said  Richard Rose , an
analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. “You’re going to get wild
swings because small bits of information have big hits on the
shares. It will stay volatile as long as they keep drilling.”  The switchback ride is likely to intensify as the summer
drilling season gets under way and as many as six fresh
prospects are appraised by the end of June next year. The long-
term future of the companies will depend on enough discoveries
to make the development of an oil industry worth the investment
in the remote islands, still claimed by neighboring Argentina.  “These companies excite the imagination of smaller
investors,” said  Lionel Therond , an analyst at broker Fox-
Davies Capital in London. “There’s potential for big
discoveries. It’s high-risk, high reward.”  Six Wells  A group including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  drilled six wells
in 1998 without making a commercial discovery. The U.S.
Geological Survey says there’s a 50 percent chance the Falklands
have 4 billion barrels of crude.  Desire , based in Malvern, England, has a 180-day historical
volatility of 167 percent, an annualized measure of how much the
stock has varied from its average price over the last 180
trading days. Rockhopper’s volatility is 164 percent. The figure
for Shell, Europe’s largest oil company, is 24 percent.  Individual retail investors own about 80 percent of
Desire’s shares and about 60 percent of  Rockhopper , according to
the companies.  Falkland Oil & Gas Plc , the ninth most volatile
stock on the 180-day measure, is 30 percent held by individuals.
By comparison, 79 percent of BP Plc shares belong to
institutional investors.  Chat Rooms  Internet chat rooms , where participants discuss the results
of exploration wells, may help fan swings in shares. Comment on
Desire’s shares increased on Interactive Investor on Oct. 27 as
the stock rose as much as 112 percent on speculation that the
company had struck oil or would be bought out.  The surge came two weeks after it said it had failed to
find hydrocarbons in the main target at its Rachel well. Desire
had to make a statement the following day saying it hadn’t been
approached about a takeover.  Even with a big find, the dearth of pipelines or other
infrastructure means production is years away, said  Dougie Youngson , an analyst at Arbuthnot Securities Ltd. in London.
Argentina also forbids vessels that stop in the Falklands from
loading cargo at its ports.  Salisbury, England-based Rockhopper, named for the penguins
that inhabit the islands, surged 150 percent on May 6, the day
it announced the discovery at the Sea Lion prospect.  Abandoning Exploration  While the shares have risen more than fivefold this year,
they plunged more than 20 percent on Oct. 13 after its advisers
said the level of resources may be lower than expected. Falkland
Oil & Gas slumped more than 50 percent on July 12 after
abandoning an exploration well.  “These stocks are driven by the retail market, and they
want volatility,” said Arbuthnot’s Youngson. “Rockhopper’s had
some success, but it’s not big enough to establish an industry
in a frontier environment.”  Still, Desire and Rockhopper have raised additional
drilling funds for exploration in the North Falkland Basin
through share placements within the past year. Argos Resources
Ltd. also holds licenses to the north of the islands, while
Borders & Southern Petroleum Plc and Falkland Oil & Gas focus on
a different geological formation on the southern side.  The summer drilling season in the Falklands runs from
October to April. Desire plans to drill the Dawn/Jacinta well in
November and the Anna well in December. Rockhopper holds a 7.5
percent interest in both.  Falkland Oil & Gas has plans drill two prospects early next
year, subject to rig availability. Borders & Southern already
delayed plans to drill the Darwin and Stebbing prospects as soon
as this quarter because it couldn’t find a rig.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  