-- Fannie Mae Sells Most Benchmark Debt Since March 2009
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-10-28T19:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/fannie-mae-sells-8-billion-of-three-year-notes-to-yield-0-764-.html
Fannie Mae , the government-supported
mortgage company, sold $8 billion of its benchmark notes, in its
largest sale of the securities since March 2009 as so-called
U.S. agency debt heads toward its highest relative monthly
returns in more than a year.  The three-year securities issued by Fannie Mae yield 0.764
percent, or 19.5 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, the Washington-based company said in an e-mailed
statement. Fannie Mae sold $7 billion of similar bonds on Aug. 4
at yields of 1.057 percent, a spread of 23.5 basis points. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Today’s sale went “extremely well,” with Fannie Mae
issuing more debt at tighter spreads than originally offered,
said  Vincent Boberski , a senior vice president in Memphis,
Tennessee, at broker-dealer Vining Sparks IBG. Asian investors
purchased 8.4 percent of the debt, down from 19 percent in
August as U.S.-based investors outbid other purchasers with 86.2
percent, the company  said . Asian buyers took 29 percent of the
$5 billion in debt sold last week by rival Freddie Mac,
suggesting currency trends may be bolstering demand, he said.  “With the midterm elections coming up and the potential
for Republicans to take over the House, you can make an argument
we will see a more restrained fiscal policy going forward, which
will help the dollar,” Boberski said today in a telephone
interview. “There’s clearly a flight-to-quality bid on the
short-end of the curve, and you’re probably seeing a currency
play as well.”  Agency Spreads  Average spreads on U.S. agency debt aside from mortgage
securities declined to 19 basis points yesterday from 25 basis
points on Sept. 30, according to Barclays Capital  index data .
Yesterday’s level matched a low since April.  The notes, including the corporate borrowing of Fannie Mae,
Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Bank system and U.S.-
guaranteed bank notes, have  returned  25 basis points more than
similar Treasuries this month through yesterday, the data show.
That would be the most since July 2009.  Fannie Mae’s benchmark securities are its largest type of
issue, with a minimum size of $3 billion, and are sold according
to a calendar created before the start of a year.  The company issued $15 billion of its two-year benchmark
notes in February 2009, its largest-ever offering, and $9
billion of five-year  notes  the next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  