-- Fed Easing to Keep Dollar Weak Next Month, FX Concepts Founder Taylor Says
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2010-10-28T13:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/fed-easing-to-keep-dollar-weak-through-november-fx-concepts-taylor-says.html
The dollar will remain weak against
the euro through November until the effect of the Federal
Reserve’s bond-buying program deteriorates, according to  John Taylor , founder of FX Concepts LLC, the world’s biggest foreign
exchange hedge fund.  The greenback will bottom out between $1.40 and $1.43
before ending the year as strong as $1.30 against the 16-nation
currency, Taylor said today in a Bloomberg Television interview
with  Erik Schatzker  on the "Inside Track.’’ The Fed asked bond
dealers how asset purchases will influence yields, according to
a report by Bloomberg News, encouraging speculation that policy
makers remain open to large acquisitions as they try to spur the
economy under a policy know as quantitative easing.  The dollar declined 0.8 percent to $1.3879 per euro at 9:03
a.m. in New York. The Fed’s policy-making committee meets Nov.
2-3.  “The dollar will be weak, probably through the month of
November, as we get a feel for the program,” Taylor said. “The
European situation is kind of the straw that breaks the camel’s
back, the dollar situation is fluid; as the QE2 continues the
dollar weakens. I expect to see the euro much weaker through the
course of next year.”  Taylor, the chairman of FX Concepts in New York, retained
his forecast the euro will fall to parity with the dollar in
2011. The U.S. currency has tumbled 8.7 percent against its
European counterpart since Aug. 27 when Fed chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  pledged in a speech in Jackson Hole, Wyoming to
safeguard the economic recovery through the purchase of
Treasuries.  “As soon as the Jackson Hole issue, the QE2 issue came
out, you sell the dollar,” Taylor said. “The best measure of
when to stop selling the dollar is when the QE2 effort is
matched by problems in Europe or problems in China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  