-- Fed Asks Dealers to Estimate Size, Impact of Debt Purchases
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2010-10-28T09:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/fed-asks-dealers-to-estimate-size-impact-of-debt-purchases.html
The Federal Reserve asked bond
dealers and investors for projections of central bank asset
purchases over the next six months, along with the likely effect
on yields, as it seeks to gauge the possible impact of new
efforts to spur growth.  The New York Fed survey, obtained by Bloomberg News, asks
about expectations for the initial size of any new program of
debt purchases and the time over which it would be completed. It
also asks firms how often they anticipate the Fed will re-
evaluate the program, and to estimate its ultimate size.  With their benchmark  interest rate  near zero, policy makers
meet Nov. 2-3 to consider steps to boost an economy that’s
growing too slowly to reduce unemployment near a 26-year high.
Financial-market participants are focusing on the size, timing
and maturities of likely purchases aimed at lowering long-term
rates, with estimates reaching $1 trillion or more.  “If they buy too much, I think there’s a real chance that
rates are going to rise because people are worried about
inflation,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “If they don’t buy
much, they’re not going to have a market impact.”  William Dudley , president of the New York Fed and vice
chairman of the Federal Open Market Committee, set expectations
of about $500 billion for a new round of so-called quantitative
easing, a figure he used in an Oct. 1 speech.  Investor Concern  “What the market wants to hear is that the Fed is going to
buy $1 trillion” of Treasuries, said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief
U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York.
“Concerns that it might be less is causing investors to worry
about how deep and broad this program is going to be.”  Treasuries rose for the first time in seven days today,
pushing the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.698 percent as of 10:38
a.m. in London. The yield climbed to the highest in more than a
month yesterday on speculation that the Fed will buy less debt
than some traders had been expecting.  Europe’s  Stoxx 600 Index  increased 0.7 percent today and
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures rose 0.3 percent.  The New York Fed’s survey coincides with a Treasury
Department questionnaire asking dealers about the outlook for
bond-market liquidity. Treasury officials say any additional
program of asset purchases by the Fed won’t affect borrowing
plans.  Avoiding Disruption  Treasury officials say they want to avoid any disruption to
the $8.5 trillion market in U.S. government debt, the world’s
most liquid, as the Fed weighs restarting large-scale asset
purchases. The Treasury also doesn’t want to give any impression
to investors, particularly those based overseas, that it might
be coordinating with the Fed to finance the  national debt .  “Treasury debt-management decisions are designed to
deliver the lowest cost of borrowing over time and are entirely
independent from monetary-policy decisions made by the Federal
Reserve,”  Mary Miller , assistant secretary for financial
markets, said in an e-mail to Bloomberg News yesterday. Before
joining the Treasury last year, Miller was head of global fixed-
income portfolio management at T. Rowe Price Group Inc. in
Baltimore.  The Treasury is scheduled to hold its quarterly meetings
with bond dealers tomorrow, ahead of the department’s Nov. 3
refunding announcement.  Treasury Yields  The New York Fed surveyed primary dealers required to bid
in U.S. debt auctions. It asked dealers to estimate changes in
nominal and real 10-year Treasury yields “if the purchases were
announced and completed over a six-month period.” The amounts
dealers can choose from are zero, $250 billion, $500 billion and
$1 trillion.  Deborah Kilroe , a spokeswoman for the New York Fed,
declined to comment.  “Yields would have to back up” if the market is
overestimating the size of Fed purchases, said  Joseph Abate ,
money-market strategist at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York.
“The dealer community is running much less leverage than they
did before. The amounts of inventory they are financing is
smaller. Their capacity to absorb extra supply is lower.”  The Treasury is watching for signs the Fed’s buying program
might affect market operations. Fed purchases would take place
as the Treasury reduces debt issuance, raising questions of
whether the government would have to sell additional securities
to avoid market disruptions.  ‘Nuclear Option’  “That’s certainly kind of a nuclear option for Treasury,”
Stanley said. “They would always and everywhere like to avoid
that.”  Extra debt sales have happened just twice in the past
decade, with so-called snap reopenings of existing securities in
the aftermath of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and at
the height of the financial crisis, in October 2008. The
Treasury acted to shore up market liquidity and prevent a
trading freeze caused by shortages of highly sought securities.  The Treasury has put a premium on selling its debt in a
regular and predictable fashion. Those efforts may be tested by
the Fed’s purchase campaign, which would take place in the
secondary market rather than at Treasury auctions.  The Fed’s purchases might run as high as $100 billion a
month, some analysts say -- almost equaling the entire amount
the government is likely to sell.  ‘Tugging’ the Wheel  “If the Fed commits itself to buying back the bulk of the
Treasury’s net new issuance through open-market purchases, it
will have more than one hand tugging on the wheel of federal
debt management policy,” said  Lou Crandall , chief economist at
Wrightson ICAP LLC in Jersey City, New Jersey.  Crandall said the frequency of note auctions, combined with
low interest rates, “sharply increases the likelihood of
accidental reopenings in the next phase of the rate cycle.”  The Fed is unlikely to buy up the entire supply of new
securities, although it may adjust its internal guidelines of
how much it can hold of any given issue. The Fed limits itself
to owning no more than 35 percent of any specific security it
holds in its System Open Market Account, or  SOMA .  “Our Treasury strategists point out it could also cause
pricing distortions along the curve, if, for example, the Fed
continues to target a 40 percent purchase concentration in the
6-10 year maturity bucket, as it has in its recent purchases,”
analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co., including  Alex Roever , wrote
in an Oct. 22 research report. The report predicts the Fed will
buy about $250 billion a quarter during the easing campaign.  The central bank makes the securities in its portfolio
available to dealers through its daily securities lending
operation, making it unlikely that Fed purchases alone would
lead to an acute shortage of a given issue.  For now, the Treasury is doing everything it can to show
borrowing independence. The department is extending the average
maturity of its debt and ramping up sales of 10-year and 30-year
securities while cutting issuance of the medium-term securities
the Fed is more likely to buy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  