-- Soccer Body to Discuss World Cup Amid Corruption Concerns
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-10-28T13:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/fifa-to-discuss-soccer-s-world-cup-amid-corruption-concerns-over-votes.html
Soccer’s ruling body is meeting
today for the first time since two of its members were suspended
as part of a corruption investigation and amid mounting tension
among nations vying to host the World Cup.  FIFA  officials and representatives of nine bidders for the
2018 and 2022 World Cups are in Zurich this week. The executive
committee will discuss the suspensions of Nigerian member  Amos Adamu  and Reynald Temarii of Tahiti as well as voting guidelines
for the Dec. 2 vote that will award hosting rights for the 2018
and 2022 versions of the sport’s most-watched event. The session
ends tomorrow.  Adamu and Temarii are banned from attending as FIFA
investigates allegations they offered to trade their votes for
money. The organization is also looking into an alleged pact by
Qatar’s 2022 bid committee and Spain/Portugal’s 2018 bid to
share votes. England has complained about comments made about
the country by Russia.  “We can’t speculate what may or may not happen,” said  Ben Buckley , chief executive officer of Australia’s 2022 bid.
“There’s a process in place and we’ll live with that one way or
another.”  An announcement on Temarii and Adamu’s fate is expected on
Nov. 17. Until then it remains uncertain how many of the 24
executive committee members will be allowed to have a say on
where the World Cup will be staged. FIFA officials declined to
say whether the vote on the 2022 event will be postponed.  Crime Rate  Alexei Sorokin , who heads Russia’s bid, said comments he’d
made to Russian newspaper Sport Express earlier this month had
been misinterpreted by the U.K. media.  “It’s no secret that London has the highest crime rate
when compared with other European cities, and the highest level
of alcohol consumption among young people,” Sport Express
quoted him as saying.  Sorokin said he was using the example as a “metaphor” for
the different approaches media in the U.K. and Russia have taken
to scrutinize the various bidders. In September, Russian soccer
came under the spotlight after fans of Lokomotiv Moscow were
alleged to have displayed a racist banner.  “I simply said there are sicknesses of any society that
our media is not particularly focusing on. These weaknesses many
cities are prone to -- Moscow, London, you name it,” he said.
He’s declined to apologize. FIFA’s guidelines forbid bidders
from criticizing rival nations.  The Sunday Times alleged on Oct. 17 that Adamu and Temarii,
who heads the Oceania confederation, told undercover reporters
that their votes could be exchanged for cash.  ‘Only One Vote’  Both men have vowed to prove their innocence. If Temarii is
thrown out Australia faces the loss of a vote after Oceania
declared for Australia -- now part of the Asian confederation --
in 2008. It’s the only bid that doesn’t have a member on FIFA’s
executive.  “Oceania is only one vote,” Buckley said. “While it is
important and every vote counts, we have to ensure that we get a
lot more support beyond the boundaries of Oceania to ultimately
win.”  The U.S. said Oct. 15 it was withdrawing from the bidding
for the 2018 event to concentrate on 2022. That left England,
Russia and joint bids from Spain and Portugal and Belgium
together with the Netherlands still in contention for 2018.
Japan and South Korea are the remaining bidders for 2022.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  