-- Finance Debt Risky Amid Rescue Uncertainty, Seix’s Keegan Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-10-28T18:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/finance-debt-risky-amid-rescue-uncertainty-seix-s-keegan-says.html
Financial-company debt isn’t
offering sufficient yield to be attractive because U.S. citizens
may object to any additional bailouts if the Federal Reserve
fails to jumpstart the economy, Seix Investment Advisors Inc.
Chief Investment Officer  Jim Keegan  said.  Keegan’s firm, which manages $25 billion of assets from
Upper Saddle River, New Jersey, is limiting its holdings of the
bonds and using credit-default swaps to bet the perceived risk
of certain issues will rise, he said today.  Investors are speculating the Fed may announce plans to buy
more debt to revive the economy as soon as next week. The
central bank can’t do enough to accelerate growth, creating
“very high” odds for a new recession that further hurts banks,
Keegan said. While some money managers buy their bonds because
they believe a repeat of the government’s 2008 and 2009
assistance would protect them, Keegan doesn’t know if “the
country is willing” to allow new rescues and views it as a bad
policy to count on such aid, he said.  “How could I ever go to a client and say, I owned Lehman
because I thought they were going to get bailed out?” he said
in an interview in New York at Bloomberg News headquarters,
referring to the record bankruptcy filing by Lehman Brother
Financial Inc. in September 2008.  Keegan wouldn’t name the companies whose bonds he has bet
against using default swaps, saying that because the positions
were recent additions they probably wouldn’t show up in
disclosures for mutual funds managed by Seix.  RidgeWorth Fund  The  RidgeWorth Total Return Bond Fund , which Keegan co-
manages, has returned 6.81 percent annually over the past five
years, beating 84 percent of competitors. The $774 million fund
has returned 7.24 percent this year, better than 36 percent.  Bank bonds have returned 9.99 percent this year, lagging
behind the overall investment-grade corporate bond market’s 10.9
percent gain as of Oct. 27, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  Banking company debt yields this year have narrowed 21
basis points to 222 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, falling again to near the lowest since May after
spreads widened earlier this month on concern that lenders would
need to repurchase bad mortgages, the index data show. Relative
yields on investment-grade bonds have tightened 14 basis points
to 176 basis points, or 1.76 percentage point.  Keegan said he also disagrees with the idea that regulators
should require banks to sell a type of debt that would be
automatically converted to stock or written off if the seller
needs capital. The use of so-called contingent capital notes,
sometimes called CoCos, was proposed by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision in an August  consultative paper .  Regulators should simply allow investors in the bonds of
failing banks to take losses, which they could have done during
the financial crisis at least as late as the Fed’s March 2008
rescue of Bear Stearns Cos. and averted bigger costs, he said. 
After Lehman failed, lawmakers authorized the $700 billion 
Troubled Asset Relief Program.  “Bondholders who facilitated the bubble should have paid
the price,” Keegan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  