-- Florida Democrat Leads Quinnipiac University Governor Poll for First Time
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2010-10-28T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/florida-democrat-leads-quinnipiac-university-governor-poll-for-first-time.html
Florida Democrat  Alex Sink  leads
Republican  Rick Scott  in the race for governor of the fourth-
most-populous U.S. state for the first time in a Quinnipiac
University poll of likely voters.  Sink, the state’s chief financial officer, was supported by
45 percent of respondents to 41 percent for Scott, a former
health-care executive, in the survey taken Oct. 18-24, the
Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute  said today. The poll of 784 people has an error margin
of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.  Sink was statistically tied with Scott in a Quinnipiac poll
issued Oct. 12 and had trailed him 43 percent to 49 percent in a
survey released Oct. 1. The Nov. 2 race will likely remain tight
because 11 percent of voters are undecided,  Peter A. Brown , the
institute’s assistant director, said in a statement.  “Alex Sink has had a good week,” said Brown. “But with
one in eight voters still in play and Scott’s supporters
slightly more solid in support, this race looks like it will go
to the finish line as a dead heat.”  Sink was viewed favorably by 43 percent of respondents in
the most recent survey, up four points from the Oct. 1 poll. The
positive opinion of Scott fell seven percentage points from Oct.
1 to 34 percent of those surveyed.  “The relatively wide gap between Scott’s unfavorable
rating and his support in the horse race against Ms. Sink is
unusual and probably reflects the Republican leaning of the
electorate,” said Brown.  Broken Rules  The poll was taken before an Oct. 25 debate in which Sink
looked at a text message from a staffer during a commercial
break. That violated the debate rules and generated media
attention and a radio advertisement from the Scott campaign.  Sink, 62, won the CFO post in 2006 in her first run for
office after retiring as  Bank of America Corp. ’s Florida
president in 2000.  She stresses pro-business policies, including a tax credit
for companies that create jobs, a three-year income-tax deferral
for qualified start-ups and more aggressive marketing of Florida
as a tourist and convention destination.  Scott, 57, is running for the first time. He’s campaigning
on a plan to create 700,000 jobs, cut property taxes by 19
percent and phase out the state’s business-income levy over
seven years.  Scott started Columbia Healthcare Corp. in 1987 with two
hospitals. In 1994, Columbia merged with HCA Inc. to become
Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp. It grew to 340 institutions and
$20 billion in annual revenue, according to his campaign
website.  In March 1997, the U.S. government announced an
investigation of the company’s Medicare-billing practices and
Scott left soon after. The company, renamed  HCA Inc.,  eventually
paid more than $1.7 billion related to the Medicare fraud
claims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 