-- Foodmakers Pledge to Fight Obesity With Clear Package Labels
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-10-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/food-makers-pledge-front-of-the-package-nutrition-labels-to-fight-obesity.html
Clear nutritional labels aimed at
helping consumers combat obesity will appear next year on the
products of some of the biggest U.S. food makers, two trade
groups said.  Calorie content and health information will go on the front
of packages in a “fact-based, simple and easy-to-use format,”
the  Food Marketing Institute  and the  Grocery Manufacturers
Association  said yesterday in a joint  statement  announcing the
voluntary labeling system. The new labels will appear early next
year, they said.  The Food and Drug Administration has been pushing for
uniform labels on food and beverage containers as part of a push
to reduce the nation’s obesity rate. The number of people in the
U.S. who are obese has more than  doubled  in the past 30 years to
72 million, according to the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention. People who are overweight or obese have
a greater risk of diabetes, heart attacks and strokes.  “As the details get worked through, our hope is that the
industry will develop a label that aids in consumer
understanding and helps parents and other shoppers easily
identify and select products that contribute to a healthy
diet,”  Siobhan DeLancey , an FDA spokeswoman, said yesterday in
an e-mail.  The new system will be the biggest change to U.S. food
labels in almost 20 years,  David Mackay , president and chief
executive officer of  Kellogg Co.  in Battle Creek, Michigan, said
in the trade groups’ statement.  ‘Industry Commitment’  “This is a landmark step forward in the industry’s
commitment to help address the obesity challenge,” Mackay said.  The groups said they will complete details of the plan,
including technical and design elements, in the coming months.  The Washington-based Grocery Manufacturers Association
represents more than 300 companies including  Nestle SA  of Vevey,
Switzerland, and Northfield, Illinois-based  Kraft Foods Inc. ,
the world’s two biggest food companies, as well as Atlanta-based
 Coca-Cola Co.  and Purchase, New York-based  PepsiCo Inc. , the two
largest soft-drink makers.  Kroger Co. , the largest U.S.
supermarket chain based in Cincinnati, is among the Arlington,
Virginia-based Food Marketing Institute’s 1,500 members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 