-- Ford CFO Booth Says Restoring Dividend `Some Way Off'
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-10-28T21:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/ford-cfo-booth-says-paying-a-common-dividend-some-way-off-.html
Ford Motor Co. , the world’s most
profitable automaker, has to improve its balance sheet more
before restoring common dividends that it canceled four years
ago, Chief Financial Officer  Lewis Booth  said.  “Paying a  dividend  is some way off yet,” Booth, 61, said
today in an interview in New York. “We still have a lot of work
to do on our balance sheet.”  Ford, which posted third-quarter  net income  of $1.69
billion on Oct. 26, has made returning to an investment-grade
credit  rating  a “rallying cry,” Booth has said. The automaker
said that by tomorrow it will have paid down $10.8 billion in
obligations in 2010, lowering its auto operations’  debt  to $22.8
billion compared with cash of $20.3 billion.  Ford suspended its common dividend in 2006, one year after
losing its investment-grade rating.  The second-largest U.S. automaker’s cash flow has improved
and the company should be able to pay a dividend “by 2012 at
the latest,”  John Murphy , an analyst for Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch, wrote in a note after Ford’s earnings.
Murphy, who rates Ford a “buy,” said the automaker’s balance
sheet is “stronger than generally perceived.”  A quarterly dividend of 5 cents a share may be paid in
2012, according to Bloomberg  estimates  based on data including
the company’s guidance, dividend history and regression
analysis.  Ford fell 1 cent to $14.22 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have gained 42 percent
this year.  Saving $800 Million  Ford said earlier this week that its debt reductions will
save about $800 million annually in interest payments. That’s
the equivalent of “a pretty good car program,” Booth said
today in a speech at the Alexander Hamilton Awards, an annual
event for treasury and finance executives in New York.  By tomorrow, Ford will prepay the remaining $3.6 billion it
owes to a union retiree health-care trust using cash, rather
than issuing new stock.  The company said its automotive operations’  cash  and debt
levels will be equal this quarter, a year earlier than had been
planned.  Redesigned models such as the Taurus and Fusion sedans
helped boost Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s U.S. sales to a 21
percent increase this year, more than twice the industrywide
gain of 10 percent, according to Autodata Corp.  UAW Contract Talks  Moody’s Investors Service said earlier this month it
expects Ford to keep its rating for at least one year, which
could be after Ford’s contract talks with the United Auto
Workers. Ford lost its investment-grade rating in 2005.  Ford is "close to being fully competitive" in labor costs
and can achieve parity by hiring new workers under a two-tier
wage system that the UAW agreed to in 2007, Booth said.  The automaker’s union workers receive about $55 an hour in
pay and benefits, while foreign competitors’ U.S. employees get
about $50 an hour, Booth said today. Second-tier workers start
at about half the compensation of hourly production workers
hired previously.  Moody’s raised Ford’s credit rating two levels on Oct. 8 to
Ba2, two steps below investment grade. The automaker’s operating
performance “significantly exceeded” expectations, said
Moody’s, which has upgraded Ford five times in the past 14
months.  S&P said after Ford released third-quarter earnings that
results were consistent with its positive outlook on the
automaker’s B+ rating, four levels below investment grade.
Speculative-grade debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB-by
Standard & Poor’s.  Ford’s 7.45 percent notes due in July 2031 fell 0.375 cent
on the dollar to 113.563 cents on the dollar at 1:35 p.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net . 