-- Further Fox Blackouts Loom as Dish, News Corp. Dispute Fees
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-10-29T20:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/fox-blackout-may-spread-as-dish-parent-news-corp-spar-over-program-fees.html
Dish Network Corp.  customers in some
cities may face their own Fox blackout next week, as the
satellite company feuds with Fox parent  News Corp.  over
programming fees ahead of a Halloween contract deadline.  Dish’s existing contract to carry more than 25 local Fox TV
stations expires at midnight on Oct. 31. If an agreement can’t
be reached, the channels would go dark for more than 3 million
customers in New York, Los Angeles, Washington and other cities.
That would affect Fox shows such as “House” and potentially
the last three games of the World Series.  Fox already cut off programming to  Cablevision Systems
Corp.  in a similar dispute, affecting about 3 million customers
in the New York area. News Corp. said it considers the Fox
network just as valuable as the most expensive cable programming
because of sports shows and hits like “American Idol.”  “It’s going to get really nasty,”  Matthew Harrigan , an
analyst at Wunderlich Securities in Denver, said in an
interview. “Dish is more exposed to programming costs than any
other pay-TV provider because they face a lot of competition.
Fox is absolutely determined to force this through.”  Dish and Fox said they have not yet reached an agreement.
 Francie Bauer , a Dish spokeswoman, said yesterday in an
interview the company is hopeful it can reach a “fair”
agreement.  Scott Grogin , a Fox spokesman, said in an e-mail
yesterday that the company wants a “successful resolution.”  FX and Nat Geo  Dish, the second-largest U.S. satellite-television
provider,  rose  16 cents to $19.87 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have declined 4.3
percent this year. News Corp.  dropped  1 cent to $14.48 and has
gained 5.8 percent in 2010.  Dish subscribers haven’t been able to watch some Fox
programming, including FX, National Geographic and 19 local
sports channels, since separate fee talks broke down on Oct. 1.
Dish said News Corp. was asking for a rate increase of more than
50 percent for its cable content, a claim News Corp. has called
“flat out wrong.”  Pay-TV operators are resisting increased charges, which are
typically passed to the customer, arguing the channels are free
over the public airwaves and on the Internet. Dish, whose
service attracts economically conscious consumers, has expressed
concern it won’t be able to pass along the higher fees in a
sluggish economy.  Higher Expenses  Englewood, Colorado-based Dish lost almost 20,000
subscribers in the  second quarter  amid increased competition and
weak consumer spending. Since Dish only offers video, it can’t
offset higher expenses with other services such as phone or
broadband Internet, unlike rival cable companies including  Time
Warner Cable Inc.   This year, disputes between channel owners and distributors
over fees have led to the most TV blackouts in at least a
decade. In October, Dish subscribers lost access to MSG Network
and MSG Plus. In May, Dish threatened to keep the Weather
Channel off its systems amid negotiations.  Fox pulled its programming from Cablevision on Oct. 16 and
the blackout has been the longest of its kind for a major
broadcast network for a million or more people in at least a
decade. News Corp. is said to be asking $1 a subscriber per
month for the programming, said Harrigan.  Cablevision has called on the U.S. Federal Communications
Commission to intervene and to require Fox to agree to binding
arbitration. Fox has rebuffed arbitration, saying direct
negotiation is the only way to resolve the dispute.  Richard Carlson, a Dish subscriber in Rosemount, Minnesota,
has lost his regional sports programming and is concerned about
the Fox broadcast network being pulled off the air. He said he
is frustrated and doesn’t know which side is telling the truth.  “Fox keeps pushing us to go to another provider, but if I
do that, I don’t know if in two months I’ll be facing the same
thing,” Carlson said. “As consumers, we’re screwed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 