-- France Telecom Profit Rises 1.9%, Beating Estimates
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-28T15:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/france-telecom-profit-rises-1-9-beating-estimates-on-african-expansion.html
France Telecom SA , the country’s
largest phone company, said third-quarter profit rose 1.9
percent on its expansion in Africa and the Middle East, beating
analysts’ estimates. Shares rose the most in three months.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the quarter rose to 4.26 billion euros ($5.89
billion) from 4.21 billion euros in the same period last year,
the Paris-based company said in an e-mailed statement. Analysts
had  predicted  Ebitda of 4.14 billion euros, according to the
average of nine estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue climbed
4 percent to 11.63 billion euros.  “France Telecom has reported a solid set of third-quarter
results beating consensus expectations,”  Hugh McCaffrey , a
Goldman Sachs & Co. analyst in London, wrote in a note.  France Telecom is looking for new customers in Africa and
the Middle East as part of a plan to increase its client base by
about a third by 2015. The company had 55 million customers in
the two regions as of Sept 30, 18 percent more than last year.
Last month, France Telecom said it would pay 640 million euros
for a stake in Morocco’s Medi Telecom SA.  “There are small transactions on the African continent
that could be envisaged, although they aren’t significant in
terms of commitment of cash or size,” Chief Financial Officer
 Gervais Pellissier  said on a conference call with reporters.  Chief Executive Officer  Stephane Richard  has pledged to
spend as much as 7 billion euros on deals in emerging markets.
The expansion comes as France Telecom faces increasing price
competition at home ahead of broadband provider  Iliad SA’s  entry
into the domestic mobile market.  Outlook, Dividend  France Telecom rose 3.1 percent in Paris, the most since
July 29, to 17.20 euros, giving the company a market value of
45.6 billion euros.  The company today confirmed its targets for 2010 and
reiterated a plan to pay a  dividend  of 1.40 euros a share for
2010, 2011 and 2012.  As part of the company’s emerging markets expansion, France
Telecom is interested in participating in the privatization of
Serbia’s Telekom Srbija AD, although at a reasonable price, CFO
Pellissier said.  “The price levels that are going around are much more than
we would be able to spend on this asset,” he said.  The Serbian government is seeking at least 1.4 billion
euros for the sale of a 50-percent stake in the operator, three
people with knowledge of the matter said Oct. 12.  Quadruple Play  At home, France Telecom in August joined Vivendi SA’s SFR
unit and  Bouygues SA’s  Bouygues telecom unit in offering so-
called quadruple play packages that combine fixed-line,
broadband, TV and mobile service.  The company managed to increase its share of new high-speed
broadband connections in its home market to 32.8 percent,
highlighting “the success of the new pricing plans and the Open
quadruple play offers,” Goldman’s McCaffrey  said.  The number of French customers with 3G mobile broadband
service rose 30 percent from a year ago, to almost 9 million at
the end of September.  France Telecom’s financial results no longer include the
performance of its Orange U.K. unit, which merged with  Deutsche
Telekom AG’s  British operations in April.  The joint operator last month said it saw stable second-
quarter revenue, apart from the 101 million-pound ($158 million)
impact of new U.K. rules on mobile termination rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 