-- France Plays Down Bin Laden Attacks Warning, Says It Will Remain Vigilant
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-10-28T15:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/france-plays-down-bin-laden-attacks-warning-says-it-will-remain-vigilant.html
France played down new threats of
attacks from al-Qaeda leader  Osama bin Laden , while saying it
will remain vigilant.  In the recording aired by  Al Jazeera  television yesterday,
and declared authentic by the French Foreign Ministry, Saudi-
born  Bin Laden  warned France that its security is at risk if it
continues to support U.S. policies toward Muslim-majority
countries and prevent Muslim women from wearing veils.  “This message, whose authenticity can be accepted after
the first verifications, does nothing more than confirm the
reality of the terrorist menace against which the French
authorities continue to take appropriate measures,” Foreign
Ministry spokesman  Bernard Valero  said in an e-mailed response
to questions.  Bin Laden  linked the Sept. 15 kidnapping of five French
nationals and two African colleagues in northern Niger to the
presence of French troops in Afghanistan and to a law passed in
September that bans full facial veils. The hostages are being
held by an al-Qaeda offshoot that operates in the Sahara desert.
The Foreign Ministry has refused to make any comments on any
possible negotiations to free the hostages.  “Bin Laden lacks the logistical ability to launch attacks
in the West, so he’s exploiting the Niger hostage situation to
menace France and get media exposure,” said Karim Pakzad, a
researcher at  IRIS , the French Institute for International
Strategic Affairs. “But that doesn’t mean the government isn’t
right to be concerned, because any individual could take it upon
himself to try an attack.”  Eiffel Tower Evacuations  In late September, officials of President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
government signaled an elevated risk of attacks, and the Eiffel
Tower was evacuated twice last month on false bomb alerts.  Following the evacuations, French Interior Minister  Brice Hortefeux  said, “several events remind us that we find ourselves
in a period that demands greater vigilance, particularly against
the risk of terrorist attacks.”  Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, the group which claimed
the Niger kidnapping, declared allegiance to Bin Laden in 2007,
though terrorist experts are divided about whether there are any
operational links between them and Bin Laden’s al-Qaeda
remnants, believed to be hiding on the Afghan-Pakistan border.  Defense Minister  Herve Morin  indicated today that France
may start withdrawing some of its 3,750 troops in Afghanistan
next year, although he said this decision was part of a
timetable agreed to with its allies and had nothing to do with
Bin Laden’s message.  Afghanistan Timetable  “That’s the calendar set by  Barack Obama , that in 2011 the
first American troops could quit Afghanistan,” Morin said on
RTL radio. “And that’s what a certain number of European
countries have started to say.”  Morin said that under a calendar set by the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization, France next year could turn over
responsibility for the Sarobi area east of Kabul to Afghan
security forces.  Bin Laden issued two recordings early this month dealing
with the flooding in Pakistan. While most videos and recordings
by Bin Laden and his deputy  Ayman al-Zawahiri  have threatened
the U.S., they’ve also mentioned European countries with troops
in Afghanistan such as Britain, Germany, Italy and Denmark.  The last terrorist attacks in France were in 1995.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 