-- France to Import Power in All Hours Today as Striking Workers Cut Output
-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 2010-10-28T13:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/france-to-import-power-in-all-hours-today-as-striking-workers-cut-output.html
France, Europe’s second-biggest
power market, will remain a net importer of electricity today as
striking workers cut output at nuclear and thermal plants and
units were halted for maintenance.  Imports were due to peak between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m. at
6,848 megawatts, about equal to the output of five nuclear
reactors, according to the website of  Reseau de Transport
d’Electricite . France will import power from Germany, the U.K.
and Belgium during all hours today, the grid operator said.  As many as 15 reactors of Electricite de France SA’s 58
units will be offline tomorrow, data from RTE shows. Striking
workers at EDF cut nuclear and thermal power output by as much
as 8,000 megawatts, the Confederation Generale du Travail union
said in an e-mailed statement.  Unions are divided about the course of action after the
lower house of parliament yesterday cast its final vote,
approving the bill that will raise the minimum retirement age to
62 from 60. The bill must be vetted by the Constitutional Court
before it is promulgated into law by President Nicolas Sarkozy.  Electricity traded as high as 105 euros ($145.86) a
megawatt hour for delivery today from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. and as
low as 58 euros for supplies from 11 p.m. to midnight, according
to data from  Epex Spot SE  exchange in Paris.  Nuclear reactors at Chinon, Flamanville, Cruas and Golfech
had their production lowered by 3,955 megawatts while the
reduction at thermal power plants was 2,295 megawatts, according
to an earlier statement. The union said halts for maintenance at
plants at Cruas and Le Havre were also disrupted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lars Paulsson  in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  