-- LG Electronics Posts Back-to-Back Record Mobile-Phone Losses
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2010-10-28T11:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/lg-electronics-posts-back-to-back-record-mobile-phone-losses.html
LG Electronics Inc.  posted a second
straight quarter of record losses from its main mobile-phone
business as the world’s third-largest handset maker struggles to
compete against  Apple Inc .’s iPhone in the smartphone market.  Losses from mobile phones swelled to 303.8 billion won
($270 million) in the third quarter, more than double the
previous record in the preceding three-month period, Seoul-based
LG said today. That led to a 99 percent drop in  net income .  The results may raise the pressure on  Koo Bon Joon , who
took over as chief executive officer this month, to produce
models able to challenge the iPhone,  Research In Motion Ltd .’s
BlackBerry and  Samsung Electronics  Co.’s Galaxy. LG introduced
the Optimus One smartphone this month to compete in the fastest-
growing segment of the mobile-phone industry.  “The company is trying to put its mobile-phone business
back on track, but the question is how much it can improve
profitability,” said  Lee Jin Woo , a fund manager at KTB Asset
Management Co., which manages $9.8 billion in assets in Seoul.
“We need to wait and see whether demand revives as expected.  LG  rose 1 percent to 102,000 won at the 3 p.m. close of
trading on the Korea Exchange, while the benchmark Kospi index
lost 0.1 percent.  Net income was 7.6 billion won, compared with the 50.7
billion won loss forecast based on the average of 12 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. LG booked 86.2 billion won in
gains from its  LG Display Co.  unit.  The electronics maker posted an operating loss, which
subtracts the cost of goods sold and administrative expenses
from sales, of 185.2 billion won. That was wider than the 122
billion won average estimated by analysts.  Handsets Business  Profitability at the mobile communications division, which
makes handsets, worsened in the third quarter as sales in the
U.S. and Europe fell and the company increased investment, LG
said in a statement. LG aims to increase sales by between 5
percent and 10 percent in the fourth quarter from the previous
quarter, according to the statement.  The business likely won’t turn profitable until the first
or second quarter next year, Chief Financial Officer  David Jung 
said at a briefing in Seoul. LG’s overall outlook for the fourth
quarter LG isn’t bright because of uncertainties about the
global economic recovery and increasing competition, he said.  Optimus One  LG began selling the Optimus One smartphone this month in a
bid to revamp its handset business. It aims to sell 10 million
units of the model, running on  Google Inc. ’s latest Android 2.2
operating system, in about 90 countries. LG will also sell two
models based on Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone 7 operating
system this year.  “We’re currently trying to expand our smartphone lineup
and expect Optimus One to be a catalyst in recovering profit,”
Jung said. LG is working to introduce a “premium” smartphone
model early next year, which the company is betting on to help
boost profitability of its handset business, he said.  Operating profit  at LG’s home-entertainment division, which
makes televisions and DVD players, climbed 8.9 percent to 122.9
billion won as sales of liquid-crystal display TVs increased.
The median estimate of five analysts in a Bloomberg News survey
forecast an operating profit of 59.4 billion won.  LG sold 6.6 million units of flat-screen TVs in the third
quarter, compared with 4.8 million units a year ago, the company
said. LG said it will focus on selling TVs using light-emitting
diodes, or LED, as screen backlights in the fourth quarter,
while increasing investment in developing products that allow
users to connect to the Internet and download applications.  Prices for LG TVs will probably fall 6 percent to 8 percent
in the fourth quarter from the previous period, Jung said.  Global LCD television shipments may increase 24 percent to
180 million units in 2010, Bank of America Corp. Merrill Lynch
said in an Oct. 19 report, lowering its previous growth estimate
of 29 percent. Merrill cited weak demand in the U.S. and Europe,
as well as high inventory for the revision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jun Yang  in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 