-- Gates Family Battles Ballmer, Bezos on Washington Income Tax
-- B y   P e t e r   R o b i s o n
-- 2010-10-28T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/gates-family-battles-ballmer-bezos-over-washington-income-tax.html
A battle over a proposed  Washington 
state income tax is pitting  Microsoft Corp . co-founder  Bill Gates , the richest American, against some of his fellow
billionaires.  Gates and his father,  Bill Gates Sr. , support an initiative
to tax the wealthiest 1.2 percent of state residents, which
would raise $2 billion a year for education and health-care
programs shrunk by budget cuts. The state now collects no
personal income taxes.  The proposal has drawn criticism from Microsoft and other
large state employers, while billionaires including Microsoft
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer , Amazon.com Inc. founder
 Jeff Bezos  and wireless entrepreneur  Craig McCaw  are all funding
a $6.3 million campaign to defeat it. Opponents say a tax will
make it harder to lure business to the state and that the levy
will be eventually expanded to other income levels.  “This is the Trojan horse for going after an income tax on
the middle class,” said  Ken Fisher , 59, the billionaire CEO of
Fisher Investments Inc. in Woodside, California.  About 325 of the fund manager’s 1,200 employees are based
in Vancouver, Washington. Fisher previously said he may move the
firm’s headquarters to Washington or to another state without an
income tax. He said that decision hinges in part on how
Washington voters respond to the ballot proposal, known as
 Initiative 1098 .  Income Disparity  Debate over the state tax mirrors a national one over
growing income inequality. As the recession pushed U.S. incomes
down last year, America’s highest earners -- 74 people who
earned more than $50 million -- saw their pay more than
quintuple to a record $519 million each, government data show.  The Obama administration has cited such inequality to make
a case that the federal government should end tax cuts enacted
in 2001 and 2003 for couples earning more than $250,000.
Republicans say any tax increase will stifle job creation.  The Washington plan is one of 159 referendums on ballots in
36 states on Nov. 2, according to the  Initiative & Referendum
Institute  at the University of Southern California. The measure
would tax income above $200,000 for individuals and $400,000 for
couples, while cutting the state portion of property taxes by 20
percent and eliminating a tax on small businesses.  Since 2008, eight states including neighboring Oregon have
raised levies on high-income residents, according to a May 18
 report  by the Manhattan Institute in New York.  Washington, which ranked No. 13 among the 50 states in per-
capita  income  in 2008, relies on sales taxes as its  principal
revenue source . The recession sapped consumer spending,
contributing to a projected $520 million deficit through June.
Governor  Christine Gregoire  last month ordered a 6.3 percent cut
in state spending.  Support for Education  The cutbacks may eliminate as many as 9,000 slots at
community and technical colleges, close a prison and lower
funding for three of four school districts that get extra state
money, Gregoire has said. She estimates the state has reduced
spending by $5.1 billion in three years.  “We are not supporting our education institutions in a way
that’s producing the results that we want for our young
people,” Gates Sr., 84, said in an interview.  Money raised from the tax -- 5 percent on individual income
above $200,000 and 9 percent above $500,000 -- would increase
teachers’ salaries, support early learning, reverse cuts to
state universities and fund long-term care for seniors, he said.  The retired lawyer and philanthropist has been the public
face of the proposal. One television commercial made light of
the idea backers want to soak the rich by showing Gates Sr.
dropped into a carnival dunk tank.  Father and Son  Gates Sr. put $600,000 into the $6.4 million campaign,
state records  show . Labor groups including the National
Education Association, the Service Employees International Union
and the Washington Federation of State Employees contributed
about $4 million.  The elder Gates has said his son, William H. Gates III,
whose fortune was estimated at $54 billion by Forbes magazine in
September, the most in the U.S., will also vote for the
initiative.  John Pinette , a spokesman for the younger Gates,
confirmed his support.  Current Microsoft CEO Ballmer  contributed  $425,000 to the
campaign to defeat the measure, Microsoft co-founder  Paul Allen 
gave $100,000 and Microsoft General Counsel  Brad Smith  added
$10,000. Billionaire McCaw put in $2,500, records show.  More for Money  Opponents say school advocates should think harder about
ways to improve education. The state Legislature has already
increased kindergarten-through-high school spending by 70
percent in the past 12 years, said  Matt McIlwain , managing
director at  Madrona Venture Group  in Seattle.  “Why can’t we get more out of $12,746-per-student per
year?” he said. “That’s well north of the average private
school tuition in this city.”  The tax measure was trailing in an Oct. 15
KCTS/KPLU/Washington Poll, with 42 percent in favor and 51
percent opposed. The poll had a margin of error of 4.3
percentage points.  Billionaire Fisher is so wary that he says he won’t move
his firm’s headquarters to Washington even if voters narrowly
reject the measure. He wants to see a defeat by at least 5
percentage points to discourage organizers.  “If it gets within 5 percent of passing this year, they’ll
bring it back with a vengeance,” Fisher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Robison  in Seattle at 
 robison@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum in New York at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 