-- GM Paying Down Debt, Other Obligations by $11 Billion
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l ,   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2010-10-28T20:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/general-motors-start-repaying-debt-employee-obligations-by-11-billion.html
General Motors Co. , preparing for an
initial public offering, plans to reduce its debt and other
obligations by $11 billion, cutting interest costs and preferred
dividends by $500 million a year.  The automaker also has paid $2.8 billion to the United Auto
Workers retiree health-care trust, according to a statement on
the company’s website. Detroit-based GM will buy back
$2.1 billion of preferred stock from the U.S. Treasury and
contribute at least $6 billion in cash and stock to hourly and
salaried pension funds after its IPO.  GM said it has also secured a $5 billion, five-year
revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks, which it
expects to leave “generally undrawn.”  “They’re trying to clean up their balance sheet to get it
as clean as possible before the IPO,”  Rebecca Lindland , an
analyst at IHS Automotive in Lexington, Massachusetts, said in a
telephone interview.  GM has filed a registration statement with the Securities
and Exchange Commission for an IPO that would return the company
to public markets after reorganizing in bankruptcy last year
backed by $49.5 billion in government aid. The shares will begin
trading by Nov. 19, people familiar with the matter have said.  “These actions will bring down our leverage by $11 billion
by reducing debt and improving our pension funding position,”
Chief Financial Officer  Chris Liddell  said today in the
statement.  U.S. Repayment  GM will purchase the Treasury’s 83,898,305 Series A shares
at $25.50 per share, the Treasury said. GM will execute its
purchase on the first dividend payment date scheduled to occur
after the IPO.  With the repurchase, taxpayers will have received
$9.5 billion in repayments, interest and dividends from GM since
the automaker emerged from bankruptcy in July 2009, the Treasury
said. Total funds invested in GM include $13.4 billion under the
Bush administration and $36.1 billion under the Obama
administration, the department said in the statement.  “We will probably come pretty close to getting much of
that back,”  Maryann Keller , president of Maryann Keller &
Associates, said today in an interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” on Bloomberg Radio. “I think you’re gradually
going to see some pretty good numbers out of General Motors.”  $131 a Share  For the Treasury to recoup its investment in GM, it needs
to sell shares for an average price of $131 before splits, a
person familiar with the matter said last month. The stock will
be split to sell at an initial price of around $20 a share, said
that person and two others.  GM’s commitment to pay down these obligations shows that
its cash flow must be improving, said  Joe Phillippi , principal
of AutoTrends Inc., a consulting firm in Short Hills, New
Jersey. GM must expect to remain profitable, even while U.S.
new-vehicle sales are running about 30 percent slower than the
16.8 million annual average from 2000 to 2007.  “We’re still not out of the woods with this car market,”
Phillippi said. “If they weren’t showing strong cash flow, they
wouldn’t take the risk.”  GM said separately today that it will invest $190 million
in a Lansing, Michigan, assembly plant to make a smaller
Cadillac sedan alongside the brand’s midsize CTS models and
larger STS. That brings to more than $3 billion the amount that
the company has invested in the U.S. since emerging from
bankruptcy in June 2009, the company said.  Expanding U.S. Base  “It’s important that we do our best to return the
investment to the American taxpayers,” Chief Executive Officer
 Dan Akerson  said today at the facility. “The way to do that is
to expand our industrial base.”  GM earned $2.6 billion in the first half. The company
hasn’t said when it will report third-quarter results. GM’s U.S.
sales rose 6.8 percent through September as industrywide
deliveries increased 10 percent, according to Autodata Corp.  Ford Motor Co. , the second-largest U.S. automaker, said it
will have paid down $10.8 billion in obligations this year by
the end of this week while reporting third-quarter net income of
 $1.69 billion  on Oct. 26. The Dearborn, Michigan-based company
avoided bankruptcy by borrowing $23 billion in late 2006 before
credit markets froze.  Moody’s Investors Service said GM’s cash position and
credit metrics were superior to Ford’s in a report on Oct. 15
report. The New York-based firm rates both companies Ba2, the
second level below investment grade.  Improving Balance Sheet  Bruce Clark , a Moody’s analyst, said in an Oct. 11 report
that reducing GM’s $26 billion of unfunded pension liabilities
would “give it the kind of balance sheet it needs to contend
with the industry’s ongoing cyclicality.”  Standard & Poor’s today said it rates GM’s revolving credit
facility BB+, two levels higher than its BB- rating on the
parent company. The higher ranking implies that lenders would
recover 90 percent to 100 percent of principal in the event of a
default, S&P said.  GM’s 8.375 percent bonds due July 2033, which were issued
by old General Motors Corp. and convert to shares in the new GM,
rose 1 cent on the dollar to 36 cents at 3:40 p.m. today in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-pricing service of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The last time those
bonds closed at 36 cents on the dollar was Aug. 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Lansing, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  