-- Genworth's Profit Misses Analysts' Estimates on Mortgage-Insurance Losses
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-28T21:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/genworth-s-profit-misses-analysts-estimates-on-mortgage-insurance-losses.html
Genworth Financial Inc. , the
mortgage guarantor and life insurer, reported a third-quarter
profit that missed analysts’ estimates as losses tied to home
loans climbed. The shares declined 10 percent.  Net income rose to $83 million, or 17 cents a share, from
$19 million, or 4 cents, a year earlier, the Richmond, Virginia-
based insurer said today in a statement. Operating income
available to common shareholders, which excludes some investment
results, was 6 cents a share, missing the 26-cent  average
estimate  of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Mortgage delinquencies tend to rise in the third
quarter,”  Steven Schwartz , a Raymond James & Associates Inc.
analyst who rates Genworth “outperform,” said before results
were announced. “They begin to go up in the second half of the
year as people get strained and money gets spent.”  Genworth, led by Chief Executive Officer  Michael Fraizer ,
is among mortgage insurers tightening underwriting standards and
raising prices to recover from losses that started in 2008.
Finance chief  Patrick Kelleher  said in September that the U.S.
mortgage-insurance business will return to profit by mid-2011 as
credit improves.  Genworth fell as low as $11.30 in extended trading
following the announcement. It has gained about 11 percent in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading this year. The insurer
was among the leaders of the  KBW Insurance Index  before second-
quarter results missed some analyst estimates and shares fell.  Mortgage Insurance  Operating losses at the U.S. mortgage-insurance unit
widened to $152 million from $116 million a year earlier as the
insurer set aside more reserves. International earnings climbed
to $121 million from $96 million a year earlier.  “Results in the quarter demonstrate continued earnings
momentum in the international segment with mixed results in the
U.S. reflecting the slow economy and struggling housing market,
particularly in Florida,” Fraizer said in the statement.  Mortgage insurers, which pay lenders when homeowners
default and foreclosures fail to recoup costs, have lost money
over the past three years because of the surge in soured loans.
Almost 10 percent of all U.S. home mortgages were delinquent in
the second quarter, according to the Washington-based Mortgage
Bankers Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  