-- German Diplomats Participated in Nazi Crimes, Minister Westerwelle Says
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-10-28T13:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/german-diplomats-participated-in-nazi-crimes-minister-westerwelle-says.html
Germany’s foreign service played an
active role in Nazi crimes under  Adolf Hitler  and continued to
employ diplomats tied to the regime after World War II, Foreign
Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said today in Berlin.  Westerwelle was scheduled to speak at an event marking the
publication of a history of the ministry’s role in the Third
Reich commissioned in 2005. The book, titled “The Ministry and
the Past: German Diplomats in the Third Reich and the Federal
Republic,” debunks postwar assumptions that Nazi-era diplomats
played a minor role in crimes or even resisted the regime.  “The  Foreign Ministry  was directly complicit in the brutal
policies of the Nazi regime and was informed at an early stage
of Germany’s criminal war practices,” Westerwelle said at the
ministry, according to a speech text sent by email. “It
participated in the systematic extermination of European Jews
with administrative coldness.”  In the study published this week, four independent
historians illuminate the role of the German diplomatic corps
under Hitler and his foreign minister, Joachim von Ribbentrop,
as well as the degree to which Nazis remained employed at the
ministry after the war.  Diplomatic training from the mid-1930s included attending a
reception with Hitler in his Alpine getaway and a visit to
Dachau concentration camp, the 900-page study revealed.  Murder Expenses  Westerwelle referred to the discovery of a 1941 travel
expense from Franz Rademacher, the ministry official responsible
for implementing Hitler’s anti-Semitic policies. The purpose of
his trip was the “liquidation of Jews in Belgrade,” he wrote.  “The unimaginable became reality,” Westerwelle said. “In
this Foreign Ministry, one could write off murder as a business
expense.”  Following the Nazi defeat and the founding of the Federal
Republic of Germany, about 40 percent of the reconstituted
ministry’s staff in Bonn were one-time Nazi party members.
Diplomats included Herbert Mueller-Roschach, who planned the
transport of Jews around eastern Europe during the war. He was
ambassador to Portugal from 1966 to 1969.  Westerwelle called the history, written by Eckart Conze,
Norbert Frei,  Peter Hayes  and Moshe Zimmermann, a “necessary
book” that would become required reading for future German
diplomats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  