-- Giants Batter Lee, Beat Rangers 11-7 in Game One of World Series
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2010-10-28T05:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/giants-batter-cliff-lee-beat-rangers-11-7-in-opening-game-of-world-series.html
The opening game of the World Series
was supposed to be a showcase for pitchers  Cliff Lee  of the
Texas Rangers and  Tim Lincecum  of the San Francisco Giants.  Instead, it turned into a display of offensive prowess and
defensive shoddiness, as well as mental sloppiness, in an 11-7
Giants win that included 25 hits and six errors.  Juan Uribe’s  three-run blast capped a six-run fifth inning,
and  Freddy Sanchez  had three doubles and drove in three runs for
the Giants last night at AT&T Park in San Francisco.  “It’s just baseball, this is a crazy game,” Sanchez said
in a news conference. “Fortunately enough for us, we were able
to come out on top.”  Lee gave up seven runs on eight hits in 4 2/3 innings. He
had a 7-0 postseason record entering the game and allowed two
runs in 24 innings as the Rangers defeated the Tampa Bay Rays
and New York Yankees to win the American League pennant.  Lincecum got the win for the Giants, who are seeking their
first World Series title since 1954, when they were based in New
York. Lincecum allowed four runs on eight hits in 5 2/3 innings.  “They got to Cliff tonight, we didn’t get to Lincecum,”
Rangers manager  Ron Washington  said in a news conference. “They
just scored more runs than we could put up.”  The Giants had six doubles among their 14 hits. The Rangers
committed four errors, including two by right-fielder  Vladimir Guerrero , who only started 16 games in the outfield this season.  Error Tally  The six errors overall were the most in a World Series game
since 1997, when Cleveland and Florida each made three errors in
Game 3.  There also were mental mistakes. Lincecum forgot to tag a
runner. The Rangers’  Ian Kinsler  overran first base and was
tagged out after hitting an infield single. Sanchez strayed too
far from second base on a fly ball and was unable to get back to
the bag.  “We faced a great pitcher tonight and he wasn’t quite on
top of his game, and Timmy wasn’t quite as sharp, either,”
Giants manager  Bruce Bochy  said in a news conference. “It’s not
quite the game we thought it would be.”  The winner of Game 1 has gone on to capture the
championship in 64 of the previous 105 World Series, a 61
percent success rate.  The Rangers, playing in the World Series for the first time
in the franchise’s 50-year history, have never won in 10 games
at AT&T Park and haven’t defeated the Giants in eight games
overall dating to 2001.  Game 2 Starters  Game 2 is set for tonight in San Francisco, weather
permitting. The National Weather Service predicts a 40 percent
chance of rain in the afternoon and a 50 percent chance of rain
at night. The game is scheduled to start at 4:57 p.m. local
time.  Matt Cain  is set to start for the Giants against the
Rangers’  C.J. Wilson . An off-day is planned for tomorrow before
the best-of-seven series shifts to Rangers Ballpark in
Arlington, Texas.  Aubrey Huff  added three hits last night for the Giants, who
became the first team to hold the Rangers without a home run in
a game this postseason. Texas hit 17 home runs in 11 games en
route to the World Series.  Uribe batted in two game-winning runs in the Giants’ 4-2
ouster of the Phillies in the National League Championship
Series, including a solo home run in Philadelphia five days ago
that clinched the National League pennant.  ‘Clicked’  “We just clicked on all cylinders tonight, and it took
that because they had some good at-bats, too,” Bochy said.
“We’re not a team that tries to slug it out with other teams.”  Elvis Andrus  led off the game for Texas by lining a single
to left field and  Michael Young  walked. One out later, Guerrero
had a run-scoring infield single that went off Lincecum’s left
knee.  Texas made it 2-0 in the second.  Bengie Molina  singled and
moved to third when Lee faked a bunt and then doubled to left-
center. Andrus followed with a sacrifice fly.  The Giants tied the game in the third on an error by third
baseman Young, a hit batsman, a run-scoring double by Sanchez
that went just past Young’s glove and into the left-field corner
and a run-scoring single by  Buster Posey . The runs broke a 16-
inning scoreless streak by Lee.  Giants’ Big Inning  Then came the big inning, in which the Giants sent 11 men
to the plate.  Consecutive one-out doubles by  Andres Torres  and Sanchez,
followed an out later by  Cody Ross’s  run-scoring single on Lee’s
100th pitch, gave the Giants a 4-2 lead.  Four pitches later, Huff knocked out Lee with a run-scoring
single that made it 5-2. Uribe then greeted reliever  Darren O’Day  with his homer about 10 rows deep in the left-field
stands.  The Rangers pulled within 8-4 in the sixth on a run-scoring
double by Molina and a run-scoring single by pinch-hitter  David Murphy  that knocked Lincecum out of the game.  The Giants added their final three runs in the eighth
inning on a run-scoring double by pinch-hitter  Travis Ishikawa 
and run-scoring singles by Sanchez and  Nate Schierholtz .
Guerrero made his two errors in the inning.  The Rangers scored three runs in the ninth on Guerrero’s
sacrifice fly and a two-run double by  Nelson Cruz  off  Brian Wilson , the seventh Giants pitcher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  at AT&T Park in San Francisco at 
1397 or  rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  