-- Pound Extends Gain Versus Dollar on Economy Optimism; Steady Versus Euro
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-28T14:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/gilts-rise-pound-drops-versus-euro-after-house-prices-fall-on-cuts-fears.html
The pound reached its highest level
in more than a week against the dollar amid optimism that
better-than-expected economic growth will delay a second round
of asset purchases from the Bank of England.  Sterling extended its gain against the greenback this month
to 1.3 percent. Government statistics this week showed Britain’s
economy grew at a 0.8 percent pace in the third quarter, double
that forecast by economists, while Standard & Poor’s removed its
negative outlook and affirmed its top AAA credit rating for the
U.K. The pound rose even as a  retail-sales index  released today
fell for the first time in five months.  “Sterling is still benefiting from the spillover effect
from the stronger-than-expected GDP, which will cool down
speculation that the BOE will be forced into more quantitative
easing sooner rather than later,” said  Roberto Mialich , senior
currency strategist at UniCredit SpA in Milan. “Retail sales
today were pretty in line with consensus, and had little impact
on sterling.”  The pound strengthened 1 percent against the dollar to
$1.5926 at 3:26 p.m. in London, recouping yesterday’s decline
and posting its third day of gains this week. Sterling was 0.1
percent stronger at 87.26 pence per euro and 128.98 yen.  The pound has still depreciated 4.3 percent this year
against a basket of its developed-country peers, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, making it the
second-worst performing currency, after the euro.  Retail Sales  The pound earlier fell as much as 0.5 percent against the
euro after a report by Nationwide Building Society showed the
average cost of a home dropped by 0.7 percent from September to
164,381 pounds ($259,000), the lowest since February.  The number of retailers saying sales volumes rose from a
year earlier outnumbered those reporting declines by 36
percentage points, compared with a six-year high of 49 in
September, the London-based  Confederation of British Industry
said  in a report today. Economists expected a reading of 35
percentage points, the median forecast of a Bloomberg survey.  A gauge of expectations for the following month was at 43,
compared with 47 in September. The CBI said retail sales
exceeded the average for this time of year.  U.K. government bonds were little changed, with the yield
on the 10-year gilt staying close to the highest in more than
five weeks at 3.15 percent. 10-year note yields have climbed 24
basis points in the past month. Two-year yields rose one basis
point to 0.72 percent.  Gilts returned investors 7.8 percent since the end of 2009,
beating an 7.7 percent gain from German debt, but less than the
8.1 percent return from U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  