-- Glaxo to Get Largest U.S. Solar Rooftops; Uses Suntech Panels
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2010-10-28T13:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/glaxo-to-get-largest-u-s-solar-rooftops-uses-suntech-panels.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc , the U.K.’s
largest drugmaker, is building the largest U.S. rooftop solar
project at its distribution center in York, Pennsylvania, to
reduce energy costs and emissions of greenhouse gasses.  The three-megawatt solar system will use 11,000 solar
panels made by  Suntech Power Holdings Co.  and provide all of the
electricity the building consumes during the year, London-based
Glaxo said today in a statement.  Glaxo is trying to meet a goal of reducing electricity use
45 percent by 2015, and plans to start a second three-megawatt
system at its U.S. headquarters in Pittsburgh by the end of next
year, said Larry Brown, vice president of North America Supply
at Glaxo’s consumer health care unit.  “This is just the beginning of a four-part strategy to go
solar,” Brown said in an interview. “By the end of 2014 we’ll
be 100 percent powered by solar.”  Glaxo hired  American Capital Energy , a closely held
developer based in North Chelmsford, Massachusetts, to design
and install the solar rooftop in York as well as a 700-kilowatt
system at a distribution center in Fresno, California, in March.  For the York installation, Glaxo expects to receive a $1
million grant from the state of Pennsylvania and $4.1 million in
a federal tax grant, as well as generate renewable energy
credits to help offset the system costs. It should pay for
itself through lower power bills in five years, and the
electricity is free after that, Brown said.  The largest rooftop solar installation operating in the
U.S. is a 2.36-megawatt system at the  Atlantic City  Convention
Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Martin  in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 