-- Milk Scandal Memories Drag Global Dairy Shares Lower on Debut in Hong Kong
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2010-10-29T04:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/global-dairy-slides-in-hong-kong-on-memory-of-china-s-tainted-milk-scandal.html
Global Dairy Holdings Ltd.  fell for
a second day in Hong Kong after yesterday enduring the city’s
fifth-worst trading debut of 2010 as skepticism about China’s
dairy industry lingers two years after about 300,000 children
were sickened by tainted milk.  Global Dairy dropped 3.3 percent to HK$3.81 at the 12:30
p.m. lunch break in Hong Kong. Its shares  fell  10 percent
yesterday. The 59 stocks started trading in Hong Kong in 2010
through yesterday rose an average 12.5 percent from their
initial prices, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Three Chinese dairy companies, including Global Dairy, are
collectively seeking about $850 million in their Hong Kong IPOs
this quarter, betting that enough trust in the industry has been
restored after milk tainted with melamine, a toxic chemical,
killed at least six infants in China in 2008. The country’s
government has since implemented new food-safety standards and
is reviewing local authorities’ efforts regarding milk powder
and other products.  “Dairy farms in China are not modernized yet and there’s
still skepticism,” said  Nicholas Yeo , who helps oversee China
equities fund at Aberdeen Asset which manages $261 billion
globally, “I suspect investors will have short-term memory, but
we tend to be more conservative.”  Yeo said he doesn’t plan to buy shares in the dairy initial
public offerings because of concerns about the quality of milk
products made in China.  Yashili, Modern Farming  Global Dairy  Chief Executive Officer  Zhao Yu  said his
company wasn’t implicated in the tainted milk scandal. The
company plans to develop farms to have more control of the
quality of its products, Zhao said at a listing ceremony in Hong
Kong yesterday. The company’s IPO, which was priced in the
middle of a range indicated by term sheets sent to investors,
raised $204 million.  Yashili International Holdings Ltd. , the Chinese milk-
product maker backed by Carlyle Group, will start trading on Nov.
1, while  Modern Farming (Group) Co. , based in the eastern
province of Anhui, aims to list next month. Yashili, based in
Chaozhou, southern China, sold 644 million shares at HK$4.20
apiece, near the midpoint of the offer range.  Consumers and investors remain cautious about the quality
of milk powder produced in mainland China, with parents buying
foreign brands of infant formula from Hong Kong or elsewhere.  “I’ve completely lost confidence in milk powder made in
China,” said Emily Tang, 31, a civil servant from the southern
city of Shenzhen, who has a three-year-old daughter. “My child
has always had a U.S. formula  bought from Hong Kong .”  Among people she knows, only those who can’t afford to buy
foreign brands will resort to milk powder made in China, Tang
said.  ‘Scars Run Deep’  China last month announced a range of measures aimed at
improving confidence in the industry, including factory
inspections, increased testing and a crackdown on illegal dairy
production. Three people were sentenced to death in the wake of
the scandal.  “Throughout 2010, the domestic industry has progressively
recovered,” said  Matthew Marsden , a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Samsung Securities Co. “However, the scars of melamine
incidents will run deep in the minds of Chinese consumers.
Foreign dairy products and pediatric milk formulas will continue
to command a premium in the Chinese market.”  Recovering sales of Chinese dairy companies is an indicator
that confidence is returning to domestic brands, according to
Marsden and  Alice Hui , an analyst at DBS Vickers Hong Kong Ltd.  Sanlu Collapse  First-half sales at  China Mengniu Dairy Co. , the country’s
biggest dairy company by market capitalization, rose to 14.4
billion yuan ($2.15 billion) from 12.1 billion yuan a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Before the
milk scandal, Mengniu reported sales of 13.7 billion yuan in the
first half of 2008, the data show.  Fu Chong , chief operations officer at Global Dairy, said on
Oct. 14 that the collapse of Sanlu Group Co., which was at the
center of the 2008 scandal, created an opportunity for companies
making quality products to grow quickly.  “The collapse of Sanlu created room of about 4 billion
yuan in the dairy market,” Fu told reporters in Hong Kong.
Global Dairy’s  revenue  began to grow rapidly in 2008 as rival
products disappeared from shelves because of the scandal, the
company’s CEO Zhao said at the same briefing.  “China’s dairy industry has been consolidating as
regulation, especially in the area of safety, is becoming more
onerous, putting pressure on smaller dairies,” Samsung
Securities’ Marsden said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  