-- MGM, Dubai World Refinancing $1.8 Billion CityCenter Bank Loan
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2010-10-28T18:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/mgm-dubai-world-refinancing-1-8-billion-citycenter-bank-loan.html
MGM Resorts International  and Dubai
World, owners of the CityCenter development on the Las Vegas
Strip, are seeking to refinance the property’s $1.8 billion loan
to extend maturities.  MGM Resorts, the biggest casino operator on the Strip,
would like to own all of CityCenter eventually, Chief Executive
Officer  Jim Murren  said today in an interview. No buyout talks
have been held with Dubai World, but the partnership has a five-
year agreement that gives MGM the right to purchase the other’s
half if it’s sold, Murren said.  CityCenter, the $8.5 billion joint venture that opened in
Las Vegas in December after skirting potential bankruptcy,
includes hotels, condominiums, the Aria casino and Crystals
mall. MGM Resorts said this month CityCenter’s  cash flow  turned
positive in the third quarter, after losing money for the first
six months. In August, the joint venture’s equity value was
written down to $2.65 billion.  “I certainly would like to own it long term,” Murren said
in the interview in New York. “CityCenter and Aria specifically
are already showing the signs that it’s going to emerge as one
of the profit leaders in the market.”  MGM and other casino companies including Harrah’s
Entertainment Inc. and Boyd Gaming Corp. are tapping public
markets and refinancing debt as a record slump in Las Vegas
eases and casino bonds rally.  New Loans  The partners are “in the market now” to replace
CityCenter’s loan with new financing that matures in five to
eight years, Murren said. The refinancing will be completed
before the end of March, because CityCenter will “most likely”
not be compliance with covenants on the existing debt after
that, he said.  The new financing will probably consist of a first-lien
loan and a second-lien piece, Murren said. Bank of America Corp.
is the lead bank for the existing facility.  “We’re going to put together a capital structure that’s
much more long term, and more in keeping with a project like
that,” Murren said in an interview with Bloomberg TV. It “takes
that uncertainty off the table and puts CityCenter in a very
solid capital structure going forward.” Parts of the interview
will be broadcast tomorrow morning at 7:45 a.m. in New York on
“Inside Track” with Deirdre Bolton.  MGM Debt  MGM Resorts this month raised $511 million by selling
equity and issued $500 million bonds to repay some of its almost
$13 billion in  debt . Investors are betting on a Las Vegas
recovery after Strip gambling revenue jumped 21 percent in
August.  The Las Vegas-based company will use the proceeds and some
cash to repay $1.2 billion to banks “as early as next week,”
Murren said. MGM Resorts has extended the rest of the senior
credit facility, $3.6 billion, to 2014 from its original October
2011 maturity.  MGM Resorts addressed solvency concerns in May 2009 after
refinancing debt when it sold more than $1 billion in common
stock and $1.5 billion in senior secured notes as part of a
recapitalization. The company has subsequently tapped capital
markets when investor demand for junk debt and casino stocks has
rallied, including a $1 billion convertible note sale in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  