-- Gold May Decline Next Week on Concern Prices Rose Too High, Survey Shows
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2010-10-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/gold-may-decline-next-week-on-concern-prices-rose-too-high-survey-shows.html
Gold may decline on concern that
prices rose too high amid speculation about Federal Reserve
asset purchases, a survey found.  Thirteen of 26 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 50 percent, said the metal will fall next week.
Eight forecast higher prices and five were neutral. Gold for
December delivery was up 0.7 percent for this week at $1,335 an
ounce at 11:15 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in New York. It
reached an all-time high of $1,388.10 on Oct. 14.  Before last week, prices rallied for five weeks as the
dollar sank on speculation about further so-called quantitative
easing by the Fed. The currency rebounded last week amid
speculation that the central bank may expand easing steps
gradually, slowing the dollar’s depreciation. Gold usually moves
inversely to the greenback.  “The expectation of a gradual introduction of quantitative
easing is leading to selling in the gold market on the belief
that gold had become overbought,” said  Mark O’Byrne , executive
director of brokerage GoldCore Ltd. in Dublin. “The short-term
trend appears to have changed after last week’s lower close.”  Estimates for the amount of Fed asset purchases range from
$1 trillion at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch to $2 trillion at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Economists at both firms agree the Fed
will likely start by announcing $500 billion after policy
makers’ Nov. 2-3 meeting.  The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling that most respondents expect a
decline. The green line shows the gold price. The data shown are
as of Oct. 22.  The weekly gold survey that started six years ago has
forecast prices accurately in 193 of 334 weeks, or 58 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results:  Bullish : 8  Bearish : 13  Neutral : 5  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 