-- Goldman Sachs, Apple Might Top This Wish List: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-10-28T21:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/goldman-sachs-apple-might-top-this-wish-list-william-pesek.html
Leave it to tiny Singapore to tell
us where the global economy is heading.  We used to look to the gargantuan U.S. economy for guidance
on financial trends. After Wall Street’s collapse, we turned to
the Group of 20 nations. More insight might be gleaned looking
at an island nation with 5 million people.  The idea that a place with no natural resources and a
state-capitalism model is a global bellwether will strike many
as absurd. Yet  Singapore Exchange Ltd. ’s attempted takeover of
Australia’s stock exchange shows how Asia’s money is changing
the face of finance and geopolitics as we know it.  Singapore Exchange’s A$8.1 billion ($7.9 billion) bid for
 ASX Ltd.  might not go through amid an outcry from Australian
lawmakers. It almost doesn’t matter. The point is that fast-
growing and cash-rich Asia is about to go shopping in ways that
might shock the biggest developed economies.  This transaction is full of chutzpah. Singapore’s stock
market is half the size of Australia’s and the deal looks
expensive. The real issue is ambition. Singapore is clearly
prepared to spend big to get economies of scale that don’t come
naturally. Expect more of this dynamic in Asia -- even from
smaller countries that get little attention globally.  How will the West respond when China, Japan and India go on
a mergers-and-acquisitions tear? And those are just Asia’s three
biggest economies. Executives from Seattle to London should also
expect more phone calls from acquisitive companies in South
Korea, Indonesia, Taiwan, Hong Kong and sovereign wealth fund
managers everywhere.  Next Wave  China has been scooping up energy assets around the globe,
and has $2.6 trillion of reserves to accelerate the campaign. It
seeks to leapfrog over the years needed to build domestic
corporate powerhouses. In today’s world, it’s easier to buy a
chunk of International Business Machines Corp. than create and
cultivate brands over time. As the yuan rises, tech leaders like
Nokia Oyj or Motorola Inc. become cheaper for mainland
executives. Why censor Google Inc. when you can just own it?  The next wave of globalization features developing nations
buying the crown jewels of developed ones, and it will be messy.
In 2005, the U.S. Congress freaked out when China’s CNOOC Ltd.
bid for oil company Unocal Corp. and scuttled the deal. Just
wait until China sets its sights on Boeing Co., Microsoft Corp.
or  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.   Goldman Envy  This last name has long been coveted in Asia. Government
officials in Tokyo and Seoul crave having globally known, savvy
and profitable financial leaders. That tends to be code for
having their own Goldman. Now, Asia could just buy the real
thing. Well, try to at least.  It’s hard to believe developed-market lawmakers would let
many household names fall easily into Asian hands. Creative
attempts would be made to explain why  Pacific Investment
Management Co.  being acquired by foreigners poses a national-
security threat. Or why Apple Inc. or cable news network CNN
must remain American concerns.  Never mind how these arguments might run afoul of  World
Trade Organization  rules. The next few years will see a
disorienting flurry of takeover bids from Brasilia to Beijing,
putting politicians in unprecedented positions. Nationalistic
tendencies will collide with globalization as never before.  Singapore helped prove the point that Asia has money at a
time when others don’t. Its investment firms in recent years
took stakes in Citigroup Inc., UBS AG, Barclays Plc and others,
shoring up some of capitalism’s biggest names. Bidding for
Australia’s  ASX  is the next logical step and a reminder that
Singapore’s long game is worth watching.  Bet on Gambling  Take casinos, which are suddenly the rage in conservative
Singapore. The government realized it had to let its hair down
to net more of the tourism dollars flowing elsewhere in Asia.
Welcoming casino-resorts run by Genting Singapore Plc and  Las
Vegas Sands Corp . was a gamble that is clearly working. So was
revamping downtown to host Formula One races. Tourist arrivals
are exploding, and other Asian capitals are racing to emulate
Singapore’s success.  Singapore is working to reinvent itself as a biotechnology
hub with reasonably liberal immigration laws to feed its
development. Its transparent financial system has been a magnet
for hedge funds setting up shop in Asia. The ASX bid is
recognition that Singapore can’t grow much beyond its domestic
market and must look outward.  Opportunities Abound  Asia wants to avoid Japan’s arrogant and ill-considered
purchases during the bubble years. Buying Rockefeller Center and
the Pebble Beach golf course didn’t work out so well for
investors. Officials and executives in Singapore, Beijing, New
Delhi and Seoul must avoid the temptation for such vanity deals.  Opportunities abound, though. Several governments are
sitting on hundreds of billions of reserves and companies are
hoarding cash. Add the desire to grow economies and corporate
balance sheets and you have a clear recipe for expansion -- and
a huge one as Asia floods markets with more equity than ever
amid booming demand for initial public offerings.  This shopping spree will shake up the global power balance
like rarely before. Perhaps nowhere is this huge shift more
apparent than in tiny Singapore.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  