-- Russia Selects 10 Banks for $59 Billion Asset Sales
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-10-28T20:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/goldman-merrill-among-advisers-on-59-billion-russian-privatization-plan.html
Russia selected Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Merrill Lynch and eight more advisers for a planned $59
billion of asset sales in the next five years.    Morgan Stanley , Credit Suisse AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Deutsche Bank AG  are also on the list, along with Moscow-based  Renaissance Capital , VTB Capital, VEB and Russian Auction House,
the government said in an order signed on Oct. 25 and posted
today on its website. UBS AG, Citigroup Inc. and  Barclays
Capital  are among the foreign banks who lost out, along with
local brokerage Troika Dialog.  “For those banks on the list, it can be a golden egg,”
said Peter Westin, chief strategist at Aton Capital in Moscow.  Russia plans to sell as much as 15 percent of OAO Rosneft,
its biggest oil producer, as the government seeks to raise 1.8
trillion rubles ($59 billion) in asset sales over five years to
help balance the budget. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s
government approved the plan to sell stakes in about 900
companies, including lenders OAO Sberbank and VTB Group, First
Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov said on October 21.  Shuvalov said yesterday the list of banks should be
enlarged. “We have 900 projects,” Shuvalov told reporters in
Moscow. “We need more banks.”  Nicholas Jordan, country head of UBS, said the Swiss bank
still hoped to work with the Russian government on
privatizations. “It’s my understanding there may be an
additional list and we would hope to be on it,” said Jordan by
phone.  First Deficit  The government will use some of the revenue to narrow its
deficit to 1.8 trillion rubles, or 3.6 percent of gross domestic
product, in 2011 from an estimated 5.3 percent this year.  Russia 
had a shortfall of 5.9 percent last year, its first deficit in a
decade, after the economy posted its biggest contraction on
record.  The government plans to reduce its holding in Sberbank,
Russia’s biggest lender, to a controlling stake between 2011 and
2014, Shuvalov said. It will “try to complete” the sale of a
10 percent stake in VTB Group, the second-biggest bank, this
year and may sell an additional 10 percent in 2011 and 10
percent to 15 percent in 2012, according to Shuvalov.  Russia needs banks that “understand the best time to put
assets on the market,” Alexei Uvarov, head of the Economic
Ministry’s property department, said on March 25. “We’re trying
to find new mechanisms of privatization that are less archaic
than before, with flexible market mechanisms.”  Russia raised 1 billion rubles from asset sales last year,
when liquidity was tight and there was no demand from investors,
Uvarov said. The economy contracted a record 7.9 percent as
global demand plummeted, the biggest drop on record.  Russia’s last major asset sale was in 2007, when VTB Group,
the country’s second-largest bank, raised $8 billion in the
biggest initial public offering that year. Oil producer OAO
Rosneft’s IPO a year earlier raised $10.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net  