-- Google to Clarify Ad Rules, Resolves French Probe into Mappling Service
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-28T12:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/google-settles-french-inquiry-of-map-service-complaint-update1-.html
Google Inc.  will clarify its global
policies for advertising in addition to settling with French
regulators to resolve mapping-service company Navx’s complaint
the Internet-search provider unfairly removed advertisements.  “The Competition Authority takes note of the willingness
of Google to improve the transparency and predictability for
advertisers beyond the individual case” of Navx, France’s
 antitrust agency  said in a statement. “It is an important step
toward a more transparent framework on a global level.”  The AdWords program runs clients’ ads next to related query
results. Navx offers travel information such as the location of
speed cameras and Wi-Fi service.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, during an Oct.
4 meeting with the regulator offered broad clarification and
improvement of its advertising policies for clients, the agency
said. The company is entangled in numerous regulatory disputes
related to online advertising and maps and facing probes over
unauthorized collection of Wi-Fi data in Germany, France and
Spain.  The settlement comes as French regulators are reviewing
competition in the on-line advertising market. Findings from
that process are expected before the end of the year.  “The modifications will be generalized for everyone around
the world,” said  Ron Soffer , a lawyer for Levallois-Perre,
France-based Navx, today. “The entire world will benefit.”  Restored Listing  The settlement covers the French traffic-device market.
Google, which was ordered to restore Navx’s listing in June,
also promised to specify what would disqualify an ad, detail the
scope of any removal, and improve notifications about its
AdWords policies and enforcement. The changes must take effect
by Jan. 1 and run through the end of 2013.  The regulator “recognized Google’s right to set clear
content policies that guarantee ads are appropriate,” Google
said in an e-mailed statement today. “In its decision to close
this case, the FCA made no finding of dominance or monopoly
abuse,” Google said, referring to the regulator.  Any indemnification of Navx for revenue lost while its ads
were suspended must come from a court ruling, the Competition
Authority said in its 24-page decision. Navx sued Google at
Paris’s Commercial Tribunal on Oct. 1 asking for 7 million euros
($9.7 million) in damages for its AdWords removal, Soffer said.  “Navx lost a substantial part of its income,” Soffer
said. “Up until the moment when the Competition Authority
ordered Navx reinstated, damages were substantial and that’s
what we’re seeking to repair.”  Google declined to comment on the lawsuit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 