-- Accounting Body Changes Rule to Close Structured-Product Reporting Anomaly
-- B y   S a r f r a z   T h i n d
-- 2010-10-28T14:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/iasb-amends-rule-to-close-structured-product-reporting-loophole.html
The  International Accounting
Standards Board  is amending the treatment of so-called own
credit risk on financial liabilities, closing a loophole that
banks have used to show bigger profits on structured debt.  Under current rules, banks book a fair-value gain on
securities including structured products even as credit spreads
widen and the lender is perceived to be more risky.  The new ruling is designed to “address the counter-
intuitive way a company in severe financial trouble can book a
large profit based on its theoretical ability to buy back its
own debt at a reduced cost,”  David Tweedie , chairman of the
IASB, said in a statement today.  Starting Jan. 1, 2013, banks will be required to report
fair-value adjustments on their debt in the “other
comprehensive income” section of income statements instead of
within the  profit and loss  account, the IASB said.  The own credit accounting convention is used mainly on
structured notes as an alternative to valuing the products’ debt
and derivatives components separately. While fair value losses
and gains are only realized if a bank buys back the debt, the
reporting method causes earnings volatility, the IASB said.  UBS AG  reported a 387 million-franc ($393 million) fair-
value loss on financial liabilities, consisting mainly of
“issued structured products,” the Zurich-based bank said in
its third-quarter earnings statement on Oct. 26. UBS reported a
fair-value gain of 595 million francs on similar liabilities in
the second quarter.  Structured notes are securities created by banks, which
package debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  