-- Icahn's Federal-Mogul Shares Tumble as Sales of Replacement Parts Decline
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2010-10-28T20:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/icahn-s-federal-mogul-drops-most-in-17-months-on-falling-auto-parts-sales.html
Federal-Mogul Corp. , the auto-parts
supplier controlled by billionaire  Carl Icahn , fell the most in
more than 17 months after reporting profit that trailed an
analyst’s estimate and a sales decline in its largest unit.  Federal-Mogul dropped $2.43, or 11 percent, to $19.30 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading , the biggest
drop since July 6.  The company said today that third-quarter profit excluding
some gains was 30 cents a share. That trailed the 33-cent
estimate of  Anthony Cristello , an analyst with BB&T Capital
Markets.  Net income  rose to $53 million, or 53 cents a share,
from $10 million, or 10 cents, a year earlier, Southfield,
Michigan-based Federal-Mogul said in a statement.  Revenue  from Federal-Mogul’s aftermarket unit, which sells
replacement parts including Wagner brake pads and Anco
windshield wiper blades, fell 3.4 percent to $573 million, hurt
by a 4 percent decline in North America, its largest market.
Total  sales  gained 12 percent to $1.54 billion as the company
gained market share in each of its operating regions.  “Auto suppliers have for the most part come in well ahead
of expectations, so when one misses, even marginally, it causes
a reaction, and in this case, an overreaction in share
movement,”  Brian Sponheimer , an analyst with Gabelli & Co.,
said in an interview. He said the “weakness” in Federal-
Mogul’s aftermarket results shouldn’t be a “long-term issue.”  Federal-Mogul’s replacement parts unit made up 44 percent
of its $5.3 billion in revenue last year, up from 38 percent of
sales in 2008. The company has been adding mid-tier brands to
offer cash-strapped customers lower-priced options.  Icahn controlled 76 percent of Federal-Mogul’s  shares  as of
July, leaving 24 percent for public trading. A smaller
percentage of shares available can make a stock more volatile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Clothier  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 