-- China's Stocks Fall on Inflation Concern After Posting Best Rally in World
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-29T07:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/icbc-sinopec-china-life-chalco-beiqi-foton-chinese-equities-preview.html
China’s stocks , the best performer
among global markets in October, fell today on the prospect the
government will intensify measures to curb inflation and
property speculation. The losses narrowed the biggest monthly
gain since July 2009 for the Shanghai Composite Index.  China Vanke Co. , the nation’s biggest developer, and
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China, the largest lender,
dropped at least 1.6 percent after the banking regulator asked
lenders to guard against risks from property loans and the China
Securities Journal reported banks had cut discounts on mortgage
rates.  Bank of Communications Co.  slid to a two-week low after
reporting profit that trailed analyst estimates. Citic
Securities Co. led brokerages lower on concern the rally this
month was excessive given the outlook for earnings.  “Inflation is a persistent concern and there’s market talk
that the October inflation number will be at a higher level,”
said  Wang Zheng , chief investment officer at Jingxi Investment
Management Co. in Shanghai. “The rally for big-caps is probably
coming to an end now as valuations are full after a 40 percent
to 50 percent jump in less than a month.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, retreated for a fourth day, losing
13.74, or 0.5 percent, to 2,978.84 at the 3 p.m. close. Today’s
losses pared gains for the month to 12 percent, the most among
the 88 global indexes tracked by Bloomberg. The  CSI 300 Index 
fell 0.5 percent to 3,379.98 today.  Chinese stocks have surged on expectation central banks
around the world will inject more cash into their economies to
boost growth. The Shanghai gauge is still down 9.1 percent this
year after the government raised bank reserve requirements and
curbed lending growth to avert asset bubbles.  Rate Outlook  Property stocks fell the most in the Shanghai Composite
today, with its benchmark measure losing 2 percent. Vanke
dropped 1.6 percent to 9.70 yuan.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. ,
the second largest, slid 4.9 percent to 14.26 yuan. Gemdale
Corp., the fourth largest, dropped 2.7 percent to 6.84 yuan.  Jingxi Investment’s Wang said consumer prices will probably
rise by 3.8 percent in October. Inflation accelerated to 3.6
percent last month, the fastest pace in almost two years. The
government’s full-year target for inflation is 3 percent.  China’s rate increase on Oct. 19, the first since 2007, has
done little to damp the outlook for inflation and growth in the
economy, judging from the widening premium investors demand to
hold 10-year bonds. The difference between yields on benchmark
debt due in 2012 and notes maturing in 2020 grew 7 basis points
in October to 129 after reaching a five-month high of 131 this
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation Risk  Preventing inflation should be made the government’s top
priority,  Yi Xianrong , a researcher with the Institute of
Finance and Banking under the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences,
wrote in a commentary published in today’s China Daily newspaper.  Credit expansion has continued this year on “a large
scale,” fueling excess liquidity, Yi wrote. That’s led to
increases in property prices and will “inevitably” also fuel
gains in consumer prices, Yi wrote.  “The tightening pressure hasn’t faded,” said  Zhang Kun , a
strategist at Guotai Junan Securities Co. in Shanghai, the
nation’s second-biggest brokerage. “With looming inflation and
high property prices, the government will follow up with
measures such as raising interest rates. The rally will probably
pause at this level.”  Banks Decline  ICBC slid 2.2 percent to 4.36 yuan. BoCom, part-owned by
HSBC Holdings Plc, dropped 3.3 percent to 6.17 yuan, the lowest
since Oct. 12. Its net income climbed to 9.18 billion yuan
($1.38 billion) from a restated 7.39 billion yuan a year earlier.
That fell short of the 9.5 billion yuan median estimate of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chinese banks need to “closely monitor” risks in property
loans,  Liu Mingkang , chairman of the China Banking Regulatory
Commission said in a statement posted on the regulator’s website
yesterday. Banks need to better manage liquidity risk and loans
to local government financing vehicles, the statement said.  With this month’s surge for Chinese stocks, the market
values on the Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges reached $3.79
trillion yesterday, surpassing Japan to be the world’s second-
biggest stock market, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Coal producers led the rally this month, with Yanzhou Coal
Mining Co. gaining 60 percent as it reported a tripling in
third-quarter profit from a year earlier. Citic, the nation’s
largest brokerage by market value, has surged 46 percent this
month on speculation the stock-market rally will drive trading
income. It slid 4.9 percent to 15.51 yuan today, its biggest
decline since June 29. Haitong Securities Co. retreated 4.5
percent to 12.44 yuan.  Bull Market  China has just entered the middle stage of a bull market,
according to UBS AG. Small- and medium-sized stocks may
outperform the market,  John Tang , Hong Kong-based strategist at
UBS, wrote in a report.  The brokerage raised its recommendation on the insurance
industry to “overweight” from “neutral” and the non-ferrous
metal industry to “neutral” from “underweight,” according to
the report. It cut the rating on consumer staples to “neutral”
from “overweight.”  China’s mutual funds boosted their equity allocations in
the third quarter to above 80 percent, a so-called bull-market
level, Shanghai-based Howbuy said.  Average stock weightings of 342 funds in China reached
81.17 percent during the three months, according to a report by
Howbuy, which didn’t provide comparative figures.  Invest Overseas  Hartford Financial’s  Robert Froehlich  said U.S. investors
should invest overseas as a hedge against higher taxes after
November congressional elections and increase their allocations
in Chinese and Singaporean stocks.  China is attractive because of “strong local consumer
demand,” Froehlich, senior managing director at Connecticut-
based Hartford Financial, which oversees $352 billion, said in
e-mailed comments. “In addition business investment also
remains strong. Good consumption along with good business
investment will bode well for the economy and the market.”  -- Zhang Shidong . With assistance from Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai.
Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  