-- ICBC Posts 27% Profit Gain, Plans Stake Purchase in Axa Unit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-28T16:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/icbc-third-quarter-profit-climbs-27-on-increased-credit-demand-in-china.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. , the world’s largest lender by market value, posted a
27 percent gain in third-quarter profit and agreed to acquire
control of Axa SA’s local unit to add non-banking revenue.  Net income climbed to 42.6 billion yuan ($6.4 billion) from
33.6 billion yuan a year earlier, the Beijing-based company said
in a statement yesterday. The lender will invest 1.2 billion
yuan for a 60 percent  stake  in Axa’s insurance venture with
China Minmetals Corp., President  Yang Kaisheng  said at a press
conference in Beijing.  The  profit  growth, driven by a 14.7 percent increase in
lending in the first nine months of 2010, may help cement ICBC’s
position as the world’s most profitable bank for a third year.
The lender is branching into insurance to reduce dependence on
 loans  amid government efforts to curb credit growth and contain
defaults after record lending in 2009.  “Chinese banks have been reporting sound earnings in the
past two years and the trend may be sustained in the near
future,” said  May Yan , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Barclays
Capital. Still, “the market is preoccupied with concerns of
loan quality and overhang of regulatory requirements: that also
explains why they need to look for other avenues of growth.”  Shares of ICBC have dropped 3 percent in Hong Kong this
year, underperforming the 6 percent advance in the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index . The stock gained 0.7 percent to close at
HK$6.24 yesterday, before the earnings announcement.  Banks’ Profits  ICBC’s quarterly profit was in line with the 42.8 billion
yuan median  estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Smaller rival Bank of Communications Ltd. yesterday posted
a 24 percent gain in third-quarter  profit  to 9.18 billion yuan.
That compared with the 9.5 billion yuan median  estimate  of seven
analysts. Bank of China Ltd. and Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.
on Oct. 27 reported almost 30 percent earnings growth, trumping
estimates, as lending expanded 13 percent.  The banks’ profit growth may slow as the government and
central bank take steps to curb accelerating inflation and
prevent  asset bubbles  in the nation. China’s central bank raised
interest rates last week and boosted reserve requirements at the
biggest lenders two weeks ago after the  economy  grew 9.6 percent
in the third quarter.  The banking regulator may also require the nation’s most
important lenders to boost their capital adequacy ratio to as
high as 15 percent by the end of 2012, and to maintain loan-loss
reserves equivalent to at least 2.5 percent of total lending by
then, a person with knowledge of the matter said last month.  ‘Default Risks’  “China banks will face greater pressure from policies on
capital supplement, risk coverage, extraction of counter-
cyclical capital and excess capital,” Nomura International Hong
Kong Ltd. analysts led by  Lucy Feng  wrote in an Oct. 22 note.
“Banks will have to cope with the greater potential default
risks that can follow on from rapid loan growth.”  ICBC plans to provide distribution, sales network and risk
management capabilities to the insurance venture, in which
Paris-based Axa, Europe’s second-biggest insurer, will own a
27.5 percent stake and China Minmetals will hold 12.5 percent.
The premium income for Axa-Minmetals, set up in 1999, rose 56
percent in the first eight months of the year.  The Chinese bank also plans to  raise  as much as 45 billion
yuan from a rights offer in Shanghai and Hong Kong this year.
The bank last month sold 25 billion yuan of convertible bonds,
lifting its capital adequacy ratio to 11.57 percent as of Sept.
30 from 11.34 percent in June.  Fee Income  Net interest income, or revenue from lending minus interest
payments on deposits, climbed 26 percent to 78.4 billion yuan in
the third quarter as the  profit margin  on loans expanded, ICBC
said. Net fee and commission income from products and services
such as credit cards, wealth management and insurance
sales rose 33 percent to 17.7 billion yuan.  ICBC set aside 8.24 billion yuan against potential soured
debt in the past three months, compared with 4.41 billion yuan a
year earlier. The lender’s bad loans declined to 75.7 billion
yuan by September, accounting for 1.15 percent of  total advances .  ICBC may earn $23.9 billion this year, compared with $16.5
billion at JPMorgan Chase & Co., according to the average
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  -- Luo Jun , with assistance from  Eva Woo  and  Zhang Dingmin  in
Beijing, and  Helen Yuan  in Shanghai. Editors:  Chitra Somayaji ,
 Russell Ward   To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  