-- Microsoft Woos Toyota, Duels Amazon.com in Cloud Bet
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2010-10-28T21:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/microsoft-woos-toyota-duels-amazon-in-10-billion-cloud-bet.html
Five years after unveiling a plan to
shift into cloud computing,  Microsoft Corp.  may finally be
making headway.  Microsoft’s then-Chief Technology Officer  Ray Ozzie  penned
a  memo  in October 2005, saying the company was at risk if it
didn’t reinvent itself as a provider of software and computing
services over the Web.  Heeding the warning, Microsoft has signed up customers
including  Toyota Motor Corp. ,  3M Co.  and  Lockheed Martin Corp. 
for its cloud product. By March, 90 percent of the company’s
engineers will be working on cloud-related products, says Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer . And the server unit may
generate $10 billion in annual revenue from cloud services in a
decade, says Microsoft  President   Bob Muglia .  “We will see those numbers and more,” Muglia said in an
interview.  Developers are learning more about the cloud strategy at a
conference today at the company’s headquarters in Redmond,
Washington, where Microsoft is highlighting tools that make it
easier to move applications to the cloud. In a report due after
the market closes today, Microsoft will say net income rose 34
percent last quarter to $4.8 billion, or 55 cents a share, as
sales gained 22 percent, according to  analysts’ predictions .  Trailing Amazon  Further progress in cloud computing will hinge on whether
Microsoft can narrow Amazon.com Inc.’s lead. Microsoft in
November released its flagship cloud product, Azure, which
stores and runs customers’ programs in its own server farms.  That came three years after market leader Amazon introduced
a suite of cloud services that let companies rent, rather than
buy, servers -- the powerful machines that run networks and
handle complex computing tasks.  Still, Microsoft ranks high in surveys asking chief
information officers which cloud vendors they plan to use, said
 Sarah Friar , a software analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “What Microsoft is doing well from a cloud perspective is
they are enterprise class and understand what it means to both
sell to large enterprise but also meet all their requirements,”
said Friar, who is based in San Francisco.  The approach won over Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota. The
automaker is using  Azure  to track the 2,000 calls daily that
come into the Lexus roadside and crash assistance service. The
program took days to implement, compared with weeks for an
internal database, said Glen Matejka, a Toyota manager.  3M Cut Costs  3M, whose products range from Post-It notes to flu tests,
uses Azure to host a new program, called  Visual Attention
Service , that lets website designers assess which parts of a
site catch the human eye.  3M , based in St. Paul, Minnesota, halved costs by
entrusting the program to Microsoft’s machines instead of its
own, said Jim Graham,  technical lead  for the program.  Cloud computing can make it affordable for companies to
tackle projects that previously would have required purchasing
and maintaining tens of thousands of servers.  “Look at the so-called quants on Wall Street,” said
Microsoft  General Manager   Bill Hilf . “They say, ‘I want to ask
a question, but it’s going to take me 20,000 servers to
answer.” Each time that happens, banks don’t want to build a
new server farm. They want to just access those machines as
needed.  ‘Hedging Our Bets’  Getting customers on board wasn’t easy. During Microsoft’s
mid-year reviews, a series of meetings in hotel ballrooms near
Microsoft’s  campus  early this year, executives got a sobering
message from sales staff, Muglia said. Customers weren’t
convinced Microsoft took its cloud push seriously, Muglia said.  “When we talked about choice, what they heard was we were
hedging our bets,” he said.  Microsoft  sales chief   Kevin Turner  decided that the pitch
needed to change. Rather than discussing various options,
Microsoft’s sales force has altered its pitch to “lead with the
cloud” and now focuses customer meetings on cloud technologies,
Muglia said.  “These are powerful new platforms that are creating a wave
of new opportunity,” Ballmer said at Microsoft’s developer
conference today.  Microsoft’s biggest challenge in cloud computing may come
from Seattle-based  Amazon . The online-commerce provider
generates about $500 million in sales from cloud services, more
than five times Microsoft’s cloud-related revenue, according to
Friar.  Amazon’s Goal  Amazon  CEO  Jeff Bezos  has said Amazon Web Services, which
includes the company’s cloud services, will eventually be as
large as its electronic-commerce business, which makes up 97
percent of sales. Neither Amazon nor Microsoft discloses cloud-
related revenue.  Microsoft rose 23 cents to $26.28 at 4 p.m. New York time
on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Among small and medium-sized businesses, 77 percent 
surveyed by Goldman Sachs said they used Amazon, compared with
10 percent for Microsoft and 17 percent apiece for  Google Inc. 
and  Salesforce.com Inc.  Larger businesses reported 12 percent
use for Microsoft, compared with 18 percent for Salesforce and
11 percent for Google. Amazon wasn’t included in that survey.  Amazon isn’t encountering a lot of competition when it bids
for customers, said Adam Selipsky, an Amazon vice president.  “We’re really not being told by customers or prospects
about material adoption of broad cloud offerings that are
currently out there from other vendors,” he said.  IBM’s Role  International Business Machines Corp.  started offering
cloud programs in March that let businesses develop and store
programs in IBM data centers.  VMware Inc., a software maker, has an edge over Microsoft
in so-called private clouds, which store programs in a company’s
own servers, Friar said. And Google and Salesforce have some
high-end features Azure lacks, according to David Smith, an
 analyst  at Gartner Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut.  Selling software as a service may also squeeze Microsoft’s
 profit margins  because it entails additional costs of operating
data centers to run customer programs, Friar says.  Still, the company should be able to generate more revenue
from cloud products than for its regular software, Muglia said.  Cloud products, which are sold as a subscription, may help
Microsoft get more customers on multiyear agreements. Those make
revenue flow more predictably and lessen reliance on the
vagaries of product cycles and computer upgrades, Smith said.  Catching Up?  Microsoft may not lag behind rivals long,  Goldman Sachs 
research suggests. When the firm’s analysts asked companies
about the future, 29 percent listed Microsoft in their cloud
purchasing plans. IBM came in second, with 25 percent,
Salesforce racked up 24 percent and Google garnered 20 percent.
Amazon trailed, with 8 percent.  Muglia likens the advent of cloud computing to the shift
away from mainframes toward personal computers and servers. He
says he doesn’t want to see Microsoft consigned to a role as
leader in a has-been technology, citing IBM.  “The threat is that we become like IBM is on the
mainframe,” Muglia said. “People still use mainframes an awful
lot, but it’s not where the future lies. I just have no interest
in running the Microsoft mainframe business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 