-- Tiger Asia Receives SEC Subpoena After Hong Kong Probe
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2010-10-28T04:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/tiger-asia-management-gets-sec-subpoena-after-hong-kong-securities-probe.html
Tiger Asia Management LLC, the New
York-based hedge-fund firm led by  Bill Hwang , received a
subpoena from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
following allegations of insider trading from Hong Kong’s
securities regulator.  The SEC has requested trading records and other documents,
Tiger Asia told investors in a letter dated Oct. 12. The firm
said it assumes the subpoena was prompted by the probe in Hong
Kong, according to the letter, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The Hong Kong  Securities and Futures Commission  in August
of last year applied for a High Court injunction to freeze some
Tiger Asia assets, saying the firm had engaged in insider
dealing and market manipulation involving  China Construction
Bank Corp.  shares. In April, the Hong Kong regulator sought to
ban Tiger Asia from trading there, the first time it appealed to
a court for such a prohibition.  Hedge funds have come under scrutiny by regulators
worldwide after the global financial crisis. New York-based
Galleon Group co-founder Raj Rajaratnam was arrested in October
2009 and charged with securities fraud in the biggest insider-
trading prosecution in history. A former hedge-fund trader at
London-based AKO Capital LLP was charged by the U.K. financial
regulator with insider trading in April.  “Since the crisis, we’ve seen regulators increasing the
scope and intensity of investigations and enforcement, and also
signs of increased cooperation with overseas regulators, such as
the SEC,” said  James Wadham , a Hong Kong-based litigation
partner at Clifford Chance LLP. “This is a trend that we expect
to continue across Asia.”  Trading Not Affected  Tiger Asia told clients it’s cooperating with the SEC. The
firm denies any wrongdoing and continues to fight the injunction
sought by the Hong Kong regulator, according to the letter. Its
trading in Hong Kong isn’t affected, the firm wrote.  Shawn Pattison , a spokesman for the hedge fund, declined to
comment, as did  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC in
Washington.  Hong Kong-based SFC spokesman Jonathan Li declined to say
whether the regulator’s investigation into Tiger Asia continues.
Two legal actions by the SFC against the fund, for a freeze of
their assets and to ban them from trading in Hong Kong, are
ongoing, Li said. He declined to comment on the extent of the
SFC’s cooperation with the U.S. regulator.  Tiger Cub  Tiger Asia managed $3 billion in assets as of Sept. 30,
down more than $1 billion from a year ago, said an investor with
the firm, who declined to be identified because the information
is private. The fund lost 7.4 percent in the third quarter and
declined 0.8 percent this year through September, according to
the letter.  Tiger Asia is one of the so-called Tiger cubs, a group of
hedge-fund managers that received backing from  Julian Robertson .
The investor founded Tiger Management LLC in 1980 and built it
into one of the world’s largest hedge-fund managers in the late
1990s before returning clients’ money in 2000.  The firm has returned an average annual gain of 15 percent
since inception in 2001, said a person briefed on the results
who asked not to be identified. Its best year was 2006, when it
returned 66 percent, while its worst was 2008, when it lost
about 16 percent. Last year, the fund gained 2 percent, compared
with the 59 percent return of the  Hang Seng Composite Index .  The firm said in the letter that it’s making it easier for
clients to withdraw their money, allowing quarterly redemptions
without a limit starting Jan. 1, 2011.  Hong Kong Allegations  Tiger Asia employs 25 people, all based in New York, and
including 10 analysts focused on Korea, China and Japan, one of
the investors said.  The fund’s losses in the third quarter resulted from bets
against Chinese securities, Tiger Asia told clients, with most
of the losses being incurred in September, when the Hang Seng
surged about 10 percent.  Hong Kong’s securities regulator in August 2009 applied for
a High Court injunction to freeze as much as HK$29.9 million
($3.85 million) in assets of Tiger Asia, Hwang and two other
Tiger Asia officers,  Raymond Park  and  William Tomita . That
amount is equivalent to the gains they made from trading shares
of China Construction Bank just before Bank of America Corp.
announced the sale of $2.8 billion worth of shares in the
Chinese company, the SFC said.  In April, the regulator sought to ban Tiger Asia from
trading securities and derivatives listed in Hong Kong over
fresh allegations of insider trading. It also asked the court to
freeze as much as HK$8.6 million in additional Tiger Asia assets.  Confidentiality Agreements  “Regulators everywhere are under political pressure to
show teeth and a high-ish profile case is helpful,” said  Peter Douglas , the principal of Singapore-based GFIA Pte, which
advises investors seeking to allocate money to hedge funds and
runs a wealth-management business. “A lot of the blame for the
global financial crisis is being pointed at the financial
services industry.”  In its latest application, the SFC said Tiger Asia received
advance notice and was invited to participate in placements of
Bank of China Ltd. shares by UBS AG on Dec. 31, 2008, and by
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc on Jan. 13, 2009.  The hedge-fund manager was given details of the placements
under confidentiality agreements and consented not to deal in
the shares of Bank of China, the Hong Kong regulator says. It
then proceeded to short-sell 104 million Bank of China shares
before the UBS placement, grossing HK$8.6 million of profit, the
SFC said.  Shorting involves selling borrowed shares in a company in
expectation of buying them back at a lower price later.  Chinese Banks  The SFC said Tiger Asia also sold 256 million of the
Chinese bank’s shares before the RBS placement, losing about
HK$10 million on the trade. Both trades represented illegal
insider trading, according to the Hong Kong regulator.  The new allegations would be heard by the court in the same
proceedings that will consider the regulator’s allegations
involving Construction Bank shares. A court date had not been
set, according to the April 26 statement.  In both applications, the SFC is seeking to unwind the
allegedly illegal trades and restore Tiger Asia’s counterparties
to their previous holdings, the statements said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gillian Wee  in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 