-- IMF Urges Asian Currency Appreciation to Ease Tensions Among G-20 Nations
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2010-10-28T16:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/imf-urges-asian-currency-appreciation-to-ease-tensions-among-g-20-nations.html
Decisions by China and some other
Asian emerging economies to limit currency appreciation is
contributing to “significant exchange-rate misalignments” and
to tensions across the Group of 20, the International Monetary
Fund said in a note to finance officials.  The IMF, which called the yuan “substantially
undervalued” and the dollar “on the strong side of
fundamentals,” urged developing nations with current-account
surpluses to let exchange rate appreciation begin “in
earnest.” At the same time, it said advanced economies must
repair their financial systems and plan to curb budget deficits
in 2011 to help shift the sources of global demand.  “Many emerging economies are faced with a difficult policy
challenge of managing large capital inflows,” the IMF said in
 the note  prepared for the Oct. 21-23 meeting of G-20 finance
ministers in Gyeongju, South Korea, and released today. Such
flows “should help external rebalancing, but much depends on
how they are put to use and -- perhaps more importantly -- the
extent to which they are accompanied by exchange-rate
appreciation.”  While the G-20 vowed to soothe trade tensions in the $4
trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market, finance chiefs from
South Korea to South Africa have already signaled they may act
to slow gains in their currencies. The concern of emerging
market officials is that failure to counter the gains will curb
exports and economic strength.  South Africa  At the same time, the agency warned that exchange rates in
some emerging countries, including South Africa and some Latin
American nations, are “looking increasingly overvalued” after
the nations allowed their currencies “to appreciate
substantially in nominal effective terms.”  The Colombian peso has gained almost 10 percent against the
dollar in the past year, while the South African rand has jumped
more than 12 percent.  The response to the increase of capital flows to emerging
economies has to depend on countries’ circumstances, the IMF
said, recommending against accumulating reserves as a response
if the flows are deemed to be permanent.  For countries such as Brazil and India, where reserves are
“adequate” and the exchange rate flexible, fiscal tightening
will help, the IMF said. For South Korea, Indonesia and other
Asian nations where the exchange rate is not overvalued, “the
best first line of defense” is “a freely floating exchange
rate” it said.  Federal Reserve  Emerging nations’ exchange rates have risen as investors
bet the Federal Reserve next week will launch a program of
large-scale asset purchases to boost the economy. Expectations
for renewed monetary easing have helped drive the dollar down
more than 7 percent against the currencies of six major trading
partners since August, according to IntercontinentalExchange
Inc.’s Dollar Index.  While advanced economies should keep an accommodative
monetary policy, including an expansion of central banks’
balance sheets, they need to be “mindful of the impact of such
action on other economies, notably though large and volatile
flows,” the IMF said.  “A non-cooperative policy scenario involving firm
resistance to currency appreciation in emerging surplus
economies and the lack of expeditious repair and reform of the
financial sector in major advanced economies, could be
damaging,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  