-- IMF Staff Urges Australia's Central Bank to Raise Rates to Cool Inflation
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-10-28T13:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/imf-staff-urges-australia-s-central-bank-to-raise-rates-to-cool-inflation.html
The Reserve Bank of Australia will
need to boost interest rates to cool inflation should the
nation’s recovery proceed and risks to the global outlook
dissipate, International Monetary Fund staff said in a report.  “The RBA agreed that if the downside risks to the outlook
diminished and further inflation pressures emerged, the policy
rate would need to be raised,” IMF staff said as part of an
annual consultation, called an Article IV review.  Australia’s  economy  is strengthening as demand from China
for iron ore and energy spurs companies such as  Chevron Corp.  to
expand projects. Central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  earlier
this month left the overnight cash rate target unchanged for a
fifth straight meeting, saying the decision was “finely
balanced” with the case for a rate increase. The RBA’s next
policy announcement is scheduled for Nov. 2.  “With inflation projected to remain close to the top of
the 2-3 percent target band, the RBA needs to guard against
inflation expectations becoming anchored at too high a level,”
the IMF staff report said.  Australia is undergoing a hiring boom as companies such as
 BHP Billiton Ltd.  and Rio Tinto Group increase shipments of iron
ore and coal to China. The country’s growth relative to weaker
expansions in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere helped drive the
local currency to parity with the U.S. dollar on Oct. 15 for the
first time since 1983.  Currency ‘Overvalued’  The IMF staff estimated the Australian dollar is “mildly
overvalued” by 5 percent to 15 percent in the medium term,
while adding that the increase is likely to be temporary and may
dissipate with more normal interest rates in the U.S. and other
advanced economies.  The U.S. Federal Reserve has kept its benchmark interest-
rate near zero since December 2008 and announces its next policy
move the day after the RBA’s decision next week.  The Australian dollar dropped 1.4 percent on Oct. 27 after
a report showed consumer prices rose less than forecast last
quarter and the central bank’s measures of core inflation showed
annual price increases also eased.  The consumer price index rose 0.7 percent from the second
quarter, the Bureau of Statistics said Oct. 27. Prices gained
2.8 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier.  A  Credit Suisse AG  index based on swaps trading yesterday
showed there was a 22 percent chance that Stevens would increase
borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point to 4.75 percent
next week compared with 52 percent on Oct. 25.  Mining Boom  The IMF staff report said that while the mining boom is
expected to be “long lived,” it brings vulnerabilities that
policy will need to respond to.  “Facilitating a shift of resources to the mining sector
without giving rise to inflationary pressures presents a key
challenge,” the IMF staff said. “Growing dependence on mining
may amplify the business cycle as the economy will be more
vulnerable to swings in commodity demand and make government
revenue more volatile.”  IMF staff said Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s plan to
introduce a mineral resource rent tax in Australia is a “step
in the right direction.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Canberra at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  