-- IMF Calls for Kazakh Currency Flexibility When Banks Recover From Crisis
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2010-10-28T09:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/imf-calls-for-kazakh-currency-flexibility-when-banks-recover-from-crisis.html
Kazakhstan should move toward a more
flexible exchange rate for its currency, the tenge, when the
former Soviet republic’s banks recover from the economic crisis,
the International Monetary Fund said.  “Considerable flexibility of the tenge exchange rate is
something that would need to come when the banks are in good
shape and better able to cope with that,”  David Owen , deputy
director of the IMF’s Middle East and Central Asia department,
said in an interview in Almaty today.  Kazakhstan introduced an exchange-rate corridor for the
tenge after devaluing the currency by a fifth in February 2009.
The country’s worst financial crisis in more than a decade
forced the government to seize control of BTA Bank, then its
biggest lender, and spend $10 billion from National Oil Fund to
prop up the economy.  The tenge has traded between 148.2 and 146.4 per dollar
since Feb. 5, when the central bank broadened the currency
corridor to a band between 127.50 and 165 per dollar. It traded
at 147.6 per dollar today.  “The policy that the central bank has of keeping the rate
pretty stable at that level is right, particularly given the
vulnerability in the banking system and households balance
sheets,” Owen said. “Stability of the exchange rate is
important at the moment and seems to be the strategy that’s
working well for the economy.”  ‘Abolish the Corridor’  Kazakhstan, the biggest energy producer in central Asia,
may allow a managed float of the tenge after March 2011, central
bank Chairman  Grigori Marchenko  said on Oct. 21.  “We could abolish the corridor and move back to a managed
float system,” Marchenko said. “The corridor was important in
order to anchor expectations that the exchange rate would be
relatively stable after the devaluation. We believe that these
expectations are firmly anchored; the tenge has been extremely
stable.”  The high and increasing level of nonperforming loans in
Kazakhstan, which now account for 26 percent of banks’ total
loans, is unlikely to fall rapidly even amid an economic
recovery, the IMF said in a report distributed to reporters in
Almaty today. If the issue isn’t addressed, additional budget
obligations may occur, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nariman Gizitdinov  in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  