-- Hindustan Copper to  Start Share Sale Early December, Chairman Ahmed Says
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2010-10-28T07:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/hindustan-copper-to-start-share-sale-early-december-chairman-ahmed-says.html
Hindustan Copper Ltd. , India’s
monopoly miner of the ore, may start marketing its planned
public offer by the middle of next month and may sell shares by
early December, Chairman  Shakeel Ahmed  said.  The pricing will be decided by a group of ministers in
November,  Ahmed  said today in an interview in Mumbai. The stock
doesn’t accurately reflect the value of the company as only a
small number of shares are available, he said, without
specifying the amount expected to be raised. The sale may fetch
as much as 40 billion rupees ($899 million), he had said in June.  Hindustan Copper will follow the share sale in Coal India
Ltd., which attracted 15 times the stock on offer this week and
boosted the asset sale program of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh .
The government is seeking to raise 400 billion rupees from seven
planned stock sales by March to rein in the budget deficit.  Hindustan Copper and the Indian government will each sell
10 percent, or 92.5 million shares, according to a statement on
Sept. 27. Institutional buyers may bid for as much as half the
shares on offer, which will be conducted through a book-building
process. UBS Securities India Private Ltd., ICICI Securities
Ltd., Enam Securities Private Ltd., Kotak Mahindra Capital Co.
and SBI Capital Markets Ltd. will manage the sale.  Hindustan Copper’s shares rose as much as 4.5 percent to
460 rupees today in Mumbai and traded at 444.25 rupees as of
12:33 p.m. local time. The benchmark Sensitive Index added 0.2
percent.  Enhance Profitability  The company  expects to improve its profitability this
fiscal year as copper prices gain on the London Metal Exchange
and it earns an estimated 60 billion rupees selling waste rock.
Copper may rise as much as 16 percent to an average $8,100 a
metric ton in the six months ending March 31, mainly on demand
from China and India, Ahmed said.  “Demand has been rising and a supply constraint will push
up copper prices,” he said.  Hindustan Copper  net income in the second quarter ended
Sept. 30 quadrupled to 562.1 million rupees on higher copper
prices and a renewed focus on mining, Ahmed said.  The company is planning to start excavating zinc, nickel
and gold apart from augmenting copper ore supplies by expanding
existing reserves and restarting closed mines in India.  India’s cabinet in June approved stake sales in Coal India
and  Hindustan Copper  as part of the asset-sale program.  Coal India’s shares will be sold at 245 rupees each, Coal
Minister  Sriprakash Jaiswal  said on Oct. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ; 