-- IPad Demand May Spur `Panel King' TPK to Double After Initial Share Sale
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2010-10-28T17:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/ipad-demand-may-spur-panel-king-tpk-shares-to-double-after-ipo.html
TPK Holding Co. ’s stock may double
within 12 months after trading begins on the Taiwan Stock
Exchange today, driven by rising demand for  Apple Inc. ’s iPad
and iPhone, according to analyst estimates.  TPK, the largest supplier of touch-panels, priced its
initial public offering of shares at NT$220 each on Oct. 22. The
stock may rise to NT$512, according to the median of estimates
from  SinoPac Financial Holdings Co. , CLSA Asia Pacific Markets
and four other brokers surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Freddie Liu ,
the Taipei-based company’s chief financial officer, declined to
comment on the estimates.  TPK, which says it gets 70 percent of its sales from Apple,
plans to use the NT$6.2 billion ($201 million) raised to more
than double capacity for making iPad panels. Shares of  Wintek
Corp. , TPK’s nearest rival, have climbed 84 percent this year
after surging more than fourfold last year.  “TPK really is the ‘Touch Panel King,’ and it will be hard
for others to catch up in the short term,” said  Calvin Shao ,
who rates the stock “buy” at  SinoPac Securities Co.  “Touch
panels have the greatest momentum in the technology industry and
TPK has the best technology.”  The company says its projective-capacitive touch
technology, which it invented, is quicker and more accurate than
the alternatives, according to its  website . TPK was originally
an acronym for touch, point-of-sale and kiosks, said Liu,
referring to what were once its products’ major uses.  First iPhone  Work with Apple to develop touch-panel screens began in
2004, culminating with the release of the iPhone three years
later, said Chairman Michael Chiang, who was in the audience
when Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  unveiled his
company’s smartphone in January 2007.  “People say that without TPK, there’d be no iPhone; in
fact, without the iPhone, TPK wouldn’t be here today,” Chiang
said at a press briefing in Taipei yesterday. “Initial
development took nearly three years and a lot of effort.”  Jill Tan , a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Apple, declined
to comment.  TPK will spend as much as $70 million to expand capacity
for the 10-inch touch screens used in the iPad to 3 million
units per month by June, from 1.2 million now, Liu said. It will
increase monthly capacity for the 3.5-inch screens used in
iPhones to 10 million from 7 million, he said.  The company will also use the IPO proceeds to pay debt, Liu
said.  iPad Growth  Apple sold 7.5 million iPads in the financial year ending
Sept. 25, with that figure to triple to 23.9 million next year,
according to estimates from  William Fearnley Jr , an analyst at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC. IPhone shipments may climb 34
percent to 53.4 million units, he wrote in an Oct. 19 report.  “TPK has dominated the market in recent years, but
competition is increasing,” said  Eric Kao , an analyst at  KGI
Securities Co.  in Taipei, who doesn’t have a rating on the
stock.  Kao said TPK will supply about 50 percent of iPhone touch
panels this year, with Wintek and  Chimei Innolux Corp.  supplying
the rest. Those two companies and  Samsung Electronics Co.  may
take market share from TPK as they develop their own
technologies, he said.  TPK’s sales for the first nine months of 2010 more than
doubled from a year earlier to NT$13.4 billion, with net income
climbing 67 percent to NT$2.6 billion, the company said in a
statement yesterday.  Earnings per share this year may be NT$20, increasing to
NT$30 next year, according to the median estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. That puts the median price
estimate at 17.1 times estimated 2011 earnings, compared with
the 12-times estimate for  Wintek , according to Bloomberg data.  “TPK is in a great position to defend its relationship
with Apple and benefit from Apple’s steady stream of electronics
products,” said SinoPac’s Shao. “Because of their market
share, TPK’s stock price deserves the price premium.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 