-- Ireland Default Swaps Soar on Anglo Bond Investor Standoff: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2010-10-28T14:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/ireland-debt-default-swaps-advance-on-anglo-bond-standoff-credit-markets.html
The cost of insuring against a
default on Ireland’s debt surged to the highest in a month as
 Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  note holders headed for a showdown with
the nation’s government.  Creditors holding a “blocking position” of Anglo Irish
subordinated bonds plan to oppose a debt exchange worth 20
percent of their 1.6 billion euros ($2.2 billion) of securities,
adviser Houlihan Lokey said in a statement today. The government
has said it will legislate to allow it to impose penalties on
subordinated creditors while making senior investors whole,
while the bank’s chairman,  Alan Dukes , said today he won’t
negotiate with junior bondholders opposing the exchange.  “Bondholders are gambling the government is willing to pay
up and doesn’t want to use the draft legislation to impose
losses,” said  Brian Barry , an analyst at Evolution Securities
Ltd. in London. Imposing losses “has a knock-on impact on other
banks, it creates uncertainty and raises the question of what
the government is willing to do in extreme situations.”  Credit-default swaps insuring Irish sovereign debt jumped
19 basis points to 463, according to data provider CMA. That
means it costs $463,000 annually to insure $10 million of the
nation’s bonds for five years.  Investors holding 690 million euros of lower Tier 2 notes
plan to reject Anglo Irish’s Oct. 21 offer, which Houlihan Lokey
said is an attempt “to strong-arm noteholders to vote in
favor” by “threatening to eliminate minority dissenting
noteholders’ rights to repayment of monies.”  Sharing Burden  Ireland faces a bill of more than 50 billion euros to prop
up its banks and is seeking to ensure the losses of lenders it
owns outright are shared with subordinated noteholders. Anglo
Irish was nationalized by the government in 2009.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt fell 1 basis point to 164 basis points,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Corporate Index. The spread has narrowed from this year’s high
of 201 basis points on June 11. Yields averaged 3.515 percent,
from 3.483 percent Oct. 26.  Travelers Cos., the New York-based insurer added to the Dow
Jones Industrial Average in 2009, sold $500 million of 3.9
percent, 10-year notes and $750 million of 5.35 percent, 30-year
bonds in an issue boosted from $1 billion, Bloomberg data show.  The company tapped the U.S. corporate bond market after
Chief Executive Officer  Jay Fishman  told investors last week the
cost of debt versus equity has widened to the most he’s seen in
his career. Companies tendered for $30.5 billion of bonds last
month, the most since April, and may buy another $24.3 billion
this month, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Continued Onslaught’  “There’s a continued onslaught of companies trying to buy
back their debt,” said  Tom Murphy , a money manager who helps
oversee more than $22 billion of investment-grade credit at
Columbia Management in Minneapolis.  The weighted average  cost of debt capital  for Travelers is
0.61 percent, while the weighted average cost of equity capital
is 7.27 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Bonds from Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric
Co. were the most actively traded U.S. corporate securities by
dealers yesterday with 146 trades of $1 million or more,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Leveraged Loans  The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index  rose
0.03 cent to 91.22 cents on the dollar, the highest since May
10. The index, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated
first-lien leveraged loans, has returned 1.6 percent this month.  The extra yield investors demand to hold emerging-market
bonds rather than government debentures rose 1 basis point to
254 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co data.  The standoff between Anglo Irish and its subordinated
creditors is undermining confidence in the creditworthiness of
Ireland’s other banks.  Credit-default swaps tied to Allied Irish Banks Plc bonds
rose 13.5 basis points to 634.5, according to CMA. The extra
yield demanded to hold Irish 10-year bonds over German debt rose
by about 5 basis points to 424 basis points, approaching the
record 449 basis points last month.  Credit-default swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Contracts pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Anglo Irish subordinated bonds due 2014 rose 0.71 cent to
20.8 cents on the euro, according to pricing data compiled by
Bloomberg.  1 Cent  Anglo Irish has said that bondholders who don’t accept the
terms of the debt exchange will be given 1 cent per 1,000-euro
face amount for their securities.  Martha Kavanagh, an outside spokeswoman for Anglo Irish,
said the bank was unable to comment while the exchange offer was
open. Ray Gordon, outside spokesman for Ireland’s National
Treasury Management Agency, which manages certain bank oversight
functions for the state, declined to comment. An official at the
Department of Finance also wouldn’t comment.  The challenge by investors risks ending up in court,
especially if no consensus is reached and new legislation is
introduced, according to  Simon Adamson , an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in London.  “If bondholders are determined to challenge this, it could
be quite a long, drawn-out situation,” Adamson said. “This
goes against the general thrust of regulation right now, which
is all about getting bondholders to share losses. There doesn’t
seem to be much upside, except for the lawyers.”  The exchange of the lower Tier 2 notes will generate a
capital gain of about 1.26 billion euros that the bank can use
to bolster its capital ratios, according to analysts at Barclays
Capital in London. A repurchase of more-junior so-called Tier 1
debt that was also announced this month, will generate a gain of
347 million euros, the analysts said.  The bondholder meetings to approve the exchange must have a
minimum attendance of holders of 66 percent of the notes, 75
percent of whom must agree to the changes, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co., which is managing the offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at  