-- Irish, Portuguese Bonds Decline on Deficit, Political Concerns
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-10-28T15:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/irish-portuguese-bonds-decline-on-deficit-reduction-political-concerns.html
Ireland and Portugal led so-called
peripheral European bond markets lower amid renewed concern that
countries will struggle to cut their budget deficits.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold Irish
10-year bonds instead of similar-maturity German bunds rose to
within two basis points of its euro-era record before narrowing.
A group of  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. ’s creditors said they won’t
take part in a debt swap proposed by the lender. Portugal’s
biggest opposition party, which ended budget talks with the
ruling Socialist Party yesterday, led the government by a wider
margin in a survey of voter intentions, TSF radio reported.  “The periphery is very nervous and the near-term widening
pressure will not fade,” said  Matteo Regesta , an interest-rate
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “The markets don’t like
the cul-de-sac plaguing Portuguese decision making.”  The yield on Ireland’s 10-year bonds increased five basis
points to 6.94 percent as of 4:08 p.m. in London, adding to a
32-basis-point advance yesterday. The notes yielded 426 basis
points more than German bunds, up five basis points from
yesterday. Earlier, the spread widened to 452 points, near last
month’s high of 454. Portugal’s 10-year bond yield rose seven
basis points, with the spread over similar German securities at
338 basis points.  ECB Irish Purchases  The European Central Bank bought Irish government bonds
today, according to three traders and strategists with knowledge
of the transactions. The ECB purchased debt maturing between
2011 and 2020, one trader said, under condition of anonymity
because the deals are confidential. A central bank spokesman
declined to comment when contacted by telephone in Frankfurt.  A group of noteholders who hold about 690 million euros
($959 million) of lower Tier 2 Anglo Irish Bank notes, plan to
vote against an offer to exchange 1.6 billion euros of
subordinated debt for new bonds at 20 cents on the euro to
generate capital, investment bank Houlihan Lokey said in an e-
mailed statement late yesterday, contributing to a decline in
Irish bonds today.  Portugal’s opposition Social Democratic Party led by  Pedro Passos Coelho  had 42 percent backing from voters, 4 percentage
points more than in a September survey. The poll indicated 25
percent support for the Socialists, 11 percentage points lower
than the previous survey, according to TSF radio station.  German bonds declined as a report showed  European
confidence  in the economic outlook improved more than economists
forecast in October.  Italian Sale  An  index  of executive and consumer  sentiment  in the 16 euro
nations rose to 104.1 from 103.2 in September, the  European
Commission  in Brussels said in a statement today. That’s the
highest since December 2007 and exceeded economists’ forecast
for a reading of 103.5, based on the median of 26 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Manufacturers grew more confident as
orders and output improved.  The yield on the 10-year bund, Europe’s benchmark security,
rose one basis point to 2.56 percent. The two-year note yield
also increased, by three basis points to 1.04 percent.  German bonds have gained 7.7 percent this year, compared
with an 8.1 percent advance by U.S. Treasuries, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Portugal’s securities have lost
4.6 percent while those of Ireland slumped by 5.3 percent.  Italian 10-year bonds were little changed after the country
sold 7.25 billion euros of securities maturing in 2013 and 2021.
The yield was at 3.93 percent.  The country’s offering of 3.25 billion euros of 2021 bonds
attracted bids equivalent to 1.41 times the amount sold, little
changed from the so-called bid-to-cover ratio of 1.48 times
achieved at a Sept. 29 sale. Investors bid for 1.34 times the 4
billion euros of 2013 securities on offer today.  “Overall the result looks good and confirms that appetite
for Italian paper remains sound,”  Chiara Cremonesi , a market
strategist at UniCredit SpA in London, wrote in a client note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  