-- Irish, Spanish Banks Failing to Kick ECB Habit: Euro Credit
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   B r y a n   K e o g h
-- 2010-10-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/irish-spanish-banks-fail-to-reduce-dependence-on-ecb-funding-euro-credit.html
Greek, Irish and Spanish banks are
falling behind their counterparts across Europe in reducing
their dependence on emergency central bank funding because they
can’t find investors willing to buy their bonds.  Lenders from those three nations took 61 percent of the
loans supplied by the  European Central Bank  at the end of
September, up from 51 percent the previous month, data from
their respective central banks show. Overall, the region’s banks
cut their funding to 514.1 billion euros ($716 billion), the
least since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in
September 2008, according to ECB figures.  Deutsche Bank AG , HSBC Holdings Plc and  Societe Generale SA 
have sold new debt since regulators stress-tested 91 of the
region’s lenders in a bid to rebuild confidence in their
creditworthiness. By contrast, bonds of all lenders in Portugal,
Ireland and Greece are trading as though junk rated, as are a
third of banks in Spain, according to data compiled by Bank of
America Corp. Their struggle to sell debt will make it harder
for the ECB to curb loans to banks on Europe’s periphery.  “The ECB is going to have to support these smaller banks
for many years to come,” said  Simon Maughan , an analyst at MF
Global Ltd. in London, who has tracked the industry for more
than 15 years. “The ECB has to keep these banks alive and hope
and pray that the local regulators force them to restructure and
make them profitable again.”  ‘Political Construct’  The stress tests haven’t restored investor confidence in
banks to the levels of a year ago. Financial firms found buyers
for $186.6 billion of non-government-guaranteed debt in the
three months since the test results were published. While that’s
up from $130 billion in the preceding quarter, it compares with
$223 billion a year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It wasn’t really a stress,” said  Oliver Judd , a credit
analyst in London at insurer Aviva Plc’s investment unit, which
oversees about 250 billion pounds ($399 million). “The debt
market generally viewed the stress tests as a political
construct.”  Senior or covered bonds of half of the 68 banks that passed
the tests and have debt trade at yield at least 226 basis points
higher than government securities, equivalent to a rating of
about Baa3, the lowest investment grade at Moody’s Investors
Service, according to Bank of America data. The securities,
which weren’t government-guaranteed, were compared with the
average spread for each ratings grade in Bank of America indexes
that exclude junior subordinated debt.  Irish, Greek and Portuguese banks have been shut out of the
corporate bond market since April. Italian banks fared better as
its economy grew 0.5 percent in the second quarter, outpacing
expansion in Spain and Portugal.  Santander, BBVA  Spain’s two biggest banks, Banco Santander SA and Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, have been able to tap the market
because they rely less on their home market for revenue than
competitors. Banco Santander, Spain’s largest lender, gets 25
percent of its profit from Spain, while BBVA gets about 46
percent of its earnings from Spain and Portugal, according to
third-quarter earnings reports. The two have sold about $9.8
billion of debt since July 23 after raising nothing in May and
June, according to Bloomberg data. Spain’s smaller banks only
sold $2.48 billion of securities in the same period.  The region’s 30 largest publicly traded lenders have met
more than 95 percent of their refinancing needs for the year,
said  Huw van Steenis , a banking analyst at Morgan Stanley in
London. BBVA and Banco Santander have completed their funding
program for the year, while French banks have completed 75
percent and U.K. lenders have sold 85 percent of the securities
they need to this year, van Steenis said.  ‘Two-Tier Market’  “It’s a two-tier market,” said  Olivia Frieser , a banking
analyst at BNP Paribas SA in London. “There are those who can
issue without any problems and whose spreads are narrowing, and
those who still face difficulties and are reliant on the ECB for
funding. For many European banks, especially those on the
periphery, it’s still very difficult to get any bond issues
away.”  Borrowing costs for countries, including Ireland and
Portugal, have surged on concern the governments will struggle
to refinance their debts after bailing out their banking
systems. Greece, rated as junk by Moody’s Investors Service and
Standard & Poor’s, pays the highest interest rates in the region
on its government debt. Greek 10-year government bonds yield
10.38 percent and similar Irish bonds yield 6.79 percent. The
benchmark German bund yields 2.55 percent.  “The higher cost of bank debt in the periphery reflects
more about the perceptions of the sovereign and macroeconomic
risk than about the individual lender,” van Steenis said.  ‘Zombie Banks’  Investors demand an average yield of 1,010 basis points
more than government securities to own bonds sold by Irish
banks, according to Bank of America data. That compares with 252
basis points for Spanish lenders and 190 basis points for
Italian banks.  That’s making it harder for the ECB to remove the emergency
measures it put in place following Lehman’s failure. The ECB,
which ceased giving 12-month loans last year and intended to
phase out other liquidity measures earlier, was forced to delay
its exit by Greece’s debt crisis. In May, the ECB agreed to make
an additional six-month loan to banks and extended its offer of
unlimited three-month tenders. Banks can borrow as much as they
want for periods of between a week and three months.  “There are certain banks in the euro area that have become
highly dependent on the liquidity injected by the euro system,”
ECB council member  Mario Draghi  said in Rome on Oct. 1. “These
banks should be addressed by national authorities otherwise we
would have so-called zombie banks for some time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at   parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  