-- Hirst Fights Diluted Market With $435 Chair, Prints, Galleries
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2010-10-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/hirst-fights-his-diluted-market-with-435-chairs-drug-cabinets-galleries.html
Damien Hirst ’s medicine cabinets
were unpacked from crates stamped “Fragile” at  L & M Arts
gallery  in New York. Guided by precise instructions, eight
assistants filled them with drug containers for today’s opening.  Hirst’s market has also needed careful handling by
managers, dealers and auctioneers since he unloaded 218 lots of
new work at Sotheby’s in London two years ago. The sale raised
$199 million, according to Sotheby’s. This year through
September the artist’s auction revenue for painting and
sculpture totaled $4.8 million, according to London-based art
market research company  ArtTactic .  “There was a moment when it seemed like Hirst diluted his
own market,” said New York-based art adviser Mary Hoeveler.
“People stepped back from the Hirst market because they didn’t
know what his works were worth anymore.”  The artist’s high-priced work now tends to sell through
galleries rather than auction houses because the latter have
suffered more from the recession. Only four works fetched more
than $1 million at auction since September 2008. The priciest
piece -- a 17-foot-long “butterfly” painting -- took in $3.5
million at  Christie’s  in London earlier this month.  Three auction houses will offer 11 Hirst lots during
November postwar and contemporary sales in New York, yet only
one work will be included in an evening sale: a 2007 dot
painting with a $400,000-to-$600,000 estimate range at
Christie’s.  Gallery Sales  White Cube  gallery said it sold a sculpture by Hirst for
$5.6 million at Frieze art fair this month.  Gagosian  gallery has
two $1.2 million paintings in its current “Poisons + Remedies”
exhibition and has sold a cabinet filled with 27,888
manufactured diamonds during the Hirst exhibition in New York
earlier this year. The gallery declined to disclose the price of
the cabinet, which had been valued at $10 million.  “This whole downturn had been managed very carefully or
his market would potentially not have survived,” said  Anders Petterson , founder and managing director of ArtTactic.  Prices have come down by as much as 50 percent since the
peak, Petterson said, “but there’s interest at this new lower
level.”  Hirst is also exhibiting lower-priced multiple-edition
works to reach collectors on tighter budgets.  Paul Stolper 
gallery’s “The Souls” offers 120 butterfly prints that come in
dozens of color combinations and cost 3,000 pounds ($4,728)
each.  Galerie de Bellefeuille  in Quebec is preparing the first
Canadian survey of Hirst’s multiples, from 275-pound ($435)
chairs to $60,000 limited-edition X-ray prints; the gallery will
also have a $200,000 “spot” painting made in 2009.  New Manager  “A person buying a Damien Hirst print today might buy an
original work tomorrow,” said James Kelly, Hirst’s new manager.
Longtime manager  Frank Dunphy , 72, will retire at the end of
this year. Kelly, an accountant, will oversee the staff of 160
and the construction of a new exhibition space in South London
to house Hirst’s personal “Murder Me” art collection.  Kelly said sales of Hirst’s new work have been “solid,”
while declining to specify how much revenue those sales
generated this year.  Still, the artist’s ranking on a list of the art world’s
100 most influential figures dropped to 53rd this year from
first place in 2008, according to ArtReview magazine. Critics
panned Hirst’s Francis Bacon-inspired canvases exhibited at the
 Wallace Collection  in London.  “With Damien, most of his profound work was made early in
his career,” said Allan Schwartzman, who advises art
collectors. “Those works dealt in the most unsettling ways with
the issues of mortality.”  Sex Pistols  The L & M Arts show will examine that early period with 18
medicine cabinets, including 12 works inspired by the Sex
Pistols’ “Never Mind the Bollocks” and using titles from the
1977 album. The gallery and Hirst’s company  Other Criteria 
published a catalogue raisonne of about 100 medicine cabinets
the artist made between 1988 and 2008.  The auction record for a medicine cabinet made between 1988
and 1991 was achieved with the $1.2 million sale of “Never
Mind” (1990-91) at Sotheby’s in New York. Privately, they have
sold for as much as $2.5 million, said Dominique Levy, partner
at L & M Arts who organized the exhibition.  “His market has always seemed to be its own being,” said
Schwartzman. “It’s a machine that found a way to keep itself
alive because there’s so much invested in it.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
 Katya Kazakina  in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 