-- IStar Credit Swaps Tumble on Plan to Repay $1 Billion Loan
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-10-28T22:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/istar-credit-default-swaps-drop-on-plan-to-repay-1-billion-loan.html
Credit-default swaps on  IStar
Financial Inc. ’s debt tumbled by the most in three years and its
shares soared after the commercial real estate lender said it
plans to repay a $1 billion credit facility.  The cost to protect IStar’s debt for one year dropped 768.3
basis points to 1,663.6, the biggest decline since January 2007,
and the contracts protecting debt for five years lost 394.4
basis points to 1,252.4 at 4:30 p.m. in New York, according to
CMA data, signaling investor expectations for potential near-
term losses are easing.  IStar, which is seeking to restructure its debt to avert
bankruptcy, notified lenders that it will repay the loan
maturing in June 2012 next week, the company said today in a
statement, announcing third-quarter results. IStar Chief
Executive Officer  Jay Sugarman  said improvements in the capital
markets can help the company with debt coming due next year.  “The 2011 maturities are still a priority for us,”
Sugarman said today on a conference call. “There’s still a lot
of work to do, but as the markets improve and we whittle down
the number of variables, we look forward to finding the right
outcome in the coming quarters.”  The New York-based company reported a loss of third-quarter
net income allocable to common shareholders today that narrowed
to $83.5 million, or 89 cents a share, from $251.3 million, or
$2.55 a share, a year earlier.  Safer Sectors  The company’s $220.6 million of 5.65 percent notes due in
September rose 1.5 cents to 93 cents on the dollar as of 3:01
p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The
first-lien loan rose more than 2.5 cents to 99.25 cents on the
dollar, according to information provider Markit Group Ltd.  Shares  rose 64 cents, or 19 percent, to $4.07 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, to the highest since Sept. 9.
IStar climbed 34 percent this year through yesterday.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.2 basis point to a mid-
price of 94.1 as of 5:29 p.m. in New York, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd. The index has lost 12.6 basis
points in October, the biggest monthly drop since July.  “Since month end, credit has rallied, but the rally has
been led by the ‘safer’ sectors,”  Brian Yelvington , head of
fixed-income strategy at Knight Libertas LLC in Greenwich,
Connecticut, said in an e-mail. “So even if you adopted a
defensive stance going into the quarter, you likely came out a
winner.”  Unstable Cement  Swaps on ProLogis dropped 161.9 basis points this month,
after the world’s largest warehouse owner agreed to sell about
180 industrial properties to Blackstone Group LP to help reduce
debt. Ford Motor Co.’s credit-default swaps have lost 136 basis
points in the same period as the company pared debt and posted a
record profit in the third quarter.  Credit-default swaps on  Halliburton Co. , the world’s
second-largest oilfield-services provider, surged the most since
June after a government report said cement the company
recommended to seal  BP Plc ’s Gulf of Mexico well was unstable
and may have contributed to the largest U.S. offshore oil spill.  Contracts on Halliburton climbed 27.3 basis points to 87.2,
according to CMA, after the National Commission on the BP
Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill said documents provided by the
Houston-based company showed at least three tests of the cement,
in February and April, found the mixture for the Macondo well
unstable. BP received data from at least one test in March, the
commission staff said in a letter today.  The cost to protect Houston-based Halliburton’s debt nearly
tripled in June, reaching as high as 219.4, following the worst
U.S. oil spill, CMA data show.  Markit’s benchmark gauge, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, touched the
lowest in more than five months on Oct. 26 at 92.5 basis points.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pierre Paulden at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net  