-- Lithuania Says Poland Making `Hurtful' Accusations as Ethnic Row Escalates
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2010-10-28T13:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/lithuania-says-poland-making-hurtful-accusations-as-ethnic-row-escalates.html
Lithuanian Prime Minister  Andrius Kubilius  said Poland is making “hurtful” and “unfounded”
accusations about its Baltic neighbor as a dispute over the
treatment of Polish investment and minorities heats up.  Kubilius’ comments on Lithuanian radio came a day after
Polish Foreign Minister  Radoslaw Sikorski  said Lithuania  failed 
to live up to commitments to ethnic Poles and Polish investors.
Poland’s  PKN Orlen SA  is considering selling its Lithuanian
after access to the refinery was curtailed.  “I’m a bit astonished by the intentionally heated
atmosphere driven by some Polish politicians and by completely
unfounded accusations thrown at Lithuania,” Kubilius said today
in an interview with  Ziniu Radijas . “I can only guess that this
is a reflection of Poland’s domestic politics. It’s sometimes
hurtful to hear completely inaccurate accusations.”  The conflict between Lithuania and Poland, which share a
104-kilometer (65-mile) border, has escalated over the past two
weeks after Poland’s ambassadors to Lithuania and Lativa
criticized the treatment of ethnic Poles in the local media.
Lithuania’s Foreign Ministry responded that the statements were
inaccurate and inappropriate for diplomats.  Lithuania’s ethnic Poles, the country’s largest minority
group at 6 percent of the population, have sought for years to
spell their names in documents using letters such as ‘w’ that
don’t exist in the Lithuanian alphabet. The proposal was
rejected by Lithuanian politicians, irritating Poland.  PKN Orlen  PKN Orlen’s Lithuanian refinery in Mazeikiai has seen
profitability hurt by a lack of access to a fuel terminal and
higher shipping costs after Lithuania dismantled part of a
railway to Latvia, increasing the distance products must be
shipped to market.  Orlen chose  Nomura Holdings Inc.  in August to advise on the
future of the Lithuanian unit, formerly known as Mazeikiu Nafta.
It said options include selling some or all of its stake in the
only refinery in the Baltic states or keeping it and improving
efficiency.  “The accusations or rebukes that we don’t take care of the
Polish investment in Mazeikiu Nafta are also unfounded,”
Kubilius said. “Conditions for Mazeikiu Nafta’s operations
haven’t worsened a bit.”  Kubilius said he “regrets” the railway link for exports
to other Baltic nations was dismantled, adding that Lithuania
proposed lower railway tariffs to compensate for losses the
company incurs on shipments to Latvia and Estonia.  Orlen bought 84 percent of the refinery in 2006 for $2.34
billion, the biggest foreign investment by a Polish company,
then purchased the remaining shares.  “Problems at Mazeikiu Nafta aren’t logistical issues but
rather an overall situation at Europe’s oil refining companies,
which are seeing substantial drops in profit margins or even
losses in some cases,” Kubilius said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Milda Seputyte  in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  