-- Lithuanian GDP Growth Slows in Third Quarter on Agriculture, Construction
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2010-10-28T10:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/lithuanian-gdp-growth-slows-in-third-quarter-on-agriculture-construction.html
Lithuania’s  economic growth  slowed
in third quarter as declines in agriculture and construction
undercut an export-led recovery from Europe’s second-deepest
recession.  Gross domestic product grew 0.6 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a revised 1.1 percent in the previous
three months, the Vilnius-based  statistics office  said in a
statement today. The  median estimate  of six economists in a
Bloomberg survey was for a 2 percent increase.  The Baltic nation’s government has been relying on
international trade to fuel economic growth, with exports
growing in eight of the first nine months this year. Domestic
consumption is fragile amid falling wages and unemployment that
reached 18.3 percent in the second quarter, the highest in at
least 12 years.  “This is a bit disappointing,” said  Violeta Klyviene ,
chief Baltic economist at Danske Bank A/S in Vilnius. “Exports
alone aren’t enough to offset weak domestic demand and declines
in other sectors.”  Agriculture accounts for a bigger share of GDP in the third
quarter than in other periods, Klyviene said. Today’s report
suggests Danske Bank may revise its 2010 forecast to less than 1
percent, she said. The government forecasts the economy will
expand 1.6 percent this year.  The yield on Lithuania’s 10-year bond rose 0.01 percentage
point to 5.09 today.  Baltic Ripples  GDP  grew a seasonally adjusted 0.1 percent from the
previous quarter, the statistics office reported today. The
second-quarter figure was revised to 0.5 percent from the 3.2
percent reported Aug. 27.  “The weak Lithuanian figure also increases fears of weaker
than anticipated third-quarter growth for Estonia and Latvia,”
said  Annika Lindblad , an economist Nordea Markets in Helsinki.
“The Baltic economies have stabilized over the past year but
are still far from a proper recovery.”  Lithuania’s economy shrank 15 percent last year, second
only to Latvia’s 18 percent contraction among European Union
members.  Industrial output, representing about 20 percent of the
economy, increased an annual 7.8 percent in the third quarter,
compared with a 4.5 percent gain in the previous three months,
the statistics office said Oct. 21. Exports grew an annual 43.4
percent in August on faster fuel and plastic sales, according to
the latest data available data.  Retail sales returned to growth in September, expanding 6.1
percent, the first annual increase in two years, signaling that
domestic demand may have bottomed out.  Prime Minister  Andrius Kubilius  said growth in the third
quarter confirms “positive trends” in the economy and “give
optimism for the future,” according to an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Milda Seputyte  in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  