-- Hitler Planned to Hold Out in Austrian Alps, Allied Intelligence Indicated
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-10-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/hitler-planned-to-hold-out-in-austrian-alps-allied-intelligence-indicated.html
Allied military intelligence
indicated  Adolf Hitler  had built an underground Alpine fortress
to house “the elite of Nazi Germany” in a desperate, final
stand in World War II, according to documents released today.  Intelligence reports from 1944 and 1945, the last two years
of the war, suggested that leading Nazis would seek refuge from
an allied invasion of Germany in a vast underground network of
tunnels and caves in a “Nazi National Redoubt” hidden within
the Austrian Alps, the secret files published by the U.K.’s
 National Archives  in London showed.  The hideout was believed to have enough capacity, food and
munitions to supply about 60,000 men for two years, according to
the files. The reports described those who would take refuge
there as “war criminals,” “Nazi fanatics” and “those with
nothing to lose.”  History proved the intelligence wrong. As the war
approached its climax and Russian troops bore down on Berlin,
Hitler remained in the German capital, refusing to flee the city
for the south. The Nazi leader committed suicide in his bunker
on April 30, 1945, and Germany capitulated a week later.  From their hideout, the Nazis would coordinate resistance
groups worldwide, using propaganda, sabotage and bribery, while
the Nazis had established specialist training schools to prepare
soldiers for mountain warfare, the intelligence indicated.  “The chief importance of the reduit will be as a center
for directing the activities of the pro-Nazi and fascist
elements in all European countries, and particularly Germany,”
the U.S. Office of Strategic Services, a precursor to the
Central Intelligence Agency, said in the files.  “A small number of politically minded overoptimists” were
relying on ideological and commercial differences between the
Allies and their continuing war against Japan to cause the
assault on Germany to falter, the document said. Heinrich
Himmler, the head of the SS, was a prime example of those who
believed that the redoubt had a chance of success.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at   ebuckle@bloomberg.net . 