-- Liverpool's Torres, Reina Set to Exercise Escape Clauses: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-10-28T10:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/liverpool-s-torres-reina-set-to-exercise-escape-clauses-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Escape From Liverpool  Fernando Torres  and  Pepe Reina  will leave Liverpool in
January by exercising escape clauses in their contracts, the
 Daily Mirror  said.  The players made the arrangements with Anfield bosses in
the summer when they decided to stay following the departure of
manager  Rafael Benitez , the Mirror said. They now want to leave
because they feel a promised investment in the club was
unfulfilled, the newspaper said.  New owner  John Henry  has also made it clear there will be
no major spending during the January transfer window, the Mirror
said.  Manchester City is keen on signing 50 million-pound ($79
million) Torres, with Manchester United and Arsenal interested
in 20 million-pound rated Reina, the Mirror said.  Homeward Bound  Manchester City striker  Carlos Tevez  will fly home to
Argentina today in an effort to be ready for the club’s showdown
with rival Manchester United on Nov. 10, the  Daily Mail  said.  Tevez suffered a dead leg against Arsenal four days ago and
was expected to be available for this weekend’s game at Wolves.  However, tests have revealed severe swelling and internal
bleeding around his knee and thigh and he has been told he won’t
be able to play for about two weeks, the Mail said. Manager
 Roberto Mancini  has allowed him to go home for a few days to
visit family and rest before returning for intensive treatment,
the newspaper said.  Eyeing Pep  Manchester United is lining up Barcelona manager  Pep Guardiola  as  Alex Ferguson ’s successor, the  Mirror said .  Stories in Spanish media suggested Ferguson recommended
Guardiola because of his style of play, the Mirror said.
Guardiola is believed to have a strained relationship with
Barca’s new president  Sandro Rosell  and his contract expires
next summer, the newspaper said.  Keane to Juve?  Juventus will make a bid for Tottenham striker  Robbie Keane 
during the January transfer period, the  Sun said .  Keane, 30, has started just one Premier League game this
season and wants to resurrect his career. He previously had
a spell in Italy with Inter Milan in 2000.  Buy Big  Tottenham goalkeeper Heurelho Gomes has urged manager  Harry Redknapp  to buy “quality” players in January, the  Daily Star 
said.  Redknapp has been praised for adding  Rafael van der Vaart 
and  William Gallas  this season and Gomes would welcome more
players of their caliber.  “I think we need players like that, quality,” the Star
quoted Gomes as saying. “We have quality players already, but
you need players to make an impact on the team, like (Rafael)
van der Vaart has.”  Four-Club Battle  Steven Pienaar  has sparked a four-team battle after
stalling on a new contract with Everton, the  Daily Star  said.  Inter Milan, Manchester United, Chelsea and Tottenham are
all interested in the 28-year-old, who is free to agree to a
pre-contract with Italian and European champion Inter in
January, the Star said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 