-- Ivory Coast's Cocoa Farmers Are Hoarding Beans Until Buyers Improve Prices
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2010-10-28T10:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/ivory-coast-s-cocoa-farmers-are-hoarding-beans-until-buyers-improve-prices.html
Cocoa farmers in Ivory Coast, the
world’s largest producer of the chocolate ingredient, said they
are refusing to sell their beans unless buyers raise prices.  “Many farmers are hoarding their beans” because of the
low prices, said Honoré Seri of the Comité des Sages, an
advisory group of plantation owners set up in 2007 by President
 Laurent Gbagbo . The start of the main crop has been “very
slow,” Seri said by phone yesterday from the commercial
capital, Abidjan.  The Cocoa and Coffee Management Council, which oversees the
industry, earlier this month set an indicative cocoa price of
1,100 CFA francs ($2.32) per kilogram (2.2 pounds), meant as a
guide. Buyers are offering between 750 and 900 CFA francs per
kilogram to farmers in the central and eastern cocoa-producing
regions, Seri said. Ivory Coast abolished a fixed price in 1999
after the industry was opened up to private companies.  Cocoa traded on NYSE Liffe in London in June rose to the
highest level since at least 1989 on signs that demand was
exceeding production. Prices have since dropped 18 percent as
harvests began, adding to supplies. Prices may remain at current
levels because “fundamentals have shifted,” International
Cocoa Organization Executive Director  Jean-Marc Anga  said on
Oct. 13.  The ICCO estimates that cocoa production may exceed demand
by 100,000 metric tons in the current season as rainfall
improves and West African governments invest in the industry, it
said earlier this month.  ‘Don’t Respect It’  Cocoa exports from Ivory Coast fell 3.9 percent in
September, according to data from the ports of Abidjan and San
Pedro. Shipments dropped to 14,958 metric tons during the month
from 15,565 tons a year earlier, they said on Oct. 26.  Many farmers in Ivory Coast sell a small amount of beans to
raise money and then hold on to the rest of their harvest until
prices improve, according to Blanchard Allo, accountant of a
farmers’ cooperative in the central region of Gagnoa.  The group, which represents more than 100 farmers, has sold
21 metric tons of cocoa to the domestic processing plant so far
this season, compared with 76 tons at the same point a year
earlier, he said by phone yesterday.  Some farmers have suggested the indicative price has been
set artificially high this year to shore up support ahead of the
presidential election, scheduled for Oct. 31. “We don’t
understand why the government continues to announce a farmgate
price if buyers don’t respect it,” said Bilé Bilé, head of the
Union of Farmers Co-operatives of Abengourou, by phone from the
eastern region on Oct. 20.  “There’s a lot of cocoa on the trees but we don’t feel
like selling it.” Bilé owns about 300 hectares (740 acres) on
which he grows cocoa, he said.  Ivory Coast’s main crop runs from October through March,
while the mid-crop, the smaller of two annual harvests, runs
from April through September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pauline Bax  in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  