-- Japan Output Slide, Deepening Deflation Point to Economic Slump
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2010-10-29T02:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/japanese-production-falls-more-than-forecast-as-expansion-loses-momentum.html
Japanese  factory production  slumped
by more than double the pace economists forecast and deflation
deepened in September, adding to signs that a stronger yen is
causing the economy’s expansion to lose momentum.  Industrial output fell 1.9 percent in September from August
and  core consumer prices  declined 1.1 percent from a year
earlier after a 1 percent drop in August, government reports
showed today in Tokyo. The median forecast of 27 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for output to drop 0.6 percent.  Companies plan deeper cuts in production this month, a
survey released in today’s report showed, as a slowing global
expansion and the yen’s surge to a 15-year high against the
dollar are prompting companies to scale back. Toyota Motor Corp.,
the world’s largest automaker, cut domestic output in September
after its exports from Japan slid 11 percent last month.  “This was a real negative surprise,” said  Yoshiki Shinke ,
a senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo.
“It’s highly likely that Japan’s economy will contract in the
current quarter.”  The yen traded at 80.71 at 10:41 a.m. in Tokyo from 81
before the factory output report was released. It has surged 15
percent against the dollar this year and gained 6 percent since
authorities tried to stem the yen’s advance by intervening in
currency markets on Sept. 15.  Nissan Motor Co. Chief Operating Officer  Toshiyuki Shiga 
said this week that the carmaker will probably revise its
currency assumption for the second half of the fiscal year
because the yen is stronger than an earlier estimate. Toyota
Motor will likely revise its currency assumption for its full-
year profit forecast to about 80 yen to the U.S. dollar from 90
yen, President  Akio Toyoda  said this week.  Asset Buys  The Bank of Japan yesterday unveiled details of its 5
trillion-yen asset purchase program ($62 billion) and said it
will meet again next week, bringing their November meeting more
than a week forward, to discuss how it will purchase exchange-
traded funds and real-estate investment trusts. The bank earlier
this month unexpectedly cut its  key interest rate .  “Whether the BOJ will ease policy at the November meeting
depends on how the yen and other financial markets will react”
to the U.S. Federal Reserve’s Nov. 2-3 meeting, Shinke said.
“But worsening economic data add to reasons for the BOJ to ease
monetary policy further.”  Companies plan to cut output 3.6 percent this month and
increase it 1.7 percent in November, the government said today,
citing its survey of companies in the factory production report.  Makers of transportation equipment and electronic parts and
devices were among sectors that cut output last month, it said.
A report released earlier this week showed that  exports  expanded
at the slowest pace this year in September.  Adding Jobs  In one sign that the domestic economy is holding up, the
economy added jobs in September, helping the  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly decline to 5 percent from 5.1 percent, the
statistics bureau said in Tokyo today. Payrolls increased by
410,000 from a month earlier, the biggest increase since January.  “The worst of the job slump is over, but the improvements
in the unemployment rate will be extremely slow,” said  Azusa Kato , an economist at BNP Paribas in Tokyo. “Companies still
carry too many workers.”  The job-to-applicant ratio rose to 0.55 in September,
meaning there are 55 job openings for every 100 candidates, the
Labor Ministry said in a separate report today. In a sign hiring
may pick up, there were 91 newly advertised jobs in September
for every 100 people who started looking for work that month,
the most since January 2009.  An appreciating currency is prompting Japanese retailers to
cut prices of food, clothing and furniture to try to push up
sales. Nitori Holdings Co., a Japanese furniture retailer, this
week said it will cut prices of about 400 products by as much as
40 percent on Oct. 30 as the strength of the yen reduces the
company’s import costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  