-- Ota Says Japan Must Cut Corporate Tax to Halt Exodus of Companies Overseas
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   T a t s u o   I t o
-- 2010-10-28T02:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/japan-must-cut-corporate-tax-to-halt-yen-driven-exodus-ex-minister-says.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
needs to cut the nation’s corporate tax rate by more than 10
percentage points to stop the stronger yen from driving
companies abroad, a former economic minister said.  “What’s important right now is preventing companies from
unnecessarily hollowing out Japan,”  Hiroko Ota , 56, said in an
interview in Tokyo yesterday. The government should cut the
corporate tax, currently around 40 percent, by 5 percentage
points initially and lower it to “between 20 percent and 30
percent” within three years, she said.  Manufacturers from  Nissan Motor Co.  to  Murata Manufacturing
Co.  are considering moving more factories overseas to combat the
yen’s 14 percent surge against the dollar this year. Kan has
ordered his economic panel to discuss a reduction in the
corporate tax rate, which is one of the highest among
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development member
nations.  Lowering the levy is important because there is little the
government can do to halt the yen’s advance, which is being
driven by a weaker U.S. dollar, said Ota, who was in charge of
economic and fiscal policy from 2006-2008.  Some 39 percent of manufacturers said they will move
factories and development centers abroad should the yen stay at
about 85 per dollar, a Trade Ministry survey of 200 companies
showed in August.  The Japanese currency traded at 81.63 against the dollar at
11:17 a.m. in Tokyo. Policy maker efforts to halt its
appreciation by selling the yen and lowering interest rates
haven’t had much effect, with the yen advancing 5 percent since
authorities intervened in foreign-exchange markets on Sept. 15.  High Taxes  Companies in Tokyo pay a levy, including local taxes, of
40.7 percent. That is higher than China’s 25 percent, Seoul’s
24.2 percent and France’s 33.3 percent, Japanese  Finance
Ministry data  show.  Ota, vice president at the National Graduate Institute for
Policy Studies in Tokyo, said lowering the corporate levy could
be “an important message” that Japanese policy makers are
committed to implementing policies that will spur growth. She
also said the ruling Democratic Party of Japan should review its
election pledges, including childcare allowances, to find
funding source for a cut in the corporate tax.  Finance Ministry Reluctant  The Finance Ministry has indicated its reluctance to cut
the corporate tax as that could reduce revenue and boost public
debt. Vice Finance Minister  Fumihiko Igarashi  last week said the
government could lose as much as 2 trillion yen in revenue by
lowering the tax by 5 percentage points.  The government pledged in its medium-term economic plan
released in June to bring the corporate tax rate down to a level
“commensurate” with other leading nations.  Nissan Motor, Japan’s third-largest automaker, said last
month that Indonesia has the potential to become an export base
much like Thailand as the company moves production from Japan to
counter a strong yen. Murata Manufacturing, an electronics
components maker, said last month that it will eliminate most of
its temporary workforce and increase production overseas as the
yen’s strength forces it to reduce costs.  Free Trade  Ota also said Japan should participate in the U.S. backed
free-trade agreement known as the  Trans-Pacific Partnership .  Taking part in the deal would boost gross domestic product
by as much as 3.2 trillion yen, according to a government report
released yesterday. U.S. President  Barack Obama  is bidding to
increase trade with Asia to help meet a pledge to double exports
in five years.  Ota served under then Prime Ministers  Shinzo Abe  and  Yasuo Fukuda  from September 2006 until August 2008. During her tenure,
Ota advocated the need for Japan to increase productivity and
investment from abroad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net 
 Tatsuo Ito  in Tokyo at 
 Tito2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  