-- Topix Falls for Fourth Day as Asahi Glass, Shiseido Stoke Earnings Concern
-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 2010-10-28T08:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/japan-s-topix-falls-for-fourth-day-on-commodities-mitsubishi-paper-slumps.html
Japanese  stocks  fell, sending the
Topix index to its longest losing streak in more than two months,
on concern that earnings growth will slow.  Asahi Glass Co. , Japan’s biggest glassmaker, tumbled 4.2
percent after the Nikkei newspaper said profit growth slowed.
Toho Titanium Co., a titanium smelter, plunged 5.5 percent after
the company widened its net-loss forecast. Shiseido Co., the
nation’s largest cosmetics maker, lost 1.7 percent after cutting
its profit outlook. Canon Inc., the world’s No. 1 maker of
cameras, jumped 3.7 percent after boosting its earnings forecast.  “The market lacks confidence that strong earnings in the
first half will continue into the second half,” said  Junichi Misawa , head of equity investment at Tokyo-based STB Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $14 billion.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.2 percent to 9,366.03
at the 3 p.m. market close in Tokyo. The gauge moved within a
range of 63.24 points today, the narrowest since Aug. 9. The
broader  Topix  dropped 0.4 percent to 814.33, with more than
twice as many stocks retreating as advancing. Its four-day
losing streak was the longest since the period ended Aug. 12.  The gauges briefly  rose  about 1:34 p.m. after the Bank of
Japan said it will buy corporate debt with lower credit ratings
than it accepted before, and that policy makers will meet again
on Nov. 4-5, more than a week sooner than scheduled. The session
will follow a meeting by the U.S. Federal Reserve on Nov. 2-3.  Further Easing Hopes  Advancing the meeting “boosted expectations that the BOJ
may move to further easing,” said  Tsuyoshi Kawada , senior
strategist at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.  The Nikkei 225 has decreased 11 percent this year, the most
among the world’s 40 largest equity markets. Shares in the gauge
trade at 16.3 times estimated earnings on average, the lowest
level in three weeks. The measure is little changed this month.  Asahi Glass tumbled 4.2 percent to 781 yen. Operating
profit in the July-September quarter increased 70 percent year
on year, the Nikkei newspaper said. That’s less than one-fifth
the pace of increase of the previous quarter.  Taiheiyo Cement Corp., which is in the same industry group
as Asahi Glass in the Topix, slumped 4.3 percent, the  biggest
drop in the Nikkei 225 , followed by Asahi Glass.  Toho Titanium plunged 5.5 percent to 2,106 yen, the
steepest drop since June 25. The company widened its full-year
net loss  projection  to 5.6 billion yen ($68.8 million) from 4.5
billion yen, citing the stronger yen. Shiseido retreated 1.7
percent to 1,734 yen as the company cut its full-year net income
forecast by 14 percent because of losses on securities holdings.  Canon, Fanuc Climb  Canon climbed 3.7 percent to 3,755 yen and was the  most-
active stock  by value traded in Japan today, followed by Fanuc
Ltd. Canon raised its full-year net income forecast 2.1 percent
to 245 billion yen, citing cost cuts and higher camera shipments.  “Companies boosting full-year profit forecasts will likely
rise, but we can’t expect that to be strong enough to boost the
whole market,” said  Takashi Ushio , head of investment at
Marusan Securities Co. in Tokyo. “A lot of companies are
maintaining their full-year outlook because they are concerned
about currency impact.”  Fanuc, Japan’s No. 1 maker of industrial robots, surged 5.5
percent to 11,850 yen, extending yesterday’s gain, after saying
its first-half net income jumped sixfold. Fanuc  rose the most  in
the Nikkei 225. Fujitsu Ltd., Central Japan Railway Co. and
Kuraray Co. climbed more than 2.5 percent after reporting
profits that exceeded their forecasts.  Earnings Peak  Tomorrow is the  peak day  for earnings reports in Japan,
with about 270 of the 1,662 companies in the Topix scheduled to
report results, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  About three companies have exceeded profit estimates for
every two that fell short, based on  data  compiled by Bloomberg
from the 237 companies in the Topix that have reported quarterly
results since Oct. 7.  All 11 companies in the Topix Pulp & Paper Index declined
after  Hiroyuki Okaseri , an analyst at Nikko Cordial Securities
Inc., started coverage of the Japanese paper industry with an
investment rating of “bearish.” Oji Paper Co., the nation’s
biggest paper maker by market value, fell 0.8 percent. Nippon
Paper Group Inc., the second-largest, retreated 2 percent.
Mitsubishi Paper Mills Ltd. lost 1.2 percent.  The Bank of Japan today maintained a 5 trillion-yen asset
buying program, announced at its previous monetary-policy
meeting on Oct. 5, and said the fund will purchase 1.5 trillion
yen of government debt, 450 billion yen in exchange-traded funds
and 50 billion yen of real-estate-investment trusts.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 