-- Japan Issues Warnings as Typhoon Approaches; Flights Canceled
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   A d a m   L e
-- 2010-10-28T04:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/japan-issues-warnings-cancels-flights-as-typhoon-chaba-heads-for-okinawa.html
Japan’s weather bureau issued
warnings for gales and high waves in the south of the country as
Typhoon Chaba approached the island of Okinawa, bringing heavy
rain and forcing the cancellation of flights.  Chaba, the 16th storm of the northwestern Pacific season,
was about 210 kilometers (130 miles) south-southeast of Naha,
Okinawa at 11 a.m. local time today, the Japan Meteorological
Agency  said  on its website. The typhoon had sustained winds of
157 kilometers per hour that were gusting to 222 kph, JMA said.  The weather bureau issued warnings for storms and high
waves in Okinawa and for the latter in Amami, a string of
islands to the north where three people died last week in heavy
rains. As much as 50 millimeters (2 inches) of rain per hour was
falling in parts of Okinawa as Chaba approached, national
broadcaster NHK Television  reported .  “We’re on alert and ready to evacuate people if we need
to,” Kiyoto Kumamoto, deputy head of the Amami City police
station, said in a phone interview today. Two people drowned and
one person died when a house collapsed on Oct. 20 as heavy rain
lashed the islands, he said.  Japan Airlines Corp. canceled 28 flights in the region, the
company said in a  statement  on its website. All Nippon Airways
Co. may cancel services to Naha and other destinations as the
storm approaches, the airline said in a  statement .  The typhoon is classified as “extremely strong,”
according to the JMA’s scale for rating storm strength.  ‘Catastrophic Damage’  Chaba is a Category 4 Storm with sustained winds of 213
kph, the U.S. Navy Joint Typhoon Warning Center said in the
latest  advisory  on its website.  Category 4 storms, the second-strongest on the five-step
 Saffir-Simpson  scale, are capable of “catastrophic damage,”
according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center.  The storm was moving north-northeast at 17 kph and is
forecast to pass about 210 kilometers to the east of the U.S.
air force base of  Kadena  on Okinawa before turning northeast
toward Japan’s main island, Honshu.  Kadena Air Base issued the second-highest typhoon alert,
meaning winds stronger than 93 kph are expected within 12 hours,
according to a  statement  posted on its website. Non-essential
personnel were assigned to their quarters and all shops,
restaurants and recreational facilities were closed.  Chaba may make landfall on Honshu southwest of Tokyo,
before crossing the capital by Oct. 31, the center said.  Chaba is the name of a tropical flower in Thailand,
according to the Hong Kong Observatory, which  lists  names
assigned to storms in the northwest Pacific.  To contact the reporters on the story:
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 ssbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Le in Osaka at 
 ale14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 