-- Japanese Consumer Prices Decline 1.1% in September as Deflation Worsens
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-10-28T23:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/japan-consumer-prices-fell-1-1-in-september-more-than-analysts-expected.html
Japan’s  consumer prices  fell for a
19th month as the yen’s advance makes imports cheaper and a
slowing economy erodes demand.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food declined 1.1 percent
in September from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said
today in Tokyo. That compares with a median 1 percent drop
forecast by 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The Bank of Japan yesterday maintained its projection that
core prices will increase in the year starting April 2011 and
said those gains will accelerate in fiscal 2012. The forecasts
are still below the median 1 percent rise that board members
consider to represent price stability, a prerequisite for the
bank to end its near zero rate policy, said  Yoshimasa Maruyama .  “Everyone is assuming Japan’s consumer price drops will be
prolonged,” Maruyama, a senior economist at Itochu Corp. in
Tokyo, said before the report. “The focus is on when inflation
will rebound enough to allow the BOJ to end this rate pledge.”  The central bank this month said it would keep the
benchmark rate in a range of zero percent and 0.1 percent until
price stability comes into sight. Board members have said they
consider prices stable when they are in a positive range of up
to 2 percent.  The government said in June it wants prices to increase in
the year starting April 2011. Economic Minister  Banri Kaieda 
said in an interview last week that a stronger yen may prevent
prices from rising.  Cutting Prices  An appreciating currency is prompting Japanese retailers to
cut prices of food, clothing and furniture to spur consumption.  Nitori Holdings Co. , a Japanese furniture retailer, this
week said it will cut prices of about 400 products by as much as
40 percent on Oct. 30 as the strength of the yen reduces the
company’s import costs.  BOJ policy makers yesterday forecast core prices will rise
0.1 percent next fiscal year after falling this year. They
predicted prices will increase 0.6 percent in the fiscal 2012.  The government’s statistics bureau will next year update
its consumer price index by reshuffling items that it keeps
track of for the index. Bank of Japan Deputy Governor  Kiyohiko Nishimura  last week said it’s highly likely that a revision will
push down prices from projected levels. The last revision
lowered prices by about 0.5 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  