-- Japan 'Totally Behind' in Fighting Deflation as Fed Gears Up
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2010-10-29T00:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/japan-risks-being-totally-behind-in-fighting-deflation-as-fed-gears-up.html
The Bank of Japan’s inflation
forecast shows it won’t meet its own guidelines for price
stability, a prediction that signals policy makers haven’t
pumped enough cash into the economy.  Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and his board yesterday left
the size of an asset-purchase fund at 5 trillion yen ($61
billion) even after its introduction failed to stem gains in
the yen. At the same time, policy makers predicted  consumer
prices  will rise 0.6 percent in fiscal 2012, little more than
half the 1 percent median definition of price stability of
board members.  Government reports today reinforced signs of a worsening
economy that indicate the Bank of Japan needs to do more,
with September consumer prices and industrial production
sliding more than forecast. Japan’s inflation-linked bonds
signal investors don’t anticipate the nation will end
deflation, with prices seen falling an average of about 0.78
percent in the next eight years.  “The BOJ is totally behind the curve,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in
Tokyo, who used to work at the central bank. “The BOJ is
still hesitant to be proactive considering the size of long-
term bond purchases.”  The size of the fund, a portion of which goes to buying
government bonds, amounts to 1 percent of gross domestic
product, less than the 9 percent injection to base money
enacted by Shirakawa’s two predecessors, according to Morgan
Stanley. By contrast, the Federal Reserve next week could
pledge to pump an amount equivalent to 3.4 percent into its
economy.  ‘Money Drops’  “Japan will likely need ‘helicopter money drops’ to
ensure a full escape from the Great Deflation,” Citigroup
Inc. Chief Economist  Willem Buiter  and analysts including
Tokyo-based  Kiichi Murashima  wrote in a note to clients
yesterday. Asset purchases of “100 trillion would be more
appropriate,” they said.  The BOJ yesterday also brought forward the date of its
next meeting more than a week, to Nov. 4-5, a shift that
gives scope to respond to any Fed easing, according to  Hideo Kumano , chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute
in Tokyo and a former BOJ official.  Japan’s currency, which reached a 15-year high of 80.41
per dollar four days ago, will stay “strong” given the Fed
is more likely to embark on “adventurous and extraordinary
actions,” according to Nishioka. The yen jumped 0.9 percent
yesterday and was little changed at 81.01 as of 8:41 a.m. in
Tokyo.  Prices Fall  Government figures today showed that consumer prices
excluding fresh food, the Bank of Japan’s preferred measure,
slid 1.1 percent in September from a year before. Japan’s
inflation-linked bonds, which pay investors more if consumer
prices rise,  yield  more than nominal government securities,
indicating investors expect deflation to continue.  The eight-year so-called breakeven rate, or the yield
that nominal bonds offer less than that for inflation-linked
debt, was minus 0.78 percent as of 9:03 a.m.  Industrial production tumbled 1.9 percent in September
from the previous month, a government report showed today,
the biggest slide since February 2009.  At the same time, a separate report showed that the
 unemployment rate  fell to 5 percent from 5.1 percent in
August, backing the BOJ’s view expressed yesterday that the
economy will return to recovery after a temporary slowdown.  Shirakawa told reporters that the Fed’s gathering next
week wasn’t behind the date shift. He said the board wanted
to speed up the purchases of exchange-traded funds and real-
estate investment trusts that are part of the 5 trillion yen
program.  Debt Purchases  The BOJ also said yesterday it will buy corporate debt
with lower credit ratings than it previously purchased,
including BBB rated corporate bonds and a-2 commercial paper.
The fund will purchase 1.5 trillion yen of government debt,
450 billion yen in ETFs and 50 billion yen of REITs, the bank
said.  The Fed’s Open Market Committee gathers Nov. 2-3. New
York Fed President  William Dudley , vice chairman of the panel,
set expectations for an announcement of about $500 billion in
bond purchases with an Oct. 1 speech. Such an amount would be
about 3.4 percent of America’s $14.58 trillion GDP.  Anticipation of further Fed easing has undermined the
dollar, and helped the yen to a 14 percent jump so far this
year. Japan’s deflation enhances the yen’s purchasing power,
helping make it a haven.  Japan Example  American central bankers are trying to avoid Japanese-
style deflation. Japan’s GDP deflator, a gauge of prices
across the economy, has fallen 14 percent since 1997,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bank of Japan’s board also left unchanged its
forecast for the consumer price index excluding fresh food,
the measure preferred by the BOJ, to rise 0.1 percent in the
fiscal year starting April 2011, and predicted a 0.6 percent
gain the following year.  “The BOJ’s latest easing measures are just a reaction
to the yen’s appreciation and politicians’ criticism that the
bank isn’t serious about beating out deflation,” said  Seiji Adachi , a senior economist at Deutsche Securities Inc. in
Tokyo. “The BOJ’s latest monetary easing measures alone
aren’t sufficient to beat out Japan’s prolonging deflation.”  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has repeatedly urged the
central bank to act to stem deflation in the past year,
including a call for an inflation target of as high as 2
percent.  Last Time  Prices responded to the BOJ’s last episode of so-called
quantitative easing, according to  Robert Feldman , head of
economic research at Morgan Stanley in Tokyo. Base money, or
 notes  and coins plus the deposits banks hold at the central
bank, surged 58 percent from 2001 to 2003. The headline CPI
rose in 2004 for the first time since deflation got
entrenched in 1998.  Base money peaked in January 2006, and has since shrunk
14 percent.  Central banks have turned to asset-purchase programs
once they’ve reduced their benchmark interest rates -- as in
the case of Japan and the U.S. -- to near zero.  Shirakawa has said that the bank needs to maintain its
self-imposed limit of keeping its Japanese government bond
holdings below the amount of bank notes in circulation to
help avoid any image that it’s financing the government’s
budget deficits.  Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s Cabinet has approved a 5.1
trillion yen stimulus aimed at helping local governments and
small businesses cope with the strengthening currency.  For Japanese companies, around 90 yen is “the limit to
stay profitable,”  Eiji Hayashida , chairman of the Japan Iron
and Steel Federation and president of JFE Steel Corp., said
this week.  Nissan Motor Co.  Chief Operating Officer  Toshiyuki Shiga  said this week the automaker plans to revise its
expected exchange rate for the second half of this fiscal
year to reflect a stronger yen.  “It’s crucial for the bank to provide long-sustaining
money to the economy, and therefore it’s necessary to buy
long-term government bonds aggressively,” said Adachi at
Deutsche Securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  