-- Japan's Unemployment Rate Unexpectedly Falls to 5.0% as Payrolls Increase
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2010-10-28T23:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/japan-s-unemployment-rate-unexpectedly-falls-to-5-0-as-payrolls-increase.html
Japan’s unemployment rate
unexpectedly fell as payrolls rose, signaling that the job
market may be improving even as the economy is threatened by
an advancing yen.  The  jobless rate  dropped to 5.0 percent in September,
the statistics bureau said today in Tokyo. The median
 forecast  of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was 5.1
percent.  Today’s report is one of few bright spots in Japan’s
economy after data this week suggested that demand both at
home and abroad is waning. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s Cabinet
approved a 5.1 trillion yen ($63 billion) stimulus package to
protect the slowing economy from the advancing currency.  “The worst of the job slump is over, but the
improvements in the unemployment rate will be extremely
slow,” said  Azusa Kato , an economist at BNP Paribas in Tokyo.
“Companies still carry too many workers.”  Retail sales and exports grew at the slowest pace this
year in September, and the Bank of Japan said yesterday the
economy will slow in the latter half of this fiscal year and
there will be “some lingering effects of the yen’s
appreciation” next year.  Kan’s new stimulus is aimed at helping small businesses
and local governments cope with the strengthening yen.  Renesas Electronics Corp . is among businesses still
cutting staff. The semiconductor maker plans to cut 1,200
jobs through early retirement, Renesas said this week. The
company also lowered its revenue forecast for the year ending
March 2011, saying that its semiconductor sales in the second
half of the fiscal year is likely to stall because of the
stronger yen.  The  job-to-applicant ratio  rose to 0.55 in September,
meaning there are 55 job openings for every 100 candidates,
the Labor Ministry said in a separate report today. In a sign
hiring may pick up, there were 91 newly advertised jobs in
September for every 100 people who started looking for work
that month, the most since January 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  