-- Japan Needs 100 Trillion-Yen `Helicopter' Drop, Citigroup Economists Say
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-10-28T17:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/japan-needs-100-trillion-yen-helicopter-drop-citigroup-economists-say.html
The Bank of Japan’s 5 trillion-yen
($62 billion) asset-purchase fund is too small and ought to be
as large as 100 trillion yen to rid the economy of deflation,
according to Citigroup Inc. Chief Economist  Willem Buiter .  “Japan will likely need ‘helicopter money drops’ to ensure
a full escape from the Great Deflation,” Buiter and other
Citigroup economists including Tokyo-based  Kiichi Murashima  said
in a note to clients dated Oct. 28. “The scale of the
quantitative easing that is required is an order of magnitude
larger than what has been announced.”  The Bank of Japan’s inflation forecast shows it won’t meet
its own guidelines for price stability, a prediction that
signals policy makers may need to add further money into the
economy. The central bank on Oct. 5 pledged to keep a
“virtually  zero rate policy ” and created the fund to purchase
assets including corporate bonds and exchange-traded funds.  “The 5 trillion-yen additional quantitative easing
announced recently by the BOJ is far too small to achieve
anything,” the economists said. “Given the worse circumstances
of Japan, 100 trillion would be more appropriate.”  The BOJ yesterday brought forward the date of its next
policy meeting to Nov. 5, a move which could accelerate stimulus
to the economy. Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said the dates of
overseas events including the Federal Reserve decision on Nov. 3
weren’t behind the BOJ’s move to reschedule its meeting from Nov
15-16.  The Citigroup economists also said that Japan is “in
trouble” because of the scale of its government debt.  “We think Japan’s unsustainable fiscal situation needs to
be corrected soon either by monetizing government deficits and
debt or by generating sustained primary budget surpluses,” they
wrote. “Failure to act could plunge Japan into a sovereign debt
crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  