-- Japan's Bonds Rise Most in Three Weeks After BOJ Brings Forward Meeting
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-10-28T06:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/japan-s-government-bonds-climb-as-slowdown-signs-high-yields-spur-demand.html
Japan’s 10-year government  bonds 
rose the most in three weeks after the nation’s central bank
today said it will bring forward next month’s meeting, fueling
speculation it will announce additional easing measures.  Ten-year bonds snapped a five-day drop as the Bank of
Japan, which left borrowing costs on hold today, said it will
meet again after a Federal Reserve gathering on policy next
week. Bonds also advanced before reports tomorrow forecast to
show consumer prices and industrial output dropped.  “The BOJ is holding the next meeting earlier and will be
ready to take action after markets react to the Fed’s action,”
said Takeshi Minami, chief economist at Norinchukin Research
Institute Co. in Tokyo. “Investors still have an appetite for
bonds, especially short-term notes.”  The yield on the 0.8 percent bond due September 2020 fell
five basis points to 0.905 percent as of 3:07 p.m. in Tokyo at
Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt
broker. The price rose 0.448 yen to 99.047 yen.  Five-year yields dropped two basis points to 0.275 percent.
Ten-year bond futures for December delivery gained 0.33 to
143.51 as of the afternoon close at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Ten-year yields earlier touched 0.97 percent, the highest
since Sept. 28. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  BOJ Easing  Fed policy makers, who already cut interest rates almost to
zero and bought $1.7 trillion of securities, are considering
additional asset purchases to flood markets with cheap money to
stoke inflation. The Fed may announce a new round of so-called
quantitative easing measures at its next meeting on Nov. 2-3.  The BOJ will buy BBB rated corporate bonds and A-2
commercial paper, the bank said in a statement released today in
Tokyo. The central bank had only accepted bonds rated A or
higher and a-1 commercial paper when it was buying corporate
debt in 2009 in the wake of the global credit crisis.  Board members moved their next meeting to Nov. 4-5 from
Nov. 15-16 and plan to discuss how the bank will purchase
exchange-rated funds and real-estate investment trusts.  The bank maintained its benchmark overnight call rate at
between zero percent and 0.1 percent, as forecast by economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. It also kept the amounts of its 5
trillion-yen asset buying program and 30 trillion-yen credit
facility unchanged.  “It’s hard to imagine Japan’s long-term yields will rise
sharply when you think about the nation’s economic outlook and
current BOJ policy,” said Satoshi Yamada, who helps oversee
about $12 billion as manager of fixed-income trading at Okasan
Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “I expect people to buy on dips
at current yield levels.”  Falling Prices  Consumer prices  excluding fresh food slid 1 percent in
September from a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey
before tomorrow’s report. Falling prices in the economy enhance
the value of debt’s fixed payments. Industrial production
dropped 0.6 percent in September, a separate survey showed.  The BOJ today said consumer prices in the 2011 fiscal year
will rise 0.1 percent from the previous 12 months, the same as
its previous forecast in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 