-- KDB to Boost Corporate Bond Holdings as Sovereign Yields Fall
-- B y   J u n g m i n   H o n g
-- 2010-10-28T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/kdb-to-boost-corporate-bond-holdings-as-sovereign-debt-yields-decline.html
KDB Asset Management Co. , a unit of
South Korea’s largest state-run banking group, plans to increase
its holdings of company bonds after yields on the nation’s
sovereign debt dropped to a record low.  The subsidiary of KDB Financial Group Inc. will boost its
corporate allocation to about 40 percent from 30 percent by
year’s end and is looking at South Korean chemical, information
technology and shipping companies on improved earnings,  Kim Hyung Ki , head of the fixed-income division, said in an
interview at his office in Seoul.  “Demand for corporate bonds outweighs supply as companies
are sitting on sufficient cash and not actively selling,” said
Kim, who oversees 5.2 trillion won ($4.6 billion) of domestic
assets and has 70 percent of his portfolio in sovereign, quasi-
sovereign and bank notes. That, coupled with healthy company
balance sheets, will see yield spreads on corporate notes narrow,
he added.  The yield on South Korea’s 3.75 percent bond due June 2013
reached an all-time low of 3.03 percent last week after the
central bank held off raising interest rates for a third
straight month, citing concern over the strengthening won. The
benchmark note yield was at 3.29 percent yesterday from a three-
week high of 3.31 percent the day before, according to the Korea
Stock Exchange. Similar-maturity corporate notes rated AA and A
yielded 3.92 percent and 4.26 percent, data from the  Korea
Financial Investment Association  show.  Nations across emerging markets are trying to restrain
their currencies as investors seek higher-yielding assets amid
near-zero interest rates in the U.S. and Japan. Brazil and
Thailand are imposing taxes to control inflows. Korea’s central
bank may consider capital controls, though Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said this week they create “distortions and costs.”  Cash Holdings  The 553 companies on the  Korea Exchange  boosted holdings of
cash and equivalents 19.5 percent last year to a record 85
trillion won, according to data from the bourse.  LG Chem Ltd. , South Korea’s biggest maker of chemicals,
last week said third-quarter profit increased 11 percent as
prices rose for materials used to make cars and home appliances.  The extra yield investors demand to own LG Chem’s three-
year 4.85 percent bonds rather than similar-maturity government
debt has narrowed to 34 basis points from 80 basis points on Jan.
4, according to NICE Pricing prices on Bloomberg.  The spread on South Korean corporate bonds rated AA+
narrowed to 54 basis points from 91 over the same period, Korea
Financial Investment Association data show. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  The Bank of Korea left borrowing costs at 2.25 percent on
Oct. 14. The currency traded at 1,126.85 per dollar yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It reached 1,110.05 Oct.
14, the strongest since May 3. The won has gained 5.6 percent in
the past three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at 
 jhong47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  