-- Kenyan Banks Have Increased Scope to Reduce Interest Rates, Ndung'u Says
-- B y   E m i l y   B o w e r s
-- 2010-10-28T14:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/kenyan-banks-have-increased-scope-to-reduce-interest-rates-ndung-u-says.html
Banks in  Kenya , East Africa’s
biggest economy, have more scope to lower their lending rates
after deposits increased, Central Bank of Kenya Governor  Njuguna Ndung’u  said.  The central bank has asked lenders to cut the cost of
borrowing after they failed to pass on to their customers a 2.5
percentage-point reduction in the benchmark interest rate to a
record low of 6 percent since January 2009. Kenyan commercial
banks have kept average lending rates little changed at about
13.98 percent in September, according to central bank data.  Deposits held by the East African nation’s 43 lenders
increased by 22 percent to 1.2 trillion shillings ($14.8
billion) in the 12 months through August, according to the bank.  “You cannot continue with high lending rates and excess
liquidity, something has to give way,” Ndung’u said in an
interview yesterday at an African Development Bank conference in
Gammarth, Tunisia. “We have to see lending rates coming down
because the cost of doing business is coming down.”  Kenyan banks may cut lending rates by between two and three
percentage points over the next 18 months as the cost of
securing collateral falls and loan losses drop, Standard
Chartered Plc’s domestic unit said last week.  Rate Cuts  The central bank has lowered its benchmark rate to
stimulate economic growth. The economy is expected to expand by
6 percent in 2011, compared with an expected 5 percent expansion
this year, President  Mwai Kibaki  said last week.  Kenya’s growth rate may be boosted by improved rail, road
and energy infrastructure in East Africa, which would improve
manufacturers’ access to regional markets, Ndung’u said. About
43 percent of the nation’s exports are currently shipped to
neighboring countries, he said.  “You can imagine how it can enhance that if we improved on
infrastructure,” he said.  The  Central Bank of Kenya  sold 30.6 billion shillings of
so-called infrastructure bonds in August, following the sale of
16.2 billion-shilling of similar securities in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emily Bowers  in Gammarth, Tunisia via Johannesburg at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 