-- Kenya Power & Lighting Capital Restructuring May Raise About $309 Million
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2010-10-28T05:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/kenya-power-lighting-capital-restructuring-may-raise-about-309-million.html
Kenya Power & Lighting Co. , the
country’s monopoly power distributor, will raise 25 billion
shillings ($309 million) in a capital restructuring that will
result in the government owning a majority stake in the company.  The reorganization involves the conversion of preference
shares into ordinary stock, a rights offer and a share split,
Kabaki Wamwea, executive director of  Dyer & Blair Investment
Bank Ltd. , said in an interview today. Dyer & Blair is advising
KPLC on the process.  “We expect to raise roughly 25 billion shillings, if you
combine the preference shares with the rights,” Wamwea said.  Kenya, East Africa’s biggest economy, plans to increase
installed-power capacity by almost nine-fold to 9,000 megawatts
over the next 20 years, while targeting annual economic growth
of 10 percent. The government is forecasting growth of at least
4.5 percent this year.  The state’s stake in KPLC will climb to 50.1 percent from
40 percent after the restructuring, Wamwea said. The government
is converting about 795 million preference shares into 76.6
million ordinary stock and won’t take up its rights in the
planned offering of 20 new shares for every 51 held by existing
stockholders, he said.  The share split will involve the division of one share into
eight to improve the liquidity of the stock, Managing Director
 Joseph Njoroge  said Oct. 7.  All the transactions are subject to regulatory and
shareholder approval, Wamwea added.  KPLC is expected to announce details of the restructuring
at a media briefing in Nairobi tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Ombok  in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 