-- Kenya Power & Lighting Share Sale Will Start Next Month, MD Njoroge Says
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2010-10-28T10:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/kenya-power-lighting-share-sale-will-start-next-month-md-njoroge-says.html
Kenya Power & Lighting Co. , the
country’s monopoly power distributor, will begin a rights offer,
share split and conversion of preference stock to ordinary ones
on Nov. 25, Managing Director  Joseph Njoroge  said.  The offer to existing shareholders will close on Dec. 15
and the company wants to raise between 7 billion shillings ($89
million) and 10 billion shillings through the transactions,
Njoroge told reporters today in Nairobi, the capital.  “We are doing them concurrently to mitigate against any
dilution,” Njoroge said. “A more precise figure will be
announced once the price of the shares is determined.”  Kenya, East Africa’s biggest economy, plans to increase
installed-power capacity almost ninefold to 9,000 megawatts over
the next 20 years, while targeting annual economic growth of 10
percent. The government is forecasting growth of at least 4.5
percent this year.  “Funds raised from the rights issue will be invested in
the refurbishment and further development of the power delivery
system,” Njoroge said.  Presently, the East African nation’s government owns 40
percent of the company and its stake will rise to 50.1 percent
upon completion of the capital restructuring exercise, he said.  A shareholders’ meeting will be held Nov. 10 to seek
approval for the transactions that also need consent from the
market regulator, he said.  The process may raise as much as 25 billion shillings,
Kabaki Wamwea, executive director of Dyer & Blair Investment
Bank Ltd., said in an interview. Dyer & Blair is advising Kenya
Power on the restructuring.  Shares in Kenya Power  were unchanged at 228 shillings by
1:05 p.m. Nairobi. The stock has gained 63 percent this year,
outperforming a 43 percent advance in the  benchmark NSE-20 Index 
over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Ombok  in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  