-- Singapore Exchange's ASX Bid Suffers Setback as Key Lawmakers Oppose Sale
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-10-28T07:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/key-australian-lawmakers-join-opposition-to-singapore-takeover-of-exchange.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. ’s A$8.1
billion ($7.9 billion) bid for  ASX Ltd.  was dealt another
setback when three key Australian lawmakers said they opposed
the sale of the nation’s bourse.  Australian Greens member  Adam Bandt , the National Party of
Australia’s Tony Crook and independent  Andrew Wilkie  today
joined independent  Bob Katter  in opposing the proposed tie-up
between Asia’s fifth- and eighth-largest bourses. That means
Singapore Exchange, part owned by the city-state’s government,
needs the support of the minority Labor government, which hasn’t
decided its stance on the deal, and at least four other
legislators in the lower house of parliament to approve the deal.  “I would not support any move to sell the Australian Stock
Exchange to Singapore or to interests in Singapore,” Wilkie
told reporters in Canberra today. “The Australian Stock
Exchange is just too fundamentally important to our economy and
to our sovereignty.”  The  Foreign Investment Review Board  will assess the merger
and has as many as 120 days to make a recommendation to
Treasurer  Wayne Swan . ASX will brief  Joe Hockey , the opposition
Liberal Party of Australia’s Treasury spokesman, on the proposed
merger tomorrow, he said in a statement.  The value of Singapore Exchange’s cash-and-stock offer for
its Australian rival was the equivalent of A$46.23 for each ASX
share, or a total of A$8.1 billion, based on closing prices in
Singapore yesterday.  Singapore Exchange shares rose 0.7 percent to S$8.90 at
3:05 p.m. in the city state. The stock is down 6.6 percent since
the proposal was first announced on Oct. 25. ASX stock rose 1.5
percent to A$37.86 in Sydney, below the value of the takeover
bid.  ‘Legitimate Stakeholders’  “The view of the nationalists is that the ASX is the
lifeblood of the Australian financial system, and that now it
could become a regional hub of Asia,” said  Chris Weston , a
Melbourne-based institutional dealer at IG Markets. “To me,
it’s just an exchange. You want the financial system to be as
competitive as possible and as streamlined as possible, and to
offer the best technology and best products. It has a lot to do
with national pride right now.”  ASX looks forward to discussing the merger proposal with
“legitimate stakeholders,” said  Matthew Gibbs , a spokesman for
the bourse. Magdalyn Liew, a spokeswoman for SGX, wasn’t
immediately available to comment.  To approve the takeover, Swan would need to introduce a
regulation to  Parliament  lifting the 15 percent ownership cap on
the ASX stipulated in Australia’s Corporations Act.  Katter’s Blocking Motion  “I think it would be a mistake to sell the Australian
stock exchange,” Tony Crook, a member of the Western Australian
Nationals who calls himself an independent, told reporters in
Canberra. “We are of a mind to sell everything of late. I think
the Australian stock exchange is fundamentally Australian and it
should stay here.”  Independent member Katter today listed a motion for
Parliament to block any deal that would see majority foreign
ownership of the ASX, saying it would be “lunacy to give
regulatory functions to a foreign country.” The motion is
scheduled to be debated for two weeks starting Nov. 15, ahead of
any consideration on the Singapore Exchange merger.  The proposed merger will face scrutiny from foreign
investment regulators, the Reserve Bank of Australia and the
Australian Securities and Investments Commission, Swan said
yesterday.  “Decisions that I take are decisions that maximize the
economic prosperity,” Swan told reporters in Canberra. “The
Foreign Investment Review Board will talk to other regulators
and I will make a decision.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor government faces
uncertainty because it doesn’t hold a majority in the lower
house as the result of an election on Aug. 21 that delivered the
closest result in 70 years.  It’s not in Australia’s national interest “to have our
stock exchange part owned by the Singapore government,” the
Greens’ Bandt told reporters in Canberra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  