-- Kirchner's Death Opens Political Vacuum in Argentina Before Election
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2010-10-28T18:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/kirchner-s-death-leaves-political-vacuum-ahead-of-2011-election.html
The death of former Argentine
President  Nestor Kirchner  may strengthen the opposition before
next year’s presidential elections as his wife and successor,
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner , loses her most powerful ally.  Kirchner, who left office in 2007 after battling investors
during the country’s $95 billion debt restructuring, died
yesterday of a heart attack at a hospital near the couple’s home
in the Patagonian town of El Calafate. He was 60.  His absence creates a power vacuum and political
uncertainty before the October 2011 presidential election, said
 Miguel Kiguel , a former finance under-secretary who runs
research company Econviews. Bonds and  stocks  rose yesterday on
speculation the opposition will win the vote and reverse
policies that curtailed foreign investment, kept the country out
of foreign debt markets and led to the world’s third-highest
inflation rate.  “His death raises the great question of how the daily
dynamic in the government will work,” Kiguel said in a
telephone interview from Buenos Aires. “Until now, she had been
overshadowed by her husband.”  Opposition parties stand a better chance in next year’s
vote because Kirchner had been the strongest potential
candidate,  Felipe Noguera , a Buenos Aires-based political
analyst and co-founder of the Latin American Association of
Political Consultants, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Confrontation  Fernandez, 57, is eligible to run for a second, four-year
term and she and her husband had said that one of them would
compete in the upcoming election.  After taking office in 2003, Kirchner antagonized creditors
by offering them bonds at 30 cents on the dollar in exchange for
defaulted debt, the harshest sovereign restructuring terms since
World War II. In 2007, he sacked several top officials at the
National Statistics Institute, a move investors said allowed the
government to underreport inflation.  Fernandez has further riled investors while continuing her
husband’s confrontational style. In 2008, she raised export
tariffs on grain and soybeans, which led to a four-month protest
by farmers that ended when Congress scrapped the increase. The
same year, she nationalized $24 billion in pension funds and
seized Aerolineas Argentinas SA from Spain’s Grupo Marsans.  To improve the business climate, the next government will
need to cut subsidies on energy, lower export taxes on farm
goods and reach an accord with the International Monetary Fund
and the Paris Club group of creditors, Argentine opposition
leader  Francisco de Narvaez  said last month in an interview.  Market Rally  Yields on dollar bonds due in 2033 fell 50 basis points to
8.96 percent yesterday, the biggest decline since June 18,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Yields extended their declines
today, falling 9 more basis points to 8.87 percent as of 1:29
p.m. New York time. Argentina’s  Merval  stock index rose 1.1
percent to 2,951.66, the highest in almost a week.  Thousands of people gathered last night outside the
presidential palace to bid goodbye to Kirchner, who is lying in
state at the presidential palace, called the Pink House.
Mourners left flowers, chanted “Long Live Peron” and unfurled
banners supporting the government. As part of three days of
official mourning, the Argentine Soccer Federation canceled
weekend matches.  Presidents from Chile, Bolivia, Uruguay and Ecuador
attended today’s wake in Buenos Aires. Argentina’s soccer star
 Diego Maradona  gave his condolences to Fernandez and her two
children at the presidential palace.  Possible Competition  If Fernandez seeks re-election next year, she may face
competition from fellow Peronists including Buenos Aires
province Governor  Daniel Scioli , who served as Kirchner’s vice
president, and former President  Eduardo Duhalde .  Mauricio Macri , the capital’s mayor, and Radical party
Congressman  Ricardo Alfonsin , the son of former President  Raul Alfonsin , have said they are considering presidential bids. Vice
President  Julio Cobos , a Radical who broke with the government,
is also a potential contender.  Kirchner had a central role in government decision-making,
and his absence means the president will have to take control on
her own for the first time,  Daniel Kerner , an analyst for the
Eurasia Group, said in a telephone interview. She’ll be helped
by an outpouring of public sympathy and may see her re-election
chances strengthened, he said.  Kirchner’s death doesn’t necessarily mean Fernandez will
scale back her government’s ambitions,  Carlos Fara , a director
of pollster Carlos Fara & Asociados, said in an interview.  Government Ideology  “The fights picked by the government to push forward its
policies will continue because it’s part of their ideology,” he
said.  Kirchner took office in the wake of Argentina’s 2001
default and a devaluation that forced his elected predecessor,
Fernando de la Rua, to resign amid deadly protests. Nicknamed
the Penguin, because he hailed from Argentina’s southernmost
mainland province, he boosted annual  economic growth  to an
average 8.8 percent during his term.  Fernandez’s popularity has been rising as South America’s
second-biggest economy rebounds from the global financial
crisis. Her approval rating rose to 36 percent in September from
as low as 20 percent in 2008, during the farm protests,
according to Buenos Aires-based pollster  Poliarquia Consultores .
The survey of 1,000 people was conducted from Sept. 1 to Sept. 8
and has a margin of error of 3.2 percentage points.  The central bank expects gross domestic product to expand
9.5 percent this year, the fastest pace since 1992, as a result
of record soy crops and higher domestic consumption.  The government says consumer prices rose 11.1 percent in
September from a year ago, the third-highest rate in the world
after Venezuela and Pakistan. Buenos Aires-based Ecolatina
research firm said prices rose 24.7 percent in the same period.  “The opposition will face the challenge of speaking out
without attacking the government, because that would not go down
well,” Fara said. “Kirchner died at a time when the
government’s popularity had been rising for several months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  