-- KKR Is Said to Consider Leaving Seagate Bidding Group
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-10-28T23:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/kkr-said-to-consider-dropping-out-of-bidding-group-for-seagate-technology.html
KKR & Co.  may drop out of a group of
investors in talks to buy  Seagate Technology Plc , the world’s
largest maker of disk drives, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter. Seagate shares dropped 8.4 percent.  TPG Capital, which is leading buyout talks, will look for
new partners and plans to talk to other private-equity firms as
well as pension and sovereign wealth funds, said one of the
people, who declined to be identified because the matter is
private. Bain Capital LLC is still interested in the buyout, the
person said.  A collapse of the deal would mark the second failed buyout
attempt for the company this year. TPG restarted takeover
discussions with  Seagate  after an earlier proposal with Silver
Lake broke down, the people said. The disk-drive maker may be a
difficult candidate for a leveraged buyout because of its high
capital costs, said  Rajesh Ghai , an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC.
The industry also is suffering because more storage is shifting
to flash memory, rather than disk drives, he said.  “The outlook for the business is pretty bleak right now,”
Ghai said. The San Francisco-based analyst rates the shares
“hold” and doesn’t own them. “The PC market has been in a
slump and a lot of it is being cannibalized by tablets, which do
not have hard drives.”  Shares Fall  KKR and TPG have been considering an offer of about $16 a
share for  Seagate , people familiar with the matter said earlier
this month.  Seagate dropped $1.28 to $13.94 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading, giving the company a market value
of $6.6 billion.  Brian Ziel , a spokesman for Scotts Valley, California-based
Seagate, didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.  The company said Oct. 14 that it was in talks to be taken
private, without identifying the parties involved. A deal would
be Seagate’s second leveraged buyout in a decade.  The company’s revenue is under pressure amid competition
from rivals such as  Western Digital Corp.  On Oct. 20, Seagate
posted quarterly profit and sales that missed analysts’
estimates. Excluding some items, profit was 37 cents, compared
with the 46-cent average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales rose 1.3 percent to $2.7 billion.  TPG, along with Blackstone Group LP and Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP, also pursued an unsuccessful takeover of Fidelity
National Information Services Inc. in May. The private-equity
groups offered more than $15 billion for the company, people
with knowledge of the deal said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  