-- Korean Won Halts Two-Day Decline as Current-Account Surplus Nearly Doubles
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-10-28T01:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/korean-won-halts-two-day-decline-as-current-account-surplus-nearly-doubles.html
South Korea’s won halted a two-day
decline after a central bank report showed the nation’s current-
account  surplus  almost doubled in September.  The currency yesterday dropped the most in a week,
retreating from near a five-month high, after the Bank of Korea
said measures to mitigate capital flows could be “useful.” The
comments were made four days after finance chiefs from the Group
of 20 nations pledged to refrain from “competitive devaluation”
following talks in South Korea. The current-account surplus
widened to $4.06 billion in September from a revised $2.19
billion in August, data showed today.  “The current-account surplus is a positive factor for the
currency,” said  Yun Se Min , a currency trader at Busan Bank in
Seoul. “But the overall trend globally is profit-taking by
releasing emerging-market assets and buying back the dollar.”  The won traded at 1,126.85 per dollar as of 10:04 a.m. in
Seoul, from 1,128.24 yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It reached 1,110.05 on Oct. 14, the strongest level
since May 3.  The Bank of Korea forecasts a $30 billion current-account
surplus this year, Edaily reported today, citing central bank
official Lee Young Bog. The monetary authority expects this
month’s surplus to be similar to September’s, the report said.  “A strong current-account surplus will raise pressure for
the won to appreciate,” said  Sung Jae Man , a curency analyst at
Tong Yang Securities Inc. in Seoul.  Large inflows can cause excessive currency moves and asset-
price bubbles, destabilizing the economy, central bank Governor
Kim Choong Soo said in Seoul yesterday. Policy makers have left
the benchmark interest rate unchanged for three straight months
at 2.25 percent, citing exchange-range volatility as a threat to
growth.  South Korean government bonds rose. The yield on the 3.75
percent bond due June 2013 dropped two basis points to 3.29
percent, after closing at a three-week high of 3.31 percent
yesterday, according to Korea Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  