-- New Jersey Senate Race a Referendum on Christie as Unions Back Democrat
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-10-28T14:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/new-jersey-s-senate-race-a-referendum-on-christie-as-unions-back-democrat.html
New Jersey’s  organized labor and
major political parties are pouring hundreds of thousands of
dollars into a special election to serve one year of a vacated
state Senate seat, a race that may test the strength of first-
term Governor  Chris Christie’s  attack on employee unions.  Candidates in the 14th District, which includes suburbs of
the capital city of Trenton and is home to thousands of state
workers, have  spent  $1.2 million, more than 80 percent of the
total for New Jersey’s legislative elections on Nov. 2. The
Democrat seeking that seat, Assemblywoman  Linda Greenstein ,
raised $937,000 through Oct. 27 with help from unions for
teachers and public employees, campaign-finance reports show.  Greenstein faces incumbent  Tom Goodwin , the first New
Jersey Republican to seek election since Christie won the 2009
governor’s race. Christie has since gained national fame for
assailing the cost of public-sector pay and benefits. He isn’t
on the ballot until 2013, so Goodwin is drawing the labor
attacks in his place, said Statehouse lobbyist  Jeff Tittel .  “I think it’s the unions’ line in the sand,” said Tittel,
director of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club, which
endorsed Greenstein. “If Greenstein loses, they’re going to be
in much more serious trouble next year.”  New Jersey, one of two states to elect a governor last
November, has special elections in three legislative districts
this year. Spending for those races totaled $1.4 million. All
120 members of the Legislature face re-election in 2011.  Christie Versus Unions  Christie, 48, became the first Republican to win a
statewide election in 12 years when he beat one-term Democrat
 Jon Corzine , a former  Goldman Sachs  Group Inc. co-chairman.  Since taking office in January, Christie has signed into
law pension and benefits cuts for public employees and urged
voters to reject school budgets if teachers didn’t accept pay
freezes. At an Oct. 26 town-hall meeting in South Brunswick, the
governor said he would fire 1,500 state workers next year.  Goodwin, 59, was appointed to fill a vacancy that Christie
created in February by appointing Senator  Bill Baroni  as deputy
director of the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey.
Republicans have held that seat, which represents parts of
Mercer and Middlesex counties, since  Peter Inverso  defeated
Democrat Francis McManimon in 1991.  Democratic Control  Greenstein is seeking to expand her party’s 23-17 Senate
majority and move to the Legislature’s upper chamber. Democrats
also control the Assembly, 47-33. Union support accounts for $2
of every $3 Greenstein raised outside Democratic political
organizations,  finance reports  show.  “I think the unions are a little more galvanized than
usual,” Greenstein, 60, said in an Oct. 25 interview. “They
are really working strongly on this.”  Greenstein contributors include the Communications Workers
of America, the biggest state workers’ union; the  Service
Employees International Union , which represents state and city
workers; and the New Jersey Education Association, the largest
teachers’ union. Christie accused the association earlier this
year of using “students like drug mules” to carry information
to their parents on voting for school budgets.  Christie has campaigned for Goodwin twice this month, as
well as for Republicans from California to Connecticut as
gubernatorial races are held in 37 states this year. In an Oct.
21 letter to party members, the governor said he needs “allies
working with me in Congress, and state, county and local
government to reduce spending, debt and waste.”  “I’ve worked hard but I’m going to work even harder down
the stretch because the stakes are just too high not to be
giving it all we have,” Christie wrote.  ‘Rough Year’  Christie’s former campaign treasurer, Ronald Gravino,
serves the same role on Goodwin’s campaign. Goodwin got $218,000
from state Republican political organizations, of $488,462
raised, campaign finance reports show. Unions gave him a total
of $10,900, according to reports filed through Oct. 26.  Public-employee unions in New Jersey typically endorse
Democrats. Labor leaders say they are working hard in the 14th
District because they are grateful for Greenstein’s support
during her 11 years in the Assembly.  “She has been a very good friend to public service,” said
 Hetty Rosenstein , the CWA’s New Jersey area director. “I think
no matter what, we’re going to have a rough year next year.”  “It’s based strictly on their record and their answers
with regard to central questions,” said Steve Baker, spokesman
for the 178,000-member  NJEA . The union is one of seven that gave
Greenstein’s campaign the maximum $8,200 allowed, filings show.  Labor Support  The amount Greenstein raised through Oct. 27 included about
$516,000 from Democratic state political committees, $27,200
from other lawmakers and $147,850 from organized labor,
according to Bloomberg calculations. She reported $56,000 in
mailing and printing support from the Democratic State Committee
yesterday.  Michael Drewniak , Christie’s spokesman, said he was struck
by the level of union support for Greenstein. “That says it
all,” he said.  Drewniak declined to comment directly on whether the race
would be a referendum on Christie. He said the governor had
tried to make a “level playing field” for candidates by
issuing an  executive  order on his second day in office that
would have subjected unions to pay-to-play limits on campaign
contributions. That was rejected after a court challenge.  “The governor’s support is obviously for Senator
Goodwin,” he said.  Goodwin, in an Oct. 27 interview, said he believed the race
would be about him and Greenstein, not Christie and the unions.  “People will look at this race as about the economy and
jobs, and the race is between us,” Goodwin said.  Assemblyman  John Wisniewski , chairman of the Democratic
State Committee, said observers shouldn’t read too much into the
race. Voters elected 47 Democrats to the Assembly last year as
they ousted Corzine, he said.  “The real story would be if there were no union
contributions for a Democratic candidate,” Wisniewski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  