-- New Zealand Exports, Building Approvals Data Underscore Sluggish Recovery
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-10-29T02:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/new-zealand-september-building-approvals-rise-0-5-from-month-earlier.html
A gauge of homebuilding in New
Zealand fell for a third month in September and exports were
less than economists predicted, adding to the case for sluggish
economic growth and no change in interest rates until next year.  Exports were NZ$3.16 billion ($2.4 billion) in September,
less than the NZ$3.3 billion median expectation in a Bloomberg
News survey of nine economists, Statistics New Zealand said
today in Wellington. Homebuilding approvals excluding apartments
fell 2.6 percent from August to a 14-month low, a separate
report showed.  Falling domestic demand, a weak housing market and a slump
in consumer confidence have curbed economic growth and add to
signs that central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  won’t raise
borrowing costs for the rest of this year. Yesterday, he kept
the official cash rate at 3 percent for a second month, while
saying monetary policy support will be removed at some stage.  “It’s consistent with very moderate, modest growth,” said
 Craig Ebert , senior markets economist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd.
in Wellington. “It’s good that it’s not going backwards but nor
is it going forward with any gusto.”  All 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News yesterday
expect Bollard will keep the cash rate unchanged at his next
reviews in December and January before a likely quarter-point
increase in March.  Gross domestic product rose 0.2 percent in the second
quarter and growth is also likely to be subdued in the third
quarter, Ebert said. He forecasts 0.5 percent.  Quake Effects  Growth  estimates are complicated by effects on activity
from the magnitude 7 earthquake that rocked Canterbury province
on Sept. 4. Statistics New Zealand today said some of the
weakness in building approvals was exacerbated by the temblor,
which closed council offices and disrupted consent processing.  Consumer confidence  fell to a 14-month low in October,
according to an index from ANZ National Bank Ltd. and Roy Morgan
Research.  “There is a view the New Zealand economy is somewhat
fragile,”  Nigel Morrison , chief executive officer of Sky City
Entertainment Group Ltd., the nation’s largest casino operator,
said today in an interview.  “We know the economy is still challenging in New Zealand
and we have to work very hard to do better than the economy,”
he said. “There’s still a lot of companies in Auckland finding
business tough.”  Exports  Exports rose 0.3 percent from August led by milk powder,
butter and cheese, today’s report showed. Third-quarter  exports 
fell 2.5 percent from the second quarter, the statistics agency
said, citing data adjusted for seasonal changes.  In September, total homebuilding  approvals  were little
changed near a 13-month low, the statistics agency said today.  Economists prefer to look at homebuilding approval figures
that exclude apartments because of the volatility of approvals
for large projects.  “Activity is going to remain weak for the remainder of the
year if not into the early part of next year,” Ebert said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  