-- IRS Focuses Audit on 2009 Build America Bonds Sold by New Jersey Turnpike
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-10-28T21:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/new-jersey-turnpike-s-build-america-bonds-audited-as-irs-steps-up-review.html
The U.S. Internal Revenue Service is
auditing $1.375 billion in Build America Bonds issued by the New
Jersey Turnpike Authority in April 2009.  The authority, which plans to sell $2 billion of the
federally taxable debt next month, said today in a public filing
that it received a letter dated Sept. 27 from the IRS informing
it that its 2009 Series F bonds were selected for examination.  The U.S. tax agency is auditing 15 to 20 deals in the
$152.7 billion federally subsidized Build America market,
 Clifford Gannett , the IRS’s tax-exempt bond division chief, has
said. It has asked for documents and other information on the
pricing and sale of the bonds, as well as on how the proceeds
were spent, according to the Turnpike Authority’s filing.  “The authority intends to comply with the requests of the
IRS set forth in the letter,” the filing says.  The letter, signed by James Raybeck, an IRS agent, says the
agency has “no reason to believe” the authority failed to comply
with “applicable tax requirements.” Raybeck said the documents
should be sent to his office in Nashville, Tennessee, by Nov. 1.  IRS reviews of Build America Bonds have been reported by
San Antonio, in connection with $375 million in securities, and
the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago,
concerning a $600 million deal.  Queries Since February  The agency in February began sending  questionnaires  to
issuers asking whether they monitor trading of their bonds soon
after they are issued. It also asked whether the securities were
purchased for the accounts of underwriters, which could reap
added profits if they were sold at below-market prices.  The prices of some Build America Bonds have soared in
trading immediately after they were issued, delivering potential
gains to those able to buy the securities at the initial
offering price. Such gains may indicate an issue paid interest
at higher than the prevailing market rate, which may lead
investors to bid up the price when trading begins.  The Treasury pays issuers 35 percent of the periodic
interest due on Build America Bonds, so higher rates mean larger
taxpayer subsidies.  In the case of the Turnpike Authority, its bonds rose as
much as 6 percent to $1.06 on the dollar on the first day of
trading, pushing down the yield by almost one-half of a
percentage point, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investment Division  Among the 94 buyers that acquired the bonds at the issue
price was the New Jersey  Investment Division , which manages
funds for the state pension system that covers turnpike
employees.  The division’s $10 million purchase was the first of about
$2 billion in Build America Bonds acquired by the state for its
$70 billion retirement funds, according to William Quinn, a
spokesman for Treasurer  Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff . The division
also bought $50 million of the subsidized debt issued by the New
Jersey Transportation Trust Fund Authority this month, he said.  In 27 deals, including the San Antonio issue under IRS
review, the state has sold the BABs it acquired at the offering
price in as little as five days, gaining a total of $9.2 million
on the trades, state records compiled by Bloomberg show.  The federal government says in a  notice  on its website that
it may deem Build American Bonds to be retired, and ineligible
for the 35 percent rebate, if they were bought by related arms
of government, such as pension systems.  Transaction-Fee Focus  The tax agency is also looking into whether transactions
have run afoul of limits on fees paid to Wall Street banks and
others involved in issuance, according to the IRS notice sent to
the Turnpike Authority.  The authority paid its financial adviser on the 2009 deal,
Jersey City-based  NW Financial Group LLC , about 50 cents per
$1,000 raised, or $690,240, state records show. The size of the
fee prompted a review by Governor  Chris Christie ’s
administration.  For the planned $2 billion Build America Bond deal, NW
Financial won’t receive any payment beyond its $75,000 annual
fee,  James Simpson , state transportation commissioner and
chairman of the authority, said in an interview last month.  The authority operates the 148-mile (238-kilometer) New
Jersey Turnpike and the 173-mile Garden State Parkway that
stretches from Cape May to the New York state line. The agency,
in the first year of a 10-year, $7 billion capital-improvement
campaign, issued $2.5 billion in bonds last year, generating
$1.3 million in fees for NW Financial.  Complying With Request  Dennis Enright , NW’s principal, didn’t immediately respond
to a telephone call seeking comment today. Tom Feeney, an
authority spokesman, said the agency is complying with the
federal government’s request.  The IRS can withhold subsidy payments from governments that
don’t follow the rules, a step similar to the revoking the break
it awards on traditional tax-exempt bonds. In a  statement  this
week, the agency said it is considering ways to resolve
infractions pertaining to the Build America Bond program that
would avoid revoking subsidies, similar to its program to settle
disputes over tax-exempt debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  