-- New York Giants' Kiwanuka to Miss Rest of NFL Season With Herniated Disc
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-28T19:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/nfl-giants-mathias-kiwanuka-to-miss-rest-of-season-with-neck-injury.html
New York Giants defensive end
 Mathias Kiwanuka  will miss the rest of the season because of a
herniated disc in his neck, leaving the team without one of its
top pass-rushers.  Kiwanuka, who had four sacks in his first three games this
season, was placed on season-ending injured reserve today.
Kiwanuka, 27, sat out the Giants’ past four games due to the
neck problem and said he met with five doctors to determine the
best treatment.  “I want to avoid surgery,” Kiwanuka told reporters. “The
consensus is that if I take the proper amount of time off, there
is a very good chance that it’ll heal on its own. That’s what
the goal is right now.”  Kiwanuka is in the final season of his rookie contract
with the Giants, whose 5-2 record is tied for the best in the
National Football Conference. The Giants have won four straight
games and their defense ranks third in the National Football
League with 24 quarterback sacks.  “It’s painful for us to go this route with Kiwi, but we’ve
exhausted all of our options,” Giants General Manager Jerry
Reese said. “What’s most important is for him to get healthy.
We’re praying and hopeful that by next fall he will be back at
100 percent and playing for the New York Giants.”  This is the second time in four seasons that Kiwanuka will
miss significant time because of injury.  In 2007, he fractured his left leg after 10 games and
missed the Giants’ run to the Super Bowl title. Kiwanuka said
the latest setback is more frustrating because he’s in no pain.  “The toughest part is not having an actual physical
ailment,” Kiwanuka said.  The Giants signed defensive back and kick returner Will
Blackmon to replace Kiwanuka on the roster. Blackmon, who spent
the past four seasons with the Green Bay Packers, was Kiwanuka’s
roommate during his senior year at Boston College.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  