-- Sanusi Says Nigeria's Recovery is `Vulnerable' to Global Economic Growth
-- B y   E m i l y   B o w e r s
-- 2010-10-28T20:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/nigeria-s-growth-is-vulnerable-central-bank-s-lamido-sanusi-says.html
Nigeria’s economic growth is
“vulnerable” because of dependency on expansion in other
countries such as China, said Central Bank of Nigeria Governor
 Lamido Sanusi .  Expansion has been achieved “not because of policy
success, but in spite of policy failures,” Sanusi said at an
African Development Bank conference in Gammarth, Tunisia.  Nigeria’s economy is likely to expand by 7.75 percent in
2010, Finance Minister  Olusegun Aganga  said Oct. 25, outpacing
2009’s rate of 7 percent. The continent’s growth will reach 5
percent this year and 5.5 percent in 2011, according to the
International Monetary Fund.  The “fragile” recovery in the global economy is the main
risk to Africa’s growth, said Abebe Selassie, the IMF’s division
chief for Africa, on Oct. 25.  African countries including Nigeria, the continent’s
second-biggest economy after South Africa, should better control
their own economic development, Sanusi said.  “If Asia continues growing, if the good numbers that we
saw in Britain and Germany are signs of the absence of a double-
dip recession, then we are likely to continue growing,” he
said. “For how long will we continue to be subject to the
successes and failures of other countries?”  Sanusi said Nigeria wants to boost growth with
infrastructure projects that would be “profitable investments”
for funders, rather than donations by foreign aid groups.  The country’s infrastructure deficit is estimated at $100
billion, Aganga said Oct. 25. Nigeria is Africa’s biggest oil
and the continent’s third-largest cocoa grower, after Ivory
Coast and Ghana.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emily Bowers  in Gammarth, Tunisia via Johannesburg at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 