-- Nintendo Second-Quarter Profit Declines 15% on Slumping Sales of Wii, DS
-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v   a n d   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 2010-10-28T09:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/nintendo-second-quarter-profit-declines-15-on-slumping-sales-of-wii-ds.html
Nintendo Co. , the world’s largest
maker of video-game players, posted a 15 percent drop in second-
quarter profit after demand for the Wii console and DS handheld
players slumped.  Net income  fell to 23.2 billion yen ($285 million) in the
three months ended September, matching the average of three
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The figures were
calculated by subtracting first-quarter numbers from the first-
half results released by Kyoto, Japan-based Nintendo today.  Nintendo is forecasting its smallest annual profit in six
years as demand for the Wii slumps and consumers hold off on
buying DS players before the release of a 3-D model. President
 Satoru Iwata  plans to introduce the 3DS handheld this fiscal
year and a heart-rate-tracking “Vitality Sensor” accessory for
the Wii to revive  earnings growth .  “It’s been harder than people realized for Nintendo to
make the transition between the DS and the 3DS,” said  Jay Defibaugh , a games analyst at MF Global FXA Securities Ltd. in
Tokyo. The 3DS is cannibalizing sales of its predecessor,
Defibaugh said.  Nintendo  declined 0.7 percent to 21,290 yen at the trading
close in Osaka, Japan. The shares have lost 3.4 percent this
year.  3DS Delayed  Nintendo  said in June that the 3DS handheld, whose debut
was pushed back until after the year-end holiday season, will
allow users to see 3-D images without the need for special
glasses. The product has three cameras and a motion sensor to
create the 3-D effect.  The 3DS will go on sale in Japan on Feb. 26 for 25,000 yen
and the following month in the U.S. and Europe, where the price
hasn’t been set, the Kyoto-based company said last month.  “I don’t think the announcement of the 3DS had much effect
on second-quarter earnings,” Nintendo’s senior managing
director  Yoshihiro Mori  said in a briefing in Osaka today. “We
decided not to release the 3DS this year because we didn’t have
enough.”  Sales of DS players dropped 43 percent to 6.7 million units
in the six months ended Sept. 30, while the number of game
titles sold fell 23 percent to 54.8 million.  Nintendo  today kept
its outlook for full-year sales of the handheld to decline 13
percent to 23.5 million units.  Wii Players  The company sold 4.97 million Wii consoles in the first
half, 14 percent fewer than a year earlier, while software sales
dropped 14 percent to 65.2 million copies. Sales of the Wii will
decline for the second year, sliding 15 percent to 17.5 million
units in the period to March 2011, Nintendo said.  Second-quarter  operating profit , or sales minus the cost of
goods sold and administrative expenses, fell 52 percent to 30.9
billion yen in the quarter, as revenue declined 41 percent to
174.5 billion yen, according to the calculations. Sales missed
the 176.8 billion yen estimated by analysts.  Ken Toyoda , a company spokesman, declined to comment on the
calculations.  Nintendo faces more competition now than when it began
sales of the Wii in 2006. At that time, it was the only major
producer of motion-sensing personal-gaming machines.  Sony Corp. 
and  Microsoft Corp.  plan to introduce their own motion-sensing
accessories for their video-game consoles, while  Apple Inc. ’s
iPhone and iPad devices are increasingly being used for gaming.  Sony  has updated its software to allow PlayStation 3
machines to run games in 3-D, and in June began selling game
titles as well as Bravia televisions capable of showing the
format. PS3 users have to wear special glasses to play 3-D games,
Sony said.  Motion-Sensing Devices  Tokyo-based Sony, whose PlayStation 2 player dominated the
previous generation of game consoles, introduced its motion-
sensing controller, Move, for the PS3 last month to appeal to
casual users and narrow Nintendo’s lead.  Microsoft plans to introduce its Kinect motion-sensing
controller with a free game in November for $150, the company
said in July. The Redmond, Washington-based company plans to
include the product in a $300 package featuring the new, slimmer
Xbox 360 console and the Kinect Adventures game, it said then.  “When you release something and there isn’t anything else,
people will rush to buy it, but that’s not where we are now,”
said Mitsushige Akino, who oversees about $450 million in assets
at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo. Whether
consumers will buy Nintendo’s new player just because it’s in 3-
D remains “an open question,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 