-- Norwegian Energy Co. Considers Sale, Merger to Increase Value of Assets
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-10-28T10:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/noreco-considers-sale-merger-to-boost-asset-value-update2-.html
Norwegian Energy Co. ASA , a
Stavanger-based oil producer, said it’s weighing “strategic
alternatives” including a sale or merger to enhance the value
to shareholders. The shares jumped the most in 18 months.  “I’m not saying we can’t go it alone,” Chief Executive
Officer  Scott Kerr  said in an interview in Oslo today. “We’ve
been successful, but a company’s responsibility is to really
look for ways of showing the values that it has. We’ve sold
assets and delivered results, but there is a disconnect and we
need to look at what other options are there.”  The review may result in no transaction taking place and no
timetable had been set for its completion, Kerr said in a
presentation today. The proposal hasn’t been triggered by an
approach from a third party, nor by a need for refinancing, the
executive said. The company isn’t in discussions with any
buyers, he said in the interview.  “We believe that over the past months, the sales we’ve
had, the performance of the company, has shown that there is a
lot of underlying value in the company’s assets and that
currently is not being reflected in the value that our
shareholders are seeing,” Kerr said at the presentation.  The shares jumped as much as 19 percent to 17.3 kroner in
Oslo after the announcement, the steepest  gain  in intraday
trading since April 15, 2009. They stood at 16.8 kroner as of
12:12 p.m. local time.  Split Business  The stock had dropped 19 percent this year before today’s
announcement, valuing the company at 3.5 billion kroner ($596
million). Noreco owns stakes in more than 50 production and
exploration licenses in Norway, Denmark and the U.K., according
to its  website.   “One possible scenario could be that they split up,”
 Trond Omdal , an analyst at Arctic Securities ASA, said in an
Oslo interview. “The Norwegian portfolio has a lot of
exploration potential, while there might be less interest in the
Danish continental shelf, where Dong Energy A/S and Maersk might
want the whole portfolio.”  Norwegian Energy, or Noreco, last month sold stakes in the
Norwegian oilfields Oselvar and Enoch to Marubeni Corp. for $43
million after tax and said the asset market in Norway had
improved since “the early summer.” Last year it offered to
merge with local competitor Det Norske Oljeselskap ASA, which
rebuffed the invitation to combine with Aker Exploration ASA.  Better Than Stocks  “In the last quarter the market for underlying assets has
been better than the stock market, so we think this is a
positive announcement,” Omdal said. The market for asset sales
“has been completely closed for two years, but now it’s back
and we believe that is the key to re-evaluating the company. As
long as the oil price stays above $75-80 it will encourage
companies ranging from Statoil ASA to mid-sized and independent
companies” to acquire more assets.  Non-Norwegian companies including Marubeni and Centrica Plc
have bought assets offshore Norway this year. Maersk Oil, the
Nordic region’s second-largest producer, has said it is
considering acquisitions in the country. Statoil, Norway’s
biggest producer, has also added to its Norwegian portfolio,
including buying Concedo ASA’s 5 percent stake in the Gygrid
field in May, in which Noreco holds 17.5 percent.  Statoil spokeswoman Jannicke Allers declined to say whether
the company would buy Noreco’s assets. “We’re always open to
opportunities,” she said by phone.  “Lots of companies are interested in Norway,” Kerr said.
“Recent sales have gone to some of the European utilities, so I
think it’s very difficult for us to say today that it is this
company or that company.”  Profit Rises  Noreco today reported third-quarter net income rose to 167
million kroner, or 0.67 krone a share, from a loss of 134
million kroner, or 0.85 krone, a year earlier. Sales climbed 78
percent to 630 million kroner.  The company expects to increase exploration spending in
2011, as it steps up drilling, Kerr said today. Noreco would be
focusing on the Haltenbanken area in the Norwegian Sea and the
southern North Sea next year and would be expanding into the
Barents Sea at the turn of next year, Kerr said.  The oil producer is “fully financed” throughout 2011 to
fund the program, he said. The company is unlikely to sell any
more assets this year, Kerr said.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch and SEB Enskilda AS were
named financial advisers in the process, Noreco said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy@bloomberg.net . 