-- Northrop Navy Ships `Not Survivable' in Combat, Official Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-10-28T12:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/northrop-navy-ships-not-survivable-in-combat-u-s-defense-official-says.html
Northrop Grumman Corp. ’s $1.68
billion amphibious warship, designed to transport Marines close
to shore, wouldn’t be effective in combat and couldn’t operate
reliably after being hit by enemy fire, according to the
Department of Defense’s top testing official.  The San Antonio-class vessel’s critical systems, such as
electrical distribution, ship-wide fiber optics and voice-
communications networks, aren’t reliable, according to  Michael
Gilmore , the Defense Department’s director of operational test
and evaluation. The ship’s armaments can’t effectively defend
against the most modern anti-ship weapons, Gilmore said.  The  ship  is capable of operating “in a benign
environment,” Gilmore said in an e-mail to Bloomberg News
outlining the unclassified summary of a classified report sent
to Congress in June. The vessel is “not effective, suitable and
not survivable in a combat situation,” he said.  The craft’s capabilities are being questioned as at least
four private-equity firms are exploring bids to buy Los Angeles-
based Northrop’s shipbuilding unit.  Northrop Chief Executive Officer  Wes Bush  announced in July
the possible sale or spinoff of the unit that operates three
shipyards in Louisiana, Mississippi and Virginia. Northrop is
the biggest maker of U.S. Navy vessels.  Northrop spokesman  Randy Belote  referred questions about
the department’s test report to the Navy, which said it’s aware
of the reported deficiencies and is making corrections that will
be tested next year.  “The majority of corrective actions have been implemented
across the class and other corrections are in process,” Navy
spokeswoman Lieutenant Callie Ferrari said in an e-mail. “It
would be inappropriate to comment on the specifics.”  Black Eye  The test report is the latest black eye for a program that
has faced reliability and construction questions since the first
of the ships -- the USS San Antonio, also called the LPD-17 --
was delivered in 2005, more than three years behind schedule.  Then-Navy Secretary  Donald Winter , himself a former
Northrop executive, said in July 2007 the company had “serious
quality problems” with the program.  The San Antonio has been undergoing repairs since December
at the Navy’s Norfolk, Virginia, shipyard to make it seaworthy
next year at a cost that’s increased to at least $39 million
from an initial $5 million estimate, said Chris Johnson, a Navy
spokesman.  Northrop’s Avondale, Louisiana, yard has delivered five of
the 11 planned San Antonio-class vessels in the $18.5 billion
program, three of which have been deployed on missions. Four
more are under construction. Contracts for the 10th and 11th
vessels haven’t been signed.  Trade Center Steel  The ships include the USS New York, which was built with
steel from the World Trade Center. The New York’s  website  says
that “self-defense and survivability were crucial elements that
influenced ship design,” because the amphibious transport
vessels are intended to operate close to shore.  The testing office’s Gilmore, asked to define effectiveness
in the context of the LPD-17, Gilmore said it was the “overall
degree” to which the vessel can accomplish its missions when
used by typical sailors in a combat situation.  “Survivability” for the San Antonio means the degree to
which the vessel “is able to avoid or withstand” an attack
“without sustaining an impairment” of its ability to
accomplish a combat mission, he said.  His conclusion that the San Antonio is “not survivable”
doesn’t mean, however, that the hull and structure can’t
withstand a blow from an anti-ship missile due to inherent
weaknesses, Gilmore said. In fact, the Northrop ship’s hull
construction is “improved” in comparison with the four classes
of ships it will replace, he said.  Combat Testing  Gilmore’s conclusions are based on an assessment of data
compiled in combat testing the Navy completed late last year,
“previous reports and raw modeling data,” the Navy said in a
quarterly program report.  Gilmore’s office in August told Pentagon officials the
vessel demonstrated “poor reliability with critical equipment
and control systems,” and an “inability to defend itself
against a variety of threats.”  Navy test data indicated the vessels demonstrated an
inability to “maintain or rapidly recover mission capability”
after being hit by “the variety of weapons likely to be
encountered,” the testing office said.  Raytheon Co.  is a subcontractor providing electronics, a
fiber-optics network and an anti-missile system the testing
office concluded had “persistent engineering deficiencies.”  The ships have 25,000 square feet of deck space -- more
than twice that of the vessels they replace -- and will carry
the V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft, amphibious armored vehicles
used by Marines, landing craft and as many as 800 Marines.  Northrop yesterday raised its projection for 2010 profit to
as much as $7 a share, while analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had
estimated $6.86, on average. In July, the company said annual
earnings would be as much as $6.80 a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  