-- Novartis Wins Challenge Against J&J Over Its French Contact Lens Patent
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-10-28T12:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/novartis-wins-challenge-against-j-j-over-its-french-contact-lens-patent.html
Novartis AG  won an appeals court bid
in Paris to uphold the French portion of its European patent for
extended-wear lenses, defeating claims by  Johnson & Johnson  to
overturn the intellectual-property protection.  The ruling by France’s Court of Appeal yesterday confirms a
March 2009 decision to reject an appeal by J&J and order the New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based maker of Acuvue brand contact lenses
to stop selling the product in France.  “The latest ruling confirms the validity of Novartis’s
patent in France,”  Pierre Veron , the lawyer representing the
Basel, Switzerland-based drugmaker, said by telephone today. J&J
removed its product from the French market last year.  Courts have issued mixed rulings on the dispute since J&J,
the world’s biggest health-products company, started selling
 Acuvue Oasys  lenses in 2005. Judges in the U.S., France and the
Netherlands have backed Novartis’s patent, while courts in the
U.K., Germany and Austria have sided with J&J. Parallel cases
are also pending in Ireland, Italy and Spain.  Novartis, Switzerland’s largest drugmaker, sued J&J in
France in 2007 over claims that the lenses infringed its patent
by using similar chemicals.  J&J spokesman Gary Esterow said the company is disappointed
with yesterday’s ruling in Paris and will appeal.  “We will continue to respect the injunction,” Esterow
said today in an e-mail.  In the U.K. dispute, the Court of Appeal in London upheld a
lower-court ruling and invalidated Novartis’s patent over claims
it was “insufficient.” J&J has appealed its loss in the U.S. A
hearing hasn’t been scheduled, Esterow said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Brussels via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  