-- Obama Approves Rules Restricting Growth at For-Profit Colleges
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2010-10-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/obama-approves-for-profit-college-rules-threatening-apollo-sector-growth.html
The Obama administration approved
regulations restricting incentive-based sales practices at for-
profit colleges. The release of a draft in June slowed
enrollment growth at  Apollo Group Inc. ’s University of Phoenix.  The rules, which will be published today, ban colleges from
paying recruiters based on the number of students they sign up,
establish guidelines for course credits and require schools to
notify the government of new job-training courses, the U.S.
Department of Education said yesterday in a  statement . The
package affects for-profit and nonprofit universities, and is
scheduled to take effect in July.  For-profit colleges changed recruiting practices after the
draft rules were published. Apollo, whose University of Phoenix
is the largest U.S. for-profit college with an enrollment of
470,800, said it eliminated enrollment targets as a component of
recruiters’ pay, often called “incentive compensation.”  “These new rules will help ensure that students are
getting from schools what they pay for: solid preparation for a
good job,” Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  said in a statement.  After Apollo said Oct. 13 that new student enrollment will
fall in the coming year in the changing regulatory environment,
its shares dropped 23 percent and an index of 13 education
companies fell 18 percent.  Apollo Gains  Apollo gained 62 cents, or 1.67 percent, to $37.55
yesterday in NASDAQ Stock Market composite trading. The shares
lost 49 percent in the 12 months ending yesterday.  An  index  of 13 education stocks rose 1.6 percent yesterday.
 DeVry Inc ., based in Downers Grove, Illinois, was the biggest
gainer with its shares rising 7 percent to $45.75 after the
company reported that quarterly net income increased 34 percent.  The department also is telling states to strengthen their
regulations for higher education. The rules call for states to
ensure they have a list of all schools authorized to operate
within their borders and to designate an office where students
can lodge complaints about colleges.  For-profit colleges received $26.5 billion in government
student aid last year, according to the Education Department.
Students at for-profit colleges represent about 11 percent of
all U.S. higher education students, yet they account for 26
percent of all government student loans and 43 percent of loan
defaults, the department said.  ‘Boiler-Room’ Tactics  Officials developed the rules to protect students from
being lured into low-quality programs and burdened with
education debt, Duncan said. Paying recruiters based on the
number of students they enroll encouraged for-profit colleges to
use “boiler-room” pressure tactics on potential applicants,
said  Lauren Asher , president of the Institute for College Access
& Success, an advocacy group in Oakland, California.  The Bush administration softened an earlier ban on
incentive compensation by giving for-profit colleges 12
exceptions, or “safe harbors,” that will be eliminated by the
new rules.  When pay is based on sales, recruiters “pressure students
to sign on the dotted line,” Asher said.  Education companies will need guidance about how to pay
their employees, said  Harris Miller , president of the
Association of Private Sector Colleges and Universities, a
Washington-based industry group.  Misleading Investigators  “It leaves all of higher education in a vacuum,” he said.
“We get that no one can be compensated solely on the basis of
admissions. The question is how do we get to a workable common
ground here without using the courts as a place to decide.”  The U.S. Government Accountability Office found that
recruiters at 15 schools, including those owned by Apollo,
 Washington Post Co. ’s Kaplan education unit, and  Education
Management Corp. , misled undercover investigators about the
costs and quality of programs. Apollo and Kaplan are instituting
free programs allowing applicants to sample classes and degree
programs for a limited time.  Apollo, based in Phoenix, said the number of new students
signing up for degree programs might drop more than 40 percent
this quarter from the year-earlier period as the company
institutes new recruitment practices.  Manny Rivera, a spokesman for Apollo, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the regulations.  Gainful Employment  Capella Education Inc. , based in Minneapolis, said Oct. 26
that enrollment growth will fall as the college toughens
admissions standards with entrance exams.  For-profit colleges lobbied successfully for the Education
Department to delay publication of one rule, called gainful
employment, that ties eligibility for government student aid to
student-loan repayment rates and graduates’ incomes.  The department received more than 90,000 letters regarding
the gainful employment rule, the most ever on a proposed
regulation. Many came from students, staff and teachers at for-
profit colleges.  The agency will hold hearings on the gainful employment
rule Nov. 4 and 5 and plans to issue a final version early next
year for implementation in July 2012, Duncan said.  For-profit and community colleges alike fought a rule that
will require them to gain federal approval for new programs that
offer job-training certificates.  Credit Hours  Community colleges, which offer two-year degrees, already
get extensive guidance on course offerings from their boards and
local businesses, said  David Baime , senior vice president for
government relations and research at the  American Association of
Community Colleges , a Washington-based advocacy group.  The final rule says colleges must notify the department 90
days before instituting new programs and can assume the
department has approved them if they don’t hear back. The rule
also won’t contain a proposal that would have required schools
to project enrollment for new courses over five years.  The new rules include the definition of a credit hour,
which the government will use to determine how much financial
aid students are eligible for. The definition is based on a
measurement known as a Carnegie Unit, and calls for a credit
hour to represent at least one hour of class time and two hours
of homework a week.  The department is using the measurement solely for
financial aid purposes and institutions can set their own
credit-hour standards for academic purposes, James Kvaal, deputy
undersecretary of education, said in a telephone call with
reporters.  The rules will be formally published tomorrow in the
Federal Register.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 