-- Odebrecht to Sell $1.5 Billion of Bonds in Brazil's Biggest Sale in a Year
-- B y   T a t i a n a   B a u t z e r
-- 2010-10-28T20:25:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/odebrecht-oleo-e-gas-to-sell-up-to-1-5-billion-in-bonds.html
Odebrecht SA ’s oil and gas unit
hired banks to sell as much as $1.5 billion in 10-year bonds,
the biggest Brazilian debt offering in a year.  Banco Santander SA , Banco do Brasil SA, Deutsche Bank AG
and HSBC Holdings Plc are managing the sale by  Odebrecht Oleo e
Gas , according to Marco Rabello, the unit’s head of structured
finance. The bond offering is the nation’s largest since
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-controlled producer, sold
$2.5 billion of 10-year bonds and $1.5 billion of 30-year bonds
in October 2009.  Proceeds from the issue will be used to refinance existing
debt related to the construction and operation of two deepwater
drill-ships that have been chartered to Petroleo Brasileiro SA,
Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, Rabello said in a phone
interview from Rio de Janeiro.  “This is the first sizeable project bond issued by a Latin
American company,” Rabello said.  Investor meetings are scheduled for Nov. 1 to Nov. 5 in the
U.S., Europe and Asia, he said. Fitch Ratings will probably rate
the notes BBB, the second-lowest investment grade, the agency
said in an e-mailed statement.  “Project bonds may become a good alternative to reduce
borrowing costs and finance the infrastructure projects’
pipeline in Brazil,” Jansen Moura, a corporate bond analyst
with BCP Securities, said in an interview from Rio de Janeiro.  Odebrecht, a construction and engineering company based in,
Salvador, received a $1.1 billion, 12-year syndicated loan from
19 banks to pay for construction of two drilling rigs earlier
this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tatiana Bautzer  in Sao Paulo at 
 tbautzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  