-- Ohio Republican Portman Set to Win Senate Seat Even as Street Ties Mocked
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2010-10-28T17:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/ohio-republican-portman-set-to-win-senate-seat-even-as-street-ties-mocked.html
On a warm October Friday in
downtown Cleveland, a small crowd of protesters chanted, “Hey,
hey, ho, ho, Wall Street values have got to go.” A man hoisted
a homemade sign saying Corporate America loves  Rob Portman .  Although the sign was meant as a dig against the
Republican candidate for the U.S. Senate, the love affair
doesn’t bother Ohio voters.  Most polls  show the former six-term
congressman from Cincinnati with a commanding lead over
Democrat  Lee Fisher , the state’s lieutenant governor.  A landslide victory on Nov. 2 by Portman would defy the
trend in a year in which Tea Party-backed candidates have put
the Washington establishment on the defensive. Portman, a
former U.S. Trade Representative whose political career began
in the White House, is running in a state that has lost tens of
 thousands of jobs  to foreign competition. And he’s benefited
from donations from corporate interests, including executives
at  American Financial Group Inc.  and  H.J. Heinz Co. , that have
helped him raise more than $16 million.  “Mr. Portman has a lot of IOUs from folks he helped when
he was trade czar,” says  Tim Burga , chief of staff for the
Ohio chapter of the AFL-CIO.  Early on, Portman, 54, focused his campaign on job
creation, depriving Fisher, who oversees Ohio’s economic
development, of ownership of the issue voters say they care
about the most. Portman’s almost $10 million advantage in
campaign cash has also helped, Bloomberg Businessweek reports 
in its Nov. 1 issue.  ‘Prime Role’ Seen  Portman is poised to return to Washington as a proven
dealmaker with close ties to lawmakers in both parties.  “He’ll play a prime role in the U.S. Senate from day
one,” says  Gene Beaupré , a political science professor at
Xavier University in Cincinnati. “Where he goes from there is
just a matter of things lining up correctly.”  Portman, who also served as director of the Office of
Management and Budget, could help shepherd negotiations over
trade deals and in any talks to cut spending or raise taxes to
trim the federal  budget deficit .  That may help explain why U.S. companies are lining up
behind him.  He has raised more than $1.7 million from business
political action committees alone, according to the  Center for
Responsive Politics . He is the top recipient of contributions
from insurance industry employees, with donations exceeding
$575,000, and ranks first in money from commercial bank
employees, with more than $220,000, according to the same data.
He raised an additional $697,000 from employees of securities
and investment firms and more than $1 million from lawyers and
lobbyists.  American Financial  Employees of Cincinnati-based  American Financial Group  and
their families are Portman’s biggest source of donations.
Employees of the firm, which owns insurance and investment
companies, have given Portman more than $125,000. Chairman  Carl H. Lindner , a Republican donor, and his son  Carl H. Lindner III , the company’s co-chief executive officer, each gave
Portman’s campaign the maximum $4,800 donation.  Other supporters include  John Thain , chief executive
officer of New York-based  CIT Group Inc. ;  Walter W. Bettinger II , CEO of San Francisco-based  Charles Schwab Corp. ; and
 William Johnson , CEO of Pittsburgh-based  H.J. Heinz.   Portman, born and raised in Cincinnati, has roots in
business himself. His father started  Portman Equipment , a
forklift dealership, with five workers. The company now employs
350 people in four states, according to its website.  Ties to Bush  After earning an undergraduate degree from Dartmouth
College and a law degree from the University of Michigan,
Portman practiced international trade law at Patton Boggs, a
Washington-based firm with strong political connections. In
1989 he took a job as associate White House counsel under
President  George H.W. Bush  and later served as director of the
Office of Legislative Affairs before making a run for Congress.  During 12 years in the House, Portman wrote legislation to
increase contribution limits on 401(k) plans and expand
pensions offered by small businesses. A member of the tax-
writing Ways and Means Committee, he helped pass the Taxpayer
Bill of Rights and shortened the window on long-term capital
gains from 18 months to 12 months.  Portman served as trade representative, then budget
director under President  George W. Bush . He doesn’t highlight
that part of his résumé in stump speeches, though he’s
benefiting from his Bush family ties. American Crossroads, a
group organized with the help of former Bush political adviser
 Karl Rove , has spent more than $820,000 on Portman’s race.  ‘Trade Means Jobs’  Portman also glosses over his role in marshalling votes
for the Central American Free Trade Agreement.  “Trade means jobs,” he told business leaders at an event
in Columbus, adding that Ohio has boosted exports for the last
eight years and ranks seventh among the exporting states.  His opponents say more than 110,000 Ohioans have lost
their jobs as the result of trade since 2004, according to the
Ohio Jobs & Family Services Department. Since 2000 the state
has lost 400,000 manufacturing jobs, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  