-- Oil Royalty Agency Threatens Fines in Wake of Spill and Corruption Scandal
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2010-10-28T19:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/oil-royalty-agency-threatens-fines-in-spill-and-scandal-s-wake.html
For energy companies, the scariest
thing to emerge from  BP Plc ’s oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico
may be the Office of Natural Resources Revenue, a federal agency
that can levy penalties of hundreds of millions of dollars
rather than the token fines of the past.  The Interior Department has shut the Minerals Management
Service, or MMS, which was faulted for coziness with industry
that bordered on corruption. MMS is being replaced by three new
agencies, the first of which opened for business on Oct. 1 and
collects royalties generated by oil and gas companies drilling
on federal leases. The Denver-based office will track cheats
with a computer algorithm and add auditors to ensure the
government gets every dime it’s owed, said  Gregory J. Gould , the
agency’s new director.  “We’re sending a message to the industry that if you do cut
corners, it’s going to cost you,” Gould said, as reported by
Bloomberg Businessweek in its Nov. 1 issue. “You could quickly
take care of the federal deficit if you use the maximum,”
referring to highest penalties his office can levy.  That’s not a joke to the industry and its lobbyists. Under
President  George W. Bush , whose priority was boosting domestic
energy production, the number of auditors at MMS fell by
30 percent.  “We are worried about an adversarial process,” said
Allison Nyholm, a royalty expert at the  American Petroleum
Institute . “There is huge discretion in the fines. That is
where the rub is going to occur.”  Dysfunctional System  The new office is the Obama administration’s solution to a
dysfunctional royalty collection system that has been plagued
with problems for more than a decade. One MMS manager was cited
in a 2008 Interior Department inspector general’s report for
buying cocaine from subordinates. Whistleblowers claimed
companies were being allowed to skim millions of dollars off
royalty bills.  Gould, 49, a geologist who’s been with Interior since 1981,
was tapped to mop up in 2008, starting with a restructuring of
MMS’s Denver office, the scandal’s epicenter. As oil gushed from
the BP spill this spring, Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  finally
pulled the plug on MMS, which also regulated offshore drilling
and where Gould had once served as chief of the environmental
division.  “That whole environment” that came to light in 2008 is
“100 percent gone,” Gould said.  Some Cheat  Now Gould’s job is to collect some $10 billion a year in
royalties from thousands of on- and offshore oil and gas leases,
the nation’s second-biggest source of revenue after federal
taxes. Energy royalties work much the way income taxes do:
Companies self-report what they owe, and like taxpayers, many
cheat, audits show.  Gould’s agency will get 19 more auditors this year,
bringing the total to 164. The new audit review system uses a
risk-based algorithm, modeled in part on one used by the
Internal Revenue Service, to identify companies most likely to
cheat. Previously, only the biggest companies faced the prospect
of an audit, Gould says.  “By going after only the big companies, small ones knew
they could cut corners,” he said. “This takes that away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Riley  in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  