-- Oil & Natural Gas Profit Misses Analyst Estimates on Dry-Well Provisions
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-10-28T13:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/oil-natural-gas-posts-biggest-profit-in-two-years-on-higher-crude-prices.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. , India’s
biggest energy explorer, missed analyst estimates for second-
quarter profit after unexpectedly increasing provisions for
drilling dry wells.  Net income  rose 6 percent to 53.9 billion rupees ($1.2
billion) in the three months ended Sept. 30 from 50.9 billion
rupees a year earlier, according to a statement sent to the
Bombay Stock Exchange today. The mean  profit estimate  of 17
analysts in a Bloomberg survey was 56.2 billion rupees.  “Usually, the exploration costs and dry well write-offs
increase in the second half of the fiscal year,” Vinay Nair of
Khandwala Securities Ltd. said. The company wrote off 24.4
billion rupees in the quarter compared with 6.5 billion rupees a
year earlier, he said.  ONGC has been drilling more wells to offset declining
production from ageing fields as demand rises in Asia’s second-
biggest energy consumer. The explorer hasn’t started output from
any fields won in auctions that started in 1999 in India, which
imports about 80 percent of its energy requirements.  “It’s about the weather,” Sudhir Vasudeva, director of
offshore services at ONGC, said in New Delhi today. “Drilling
activity increases after the monsoons.”  Depreciation, including depletion, amortization and
impairment loss, rose to 44 billion rupees from 23.6 billion
rupees, according to the statement.  ONGC  shares  have gained 11 percent this year compared with
a 14 percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive Index  of the
Bombay Stock Exchange. The stock rose 0.4 percent to 1,303.85
rupees in Mumbai trading before the earnings were announced.  Oil, Gas Prices  New Delhi-based ONGC sold crude at $62.75 a barrel in the
quarter after giving discounts to state refiners as partial
compensation for selling fuels below cost, an 11 percent
increase from a year earlier.  The government also allowed ONGC to more than double gas
prices to 6,818 rupees per thousand cubic meters in June,
loosening controls as it prepares to sell a stake in the state-
owned producer. The government may raise about $3 billion from
the sale of a 5 percent stake in ONGC, planned by March.  The price increases helped the explorer’s profit to rise to
the highest level in more than two years.  Crude oil in New York gained 12 percent to an average
$76.20 a barrel in the quarter, boosted by demand from India and
China, Asia’s two fastest growing economies. Oil for December
delivery was at $82.32 a barrel at 1:41 p.m. London time on the
New York Mercantile Exchange.  “They sold oil at higher prices and got the full benefit
from the gas price increase,” Nair said before the earnings
were announced. “As long as they sell oil at about $60, they
will comfortably be able to meet all their expenditure plans.”  Subsidy Bill  The explorer’s subsidy burden may ease after the government
freed gasoline prices from state control on June 26 to limit
revenue losses of state-run refiners. Prices of diesel, kerosene
and cooking gas were also raised that day.  Discounts given by ONGC to state refiners rose 15 percent
to 30.2 billion rupees in the quarter from a year earlier,
Finance Director D.K. Sarraf said Oct. 26. The subsidy bill was
55.2 billion rupees in the three months ended June 30.  The explorer had an additional expenditure of 3.2 billion
rupees in the quarter as royalty payment, Chairman R.S. Sharma
told reporters in New Delhi today. ONGC is required by the
government to pay royalty on the entire output from India’s
biggest onshore field, operated by partner  Cairn India Ltd.   Production at the field, which started in August last year,
was ramped up to 125,000 barrels a day of oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 