-- Holocaust Crimes by German Diplomats Exposed, Ending `Cover-Up'
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2010-10-28T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/holocaust-crimes-by-german-diplomats-exposed-in-study-ending-cover-up-.html
Germany’s foreign service played a
bigger role in the Holocaust than previously acknowledged, with
diplomats actively engaged in deporting, dispossessing and
murdering Jews, a study reveals.  The book,  commissioned by  former foreign minister  Joschka Fischer  in 2005, also exposes to what extent the diplomatic
service of the Federal Republic of Germany retained the same
staff when it was set up after the war, and how it sought to
whitewash its activities under Adolf Hitler’s dictatorship. The
book debunks the myth that the Foreign Ministry served as a
center for the resistance.  “The results are a shock,” Fischer told an audience of
about 1,000 at a presentation late yesterday. “This report
shows that the  Foreign Ministry  was part of the Nazis’
extermination machine.”  The book, “ Das Amt und die Vergangenheit: Deutsche
Diplomaten im Dritten Reich und in der Bundesrepublik”  (“The
Ministry and the Past: German Diplomats in the Third Reich and
the Federal Republic”), will from now on be part of the training
syllabus for German diplomats, the current minister,  Guido Westerwelle , said in a speech yesterday.  The contributing historians -- Eckart Conze, Norbert Frei,
Peter Hayes and Moshe Zimmermann -- gained access to files that
were previously secret. Before their study, the Foreign Ministry
had “covered up facts” and “maintained an extremely
restrictive archive policy,” the historians write.  “German foreign policy makers made ‘resolving the Jewish
question’ and then ‘the final solution’ their task; putting it
into action became part of the remit of German diplomats across
Europe,” the historians write.  Contact With Himmler  They describe contacts between the Foreign Ministry and
Heinrich Himmler’s Reichssicherheitshauptamt, the center of Nazi
terror, as “fluid.” The R.S.H.A. sent regular reports to the
ministry during the war, informing it in detail about the number
of Jews killed by SS death squads in Eastern Europe.  As early as 1933, diplomats’ training included a reception
with  Hitler  in his Alpine retreat and a visit to the Dachau
concentration camp. The ministry organized the expulsion of
thousands of Jews and opponents of the Nazi regime --  Willy Brandt ,  Albert Einstein  and  Thomas Mann  among them.  Franz Rademacher, the ministry official responsible for
implementing Hitler’s anti-Semitic policies, traveled to Serbia
in 1941. On his expense claim, accessible to everyone in the
ministry’s accounts department, he described the reason for his
trip as “liquidation of Jews in Belgrade.”  Wannsee Conference  The ministry was represented by its state secretary Martin
Luther at the 1942 Wannsee conference, which paved the way for
the murder of the Jews in the death camps. The only minutes of
the conference found after 1945 were in the Foreign Ministry’s
files.  “When war breaks out, the role of the diplomatic service
disappears,” Conze said at the presentation. “So diplomats
were seeking tasks, and they turned to the central project of
the Nazis: The persecution and extermination of the Jews.”  When the Federal Republic of Germany established its
Foreign Ministry in 1951, 40 percent of the diplomats in high
office were former members of the Nazi Party. These included
Ernst Kutscher, whose job description in 1944 was “anti-Jewish
action abroad.” He worked as a diplomat in Paris in the 1960s
and continued his career in Brussels.  Stigmatized as Traitor  Yet Fritz Kolbe, who refused to join the Nazi Party and
secretly passed documents to the U.S. beginning in 1943, was
stigmatized as a traitor after the war and denied work as a
diplomat. The ministry has only honored Kolbe’s resistance since
2004, naming a hall in its Berlin headquarters after him.  As late as 1979, a Foreign Ministry brochure said it
“provided persistent opposition that succeeded in stalling the
Nazi government’s plans, without being able to prevent the
worst.”  That was a myth “cultivated over decades,” the historians
conclude. Those who were part of the resistance -- such as
Gerhard Feine, a diplomat in Budapest who helped many Hungarian
Jews escape deportation to the death camps -- were “outsiders”
working individually, they write.  War Crimes  It was the curriculum vitae of Franz Nuesslein that
prompted Fischer to address the way the Foreign Ministry dealt
with its past. As a prosecutor in occupied Czech territories
during World War II, Nuesslein approved hundreds of death
sentences against Czech citizens, and was sentenced to 20 years
in jail for war crimes in 1948. In 1955, he used his connections
to secure a post in the West German diplomatic corps. He ended
his career in 1974 as Consul General in Barcelona.  After his death, the Foreign Ministry published a
flattering tribute in its magazine. It was brought to Fischer’s
attention by a reader, Marga Henseler, who was outraged that a
war criminal could receive such an honor.  After that, Fischer decreed that diplomats with a Nazi past
should no longer receive an obituary, and later commissioned the
historical study.  “Das Amt und die Vergangenheit” is published by Karl
Blessing Verlag in Germany.  ( Catherine Hickley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 