-- Olympic Champion Vonn Seeks More U.S. Ski Races to Market Sport
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-10-28T00:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/olympic-champion-vonn-seeks-more-u-s-skiing-events-to-help-market-sport.html
Olympic downhill champion  Lindsey Vonn  is calling for more ski races to be held in the U.S. to
boost the sport in between Winter Games.  “The U.S. market is not used enough,” Vonn, the most
successful female skier in U.S. history, said in an interview at
the start of the World Cup season in  Soelden, Austria , on Oct.
21. “It’s such a big market. If we had one or two more races,
we could really expand that, and it would make ski racing so
much more popular.”  American skiers and snowboarders won a record 21 medals at
the  Vancouver Winter Olympics  in February, including six golds.
Yet, U.S. fans can only see their top athletes in live action in
two races in Colorado, with  Aspen  hosting a women’s World Cup
event next month while the men will be in  Beaver Creek  in
December.  Lake Louise  in Alberta, Canada, will also host World
Cup races for both men and women. The rest of the 39 women’s
competitions, and the 40 men’s races, are held in Europe.  After winning the  Olympic downhill  and gaining a bronze in
the Super-G, Vonn had a small role on NBC’s  Law & Order 
television show, went to the White House, and opened trading on
the Nasdaq stock market. The 26-year-old has eight corporate
sponsorship deals, endorsing Red Bull GmbH, Rolex Group,
sportswear producer  Under Armour Inc.  and  Procter & Gamble Co. ,
the world’s biggest consumer-products maker.  ‘Wrong Timing’  Although interest in the sport is increasing, more U.S.-
based events would boost television ratings,  Julia Mancuso , a
double silver medalist in Vancouver, said in an interview.
Mancuso finished 12th in the giant slalom in Soelden, which was
won by Germany’s  Viktoria Rebensburg .  “Everyone wants live sports and we can’t necessarily do
that in the U.S. because it’s the wrong timing,” said Mancuso,
the 2006 Olympic giant slalom champion. “It’s hard to ever get
the same exact bit of buzz that they get over here in Europe.
But I definitely think it has improved, and people have become
more interested.”  This season’s World Cup races and the World Championships
in Germany in February will be shown on NBC’s  Universal Sports 
cable channel, which reaches 57 million American homes. NBC,
which reaches 99 percent of all U.S. households with television
sets, will broadcast the women’s giant slalom in Aspen and the
downhill in Beaver Creek.  Some 16 million Americans participate in skiing and
snowboarding, according to the  U.S. Ski and Snowboard
Association  (USSA). The U.S. ski industry had revenue of $2.6
billion last year, according to Los Angeles-based research
company IBISWorld.  Location Problems  Gian Franco Kasper , president of the Oberhofen,
Switzerland-based  International Ski Federation  (FIS), said in an
interview that the governing body wants to add events in the
U.S. but that practical issues are preventing it from doing so.  “We asked the U.S. Ski Association and also the Canadians
to have more races on the East Coast,” said Kasper, who is also
a member of the  International Olympic Committee . “We are now
more or less completely in the West. They unfortunately, for the
time being, cannot find any organizers on the East Coast.”  Some private owners of U.S. resorts don’t want to close
down their ski courses for a world cup race, while there isn’t a
“public interest” in showing a lot of ski racing among the big
American broadcasters, Kasper said.  USSA spokesman  Tom Kelly  said the American group is focused
on improving the current events, rather than adding races.  Championship Catalyst  Winning the bid to host the 2015 World Championships in
Vail, Colorado, may work as “a catalyst to build more
recognition for our heroes in the U.S.,” Kelly said.  U.S. ski racers Vonn, Mancuso and  Bode Miller  -- who won
gold, silver and bronze in Vancouver -- “transcend their sport
and they actually are almost a lifestyle brand,”  Andrew Judelson , chief revenue and marketing officer at the Park City,
Utah-based USSA, said in an interview.  “We need to leverage those athletes to create interest
not only with active fans of ski racing, but with the general
consumer,” said Judelson, a former National Hockey League
executive who joined the USSA this year in a new post partly
aimed at boosting interest in snow sports in between Winter
Games.  Vonn, who will next race in Levi, Finland, on Nov. 13, said
skiing needs to promote its young athletes similarly to how the
men’s and women’s tennis organizations do on their global tours.  “We have great characters in our sport and we should use
that better,” said Vonn, who finished 18th on the Rettenbach
glacier in Soelden. “You can build the stories and build the
characters, and then everyone can follow. Everyone has their
person that they like, and they want to know more about them.
There should be more marketing and interaction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in Soelden, Austria, through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  