-- Tom Cruise Takes on ‘Mission Impossible’ to Boost Dubai Economy
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2010-10-28T13:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/tom-cruise-takes-on-mission-impossible-to-boost-struggling-dubai-economy.html
Tom Cruise ’s visit to Dubai to film
“Mission Impossible IV: Ghost Protocol” will provide a boost
to the indebted city’s economy as it seeks to reap the benefits
of high visibility in the film industry.  “Twenty years ago you’d read articles about what people
are raising money to make movies and what movies are getting
made into videos, now you read about a new tax incentive or
rebate or some new structure to entice filmmakers to new
places,” Executive Producer  Jeffrey Chernov  said in an
interview in Dubai today. “With Mission Impossible being here,
many more films will follow.”  Persian Gulf nations are using their oil wealth to attract
art, music and film, replacing Arab cities such as Cairo and
Beirut as regional ambassadors for culture and entertainment.
Dubai hosts film and art festivals, while neighbor Abu Dhabi is
building the Louvre and Guggenheim museums and producing films
through Abu Dhabi Media Co.  Dubai roiled global markets in November after one of its
three main state-owned business groups Dubai World sought to
delay repaying loans, sparking a plunge in developing-nation
stocks and the largest increase in emerging-market bond yields
over U.S. Treasuries in four weeks. The company secured approval
from all creditors for its $24.9 billion debt restructuring
plan, a company official said yesterday.  ‘Beautiful City’  “This is a beautiful city, it’s very cinematic,” Cruise
said at a press conference in the Armani Hotel in Dubai today.
“The geography is important for these kinds of pictures.”  New Zealand’s government reached an agreement with Warner
Bros. Productions Ltd. to keep the filming of two movies based
on “The Hobbit” in the country, Prime Minister  John Key  said
yesterday. The country wants the two-film prequel to the “Lord
of the Rings” trilogy made in the country to help boost a
sluggish economic recovery. Hiring crew and equipment for the
original series added about NZ$350 million ($261 million) to the
economy in a three-year period to March 2002, and boosted
tourism as fans flocked to locations where Frodo battled Orcs in
a recreation of Tolkien’s Middle Earth.  Paramount Pictures will make “Mission Impossible IV,”
bringing back 48 year-old Cruise after he was fired by the
studio in 2006 and publicly criticized by  Sumner Redstone ,
chairman of parent  Viacom Inc.  Redstone told the Wall Street
Journal at the time the studio terminated the 14-year
association because of the actor’s conduct, including promoting
Scientology and criticizing anti-depressants.  The first three “Mission Impossible” movies have grossed
$2 billion worldwide, Paramount said in a statement today. The
fourth film, whose actors include  Jeremy Renner  from “The Hurt
Locker” and “Slumdog Millionaire” star  Anil Kapoor , will also
be shot in Moscow and Vancouver and be released in December
2011, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Dubai 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  