-- London Mayor Warns of `Kosovo-Style' Cleansing Over Housing
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-10-28T13:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/london-mayor-warns-of-kosovo-style-social-cleansing-if-housing-aid-cut.html
London Mayor  Boris Johnson  said he
is not prepared to accept “Kosovo-style social cleansing” of
the capital as a result of the government’s planned changes to
housing benefits.  Johnson, who will run again for mayor for the Conservative
Party in 2012, expressed concern about the possible effects on
the city of Conservative Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s plans to
reduce social-housing subsidies, a step that may force people on
low incomes to move to areas where rents are cheaper.  “The last thing we want to have in our city is a situation
such as Paris where the less well-off are pushed out to the
suburbs,” Johnson told BBC London today. “What we will not see
and we will not accept is any kind of Kosovo-style social
cleansing of London.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said on Oct. 4
that total  benefit payments  to any household will be capped at
the median take-home pay for working households of about 500
pounds ($800) a week, starting in 2013. The welfare bill is
being slashed as the government attempts to narrow its record
budget deficit.  London Councils , the umbrella group for London’s 33 local
authorities, estimates that as many as 82,000 households in the
capital will become homeless as a result of the cuts. Cameron’s
spokesman,  Steve Field , told reporters yesterday that the
government estimates the cap will affect 21,000 benefit
claimants, 17,000 of whom are in London.  ‘Does Not Agree’  “The prime minister does not agree with what Boris Johnson
has said or indeed the way he said it,” Field told reporters in
London today. The premier “thinks the policy is the right one
and he doesn’t agree with the way he chose his words.”  Johnson is not the first lawmaker to express concern about
the impact of the planned housing benefit changes. The Liberal
Democrat deputy leader,  Simon Hughes , told Channel 4 television
on Oct. 24 that many of his colleagues oppose plans to reduce
social-housing subsidies. The Conservatives depend on the
Liberal Democrats for their majority in the House of Commons.  The leader of the opposition Labour Party,  Ed Miliband ,
used the weekly question-and-answer session with the premier in
the House of Commons yesterday to taunt Hughes and Liberal
Democrat leader  Nick Clegg , the deputy prime minister,
describing them as “glum” and “glummer” over the planned
changes.  Speaking of Clegg, Miliband told lawmakers, “No wonder he
looks glummer. No wonder he’s back on the fags,” a reference to
a confession by the deputy premier on a radio show Oct. 24 that
he smokes.  “I’ll emphatically resist any attempt to recreate a London
where the rich and poor cannot live together,” Johnson said
today. “People will always cry and say that I am at war with
David Cameron and try and get a headline out of that, but the
fact is we are in detailed negotiations” with the Department of
Work and Pensions, which oversees benefits.  “On my watch, you are not going to see thousands of
families evicted from the place where they have been living and
have put down roots,” Johnson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 