-- Lone Texas Voter to Decide Water Bonds Sale for Clayton Williams' Land
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2010-10-28T21:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/lone-texas-voter-to-decide-water-bonds-sale-for-clayton-williams-land.html
A lone west Texas voter will decide
whether to create a water district for a company owned by his
boss, oilman  Clayton Williams Jr ., and issue $375 million of
debt, the fifth-largest bond measure on the Nov. 2 ballot.  A company owned by Williams, Fort Stockton Holdings, is
seeking to create the Midland County Fresh Water Supply District
on property 11 miles (18 kilometers) west of the city of the
same name, according to documents filed with Midland County.  The question  of whether to create the district and give it
the authority to borrow $375 million will be decided by the
district’s only resident and voter, Ryan Latham, said Ruth
Sloan, Midland County’s elections administrator. Latham didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  “They’re proposing to create a water district,” said
Sloan. “If that one voter agrees to creation of the water
district, the district will be formed.”  Latham is the caretaker for the company’s property in the
district, said Katie Hiatt, Fort Stockton spokeswoman with
Spaeth Communications Inc. in Dallas. The district plans to
issue revenue bonds when it has contracts to sell water to end
users, she said.  Reselling a Resource  “The area needs another long-term, stable water supply
solution to foster anticipated growth,” said Hiatt. “The
purpose of the district is to purchase water which can be resold
to industrial and commercial end users in west Texas.”  Fort Stockton Holdings has requested a permit to extract
and transport 47,000 acre-feet of water a year to the Midland
district from the  Middle Pecos Groundwater Conservation
District , said Paul Weatherby, general manager of the Pecos
District, which is in the town of Fort Stockton, about 120 miles
southwest of Midland. An acre foot is equal to 325,851 gallons
(1.2 million liters).  The company already has permits to extract the water for
agricultural use, said Hiatt. The new permits would let it ship
water to surrounding areas, she said.  “They haven’t yet received a permit,” said Weatherby,
adding that it will be up to the Pecos district’s 11-member
board, which will consider it in January.  Voters in U.S. states and municipalities will consider
$17.5 billion of municipal bonds Nov. 2, the lowest general-
election amount in a congressional year since $16.6 billion in
1996, Thomson Reuters data shows. The largest issue this year is
$997 million of authorization sought in Alaska.  Williams, 79, ran for governor of Texas as a Republican in
1990, losing to Democrat  Ann Richards , who served one term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  