-- Money Manager Chimay Charged With More Counts Tied to Alleged Ponzi Scheme
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-10-28T21:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/money-manager-chimay-charged-with-more-counts-tied-to-alleged-ponzi-scheme.html
New York money manager  Guy de Chimay , who pleaded not guilty in June to charges that he stole
millions of dollars in client funds, was accused of stealing
another $690,000.  Chimay, chairman and chief investment officer of Chimay
Capital Management Inc., appeared in New York state Supreme
Court in Manhattan for arraignment on the new charges that
included four counts of grand larceny and two of securities
fraud. Judge  Gregory Carro  set bail at $1 million on the new
charges after another judge earlier today set the same amount on
the old ones.  Chimay, who claims to be related to European royalty, is
accused of running a Ponzi scheme that took almost $7 million
from several victims, according to the Manhattan district
attorney’s office. He used the money to pay credit card bills,
rent on a summer home in the Hamptons section of Long Island,
his mortgage, and to redeem investor draws from his hedge fund.  “Instead of using this money for any investment, he used
this for a personal piggy bank,” Manhattan Assistant District
Attorney Aaron Wolfson told Carro. The new indictment shows that
Chimay “violated the trust of a friend of his for more than a
decade,” he said.  Martin Edelman , Chimay’s attorney, has said his client
denies committing any fraud.  Forgery, Larceny  The ex-money manager was initially charged with grand
larceny, attempted grand larceny, forgery, criminal possession
of a forged instrument and a felony violation of general
business law. If convicted of the top count of grand larceny, he
faces as much as 25 years in prison.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission separately sued
Chimay June 11, alleging he and his firm pushed investments he
claimed were tied to the Chimay royal family of Belgium. Chimay
Capital claimed to be the U.S. investment arm of the royal
family based in the Belgium’s Chimay region and dating to the
14th century, according to the SEC.  The SEC also obtained an emergency court order to freeze
the assets of Chimay and his firm.  Chimay solicited money from October 2008 to September 2009
for a bridge facility that he said would make lucrative short-
term loans to firms with ties to the Belgian royal family, the
SEC said in its  complaint . There is no evidence that any loans
were made and some funds were used to pay off disgruntled
investors in Chimay’s other business ventures, the agency said.  In December, Chimay sought a multimillion-dollar loan,
falsely claiming he had $14 million in liquid assets in a
Bermuda bank account to serve as collateral, the SEC said. In
reality, the account was empty, the agency said.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Chimay Capital Management Inc., 10-cv-04582, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  The criminal case is People v. Chimay, New York state
Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 