-- Hong Kong Taps China Swap Deal After Banks Burn Through 2010 Yuan Quota
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-10-29T05:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/hong-kong-s-annual-yuan-quota-for-trade-settlement-is-depleted-hkma-says.html
The Hong Kong Monetary Authority was
forced to tap its yuan swap arrangement with the People’s Bank
of China after demand for trade settlement using the currency
exceeded expectations.  The Authority plans to draw 10 billion yuan ($1.5 billion)
through the arrangement, out of the annual maximum of 200
billion yuan, Deputy Chief Executive  Arthur Yuen  told reporters
in Hong Kong yesterday. Banks which don’t have any renminbi and
need to satisfy immediate customer trade transactions may turn
to the HKMA, according to a central bank statement.  “This implies that demand for yuan rose very sharply in
the last few weeks and supply is not keeping up,” said Mirza
Baig, a Singapore-based currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG,
the world’s largest foreign-exchange trader. “This may result
in some scarcity of the yuan in Hong Kong and to ease that
scarcity, the HKMA has tapped the swap facility.”  Demand for the yuan is growing overseas as China’s economy
expands at a 9.6 percent pace and Premier  Wen Jiabao  promotes
the currency’s role in international trade and finance.
Investors and companies pay more to obtain yuan in Hong Kong
than on the mainland, taking advantage of the city’s looser
restrictions to bet on currency appreciation.  The yuan rose 0.15 percent to 6.6775 per dollar in Shanghai
at 12:49 p.m., according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. The indicated rate in the offshore market gained 0.8
percent to 6.5755 per dollar and was 1.6 percent stronger than
the onshore rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Currency Speculation  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards  rose 0.4 percent to
6.4503, reflecting bets the currency will strengthen 3.4 percent
from the onshore spot rate. The HKMA warned banks to follow
rules on conversion, which are designed to limit currency
speculation.  “I would like to remind participating authorized
institutions of the need to conduct appropriate due-diligent
procedures when handling conversions of renminbi for
customers,” Yuen said in the statement yesterday.  An 8 billion yuan quota assigned to the yuan clearing bank
for trade settlement was only half-used on Sept. 30, so
authorities were taken by surprise when demand surged in
October, Monetary Authority Deputy Chief Executive  Peter Pang 
said at the press conference. The Bank of China (Hong Kong) Ltd.
is the clearing bank for yuan settlement in the city.  “The very rapid rise in yuan demand is probably also
motivated by expectations of renminbi appreciation,” Deutsche
Bank’s Baig said.  Cross-Border Trade  Cross-border trade using China’s currency more than doubled
to 48.7 billion yuan in the second quarter from the first,
according to data from the Chinese central bank.  Hong Kong’s  exports  to China increased by 36 percent in
August from a year earlier, the fastest pace since 1992, before
easing to a 24.1 percent rise in September, official data show.  “There’s been rapid growth in the cross-border trade
settlements in yuan in the past few months,” Hong Kong
Secretary for Financial Services and the Treasury K.C. Chan said
today at a conference in the city. “This shows the development
of our cross-border trade settlements in yuan is good and fast.
We are happy to see it.”  The Hong Kong central bank “can fully cope with the
demand,” as the swap line has been activated, Chan said, adding
that the HKMA will likely discuss the insufficient yuan quota
with the People’s Bank of China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Lui in Singapore at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net 
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net 
Joshua Fellman at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net  