-- SAP Won’t Contest Oracle Infringement Claims at Trial
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-10-28T23:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/oracle-says-sap-won-t-contest-infringement-claims-from-software-download.html
SAP AG  won’t contest  Oracle Corp. ’s
claims that it contributed to copyright infringement by a now-
defunct unit being sued for improperly downloading Oracle
software, the companies said in court filings.  SAP  lawyers  told Oracle in an e-mail yesterday about its
decision and plans to ask the judge presiding over the case to
shorten the trial, scheduled to begin Nov. 1, Oracle said in a
filing today in federal court in Oakland, California. Oracle,
which is seeking billions in damages, said it needs to revise
its trial plans and asked the judge to postpone the trial until
Nov. 4.  SAP previously said its TomorrowNow software maintenance
unit was liable for its conduct and SAP, while it owned the
company, didn’t cause or contribute to the infringement,
according to an Aug. 27 court filing.  “We are electing not to contest the claim for contributory
copyright infringement,” Greg Lanier, SAP’s attorney, said in
an e-mail contained in the court filing. The decision will allow
the trial to be “substantially shortened and focused,” Lanier
said in a letter to the judge today.  Oracle sued SAP in 2007.  SAP , based in Walldorf, Germany,
and Redwood City, California-based  Oracle  are the No. 1 and No.
2 makers of software for business tasks such as managing
accounting, human resources and inventory.  ‘Harass’ Competitors  “The point is that Oracle plainly intends to use weeks of
trial to harass its competitors, whether they are parties to the
case or not,” Lanier said in his letter to the judge. “There
is simply no other reason to address contributory infringement
at trial, because its resolution will not affect damages by one
penny.”  Lanier didn’t return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  Oracle has said it may call SAP executives, including
former Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker , to testify at the
trial, court documents show. Apotheker, who was on SAP’s board
when it bought TomorrowNow in 2005, was named CEO of Oracle
rival  Hewlett-Packard Co.  on Sept. 30.  “The evidence at trial will show that the SAP Board of
Directors valued Oracle’s copyrighted software so highly, they
were willing to steal it rather than compete fairly,”  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, said today in an e-mailed
statement.  SAP said in 2007 after the lawsuit was filed that
TomorrowNow made “inappropriate” downloads of support
documents from Oracle and that SAP didn’t have access to Oracle
materials. SAP said in July 2008 that it would close the Bryan,
Texas-based unit.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco federal court at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 