-- Motorola Rises Most in Two Months as Profit Tops Estimates on Droid Phones
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-10-28T14:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/motorola-rises-most-in-two-months-as-profit-tops-estimates.html
Motorola Inc. , the U.S. mobile-phone
maker, climbed the most in more than two months after third-
quarter earnings topped analysts’ estimates and revenue
increased for the first time in almost four years.  Profit, excluding some costs, was 16 cents a share, the
company said today, beating the average analyst’s estimate of 11
cents based upon a Bloomberg survey. Revenue rose to $5.8
billion from 5.4 billion, compared with the $5.66 billion
estimate, the first year-over-year revenue increase since the
fourth quarter of 2006.  Co-Chief Executive Officer  Sanjay Jha ’s focus on Google
Inc.’s Android operating system is paying dividends as the
software catches on with customers. This year, Android passed
 Apple Inc. ’s iPhone to become the most popular smartphone
standard among new U.S. buyers, according to Nielsen Co.,
helping drive sales of Motorola’s line of Droid phones.  “He bet on Android two years ago when it was still a risky
platform,” said  Matt Thornton , an analyst at Avian Securities
LLC in Boston, who has a “neutral” rating on the stock. “He
made the right choices. So far, he’s been excellent.”  Motorola , based in Schaumburg, Illinois, rose 54 cents, or
6.7 percent, to $8.63 at 10:05 a.m. on the New York Stock
Exchange, after climbing as much as 6.9 percent. The stock had
gained 4.3 percent this year before today.  Motorola’s net income rose to $109 million, or 5 cents a
share, from $12 million, or 1 cent a share, the company said.  Mobile-Phone Improvements  Sales from its handset business climbed 20 percent to $2
billion last quarter, helping to narrow its loss to $43 million
from $216 million a year earlier. The division had an operating
profit, excluding some charges, of $3 million.  Motorola  said it
shipped 3.8 million smartphones last quarter, beating Thornton’s
estimate of 3.6 million units.  Jha told analysts on a conference call that he sees overall
phone shipments this year at the upper end of the company’s
target of 12 million to 14 million devices.  The mobile devices business “is back in the black and well
set to form an independent company” next year, said  Pierre Ferragu , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in London, who
has an ‘outperform” rating on the stock.  Jha , hired in August 2008 to reverse a phone sales slump,
has said he expects the unit to turn a profit in the fourth
quarter, allowing the company to spin off the phone unit and the
division that makes cable TV set-top boxes in the first quarter
of 2011. Co-CEO  Greg Brown  said on a conference call with
analysts today the company continues to plan for the separation
sometime in the first quarter.  22 New Phones  “I see the job of transforming this organization is half
done,” Jha told analysts on the conference call. So far,
however, Jha said he feels “pretty comfortable” with the
feedback from customers, noting Motorola has introduced 22 new
phones this year.  As rivals including  Research In Motion Ltd.  prepare tablet
computers to compete with  Apple Inc. ’s iPad, Jha said Motorola
is “engaged” in the tablet space without giving details. He
said it’s not clear whether Gingerbread, the latest version of
the Android operating system, is the right platform for a
tablet. Motorola is aiming to introduce a tablet early next
year, Jha said at a conference in San Francisco in September.  Profit, excluding certain items, will be 14 cents to 16
cents a share this quarter, the company said. That compares with
the average estimate of 15 cents per share, according to
Bloomberg’s survey of analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 