-- House Emanuel Built Showing Weak Spots Four Years After Election Triumph
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-10-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/house-emanuel-built-showing-weak-spots-four-years-after-election-triumph.html
Steve Kagen  helped Democrats regain
control of the U.S. House for the first time since  Newt Gingrich ’s 1994 Republican Revolution by winning a political
swing district in northeastern Wisconsin.  He was part of the House that  Rahm Emanuel  built in 2006
when the then-congressman led their party in seizing 30
Republican seats. While Emanuel has returned home to plan a run
for mayor of Chicago, Kagen is running for his political life.  “We stood up at the time when it didn’t look at all
possible for us to win election or to lead the country,” said
Kagen, who is  ranked  by political handicappers as one of the
most vulnerable House incumbents. “We have really changed the
direction of the country.”  The trouble for Kagen and other alumni of the Democratic
class of 2006 is that polls indicate it isn’t the direction they
intended. Two-thirds of the 27 seats Democrats still hold that
were grabbed four years ago are competitive amid an environment
where analysts are  predicting  a Republican takeover of the House
in the Nov. 2 midterm elections.  “A lot of these districts are actually majority
Republican,” said  Karen Price , a filmmaker who produced a
documentary called “ HouseQuake ” about Emanuel’s success.
“These are volatile districts to begin with, and there are only
so many that are viable for Democrats.”  Centrist Recruits  Emanuel, 50, praised his recruits for their votes on the
economy, health care and other issues he helped push through
Congress as President  Barack Obama ’s chief of staff. He also put
the responsibility on them to make their case for re-election.  “I think they have done important things for this country,
important things for their constituents,” Emanuel said
yesterday while greeting commuters at a train station in
downtown Chicago. “But like every election, it’s about making
sure people know your record, what you’ve done on their behalf.”  Emanuel, who resigned his White House post Oct. 1, led the
 Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee  in 2006 when it won
a House majority of 233-202. He recruited candidates such as
Kagen with centrist views and those with military or law
enforcement experience to counter any notion of softness on
national security following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  Kagen, 60, is in a tight contest against Republican  Reid
Ribble , a former roofing contractor and first-time candidate.
The race is  rated  as leaning Republican by the Cook Political
Report and as a tossup or tilt Republican by the Rothenberg
Political Report, both nonpartisan and based in Washington.  Unpopular Votes  Kagen supported both Obama’s stimulus package and his
health-care overhaul -- two initiatives that polls show have
been unpopular among Republicans and some independent voters.  Emanuel was credited in 2006 with helping Democrats win 30
seats previously held by Republicans, who regained three of them
two years later.  Of the remaining 27 seats, Cook ranks just one as being
solidly safe for Democrats: Representative  Joe Courtney  of
Connecticut. Fourteen of the seats are rated as toss ups, while
four are rated as either leaning or likely Republican. Cook
rates the remainder as leaning or likely Democratic.  “Their bad policies have caught up to them,” Ribble, 54,
said in an interview after speaking to a group of doctors at a
Green Bay country club. “The way they governed has caught up to
them, and the way they’ve campaigned has caught up to them.”  Swing Country  Wisconsin’s 8th Congressional District is home to many
working-class voters employed at companies such as  Kimberly-
Clark Corp. , the Dallas-based paper product manufacturer. The
district went for  George W. Bush  in 2000 and 2004, while backing
Obama two years ago.  The race here is like dozens of others in swing districts
across the U.S. as Democrats confront an economy that isn’t
recovering fast enough to reduce unemployment.  The Green Bay metropolitan statistical area had an
unemployment  rate  of 7.2 percent in August, the most recent
figure available, lower than the  Wisconsin  average of 7.8
percent in September and the national average of 9.6 percent in
September.  Kagen, a medical doctor who founded a chain of allergy
clinics, won 51 percent of the vote in 2006, after spending $3.2
million on the race, including $2.6 million of his own money. In
2008, when Obama won Wisconsin by 14 percentage points, Kagen
received 54 percent to 46 percent of the vote.  Two of Kagen’s Washington roommates, also members of the
class of 2006, are facing their own competitive re-election
battles.  Bruce Braley  of Iowa and  Ed Perlmutter  of Colorado are
rated by Cook as being in races that lean Democratic. Still,
Braley is considered vulnerable enough that Vice President  Joe Biden  plans to  visit  his district tomorrow.  Return to Washington  Kagen played down the possibility that a sizable number of
his classmates may not return to Washington next year.  “I haven’t paid any attention to the ratings,” he said.
“I’m focused like a laser on my district, and I know that my
classmates of 2006 are doing the same thing.”  Kagen said he decided on his own to run in 2006 and wasn’t
recruited by Emanuel.  “He invested in our race,” he said. “I met with him. He
got to know my character. I stepped up, and he supported me.”  On Oct. 19, Emanuel made a fundraising  solicitation  for
House Democrats.  “I’ve been looking at the polls and I don’t see a single
reason why Democrats can’t retain our strong House majority with
enough support,” he wrote.  Price, the filmmaker, whose father is Democratic
Representative  David Price  of North Carolina, predicted that
Emanuel will take it in stride if members of the class of 2006
suffer heavy losses.  “He’s a pragmatic guy,” she said. “He took this on
knowing that this was not going to be easy, and these were seats
that were tough territory for either party.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Green Bay, Wisconsin, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  