-- Movie Gallery Liquidation Plan Wins Court Approval
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2010-10-28T21:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/movie-gallery-video-chain-wins-bankruptcy-court-approval-for-liquidation.html
Movie Gallery Inc. , the video-rental
chain that began shuttering stores in February, won a bankruptcy
court’s approval of a liquidation plan that will wipe out
 shareholder  value.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Douglas O. Tice Jr.  approved the plan
today at a hearing in Richmond, Virginia. Under the Chapter 11
plan filed July 1, general unsecured creditors will receive a
pro rata share of a $5 million liquidating trust. All remaining
assets will be transferred to certain secured creditors, court
papers show.  “Those secured creditors will collectively allow $5 million
to be funded from their collateral to the unsecured trust and
waive hundreds of millions of dollars in deficiency claims so
that a distribution could be made to the debtors’ unsecured
creditors,” Movie Gallery attorneys said in court papers.  Movie Gallery  sought bankruptcy protection on Feb. 2, the
second time since 2007, and subsequently closed all of about
2,600 stores. The Dothan, Alabama-based chain, which is
liquidating the last 1,028 locations, got approval in July to
sell warehouse inventory.  The company first sought protection in October 2007 after
two years of losses in the face of increased competition from
 Netflix Inc. , which rents movies by mail, and Coinstar Inc.’s
Redbox DVD-rental kiosks. Blockbuster Inc., the world’s biggest
movie-rental company, filed for bankruptcy protection in New
York last month.  The company listed  debt  of $500 million to $1 billion and
assets of as much as $50 million in Chapter 11 documents.  The case is In re Movie Gallery Inc., 10-30696, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 