-- Oxford University Warns of Funding Shortfall in U.K. Fees Plan
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2010-10-28T12:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/oxford-university-warns-of-possible-funding-shortfall-under-u-k-fees-plan.html
The vice-chancellor of  Oxford
University , the oldest in the English-speaking world, said U.K.
government plans to change the way higher education is financed
may leave the institution with a funding shortfall.  A review published Oct. 12 by  John Browne , the former chief
executive officer of BP Plc, rejected the option of a graduate
tax and proposed ending the current cap on tuition fees.
Business Secretary  Vince Cable , who oversees universities, said
the government “endorses the main thrust” of the report,
though he told Sky News television on Oct. 24 that “I don’t
think there is any prospect of having unlimited fees.”  “If fees were raised to 7,000 pounds ($11,000) a year -- a
figure that has featured prominently in Browne and in government
comment -- no additional income would come to the university,”
Vice-Chancellor  Andrew Hamilton  wrote in an undated  letter 
published on the university’s website. “Under any future
funding regime, the collegiate university is going to have to do
all it can to find additional resources.”  The Browne  report  proposed students should fund the fees
with government-backed loans, and repay them at a rate of 9
percent of any income above 21,000 pounds a year. Under the
current system, fees are capped at 3,290 pounds a year, with the
government making up some of the shortfall. Students repay loans
at subsidized rates when they earn more than 15,000 pounds after
graduation.  National Levy  “The review does hold out the prospect of fees rising
above 7,000 pounds but, even if approved, much of the extra
money (at least as envisaged under Browne) would go into a
national levy, not to the university,” Hamilton said.  The full cost of teaching an undergraduate student at
Oxford is currently estimated at about 16,000 pounds a year,
Hamilton wrote. When the contribution made by tuition fees and
public funding is subtracted, the annual shortfall per
undergraduate is about 8,000 pounds.  The current proposals “do little to significantly narrow
the gap and, in some variations, actually increase it,”
Hamilton wrote.  “If we believe strongly that the tutorial system is the
best way to nurture maturing minds, we are going to have to find
ways of making it more financially sustainable,” he wrote,
referring to the system in which Oxford students are taught
individually or in small groups. “Philanthropy has a key role
in this endeavor.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Eddie Buckle  in Berlin at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  