-- Oxford University Reaches $1.6 Billion Donation Level Amid Government Cuts
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2010-10-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/oxford-fundraising-reaches-1-billion-pounds-as-government-cuts.html
Oxford University , the oldest in the
English-speaking world, said fundraising since 2004 has brought
in 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) and described donations as
crucial to its future at a time of government-spending cuts.  Oxford raised more than 230 million pounds in the past year
as it seeks a minimum of 1.25 billion pounds to support
teaching, research and new facilities, the university said in an
e-mailed statement today.  “For almost half of the six years that Oxford has been
raising funds for the campaign, the world has been in an
economic downturn -- yet our alumni and supporters have
continued to give,” Vice-Chancellor  Andrew Hamilton  said in the
statement. “Their generosity, which is a huge vote of
confidence in Oxford, is fundamental to Oxford’s future at a
time when government funding is so stretched.”  Hamilton said in a letter published on the university’s
website this month that government plans to change the way
higher education is financed may leave the institution with a
funding shortfall.  A review published Oct. 12 by  John Browne , the former chief
executive officer of BP Plc, proposed ending the current cap on
tuition fees, though Business Secretary  Vince Cable , who
oversees universities, said he doesn’t expect colleges to be
able to charge “unlimited” sums.  The full cost of teaching an undergraduate student at
Oxford is currently estimated at about 16,000 pounds a year,
Hamilton wrote. When the contribution made by tuition fees and
public funding is subtracted, the annual shortfall per
undergraduate is about 8,000 pounds.  The current proposals “do little to significantly narrow
the gap and, in some variations, actually increase it,”
Hamilton wrote.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Eddie Buckle  in Berlin at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  