-- `Toyota Technicians' Confirmed Sudden Acceleration, Lawyers Say in Filings
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-10-28T21:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/toyota-technicians-knew-of-sudden-acceleration-documents-say.html
“Toyota technicians” confirmed
that vehicles were unexpectedly accelerating and the company
bought back the vehicles, had customers sign confidentiality
agreements and didn’t disclose the problems to regulators,
plaintiffs’ lawyers said in court documents.  In testimony about acceleration defects before  Congress ,
 Toyota Motor Corp.  didn’t disclose that the technicians had
replicated instances of sudden unintended acceleration not
caused by pedals or mats, according to documents filed yesterday
in federal court in Santa Ana, California. The company also
didn’t report the customer agreements to the  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration , the plaintiffs’ lawyers said.  Steven Curtis , a spokesman for Toyota’s U.S. sales arm in
Torrance, California, said today in an e-mail that no
technicians for the company or field specialists confirmed
unintended acceleration in vehicles. He said the plaintiffs’
lawyers are referring to service technicians employed by
dealerships, which are independent businesses.  As for Toyota Motor Corp. and its representatives, such as
field technical specialists or engineers, “We have not
replicated the customers’ acceleration concerns nor found any
issues or conditions in these vehicles while driving or
analyzing them for thousands of miles,” Curtis said.  Company Agents  The dealer technicians are agents of the company, said
 Steve Berman , co-lead attorney for plaintiffs in the case.
Toyota knew of problems related to sudden acceleration as early
as 2003 and failed to disclose that the cars could be unsafe,
according to the consolidated class-action lawsuit. The company
has said the claims are based on anecdotes and fail to identify
any specific defects in the vehicles.  The revised complaint against Toyota adds allegations that
“Toyota technicians” replicated acceleration events in testing
and reported the results to the company, said Berman’s law firm,
Seattle-based  Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP , in an e-mailed
statement.  “To further conceal the defect Toyota required as a
condition of the vehicle repurchase that the owner sign a
confidentiality agreement and agree not to sue,” according to
the 725-page complaint, which refers to sudden unintended
acceleration as SUA events. “This confirmation of a clear SUA
event not reported to the NHTSA and was concealed.”  Vehicles Repurchased  Toyota field specialists responded to reports of two
acceleration events that dealer technicians reportedly observed
and “were unable to duplicate the condition,” find any related
issues or conditions, and the vehicles were repurchased for
further analysis, said  Brian Lyons , a Toyota spokesman, in an
e-mailed statement today. The National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration was informed three times of the two vehicle
reports, Lyons said.  In February, the company assembled a list of reports
detailing the circumstances of 29 deaths related to sudden-
 acceleration problems , according to the complaint. Toyota
ordered employees to remove names of executives from
acceleration related e-mails and to stop using specific
acceleration terms in e-mails to prevent damage to the company
in litigation, lawyers for car owners said in the complaint.  Toyota, the world’s  largest carmaker , faces more than 300
lawsuits in state and federal courts over alleged sudden
acceleration of its vehicles. The company recalled 8 million
vehicles in the past year for defects linked to unintended
acceleration.  The case is In re: Toyota Motor Corp. Unintended
Acceleration Litigation, 10-MDL-2151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 