-- Palin’s Pick Can’t Lock Up Own Shifty Past: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2010-10-28T01:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/palin-s-pick-can-t-lock-up-own-shifty-past-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
Did anyone think that the year of
anger in U.S. politics would reach concussive depths?  Before the Oct. 25 U.S. Senate debate in  Kentucky  between
Democrat Jack Conway and Republican Rand Paul, a Paul supporter
working crowd control  overpowered  Lauren Valle, an activist with
the liberal group MoveOn.org, pinned her arms behind her back,
then stomped on her head.  The 23-year-old Valle, who came across in later interviews
as slight and soft-spoken, may have stretched the bounds of
campaign decorum with her effort to pose next to Paul with a
satirical sign. That doesn’t justify a sidewalk sandwich.  Even with the ugly encounter captured on videotape, Paul,
one of the Tea Party’s insurgent stars, tried at first to write
it off as just an altercation between “supporters of both
sides.” In truth, it had a Rodney King element: after Valle had
been tackled, Tim Profitt, a county-level coordinator for Paul’s
campaign, used his foot to grind her face into the pavement.
Profitt ultimately was relieved of his campaign duties.  The incident was good news for another Tea Partier,  Joe Miller , the Republican nominee for Senate in Alaska, whose
campaign no longer can be called the most physically aggressive.  Since his upset victory in the Republican primary over
incumbent Senator  Lisa Murkowski , Miller said he wouldn’t answer
any questions about his past. When the editor of the  Alaska
Dispatch  news website asked some anyway, at a public event,
security guards employed by Miller’s campaign  handcuffed  the
journalist and seized his video camera. There were no grounds to
arrest him, of course, and a police officer called to the scene
removed the cuffs.  Improbably Close  We don’t know what, if anything, the violence outside the
Kentucky debate will do to affect that race, which Paul had been
 leading in polls  by about 8 percentage points. But Miller now
finds himself in  something close  to a dead heat, which seemed
utterly improbable a few weeks ago.  For good reason, no one gave Murkowski much of a chance in
her effort to retain her seat as a write-in candidate. Like
Ginger Rogers, she would have to do everything her male
opponents did, only backward and in high heels. A moderate in a
conservative year, Murkowski defends the earmarking process that
has brought loads of federal money to  Alaska  and voted for the
bank-bailout program known as TARP, though she says now she
regrets that.  No one’s helped Murkowski more than Miller, who is proving
himself beyond the pale even at a time when extremism is no
vice.  ‘Take You Out’  In  New York , Republican gubernatorial nominee Carl Paladino
threatened, “I’ll take you out, buddy,” to a reporter who
asked questions he didn’t like. In  Nevada , Sharron Angle says
the public might be ready to try “Second Amendment remedies”
to take control of their government. Proving that anger is
bipartisan, the Democratic candidate for governor in  Rhode
Island , Frank Caprio, said President  Barack Obama  could “shove
it” for not endorsing him.  Alaska’s Miller had good reason to ban inquiries about his
past, because it’s so troubling. Until it was  dug up , he refused
to admit that as a part-time attorney for the Fairbanks North
Star Borough, he was suspended for using government computers to
cast multiple votes in a meaningless online poll that he was
sponsoring in hopes of undermining the state Republican
chairman.  “I lied about accessing all of the computers. I then
admitted about accessing the computers, but lied about what I
was doing. Finally, I admitted what I did,” Miller wrote as
part of the 2008 disciplinary proceeding he fought to keep
secret.  Monopolizing Headlines  While mostly boosting Murkowski’s chances, Miller’s self-
combustion has also pulled the Democratic candidate, Scott McAdams -- a dead ringer for John Candy, with a mustache --
within single digits of both of them. But between Miller’s past
and Murkowski’s improbable dream, there’s little room left in
the headlines for the Democrat to make much headway.  Miller, you might recall, had an  early scare  when he was
perceived as dissing Sarah Palin after her endorsement won him
the primary. Asked about Palin’s qualifications to be president,
Miller demurred. That brought a chiding e-mail from Todd Palin,
which Miller duly forwarded to a few select friends with the
notations, “This is what we’re dealing with” and, “Holy
Cow.” Luckily for Miller, Palin is more intent on bagging and
field-dressing Murkowski than redressing his slight.  There’s room on the tundra for only one Mama Grizzly.  Unimpressive Press  Those who complain that U.S. campaigns are too long should
note how long it can take for voters to size up first-time
candidates who dodge the press, conceal their past and limit
their interactions with the public. With the notable exception
of a certain handcuffed journalist in Alaska, the press hasn’t
done a particularly impressive job, either. Most reporters fear
calling fouls for fear of being labeled elitist.  Anger, incivility and high emotions have infected previous
elections, of course. With the arrest in Alaska and the stomping
in Kentucky, it feels much worse this year. It’s fashionable for
female candidates in both parties to say, “Man up.” Let’s try,
“Simmer down.”  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  