-- China’s Stocks Drop for Third Day; Insurers, Miners Retreat
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-28T07:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/petrochina-agribank-china-southern-air-ping-an-chinese-equity-preview.html
China’s stocks  dropped for a third
day on concern earnings growth may slow because of the
government’s policy tightening measures and the possibility
interest rates may rise to slow inflation.
      Ping An Insurance (Group) Co.  paced declines among insurers
after third-quarter profit slid 26 percent. SAIC Motor Corp.
fell 3.7 percent, leading a gauge of consumer discretionary
stocks lower.  Jiangxi Copper Co.  and Zijin Mining Group Co.
retreated at least 1.6 percent after the central bank said
rising commodity prices and looser credit will stoke inflation.
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. and Bank of China Ltd. gained
after profit rose almost 30 percent to beat estimates.  “Corporate earnings are mixed and that’ll let the market
cool down a bit after aggressive buying,” said  Li Jun , a
Shanghai-based strategist at Central China Securities Holdings
Co. “The market needs to consolidate at this level.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, lost 4.47, or 0.2 percent, to 2,992.58
at the 3 p.m. close after changing direction more than 10 times.
The  CSI 300 Index  dropped 0.2 percent to 3,397.69.  The Shanghai Composite has gained 13 percent this month,
the best performer among the 88 major benchmarks tracked
globally by Bloomberg. The gauge is still down 8.7 percent this
year after the government raised bank reserve requirements and
curbed lending growth to avert asset bubbles.  Corporate earnings show a mixed picture so far. Among the
Chinese companies that have released third-quarter earnings, the
565 traded on the Shanghai Stock Exchange beat analysts’
 estimates  by 5.3 percent while the 807 in Shenzhen trailed the
estimates by 47 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Property Curbs  China aims to stabilize food costs and rein in excessive
property-price gains in some cities as the economy maintains
momentum, the cabinet said yesterday.  The government will ensure adequate grain production and
crack down on commodity hoarding, the State Council said in a
statement on the fourth-quarter economy after a meeting two days
ago chaired by Premier  Wen Jiabao . Local authorities must
“seriously” implement property curbs and build more low-cost
homes, it said.  China will likely raise borrowing costs by another quarter
point this year to curb the property market, Steven Sun, head of
China equity strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move Asia.” He said the
nation’s equities may rise 15 percent within a year.  Insurers Decline  Ping An, China’s second-largest insurer, dropped 0.8
percent to 60.81 yuan. The company said third-quarter profit
fell 26 percent from a year earlier as claims rose and the
company set aside greater reserves.  Other insurers declined.  China Life Insurance Co. , the
nation’s biggest, fell 1.2 percent to 25.82 yuan. China Pacific
Insurance (Group) Co., the third largest, slid 0.4 percent to
26.13 yuan.  A  gauge  of consumer discretionary stocks slid 1.5 percent
today, the most among the 10 industries group of the CSI 300. It
rose to the highest since March 2008 at the start of the week.  SAIC, China’s largest carmaker, slid 3.7 percent to 20.13
yuan, extending yesterday’s 5 percent decline and capping the
biggest two-day decline since May 17. The stock has jumped 64
percent since the start of the second half of the year. FAW Car
Co., which makes passenger cars with Volkswagen AG, dropped 1.5
percent to 20.53 yuan, a third day of losses.  Airlines fell as the yuan slid to its weakest level this
month after the central bank set a lower reference rate for a
third day. A weaker Chinese currency increases airlines’ U.S.
dollar debt costs.  China Southern  China Southern Airlines Co. , the nation’s biggest carrier
by fleet size, slid 3.3 percent to 11.71 yuan. China Eastern
Airlines Corp., the second largest, dropped 1.6 percent to 9.02
yuan.  The central bank said rapid increase in global commodity
prices and quantitative easing in major economies may fuel
inflation, according to a statement posted on the People’s Bank
of China website yesterday. Relatively loose domestic credit
conditions may also spur higher prices, the statement said.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
slipped 1.6 percent to 44.46 yuan after doubling from its July
low. Zijin Mining, the nation’s largest gold producer, dropped
2.3 percent to 9.61 yuan.  AgriBank, the nation’s third-largest by assets, added 1.5
percent to 2.80 yuan. Bank of China, the fourth largest, rose
0.9 percent to 3.55 yuan.  Net income for AgriBank climbed to 24.3 billion yuan ($3.6
billion) from 18.77 billion yuan a year earlier, in its first
quarterly results since completing the world’s biggest initial
public offering in August. Profit at Bank of China climbed to a
record 27.2 billion yuan, according to its statement yesterday.  Agricultural Bank’s profit exceeded the 22 billion yuan
median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, while
Bank of China’s earnings beat a 23.9 billion yuan median
estimate of nine analysts.  -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  