-- Poland Chooses Kulczyk Over GDF Suez for Talks on $3.6 Billion Enea Deal
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   E s p i n o
-- 2010-10-28T14:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/poland-chooses-kulczyk-over-gdf-suez-for-talks-on-3-6-billion-enea-deal.html
Poland granted Kulczyk Holding SA,
owned by billionaire  Jan Kulczyk , exclusive talks to buy  Enea
SA , the country’s third-largest power company, in preference to
 GDF Suez SA , France’s largest utility.  Kulczyk, which would act as a guarantor for buyer Elektron
Sp. z o.o., has until Nov. 3 to negotiate the purchase of the
Treasury Ministry’s 51 percent stake in Enea, the ministry said
in a statement on its website today.  “Before we make a decision we need to check who the buyer
is and who is responsible for the financing,” Treasury Minister
 Aleksander Grad  told reporters in Warsaw today. In any case,
“we can always come back to the previous bidders.”  Kulczyk will finance the purchase mostly with its own
equity, supported by investment funds, and debt,  Dariusz Mioduski , chief executive officer of parent company Kulczyk
Investments, told Bloomberg. He declined to name the funds.  The ministry wants the winning bidder to announce a tender
for 100 percent of Poznan-based Enea, which was valued at  10.4
billion zloty  ($3.6 billion) at 3:43 p.m. in Warsaw trading
today. The government plans to complete the sale, in which it’s
being advised by Credit Suisse Securities Europe Ltd. and
Rothschild Polska Sp. z o.o., by the end of the year as it needs
to help finance a growing budget deficit.  Asset Sales  The government has said it’s seeking to raise 25 billion
zloty from asset sales this year. Once it agrees to sell Enea,
the ministry will have signed deals for about 30 billion zloty.  A bid for 100 percent would give Vattenfall AB, the Nordic
utility that owns 19 percent of Enea, a chance to sell, having
announced a plan to focus on Germany, the Netherlands and
Sweden.  The ministry is looking for a premium of 10 to 20 percent
on the market price for its stake, Deputy Treasury Minister  Jan Bury  said last month. Grad today declined to comment on the
value of the transaction.  GDF Suez and Kulczyk were among six companies that placed
in August initial bids for Enea, one of five power companies in
which the ministry has been selling stakes this year.  GDF spokeswoman  Sabine Wacquez  declined to comment on the
sale when reached by Bloomberg News.  The ministry has already sold or agreed to sell stakes in
the other top four utilities,  PGE SA , Tauron Polska Energia SA
and Energa SA, booking 15.7 billion zloty.  It’s also in talks with Rafako SA to sell PAK SA, which
produces 8.5 percent of the country’s electricity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net 
 Nathaniel Espino  in Warsaw 
 nespino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  