-- Poland Joining Fight Against Inflows Means Main Rate to Stay at Record-Low
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-10-28T13:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/poland-joining-fight-against-inflows-means-main-rate-to-stay-at-record-low.html
Poland’s central bank may keep its
key interest rate unchanged at least until the end of the year
as it joins other countries in seeking to prevent capital
inflows from undermining economic growth.  The bank’s decision yesterday to leave the  seven-day
reference rate  at a record-low 3.5 percent on concern about the
rate differential with the European Central Bank and U.S.
Federal Reserve signals it probably won’t raise borrowing costs
next month, according to eight economists.  “Yesterday’s decision and the statement afterwards
indicate a lack of a majority that would be able to decide on a
preemptive increase,” said  Grzegorz Maliszewski , chief
economist at Bank Millennium SA in Warsaw.  Poland’s central bank followed policy makers in other
countries who have taken steps to slow inflows as low interest
rates and weak economic growth in developed economies force
investors to turn to emerging markets for higher returns.
Governor  Marek Belka  said it would be “irresponsible” to
disregard the global situation.  The European Central Bank has kept its benchmark
refinancing rate at 1 percent since May 2009 and the U.S.
Federal Reserve, with rates close to zero, says it may ease
monetary policy.  The central banks of Sweden and Norway said this week that
dwindling global recovery prospects will prevent them from
raising rates as fast as they had planned, while Israel held
rates steady on Oct. 25 and bought $699 million last month to
curb the shekel’s rally.  Speculative Strengthening  “Belka is acutely aware that if the NBP were to hike
independently, then it could trigger an excessive speculative
and unsustainable strengthening of the zloty,”  Lars Christensen , head of emerging-markets research at Danske Bank
A/S in Copenhagen, wrote yesterday. This “is in line with what
other central banks in small, open economies are realizing.”  Christensen said he expects Polish rates to remain on hold
for a “sustained period.”  Brazil has increased the tax on foreigners’ investments in
fixed-income securities to 6 percent from 2 percent in an effort
slow inflows.  “There is clearly a concern that when a country like
Brazil is taxing investments people would decide to put money in
Poland if the rates were to go up,” said  Nigel Rendell , a
senior emerging-market strategist at RBC Capital in London.  Rendell predicts the first rate increase will take place in
November and the pace of tightening will be “gradual.”  The zloty traded at 3.9654 per euro at 3 p.m. in Warsaw,
little changed after dropping 0.9 percent yesterday. The decline
was the steepest since Oct. 19 and the second-biggest among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Buy Time  The central bank also decided to increase the reserve
requirement for commercial banks by half percentage-point to 3.5
percent, a move seen by most economists as a compromise between
opponents of rate increases and those who sought to boost
borrowing costs in August and September.  “Such a decision may mean the Council wanted to convince
markets that it is gradually normalizing monetary policy and it
wanted to buy some time before it starts more aggressive
monetary tightening,” said  Piotr Kalisz , an economist at
Citigroup Inc. in Warsaw, who forecasts the first increase in
January or February.  The council said it sees no current threat from
accelerating  inflation  because last month’s increase was driven
mainly by food prices, with core inflation remaining unchanged
at 1.2 percent. The consumer price index rose to 2.5 percent in
September, meeting the bank’s inflation target.  “After yesterday’s decision of the council, the likelihood
of an interest rate hike in coming months has decreased,” said
 Maja Goettig , chief economist at Bank BPH, who had forecast the
bank would raise rates yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  