-- Potash's Doyle `Waiting for Godot' to Trump BHP $40 Billion Bid
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2010-10-29T20:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/potash-having-very-active-conversations-on-alternative-bids.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. 
Chief Executive Officer  Bill Doyle  urged patience for investors
expecting an alternative to BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion bid,
two months after starting talks with potential suitors.  “I laugh when I see people presume or assume a certain
outcome,” Doyle said in a telephone interview yesterday from
Potash Corp.’s offices in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. “I just say,
‘Please be patient.’” He declined to elaborate.  Potash Corp., the world’s largest fertilizer maker, has
been seeking alternatives since rejecting BHP’s offer on Aug.
17. No proposals have been made public.  “It’s like waiting for Godot,”  Tim Schroeders , who helps
manage about $1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne,
said today in an interview. “It’s in his best interests to
allow investors to think there is going to be another offer. You
can’t rule it out but I think it’s a less than 50 percent
probability at this stage.”  Doyle says the offer from Melbourne-based BHP is too low
amid rising prices for grains and his company’s namesake crop
nutrient. The company yesterday reported third-quarter  profit 
that beat analysts’  estimates  and raised its full-year earnings
forecast.  Potash Corp. is engaged in “very active conversations”
about alternatives to  BHP ’s hostile offer and is pursuing “all
options,” Doyle said yesterday.  Value Recognition  Potash Corp.  rose $2.56, or 1.8 percent, to $145.09 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. BHP, the
world’s largest mining company,  fell  0.3 percent to 2,213.5
pence in London.  “If you think that only one company in the world can
recognize the value of Potash Corporation -- that’s quite a
remarkable thought process,” Doyle said. “When you say there’s
only a couple of companies, you can’t limit yourself to thinking
one way.”  The Canadian government is to decide by Nov. 3 whether to
approve the offer based on a calculation of the transaction’s
benefit to the country. An alternative bidder may wait until
that decision is made, Pengana’s Schroeders said today. His
reference to Godot refers to  Samuel Beckett ’s play “Waiting for
Godot” in which the title character never arrives.  Possible Bidders  Sinochem Group, China’s largest fertilizer trader, which
had explored taking a majority stake in Potash Corp. according
to people familiar with the plan, may struggle to get state
financial backing for a takeover, two people with knowledge of
the matter said Oct. 7.  Potash Corp. has held talks with 15 potential investors and
is continuing to seek alternatives, the company said in a filing
dated yesterday with the Saskatchewan Financial Services
Commission.  Some Saskatchewan native groups, merchant banks, pension
funds and foreign investors are trying to complete a counterbid
for Potash Corp., the StarPhoenix newspaper reported yesterday,
citing First Nations spokesmen and without naming the banks and
funds.  Doyle said in the interview he wouldn’t talk about specific
alternative bids.  Potash Corp.’s shares declined yesterday on speculation
that Canada may reject BHP’s proposed transaction, said  Edlain Rodriguez , a New York-based analyst at Gleacher & Co.  BHP’s Offer  The government is becoming more skeptical of BHP’s offer
and Industry Minister  Tony Clement  is being swayed by comments
from Saskatchewan Premier  Brad Wall , who opposes the offer, the
Globe and Mail reported, citing unidentified people.  “We have absolute confidence in the integrity of the
Investment Canada review process,”  Ruban Yogarajah , a BHP
spokesman, said in a telephone interview. “We continue to have
ongoing negotiations with the investment review division.”  The Globe story has no basis in fact, Lynn Meahan, a
spokeswoman for Investment Canada, a division of the Industry
Department, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said yesterday his
government would rule “without bias” on the proposed takeover.  The Financial Times cited several unidentified people with
connections to the government as saying Canada was leaning
toward approving BHP’s offer.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told reporters today in
Whitby, Ontario, that the federal government has “looked
carefully” at the tax implications of BHP’s takeover offer for
Potash. He didn’t elaborate.  ‘Net Benefit’  Under the  Investment Canada Act , the government can block
any transaction valued at C$299 million ($294 million) or more
if it finds the deal doesn’t provide a “net benefit” to the
country, based on factors such as economic activity, employment
and productivity.  Potash Corp.’s  net income  climbed 62 percent to $402.7
million, or $1.32 a share, from $247.9 million, or 82 cents, a
year earlier, the company said yesterday in a statement. Per-
share profit topped the $1.16  average estimate  of 25 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “BHP remains a serious and committed bidder” for Potash
Corp.,  Paul Galloway , a London-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein Ltd., said yesterday in a note to clients. He
estimates BHP will have to raise its per-share offer to $156 to
complete the transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 