-- Rally for Hong Kong's China Shares is Intact on `Golden Cross,' CICC Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-28T01:50:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/rally-for-hong-kong-s-china-shares-is-intact-on-golden-cross-cicc-says.html
Hong Kong-traded Chinese stocks will
resume their rally as a so-called Golden Cross indicator remains
intact and the decline in the benchmark index yesterday eased
overbought conditions, said China International Capital Corp.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index , which tracks 40
Chinese  companies  traded in Hong Kong, fell 2.8 percent to
13,259.10 yesterday, as raw-material producers retreated amid
speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve’s efforts to shore up the
economy will be gradual. That was the steepest decline for the
measure since May 25 and pared its rebound from this year’s May
25 low to 24 percent.  “Halloween is a time for good scares, and candy,”  Hao Hong , a Beijing-based global strategist at CICC, said in a
report. “This sell-off is more likely to be a correction than a
ceiling.”  The Golden Cross, which was triggered on Oct. 5 when the
average close for the previous 50 trading days surpassed the
average for the last 200 days, “tends to confirm a bullish
uptrend,” Hong said.  Since 2000, the market has returned an average 14 percent
within 200 trading days of a Golden Cross, with a maximum gain
of 77 percent and loss of 4 percent, according to the report.  In  Shanghai  yesterday, the nation’s benchmark index fell
the most in six weeks on concern the size of the possible U.S.
asset-purchase program may disappoint investors. The Wall Street
Journal reported the Fed may next week announce a program of U.S.
Treasury purchases worth a few hundred billion dollars. The
ultimate size of the program range could reach $2 trillion,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates.  Asian Rally  A smaller program of Treasury bond purchases would not end
the rally for Asian equities,  Michael Kurtz , head of Asian
strategy at Macquarie Bank Ltd., said in a note to clients.  “A smaller-than-expected QE exercise would pose only a
temporary challenge for continued medium-term Asian equity
upside,” Kurtz wrote. “A visible, finite limit for QE may
offer the more attractive prospect for Asian equities once the
initial U.S. dollar short-covering bounce and short-term Asian
stock correction ran their predictable course.”  -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai. Editors:  Allen Wan   To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchu6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  