-- Transparency, Yield Drop Forecast After Kirchner's Death: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-10-28T14:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/transparency-yield-drop-forecast-after-kirchner-s-death-argentina-credit.html
The death of former Argentine
President  Nestor Kirchner  is spurring speculation that the
nation’s statistical reporting will become more transparent,
helping the country lower its borrowing costs.  Bonds rallied, cutting their yield spread over U.S.
Treasuries to the smallest since June 2008, after Kirchner died
of a heart attack yesterday. The 60-year-old former lawyer, who
underwent heart surgery twice this year, was rushed to the
hospital in the company of his wife, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner , after falling ill at their home. The
government declared three days of mourning, and Kirchner will
lie in state at the government palace in Buenos Aires today.  Kirchner’s death makes it more likely that an opposition
candidate will win next year’s presidential election, paving the
way for an overhaul of the statistics  institute , where he
replaced key personnel in 2007 before being succeeded by
Fernandez, according to Augustus Asset Management Ltd. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Barclays Plc estimate annual inflation is
about 25 percent in South America’s second-biggest economy, more
than double the 11.1 percent rate reported by the agency.  “One of the key policies with which Kirchner was most
closely associated was the manipulation of the inflation data,”
said  Paul McNamara , who oversees $4.5 billion of emerging-market
debt, including inflation-linked peso bonds, at Augustus in
London.  ‘Sympathy’ Votes  Kirchner said in July that either he or Fernandez, 57,
would run for president next year.  The yield on the inflation-linked notes due in 2033 dropped
60 basis points, or 0.6 percentage point, yesterday to 8.21
percent, compared with a 59 basis point drop to 8.94 percent on
its dollar bonds due that same year, according to Itau Unibanco
Holding SA. The inflation-linked bond yield rose one basis point
today, while the dollar bond was unchanged at 9:18 a.m. New York
time.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries sank 49 basis points yesterday, the
most in a year, to 533, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI+ index. It fell another five basis points today.  The gains are “a vote of no confidence from financial
markets” in Kirchner and Fernandez,  Siobhan Morden , an analyst
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Stamford, Connecticut,
said in a phone interview. The rally may be limited should
Kirchner’s death create “sympathy” for Fernandez among
Argentines, bolstering her chances in next year’s election,
Morden said.  Bond Rout  “These recent gains could quickly reverse,” she said.  The yield gap over Treasuries is down from 807 at the end
of May and 910 in June 2005, when Kirchner completed the
harshest sovereign debt restructuring since World War II,
according to  Arturo Porzecanski , an international finance
professor at American University in Washington. The government
defaulted on $95 billion of debt in 2001.  “The normalization of statistics will accelerate” after
Kirchner’s death, Miguel Kiguel, a former finance undersecretary
who runs research company Econviews in Buenos Aires, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s inevitable that Argentina does it,
whether this government or the next, but there’s now a
possibility that some progress can be made.”  Workers at the statistics institute, including  Graciela Bevacqua , the former consumer price index director, said the
inflation reports were being manipulated by the government.
Kirchner and Fernandez have said the institute’s figures are
accurate.  Yields on the government’s inflation-linked bonds due in
2033, one of the securities turned over to creditors in the 2005
restructuring, soared 275 basis points in 2007 as the data-
rigging concerns prompted investors to dump the securities.  Defaulted Debt  In the 2005 settlement, Kirchner offered bonds to creditors
worth 30 cents on the dollar in exchange for $95 billion of debt
the government defaulted on in 2001. That offer was rejected by
about 25 percent of investors, prompting Fernandez to settle
with holders of $12.2 billion of the securities in June.  Creditors including billionaire investor  Kenneth Dart  and
Elliott Management Corp., a New York-based hedge fund, are still
suing the government in international courts for repayment of
the debt.  Warrants linked to economic growth rose 0.17 cent to 13.08
cents today after jumping 0.45 cent yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The peso slid 0.1 percent to 3.9612 per
dollar today, from 3.9568 on Oct. 26. Local markets were closed
yesterday for a nationwide census.  ‘Strong, Confrontational’  The  cost  of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps tumbled 52 basis points
to 647 yesterday, according to data provider CMA. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to debt agreements.  A shift to a more “market-friendly” government may push
down Argentina’s five-year default  swaps  to about 350 basis
points after the elections, Royal Bank of Canada’s  Eduardo Suarez  said.  Argentine dollar bonds have returned 36 percent this year,
more than double the 16 percent gain in emerging-market debt, as
the June debt restructuring and a quickening economic expansion
helped restore investor confidence in the country.  Argentina’s 8.73 percent average dollar bond yield is still
more than 300 basis points over the 5.32 percent average yield
on emerging-market debt. Only debt issued by Venezuela and
Ecuador yields more in JPMorgan’s benchmark EMBI+ index.  Kirchner took office in 2003, in the wake of Argentina’s
default and a devaluation that forced his elected predecessor,
Fernando de la Rua, to resign amid deadly protests.  Kirchner was “a politician and president with strong,
confrontational policies,” Kiguel said. “That has been
negative for the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  