-- Molycorp Says Surge in Rare-Earth Prices Is `Sustainable' on China Cuts
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2010-10-28T06:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/rare-earth-customers-keen-to-secure-more-output-molycorp-president-says.html
Molycorp Inc. , owner of the world’s,
largest non-Chinese deposit of rare-earth metals, said the surge
in prices is sustainable because of production and export cuts
by China, the world’s biggest supplier.  “I don’t believe that there is a bubble,”  Mark A. Smith ,
president of the Greenwood Village, Colorado-based company, said
in an interview with  Susan Li  on Bloomberg Television’s “First
Up.” “These prices are absolutely sustainable and that’s
really based upon the very simple facts of supply and demand.”  Prices of rare earths, used in the manufacture of disk
drives and smart bombs, have climbed as much as sevenfold in the
past six months as China in July reduced its second-half export
quota for the minerals by 72 percent. Molycorp aims to restart a
mine in California in the second half of next year and produce
about 20,000 metric tons of rare earth oxides by the end of 2012.  The U.S. Government Accountability Office, the
investigative arm of Congress, warned in April of
“vulnerabilities” for the military because of the lack of
domestic suppliers of rare-earth materials used in weapons
systems. The Pentagon is studying how to secure future supplies,
and its report is due to Congress this month.  Vietnam, which has emerged as a potential new source for
Japanese companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. , won’t sell rare
earths in raw form, the Thanh Nien newspaper reported, citing
the Department of Geology and Minerals. Instead the country aims
to export more valuable processed rare earths.  Radioactive  While the elements aren’t as rare in nature as the name
implies, they are difficult to find in profitable concentrations,
expensive for Western producers to extract and are often laced
with radioactive elements.  China has come to dominate the market because it has been
able to produce the elements more cheaply and with fewer
environmental restrictions than its competitors.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called on China to
clarify its rare earth policy, following a meeting with her
Japanese counterpart,  Seiji Maehara , that touched on the subject
in Hawaii yesterday. The “entire world” has to seek
alternative supplies of the metals, she said.  China won’t use rare earths as a bargaining chip,  Zhu Hongren , chief engineer of the Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology, said today at a briefing in Beijing. The
Chinese government has said it is reducing exports as part of a
drive to improve efficiency in the industry and reduce
environmental damage caused by mining.  Strong Fundamentals  “The Chinese are only exporting 30,000 tons of material to
the rest of the world right now and the rest of the world needs
50,000 tons of this material a year,” said Molycorp’s Smith.
“We don’t see the fundamentals of this changing anytime in the
near future. The demand is like I’ve never seen it in 25 years
in this business.”  Lynas Corp. , a rare earths developer based in Sydney,
estimates the global rare-earth market this year at $7.8 billion,
or about a week’s sales at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  Still, China’s
cutbacks have raised political tension because of the strategic
importance of the metals used in Toyota’s Prius hybrid cars,
Research in Motion Ltd. BlackBerrys, alternative energy
generation and weapons.  The price of lanthanum oxide, used in hybrid batteries, has
risen more than sixfold since second quarter to $50 a kilogram,
according to Lynas Corp.’s  website . Vehicles like the Prius
contain about 10 kilograms of rare earths.  Alternatives  Japan’s  Nidec Corp. , the world’s biggest maker of motors
for hard-disk drives, will start making motors for industrial
machinery that don’t need rare-earth metals to reduce reliance
on the materials, the Nikkei newspaper reported today.
Production of motors that don’t use permanent magnets and don’t
require rare earth metals will start in 2012, it said.  Molycorp rose 9.6 percent to $38.56 in New York yesterday
after the U.S. House of Representative’s Science and Technology
Committee Chairman  Bart Gordon  said he will seek to pass a
measure that would boost rare-earth mining. The stock has
tripled since the company raised $394 million in a July initial
public offering.  Rare earths, a group of 17 metals including neodymium,
lanthanum, cerium and europium, have industrial and national-
security uses, such as in petroleum refining, fiber-optic
transmission, computer disk drives, and military radar and
missile-guidance systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  