-- Thrashers' Racially Diverse Roster May Help NHL Club Stop Attendance Loss
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2010-10-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/thrashers-racially-diverse-roster-may-help-nhl-club-stop-attendance-loss.html
In the 93-year history of the
National Hockey League, no team has looked like this year’s
Atlanta Thrashers.  The team’s opening-night roster included  Evander Kane ,
 Dustin Byfuglien ,  Anthony Stewart ,  Johnny Oduya  and  Nigel Dawes 
-- five of the 19 black players in the league -- to help the
Thrashers set a record for minority participation. They are also
helping them win games.  “This is the first time I’ve ever had this many guys who
look like me in the locker room,” Kane, a 19-year-old Vancouver
native, said in an interview at the team’s practice arena.
“It’s definitely a nice feeling.”  While Thrashers President  Don Waddell  said the team’s
racial makeup wasn’t intentional, the attendance-challenged NHL
team plans to use it to reach potential new fans in a city with
a 61 percent black population, according to U.S. Census Bureau
statistics.  “There are lots of good black players in the NHL, we just
happen to have five of them here,” Waddell, 52, said during an
interview last week in his Duluth, Georgia, office. “We’re not
going to be shy about that and will try to use that to help grow
the sport in this marketplace.”  Attendance  at Thrashers’ games has declined the past three
seasons to an average of 13,607 in 2009-2010 -- third-lowest in
the 30-team league -- from a high of 17,205 in the team’s
inaugural season in 1999-2000. A franchise-low 8,820 attended
the team’s Oct. 20 loss to Buffalo.  Revenue Drive  “For us to be successful here, it’s not happening right
now,” said Waddell, who was promoted to team president this
summer after 10 years as general manager. “We don’t have enough
fans to make this thing viable long term for an ownership group.
We have to try to find other means to bring in other revenue.”  Even before this year’s roster was set, Waddell said the
team’s marketing department had planned to expand its
advertising into downtown Atlanta this season. In previous
years, marketing was mainly focused on 25-to-45-year-old white
males in Atlanta’s northern suburbs, he said.  With Kane and his teammates, the new focus now makes even
better business sense.  “You have another whole set of sponsorship
opportunities,” Waddell said. “There’s still a segment of this
population that we have never reached out to.”  Hip-Hop Theme  When the team’s local advertising campaign begins in
earnest next month, commercials will air on radio stations that
have a hip-hop format. The team’s outdoor billboard campaign,
which had primarily been focused in northern suburbs, will have
an increased presence in downtown Atlanta this season. The club
plans to advertise in more predominantly black publications and
cross-promote the team with the National Basketball
Association’s Atlanta Hawks, with whom the Thrashers share
Philips Arena. Atlanta Spirit LLC bought both clubs in 2004 for
$250 million from Time Warner Inc.  Kane, who became the highest-drafted black player in NHL
history when Atlanta took him fourth overall in 2009, has been a
regular at Hawks’ games since arriving in the city. He’s
currently featured in most of the team’s advertising alongside
20-year-old defenseman  Zach Bogosian .  While Atlanta is promoting its diversity, Waddell is
cautious with his words and insists the team makes personnel
decisions based on skill, not race.  No Exploitation  “Some people think we’re trying to use race for our own
benefit,” he said. “That’s not the case. We’re not trying to
exploit these players. It’s not like we’re saying ‘let’s just
promote our black players.’ We’re still trying to promote our
best young players.”  Statistics  back up his words. Through the team’s first
eight games, Byfuglien, Stewart, Kane and Oduya rank among
Atlanta’s top eight scorers. Heading into last night’s game
against the New York Rangers, Kane leads the team with five
goals, Stewart is second with four and Byfuglien’s six points (2
goals, 4 assists) are second among defensemen.  In an Oct. 15 shootout win over the Anaheim Ducks, Stewart,
whose father is from Jamaica and mother is from Montreal, scored
three of the team’s four goals. Dawes, who also has a Jamaican
father and Canadian mother, scored the game-winning goal in the
overtime shootout. Dawes, 25, has since been assigned to
Atlanta’s minor-league affiliate in Chicago.  Record Number  For the NHL, Atlanta’s diversity is the result of years of
grass-roots work throughout hockey to increase interest in the
game.  “We’ve all worked hard to get kids access to play hockey
across the globe,” said  Brian Jennings , the NHL’s vice
president of marketing, in a telephone interview. “You’re
starting to see, and we’re going to be reaping, some of the
rewards of that.”  With four of the five players being biracial, Stewart, 25,
likes to correct the official total.  “Technically, it’s 2 1/2,” he said.  The joke draws laughter from Kane.  “He loves that line,” said Kane, who was named after
former heavyweight boxing champion  Evander Holyfield .  However, like Waddell, Kane says the team’s makeup isn’t a
joking matter and insists the only way the club will draw more
fans and increase revenue is by winning. The Thrashers have made
the playoffs once in their 10 seasons. They are fourth in the
Southeast Division as of games played Oct. 26, four points
behind the first-place Tampa Bay Lightning.  “The fact that we coincidentally have a bunch of black
guys on the team is nice, but at the same time I don’t
necessarily think it’s the end-all be-all of bringing fans to
the games. We have to win,” he said, “but it definitely
helps.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael Buteau  in Atlanta
at   mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  