-- Treasuries Advance Before Jobless Claims Report; Fed Surveys Bond Dealers
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-10-28T03:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/treasuries-advance-before-jobless-claims-report-fed-surveys-bond-dealers.html
Treasuries rose, with 10-year notes
snapping their longest slide in two years, before a government
report that economists said will show initial claims for jobless
benefits increased.  Two-year yields were within eight basis points of a record
low as the Federal Reserve prepared to buy securities maturing
from April 2012 to March 2013 today as part of its  plan  to keep
borrowing costs down. A Fed survey obtained by Bloomberg News
shows the central bank is surveying bond dealers on how
additional purchases may influence yields.  “The market’s going to rally again,” said  Tomohisa Fujiki ,
an interest-rate strategist in Tokyo at BNP Paribas SA, one of
the 18 primary dealers required to bid at Treasury debt sales.
“The recovery will be slow.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note fell three basis
points to 2.69 percent as of 12:52 p.m. in Tokyo, according to
BGCantor Market Data. The 2.625 percent security due in August
2020 gained 7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 13/32.  The notes dropped for the previous six days, pushing yields
up about a quarter percentage point during the period. Rates
will drop to 2 percent by year-end, BNP predicts.  The New York Fed survey asks about expectations for the
initial size of any new program of debt purchases and the time
over which it would be completed. The survey also asks firms how
often they anticipate the Fed will re-evaluate the program, and
to estimate its ultimate size.  With their benchmark  interest rate  near zero, policy makers
meet Nov. 2-3 to consider steps to boost an economy that’s
growing too slowly to reduce unemployment near a 26-year high.  “If they buy too much, I think there’s a real chance that
rates are going to rise because people are worried about
inflation,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “If they don’t buy
much, they’re not going to have a market impact.”  The Treasury is scheduled to sell $29 billion of seven-year
debt today, the last of four note auctions this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 