-- Gross Says Yield Rise Will Show Fed Success: Tom Keene
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-28T19:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/treasury-10-year-yields-may-signify-fed-s-success-gross-says-tom-keene.html
Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
largest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said a
rise in 10-year Treasury note yields would signify success by
the Federal Reserve in reviving inflation and economic growth.  “If it does work, here’s why the 10-year goes down in
yield then back in yield, it’s because the out years, five, six,
seven, eight, nine and 10 are vulnerable to inflation and higher
policy rates in those particular years,” Gross said in an
interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  The Fed, led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , will announce
another round of asset purchases when policy makers meet next
week after deploying $1.7 trillion to pull the economy out of
the financial crisis, according to a survey of the 18 primary
dealers that trade debt with the central bank. Fed officials,
who already cut  interest rates  almost to zero, are discussing
more purchases of Treasuries to flood markets with cheap money
as well as strategies for raising inflation expectations to
prevent stagnating prices from undermining the recovery.  Gross, a founder and co-chief investment officer of Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco, said yesterday in his monthly
commentary that a renewal of asset purchases by the central bank
will likely indicate the end of the 30-year bull market in
bonds. Treasury yields are near historically low levels in part
because Fed purchases make it mathematically impossible for
bonds to do much better, he said today.  “It’s not an end from the standpoint of over-the-cliff or
over-the-edge,” Gross said. “It’s not a Columbus thing where
he thought he was sailing off the ocean and may fall off the
edge. It’s an end from the standpoint of recognizing that
certain maturities can’t go much lower in yield.”  Total Return Fund  Gross has reduced holdings of government-related debt in
the $252 billion  Total Return Fund  for the third straight month
in September, after the securities accounted for 63 percent of
assets in June, the highest since it held an equal amount in
October 2009.  Pimco hasn’t cut the flagship fund’s duration, which is in
line with the 4.25 years to 4.5 years of Barclays Plc’s
benchmark index, Gross said. Duration, a measure of a bond’s
price sensitivity to interest rate changes, generally increases
with maturity. The firm is focused on “safe-space” that’s not
vulnerable to inflationary expectations, Gross said.  “A two-year Treasury and a three-year Treasury only yield
37 to 60 basis points, but that’s safe yield because the Fed
isn’t going anywhere,” Gross said. “We’ve been willing to
accept the lower yield in anticipation of a hand-off to federal
officials maybe six months down the road.”  ‘Tighten Monetary Policy’  The  yield  on the 10-year Treasury note dropped from a 2010
high of 4.01 percent in April to a low of 2.33 percent on Oct.
8, according to Bloomberg data, as investors purchased
Treasuries in anticipation of further asset purchases by the
central bank. The record of 2.04 percent was set in December
2008.  “They have to buy assets and at some point, if inflation
starts to get to their target, whether it’s a 2 percent target
or a price target, then they begin to raise the cost of those
reserves and therefore tighten monetary policy,” Gross said.  Pimco added to its mortgage  holdings  in September to 28
percent of assets, from 21 percent in the prior month. Pimco
also expanded its emerging-market debt to 12 percent last month,
the highest since at least September 2006. Non-U.S. developed
debt was unchanged at 6 percent.  The  Total Return Fund , also the world’s biggest mutual
fund, handed investors a gain of about 11.09 percent in the past
year, beating about 76 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer
Allianz SE, managed $1.236 trillion of assets as of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  