-- Treasuries Advance as Fed Surveys Dealers on Asset Purchases
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2010-10-28T12:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/treasuries-rise-snap-six-day-decline-as-fed-surveys-dealers-on-purchases.html
Treasuries rose as the Federal
Reserve asked bond dealers how asset purchases will influence
yields, encouraging speculation policy makers remain open to
large acquisitions as they try to spur the economy.  Benchmark 10-year  notes  advanced for the first time in
seven days, ending the longest stretch of losses in two years
and pushing the yield down from almost a one-month high. U.S.
government debt fell yesterday as a Wall Street Journal story
suggested that a Fed  program  bond dealers expect to be enacted
next week to boost growth will be gradual.  “If the Fed will have more of an open mind to incorporate
what the dealer community might be expecting, then the sentiment
may be that the program could be more,” said  Martin Mitchell, 
head government bond trader at the Baltimore unit of Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., a St. Louis-based brokerage firm. “It’s a
moving target and the report gave people more of a positive bias
going into the announcement.”  The 10-year  note yield  decreased two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.7 percent at 8:41 a.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. It increased yesterday to
2.73 percent, the highest level since Sept. 20. The price of the
2.625 percent security maturing in August 2020 rose 1/8, or
$1.25 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 10/32.  The yield on the two-year note dropped two basis points to
0.39 percent, compared with the  record low  of 0.33 percent
reached on Oct. 12.  Jobless Claims  U.S. 30-year bonds erased gains and 10-year notes pared
their advance after a report showed applications for U.S.
 unemployment benefits  unexpectedly fell last week to the lowest
level in three months. Initial jobless claims decreased by
21,000 to 434,000 in the week ended Oct. 23, the lowest since
early July, Labor Department data showed in Washington.  Treasuries have lost 0.8 percent this month, according to
indexes compiled by the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies and Bloomberg, paring this year’s returns to
8.1 percent.  The New York Fed survey, obtained by Bloomberg News, asks
about expectations for the size of any new program of debt
purchases and the time over which it would be completed.  Fed policy makers said after their Sept. 21 meeting that
they were prepared to act to support the economy and increase
consumer prices. Debt investors have said the central bank
shouldn’t allow inflation, which erodes the value of bonds’
fixed payments, to accelerate too rapidly.  ‘Bit of a Rebound’  “Treasuries are seeing a little bit of a rebound,” said
 Orlando Green , assistant director of capital-markets strategy at
Credit Agricole SA in London. “All eyes are on next week’s
Federal Open Market Committee meeting. The Fed is walking a
tightrope. It still has the problem of exit strategy further
down the line.”  Treasuries dropped yesterday as a report showing new-home
sales rose in September more than economists forecast also
encouraged speculation Fed debt purchases would be gradual.  “They will release what they think is appropriate to boost
economic growth while keeping inflation stable,” said  Tomohisa Fujiki , a strategist in Tokyo at BNP Paribas SA, one of the 18
primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  The central bank already reinvests the principal payments
from its holdings of mortgage debt in U.S. government
securities. It will buy Treasury notes due from April 2012 to
March 2013 today as part of that  program .  Policy makers are scheduled to meet Nov. 2-3 to consider
steps to boost an economy that’s growing too slowly to reduce
unemployment, now at a 26-year high. Financial-market
participants are focusing on the size, timing and maturities of
likely purchases aimed at lowering long-term rates, with
estimates reaching $1 trillion or more.  ‘Best Efforts’  New York Fed President  William Dudley  said yesterday the
U.S. economy faces a slow rebound from the worst recession since
the 1930s.  “Even with our best efforts, the road to full recovery
here in upstate New York and across the nation is likely to be
long and bumpy,” Dudley said in a speech in Buffalo, New York.
“ Unemployment  remains much higher than we would like.”  Dudley, who is also vice chairman of the policy-setting
FOMC, repeated his view that the Fed will probably need to start
a second round of unconventional monetary easing to combat too-
low inflation and an unemployment rate that is near 10 percent.  In the last of four note and inflation-indexed debt
auctions this week totaling $109 billion, the Treasury will sell
$29 billion of seven-year debt today.  The securities yielded 2.016 percent in pre-auction
trading, compared with the record low of 1.89 percent at the
previous offering Sept. 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  