-- Redecard Falls Most in 4 Months as It Boosts Costs to Compete With Cielo
-- B y   T e l m a   M a r o t t o   a n d   R o b i n   S t r i n g e r
-- 2010-10-28T14:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/redecard-profit-falls-2-7-as-it-boosts-costs-to-compete-with-rival-cielo.html
Redecard SA , Brazil’s second-largest
card-payment processor by market value, posted the biggest
decline in almost four months after the company said it
increased costs to compete with larger rival Cielo SA.  Redecard shares dropped 4.4 percent to 22.82 reais at 9:54
a.m. New York time in Sao Paulo trading, heading to its biggest
decline since June 30.  The Sao Paulo-based company said today  adjusted net income 
fell 2.7 percent to 324.1 million reais ($189.5 million) in the
third quarter, from 333 million reais a year earlier. The  mean
estimate  for net income excluding some items was 342.9 million
reais in a Bloomberg survey of eight analysts.  Redecard has boosted expenses in the past few quarters
after  Cielo , the country’s biggest credit-card processor by
market value, ended its exclusive right to handle Visa-branded
transactions in July,  Federico Rey Marino  and  Francisco Pereyra ,
analysts at Raymond James, wrote in an Oct. 26 report. The
company’s costs and operational expenses increased 41 percent
from a year earlier, Redecard said.  Bank of America Corp. reduced its recommendation for
Redecard to “underperform” from “neutral” after the
earnings.  The company doesn’t expect marketing and other expenses to
remain at the level they were at in the third quarter, Chief
Executive Officer  Roberto Medeiros  said on a conference call
with analysts today.  Gross Domestic Product  Brazil’s gross domestic product will expand 7.6 percent
this year, according to the average forecast of about 100
economists in an Oct. 22 central bank survey. Retail sales rose
a faster-than-forecast 2 percent in August from a month earlier,
according to the national statistics agency. September
unemployment fell to 6.2 percent, the lowest figure on record.  Redecard said the combined value of credit- and debit-card
transactions increased 23 percent in the quarter to 45.3 billion
reais.  Redecard rose 0.5 percent, or 11 centavos, to 23.86 reais
in Sao Paulo  trading  yesterday. The shares have fallen 18
percent this year through yesterday, while  Brazil’s Bovespa
index  has gained 2.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robin Stringer  in Sao Paulo at 
 rstringer@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story:
 Telma Marotto  in Sao Paulo at 
 tmarotto1@bloomberg.net  