-- Renault-Nissan in Talks to Buy AvtoVAZ Stake From Troika, Raising Holding
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2010-10-28T16:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/renault-nissan-in-talks-to-buy-avtovaz-stake-from-troika-raising-holding.html
The Renault-Nissan alliance is in
talks to raise its stake in Russian carmaker  OAO AvtoVAZ  by
purchasing shares from Troika Dialog, the Moscow brokerage
that’s trying to sell its 25 percent holding.  “Troika Dialog is in negotiations with Renault-Nissan,”
Troika Managing Director  Serguei Skvortsov  said in an e-mailed
statement. “The talks are at a very early stage.”  Skvortsov’s comments came after  Carlos Ghosn , who heads
 Renault SA  and its Japanese affiliate  Nissan Motor Co. , told
Russia Today television that he was in discussions to buy
Troika’s stake, worth 11.6 billion rubles ($379 million) at
yesterday’s closing price. AvtoVAZ rose as much as 7.6 percent
in Russian trading today.  Renault-Nissan had until now resisted pressure from Russian
officials including Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  to increase
the 25 percent stake in AvtoVAZ that Renault bought for $1
billion in 2008. In addition to Renault’s cash investment, the
alliance is contributing equipment and proprietary technology to
enable AvtoVAZ’s Togliatti plant to build cars under the
Renault, Nissan and Lada brands.  “If they can modernize AvtoVAZ as the Russian government
hopes, Renault-Nissan are likely to have direct and indirect
assistance to ensure they retain a robust share of a fast-
growing market,” said  Max Warburton , a London-based analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein who has an “outperform” rating on Renault
shares.  Profitable?  “It could potentially be very profitable,” Warburton
said. “The more of it they control, the more of the profit and
cash flow they can access.”  Renault fell 1.05 euros, or 2.6 percent, to 39.57 euros at
the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in Paris, paring the stock’s gain
this year to 9.3 percent and valuing the French carmaker at 11.7
billion euros ($16.3 billion). AvtoVAZ rose 3.8 percent in
Moscow.  “As part of our long-term strategy, the alliance will
continue to make investments in our business in Russia, which
could include taking a larger stake in our local partner,”
Renault-Nissan spokesman  Simon Sproule  said in a statement.  Renault as recently as June said it had no plans to raise
its stake in the Russian carmaker. Renault owns 43.4 percent of
Nissan, which in turn holds a 14.5 percent stake in France’s
second-largest carmaker.  Volvo Sale  Renault agreed a year ago to contribute technology worth
240 million euros to help AvtoVAZ develop new models and improve
efficiency.  The French carmaker raised 3 billion euros this month by
selling a 14.9 percent stake in truckmaker  Volvo AB , saying at
the time that the sale was designed to “strengthen Renault’s
balance sheet” and pay down debt.  Troika, Renault and state-owned Russian Technologies Corp.
each hold 25 percent of AvtoVAZ. Troika, Russia’s oldest
brokerage, said in March it was “ready to exit” AvtoVAZ.  Separately, Russian news agency Interfax reported today
that Russian Technologies may sell a 4 percent AvtoVAZ stake to
Nissan, citing  Sergei Chemezov , the state holding’s chief
executive officer.  Oleg Lobanov , vice president for finance at AvtoVAZ, said
Oct. 26 that the carmaker expects net income of 1 billion rubles
in 2010 under Russian accounting standards. AvtoVAZ had nine-
month net income of 622 million rubles, he said.  Russia has offered to acquire part of the French
government’s 15 percent Renault stake if the carmaker increases
its holding in AvtoVAZ, Prime Minister Putin said in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ekaterina Shatalova  in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  