-- Republicans Win House, Get No Mandate in Poll Favoring Clinton
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2010-10-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/republicans-winning-house-get-no-mandate-in-poll-showing-clinton-approval.html
Republicans are poised to retake the
U.S. House next week without a mandate from voters to carry out
their policies, a Bloomberg National Poll shows.  The minority party, whose supporters are more motivated and
enthusiastic, leads 47 percent to 44 percent when likely voters
are asked how they plan to vote in their congressional election,
according to the poll conducted Oct. 24-26. The margin is wide
enough that if it holds over the next five days it likely would
give Republicans the net 39-seat gain needed to capture the
House.  At the same time, voters either are divided about or
opposed to the policies and approach that Republicans have said
they would offer once in control, particularly on cutting
spending; voters also want the parties to work together.  President  Barack Obama ’s campaigning isn’t helping
Democrats, the poll shows, with a majority saying it makes no
difference and almost one-fourth saying his efforts on behalf of
his party actually make them more likely to vote Republican.
Another Democrat, former President  Bill Clinton , may be helping,
as he outscores other politicians tested on popularity by a wide
margin.  “The Democrats are not in an enviable position going in,
but if Republicans are victorious, they can’t afford to just sit
still,” said J.  Ann Selzer , president of  Selzer & Co. , a Des
Moines, Iowa-based firm that conducted the nationwide survey.
“There is an expectation that if you change captains of the
ship, things will go in a better direction.”  Anti-Washington Wave  Poll respondents reflected the anti-Washington sentiment
that has placed many lawmakers on the firing line this election
season.  “I think anyone who is in there, we need to throw their
ass out,” said poll participant Earl Minick, 69, a retired
state and federal worker in Frankfort, Kentucky, who considers
himself an independent voter. “They have gone on spending
binges and they don’t care about the public.”  In a cautionary note, voters overwhelmingly say they don’t
want a Republican takeover to result in gridlock in Congress.
Four-fifths say they want Republicans and Democrats to work
together to get things done, as opposed to rigidly sticking to
principles.  This may pose a dilemma for Republicans who ran on a
 platform of change  and even confrontation. Respondents who
identify with the Tea Party were most likely to say they wanted
the parties to keep to their principles, though even in that
group this was the minority view, held by 33 percent.  Independent Voters  The favorable political landscape for Republicans in the
closing days of the campaign is largely the result of support
from independent voters. They back Republicans over Democrats,
47 percent to 34 percent. That advantage stands in contrast with
the  2008 presidential election , when Obama won by an eight-point
margin with independents, exit polls showed.  One independent poll respondent, David Mullins, a 59-year-
old airline pilot from Indian Trail, North Carolina, says he is
voting for Republicans this year, even though he doesn’t expect
the party to make tough decisions.  “I don’t have any love for the Republicans,” Mullins
said. “They can’t cut Medicare and  Social Security ; they can’t
cut the military.”  Besides independents, Republicans are seeing their
strongest support among men, senior citizens and those with
incomes of more than $100,000. Democrats have their strongest
support among many of the same groups that helped Obama win in
2008: younger voters, women, those with incomes below $25,000
and non-whites.  Obama’s Popularity  In the poll, Obama is viewed favorably by 49 percent of
likely voters and unfavorably by 48 percent. Women are more
likely than men to see him in a positive light, 55 percent to 43
percent.  The most motivated voters -- respondents who say they will
definitely go to the polls and consider the election to be
exceptionally important -- lean toward Republican candidates
rather than Democrats, 59 percent to 35 percent. Also, 48
percent of Republicans say the election is “exceptionally
important,” compared with 32 percent of Democrats and 36
percent of independents.  The overall Republican advantage in the poll, if projected
onto individual races nationally, would almost certainly
translate into a House majority.  Divided on Parties  The poll finds Republicans in an unusual position: on the
brink of making political gains while the party and its policies
are unpopular. Likely voters are evenly divided on the
Republican Party, with 47 percent holding a positive opinion.  This contrasts with midterm elections in 1994, when the
insurgent Republicans gained congressional control after polls
showed voter attitudes tilting toward them. Before that
election, the party had a 7 point advantage in positive ratings
among registered voters, according to the NBC News/Wall Street
Journal poll.  Republicans have said they want to cut $100 billion from
the federal budget as early as January. That would amount to 21
percent of the government’s so-called discretionary  spending  and
target programs such as college loans for low-income students or
medical research at the National Institutes of Health.  Less than one-third of poll respondents -- 31 percent --
say they support cutting federal spending in areas such as
education and health care, excluding Social Security,  Medicare 
and defense.  Bush-Era Tax Cuts  On other Republican priorities, bare majorities of likely
voters say they support the repeal of the health-care overhaul
passed earlier this year or extending the Bush-era tax cuts for
all, including those with the highest incomes.  A Bloomberg poll earlier this month found narrow support
for health-care repeal alongside strong backing for most of the
law’s provisions, including its ban on insurance companies
denying coverage due to pre-existing conditions, allowing
children up to age 26 to stay on their parents’ policies and the
addition of more prescription-drug benefits for those on
Medicare.  Voters aren’t overwhelmingly embracing Republican views on
the economy, either: the poll shows they are divided on whether
Obama’s economic policies need more time to work or whether a
complete change of course is needed.  Obama, 49, inherited an economy in crisis. Joblessness,
which reached a 26-year high of 10.1 percent in October 2009,
stood at  9.6 percent  nationwide last month. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index is up almost  47 percent  since Obama took office
in January 2009, though it’s risen only  6 percent  this year.  Final Weekend Campaigning  In his recent campaign appearances, Obama has pointed to
Republicans as being the party that drove the economy off the
road. The president is trying to rally the Democratic base to
blunt the Republican wave in the Nov. 2 elections and plans to
spend the final weekend of the campaign in urban Democratic
strongholds in Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Illinois and Ohio.  There is no clear consensus on which party deserves more
blame for the economy’s problems, or how best to fix them, the
poll shows. On the economy, Democrats and Republicans are blamed
equally for the nation’s plight.  Reflecting how some state-level polls on specific races
have tightened in recent days, Democrats are seeing some success
in the home stretch. Among those who say they waited until
October to make their voting decision, Democrats have the
advantage, 52 percent to 37 percent.  Optimistic Republicans  Those likely to vote Republican are much more optimistic
about the outcome of the election, with 42 percent of likely
Republican voters saying they are optimistic, compared with 18
percent of likely Democratic voters. Just 4 percent of
Republican voters say they are pessimistic. Overall, 73 percent
of voters say they are either optimistic or reasonably hopeful
about the election’s outcome.  There is no partisan split when it comes to anonymous money
flowing into political advertising. Sixty-four percent of voters
say groups that engage in political activity should be required
to disclose their donors. Tax-exempt outside groups, many of
them opposed to Obama’s health-care and tax policies, are
spending millions to help Republicans this year.  The Bloomberg National Poll, which included interviews with
1,000 likely voters in the November 2010 general election, has a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  The Tea Party is less popular than the traditional
political parties, with just 39 percent of voters saying they
have a favorable view, compared with about half of voters who
feel that way about the Republican and Democratic parties.  Tea Party in Congress  Just 29 percent of voters say it will be a change for the
better if candidates supported by the Tea Party are elected in
November, down from 33 percent in early October. Overall, 30
percent of voters consider themselves supporters of the
movement.  Almost half of likely voters say they oppose a national
moratorium on home foreclosures amid a joint investigation by
attorneys general in all 50 states that seeks to determine
whether banks and loan servicers used false documents and
signatures to justify foreclosures. Just more than one-third say
they favor a moratorium, while 14 percent were unsure.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , who is in a tight re-
election fight against a Tea Party-affiliated Republican in
Nevada, is among several Democrats who have urged lenders to
halt foreclosures because of questions about paperwork
processing. The Obama administration opposes a nationwide freeze
because it could further damage the housing market by holding up
sales, spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said Oct. 12.  Republican House Speaker  Representative  John Boehner  of Ohio, the presumptive House
speaker should Republicans gain control of the chamber, is
viewed favorably by 37 percent of respondents and unfavorably by
37 percent. A quarter of likely voters still say they don’t know
enough about him to render an opinion. As Boehner has received
more media attention in recent weeks, his favorability has
increased slightly more than his unfavorability, compared with a
Bloomberg poll in early October.  House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  of California, who Republicans
assail as a profligate tax-and-spend Democrat, is viewed
favorably by 33 percent of likely voters and unfavorably by 55
percent.  Making even more campaign appearances on behalf of
Democrats than Obama has been former President Clinton. That’s
for good reason. The 42nd president is viewed favorably by 59
percent of likely voters, including 55 percent of independents.  “He was a scoundrel, but he didn’t make any bones about
it,” said Minick, the poll participant from Kentucky. “I think
he had some common sense.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Washington at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  