-- Rob Kalin on Crafting Etsy's Next Move
-- B y   M e g   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-10-28T17:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/rob-kalin-on-crafting-etsy-s-next-move.html
Five years after launching handmade-goods
marketplace Etsy out of his Brooklyn, N.Y., apartment, co-
founder and chief executive officer Rob Kalin wants to expand the
150-person company’s reach overseas while keeping its community
feel intact. In August, Etsy hired a former Google executive as
chief operating officer and closed a $20 million venture capital
round. Now, the company is investing in improving customer
support and recruiting more top talent.  With some 5 million members, Etsy’s revenue was $15 million to
$20 million in 2009, says Kalin, 30, and he expects around $40
million this year. He spoke recently with Bloomberg.com
contributor Meg Shannon about lessons learned, rumors of an IPO,
and hiring strategy. Edited excerpts of their conversations
follow.  Meg Shannon: Etsy became profitable this year. How would you
describe the first five years of its life?  Rob Kalin: It’s been an incredible education. There is only so
much you can learn through the MBA. You have to learn how to run
a business by running a business. There are a lot of mistakes
you have to learn personally before you learn the lessons.  Q: What’s one lesson you’ve learned?  A: Relationships with people are what drive the growth of a
business. It’s kind of tempting to put people behind a moniker
like “customer.” Keep it human. That’s a rallying cry at Etsy.
Let people be true to who they are.  It was a personal pursuit, not building the business for
[business] itself. That shows. And that leads into the two most
important traits entrepreneurs need to have. The ability to do
many things well. And to have really, really good taste. It
can’t be something you just slap on. That’s what I love about
Etsy, how personal it is.  Another lesson learned is patience. We are one-third of the way
where I kind of imagined [we’d be].  Q: You started out as CEO, then Maria Thomas took the helm. You
came back on as CEO in December after a 1.5-year stint in which
you served as chief creative officer. Now you’re in the corner
office again. How does it feel?  A: I was never in the corner office. It is literally a closet. I
took the one unused room. It has no windows and it’s about 90
degrees.  Q: Etsy announced the hiring of Adam Freed, former director of
international product management at Google, as chief operating
officer on August 27, the same day you announced another round
of venture funding of $20 million. What led you to him?  A: Caterina Fake [the co-founder of Flickr] had recommended him. We
knew within the first two minutes. Going by your gut is
important. The reliance upon a résumé is fading. It saddens me
to see the importance of the resume -- it’s so easy to make bad
hires. Peripherally, it’s getting a sense of who he is as a
person. I want a co-pilot. As Myers [the Myers-Briggs
personality test] says, I am an “i” for solitude and he’s an “e”
for energy. You need both things to make a business run well.  Q: There have been reports that Etsy will do an IPO next year.
Will you?  A: To me, I like the idea of community ownership. I think that
the company is part of the larger community -- 5 million
members. The only reason an IPO interests me at all is to be
community owners. I have no interest in having people on Wall
Street determining the value of my company. There is no way we
are ready for an IPO next year. There’s a lot more to do before
I’m comfortable with that. Maybe three to four years. It’s not
something we have complete control over, either; the climate --
it needs to be the right climate. We don’t need to do it to
raise money.  Q: You acquired ad platform company Adtuitive in December and
announced that the five programmers retained would be working on
improving Etsy’s search algorithms and expanding Showcase, the
company’s on-site ad system. What are your plans for advertising
within Etsy?  A: We have no plans for third-party ads. The Showcase is in need
of an overhaul. They are working on the underpinnings for our ad
system, making sure it is not invasive and is effective and
respectful. We are not focused on revenue for this year. There’s
a pressing need for the bottom line, but on the other hand we
don’t want an inferior product.  Q: Talk about Etsy’s current valuation.  A: It’s $300 million -- with A, B, C, D, and E funding -- as
valued by our latest investment from Index Ventures. But that
doesn’t really interest me. The value that Etsy provides to its
shareholders and community is much, much longer-term. [People
involved with] Etsy are on board for the long haul. It will
outlive me and everyone working there.  Q: What areas is the company investing in?  A: Where aren’t we investing would be easier to answer. Right
now, Etsy sales are about 75 percent in the United States. We
are thinking how Etsy can be a global marketplace. EBay
segregates by country. It would be different to build one
unifying global marketplace. Behind the scenes, that would mean
currency conversions, localization, translation, but then the
people in Germany would still feel like they are getting
something. The community side is more interesting.  The top three things we are investing in: customer support,
“internationalization,” recruiting top engineering talent.  Q: Do you see social networking as a part of your expansion
strategy?  A: Yes, in the basic way. We have 1 million followers on
Twitter. We are sending information out, and that’s a good use
of that. We work with YouTube. We invest in our blog -- the
handmade video portraits. These are three- to five-minute
portraits. For instance, one is on a woman who makes guitars.
There’s the range of Etsy. It’s about telling the story of the
person. It’s not around to brand Etsy.  Q: Do you think in these tough economic times, people see
handmade crafts almost like comfort foods?  A: Yes. When there is economic hardship, people reassess what
value means. One is the Wal-Mart, McDonald’s, and just looking
at the price and convenience. Then there’s this idea of value.
If your house is on fire, what do you rescue? It’s not your TV.
It’s going to be a family heirloom, a book. That type of value
is much more interesting and it’s very prevalent.  Q: You said earlier that Etsy is one-third of the way there. Is
there a point when you’ll know Etsy is all the way there?  A: Etsy will never be all the way there, I’m sure. It will
always be a work in progress. Right now our scale is quite small
-- 5 million members. This is one-hundredth the size of
Facebook. I believe Etsy can be just as large as Facebook.  To contact the reporter on this story: Meg Shannon at
 mshannon000@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  