-- Rubber Pares Losses on Supply Concerns Amid Worst Thai Floods in 50 Years
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-10-28T08:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/rubber-declines-for-second-day-on-concern-china-may-adjust-trading-rules.html
Rubber pared an earlier drop as
Thailand’s most severe floods in five decades raised concerns
that supply will likely tighten, boosting prices.  The April-delivery contract settled little changed at 336.8
yen per kilogram ($4,145 a metric ton) on the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange after declining as much as 0.9 percent. Rubber has
climbed 8.2 percent this month on concern that rain in major
producing countries will cut production amid robust demand.
Futures surged 22 percent this year.  “Rain continues in southern Thailand and other producing
countries, disrupting latex tapping and lowering production,”
Umaporn Thepnuan, senior marketing official at Future Agri Trade
Co., said by phone from Bangkok.  Cyclones and heavier-than-normal monsoon rains have deluged
parts of Southeast Asia this month, killing hundreds of people
in key rubber-producing countries. Heavy rain may cause flash
floods and landslides in 15 southern provinces in Thailand
before the end of the month, the Department of Disaster
Prevention and Mitigation warned. About 68 percent of rubber
plantation areas are in the country’s south.  A natural-rubber supply shortage will likely “worsen” in
the fourth quarter as unseasonal rainfall continues to disrupt
production from key growers,  the Association of Natural Rubber
Producing Countries  said.  Global rubber production this year is unlikely to increase
more than 5.3 percent to 9.4 million tons, from a previous
forecast of 6.3 percent, the association said. A further cut in
output is expected because of tapping disruptions in Malaysia,
Thailand and India, the group said.  Output Falls  Output in Thailand, the largest producer and exporter, is
estimated to fall 3.9 percent in the fourth quarter to 933,000
tons, the group said in a monthly bulletin.  Output in China and India is expected to contract during
October to December because of heavy rain, the group said. India
has scaled down its production forecast this year to 844,000
tons from 879,000 tons estimated earlier, while China cut its
2010 output forecast to 641,000 tons, a decline of 0.3 percent
from the previous year, the group said.  “This is positive for rubber prices because supply is
declining as China and Japan build up stockpiles, ahead of
wintering season when producers stop tapping,” Sureerat
Kunthongjun, analyst at AGROW Enterprise Ltd., said by phone
from Bangkok. Futures may extend their rally to 357 yen, the
highest level since June 2008, by the end of the year, she said.  Shanghai Soars  The auctioned price of unsmoked rubber sheet in Thailand
rose 0.2 percent to 109.76 baht ($3.66) a kilogram as investors
are worried over supply shortages amid persistent purchases from
China, the Rubber Research Institute of Thailand said on its
website today. Prices will likely climb further, it said.  Shanghai futures advanced as much as 4.1 percent to 32,495
yuan ($4,858) a ton before closing at 32,320 yuan. The contract,
which reached a record 33,320 yuan Oct. 26, slumped as much as
4.4 percent yesterday on concerns that China, the largest buyer,
may impose stringent measures to limit speculation and lower
commodity prices.  “Investors are still worried the Chinese government may
impose measures to reduce high prices of commodities,” Gu Jiong,
analyst at broker Yutaka Shoji Co., said by phone from Tokyo.  The Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange increased the margin
requirement on Oct. 26 for rice, rapeseed oil, wheat and sugar
trading to 8 percent from 3 percent or 4 percent. The exchange
will track “abnormal” trading and recommend investigation by
watchdogs, a separate statement dated Oct. 25 said.  China’s increased liquidity after the financial crisis and
government curbs on property investments have stoked commodity
prices. In the past five months, cotton in Zhengzhou advanced 59
percent, rubber in Shanghai gained 48 percent, while Dalian
soybean oil rose 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  