-- Sales Reach an 18-Month Peak Driving Yields to Two-Month High: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-28T04:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/sales-reach-18-month-peak-driving-yields-to-two-month-high-muni-credit.html
State and local debt sales swelled
to an 18-month peak of $13.8 billion, overwhelming investor
demand and sending municipal bond yields to the highest level in
more than two months.  Ten-year tax-exempt  yields climbed for the third straight
day yesterday, reaching 2.52 percent, the highest since Aug. 10,
according to a benchmark Bloomberg Valuation index. Tax-exempt
rates climbed 17 basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, the
biggest one-day jump since March 11, 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The scheduled sales this week are the  most since  the five-
day period ended April 24, 2009. The Bond Buyer’s  visible-supply
index  of new municipal issues to be offered during the next 30
days reached $17.5 billion this week, the highest in a month.
The muni sell-off also came as 10-year Treasuries slid for a
sixth day.  The sizable and diverse muni calendar coupled with weakness
in the Treasury market has “sent investors to the sidelines,”
said  Evan Rourke , a portfolio manager with Boston-based Eaton
Vance Corp.  The decline in 10-year  Treasury  notes, the longest in two
years, followed a report showing new-home sales rose more than
forecast. The figure added to selling pressure on speculation a
Federal Reserve program to boost the economy by buying
securities will be gradual.  “We’re being driven by Treasuries,” said  Mark Steffen ,
chief operating officer at White Plains, New York-based Belle
Haven Investments, which oversees $450 million in munis. “If
Treasuries are getting whacked, it doesn’t take a lot for the
other fixed-income asset classes to take a time out.”  Bay Area  San Francisco’s  Bay Area Toll Authority  led tax-exempt
issuers this week with a $410 million sale yesterday, while  New
York City Transitional Finance Authority ’s $700 million in
federally subsidized Build America Bonds was the biggest taxable
offer.  “Deals are still getting done,” said Steffen. “People
are moving out on the yield curve and down on the credit curve
to produce the income they need.”  The Oakland, California-based bridge operator, whose
offering is backed by a subordinate lien on toll revenue and
graded fifth-highest by Standard & Poor’s at A+, priced bonds
maturing in October 2030 to yield 4.38 percent. That’s about 99
basis points above  top-rated debt , according to the 20-year
Bloomberg Valuation index. That compares with an average yield
of  4.57 percent  on 20-year transportation-revenue bonds with the
same rating, according to a Bloomberg Fair Market Value index.  “If the Treasury market continues to trade weaker, there’s
nothing compelling investors to trade,” said Rourke, who helps
oversee almost $10 billion in assets at Eaton Vance.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  DALLAS-FORT WORTH INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, the world’s
 eighth-busiest  by passenger traffic, plans to sell $301 million
of tax-exempt debt as soon as this week to finance its terminal
improvement program. The revenue-backed bonds are graded fifth-
highest at A1 by Moody’s Investors Service, and A+ by both S&P
and Fitch Ratings, which downgraded the debt one level from AA-
on Oct. 25. Underwriters led by Jefferies Group Inc. will market
the securities. (Added Oct. 25)  ATLANTA, home to the world’s busiest airport with 88
million passengers a year, plans to sell about $590 million in
tax-exempts as soon as next week to help finance a new terminal
at  Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport . About $176
million of the bonds will be backed by a senior lien on general
airport revenue, rated A+ by Fitch, fifth-highest, with about
$414 million secured by a “passenger facility” charge and a
subordinate lien on airport revenue, rated A, sixth-highest.
Underwriters led by JPMorgan Chase & Co. will market the issue
to investors. (Updated Oct. 28)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 