-- Sanofi Hears No `Substance' From Genzyme, Stays Firm on Bid
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2010-10-28T11:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/sanofi-aventis-raises-2010-profit-forecast-as-lovenox-resists-generics.html
Sanofi-Aventis SA  said Genzyme
Corp.’s revised profit forecasts and efforts to put a value on
its stable of experimental drugs have failed to persuade the
French drugmaker to sweeten its $18.5 billion offer.  Genzyme Chief Executive Officer  Henri Termeer  last week
told investors the U.S. biotechnology company was trying to
assess its value and gauge outside interest. He estimated
Genzyme could be worth $89 a share after lifting its forecast.  “There was a great deal of data presented,” Viehbacher
told reporters on a conference call today as Sanofi reported
earnings. “We didn’t hear anything of substance that would
cause us to change our $69-per-share offer.”  Viehbacher, who’s looking for new products to replace
revenue Sanofi is losing as some of its best-selling treatments
face generic competition, ruled out raising his offer to $80 a
share. Genzyme’s refusal to negotiate with Sanofi even as it
reaches out to other potential bidders is “a bit of a game of
hide and seek in my view,” he said.  Sanofi took its offer for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Genzyme hostile on Oct. 4 after the largest maker of medicines
for rare genetic disorders spurned the bid as too low.  Viehbacher and Termeer have sparred over the process, the
price and even what was said when they met on Sept. 20. Termeer,
in a regulatory filing, said Viehbacher had provided a possible
price range of $69 to $80 a share for Genzyme. Viehbacher denied
making such a proposal again today. “We have never made an
offer of any sort of that nature,” he told reporters.  ‘Wiggle Room’  “If each stands his ground, they won’t be able to initiate
discussions,” said  Eric Le Berrigaud , an analyst at Raymond
James in Paris. “Between $69 and $80, there is some wiggle
room.”  Sanofi rose less than 1 percent to 49.93 euros at 1:02 p.m.
in Paris trading, after gaining as much as 2 percent earlier in
the day. Before today, the stock had fallen 5.5 percent this
year including reinvested dividends,  compared with  a 7.2 percent
return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  The French drugmaker today raised its profit forecast for
the year, saying  earnings per share  growth will probably be
between unchanged and up 2 percent at constant exchange rates,
and said third-quarter profit rose 8.9 percent to 2.47 billion
euros ($3.41 billion).  Sales fell 1.7 percent at constant exchange rates as demand
declined for the blood thinners Plavix and Lovenox, which
together bring in more than 1 billion euros in quarterly revenue
and both face generic competition.  Constructive Discussions  Genzyme’s drugs  are less likely to face generic competitors
because they’re made using biological processes and are harder
to copy than pills made from chemicals. The FDA designated the
therapies as orphan drugs because they’re for diseases without
other treatment options, giving them more patent protection.  Sanofi said in August its offer valued Genzyme at 20 times
projected 2011 earnings. Genzyme last week raised its earnings
per share estimate for next year to between $4.30 and $4.60. On
that valuation, the biotech company said it would be worth about
$22.7 billion, or $89 a share.  Genzyme shareholders can “choose to buy into the company’s
rosy forecasts, complete with the many risks that still exist,”
or they can “choose the more immediate, certain and compelling
value inherent in our offer,” Viehbacher said today. “Our
preference remains to sit down and hold constructive
discussions.”  Hostile Takeover  Some of last week’s presentation by Genzyme management
“confirmed our assumptions as well as the market’s view about
the company and its future and some of it quite frankly seemed
totally unrealistic,” according to Viehbacher.  Bo Piela , a spokesman for Genzyme, said he had no immediate
comments on Viehbacher’s remarks.  Sanofi’s offer for Genzyme expires Dec. 10. It would be the
biggest hostile takeover in the drug industry since the
transaction that created Sanofi-Aventis in 2004, according to
Bloomberg data. Sanofi-Synthelabo acquired Aventis for about $64
billion after raising its bid once.  Sanofi has spent about $17 billion on acquisitions since
Viehbacher joined in 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Its December acquisition of Chattem Inc. allowed it
to gain entry to the U.S. consumer health market. The company
said today it completed the acquisition of Nepentes, a Polish
manufacturer of drugs and dermocosmetics, in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  