-- Schwarzman Says Fed Easing Won't Make Much Difference
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-10-28T16:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/schwarzman-says-more-fed-easing-won-t-make-much-difference.html
Stephen Schwarzman , chief executive
officer of  Blackstone Group LP , the world’s biggest buyout firm,
said another round of asset purchases by the U.S. Federal
Reserve won’t have much of an impact on companies.  “It’s not an enormous incentive to do something different
with your businesses because rates are down a few basis
points,” Schwarzman, 63, said yesterday in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s  Margaret Brennan  at the UBS Wealth
Management Roundtable in New York. “Money’s already quite
cheap.”  With their benchmark interest rate near zero, Fed policy
makers meet Nov. 2-3 to consider steps to boost an economy
that’s growing too slowly to reduce unemployment near a 26-year
high. The central bank has asked bond dealers and investors for
projections of central bank asset purchases over the next six
months, along with the likely effect on yields, as it seeks to
gauge the possible impact of new efforts to spur growth.  Schwarzman joins hedge-fund managers  Paul Tudor Jones ,
 Clifford Asness  and  Colm O’Shea  in casting doubt on the
effectiveness of more so-called quantitative easing. Asness, who
runs Greenwich, Connecticut-based AQR Capital Management LLC,
said he doesn’t expect any long-term effects from such a move.  “Us printing money to buy our own bonds I don’t think can
matter long term,” Asness said this week in an interview with
Bloomberg News at the Buttonwood Gathering, a conference
organized by The Economist magazine in New York.  Credibility Risk  Paul Tudor Jones , founder of the $11.5 billion hedge-fund
firm Tudor Investment Corp. in Greenwich, Connecticut, said in
an investor letter last week that a revaluation of China’s
renminbi would do more to cut unemployment than asset purchases
by the Fed.  Colm O’Shea , who runs London-based hedge fund Comac
Capital LLP, told investors in August that the Fed would “risk
its credibility” with a second round of quantitative easing.  Jeremy Grantham , chief investment officer of Grantham Mayo
Van Otterloo & Co. in Boston, said in a quarterly letter to
investors that the Fed’s quantitative easing will be a “more
desperate maneuver than the typical low-rate policy.”  Estimates for the size of the purchase range from $1
trillion at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch Global Research to $2
trillion at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Both firms say the Fed will
start by announcing $500 billion in purchases after the Nov. 2-3
meeting.  ‘Counter-Stimulative’  William Dudley , president of the New York Fed and vice
chairman of the Federal Open Market Committee, set expectations
of about $500 billion for a new round of quantitative easing, or
QE, a figure he used in an Oct. 1 speech.  Tony James , president of New York-based Blackstone, said
today he wasn’t convinced pushing borrowing costs lower would
have a positive effect on the economy.  “I don’t see that lower rates are going to encourage
American industry to borrow and build,” James said today on a
conference call with reporters. “It has a counter-stimulative
effect. I don’t think it works.”  Schwarzman said the Dodd-Frank Act, a regulatory overhaul
enacted this year that expanded the Fed’s authority to oversee
non-bank financial firms deemed “too big to fail,” will
prolong the period of slow growth and will “depress the level
of recovery” of the U.S. economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Marcinek  in New York 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 