-- Seven French Refineries Ready to Resume Processing; Await Crude Supplies
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2010-10-28T14:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/seven-french-refineries-ready-to-resume-processing-await-oil.html
Seven oil refineries in France are
ready to resume processing as soon as crude supplies become
available from ships stranded by month-long port strikes.  “The refiners are back at work but they cannot operate
because they don’t have any crude oil,” Yves le Goff, a
spokesman for refiner’s group UFIP, said by phone today from
Paris.  France’s 11 refineries can process 1.84 million barrels of
oil a day, according to Bloomberg data. Plants such as Total
SA’s La Mede facility began halting production as early as Oct.
10 amid protests that began at ports on Sept. 27, before
escalating over President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s pension reform.  Workers at the oil terminal of Marseille on France’s
southern coast were on strike today leaving 38 crude carriers
and 20 refined product vessels stranded, according to an e-
mailed statement from port officials.  Total’s La Mede plant in the south is in the preliminary
stages of start-up following the end of strike action,  Michael Crochet-Vourey , a company spokesman, said yesterday. The
company’s other facilities remain halted amid countrywide
protests.  Workers at Petroplus Holdings AG’s Petit Couronne site
voted yesterday to return to work and fuel deliveries have
resumed, Sevillane Lambret, a CFDT union representative said
today by phone. Staff at the company’s other French plant at
Reichstett agreed to return to work at the beginning of the week
and production remained halted because of limited oil feedstock.  Swiss Halt  Petroplus was forced to start closing its Cressier refinery
in Switzerland because of a lack of crude, the company said on
Oct. 26. The plant relies on oil from France via a pipeline.  Ineos AG started to reduce production to “stand-by” mode
at its Lavera refinery and petrochemical site in the south of
France because of limited raw materials, the company said on
Oct. 25. “We’re keeping the assets warm and when we get the
crude, we’ll ramp up production,”  Richard Longden , a U.K.-based
Ineos spokesman, said yesterday.  Exxon Mobil Corp. said yesterday its employees wouldn’t
take part in today’s nationwide protests over the government’s
plan to increase the minimum age of retirement to 62 from 60.
The company’s 233,000 barrel-a-day Gravenchon refinery, which
depends on crude supplies from the port of Le Havre, was waiting
for shipments, and its 119,000 barrel-a-day Fos facility in the
south of France was running at reduced rates, said  Catherine Brun , an Exxon spokeswoman. Both sites had resumed fuel
deliveries.  The following table shows the status of French refineries,
ranked by processing capacity in barrels a day. The Cressier
plant in Switzerland is the only one outside France affected by
the strikes as it gets crude supplies via pipeline from Fos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nidaa Bakhsh  in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  