-- Shell Warns Repercussions of U.S.Drilling Moratorium Could Last Into 2012
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2010-10-28T10:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/shell-says-repercussions-of-u-s-drilling-moratorium-could-last-into-2012.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Europe’s
largest oil company, warned that the knock-on effects of the
temporary ban on new deep-water drilling in the Gulf of Mexico
could last for the next two years.  Shell  has booked charges of $115 million to date after
idling rigs and expects further losses in the fourth quarter,
Chief Financial Officer  Simon Henry  said today. Daily  output 
from the region, which accounts for about a third of Shell’s
total production in the Americas, will be 40,000 barrels less
than previously expected in 2011.  “The moratorium and the delay to our drilling program is
an opportunity lost,” Henry said on a conference call after
Shell reported earnings that beat analyst estimates for the
third straight quarter.  Earlier this month, the U.S. Interior Department issued new
safety regulations and lifted the moratorium put in place after
BP Plc’s Macondo well disaster. Shell pumped the equivalent of
230,000 barrels of oil a day in the first nine months of the
year in the Gulf of Mexico, about 10,000 barrels a day less than
would have been the case without the ban. “There could be a
further impact in 2012,” Henry said.  Shell is the first of Europe’s biggest oil companies to
have reported  earnings . It was followed by  Eni SpA , Italy’s
largest energy producer, which reported a 48 percent increase in
adjusted net income to 1.70 billion euros ($2.35 billion)
because of higher oil prices.  Total SA  is scheduled to post
results tomorrow and BP on Nov. 2.  Above Estimates  Excluding one-time items and inventory changes, Shell
earned $4.9 billion in the third quarter. That beat the $4.3
billion mean estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Net income rose to $3.46 billion from $3.25 billion a year
earlier, The Hague-based company said in a statement.  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said in a statement
that Shell is in a “delivery window” with 13 new projects that
will be started this year and next. Shell is reversing a seven-
year  decline  in output at the same time BP struggles to recover
from the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  “This is an excellent set of results,” said  Peter Hutton ,
head of research at NCB Stockbrokers Ltd. in London. “It more
than delivers on the expectation of momentum.”  Shell is targeting hard-to-reach rock formations in
Australia, the U.S. and China, as well as projects in Qatar.
Third-quarter production rose 5 percent to 3.058 million barrels
of oil equivalent a day from 2.917 million barrels a year
earlier.  LNG Sales  Liquefied natural-gas sales volumes increased to 4.26
million tons, with Shell citing “major contributions” from the
Sakhalin II LNG project in Russia and Nigeria LNG.  Shell’s Class A shares traded in London rose 0.9 percent to
1,994.5 pence as of 11:20 a.m. The stock is  up  6.3 percent this
year, compared with a 29 percent decline for BP, which at one
point lost more than half its market value as the costs of
cleaning up the oil spill escalated.  Oil futures averaged $76.21 a barrel in the quarter, a 12
percent increase from a year earlier, and natural-gas futures
rose 23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fred Pals  in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  