-- Shell Reports Increase in Profit as Oil Prices Climb
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2010-10-28T15:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/shell-reports-7-increase-in-third-quarter-profit-as-price-of-oil-climbs.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Europe’s
largest oil company, posted earnings that beat analyst estimates
for the third straight quarter after a 22 percent increase in
liquefied natural-gas sales.  Excluding one-time items and inventory changes, Shell
earned $4.9 billion in the third quarter. That beat the $4.3
billion mean  estimate  of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said Shell is in a
“delivery window” for growth after expanding an oilsands
venture in Canada and taking final investment decisions on
deepwater projects in the Gulf of Mexico and Brazil. Shell is
reversing a seven-year  decline  in output as BP Plc struggles to
recover from the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  “This is an excellent set of results,” said  Peter Hutton ,
head of research at NCB Stockbrokers Ltd. in London. “It more
than delivers on the expectation of momentum.”  Net income rose to $3.46 billion from $3.25 billion a year
earlier, The Hague-based company said in a statement today.  Shell is the first of Europe’s biggest oil companies to
report  earnings . It will be followed by  Total SA  tomorrow and BP
on Nov. 2. Exxon Mobil Corp., the largest U.S. oil company, is
scheduled to report results later today. ConocoPhillips, the
third-largest U.S. oil producer, said yesterday that net income
more than doubled to $3.06 billion.  Higher Output  Shell is targeting hard-to-reach rock formations in
Australia, the U.S. and China, as well as projects in Qatar.
Third-quarter production rose 5 percent to 3.058 million barrels
of oil equivalent a day from 2.917 million barrels a year
earlier.  LNG sales volumes increased to 4.26 million tons, with
Shell citing “major contributions” from the Sakhalin II LNG
project in Russia and Nigeria LNG.  Shell’s Class A shares traded in London rose 0.5 percent to
1,987 pence as of the 4:30 p.m. close. The stock is  up  5.6
percent this year, compared with a 30 percent decline for BP,
which at one point lost more than half its market value as the
costs of cleaning up the Gulf of Mexico oil spill escalated.  Voser is accelerating asset sales of as much as $8 billion
this year and next, and has cut 7,000  jobs  and reduced exposure
to the less profitable downstream business. Yesterday, Shell
agreed to sell most of its refining and marketing business in
Sweden and Finland to a major shareholder of Finnish energy
company St1 Oy for $640 million.  Canadian Expansion  Last month, Shell started production at the 100,000 barrel-
a-day expansion of its Athabasca oil sands  development  in
Canada, while its BC-10 offshore block in Brazil reached
production of 95,000 barrels a day. The producer plans to
increase production of heavy crude by 60 percent in the Americas
through 2020 and also applied to drill a well off Alaska next
year. The $19 billion Pearl gas-to-liquids plant in Qatar will
be fully operational in the first quarter of 2012.  “Shell is now that much closer to getting Qatar GTL on
stream,” said  Iain Armstrong , an analyst at broker Brewin
Dolphin Ltd. in London. “BP risks getting left in the
wilderness.”  Oil futures averaged $76.21 a barrel in the quarter, a 12
percent increase from a year earlier, and natural-gas futures
rose 23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fred Pals  in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  