-- Shinsei Bank Said to Plan Cuts to Pay, Benefits for Some Staff in Japan
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2010-10-28T07:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/shinsei-bank-said-to-plan-cuts-to-pay-benefits-for-some-staff-in-japan.html
Shinsei Bank Ltd. , the Japanese
lender partly owned by J.  Christopher Flowers , plans to reduce
pay and benefits for some of its bankers to trim costs, said two
people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Shinsei will cut pay and benefits including housing and
school fees for the employees, according to the people, who
declined to be identified as the information is private. The
cuts will affect about 100 staff, one of the people said.
Employees received an e-mail yesterday detailing the cuts.  The cost reductions come four months after the bank, which
is partly owned by the government, replaced foreign executives
following two years of  losses , a failed merger and government
criticism of the company’s compensation policy. The lender is
under pressure from the Financial Services Agency to limit
salaries and bonuses at about $230,000 a year, with exemptions
for some executives, the Financial Times reported on Sept. 17.  “Reducing wages is one of the things they must do,” said
 Hironari Nozaki , a Tokyo-based analyst at Citigroup Inc. The
move will allow Shinsei to reduce costs even though people may
end up leaving the firm, he said.  Eiji Otaka , a spokesman for Tokyo-based Shinsei, declined
to comment.  Shinsei has the highest employee benefits among 109
Japanese banks, according to Tokyo Shoko Research Ltd. Average
annual pay at Shinsei is 8.49 million yen ($104,000), 2 percent
higher than Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and 5.9 percent more
than  Aozora Bank Ltd. , Tokyo Shoko said in a report published on
Aug. 10.  Shinsei, which scrapped its plan to merge with Aozora in
May, posted losses in excess of 140 billion yen in each of the
past two years, after taking charges on overseas investments and
its consumer-lending business.  The company’s  shares  closed unchanged at 63 yen on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange. They have lost 38 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net ;
 Kathleen Chu  in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  