-- Sihuan Pharma Rises in Hong Kong Trading Debut After $741 Million Offering
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-10-28T04:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/sihuan-pharma-rises-in-hong-kong-trading-debut-after-741-million-offering.html
Sihuan Pharmaceutical Holdings Group
Ltd.  surged on its Hong Kong trading debut after a HK$5.75
billion ($741 million) initial public offering to investors
including George Soros as it raised funds for acquisitions.  Sihuan, which sells treatments for heart disease and stroke
in China, traded at HK$5.87 as of 11:34 a.m., 28 percent higher
than the HK$4.60 a share it sold for in the global offering. The
stock rose as much as 32 percent in premarket trading.  Investors offered to buy about 481 times as many shares as
offered in the initial sale, Sihuan, based in Haikou, China,
said in a statement yesterday. The company plans to use about 20
percent of the proceeds to boost its drug development and 30
percent for potential acquisitions, it said in a stock exchange
 filing .  The company sold 1.25 billion shares in a sale managed by
 Morgan Stanley  and  UBS AG . The shares had been offered at
HK$3.88 to HK$4.60 apiece.  Quantum Partners LP, a Soros fund, China Life Insurance
Group, Value Partners Ltd. and a fund managed by Hillhouse
Capital Management Ltd. are among seven so-called cornerstone
investors who have each invested $190 million, according to
Sihuan’s offer document.  New Horizon Capital, a private equity company co-founded by
the son of Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao , reaped a $46 million
profit after it was forced to pull out of the offering because
of concerns raised by Hong Kong’s regulator. New Horizon said in
an Oct. 18 statement that Wen Yunsong isn’t running the fund and
it didn’t breach exchange rules when it agreed to buy 9 percent
of Sihuan.  Sales Network  Sihuan  supplies  Kelinao and Anjieli injectable drugs used
to treat heart attacks and strokes to hospitals in China through
a sales network that covers almost every province, according to
the company’s website.  The rest of the capital raised through the offering will be
used for business operations such as enhancing sales
distribution and buying medicines to expand Sihuan’s product
lineup, the company said.  Net income more than doubled to 255 million yuan ($38
million) in the six months ended June 30 from a year earlier,
the company said in a stock exchange filing. Revenue increased
47 percent to 473 million yuan in the same period, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kanoko Matsuyama  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net 
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  