-- Vale Options are Fifth-Most Active on Single Trade
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2010-10-28T21:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/single-vale-options-trade-pushes-volume-to-second-highest-in-u-s-markets.html
Vale SA’s December $34 calls were
the fifth-most active options on U.S. exchanges after a single
trade of 30,000 contracts, enough to buy 3 million of the
world’s biggest iron-ore miner’s American depositary receipts.  The December $34 calls fell 3.9 percent to 73 cents and
accounted for three-quarters of all bullish Vale  options trades 
today as of 4 p.m. in New York. The ADRs declined 0.7 percent to
$31.80 after the Rio De Janeiro-based company said yesterday
that third-quarter profit  more than tripled  on rising prices and
demand for the steelmaking raw material.  “Vale has spent much of the month of October trading
sideways,”  Frederic Ruffy , senior options strategist at
WhatsTrading.com, a New York-based provider of options-market
analysis, wrote in a note. “Today’s call buyer might be
anticipating a breakout on the heels of the company’s
earnings.”  Vale said today that it will almost double its investment
next year to $24 billion as it seeks to expand iron-ore
production and grow in its non-ferrous businesses like nickel,
copper and fertilizers. Vale is expanding capacity at Carajas,
the world’s largest iron-ore mine, and may surpass OAO GMK
Norilsk Nickel as the world’s largest nickel company next year,
Chief Executive Officer  Roger Agnelli  said Oct. 20.  The U.S. shares haven’t closed above $34  since April .
Seventy-seven percent of the December $34 calls changed hands at
the ask price, which indicates that buyers initiated most of the
transactions. Before today, they had an open interest of 23,485
existing positions.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves
or bet that  volatility , or stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 