-- Sinopec's Third-Quarter Profit Beats Estimates as China Fuel Demand Rises
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-28T11:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/sinopec-s-third-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-as-china-fuel-demand-rises.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. ,
Asia’s biggest refiner, posted a 15 percent gain in third-
quarter profit, beating estimates, as faster industrial
production growth boosted fuel consumption by factories.  Net income  at Sinopec, as China Petroleum is known, rose to
19.6 billion yuan ($2.9 billion), or 0.224 yuan a share, from a
revised 17.1 billion yuan, or 0.197 yuan, a year earlier, the
company said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange
today. That compares with a mean estimate of 18.16 billion yuan
in a Bloomberg survey of seven analysts.  Manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in four months
in September, adding to signs that economic growth is
stabilizing even as the government curbs increases in lending
and takes steps to cool the property market. China imported a
record amount of crude oil last month to meet demand in the
world’s fastest-growing major economy.  “Sinopec, among other energy producers in China, will
continue to benefit from increasing domestic demand over the
long run,” Yin Xiaodong, a Beijing-based energy analyst with
Citic Securities Co., said by telephone.  China overtook the U.S. last year as the biggest automobile
market and Germany as the largest exporter. Domestic automobile
sales may exceed 17 million units this year, increasing fuel
requirements, the National Energy Administration said this week.  Shares of  Sinopec  have risen 7.7 percent in Hong Kong
trading this year, compared with a 6.1 percent gain in the
benchmark Hang Seng index. The stock advanced 0.7 percent to
close at HK$7.44 today, before the earnings announcement.  Full-Year Profit  Full-year net income may rise 1 percent to 64.43 billion
yuan, according to a mean estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The Beijing-based company will build up its exploration and
production business to counter the risks in refining, Chairman
Su Shulin said on Aug. 23.  Sinopec’s earnings growth may lag behind domestic rivals
 PetroChina Co.  and Cnooc Ltd. because of its greater exposure to
the production and sales of fuels whose prices are capped by the
state, according to analysts including Gordon Kwan, head of
regional energy research at Mirae Asset Securities Ltd.  Crude in New York averaged $76.21 a barrel in the July to
September period compared with $68.24 a barrel a year earlier.
The government increased fuel prices by about 3 percent this
month and as much as 4.6 percent in April.  Sinopec, which gets 80 percent of its revenue from
producing and distributing fuels, may step up acquisitions of
oil and gas fields to diversify from refining. The company
agreed in March to buy a share in an Angolan field from its
parent, China Petrochemical Corp., for $2.5 billion. The parent
agreed this month to pay $7.1 billion for a stake in Repsol YPF
SA’s Brazilian unit.  Chinese companies spent a record $32 billion last year
acquiring energy and resources assets overseas to meet domestic
demand. Cnooc, China’s biggest offshore oil explorer, agreed in
March to buy a 50 percent stake in Argentine producer Bridas
Corp. for $3.1 billion. PetroChina won in December Canadian
government approval to purchase a stake in two Alberta oil-sands
projects for C$1.9 billion ($1.9 billion).  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net ;
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 