-- SNB’s Hildebrand Says Rates May Fuel Property Bubble
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-10-28T14:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/snb-s-hildebrand-says-low-rates-threaten-to-fuel-swiss-real-estate-bubble.html
Swiss central bank President  Philipp Hildebrand  said there are signs the bank’s record-low interest
rates could fuel a property bubble, suggesting he’s growing
uncomfortable with the current policy.  “The longer monetary policy remains expansive, the greater
the risk that it will have undesirable consequences,”
Hildebrand said at an event in Lugano, Switzerland, today.
“Already there are some warning signs. Especially on the real-
estate market there’s a risk of imbalances if rates are
maintained at a very low level for a long period of time.”  The Swiss National Bank has kept its benchmark interest
rate at 0.25 percent for the past 19 months, encouraging housing
demand as the  economy  gathered strength. While Hildebrand said
current rates remain  “appropriate,”  he noted that the central
bank has been “warning for some time that developments on the
property market are alarming” and a “cause for concern.”  The Swiss franc strengthened after the remarks, trading at
1.3657 against the euro at 4:40 p.m. in Zurich. It yesterday
reached 1.3703, its weakest since Aug. 11. It traded at 98.33
centimes per dollar, up from 99.04 centimes yesterday.  ‘Overheating’  Mortgage lending by Swiss banks focused on the domestic
market rose 7.1 percent last year, outstripping the 10-year
average growth rate of 4.2 percent, the SNB said in a June
report. Mortgage rates fell to “exceptionally low” levels and
house prices gained the most since before the last Swiss real-
estate bubble in the late 1980s, it said.  Asking prices for houses rose about 6 percent in 2009, and
prices in regions such as Geneva and for market segments such as
owner-occupied flats are showing the “first signs of
overheating,” the SNB said the report.  Swiss property prices have also been pushed higher after
the government loosened labor laws for European residents to
help meet a lack of skilled workers such as engineers and
doctors. The country is home to companies including  Nestle SA ,
the world’s largest food maker, and  Swiss Reinsurance Co. Ltd. ,
the world’s second-largest reinsurer.  “The current environment is the ideal basis for a build-up
in risks -- mortgage rates are low and the competition on the
property market is high,” Hildebrand said. “There’s no reason
for panic, but nor is there reason to give the all clear. One
has to be conscious of the fact that rates are currently at a
historically low level.”  Inflation Outlook  While the SNB last month lowered its  inflation  forecast
through 2013, Hildebrand said households need to be able to cope
with the costs associated with a possible increase in interest
rates.  The SNB, together with the country’s financial regulator,
will “closely monitor” further developments in order to assess
banks’ “risk appetite” and act if necessary, he said.
Authorities “won’t hesitate to use targeted corrective measures
if needed,” such as introducing new tools, he said without
elaborating.  “The classic monetary-policy instruments can’t and
shouldn’t solve all problems,” Hildebrand said. “Monetary
policy remains focused on maintaining price stability within our
country. That’s the highest goal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  