-- Sondheim Puzzles Over Popularity of ’Clowns,’ Dissects Himself
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2010-10-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/sondheim-puzzles-over-popular-clowns-dissects-himself-jeremy-gerard.html
Stephen Sondheim  can’t explain why
“Send in the Clowns” is the song that made him a star beyond
Broadway.  Judy Collins , then  Frank Sinatra  and  Barbra Streisand  made
ever-bigger-selling recordings of the modest number from
Sondheim’s 1973 show, “A Little Night Music,” he writes in
“Finishing the Hat.” His candid, immensely entertaining
collection of lyrics and commentary from the first half of his
astonishing career carries the apt subtitle, “Collected Lyrics
(1954-1981) with Attendant Comments, Principles, Heresies,
Grudges, Whines and Anecdotes.”  “Why so many fine (and not so fine) singers have recorded
‘Send in the Clowns’ is a mystery to me,” he writes. “Not that
I don’t think the song is eminently worth singing, but why this
ballad of all the ones I’ve written?”  There are so many pleasure-giving surprises and revelations
in “Finishing the Hat,” that it’s hard to know where to begin.
Pick just about any page.  Threaded through the lyrics of shows from “Saturday
Night” in 1954 through “Merrily We Roll Along” in 1981 is
some of the most articulate commentary ever written about the
process of creating Broadway musicals. Sondheim deftly
elucidates the inner workings of his own art and the
collaborations that have produced a catalog of works that
continuously rewrote the rules of musical theater.  Among the early highlights: “West Side Story” and
“Gypsy,” for which he wrote the lyrics, and the landmark
musicals “Company” and “Sweeney Todd.”  Jabbing Saints  He’s equally adept at jabbing (and worse) several sainted
colleagues, notably  Ira Gershwin ,  Lorenz Hart  and  Noel Coward ,
not to mention his mentor, Oscar Hammerstein, the author of
“The Surrey With the Fringe on Top,” “Getting to Know You”
and “My Favorite Things.”  The barbs tend to be couched in the manner of a loving son
gently revealing the father’s shortcomings:  “The flaws in Oscar’s lyrics are more apparent than in
those of others because he is speaking deeply from himself
through his characters and therefore has no persona to hide
behind,” Sondheim writes. “In the end, it’s the monumentality
that matters. Few lyrics can match ‘Soliloquy’ or ‘What’s the
Use of Wond’rin’ for digging into the heart of what a theater
song can be.”  Couch Time  Sondheim has been the most analyzed, criticized, lauded,
dismissed, celebrated musical-theater figure of the postwar era.
He’s used to having his lyrics picked apart for clues to the man
who created them. This book’s very title (from a show that isn’t
even to be covered until the anticipated follow-up volume)
refers to a song about a diffident artist accused of hiding
behind his work.  The response to an earlier song was enlightening.  “To believe that ‘Anyone Can Whistle’ is my credo is to
believe that I’m the prototypical Repressed Intellectual and
that explains everything about me,” Sondheim writes crankily in
a book that bristles with a magnificent crankiness. “Perhaps
being tagged with a cliche shouldn’t bother me, but it does, and
to my chagrin I realize it means that I care more about how I’m
perceived than I wish I did. I’d like to think this concern
hasn’t affected my work, but I wouldn’t be surprised if it
has.”  Perfect Pitch  Each chapter opens with background on the musical at hand,
providing pitch-perfect notes on his collaborators, among them
 Jerome Robbins ,  Hal Prince , Arthur Laurents and  Leonard Bernstein . Considering the many crimes of rhymers (chief among
them near-rhyming and over-rhyming), Sondheim is no less hard on
himself than he is on others.  “Crowded and incessant rhyming is something I deplore in
the work of others ( Ira Gershwin  in particular) but something
I’m not always able to avoid myself, I regret to say.”  “Post-Sondheimian” is the musical-theater cliche Sondheim
may have to account for in the afterlife, should there be one.
As to his own unique genius, it’s warmly revealed in every
sentence here.  “Finishing the Hat” is from Knopf (445 pages, $39.95). To
buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( Jeremy Gerard  is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 