-- South African Bonds Surge, Forward Rates at Record Low, on Rate-Cut Bets
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-10-28T14:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/south-african-bonds-gain-forward-rates-at-a-record-low-on-rate-cut-bets.html
South African bonds rose the most in
two months, pushing yields to the lowest since Oct. 18, on
renewed speculation the central bank will lower its benchmark
interest rate, boosting demand for assets paying a fixed return.  The benchmark 13.5 percent security due September 2015
climbed 57 cents to 125.90 rand, the steepest advance since Aug.
24, as of 4:01 p.m. in Johannesburg. That reduced the yield on
the bond by 13 basis points to 7.11 percent.  The South African  Reserve  Bank, led by Governor  Gill Marcus , is likely to lower its 6 percent benchmark interest rate
by a “final” 25 basis points when it meets next month, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc said in a client note today. Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said yesterday that government is
targeting “looser monetary policy” to help grow the economy.  “Acknowledgement that growth in South Africa has been sub-
trend compared to other emerging markets supports looser
monetary policy,”  Imran Ahmad , a London-based emerging-markets
strategist at RBS, said in a telephone interview. “We think a
final 25 basis-point cut will mark the end of the easing cycle,
after which rates are likely to remain unchanged for the next
twelve months or so. Sustained loose monetary policy will
provide stimulus to the economy.”  South Africa’s monetary policy makers have lowered their
benchmark interest rate  eight times  since December 2008 to
stimulate the economy. The nation’s main interest rate compares
with deposit returns of near zero in developed nations,
encouraging investors to borrow cheaply in the U.S., Japan and
the U.K. to invest in higher-yielding emerging markets.  Rand Strength  The strategy, known as the carry trade, helped the rand to
surge 34 percent against the dollar since the start of 2009,
reducing the cost of imported oil and helping to keep inflation
within the 3 percent to 6 percent target range since February.
 Inflation  slowed to a five-year low of 3.2 percent in September,
the statistics office said yesterday.  FRAs, or forward-rates agreements, showed money-market
investors increased bets the  Reserve Bank  will lower its
benchmark rate when it announces its next decision on Nov. 18
The cost of  three-month contracts for cash in three months  fell
11.5 basis points to 5.57 percent, the lowest level since the
central bank first introduced its repurchase rate in 1999. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The rand strengthened for the first day in three, adding
0.8 percent to 7.0143 per dollar, from a close of 7.0680
yesterday. Against the euro, the rand declined for a second day,
losing 0.2 percent to 9.7529.  A report today showed producer-price inflation slowed more
than expected in September, easing to 6.8 percent, from 7.8
percent in August, Pretoria-based  Statistics South Africa  said
on its website today. The  median estimate  of 17 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a reading of 8.2 percent.  “There is now a strong case building that the South
African Reserve Bank can cut interest rates again at their
November Monetary Policy Committee meeting,” RBC Capital
Markets said in a research note after the release of the PPI
data. “We expect a 25 basis-point reduction” with another cut
likely in the first quarter of 2011, RBC said in the note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  