-- South Korea's Industrial Production Rises at the Slowest Pace in 11 Months
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 2010-10-29T01:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/south-korea-s-industrial-production-rises-at-the-slowest-pace-in-11-months.html
South Korea’s industrial production
rose at the slowest pace in 11 months in September as a holiday
season shut down some of the nation’s factories.  Output  gained 3.9 percent from a year earlier, after rising
a revised 16.9 percent in August, the statistics office said in
Gwacheon today. That was less than the  median estimate  of an 8.7
percent increase in a Bloomberg News survey of 14 economists.
Production declined 0.4 percent from August.  South Korea’s economic growth rate halved last quarter to
0.7 percent from the previous three months, after a surge in the
won added to risks to exports from elevated U.S. unemployment
and European austerity. The Bank of Korea left borrowing costs
at 2.25 percent in October for the third straight month as
policy makers assess the strength of the global recovery.  “The economy is apparently slowing down after fast growth,
with the strong won putting pressure on exports,” said  Park Sang Hyun , an economist at HI Investment & Securities Co. in
Seoul. “The central bank will likely raise interest rates in
November anyhow to curb inflation as the economy will not see a
sudden fall.” A holiday season last month contributed to the
weaker-than-expected reading, he said.  The won strengthened for the first time in three days
yesterday after the government raised its 2010 economic growth
forecast and data showed the current-account surplus almost
doubled in September. It was little changed at 9:53 a.m. in
Seoul at 1,123.86 per dollar. The benchmark  Kospi  stock index
fell 0.9 percent to 1,891.23.  Capital Controls  The currency had tumbled two days ago after central bank
governor  Kim Choong Soo  said South Korea may consider imposing
capital controls to slow inflows that have driven it higher. The
won has risen by 5.6 percent in the past three months, the
third-biggest climb in Asia, excluding Japan.  Finance chiefs from the Group of 20 economies pledged to
refrain from “competitive devaluation” to ease fears of a
trade war after meeting in South Korea last week. Currencies may
dominate discussions at the G-20 summit of leaders in Seoul next
month.  September’s industrial output data were “weak” largely
because of a “longer than usual” Chuseok holiday, said Jung
Gyu Don, the director general of Statistics Korea. Most plants
shut down for a week during the month, he said. The Finance
Ministry said industrial output is expected to rebound in
October. The Chuseok is a harvest festival.  Growth Forecast  The government boosted its economic growth forecast for
this year to 6 percent yesterday, increasing a previous
projection of 5.8 percent. The central bank raised borrowing
costs from a record-low 2 percent in July after the fastest
first-half economic expansion in a decade stoked price pressures.  Overseas shipments  have aided earnings this year at
companies including  Hyundai Motor Co. , South Korea’s largest
automaker. Hyundai posted a 38 percent increase in third-quarter
profit as new models attracted buyers in overseas markets,
offsetting the negative impact from a stronger won.  A  leading index  of economic indicators, which forecasts
business activity, rose 4.9 percent in September from a year
earlier, compared with a 5.9 percent gain in August, today’s
report showed.  Sales of consumer goods climbed 0.1 percent last month from
August and increased 4.5 percent from a year earlier. Investment
in factories advanced 11.8 percent from a year earlier.  A separate report today showed South Korean manufacturers’
confidence fell to the lowest level in nine months. An index
measuring expectations for November declined to 92 from 99 in
October. A measure of non-manufacturing companies’ expectations
climbed to 88 from 86.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net 
KOCPIYOY <Index> CN
KOEXTOTY <Index> CN
KOIMTOTY <Index> CN
KOIPIMOM <Index> CN
%KRW 