-- Southwest Sees Atlanta as Its Largest City on AirTran Deal
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-10-28T21:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/southwest-sees-atlanta-as-its-largest-city-on-airtran-update1-.html
Atlanta, home to the world’s busiest
airport, may become  Southwest Airlines Co. ’s largest city in the
coming years when the low-fare carrier buys  AirTran Holdings
Inc. , an executive said.  AirTran has 202 daily departures from Atlanta, and
Southwest may “do well north of that,”  Bob Jordan , Southwest’s
executive vice president for strategy and planning, said today
at a media event at the carrier’s Dallas headquarters.  Atlanta handled almost 88 million passengers last year,
three-fourths of them flying  Delta Air Lines Inc.  or its
regional partners, according to government data. Delta is the
world’s second-largest airline, and Atlanta is its biggest hub.  “It could turn out Atlanta is the largest city in the
Southwest network over time,” Jordan said. “I feel very good
and confident about our ability to win over the AirTran
passengers.” Southwest doesn’t serve Atlanta on its own. Its
largest city right now is Las Vegas, with 224 daily departures.  Southwest agreed last month to buy AirTran for $1.4 billion
in cash and stock to gain access to Atlanta and add more gates
and flight slots in New York and Washington.  Southwest expects to decide before the end of the year on
whether to order Boeing Co. 737-800 jets that would carry more
passengers on cross-country routes and make Hawaii an “eligible
destination,” Chief Executive Officer  Gary Kelly  said.  The bigger plane could also be used on flights to nearby
international destinations such as Canada, Mexico or parts of
the Caribbean, he said.  737-800 Orders  Southwest has firm orders for about 80 of the 737-700 jets,
and options for about 60 more, according to its most recent
annual report. The carrier could convert some of those orders
into the bigger -800 model, and the earliest it could take
delivery of those would be 2012, Kelly said today in a telephone
interview.  “If we do the -800, it may be that we take the -800s for a
long time,” Kelly said. “Put your thumb in the wind on that.
It would lead to a fleet size of 75 to 100 airplanes.”  Operating the Boeing 737-800 would trim unit costs by 10
percent to 15 percent, according to the company. The planes
would have 175 seats, 28 percent more than the 137 seats on the
carrier’s existing 737-700s, Southwest has said. The company is
taking new aircraft only to replace those it retires.  One of the biggest hurdles remaining is completed accords
with pilots and flight attendants that would allow the 737-800,
Kelly said. Both groups have tentatively agreed, and
ratification votes are in progress.  Integration Teams  Southwest last week created 30 teams to plan the
integration with AirTran, including combining technology
systems, submitting an application to get a joint operating
certificate and training employees, said  Jeff Lamb , a Southwest
senior vice president overseeing the integration.  That’s about the same number of teams United Airlines and
Continental Airlines formed in June when they were developing a
plan to mesh the companies in a deal that formed the world’s
largest carrier. Southwest is using consulting firm McKinsey &
Co. to help on the integration,  Beth Harbin , a spokeswoman,
said. United Continental and Delta both used Bain & Co.  Southwest and AirTran haven’t yet completed their tie-up
and can’t share information about fares or flight schedules. The
chief executive officers of the companies said in previous
interviews with Bloomberg News that they met secretly at hotels
over several months to negotiate the deal.  “We’re still competitors,” Jordan said.  Southwest also said today that its passengers can book
flights to Mexican cities such as Cancun, Guadalajara, Morelia,
Toluca/Mexico City and Zacatecas starting Nov. 12, under a new
partnership with Volaris, that country’s second-largest carrier.  Southwest  was unchanged at $13.76 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have increased 20
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  