-- Southern Sudan Seeks to Woo Investors, Diversify Economy World Bank Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-10-28T09:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/southern-sudan-seeks-to-woo-investors-diversify-economy-world-bank-says.html
Southern Sudan  is working to improve
its business climate and diversify its economy in a region that
depends on oil revenue as it prepares for a referendum on
independence in January, the World Bank said.  The semi-autonomous region is seeking investors to develop
infrastructure and build agricultural-processing factories to
export goods such as juices, palm oil and corn mainly to East
Africa, Robert Whyte, a manager for the World Bank’s investment
program, said today in an interview in Nairobi, Kenya’s capital.
Companies from China, Kenya and the Middle East have expressed
interest in Southern Sudan, Whyte said.  “If the referendum takes place smoothly and peacefully it
will help investment immensely,” he said. “Understandably it’s
an area that’s been held back because of tensions.”  The referendum, scheduled for Jan. 9, is a key component of
the 2005  peace agreement  that ended two decades of civil war
between the Muslim north and the south, where Christianity and
traditional beliefs dominate. About 2 million people died in the
conflict and more than 4 million were displaced.  Southern Sudan currently imports most of its food and lacks
electricity outside a few main cities. The government in Juba,
the region’s capital, derives 98 percent of its budget from oil
income it receives under an accord with the north to split
revenue from crude pumped in the south.  Sudan’s daily oil output of 490,000 barrels a day, making
it sub-Saharan Africa’s third-largest crude producer, according
to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy. Most of the oil is
pumped in Southern Sudan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 