-- South Korea Increases Economic Expansion Forecast to 6% for This Year
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-10-28T04:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/south-korea-increases-economic-expansion-forecast-to-6-for-this-year.html
South Korea’s government increased
its economic growth forecast for this year and said the nation
is vigilant against possible asset price bubbles.  The economy will probably expand 6 percent in 2010, Finance
Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  told reporters in Seoul today, compared
with an earlier projection of 5.8 percent.  “If the economy posts any positive growth in the fourth
quarter, it will surpass 6 percent,” Yoon said. The government
is “keenly” vigilant against possible asset price bubbles, he
also said.  The forecast revision comes even after a report yesterday
showed South Korea’s  growth slowed  to 0.7 percent in the third
quarter as export gains and the global economy cooled. The data
signaled more room to pause interest-rate increases and pared a
recent surge in the nation’s currency.  Domestic demand and exports are still growing, though
“external uncertainties” from the U.S. and Europe are rising,
Yoon said. The global economy will continue moderating next year,
he said.  The won rose 0.3 percent to 1,124.69 per dollar as of 12:55
p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 Kospi  stock index fell 0.2 percent to 1,905.01.  The won fell 1 percent yesterday and bond yields rose after
central bank governor  Kim Choong Soo  said South Korea may
consider imposing capital controls to slow fund inflows that
have driven up the currency.  Economic Growth  Gross domestic product  advanced 4.5 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, the Bank of Korea said yesterday.
The current-account surplus widened to $4.06 billion in
September, rebounding from a four-month low, as exports rose and
the goods balance increased, a report today showed.  South Korea can expand 5 percent next year “without much
difficulty” on exports, domestic demand and international
policy coordination for sustainable growth, Yoon said.  Disputes over currency policy may dominate the summit of
the  Group of 20  economies in Seoul next month. The group’s
finance chiefs ended talks in South Korea on Oct. 23 by pledging
to avoid “competitive devaluation,” seeking to calm fears of a
trade war stemming from the use of cheaper currencies to spur
growth.  They also called for reduced trade imbalances while
stopping short of a U.S. proposal for current-account targets.
The summit in Seoul from Nov. 11 to Nov. 12. will discuss the
current-account suggestion, Yoon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  