-- Spain May Limit Solar Subsidies by Capping Hours, Official Says
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2010-10-28T08:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/spain-may-limit-solar-subsidies-by-capping-hours-official-says.html
Spain may limit the hours during
which photovoltaic-power plants may earn subsidies as part of a
plan to rein in electricity costs for consumers, according to a
government official involved in talks with the owners.  It’s too early to say how much the cut might cost companies
that generate the solar power using photovoltaic panels, said
 Antonio Hernandez , general director of energy policy at the
Madrid-based Industry Ministry. He said the ministry aims to
reach an agreement during the next few weeks of negotiations.  “We want to prevent electricity becoming more expensive as
the sun shines more,” Hernandez said in a telephone interview
this week. “One of the possibilities is that the number of
hours that subsidies can be earned would have limits.”  Plant operators and trade groups have held talks with
ministry officials for months and threatened to sue the
government for as much as 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) should
it cut the subsidies. The aid, which is added to consumer bills,
is guaranteed for 25 years under a 2007 law, plant operator T-
Solar Global SA Chief Executive Officer Juan Laso has said.  Hernandez is searching for a formula to hold down power
prices for industry and households as the government tries to
revive an economy emerging from its worst recession in 60 years.  The revenue from consumers’ electricity bills doesn’t fully
cover the cost of delivering power under the current system,
leaving utilities to finance a so-called tariff deficit that’s
forecast to total about 3 billion euros just for 2010.  Renewable energy has become the focus of power-rate
negotiations as Hernandez tries to meet a legal obligation to
eliminate the tariff deficit by 2013.  Spain’s power regulator forecasts that the subsidies to
renewable energy-producers plus those to co-generation, which
includes more energy-efficient uses of fossil fuels, will reach
 6.8 billion  euros this year, 15 percent more than forecast,
Europa Press reported Oct. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  