-- Sperm Quality Declines After Exposure to Plastic Chemical BPA
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-10-28T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/sperm-quality-declines-after-exposure-to-plastic-chemical-bpa.html
Bisphenol-A, a chemical used for
decades to make plastic food containers and baby bottles, was
linked to lower sperm quality in men, researchers said.  A five-year study of 514 Chinese workers compared those
with detectable levels of BPA in their urine, ranging from high
to low, and those with undetectable amounts, according to
results appearing today in the journal  Fertility & Sterility. 
Men with measurable levels had two to four times the risk of
lower sperm concentration, sperm count, vitality and motility.  This is the first human study to show a relationship
between semen quality and BPA levels in urine, after animal
studies showed similar associations, said  De-Kun Li , an
epidemiologist at Kaiser Permanente’s division of research in
Oakland, California. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
and the  Food and Drug Administration  said earlier this year that
they will study the potential health effects of BPA. On Oct. 14,
Canada declared the chemical a toxic substance.  “BPA damages your sperm, that’s the very obvious
message,” Li said in a telephone interview. “Sometimes people
may not care about semen quality, but they should -- it may lead
to birth defects and infertility.”  The U.S.  National Toxicology Program  lists BPA as
presenting a “negligible concern” that exposure will cause
reproductive effects in adults who aren’t vulnerable to it
because of their jobs. The NTP also has “minimal concern” that
workers exposed to BPA will show effects, according to the
agency’s website.  Ed Kang, a spokesman for the federal program, didn’t
respond to a phone call and an e-mail requesting comment.  More Studies  The FDA  said  in January that it supports additional
studies, by governmental and nongovernmental researchers, to
provide information and address uncertainties about the safety
of BPA, said  Michael Herndon , a spokesman for the agency.  Dale Kemery, a spokesman for the EPA, said the agency was
still examining the chemical, and “no single study is likely to
be the sole driver or determinant of action,” according to an
e-mailed statement.  Today’s study found that men with detectable levels of BPA
in their urine also showed more than three times the risk of
lowered  sperm concentration  and vitality, more than four times
the risk of a lowered sperm count, and twice the risk of lowered
motility, compared with men without BPA in their urine.  When the study authors eliminated the men who were exposed
to BPA in workplaces, the average study participant had BPA
exposure of 1.4 micrograms per gram of urine. The average U.S.
male has 2.3 micrograms per gram, Li said.  Children’s Health  The FDA’s staff found in a 2008 report that food packaged
in material containing BPA is safe. Scientists advising the
agency said later that the FDA produced a flawed assessment and
urged more research. Because BPA is a reproductive,
developmental and systemic toxicant in animal studies, questions
have emerged about its potential effects on children’s health.  To minimize exposure, the Health and Human Services
Department recommends that people discard scratched baby bottles
and infant feeding cups and avoid putting boiling water in
bottles and cans that contain BPA.  Nestle SA  and  Energizer Holdings Inc.  were among six
manufacturers that said they stopped using BPA, as of January
2009, when making baby bottles and feeding cups for the U.S.
market, according to the health department.  BPA blocks the effects of  androgens , or male hormones, and
it acts as a mild estrogen, said Li, the lead author on today’s
study.  “Up until two years ago, some of the arguments we heard
were that we only have animal studies showing it’s bad,” Li
said. “Our study is adding the weight of human evidence to show
that those effects demonstrated in animal studies are being
supported by human studies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 