-- Starwood Posts Third-Quarter Loss on Hotel Sale Charge
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2010-10-28T20:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/starwood-reports-third-quarter-loss-on-charge-related-to-sale-of-hotel.html
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. , owner of the St. Regis and W luxury brands, reported a
third-quarter loss after a $55 million charge related mainly to
the sale of a hotel.  The net loss was $6 million, or 3 cents a share, compared
with net income of $40 million, or 22 cents, a year earlier, the
White Plains, New York-based company said in a statement today.  Income from continuing operations, excluding one-time
items, climbed to $47 million, or 25 cents a share, from $25
million, or 14 cents. That beat projections of 22 cents, the
average estimate of 23 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  A rebound in travel demand is helping the U.S. lodging
industry recover after last year’s recession sent occupancies to
a 30-year low. Hotel occupancies in the top 25 U.S. markets
climbed to 65 percent this year through August from 61 percent a
year earlier, according to  Smith Travel Research Inc.  of
Hendersonville, Tennessee. Occupancy at U.S. chain hotels with
the costliest rooms rose to 67 percent from 62 percent.  “The strength of our gateway cities is spreading to
secondary cities, and luxury -- which some thought was dead --is
alive and growing,” Starwood Chief Executive Officer  Frits van Paasschen  said today during a conference call with analysts and
investors. “This demand is allowing us to raise rates.”  Revenue per available room, or revpar, gained 10.6 percent
in North America and 10 percent worldwide at properties the
hotelier has operated for at least a year. Total revenue at
Starwood, the No. 3 U.S. lodging company, rose 8.6 percent to
$1.26 billion.  Business Markets  “Starwood’s exposure to urban, more business travel-
centric markets, especially its sizable New York City exposure,
should allow for better third-quarter and fourth-quarter
performance,”  Joseph Greff , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst,
wrote in an Oct. 6 research note.  Third-quarter results included a charge of $52 million
after taxes, or 28 cents a share, mainly related to the loss on
the hotel sale, completed on Sept. 29. Starwood Hotels, which
didn’t provide further details, that day announced the sale of
the St. Regis Aspen for $70 million to 315 East Dean Associates
Inc.  The hotelier said it expects full-year earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of about $840
million to $845 million, with EBITDA rising to between $950
million and $980 million in 2011.  Increase in Revpar  Worldwide revpar probably will increase 8 percent to 9
percent this year on a same-store basis and before adjustments
for currency-exchange rates, it said. That compares with the
company’s July forecast of an increase of 7 percent to 9
percent.  Starwood fell $2.41, or 4.2 percent, to $55.17 at 4:01 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, giving the company
a market value of $10.5 billion. The stock has risen 87 percent
in the past year.  Marriott International Inc. , the largest U.S. hotel chain,
on Oct. 6 said it had a third-quarter profit as a pickup in
business and leisure travel allowed the hotelier to increase
room rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nadja Brandt  in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 