-- Steel Authority May Secure Land for India Mill
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2010-10-28T09:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/steel-authority-may-get-land-for-sindri-mill-by-december-secretary-says.html
Steel Authority of India Ltd.  may
secure a site for a new plant by December, sidestepping land
acquisition hurdles that have stalled $80 billion of projects by
global rivals including  ArcelorMittal  and  Posco  in the country.  The 3 million metric ton plant, which will increase the
capacity of India’s second-largest steelmaker by more than 20
percent, will be located at Sindri in the mineral-rich eastern
state of Jharkhand, Steel Secretary  P.K. Misra  said in an
interview. The government, which owns about 86 percent of Steel
Authority, is acquiring 6,500 acres of land from the fertilizer
ministry for the plant, he said.  Steel Authority, which is in talks with ArcelorMittal and
Tata Steel Ltd. for the mill, is joining rivals in forging
alliances to make superior grades of the alloy for automobiles,
home appliances and transformers. Rising incomes and new models
are driving car sales in India, prompting  Maruti Suzuki India
Ltd. , the nation’s biggest carmaker,  Ford Motor Co.  and Toyota
Motor Corp. to add capacity and source steel locally.  “Sindri’s proximity to iron ore resources and readily
available land makes it attractive for Steel Authority to set up
a facility there,” said  Abhishek Jain , who has a “buy’ rating
on the stock at Shah Investor’s Home Ltd. in Mumbai.  Shares  of Steel Authority, slated to announce second-
quarter results today, fell 3.5 percent to 205.75 rupees as of
2:42 p.m. in Mumbai. The stock has declined 15 percent this year,
compared with a 15 percent gain in the benchmark Sensitive Index
of the Bombay Stock Exchange.  Project Delays  Proposed mills by South Korea’s  Posco ,  ArcelorMittal  and
 Tata Steel  in India have been delayed by more than five years
because of failure by the steelmakers to secure land and mining
rights. Posco’s $12 billion mill in the eastern state of Orissa
is awaiting final clearance from the federal government, while
ArcelorMittal has decided to acquire land at a new location for
its proposed $10 billion mill in Jharkhand.  Steel Authority’s Sindri complex will also include a
fertilizer unit as a condition for obtaining the land from the
fertilizer ministry and a power plant, Misra, who took charge on
Sept. 1, said in the phone interview from New Delhi yesterday.
Production from the steel mill will mainly supply high-value
automobile sheets to carmakers, he said.  “There’s a need for raising the output of automobile-grade
steel as consumption is consistently growing,” Misra said. “We
will look at partnering with someone who can provide technology
for producing high-value steel at Sindri.”  Rising Demand  India’s steel consumption is likely to grow by as much as
11 percent in the coming three years to more than 75 million
metric tons, he said.  Steel Authority  is in talks with ArcleorMittal, the world’s
largest producer and Tata Steel, India’s top steelmaker, for a
mill at Sindri,  Steel Authority  Director Finance Soiles
Bhattacharya said in June. The land, which currently houses a
closed fertilizer unit, belongs to the state-owned  Fertilizer
Corp. of India Ltd.   Steel Authority,  which is also in talks with  Posco  for a 2
million metric ton mill at Bokaro in Jharkhand, may decide on
the project within a month, Misra said. India may be able to
meet as much as 25 percent of its automobile-grade and special-
steel requirements by 2020 from less than 10 percent at present,
he said.  ArcelorMittal, Nippon Steel Corp. and  JFE Holdings Inc.  are
also forging alliances with Indian steelmakers for auto-grade
steel. JFE Holdings, Japan’s second-largest steelmaker, has
bought a 14.99 percent stake in Mumbai-based JSW Steel Ltd.,
while Nippon Steel and Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd. are also
discussing possible alliances with Indian partners to tap
surging demand in Asia’s third-biggest car market.  Nippon has agreed with Tata Steel to make auto-grade steel
in India and Sumitomo may buy a stake in Bhushan Steel Ltd.’s
proposed mill in eastern India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ; 