-- Steelmaker Usiminas Says `Overvalued' Real Hurting Brazil's Steel Industry
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2010-10-28T13:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/steelmaker-usiminas-says-overvalued-real-hurting-brazil-s-steel-industry.html
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA,  the Brazilian steelmaker which posted a 15 percent rise in
profit today, said an “overvalued” Brazilian real is causing
imports to soar and hurting the nation’s steel industry.  Imports of flat steel, used in automobiles and appliances,
will rise 160 percent this year to 3 million metric tons, the
steelmaker, known as Usiminas, said today in a statement. That’s
“substantially higher” than the historical average, the
company said, citing figures from the Brazilian Steel Institute.  The Brazilian real reached a two-year high compared with
the U.S. dollar on Oct. 14 as investors turn to emerging market
assets because of low interest rates and limited economic growth
in the U.S. and Western Europe. Brazil’s tax agency said Oct. 22
it will curb imports of steel that may have been priced below
the cost of the raw materials used to make the alloy.  Brazil’s growth rate, “associated to an overvalued
exchange rate, creates a highly favorable scenario for imports,
which affects the industry’s growth as a whole and that of the
steel sector,” Usiminas said today.  Third-quarter net income rose 15 percent to 495.3 million
reais ($288 million) after an increase in steel production. The
company beat estimates of 388 million reais on an adjusted
basis, the  average  of eight analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Domestic Prices  “Domestic steel prices in Brazil show a 25 percent premium
versus international markets and that is untenable in the long
term,”  Alfonso Gomez , who manages a $50 million Latin American
equity fund at Clariden Leu in Zurich, said in an interview
yesterday. “The steelmakers seem to count on protectionist
measures from the Brazilian Government to preserve their premium
pricing, but they may be overestimating the Government’s ability
and willingness to make that happen,” he said.  Usiminas rose 65 centavos, or 3.2 percent, to 20.70 reais
as of 11:11 a.m. in Sao Paulo.  Crude steel production grew 7 percent to 1.95 million tons
during the third quarter, Usiminas said. Net sales rose 13
percent to 3.24 billion reais, Usiminas said. The steelmaker
posts earnings under international financial reporting
standards.  Usiminas is the largest Brazilian steelmaker after Gerdau
SA. Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA, or CSN as it is known, is the
third largest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  