-- Stryker Buys Boston Scientific Unit for $1.5 Billion
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-10-28T20:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/stryker-buys-boston-scientific-s-neurovascular-unit-for-1-5-billion-cash.html
Stryker Corp ., a maker of artificial
knees and hips, agreed to buy a  Boston Scientific Corp . unit
that makes devices to treat strokes for $1.5 billion to move
into faster-growing markets.  The all-cash deal includes a $100 million payment to
Boston Scientific contingent on development of a device for
stroke victims and on the transfer of manufacturing plants,
Kalamazoo, Michigan-based Stryker said in a statement today. The
transaction, expected to close by year’s end, may have no effect
or add “slightly” to 2011 earnings per share, Stryker said.  Stryker is acquiring a unit whose implantable devices help
treat aneurysms and clogged arteries in the brain, a new area
for the company. The business comes with “a big price tag”
that may seem too high to investors, especially given Stryker’s
lack of experience in the market, said  Michael Weinstein , an
analyst at JPMorgan Securities in New York, in a note to
clients.  “The competition will also be fierce,” Weinstein wrote
today. “This has been a highly competitive market for quite
some time with the target being the market leader, but also the
company giving up share” to  Johnson & Johnson  of New Brunswick,
New Jersey, and  Covidien Plc  of Dublin, he said.  Restoring Sales Growth  Stryker expects new products and better execution will
restore sales growth for the unit and that tax benefits will
lower the ultimate price paid, Weinstein said. The deal gives
Stryker a division that has generated  operating margins  of more
than 30 percent for Boston Scientific, he said.  Boston Scientific said it expects after-tax proceeds of
$1.2 billion from the deal and will use half of the money for
acquisitions and the rest to retire debt. The sale will reduce
2011 earnings by about 4 to 6 cents a share, the company said in
a separate statement today.  Stryker  fell 70 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $50.20 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Natick,
Massachusetts-based Boston Scientific gained 7 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $6.38.  Stryker, which has been hurt by slowing global sales of
orthopedic implants, had  sales  of $6.7 billion in 2009,
unchanged from a year earlier, said  Derrick Sung , a New York-
based analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Global Leader  The neurovascular unit generated $348 million in sales last
year, the most in a global market worth $900 million, Stryker
said in its statement.  Barclays Capital was Stryker’s financial adviser in the
deal, the statement said.  Boston Scientific Chief Executive Officer  Ray Elliott  has
moved to sell product lines, cut expenses and refinance debt
acquired in the 2006 purchase of Guidant Corp. The world’s
second-largest maker of heart devices has been dealing with
slowing sales of cardiac stents and surgically implanted
pacemakers and defibrillators that help treat heart rhythm
disorders.  Boston Scientific announced Sept. 20 that it was buying
Asthmatx Inc., a closely held company in Sunnyvale, California,
that makes an asthma treatment device, in a deal that could be
worth as much as $443.5 million.  Boston Scientific is also looking for a buyer for its
neuromodulation unit, which makes implantable products used to
relieve pain, said  Rick Wise , a Leerink Swann & Co. analyst in
New York, in a note to clients today. The unit competes with
Minneapolis-based  Medtronic Inc.  and  St. Jude Medical Inc .,
based in St. Paul, Minnesota.  While the neuromodulation unit “has the best core
technology” of competitors in the field, Boston Scientific
hasn’t introduced a new product since 2005 and has lagged behind
Medtronic and St. Jude in developing brain-stimulating devices
to treat serious tremor disorders, Parkinson’s disease and
epilepsy, Sung said.  The neuromodulation unit had sales of $285 million last
year, compared with almost $1.6 billion for Medtronic’s unit.
The comparable St. Jude unit had revenue of almost $331 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York   anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  