-- Sugar Futures May Rise Next Week on Low Brazilian Supplies, Survey Shows
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-10-28T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/sugar-futures-may-rise-next-week-on-low-brazilian-supplies-survey-shows.html
Sugar futures may rise on concerns
about tight supplies from Brazil and other Latin American
countries, a survey showed.  Nine traders, analysts and brokers surveyed by Bloomberg
News said raw sugar will climb next week on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York. One predicted a decline while another said he expects
little change. The price has increased 1.7 percent this week to
28.71 cents a pound.  Crop damage in parts of Central America and Mexico may lead
to a lower world surplus,  Sergey Gudoshnikov , an economist at
the London-based International Sugar Organization said on Oct.
26.  “There is a major concern among all regarding the
Brazilian supply to last until May next year,”  Jonathan Bouchet , a Geneva-based trader at OTCex Group, said by e-mail.
“People are looking at sugar to go way above the 30-cent
resistance.”  Nine of 11 survey respondents said refined sugar on NYSE
Liffe in London will climb and one said it will decline. One
predicted that prices will be little changed. The price has
gained 3.2 percent this week to $729.30 a metric ton.  Four of 11 respondents said refined sugar’s premium over
raw sweetener would widen and three said it would narrow. Four
predicted little change.  In the attached chart, red bars are derived by subtracting
bearish forecasts from bullish estimates for raw sugar, with
readings above zero signaling that most respondents expect
higher prices. The green line shows raw-sugar prices, and the
blue line shows white sugar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  