-- Sukuk Fifth Monthly Gain Spurs Sales Recovery Forecasts: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S i m o n   H a r v e y   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2010-10-31T10:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/sukuk-fifth-monthly-gain-spurs-sales-recovery-forecasts-islamic-finance.html
Islamic bonds gained for a  fifth 
month, sending yields to the lowest levels since 2005, as faster
growth in the Persian Gulf lured investors who expect new sales
to recover after falling 27 percent this year.  The notes returned 0.7 percent in October while average
yields dropped 19 basis points to 4.85 percent, above the Oct.
11 low of 4.62 percent, according to  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar
Sukuk Indexes.  Issuance of sukuk, which pay asset returns to
comply with the religion’s ban on interest, dropped to $13.5
billion, from $18.5 billion a year earlier, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Improving risk appetite in the Gulf after Dubai World’s
agreement with creditors this year to restructure $24.9 billion
in debt bodes well for sales in 2011, according to  HSBC Holdings
Plc  and Moody’s Investors Service. Australia may tap the market
for the first time once tax barriers have been removed,  Glenn Woolley , managing director of Intrinsic Investment Management
overseeing almost A$200 million ($196.7 million), said in an
interview in Kuala Lumpur Oct. 28.  “We remain positive for the outlook for next year,”
 Mohammed Dawood , the Dubai-based director of debt capital
markets at HSBC Holdings, the second-biggest underwriter of
sukuk this year, said in an interview Oct. 28. “We should see a
combination of first issuers and repeat issuers. I’m optimistic
about the opportunities in the first six months of the year.”  Next Year’s Sales  The Islamic Development Bank, a Jeddah, Saudi Arabia-based
multilateral lender, may sell at least $500 million of the
securities next year to meet funding needs of more than $1
billion annually, Vice President  Abdul Aziz Al Hinai  said in an
interview in Kuala Lumpur on Oct. 26. The newly created
International Islamic Liquidity Management Corp. will sell the
first of its short-term bills in 2011, Malaysian central bank
Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz  said in Kuala Lumpur Oct. 28.  Thailand is considering selling between 40 billion baht and
50 billion baht ($1.7 billion) of Islamic bonds to fund
infrastructure projects,  Islamic Bank of Thailand  President
 Dheerasak Suwannayos  said in Malaysia’s capital on Oct. 25. The
state-run  bank  will delay its inaugural offering of sukuk until
early next year as it awaits new guidelines from the securities
commission, he said.  Global sukuk returned 12.1 percent this year, according to
the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . Bonds in developing
markets gained 16.4 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global
Diversified Index  shows. Islamic bonds in the GCC returned 12.5
percent, the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index  shows.  Yields Narrow  The  difference  between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed 11
basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, this month to 361 on
Oct. 29, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk
Index.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in
June 2015 rose two basis points to 2.49 percent last week, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The extra yield investors demand to
hold Dubai’s government sukuk rather than Malaysia’s widened
seven basis points from last week to 394, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sukuk sales from the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council,
which includes the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Qatar,
will probably rise in 2011,  Khalid Howladar , a Dubai-based
senior analyst at Moody’s, said in an interview in Dubai Oct.
28.  “We would expect some modest issuance from the GCC
reaching perhaps $5 billion to $6 billion by year-end,”
Howladar said. “Liquidity and funding in banks is still an
issue, so I wouldn’t be surprised to see Islamic banks continue
to tap the sukuk market” next year, he said.  ‘Credit Issues’  Issuance of Islamic bonds from the Persian Gulf dropped 28
percent so far in 2010 to $4.5 billion, from $6.2 billion last
year, after a wave of debt restructurings, defaults and tumbling
property prices hurt investors’ confidence.  There’s a lack of new sukuk offerings in dollars, with most
of the sales denominated in local currencies, said  Yavar Moini ,
senior adviser of global capital markets at Morgan Stanley, in
an interview in Dubai Oct. 28.  “The big issuers were from Dubai and mostly real-estate
entities,” Moini said. “As long as they’re saddled with their
credit issues, the issuance is unlikely to pick up. The dollar-
based issuance will continue to be affected as long as we have
supply limited to government, or government-linked issuers.”  Malaysia Sales  Sales of ringgit Islamic bonds in Malaysia, the world’s
biggest market for the securities, have declined 28 percent this
year to 20.7 billion ringgit ($6.7 billion).  Issuance will increase next year as Malaysia’s government
pushes forward its economic transformation program to improve
the nation’s infrastructure, said Alhami Mohd Abdan, the head of
international finance and capital markets at OCBC Al-Amin Bank
Bhd., in an interview in Kuala Lumpur on Oct. 26.  “In terms of U.S. dollars, we’re looking at around $15
billion to $20 billion next year, given the recent mega projects
announced by the prime minister,” he said.  Malaysia unveiled plans in September to develop a nuclear
energy industry and build a mass rail network as part of $444
billion worth of potential private-sector led projects.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Harvey  at   sharvey6@bloomberg.net ;
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  