-- Sukuk Roadblocks May Rise With National Shariah Boards: Islamic Finance
-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2010-10-28T11:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/sukuk-roadblocks-may-rise-with-national-shariah-boards-islamic-finance.html
The plan to create national Shariah
boards to oversee sukuk sales is drawing criticism from bankers
and lawyers who say the groups would increase bureaucracy in the
$1 trillion Islamic finance industry.  The  Accounting & Auditing Organization for Islamic
Financial Institutions , a leading global regulator, is in the
final stages of a plan recommending governments appoint panels
of scholars and experts at the national level to rule whether
products comply with the religion’s tenets, Mohamad Nedal
Alchaar, secretary-general of the Manama, Bahrain-based body,
said in an interview in Kuala Lumpur on Oct. 26. The proposal
will be submitted early next year, he said.  The regulator says such a system will help clarify
standards and bolster investor confidence in an industry whose
assets are forecast by the Kuala Lumpur-based Islamic Financial
Services Board to almost triple to $2.8 trillion by 2015. The
changes risk adding bureaucratic hurdles and slowing approvals
at a time when sales are down 19 percent this year, according to
CIMB-Principal Islamic Asset Management Sdn. and Atlanta-based
law firm King & Spalding LLP.  Further regulation may just add another “layer of
bureaucracy,”  Jawad A. Ali , global deputy head of the Islamic
finance practice at King & Spalding, said in an interview in
Kuala Lumpur on Oct. 26. “I believe it would slow down the
development of Islamic finance and render it uncompetitive.”  Shariah Advisory  In Malaysia, the world’s biggest market for sukuk, the
Shariah advisory council, ensures consistency and it is helpful
in creating certainty in the market, Ranjit Ajit Singh, managing
director at the Securities Commission in Kuala Lumpur, said in
an interview yesterday.  “We have enough regulatory framework,” within the
Securities Commission,  Noripah Kamso , chief executive officer at
CIMB-Principal Islamic Asset in Kuala Lumpur, said in an
interview yesterday. The AAOIFI proposal is “going to destroy
the speed of evolution” within the industry, she said.  Global sales of sukuk, which pay asset returns to comply
with the religion’s ban on interest, have dropped to $12.8
billion so far this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Borrowers from Malaysia raised 20.7 billion ringgit
($6.7 billion) in the period compared with 26.2 billion ringgit
a year earlier, the data show.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in
June 2015 has climbed 13 basis points to 2.6 percent this week,
prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc show. The extra
yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s government sukuk rather
than Malaysia’s has narrowed 7 basis points to 380, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Industry Standardization  AAOIFI, which has 200 members, sets accounting and
auditing standards that are used in Bahrain, the Dubai
International Financial Centre, Jordan, Lebanon, Qatar, Sudan
and Syria, according to its website. The agency said its
guidelines have also been used to help frame policy in
Australia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and South
Africa.  The organization’s proposal is “a move toward
standardization of the industry,” Alchaar said in an interview
in Kuala Lumpur on Oct. 26. “Shariah advisory boards of
institutions will still be there and they will create and
innovate products that are approved by a single body, creating
comfort in the market.”  Sukuk returned 12 percent this year, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . Bonds in developing
markets gained 16.1 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global
Diversified Index  shows. Islamic bonds in the Persian Gulf
returned 12.3 percent, the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk
Index  shows.  Positive Development  The  difference  between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed 14
basis points this month to 359 yesterday, according to the
HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index.  Islamic institutions typically have their own panels of
scholars who give legal judgment, or fatwas, to determine that
products comply with Shariah principles. AAOIFI’s Alchaar said
in August that a shortage of experts means they tend to sit on a
number of advisory boards simultaneously, increasing the risk of
conflicts of interest.  “Anything that can increase international synchronization
and standardization can only be positive,” Omar Shaikh, a
member of the Shariah board the Glasgow-based  Islamic Finance
Council U.K. , an adviser to companies and governments on Shariah
finance, said in a telephone interview in Dubai yesterday. It’s
a matter of “how you execute that against the various
jurisdictions,” he said.  Pakistan Sukuk  The International Islamic Liquidity Management Corp., being
set up by eleven central banks, will sell the first of its
short-term bills in dollars and the next in euros, Malaysian
central bank Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz  said in Kuala Lumpur
today. Issuances will “facilitate greater investment flows,”
the Kuala Lumpur-based Islamic Financial Services Board said in
an e-mailed statement on Oct. 25.  Pakistan has a Shariah advisory council, which has provided
regulations for Islamic finance that institutions follow in
developing their products,  Saleem Ullah , director of Islamic
banking at the State Bank of Pakistan, said in an interview in
Kuala Lumpur yesterday.  The Karachi-based central bank will sell 40 billion to 50
billion rupees ($582 million) of three-year sukuk in the
domestic market this week, Ullah said.  “The advantage of a national Shariah board is that you
will have total standardization,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 