-- Suu Kyi May Be Freed After Myanmar Vote in November, Asean Ministers Say
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-10-28T11:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/suu-kyi-may-be-freed-after-myanmar-vote-in-november-asean-ministers-say.html
Myanmar may release detained Nobel
laureate and opposition leader  Aung San Suu Kyi  following
November elections, a concession offered as Southeast Asian
leaders push the junta’s leaders to make the contest credible.  “We were told that she will have completed her term of
imprisonment by the first week, or first 10 days, probably after
the elections,”  Surin Pitsuwan , secretary-general of the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations, told reporters today in
Hanoi. “So we were told that there will be no more reason to
keep her in house arrest. But it was not a clear-cut
commitment.”  Myanmar has so far ignored calls from Asean, the  United
Nations , the U.S. and Europe to release some 2,000 political
dissidents, including Suu Kyi, prior to the Nov. 7 election. Suu
Kyi’s party, which won 92 percent of seats in a 1990 election
that was rejected by the military, is boycotting the vote.  Myanmar’s foreign minister told Asean counterparts today
that junta leader  Than Shwe  will not participate in the contest,
the first in two decades, Philippine Foreign Secretary Alberto
Romulo said to reporters. Still, the country’s constitution says
the president is picked by elected representatives, so he would
be eligible for the country’s top job, Romulo said.  “I think he will eventually be elected president," Romulo
said of Than Shwe.  The junta is allowing each country with an embassy in
Myanmar to send five people to observe the vote, Indonesia
Foreign Minister  Marty Natalegawa  told reporters in Hanoi, where
Asean leaders are meeting.  ‘Foregone Conclusion’  “The result is almost a foregone conclusion,” he said.
“But we want to ensure the election still provides a bridge
from the authorities in Myanmar to those elements who choose not
to take part.”  In August 2009, a court sentenced Suu Kyi to three years
with hard labor for violating her detention order. The sentence
was immediately commuted to 18 months of house arrest, which may
have begun in May 2009, when her previous detention term
expired.  Myanmar’s counterparts in Asean have engaged the junta to
bring about change, declining to follow the U.S. and Europe in
placing economic sanctions on the regime. The country’s
strategic location between China, India and Thailand has drawn
investment from its neighbors eager to capitalize on its natural
resources and access to the Indian Ocean.  ‘Beyond the Election’  “We should look beyond the election now,” Thai government
spokesman  Panitan Wattanayagorn  told reporters today.
“Stability, continuity and openness will be the key. A more
open Myanmar will be beneficial to all countries.”  The country formerly known as Burma has rejected criticism
of its election, with Nyan Win telling the UN General Assembly
last month that 37 political parties were participating, making
it “virtually inclusive.”  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  plans to attend
several Asean meetings in Hanoi this week, where Myanmar’s
election and Suu Kyi’s status are scheduled to be raised.
President  Barack Obama  called for Suu Kyi’s release when he met
with Asean leaders in New York last month.  Myanmar rejected an offer from the United Nations to
provide technical support for the election, United Nations
Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  said earlier this week. He plans
to meet  Than Shwe  in Hanoi.  Under Myanmar’s  constitution  approved in a 2008 referendum,
a quarter of the 498 seats in the national parliament and 665 at
the state or regional level are reserved for the military.  Scot Marciel , the U.S. ambassador to the Association of Southeast
Asian Nations at the time, called the referendum a “sham.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Hanoi at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  