-- Carlyle Agrees to Acquire Syniverse for $2.6 Billion
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-28T20:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/syniverse-to-go-private-in-2-6-billion-takeover-by-buyout-firm-carlyle.html
Carlyle Group, the world’s second-
largest private-equity firm, agreed to pay about $2.6 billion to
take  Syniverse Holdings Inc.  private, in its second
telecommunications buyout in as many days.  Carlyle is offering investors $31 a share in cash,
Syniverse said today in a statement. That’s a 30 percent premium
to yesterday’s closing price for the Tampa, Florida-based
company, which makes mobile-phone messaging and network
technology.  The telecommunications-gear industry, where many companies
were hit with spending cuts amid a global recession last year,
is rebounding as demand for mobile data services and network
equipment increases. Yesterday, Washington-based Carlyle agreed
to pay $3.9 billion for fiber-optic cable maker CommScope Inc.
to take advantage of demand for high-speed networks.  Private-equity firms are attracted to the industry because
of the “explosive, accelerating usage of mobile Internet
devices,” said  John Bright , an analyst with Avondale Partners
in Nashville, Tennessee, who rates Syniverse shares “market
perform” and doesn’t own any.  Other companies that may become targets include NeuStar
Inc. and VeriSign Inc. because of their businesses that are
related to mobile devices, Bright said.  NeuStar  spokesman Allen
Goldberg declined to comment, and VeriSign representatives
didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Syniverse  jumped  $6.71, or 28 percent, to $30.50 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading at 4 p.m. The stock has
gained 74 percent this year. NeuStar rose 21 cents to $24.88.
VeriSign  added  18 cents to $33.45 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Similar Deals  Syniverse reported lower sales and  profit  in 2009. The
company agreed to buy VeriSign’s messaging business last year to
help it tap into the growth in data plan use and texting for
wireless carriers.  Carlyle is paying investors about 11.4 times Syniverse’s
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
That’s in line with the median  Ebitda  multiple of 11 that
similar deals have commanded in the past nine years, according
to Bloomberg data.  Carlyle co-founder  David Rubenstein  said this month that
private-equity firms will target deals between $3 billion and $7
billion in size, eschewing larger acquisitions in favor of more
manageable buyouts.  Debt, Equity Financing  The telecommunications industry’s history of turbulence,
caused by shifting technologies, changing regulations and
cyclical demand, has lead to a “false pessimism that is causing
people to overlook real value in these markets,” James Attwood,
head of the telecommunications and media group at Carlyle, said
on the company’s  website .  The average premium for a telecommunications company, in
deals valued at $1 billion or more, was 30.5 percent during the
past two years, according to Bloomberg data. Carlyle said the
purchase price is 35 percent higher than Syniverse’s average
closing share price in the past 30 days.  Syniverse  board  has unanimously approved the deal, which
must still be ratified by investors and regulators, the
companies said. Barclays Plc and Credit Suisse Group AG provided
debt funding, while Carlyle will draw on its $13.7 billion
buyout fund for equity. The deal is expected to close in the
first quarter of 2011.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors and obtain
debt to finance takeovers with the intention of selling the
companies later for a profit.  Deutsche Bank AG was Syniverse’s financial adviser while
Evercore Partners Inc., Barclays and Credit Suisse worked for
Carlyle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  