-- U.K. Was Entitled Not to Refer Amalgamated to UN Over Congo, Court Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2010-10-28T17:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/u-k-was-entitled-not-to-refer-amalgamated-to-un-over-congo-court-says.html
The British government was justified
in not referring Amalgamated Metals Corp. to the United Nations
for sanctions over purchases of tin ore from the  Democratic
Republic of Congo , a court in London found.  The Foreign and Commonwealth Office was entitled to decide
AMC “has sought to terminate its activities in relation to the
DRC and that there was and is no evidence or concern regarding
any involvement by it in illegitimate trading activities in the
DRC to warrant a report to the UN,” the Administrative Court
ruled, according to a copy of a court filing the FCO e-mailed.  Campaign group Global Witness lodged a complaint in July,
saying the U.K. should have referred AMC for sanctions after a
UN report on Congo minerals said the company broke Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development guidelines. AMC’s unit,
 Thailand Smelting & Refining Co. , said Sept. 18, 2009, that it
had suspended purchases of tin ore from the country, carried out
“entirely lawfully,” because of the threat of bad publicity.  Since the mid-1990s, eastern Congo has been home to a
series of conflicts fueled by the region’s minerals riches.
Companies or individuals who buy minerals benefiting illegal
armed groups in Congo may face sanctions under a 2008 UN
resolution that was renewed in 2009. On Sept. 9, President
 Joseph Kabila  banned mining in three eastern provinces, saying
he aimed to root out “mafia groups” controlling the trade.  The OECD has issued draft guidelines for companies working
in conflict zones such as Congo. From next year a U.S. law will
require U.S. companies to certify that their mineral purchases
from Congo and its neighbors are “DRC conflict free.”  “The U.K. government welcomes measures to bring an end to
illegal activities in mining and the trade of minerals, and to
make the sector more productive and accountable,” the FCO said
in an e-mailed statement after the ruling. Global Witness
declined to comment when contacted by e-mail today.  A representative for AMC didn’t immediately respond to a
voicemail from Bloomberg News requesting comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Lubumbashi on 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  