-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Rises in `Prelude' to Cuts, GfK Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-29T09:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/u-k-consumer-confidence-unexpectedly-rises-in-prelude-to-budget-squeeze.html
U.K.  consumer confidence 
unexpectedly rose in October as sentiment held up before Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s government unveiled the scope of its
budget squeeze, GfK NOP Ltd. said.  The index of sentiment increased 1 point to minus 19, the
research group said in an e-mailed statement in London today.
Economists predicted a drop to minus 22, according to the median
of 20 forecasts in a  Bloomberg News survey . Gfk NOP compiled the
measure from a survey of 2,000 people from Oct. 1 to Oct. 10.  “This small rise in consumer confidence for October is
really only the prelude to what happens next,”  Nick Moon ,
managing director of GfK NOP Social Research, said in the
statement. “Confidence has remained reasonably consistent since
June but this could change as the public comprehends the full
impact of the government’s  cuts .”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  on Oct. 20
detailed plans for the deepest fiscal squeeze since World War
II, which will lead to the loss of almost half a million public-
sector jobs. While Britain’s economy grew twice as fast as
forecast in the second quarter, officials have said the impact
of the spending cuts may hamper the recovery.  Economic Growth  A gauge measuring the economic situation in the next 12
months fell by one point to minus 20, GfK said. The indexes of
consumers’ personal finances over the past year and in the next
12 months both rose, as did a measure of the past economic
situation. A gauge of the climate for major purchases was
unchanged at minus 15.  The Bank of England is mulling whether to restart emergency
bond purchases to boost economic growth, and minutes of the
bank’s October decision showed policy makers are leaning toward
expanding stimulus. Still, the economy expanded 0.8 percent in
the third quarter, twice as fast as economists predicted,
according to figures released this week.  Recent data have also shown house prices are declining,
with  Nationwide Building Society  saying yesterday that home
values dropped 0.7 percent in October.  Mortgage approvals  were
little changed in September from the previous month, the Bank of
England said in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  