-- U.K. House Prices Decline to Eight-Month Low, Nationwide Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-28T10:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/u-k-house-prices-decline-to-eight-month-low-nationwide-says.html
U.K.  house prices  fell in October to
the lowest level in eight months as the deepest government
spending cuts since World War II sapped confidence, a report by
Nationwide Building Society showed.  The average cost of a home dropped by 0.7 percent from
September to 164,381 pounds ($259,000), the lowest since
February, Britain’s biggest customer-owned lender said in an
e-mailed statement today. From a year earlier, prices increased
1.4 percent, the least since September 2009.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government last week
unveiled details of a budget squeeze that will lead to the loss
of almost half a million public-sector jobs. Minutes of the Bank
of England’s October  decision  showed policy makers are leaning
towards expanding stimulus to aid the economic recovery. They
will discuss more so-called quantitative easing again next week.  “It is impossible to say at this stage whether additional
quantitative easing would fully offset the various headwinds
currently facing the housing market, including the impact of the
measures announced” by the government, Nationwide Chief
Economist  Martin Gahbauer  said in the statement. Still, “it is
reasonable to expect that a resumption of quantitative easing
would provide some offsetting support to the housing market.”  House prices fell 1.5 percent in the three months through
October, the fastest quarterly pace of decline since April 2009,
Nationwide’s report showed.  Price ‘Volatility’  Recent housing data have been mixed. While a measure by
Halifax, a division of Lloyds Banking Group Plc, showed a 3.6
percent drop in September, the Land Registry said today that
values fell just 0.2 percent that month. Rightmove Plc, operator
of the U.K.’s biggest property website, said last week that home
sellers raised asking prices by 3.1 percent in October.  Bank of England policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said on Oct.
13 that recent house-price data showed “volatility” rather
than evidence of a property-market slump.  The number of Britons who expect house prices to fall still
outnumbered those forecasting an increase for the first time
since 2009 in the third quarter as concerns about the economy
mounted, Rightmove said on Oct. 25, citing a survey.  Declining confidence is also making consumers more
reluctant to spend at stores. A U.K. retail-sales index fell for
the first time in five months in October as the government’s
planned spending cuts undermined consumer confidence, a report
by the Confederation of British Industry showed today.  The U.K. central bank left its  benchmark interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent this month and kept its bond-buying
program at 200 billion pounds. Seven of the bank’s nine policy
makers voted for no change,  Adam Posen  favored more purchases
and Sentance opted for an interest-rate increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  