-- U.K. Spy-Agency Head Dismisses Torture Allegations in First Public Speech
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-10-28T10:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/u-k-spy-chief-uses-first-public-speech-to-dismisses-torture-allegations.html
The chief of Britain’s  Secret
Intelligence Service  used the first public speech by a head of
the organization to dismiss allegations of complicity in
torturing terror suspects after the Sept. 11 attacks.  “We are a service that reflects our country. Integrity is
the first of the service’s values,”  John Sawers  told media
editors in a televised address in London today. “I am confident
that, in their efforts to keep Britain safe, all SIS staff acted
with the utmost integrity, and with a close eye on basic decency
and moral principles.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  ordered an inquiry July 6 into
allegations U.K. intelligence agencies were complicit in the
torture of terrorist suspects overseas and offered compensation
to detainees who were mistreated. The inquiry, to be headed by a
former judge, will start when civil and criminal claims against
the U.K. have been settled and will report within a year.  “If we know or believe action by us will lead to torture
taking place, we’re required by U.K. and international law to
avoid that action. And we do, even though that allows the
terrorist activity to go ahead,” said Sawers, whose agency is
known popularly as MI6. He described torture as “abhorrent.”  “While there is no direct evidence any British officer was
directly engaged in torture in the aftermath of 9/11, there are
questions over the degree to which British officers were working
with foreign security services who were treating detainees in
ways they should not have done,” Cameron said in July.  Hoods, Shackles  Since 2001, about a dozen court cases have been brought
against U.K. security officials, including allegations that they
witnessed the use of hoods and shackles on suspects, leading to
accusations British agents may have been complicit in torture,
Cameron said.  The heads of Britain’s two other security agencies have
also made public speeches in recent weeks as the government
seeks to make the bodies more publicly accountable.  Iain Lobban, the director of  Government Communications
Headquarters , said two weeks ago that more than 20,000 malicious
e-mails are sent to government networks each month, arguing the
British economy and national infrastructure are at risk from
cyber warfare. Cameron announced after a defense review last
week that the U.K. will spend 650 million pounds ($1 billion) on
improving cyber security.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eddie Buckle  in Berlin at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 