-- U.S. Life-Settlement Market Declines 36% in 2009 Amid `Economic Turmoil'
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-10-28T18:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/u-s-life-settlement-market-declines-36-in-2009-amid-economic-turmoil-.html
The U.S. life-settlement market, in
which investors buy life-insurance policies to collect benefits,
declined last year as hedge funds and private equity firms had
less capital to spend amid a recession, a research firm said.  Policies sold by insured individuals in 2009 had a face
value of about $8 billion, a decrease of 36 percent from a year
earlier,  Conning & Co . said today in a statement.  “During 2009, a significant decrease in investor capital
reduced the ability of life-settlement funds to purchase new
policies,”  Scott Hawkins , an analyst for Hartford, Connecticut-
based Conning, said in the statement.  About $35 billion of U.S. life settlements were in force at
the end of last year, up 16 percent from 2008, Conning said.
Investors pay the premiums after buying the policies, and make
money if the remaining costs are less than the final payout when
the seller dies.  Conning said the industry was hampered also by new methods
for calculating life expectancy. Underwriters made the changes
in late 2008 and early 2009, extending average estimates for
life expectancy and creating uncertainty about the accuracy of
earlier contracts.  “First there was the economic turmoil that dried up some
investor wealth,” Hawkins said in an interview. “That was
compounded by concerns about the accuracy of life expectancies.  Apollo Global Management LLC , the private-equity firm
founded by  Leon Black , was bidding on $6 billion of life-
insurance policies held by Belgian bank  KBC Groep NV , two people
with knowledge of the talks said this month.  Life settlements are being sold at “distressed pricing”
on the secondary market, according to a  document  included in a
presentation by the Oregon Investment Council, a state pension
plan, on Sept. 29. Regulators in Europe are encouraging banks to
divest their non-core assets, the pension fund said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at   dkraut@bloomberg.net  