-- Most U.S. Stocks Retreat on 3M Forecast; Halliburton Slumps
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-10-28T20:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/u-s-stock-index-futures-rise-symantec-las-vegas-sands-akamai-increase.html
Most U.S. stocks fell as 3M Co.
drove industrial shares lower after cutting its profit forecast,
helping erase an early gain triggered by Exxon Mobil Corp.’s
better-than-estimated earnings report.  3M sank 5.9 percent, the most since February 2009, after
saying full-year earnings will be 6 cents lower than previously
forecast.  Halliburton Co.  dropped 8 percent as a report cited
unstable cement the company recommended to cap BP Plc’s Gulf of
Mexico oil well as a factor in the spill. Exxon rose 0.8 percent
as growing global fuel demand helped boost earnings.  About five stocks declined for every four that advanced on
U.S. exchanges. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 0.1
percent to 1,183.78 at 4 p.m. in New York after climbing as much
as 0.6 percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  decreased 12.33
points, or 0.1 percent, to 11,113.95. The Dollar Index, a gauge
of the currency versus six major peers, lost 1.1 percent.  “There’s too much noise,” said  Cliff Remily , a money
manager at Santa Fe, New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment
Management, which oversees $69 billion. “Most corporate
earnings have been good but that’s priced into the market.
There’s uncertainty about the election, the Fed policy, the
weakening dollar. The economic picture has been mixed. Some
people might be selling as we approach the end of the fiscal
year for funds.”  The S&P 500 has risen as much as 16 percent from this
year’s low in July on better-than-estimated corporate earnings
and speculation the Federal Reserve will buy bonds to stimulate
the economy.  Quantitative Easing  Treasuries rose and the U.S. dollar fell today as the Fed
asked bond dealers and investors for projections of central bank
asset purchases over the next six months, along with the likely
effect on yields, as it seeks to gauge the possible impact of
new efforts to spur growth.  The New York Fed survey, obtained by Bloomberg News, asks
about expectations for the initial size of any new program of
debt purchases and the time over which the second round of
quantitative easing would be completed. It also asks firms how
often they anticipate the Fed will re-evaluate the program, and
to estimate its ultimate size.  The central bank is expected to announce a decision on its
quantitative easing strategy at the conclusion of the Federal
Open Market Committee’s Nov. 2-3 meeting.  Elections  Investors are also waiting for the results of the upcoming
Nov. 2 Congressional elections. Forty-three percent of
respondents to a Gallup Inc. poll released this week rated
economic conditions as the most important of four issues in
considering in how they would vote.  3M slipped 5.9 percent to $85.07. The maker of sanding
belts and Scotch tape reduced the top end of its annual forecast
by 6 cents to $5.74, citing acquisitions announced in the third
quarter.  Halliburton slumped 8 percent to $31.68, the biggest drop
since June 1. A government report said cement the company
recommended to seal BP’s Gulf of Mexico well may have
contributed to the largest offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  Apple Inc. slumped 0.8 percent to $305.24 after Motorola
Inc., its rival in the mobile-phone business, reported third-
quarter earnings that topped analysts’ estimates and said
revenue increased for the first time in almost four years.  Motorola Co-Chief Executive Officer  Sanjay Jha ’s focus on
Google Inc.’s Android operating system is paying dividends as
the software catches on with customers. This year, Android
passed Apple’s iPhone to become the most popular smartphone
standard among new U.S. buyers, according to Nielsen Co.,
helping drive sales of Motorola’s line of Droid phones.  Seagate Technology  Seagate Technology Plc declined 8.4 percent to $13.94. KKR
& Co. may drop out of a group of investors in talks to buy the
world’s largest maker of disk drives, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter. The other investors in the group
are TPG Capital and Bain Capital, and KKR’s exit doesn’t mean
the deal would fall apart, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  Stocks rose earlier today as government data showed that
applications for U.S. unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell
last week to the lowest level in three months, a signal the
labor market may be starting to mend. Initial jobless  claims 
decreased by 21,000 to 434,000 in the week ended Oct. 23, the
lowest since early July when fewer auto plants than normal
closed for retooling, Labor Department figures showed.  ‘On the Mend’  “The economy is on the mend,” said  Stanley Nabi , New
York-based vice chairman of Silvercrest Asset Management Group,
which oversees $9 billion. “We’ve been watching improvement on
the jobs front. It’s the kind of situation where things may not
be strongly positive, but they’re definitely not negative. In
addition to that, corporate earnings are strong.”  Exxon Mobil rose 0.8 percent to $66.22. Third-quarter net
income rose 55 percent to $7.35 billion, or $1.44 a share, from
$4.73 billion, or 98 cents, a year earlier. Per-share profit was
5 cents more than the average of 14 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Symantec gained 4.1 percent to $16.45. Revenue in the
period ending Dec. 31 will be $1.57 billion to $1.59 billion,
Symantec said yesterday. Analysts projected $1.55 billion.
Third-quarter profit excluding certain costs will be 32 cents to
33 cents a share, compared with the 32-cent average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Eastman Kodak Co. jumped 15 percent to $4.58 for the
biggest rally in the S&P 500. The camera maker said sales in the
third quarter were $1.76 billion, higher than the $1.61 billion
average estimate of analysts.  Earnings-per-share have topped estimates at about 82
percent of the 270 companies in the S&P 500 that have reported
since Oct. 7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Net
income has grown 37 percent for the group as sales have
increased 9.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 Mregan12@bloomberg.net . 