-- Lufthansa's Austrian Airlines, BMI Brands Log First Post-Purchase Profits
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-10-28T16:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/lufthansa-reports-tripling-of-company-s-operating-profit-in-third-quarter.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG ’s Austrian
Airlines and British Midland units posted a quarterly profit for
the first time since their purchase last year after the German
carrier slashed jobs and imposed new strategic plans.  Operating income in the three months ended Sept. 30 reached
23 million euros ($32 million) at  Austrian Airlines  and 3
million euros at British Midland. Total earnings at Cologne-
based Lufthansa on that basis tripled to 783 million euros.  Lufthansa has cut almost 1,300 jobs at Austrian, reducing
the workforce to just over 7,000, and said today that the unit
is on target for a full-year operating profit next year. The
German company has also slashed 800 of 4,500 positions at
British Midland, the No. 2 carrier at London’s Heathrow airport,
and predicts the division will achieve an annual profit in 2012.  “After a bumpy start to the year, we accomplished a
remarkable comeback and have now reached cruising altitude far
more quickly than could have been expected,” Lufthansa Chief
Executive Officer  Wolfgang Mayrhuber  said in an earnings
presentation. “The recovery of the market has helped us to
record positive results in all of the business segments.”  Lufthansa  gained  0.8 percent at 15.56 euros at the 5:30
p.m. close of trading in Frankfurt, taking the stock’s gain to
32 percent this year and valuing Europe’s second-biggest airline
at 7.1 billion euros.  Cabin Investment  Mayrhuber said that Lufthansa, which also owns Swiss
International Airlines and a stake in Brussels Airlines, must
complete the revamp of existing assets before further purchases
and is not close to any investment in Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT
SA, in which Poland plans to sell a minority stake next year.  At British Midland, or BMI, Lufthansa said it will
introduce new processes and more efficient routines to lift
productivity and also invest in the unit’s planes to improve
cabin equipment as it seeks to lift ticket prices in the U.K.  At Austrian, the restructuring is continuing, Lufthansa
said, with a new route strategy introduced with the winter
timetable and market share already increasing in Vienna.  Lufthansa is also cutting costs by 1 billion euros through
2011 at the main airline unit, which it said should post a
“substantively positive” operating profit this year after
losing 203 million euros in the first half.  Earnings are being boosted by higher demand for inter-
continental travel, which helped lift ticket prices, and by an
increase in cargo traffic. Lufthansa said yesterday it expects
annual group-wide operating profit to exceed 800 million euros.  JetBlue, Sky Chefs  Net income  was 628 million euros across the group in the
third quarter, up from 209 million euros a year earlier,
Lufthansa said in a statement, adding that said it plans to
resume dividend payments this year.  Earnings will continue to develop “positively,” with any
slowing of global economic growth due to the base effect of
tougher year-earlier figures, Chief Financial Officer  Stephan Gemkow  said in an interview.  Lufthansa plans to retain its holding in New York-based
JetBlue Airways Corp., Gemkow said. British Airways Plc CEO
 Willie Walsh  said last month that the unit might be a bid target
after Continental Airlines was bought United Airlines, a
Lufthansa ally, adding a hub in nearby Newark.  Among the fastest-growing businesses in coming months will
be the Lufthansa Technik maintenance and engineering unit and
the LSG Sky Chefs in-flight catering division, Gemkow said. The
company will consider its options for the latter as it grows,
“to see whether we are the right parent,” the executive said.  Gategroup Holding AG, the biggest global rival to Sky
Chefs, said this month that it will use proceeds from a capital
increase to fund purchases and is interested in acquiring the
food units of carriers including Japan Airlines Corp.  Lufthansa will reach a decision next year on whether to
order Boeing Co.’s 787 Dreamliner plane or the rival A350 from
Airbus SAS, Mayrhuber said. Gemkow added that the company hasn’t
yet decided how much capacity it needs to add of whether there’s
a possibility of an order for both models.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  