-- UN's Tribunal on Hariri Undeterred By Attack on Investigators in Lebanon
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-10-28T18:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/un-hariri-tribunal-undeterred-by-attack-on-its-investigators-in-lebanon.html
The  United Nations tribunal 
investigating the killing of former Lebanese premier  Rafiq Hariri  said it is undeterred by an attack on its investigators
at a clinic in a southern suburb of Beirut.  Two investigators and their interpreter were “violently
attacked” yesterday morning by “a large group of people” when
they went to meet a doctor at a private women’s clinic, the
Special Tribunal for Lebanon said in a statement late yesterday.  The Lebanese army rescued the three staff members, and they
received medical attention, according to a statement from the
prosecutor’s office at the Hague-based court.  The attack “is a deplorable attempt to obstruct justice,”
the tribunal said in the statement. “Those who carried out this
attack must know that violence will not deter the Special
Tribunal for Lebanon, a court of law, from fulfilling its
mandate.”  Tensions have risen in the country in anticipation of an
indictment by the UN tribunal, which may implicate members of
the militant Shiite Muslim Hezbollah movement, a member of U.S.-
backed Prime Minister  Saad Hariri ’s national unity government.  Hariri supports the inquiry into his father’s
assassination, while  Hezbollah  says the court was set up
unconstitutionally, is politicized and biased, and should be
abolished. A showdown over the issue could lead to violence,
according to Paul Salem, director of the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace’s Middle East Center in Beirut.  Women Charged Clinic  A crowd of women charged the clinic and attacked the
investigators, Iman Sharara, the doctor at the clinic, told
local Lebanese television channels.  The visit was handled “in accordance with legal
safeguards,” had been approved by the Lebanese authorities, and
investigators were accompanied by members of the judicial police
and the army, the court said.  Several items belonging to the tribunal staff were stolen
during the attack and Lebanese authorities are investigating,
the court said. Hezbollah has said it had nothing to do with the
incident.  In a televised speech tonight Hezbollah’s leader  Hassan Nasrallah  reiterated his attack on the tribunal saying it was
biased and collecting information outside the realm of the
investigation into the killing of Hariri and sharing it with
Israel and the U.S.  “I call on every official and every citizen in Lebanon to
boycott the investigators and not to cooperate with them,”
Nasrallah said. “Continued cooperation with the investigators
contributes to attacks on the resistance,” he said, referring
to Hezbollah.  Hezbollah, classified by the U.S. and Israel as a terrorist
organization, won popularity in Lebanon by helping force
Israel’s army to withdraw from the country in 2000, ending an
18-year occupation. Lebanon has seen repeated episodes of
sectarian strife since a 15-year civil war ended in 1990.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 