-- United Nations Carbon Credit Prices May Increase, Barclays Says
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2010-10-28T07:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/united-nations-carbon-credit-prices-may-increase-barclays-says.html
Barclays Plc  forecasts that prices
of United Nations Certified Emission Reduction credits will rise
as new rules reduce supplies, an analyst said.  The issuance of as much as 30 million metric tons of CERs
under UN’s Clean Development Mechanism may be delayed to next
year, cutting this year’s supplies by about 30 percent,  Trevor Sikorski , a London-based analyst at Barclays, said in an
interview at the Carbon Asia Forum 2010 conference in Singapore
today.  The UN and the European Union said they may issue new rules
on the methodology of issuance and acceptance of carbon credits
for hydro-fluorocarbon (HFC) combustion plants and other
industrial gases. The European Commission, regulator of the EU
program, plans to publish an impact assessment on offset
restrictions by November and said in May that projects related
to two industrial gases -- HFC-23 and nitrous oxide --create
significant windfall profits and may be banned after 2012. A
proposed U.S. energy law bans HFC credits.  “The European Union rule change would be taking away
demand for certain Certified Emission Reductions credits,”
Sikorski said. “It will not impact investments but it will
change CER prices.”  Prices of CERs, which typically track prices of European
Union carbon allowances, will rise as UN restrictions will
reduce supplies of HFC-linked CERs and EU rules will force
utilities and other users to switch to credits from renewable
energy industries, he said.  Industrial Gases  Barclays raised its estimate for European Union carbon
allowance prices in the second half of this year by 3.3 percent
to 15.50 euros a ton and to 20 euros a ton next year. CDM
offsets are currently used for compliance in the European
Union’s carbon market, the world’s biggest. UN CERs for December
rose 0.4 percent to 12.89 euros a ton yesterday on London’s
European Climate Exchange.  Prices of HFC-linked CERs, which may have to be sold in
other markets, may trade at a discount of as low as 7 euros a
ton once the new EU and UN rules kick in, he said. The UN may
also consider restrictions on industrial gases such as nitrous
oxide or N2O, he said.  HFC-23 is a byproduct of HCFC-22, which is used for
refrigerators and air conditioners. HFC-23 plants combust the
potent greenhouse gas that can trap 11,700 times more heat per
molecule than carbon dioxide. HFC credits and industrial gases
make up more than 70 percent of the total CDM supply since 2005,
and are largely generated by plants in China and India,
according to Barclays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  