-- Hutchison Whampoa Leading Record Asia Perpetual Sales
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-10-28T10:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/hutchison-whampoa-noble-lead-record-asia-perpetual-sales-credit-markets.html
Billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. , Noble Group Ltd. and other Asian companies are
selling a record amount of bonds with no fixed maturities as
investors in search of higher yields buy riskier securities.  Hutchison, the telecom, ports and property company based in
Hong Kong, sold $2 billion of 6 percent perpetual notes last
week, boosting total sales in Asia this year to $6.6 billion,
the most since Bloomberg started gathering the data a decade
ago. Commodity supplier  Noble  issued $350 million of the notes
yesterday to yield 8.5 percent, after offering 4.875 percent
five-year securities in August.  Record low benchmark interest rates in the U.S., Europe and
Japan are dragging down yields around the world, prompting
investors to seek higher returns from perpetual notes. In Asia,
the securities yield as much as 400 basis points, or 4
percentage points, more than 30-year Treasuries, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is a way for investors to pick up extra yield from
companies operating in a region that’s still growing and not
marred by the problems of the U.S. and Europe,”  Scott Bennett ,
Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd.’s regional head of credit,
said in a telephone interview from Singapore.  Perpetual bonds pay more than securities with a set
maturity to compensate investors for the risk the notes won’t be
called. They’re generally senior to equity and subordinated to
other types of debt, and may contain terms stipulating that
coupons must be paid if a dividend has been declared.  Such equity-related features mean the securities may lower
a company’s debt-to-equity ratio.  “It’s a story of extra yield for investors and cheap,
callable equity for issuers,” Bennett said.  Travelers, Volkswagen  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt fell 1 basis point to 164 basis points,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Corporate Index. The spread has narrowed from this year’s high
of 201 basis points on June 11. Yields averaged 3.515 percent,
from 3.483 percent Oct. 26.  The cost of insuring Ireland’s government debt against
default soared as  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  bondholders planned to
oppose a proposed debt exchange that imposes losses of
more than 1.3 billion euros ($1.8 billion) on their holdings.  Creditors holding a 690 million-euro “blocking position”
of notes will vote against the deal worth 20 percent of their
1.6 billion euros of securities, according to a statement from
financial adviser Houlihan Lokey today. Dublin-based Anglo
Irish, nationalized by the government in 2009, made the offer on
Oct. 21.  Ireland Swaps  Credit-default swaps insuring Irish debt rose 21 basis
points, the most in a month, to a four-week high of 465,
according to data provider CMA. Contracts tied to Anglo Irish
Bank’s subordinated notes fell.  Credit-default swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Contracts pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Travelers Cos., the New York-based insurer added to the Dow
Jones Industrial Average in 2009, sold $500 million of 3.9
percent, 10-year notes and $750 million of 5.35 percent, 30-year
bonds in an issue boosted from $1 billion, Bloomberg data show.  The company tapped the U.S. corporate bond market after
Chief Executive Officer  Jay Fishman  told investors last week the
cost of debt versus equity has widened to the most he’s seen in
his career. Companies tendered for $30.5 billion of bonds last
month, the most since April, and may buy another $24.3 billion
this month, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Continued Onslaught’  “There’s a continued onslaught of companies trying to buy
back their debt,” said  Tom Murphy , a money manager who helps
oversee more than $22 billion of investment-grade credit at
Columbia Management in Minneapolis.  The weighted average  cost of debt capital  for Travelers is
0.61 percent, while the weighted average cost of equity capital
is 7.27 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Bonds from Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric
Co. were the most actively traded U.S. corporate securities by
dealers yesterday with 146 trades of $1 million or more,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Leveraged Loans  The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index  rose
0.03 cent to 91.22 cents on the dollar, the highest since May
10. The index, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated
first-lien leveraged loans, has returned 1.6 percent this month.  The extra yield investors demand to hold emerging-market
bonds rather than government debentures rose 1 basis point to
254 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co data.  Noble’s 8.5 percent coupon matches the highest the company,
which counts China Investment Corp. as a shareholder, has ever
paid on a bond, equaling what it offered to borrow $500 million
for five years in May 2008, Bloomberg data show.  It’s also the third-highest coupon paid on a dollar-
denominated perpetual bond this year, the data show.  Netherlands-based Credit Europe Bank NV’s $125.75 million
of perpetual notes sold in June pay the highest at 11.5 percent,
followed by Brazil-based BR Properties SA’s $200 million of 9
percent notes sold on Sept. 30. Noble didn’t pay a dividend for
the six months ended June 30.  Yield Expectations  “The perpetual bond is attractive to bond investors
because of its relatively high yield, which is ever harder to
find in the investment-grade space in this low-interest rate
environment,” said Bennett, who helps oversee $1.5 billion of
Asia-Pacific fixed-income assets at Aberdeen. “Investors’ hunt
for yield is taking them down the road of longer tenor bonds.”  Perpetual bonds issued by Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA,
Brazil’s third-largest steelmaker, are underperforming the
country’s  debt  market after the company sold the securities at a
lower yield than some investors expected. CSN’s bonds returned
0.3 percent since their Sept. 16 issue, compared with a 2.4
percent  rally  in Brazilian corporate bonds, according to
JPMorgan’s CEMBI index.  The debt is slumping after the Rio de Janeiro-based company
boosted the size of the sale by 25 percent to $1 billion and
paid a yield of 7 percent, or 75 basis points less than
investors anticipated, according to Jefferies & Co.  Cosan SA
Industria & Comercio , the world’s largest sugar-cane processor,
and shopping mall operator  General Shopping Brazil SA  may be
forced to pay higher yields on planned offerings of perpetuals,
because of the decline in CSN notes, RBS Securities Inc. said.  Hutchison Perpetual Notes  Hutchison sold $2 billion of 6 percent perpetual notes last
week with an option to buy back the securities after five years.
The company’s $2.2 billion of fixed-rate notes which mature in
September 2015, one month before the perpetual bonds are
callable, pay a coupon of 4.625 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Hutchison hasn’t increased its HK$1.73 (22 U.S. cents) a
share dividend since 2000, resulting in a stock yield of around
2.2 percent. Li said in March the company may consider raising
the payout this year if earnings from its third-generation phone
business meet targets.  Stocks, bonds and currencies are poised to rise in emerging
markets as a second round of bond purchases by the  Federal
Reserve  gives investors more money to shift there,  Michael Hartnett , Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s chief global equity
strategist, wrote in a research note dated Oct. 21. Hartnett
assumes the Fed will seek to buy $500 billion to $750 billion of
bonds in a move known as quantitative easing. Fed policy makers
are scheduled to meet on Nov. 2-3.  ‘Sprung to Life’  “The market in Asia has sprung to life because of the
extremely low interest rates elsewhere,”  Elizabeth Allen ,
Moody’s Investors Service’s senior credit officer, said in a
telephone interview from Hong Kong. “Perpetual notes are priced
off U.S. Treasuries so issuers can get away with paying a fairly
cheap coupon while getting a degree of equity benefit.”  The $1 billion of perpetual notes sold last month by Cheung
Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd., a Hutchison unit, pay a 6.625
percent coupon, higher than the 5.75 percent investors accepted
in September 2009 to lend the company the same amount for 10-
years, Bloomberg data show.  S&P assigned a BBB rating to Hutchison’s perpetual notes
and said the sale shows the company’s commitment to reducing
debt levels.  “Some perpetual bonds have the ability to act as capital
to varying degrees, depending on where they sit in a company’s
capital structure,” said  Rogerio Bernardo , fixed-income
syndicate director at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
Singapore. RBS managed Noble’s sale with JPMorgan and Standard
Chartered Plc.  Hutchison’s 6 percent coupon is the lowest paid on a
dollar-denominated perpetual bond this year, compared with 2
percent in 2009, when credit markets rallied, handing investors
the best returns in more than a decade, according to Bloomberg
data and Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Corporate Index.  “Asia-Pacific is leading the way globally in terms of the
hybrid market resurgence,” Melbourne-based S&P analyst  Paul Draffin  said in an  online  broadcast Oct. 21. “Given the level
of market interest we’d expect this to continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  