-- Vale Says India Likely to Play Bigger Role in Iron Ore Market `Tightness'
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   J e s s i c a   B r i c e
-- 2010-10-28T14:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/vale-says-india-likely-to-play-bigger-role-in-iron-ore-market-tightness-.html
Vale SA , the world’s biggest iron-
ore producer, said India may play a bigger role in ensuring a
“tight” future market for the steelmaking ingredient as it
boosts infrastructure spending and becomes more urbanized.  India “could come to contribute in a relevant way to the
heating up of the iron-ore market in the medium-term,” Vale
said. “We expect the iron-ore market to stay heated in the near
future, given the lack of significant growth in supplies of
high-quality iron ore and rising demand in China.”  Vale said yesterday its  third-quarter profit  more than
tripled, after prices for the raw material surged. China
accounts for 46 percent of Vale’s iron-ore and pellet sales,
while Japan takes 10 percent, South Korea buys 4.8 percent and
India and other Asian nations receive 3.7 percent.  “The company should continue to deliver ‘peak’ results
over the next 2-3 years,” Barclays Capital analysts led by
 Leonardo Correa  said in an e-mailed note to clients today. The
market is expected to remain “undersupplied,” he said.  Vale  rose 34 centavos, or 0.7 percent, to 49.06 reais at
9:48 a.m. New York time in Sao Paulo trading. The stock rose 15
percent this year until yesterday, more than the 2.9 percent
gain for Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index.  The company based in Rio de Janeiro is boosting capacity at
Carajas, the world’s largest iron-ore mine, and may surpass OAO
GMK Norilsk Nickel as the world’s largest nickel company next
year, Chief Executive Officer  Roger Agnelli  said Oct. 20.  Profit Climbed  Third-quarter profit climbed to $6.04 billion, or $1.13 a
share, from $1.68 billion, or 31 cents, in the year-ago period,
Vale said yesterday in a regulatory filing. The company was
expected to post per-share profit of $1.03 on an adjusted basis,
according to the  average  of 13 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
The results, based on U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles, were released yesterday after regular trading.  Quarterly profit topped a previous record of $5.01 billion
in the second quarter of 2008.  Vale and rivals  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and Rio Tinto Group this
year broke with a system of setting iron-ore prices once a year
in favor of quarterly agreements. Prices more than doubled in
the quarter to $128.21 per ton, from $57.23 a year earlier, Vale
said. Sales volumes were little changed at 68 million tons,
compared with 66.8 million tons in the year earlier period.  The iron-ore market will likely remain “tight” in the
near future because of a lack of new supply and increasing
demand from China, the world’s largest consumer. The nation is
looking to higher ore grades such as those from Brazil because
it can help reduce the nation’s energy usage, according to Vale.  ‘Important Contributor’  India is a “potential important contributor to medium-term
tightness of the iron ore market,” Vale said. The country’s
urbanization rate is 30 percent compared with China’s 47
percent, its industry is small in relative terms and the
government plans to boost infrastructure spending, Vale said.  Asia’s third-largest economy will consume more steel than
previously expected on increased demand from construction
companies and carmakers, according to the nation’s steel
ministry. Consumption may increase 10 percent in the year ending
March 31, compared with an April 6 forecast of a 9 percent
increase, the ministry said Sept. 6. Consumption climbed 9.7
percent to 24.8 million metric tons between April and August,
from 22.6 million tons in the year-earlier period.  India, ranked below war-ravaged Ivory Coast and Sri Lanka
for the quality of infrastructure, needs to spend $2.2 trillion
by 2030 on transportation, housing and office space in its
cities to accelerate growth, McKinsey & Co. said April 22.  ‘Full Capacity’  “Our operations around the world are working at full
capacity,” Agnelli said last week at an investor event in New
York. Vale is “in the best moment of our history,” he said.  Vale  is planning to start producing the mineral from
Guinea’s Simandou project by the end of 2012. The company is
also investing to expand production of non-ferrous minerals,
including copper and fertilizers.  Vale said Oct. 18 that third-quarter iron-ore output
increased 24 percent amid rising demand. The company produced
82.6 million tons of the steelmaking raw material in the
quarter, the highest since record output of 85.8 million tons in
the third quarter of 2008.  Carajas Output  Carajas’s output rose 21 percent to a record 27 million
tons after the end of some operational problems in the port
terminal of Ponta da Madeira, Vale said. An improvement in the
performance of the Carajas railway and the end of the rainy
season in the Amazon also contributed to the increase, the
company said in a regulatory filing last week.  Vale is selling all its output and benefiting from growth
in China, South Korea and Brazil, Agnelli said. Demand for
metals in Europe is “only okay” and “not getting worse,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
 Jessica Brice  in Sao Paulo at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  