-- Verizon to Pay $25 Million for Mystery Fees, FCC Says
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-10-28T20:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/verizon-wireless-to-repay-customers-for-mystery-fees-fcc-says.html
Verizon Wireless  agreed to pay a
record $25 million to the U.S. and refund at least $52.8 million
to customers, ending an investigation into “mystery fees”
charged to consumers, federal regulators said.  The payment is the largest in a settlement by the Federal
Communications Commission, the agency said today in an e-mail
statement. About 15 million customers will get refunds and
Verizon Wireless, the biggest U.S. mobile-phone company, will
ensure the fees don’t recur, the agency said.  “People shouldn’t find mystery fees when they open their
phone bills,” FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said in a
statement. “They certainly shouldn’t have to pay for services
they didn’t want and didn’t use.’  At issue were overcharges for data usage during the past
three years, the agency said. The FCC started an investigation
in January after customers complained of charges for data
services they didn’t initiate.  The FCC is investigating other complaints as well,
Genachowski said in an Oct. 13 speech, and the agency in an Oct.
12 fact sheet distributed by e-mail said it was looking into
practices at ‘‘other mobile providers.”  Verizon Wireless “made inadvertent billing mistakes,”  Tom Pica , a company spokesman, said in an e-mail message. “We
accept responsibility for those errors, and apologize to our
customers who received accidental data charges on their bills.”  The company, based in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, is owned
by  Verizon Communications Inc.  and  Vodafone Group Plc .  ‘Bill Shocks’  The FCC said the voluntary agreement is part of a campaign
to improve consumer protections. On Oct. 14, the agency started
writing regulations aimed at helping mobile-phone users avoid
“bill shocks,” or sudden and unexpected increases in their
monthly bills.  The rules may require companies led by Verizon and  AT&T
Inc.  to give subscribers notice when they near the monthly
limits on their service plan.  Mobile-phone companies said rules aren’t needed because
companies give customers ways to track use of data, voice and
text features.  Verizon Wireless on Oct. 3 said it would pay refunds to 15
million customers in the next two months as compensation for
incorrect billing. Most of the refunds will be $2 to $6, the
company said.  The FCC said the erroneous fees were triggered by data
transfers initiated automatically by applications built into the
phone, such as games; accessing Web links designated as free,
including the Verizon Wireless Mobile Web home page; and
unsuccessful attempts to access data when network coverage was
insufficient to complete a connection.  FCC Disclosures  Verizon Wireless’s repayment obligations aren’t capped and
customers who don’t receive a refund and think they had
unauthorized data charges may appeal, the FCC said. Verizon
Wireless is required to disclose any unresolved complaints to
the FCC.   Verizon fell 10 cents to $32.41 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading at 4 p.m.  The previous largest settlement in an FCC investigation was
$24 million paid by Univision Communications Inc. in 2007 to
settle allegations the television broadcaster failed to provide
enough educational programs for children.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 