-- Vietnam Should Slow Growth, Let Interest Rates Increase, Jim Walker Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-28T06:49:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/vietnam-should-slow-growth-let-interest-rates-increase-jim-walker-says.html
Vietnam should let interest rates
increase and slow  economic growth  to boost confidence in its
currency, Asianomics Ltd. Managing Director  Jim Walker  said.  “There’s too much credit growth,”  Walker  said at a
conference in Ho Chi Minh City today. “The reason that the
exchange rate is soft is that they’ve printed too much money.”  Repeated calls by the government this year for lower
commercial lending and deposit rates have undermined market
confidence, the International Monetary Fund  said last month .
Vietnamese Prime Minister  Nguyen Tan Dung  said on Oct. 20 that
economic growth may accelerate next year to 7.5 percent from 6.7
percent in 2010.  “The exchange rate will continue to be on a depreciation
trend until the government gets its act together on interest
rates,” Walker said at the conference organized by VinaCapital
Investment Management Ltd., the country’s biggest fund manager.  The State Bank of Vietnam has devalued the dong three times
in the past year, and further such moves are likely given the
government’s “growth bias,” Standard Chartered Plc said Oct.
26.  Vietnamese banks’ deposit and lending rates fell from Oct.
15- 21, the central bank said yesterday. The Southeast Asian
nation is targeting 25 percent credit growth this year.  Current interest rates of about 11 percent for deposits and
13 percent to 15 percent for borrowing have to go up further to
cool the economy, Walker said.  Accelerating Inflation  Commercial deposit and lending rates should rise by about
200 basis points and economic growth should slow to about 5
percent or 6 percent, Walker said in an interview after his
speech.  Vietnam also needs to reduce its  consumer inflation rate  to
less than 5 percent, he said. The nation’s consumer price growth
accelerated in October to 9.66 percent, the fastest in 19 months.  “In Vietnam, there’s too much money supply growth,” said
Hong Kong-based Walker, the former chief economist at CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets. “That’s why the exchange rate is weak and
inflation is high.”  On the so-called black market, the Vietnamese dong weakened
yesterday to as much as 20,230 per dollar at money changers in
Ho Chi Minh City, according to a telephone information service
run by the state-owned Vietnam Posts & Telecommunications. The
currency’s official exchange rate as of 10:30 a.m. Hanoi time
was 19,490.  “While the government is currently looking to push
commercial lending rates lower in order to facilitate credit
growth and economic expansion, the resumption of inflation is
likely to force the authorities to review this policy stance,”
 Tai Hui , the Singapore-based head of Southeast Asian economic
research at  Standard Chartered , said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Folkmanis  in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at   canstey@bloomberg.net  