-- Volvo Cars May Reduce Supplier Base to Shave Costs, Purchasing Chief Says
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2010-10-28T14:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/volvo-cars-may-cut-suppliers-by-up-to-33-to-reduce-costs-ejbyfeldt-says.html
Volvo Cars, the Swedish carmaker
owned by China’s  Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. , may cut its
supplier base by as much as 33 percent to reduce costs and
simplify manufacturing, purchasing chief Bernt Ejbyfeldt said.  “We have a lot of small suppliers, and we want the right
ones that will focus on us as a company,” Ejbyfeldt said today
in a phone interview from the company’s Gothenburg headquarters.  Volvo  is considering reducing the number of suppliers to
about 300 from 450 currently, Ejbyfeldt said. The 20 biggest,
which account for about 70 percent of the parts, will gain as
smaller ones around Europe are phased out, he said.  Chief Executive Officer  Stefan Jacoby  needs to reduce
spending to make Volvo profitable as he seeks to double sales to
800,000 cars annually over the next 10 years. The last time
Volvo showed a profit was in 2005, when it posted pretax
earnings of $377 million.  Volvo is reviewing its supplier base and has not yet
started cutting any companies, he said, adding the effort is
likely to take three to four years to complete.  Volvo’s top suppliers include seatbelt and air-bag maker
 Autoliv Inc ., seat manufacturer  Johnson Controls Inc ., and
Robert Bosch Gmbh, which provides a range of products including
electronic components. Some suppliers have had difficulties
keeping up with rising volumes this year, Ejbyfeldt said.  “We have a problem with some suppliers that can’t handle
the increased capacity, not giving us enough supplies,” he
said, adding that the shortfall in supplies mainly concerns
micro processors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  