-- Wal-Mart Stores Considering `a Variety of Options' for Massmart Ownership
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-10-28T15:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/wal-mart-stores-considering-retaining-massmart-s-listing-in-johannesburg.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s
largest retailer, is “exploring a variety of options” on the
ownership structure of  Massmart Holdings Ltd. , which it is
considering buying, it said.  The U.S. retailer, based in Bentonville, Arkansas, has
“several different models of successful international ownership
designed to maximize shareholder value,” Wal-Mart said in an e-
mailed statement. “This includes 100 percent ownership of
operations in markets such as the U.K., and 68 percent ownership
of Walmart de Mexico.”  Wal-Mart on Sept. 27 made a non-binding offer to purchase
Massmart for 32 billion rand ($4.55 billion), or 148 rand a
share. Wal-Mart may make a “partial offer” for a controlling
stake in Massmart and is also considering retaining its listing
on the Johannesburg stock exchange, the South African retailer
said earlier today in a regulatory filing.  Shares in Massmart  fell as much as 2.8 percent to 137.50
rand, the lowest in more than a month and closed 0.5 percent
down at 140.80 rand by 5 p.m. in Johannesburg, giving the
company a market value of 28.6 billion rand.  South Africa, the biggest  economy  on the continent,
represents a platform for expansion into Africa, Wal-Mart said
in the e-mailed statement. “Massmart is a compelling growth
opportunity,” according to the statement.  Grant Pattison , the chief executive officer of Massmart,
said that the process started on Sept. 27 with Wal-Mart “is on
track,” according to a separate e-mailed statement today.  Wal-Mart’s announcement that Massmart may remain listed on
Johannesburg’s  stock exchange  “is indicative that the
discussions with Wal-Mart are progressing positively,” Pattison
said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  