-- Poland to Get at Least $402 Million From Warsaw Bourse IPO
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2010-10-28T14:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/warsaw-bourse-s-ipo-attracts-outstanding-demand-treasury-minister-says.html
Poland will raise 1.2 billion zloty
($420 million) from the  Warsaw Stock Exchange ’s initial public
offering, in which Treasury Minister  Aleksander Grad  said demand
was “outstanding.”  Retail investors will pay the maximum price of 43 zloty a
share, Grad said today. The price for institutional investors
was set at the top of a range of 36 zloty to 46 zloty, TVN CNBC
said, citing a report by Reuters.  The government offered 64 percent, or 26.8 million shares,
of the country’s sole stock exchange as part of a plan to raise
25 billion zloty to help finance the budget gap. Institutions
will get 70 percent of the IPO and the final price for them will
be announced by tomorrow, according to the IPO prospectus.  The price of 46 zloty per share is “close to the company’s
fair value and probably doesn’t offer much upside potential,”
 Piotr Palenik , a Warsaw-based analyst at ING Groep NV, said by
phone. The bourse’s valuation “is somewhere between cheaper
western exchanges and hot stock markets of Asia or Latin
America,” he said.  The Warsaw exchange is valued at around 19 times its 2010
net income, based on the IPO price for institutional investors,
according to Palenik. The median ratio of 19 world exchanges is
16.9 times estimated earnings, he said. The London Stock
Exchange Group Plc trades at 11 times this year’s profit, while
Brazil’s BM&FBovespa SA, the operator of Latin America’s largest
exchange, is valued at 21 times earnings, according to data
compiled by  Bloomberg .  Emerging Europe’s First  As many as 323,000 individual investors signed up by
yesterday’s deadline to buy shares in the Warsaw exchange, the
first emerging European bourse operator to go public, Grad said.
Bookbuilding for institutional investors ended at 1 p.m. Warsaw
time today.  “Poland is seen as a very credible partner and we can
announce even the biggest transaction and investors will come
running,” Grad said during a speech at Warsaw University.  The Polish exchange has a market capitalization of $187
billion, making it the third-largest in emerging Europe after
markets in Russia and Turkey. It has expanded faster than any
other exchange in the region, more than doubling the number of
traded companies and almost tripling daily turnover in the past
decade, according to  its website .  Most IPOs  Poland, which this year sold stakes in its largest power,
copper, insurance and phone companies, has had the highest
number of IPOs annually in central Europe since at least 2004,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Fifty-nine IPOs have
raised $4.37 billion in 2010, the largest coming from state-
owned insurer  PZU SA  and energy utility  Tauron Polska Energia
SA , the data show.  More than 250,000 individual investors subscribed for
shares in PZU’s IPO while the sale of Tauron attracted orders
from 231,000 Poles, according to the Treasury Ministry’s data.  PZU  shares have jumped 22 percent from their April sale
price and Tauron has climbed 29 percent since the government
sold a stake in June. The benchmark  WIG20 Index  fell 0.1 percent
at the 4:30 p.m. close in Warsaw, trimming this year’s gain to
10 percent.  Poland next year plans to sell to the public shares in Bank
Gospodarki Zywnosciowej SA, coking coal producer Jastrzebska
Spolka Weglowa SA and a real-estate holding company, Grad said.  Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and UBS AG are the global coordinators of the exchange’s
offering. Ipopema Securities SA, KBC Groep NV, Societe Generale
SA, PKO Bank Polski SA, Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA, Alior Bank
SA, Banco Espirito Santo SA, IDM SA and Wood & Co. helped manage
the bourse’s sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
 Marta Waldoch  in Warsaw on 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  