-- Wells Fargo to Be Focus of Ohio Foreclosure Probe
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-10-28T16:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/wells-fargo-to-be-focus-of-ohio-foreclosure-investigation.html
Wells Fargo & Co.  will be a focus of
an investigation into foreclosure practices, Ohio Attorney
General  Richard Cordray  told Bloomberg Television after the
lender said it found flaws in court documents.  Wells Fargo said yesterday that it would submit
supplemental affidavits to courts in about 55,000 foreclosure
proceedings after finding some statements “did not strictly
adhere to the required procedures.”  “These people think they can play by a different set of
rules,” Cordray said in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness with  Margaret Brennan .” “It’s not just
individuals who signed flawed affidavits. It’s a business model
designed on fraud.”  Teri Schrettenbrunner, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo, said in an e-mail that none of the paperwork
problems have led to foreclosures that shouldn’t have otherwise
occurred and the problems aren’t related to the quality of loan
data.  “We have chosen to submit supplemental affidavits out of an
abundance of caution,” she said. “We intend to be responsive to
General Cordray’s inquiries and look forward to addressing his
concerns.”  Attorneys general in all 50 states started a probe into
foreclosure practices after court documents surfaced showing
employees signed papers without ensuring their accuracy.  Bank of
America Corp. , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Ally Financial Inc.
suspended some foreclosure sales or evictions, pending reviews.
Wells Fargo said in a statement yesterday that it doesn’t intend
to stop foreclosure sales.  ‘New Prong’  “These disclosures by Wells Fargo will now become the
focus for a new prong of our ongoing investigation,” Cordray
said today in a statement.  He called for banks to come up with a global solution to
the foreclosure crisis and said mortgage companies “don’t even
know what’s going on in their own shop.”  Cordray said he wasn’t calling for an across-the-board
foreclosure freeze.  “They should halt foreclosures in every case with
fraudulent evidence,” Cordray told Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Riley  in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 