-- Wells Fargo Emerges as Target, Role Model in Foreclosure Probe
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2010-10-28T20:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/wells-fargo-emerges-as-target-role-model-in-foreclosure-probe.html
Wells Fargo & Co.  has become both a
target of U.S. states investigating bank foreclosure practices
and an example of how the mess might be cleaned up, as attorneys
general from across the country begin to meet with lenders.  Ohio’s attorney general today criticized the bank’s plan to
submit supplemental affidavits to courts in about 55,000
foreclosure proceedings after it found some statements “did not
strictly adhere to the required procedures.” At the same time,
Arizona’s top state lawyer held up Wells Fargo’s Oct. 6
agreement on loan modification procedures as a model remedy for
a 50-state foreclosure probe.  “These people think they can play by a different set of
rules,” Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray  said in an
interview today on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness with
 Margaret Brennan .” “It’s not just individuals who signed
flawed affidavits. It’s a business model designed on fraud.”  Attorneys general in all 50 states started a probe into
foreclosure practices after court documents surfaced showing
employees signed papers without ensuring their accuracy.  Bank of
America Corp. , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Ally Financial Inc.
suspended some foreclosure sales or evictions, pending reviews.
Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. home lender, said in a statement
yesterday that it doesn’t intend to stop foreclosure sales.  Teri Schrettenbrunner, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo, said in an e-mail today that none of the
paperwork problems have led to foreclosures that shouldn’t have
otherwise occurred and the problems aren’t related to the
quality of loan data.  ‘Abundance of Caution’  “We have chosen to submit supplemental affidavits out of
an abundance of caution,” she said. “We intend to be
responsive to General Cordray’s inquiries and look forward to
addressing his concerns.”  Members of the task force’s executive committee have met by
phone and “have begun the process of communicating with
servicers,” Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney
General  Tom Miller , said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The
attorneys general plan to begin face-to-face meetings with
lenders this week, Colorado Attorney General  John Suthers  said.  Any resolution of the investigation should address consumer
complaints about loan modification, Arizona Attorney General
 Terry Goddard  said in an interview yesterday. Homeowners seeking
modifications have complained that they weren’t offered revised
payments, wound up with the same or higher payments, or were
foreclosed on during the process.  ‘Most Angry’  “What I’m most angry about is the simultaneous
modifications and foreclosures,” he said. “We need to look for
a stipulated judgment in all 50 states, that if someone is in
modification, they can’t be foreclosed.”  Goddard, a member of the executive committee, said he has
been pushing in meetings with the other attorneys general for
revisions in loan-modification procedures, pointing to the
agreement with Wells Fargo as a possible guide.  Wells Fargo agreed to pay $24 million to eight states,
including Arizona, and make more than $772 million in loan
modifications to resolve allegations that companies it acquired
deceptively marketed adjustable-rate mortgage loans.  The states claimed Wachovia Corp., which bought World
Savings Inc. and was then acquired by Wells Fargo’s home
mortgage unit in 2009, left consumers with massive debt by
failing to give proper warning of the effect “pick-a-payment”
adjustable-rate mortgages could have. The low payment options
often didn’t cover monthly interest, leading to defaults and
foreclosures, the states said.  No Wrongdoing  According to the agreement, Wells Fargo admitted no
wrongdoing and never originated or marketed pick-a-payment
mortgage loans.  “Once it acquired Wachovia’s  portfolio  of payment option
mortgage loans, Wells Fargo began efforts to modify certain
borrowers’ loans,” according to the agreement. The agreement
isn’t related to claims that lenders submitted faulty documents
to justify foreclosures.  The agreement requires a “single point of contact,” so
that the consumer deals only with one person at the bank. It
also requires the bank to decide within 30 days whether to offer
a loan modification. There’s also an automatic appeal when a
modification is turned down, Goddard said. The bank also has to
inform consumers immediately when it receives documents and
whether these papers are all that is required, he said.
Foreclosures aren’t permitted during the process.  “The Wells Fargo agreement is a great starting off
point,” Goddard said.  17 States  At least 17 states are conducting separate investigations
to determine whether state laws were broken. Some began
investigations months before the coordinated nationwide probe
was announced. States have asked lenders to halt foreclosures,
requested documents and sought better home-loan modification
procedures. Ohio’s Cordray sued Ally, claiming its GMAC mortgage
unit violated state consumer law.  Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  has subpoenaed Wells
Fargo, JPMorgan and eight other banks and loan servicers for
information and documents on foreclosure practices. The Texas
subpoenas followed letters sent by Abbott’s office to 30 loan
servicers on Oct. 4, requesting information and asking them to
halt foreclosures in the state pending a review of their
practices.  Cuomo Request  State Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  on Oct. 12 called for a
suspension of foreclosures in New York by mortgage companies
involved in so-called robo-signing. He also requested
information from Bank of America, JPMorgan, Ally and Wells Fargo
on how foreclosure documents are prepared, verified, attested to
and notarized, and how New York homeowners are notified,
according to a statement.  Wells Fargo has assigned 160 employees in four offices to
be part of the review, Schrettenbrunner said in a phone
interview yesterday. One of the procedural errors included a
notary who failed to complete a logbook in the manner required
by certain states, she said.  “The issues Wells Fargo has identified do not relate in any
way to the quality of the customer and loan data,”
Schrettenbrunner said today in an e-mail. “Nor does the company
believe that any of these instances led to foreclosures which
should not have otherwise occurred.”  ‘Final Step’  Wells Fargo “has not stated that it did not adhere to
Ohio’s laws,” she said. The company “has stated that it
identified instances where a final step in its affidavit process
relating to the execution of foreclosure affidavits did not
strictly adhere to the company’s required procedures,” she said.  In the third  quarter , Wells Fargo reduced reserves to buy
back soured mortgages to $1.3 billion from $1.4 billion in the
second quarter. The affidavit “issues” don’t affect the
estimated repurchase liabilities as of Sept. 30, the bank said
in the statement.  “These disclosures by Wells Fargo will now become the
focus for a new prong of our ongoing investigation,” Cordray
said in a statement. He said the courts are in a position to
sanction Wells Fargo over its foreclosure filings.  “It will not be enough for them to say they have made a
mistake,” he told Bloomberg Television. “Wells Fargo needs to
realize they have a serious problem on their hands.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Riley  in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 