-- Wheat, Corn Advance as Dollar's Drop May Spur Export Demand for U.S. Grain
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-10-28T20:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/wheat-corn-advance-as-dollar-s-drop-may-spur-export-demand-for-u-s-grain.html
Wheat futures capped the longest
rally since August and corn climbed for the fourth straight day
as the dollar’s decline boosted the appeal of grain sales from
the U.S., the world’s largest shipper.  The greenback fell as much as 1.3 percent against a basket
of major currencies. U.S. export sales of corn more than doubled
in the week ended Oct. 21 from a week earlier, and wheat sales
climbed 5.3 percent, the Department of Agriculture said today.  “The weaker dollar is the background” spurring the rally,
said  Jerry Gidel , a grain analyst at North American Risk
Management Services in Chicago. “We had solid wheat exports,
and corn exports were better than last week, although not really
impressive.”  Wheat futures for December delivery climbed 15.5 cents, or
2.2 percent, to settle at $7.1825 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. That marked the fifth straight gain, the
longest rally since early August.  The price is up 6.6 percent in October, and has jumped 33
percent this year, as drought in Russia and Eastern Europe
harmed crops.  Corn futures for December delivery rose 1.75 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $5.79 a bushel. The price has climbed 17 percent in
October, heading for the biggest monthly gain since June 2008.  Dry weather in the U.S. Great Plains may erode prospects
for the winter-wheat crop. No rain is in the forecast in the
next seven days, and soil moisture was rated “very short,”
 David Salmon , the owner of Weather Derivatives, a Belton,
Missouri-based forecaster, said in a report.  ‘Perfect Storm’  The U.S.  crop  was rated 47 percent good to excellent in the
week ended Oct. 24, down from 62 percent a year earlier,
according to the USDA.  “In wheat, it seems like the perfect storm is brewing,”
said  Jason Britt , an analyst at Central States Commodities Inc.,
a broker in Kansas City, Missouri. “You’ve got dryness in the
U.S. and poor crop ratings, and we had the Australia numbers
looking like they’re coming down.”  The Australian Bureau of Statistics said yesterday that
inventories in bulk storage dropped 24 percent to 5.1 million
metric tons at the end of September from a month earlier.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, followed by soybeans and hay, government data show. Wheat
is fourth at $10.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  