-- Whitman Governor Bid Imperiled by Latino Voter Erosion
-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 2010-10-28T15:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/whitman-california-governor-bid-imperiled-by-eroding-latino-voter-support.html
Meg Whitman  wanted to portray a new
Republican face to Latino voters. Then controversy erupted over
the undocumented maid she fired, marring her outreach in the
 California  governor race.  Whitman, 54, EBay Inc.’s former chief executive officer,
has faced $5 million in ad spending by labor allies of Democrat
 Jerry Brown , 72, in the final weeks before Nov. 2. A contest
that had been too close to call shifted to a 48 percent to 42
percent lead for Brown, the attorney general and former two-term
governor, a Rasmussen Reports poll released Oct. 23 showed.  “She tries to be tough on undocumented people, then all of
the sudden she has a work relationship with an undocumented,”
Henrik Rehbinder, editorial page editor of  La Opinion , the
largest Spanish-language U.S. newspaper, said in a telephone
interview. “It could damage her with some Latino voters.”  Whitman’s own polling showed she “took a hit,” said
spokesman  Hector Barajas , one of six Hispanics in senior staff
positions on her team. She trailed Brown by 20 points among
Latinos, according to an Oct. 22 campaign memo. Surveys by  Field
Research Corp . and the Public Policy Institute of California
showed her deficit last month was in the single digits.  Latinos account for 18 percent of likely voters, according
to the institute. This season, they may be motivated by
neighboring Arizona’s passage of an anti-immigration law, said
 Gary Jacobson , a political science professor at the University
of California, San Diego. Before a court blocked the provision,
the Tea Party-backed statute required police officers to
determine the immigration status of people they questioned.  ‘Lifelong Voting Patterns’  Latinos make up a key voting group in California, in part
because of their relative youth, said  Mark Baldassare , CEO of
the San Francisco-based Public Policy  Institute .  “Lifelong voting patterns haven’t been established yet,”
Baldassare said, “so the candidates feel there’s a chance to
get their support.”  Another important bloc, independents, represent 20 percent
of likely voters, according to the research firm. There are
about 17 million registered voters in the state, and Democrats
outnumber Republicans by 2 million.  While two-thirds of  likely Latino voters  are Democrats, a
two-thirds proportion also identifies as middle-of-the-road or
conservative, institute data show. That allows Republicans and
Whitman to counter the smaller GOP registration with values
appeals, said  Mark DiCamillo , the director of the Field polls,
who is based in San Francisco.  Spanish-Language Ads  “She has a lot of capability with that segment that other
Republicans haven’t had,” DiCamillo said. Whitman trailed Brown
by an average 9 points among Latinos in two recent Field polls.  Brown has a 10 percentage-point lead over Whitman,
according to a Field Poll released today that gave the Democrat
49 percent to the Republican’s 39 percent. A month earlier, they
were tied at 41 percent each. Brown picked up support among
Latinos, women, nonpartisans and voters in Los Angeles County,
home to more than a quarter of California’s population.  Whitman  spent  $4.5 million on Spanish-language ads through
September, opened field offices in Democratic strongholds and
visited agricultural Central Valley cities, such as Fresno, with
large Hispanic communities.  Spending Boost  Since the undocumented housekeeper story broke Sept. 29,
Whitman has increased her spending by about 40 percent. The
media budget was intended to go up in the final month, and no
ads specifically mention the maid, Barajas said. Prior to the
flap, spots on  Univision Communications Inc .’s Univision network
and  General Electric Co .’s Telemundo featured Latino business
supporters, talk about jobs and schools and praise for Latino
contributions to economy and culture.  Organized labor will continue to keep the housekeeper in
the forefront, said Mary Gutierrez, the California
communications director of the  Service Employees International
Union , who is based in Los Angeles. Spanish-language ads will
aim to define the Republican’s “value system,” she said.  “An average person would have said, ‘You’ve been in our
home, you’ve helped care for the children, how do we try to fix
the situation,’ instead of firing her,” Gutierrez said.
“Whitman’s whole mentality is, ‘I’m above the rules.’”  Whitman denied claims by Nicky Diaz Santillan, 39, who said
she was emotionally abused during nine years of employment, and
called the allegations a “political stunt” orchestrated by
Brown supporter  Gloria Allred , Diaz Santillan’s Los Angeles-
based lawyer.  Employers Accountable  Employers should be held accountable for hiring
undocumented workers, Whitman says on her campaign website. The
Republican said she fired Diaz Santillan last year after the
housekeeper admitted her illegal status. She gave a fake Social
Security number and California driver’s license to an employment
agency that referred her to Whitman, according to the campaign.  Among Hispanics, there isn’t a unified view of the
controversy, said Rehbinder, the La Opinion editor. The Los
Angeles-based newspaper received more letters critical of Diaz
Santillan than supportive, some calling her ungrateful and
willing to be manipulated for political purposes. That doesn’t
mean the letter-writers will vote for Whitman, Rehbinder said.  Appealing to Moderates  Nick Ramirez, 50, a Democrat, said he remains undecided.  “Even though what the lady running for governor did was
wrong, I’m still open,” Ramirez, a self-employed housing
contractor from Alameda, said in a telephone interview. “I just
want to see somebody do something for the people. They need to
concentrate on the people and stop slandering each other.”  Whitman needs about a third of Latinos, and more than half
of  independents , to become the state’s first female governor,
according to Baldassare. Republicans including former President
 George W. Bush  and current California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  used similar formulas to get elected, he said.  “Republicans can win statewide when they appeal to
moderates,” said Jacobson, the University of California
professor. “They have to come across as socially moderate or
liberal, even though they can be economically conservative.”  Whitman won’t get the support of Carlos Guerrero, 41, an
associate professor of Chicano studies at Los Angeles City
College and a Democrat.  “California depends on people like Nicky to move the
economy,” Guerrero said. “Once she wasn’t needed, she got left
out in the cold.”  ‘Callous’ Image  Republicans standing for president and statewide offices
have lost among California  Latinos  by an average 46 points since
1994, according to DiCamillo of the Field polls. That was the
year the GOP supported  Proposition 187 , which denied state
services to U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants.  A “callous” image stuck to the party after the measure
was approved and  Pete Wilson , a U.S. senator who campaigned on
the issue, was elected governor, said Armando Arenas, 46.  Arenas is a Republican and co-owner of the La Costa
restaurant in East Los Angeles, where Whitman shot footage used
in her Spanish ads. His parents emigrated from Durango, Mexico,
raised three children, learned English and found work in
restaurants “without training wheels,” he said.  The Proposition 187 backlash showed that “you can’t be
insensitive to the Hispanic community,” he said.  Wilson is Whitman’s campaign chairman.  “Whitman is trying to tread a fine line between not
offending conservative Republicans, who are highly in favor of
Arizona-style action, and Latinos, who are not happy with it,”
Jacobson said.  Union ads focusing on Wilson’s role may not have much sway,
according to Arenas, who believes the maid controversy has blown
over by now.  “Anytime you have negative news, initially it will cause
an emotional charge,” Arenas said. “I don’t hear people
bashing her. People are looking at who’s going to create jobs
and get the economy moving.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dan Levy  in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net . 