-- Whitehaven Shares Hit Record After Opening Finances to Potential Bidders
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-10-29T05:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/whitehaven-says-remains-in-talks-to-allow-diligence-to-potential-bidders.html
Whitehaven Coal Ltd. , the Australian
coal producer in talks over possible deals, climbed to a record
in Sydney after saying it will give potential buyers access to
financial information as part of a formal bidding process.  Whitehaven  gained 8.9 percent to A$6.96, the highest since
starting trading on June 1, 2007, at the close of trading on the
Australian stock exchange. The shares rose after  Whitehaven  said
in a statement there was “ongoing interest being shown in the
company” since it revealed preliminary talks on Aug. 5.  The company is open to takeovers as well as other
transactions such as joint ventures, Managing Director  Tony Haggarty  told reporters in Sydney. He declined to elaborate on
the number or origins of companies that have expressed an
interest in a transaction.  Whitehaven  and  Riversdale Mining Ltd.  are among Australian
coal companies that may be takeover targets,  Glyn Lawcock , an
analyst at UBS AG, said in a Sept. 8 report. Overseas companies
have targeted coal producers in Australia, the world’s biggest
exporter of the fuel, as prices are expected to gain until 2012,
according to forecasts from Deutsche Bank AG.  “Selected parties will be invited to conduct due diligence
and submit proposals to the board for its consideration,” the
Sydney-based company said today in the statement.  Banpu Pcl , Thailand’s biggest coal producer, agreed in July
to buy the rest of Centennial Coal Co. for A$2 billion. Last
year, Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. won Australian government approval
for the A$3.5 billion takeover of Felix Resources Ltd.  Whitehaven is developing the A$350 million ($342 million)
Narrabri coal mine in New South Wales. Shipments from the first
development stage of the operation started in July this year.  Whitehaven also owns an 11 percent stake in the Newcastle
Coal Infrastructure Group, a port development that commissioned
30 million tons of export shipping capacity in March this year.
Another 23 million tons of capacity are expected to become
available in mid-2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  