-- Wilbur Ross's American Home Mortgage Faces Servicing Lawsuits
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-10-28T21:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/wilbur-ross-s-american-home-sued-by-homeowner-texas-for-mortgage-practice.html
Billionaire  Wilbur Ross’s  American
Home Mortgage Servicing Inc., facing lawsuits by attorneys
general in two states, was sued by a homeowner who accused the
firm of using tactics that lead to improper foreclosures.  The lawsuit, filed Oct. 25 in federal court in Dallas,
seeks class-action status on behalf of homeowners with mortgages
serviced by American Home going back to 2006. American Home’s
“illegal, unfair and deceptive business practices victimize
borrowers” across the U.S., according to the complaint.  American Home “routinely and systematically assesses
unwarranted fees against consumers, resulting in premature
default that often gives rise to unfair and improper foreclosure
proceedings,” according to the complaint.  Banks and loan servicers are under scrutiny for their
foreclosure practices following accusations they relied on
faulty documentation to foreclose on people’s homes. Attorneys
general in all 50 states have launched a coordinated
investigation into the issue.  The complaint in Dallas, filed by Kay VanHauen of Sanger,
Texas, follows lawsuits by  Greg Abbott , the state’s attorney
general, and Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray . They
separately sued American Home, based in Coppell, Texas, for
alleged violations of consumer protection laws.  ‘Without Merit’  “While a lawsuit on occasion may identify a legitimate
servicing error, most of which are isolated and none of which to
our knowledge indicate any systematic process flaws or patterns
or unlawful behavior, we believe the majority of them are
without merit,” Philippa Brown, a spokeswoman for American
Home, said today in a phone interview.  Ross, 72, is chief executive officer of WL Ross & Co., a
company that specializes in reorganizing distressed companies.
He founded the New York-based company in 2000 after overseeing
the bankruptcy practice at Rothschild Inc.  WL Ross bought American Home from its bankrupt lender
parent in 2008, and later added operations and servicing
contracts from H&R Block Inc.,  Citigroup Inc.  and Taylor, Bean &
Whitaker Mortgage Corp. Servicers collect payments from
homeowners, negotiate loan modifications and foreclose on
properties when borrowers default.  In an Oct. 23, 2008, interview with Bloomberg Radio, Ross
said American Home was the second-largest servicer of subprime
mortgages in the U.S. and was “eager” to continue expanding.
The company has servicing operations in Irvine, California,
Jacksonville, Florida, and Pune, India, according to its
website.  ‘Unconscionably One-Sided’  In his lawsuit, the Ohio Attorney General said American
Home required borrowers to sign loan modifications, forbearance
agreements and security-retention agreements that contain
“illegal and unfair provisions and are unconscionably one-
sided” in the company’s favor. American Home also provided
“incompetent, inadequate and inefficient customer service,”
lost documents and failed to respond to requests by borrowers
for assistance, according to the complaint.  “The acts of some mortgage servicers have gone beyond the
point of being negligent -- they have become predatory financial
practices and in Ohio, they won’t be tolerated,” Cordray said
in a statement on Nov. 5, when the lawsuit was filed.  Default Increase  The Texas Attorney General said in his lawsuit that
American Home fails to properly credit homeowners for payments
made on their mortgages; falsely claims borrowers didn’t make
payments in order to justify late fees; and refuses to accept
payments allegedly because a borrower is in default, thereby
adding more late charges. The result, Abbott said, is to render
homeowners in default on their mortgages.  “The cumulative effect of the foregoing acts and practices
was to place more homes into foreclosure than there should have
been,” Abbott said in the Aug. 30 lawsuit.  American Home is among 30 banks and mortgage companies that
Abbott wrote to on Oct. 4, demanding they halt foreclosures in
the state until they ensure that foreclosures that relied on
faulty documents “will be rectified” and that future
foreclosures are done with “legally correct documentation.”  American Home has been reviewing its procedures and is
placing “tighter controls” on document signing and
notarization, according to the attorney general’s office. The
company found “a very limited number of cases” in which a
person signing a document may not have done so in the presence
of a notary, according to the attorney general.  Misapplied Payments  The lawsuit by VanHauen, the Texas homeowner, mirrors
allegations made by the attorney general. American Home, she
said, misapplied mortgage payments on two loans in September
2008 and improperly assessed fees and other charges. After
notifying American Home about the problem, the company refused
to correctly apply the payments. It treated the loan as being in
default and initiated foreclosure proceedings, according to the
complaint.  American Home also charged her for a homeowner insurance
policy she didn’t need and charged her for property taxes she
was paying to the county, according to the complaint. VanHauen
proposed that her lawsuit cover homeowners who have similar
complaints against American Home.  American Home has faced similar allegations in other
lawsuits. In an April lawsuit filed in federal court in
Baltimore, Michael and Ingrid Landi of Frederick, Maryland,
accused American Home of falsely claiming in October 2009 that
they had not made mortgage payments. American Home has asked the
court to dismiss the complaint.  San Diego Suit  In a complaint filed in May in federal court in San Diego,
American Home was accused of foreclosing on a home while it was
discussing a loan modification with the owner, Kenneth Coplin.
Coplin said in his complaint that American Home assured him it
didn’t intend to foreclose or sell the property “in an effort
to conceal” its intention to “mislead” him and “steal” the
property.  Brown, the American Home spokeswoman, said the lawsuit was
dismissed. The most recent entry on the court docket shows the
case would be dismissed if Coplin failed by Oct. 25 to file
certain documents related to serving the complaint. Coplin
couldn’t be reached for comment.  The cases are Kay VanHauen v. American Home Mortgage
Servicing Inc., 10-02146, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of Texas (Dallas); State of Texas v. American Home Mortgage
Servicing Inc., 2010-3307, District Court of El Paso County,
Texas; State of Ohio v. American Home Mortgage Servicing Inc.,
09-708888, Court of Common Pleas, Cuyahoga County, Ohio; Michael
Landi v. American Home Mortgage Servicing Inc., 10-00921, U.S.
District Court, District of Maryland (Baltimore); Kenneth Coplin
v. American Home Mortgage Servicing Inc., 3:10-cv-01096, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of California (San Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 