-- World's Biggest Cruise Ship to Leave Finnish Construction Site for Florida
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2010-10-28T08:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/world-s-biggest-cruise-ship-to-leave-finnish-construction-site-for-florida.html
Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. ’s
Allure of the Seas, the world’s biggest cruise ship, will set
sail for its home port of Florida tomorrow from Finland.  Shipbuilder STX Europe AS delivered the liner today at the
Turku shipyard, where the vessel was built, STX said in an e-
mailed statement.  Allure of the Seas , which accommodates 6,360 passengers,
will be based in Ft. Lauderdale, STX said. Oasis of the Seas,
the Allure’s sister ship, was delivered a year ago and has been
“very successful” in the leisure cruise market, STX said.  Royal Caribbean, which this week raised its 2010 profit
forecast and predicted record sales next year, ordered the
vessel in April 2007 before the global financial crisis hit.  Demand for cruises is now “steady and solid,” said Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Fain , who steered the cruise line
through the recession by slashing prices to attract bargain-
seeking travelers.  The Allure of the Seas has a Central Park with 12,000
plants, including 56 trees and a bar that moves 10 meters (32.8
feet) up and down between decks. Guests can learn to surf on a
simulator, jog on a half-mile track or relax in a 3D-equipped
movie theater.  The ship next in size to the Allure and the Oasis can sleep
3,600 guests. Construction, which took 2 1/2 years, gave work to
about 900 subcontractor companies in addition to STX.  The shipyard that built the vessel this week won its next
order from  Viking Line Abp , a Finnish cruise operator, for a
ferry on its Baltic Sea route. The vessel may use liquefied
natural gas as fuel.  Allure of the Seas will sail on its maiden voyage to Haiti
from Ft. Lauderdale on Dec. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kati Pohjanpalo  in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  