-- Yahoo!, AT&T, Novartis, Apple: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-10-28T11:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/yahoo-at-t-novartis-eu-music-sales-apple-ipad-intellectual-property.html
Yahoo! Inc. ,  AT&T Inc.  and the U.S.
Energy Department are among the sellers offering patents at the
Nov. 11 ICAP Ocean Tomo patent auction.  The auction, which will be held in California’s Napa
Valley, presently has 149 lots for sale. The catalog, in a style
akin to  EBay Inc. ’s Internet auction site, lists a “purchase-
it-now” price in addition to an estimate of the anticipated
auction selling price.  If past Ocean Tomo auctions are any indication of the
present, most lots won’t be sold directly during the auction. A
number will change hands quietly at the event, with no bidding
taking place in the auction room.  According to the catalog, one of the most valuable lots
offered contains four U.S. and five European patents for a
method of multimedia data processing. The expected value of the
lot is $8.5 million and the catalog also offers them for a buy-
it-now price of $10 million.  Three of the patents in the lot -- 6,938,047, 7,400,764 and
7,496,676 -- are also listed as available for licensing on the
 Vox.com  website. The seller named in the catalog is Maui X-
Stream Inc.  A second potentially high-value lot is offered by the
U.K.’s  CVON Innovations Ltd.  It’s comprised of more than 300
patents and patent applications related to mobile advertising.
According to the catalog, its expected value is $7.5 million and
it’s offered for immediate sale for $15 million.  New Market Solutions LLC  is offering a portfolio of 10
issued U.S. patents and five pending applications in the
insurance and financial services area. They are available for an
immediate-purchase price of $13.390 million.  Some patents sold at Ocean Tomo actions have been asserted
against technology companies by their purchasers. In December
2008  Netflix Inc.  and 12 other defendants were sued for
infringing patent 5,890,152, which was sold for $1.07 million at
an April 2008 auction. The patent was for a “personal feedback
browser for obtaining media files,” according to the patent.  Other defendants in that case included  Amazon.com Inc.  and
Yahoo. The case was dismissed in May 2009, according to
Bloomberg data.  That case was Quito Enterprises LLC v. Netflix Inc., 1:08-
cv-23543-AJ, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  The auction next month will be held at the  Carneros Inn  in
Napa, California, and a preview wine-tasting and panel
discussion will be at the  Auberge du Soleil  in Rutherford,
California.  Although EBay Inc. made a name for itself selling PEZ candy
dispensers and Beanie Baby stuffed animals, the San Jose,
California-based company lists few patents offered for sale on
its auction website.  An Israeli patent owner is using EBay to sell a patent for
a reusable dental floss holder  for $21 million . A Floridian is
asking  $5 million  for a patent for a utility pole. A second
Florida resident is offering a patent for a technology to double
battery life for $5 million.  For buyers interested in more economical items, EBay also
has listed a number of  old patent documents  ranging in price
from $5.40 to $112.50.  Novartis Sues Apotex for Infringing Alzheimer Drug Patents  Novartis AG , a Swiss pharmaceutical company, sued Canada’s
Apotex Inc. for patent infringement in U.S. federal court in
Delaware.  Apotex, a maker of generic drugs, is accused of infringing
two patents for a drug used to treat Alzheimer’s disease. In
dispute are patents 4,948,807, issued in August 1990; and
5,602,176, issued in 1997.  In the complaint filed Oct. 26 in Wilmington, Novartis said
the two patents don’t expire, respectively, until August 2012
and February 2014, and that until the patents’ expiration, it’s
entitled to block others from infringement.  The suit was triggered by Apotex’s application to the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration to make and sell a generic form of
the drug covered by the two patents.  Novartis asked the court to order Apotex not to proceed
with its efforts to create generic forms of the drug before the
patents’ expiration, and seeks money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  The Swiss pharmaceutical company is represented by  Michael
P. Kelly  and  Daniel M. Silver  of Wilmington’s  McCarter & English
LLP , and  Nicholas N. Kallas ,  Diego Scambia ,  Gregory B. Sephton 
and  Filko Prugo  of New York’s  Fitzpatrick, Cella, Harper &
Scinto .  The case is Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp. v. Apotex
Cor0pt, 1:10-cv-00916-UNA, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  EU Commission Suggests Region-Wide Music Sales Rules in 2011  The European Commission  said  it will propose measures next
year to lift restrictions on sales of online music. The move may
allow traders in one of the 27 European Union states to sell to
customers anywhere in the bloc.  The plans are part of possible changes to the EU’s rules
designed to increase trade in the region, the commission said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The commission said it will also try to ease access to
finance for small businesses by simplifying accounting rules and
helping them tender for government contracts. Possible changes
to tax rules would set an EU-wide standard for companies’
taxable income and could also save costs for business.  The EU executive said it’s seeking views on the internal
market measures over the next four months and plans to publish
draft laws next year.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Apple Threatened by Chinese IPad Trademark Infringement Claims  Apple Inc. ’s negotiations with Proview Technology Co. Ltd.
over the use of the iPad name in China has broken down and the
Cupertino, California-based company may face a trademark
infringement action, Agence France-Presse  reported .  Proview is seeking $800 million for the iPad trademark, and
a company official has called “illegal” and “arrogant”
Apple’s decision to sell the iPad in China without obtaining a
license to the mark, according to AFP.  In May, Apple brought Proview and its parent,  Proview
International Holdings Ltd. , to court demanding an order barring
the sale or transfer of the iPad mark to a 3rd party, AFP
reported.  Apple already has four retail outlets in China and plans to
open 25 more by the end of 2011, according to the news service.  Solo Sues Oregon Cup Maker, Claims Trademark Infringed  Solo Cup Co., a closely held maker of disposable paper
cups, plates and containers, sued an Oregon competitor that
makes potato-based food-service items for trademark
infringement.  The suit relates to  Biodegradable Food Service LLC ’s
production and sale of disposable cup lids that are “virtually
or identically the same size, share and look” of the Traveler
lid sold by Highland Park, Illinois-based Solo.  These cups are so confusingly similar to the Solo products
that they are causing the Illinois company loss of actual and/or
potential sales, according to the complaint filed Oct. 26 in
federal court in Chicago.  Solo also objects to the display and marketing of the
allegedly infringing item on a website operated by Bend, Oregon-
based Biodegradable Food Service.  The cup company asked the court to bar further infringement
of its trademark, and to order the recall of all “confusingly
similar” products made by the Oregon company.  Additionally, Solo seeks an accounting and award of the
Oregon company’s profits attributable to the alleged
infringement, money damages, and asked that they be tripled to
punish Biodegradable Food Service for its actions. Solo also
requested awards of litigation costs and attorney fees.  The Illinois paper-products company is represented by three
in-house lawyers, Douglas M. Eveleigh, Robert F. Goodman and
Marie K. Wade.  The case is Solo Cup Corp v. Biodegradable Food Service
LLC, 1:10-cv-06980, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  For more trademark news, click here.  IP Moves  MoFo Hires Patent Litigator Patricia Martone From Ropes & Gray  Morrison & Foerster LLP  hired  Patricia A. Martone  for its
IP group, the San Francisco-based firm said in a statement.  Martone, who joins from Boston’s  Ropes & Gray LLP , is a
patent litigator. She previously practiced at New York’s Fish &
Neave, where she became the first female partner at a major IP
specialty firm in the U.S. in 1983. Fish & Neave became part of
Ropes & Gray in 2005.  Among the clients she has represented as a litigator are
Avid Technology Inc., British Telecommunications Plc, Sanyo
Electric Co., ASIN AW Co., Ricoh Americas Corp. and Realtime
Data LLC, according to Bloomberg data. She was a member of the
Fish & Neave team that successfully represented  Polaroid Corp. 
in a long-standing patent battle with  Eastman Kodak Co.  in the
1980s.  She has represented clients whose technologies have
included electronics, semiconductors and telecommunications.  Martone has an undergraduate degree in chemistry and a law
degree from New York University. She also has a master’s degree
in physical chemistry from  Johns Hopkins University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 