-- Yield Advantage Over Treasuries Dwindles on QE Speculation: Canada Credit
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-28T04:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/yield-advantage-over-treasuries-dwindles-on-qe-speculation-canada-credit.html
Canada is losing its yield  advantage 
over the U.S. on speculation government bond markets may have
gone too far in anticipating the scale of stimulus from the
Federal Reserve next week.  Canadian 10-year bonds yielded 18 basis points more than
their U.S. counterparts yesterday, near the  narrowest gap  in
almost three months and down from as much as 37 basis points on
Oct. 7. Longer-term bond prices are falling faster in the U.S.
than in Canada, pushing yields up more quickly.  That difference may narrow further as prices for Canadian
bonds rise on speculation a scaled-down program of so-called
quantitative easing won’t be as inflationary as a larger
program. The U.S. central bank may limit bond purchases to a few
hundred billion dollars at next week’s meeting, the Wall Street
Journal reported yesterday, without saying where it got the
information. In general, bond prices fall in times of higher
inflation.  “QE-Light is what many are expecting now,”  John Clinkard ,
chief economist for Canada at Deutsche Bank AG’s Deutsche Bank
Securities, said by phone from Toronto. “The Fed is viewed as
not being quite as aggressive regarding QE as a lot of people
were expecting. If they eased off, I think this would have a
somewhat positive impact on Canada.”  The gap in 10-year yields reached an 18-month high in
Canada’s favor on Oct. 7. Since then, 10-year Treasury  yields 
have climbed 34 basis points, compared with 15 basis points on
the Canadian side. The  gap  in 30-year yields was 55 basis points
in favor of the U.S. yesterday, the most since May.  Goldman Sachs  Elsewhere in credit markets,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  sold
C$500 million ($487 million) in so-called Maple Bonds, debt sold
by foreign companies in Canadian dollars. The 4.1 percent notes
mature in November 2015, and were priced at 206.4 basis points
over the Canadian government 3 percent bond due December 2015.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the debt of
Canada’s corporations instead of its federal government was
unchanged at 142 basis points, or 1.42 percentage points, down
from 145 at the end of September, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. The so-called spread in U.S. corporate bonds
tightened 8 basis points this month to 178. Global corporate
bonds narrowed 8 basis points to 165 as of Oct. 26.  Canadian corporate yields ended yesterday at 3.67 percent,
from 3.63 the day before and 3.66 at the end of September,
according to the Merrill index, which holds more than 700 bonds
with a par value of C$278 billion. The index has declined 0.1
percent this month, after five months of gains.  Gateway Casinos  U.S. corporate bonds have lost 0.4 percent in October,
while global corporate had fallen 0.1 percent as of Oct. 26, the
Merrill Lynch data show.  Standard & Poor’s assigned a BB- rating to Gateway Casinos
& Entertainment Ltd., three notches below investment grade, with
a stable outlook, the agency said yesterday in a statement. S&P
gave the firm’s proposed C$340 million sale of secured term
loans a BB+ rating, the highest non-investment grade, and its
sale of C$170 million in second-lien notes a BB- rating.  “The stable outlook on Gateway stems from our expectation
that the company will use its robust discretionary cash flow to
reduce debt in the next several years,” Toronto-based S&P
analyst  Donald Marleau  said in the statement.  Canadian corporations have issued C$60 billion in debt this
year, more than the C$57.2 billion in all of 2009, and the most
since 2007, according to Bloomberg data.  Provincial Bonds  In provincial bond markets, relative yields were unchanged
yesterday at 52 basis points, from 53 basis points at the end of
last week and 58 on Sept. 30. Yields were 3 percent, little
changed from the end of last month. The index has returned 0.07
percent this month, compared with a 0.39 percent loss for
Canada’s federal bonds.  The benchmark Canadian 10-year bond’s yield climbed 8 basis
points today as the 3.5 percent security due in June 2020
slumped 65 cents to C$105.11.  The benchmark two-year note’s yield touched 1.46 percent,
the highest level in a month. The 1.5 percent bond maturing in
December 2012 fell 6 cents to C$100.11. The 30-year’s yield rose
4 basis points to 3.50 percent.  Canada’s  gross domestic product  increased 0.3 percent in
August, after a 0.1 percent drop in July, according to the
median of 24 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. Statistics
Canada releases the data tomorrow at 8:30 a.m. in Ottawa.  Bond investors’ expectations for Canadian inflation during
the next decade touched 2.16 percent Oct. 25 -- the highest
since May -- even as the Bank of Canada’s preferred core measure
slowed to a rate of 1.5 percent in September.  Quantitative Easing  Minutes of the last U.S. central bank meeting, released on
Oct. 12, increased uncertainty about how much so-called
quantitative easing Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  might initiate
when policy makers meet Nov. 2-3, analysts say.  “Recent moves on U.S. yields have to do with markets
paring down expectations for QE2,”  Pascal Gauthier , an
economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank in Toronto, said via e-mail.
“Markets had already priced in large Fed purchases.”  Economic data yesterday showing a bigger-than-forecast
increase last month in U.S. new home sales and a report Oct. 26
showing higher-than projected consumer confidence this month may
give the Fed reason to scale back on potential quantitative
easing.  A further narrowing of the Canada-U.S. 10-year spread is
“certainly a possibility,” Gauthier said. “The U.S. market
seems to be pricing in $500 billion in QE, whereas we see it
coming closer to $400 billion, with an open-ended statement by
the Fed to do more as needed.”  QE Estimates  Estimates for the size of the program had ranged from $1
trillion at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch Global Research to $2
trillion at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., with economists at both
firms agreeing the Fed will likely begin with a $500 billion
plan after its meeting next week.  Yields are also rising faster in the U.S. than in Canada
because investments are flowing more quickly into U.S. stocks in
anticipation of another round of stimulus, according to  Paul Ferley , deputy chief economist at Royal Bank of Canada.  “With the improvement in terms of equity markets, you’re
also seeing investors pulling out of fixed income and moving
into equities,” Ferley said by phone from Toronto. “You’re
seeing more of those flows occurring in the U.S. versus Canada.
That’s resulting in more of a rise in U.S. yields.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has gained 11 percent since
Aug. 27, when Bernanke signaled in a speech in Jackson Hole,
Wyoming, that the Fed may add more stimulus to the economy
through quantitative easing. The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite
Index, Canada’s primary stock gauge, rose 5.8 percent during
that period.  ‘Considerable’ Stimulus  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  reiterated yesterday
the country’s economy has “considerable” stimulus from his 1
percent benchmark interest rate and further moves to tighten
policy would be “carefully considered.”  The central bank last week lowered its  economic growth 
forecast for the next five quarters and kept its key lending
rate  unchanged  after three prior increases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  