-- Hynix Profit Beats Estimates on Mobile Chip Demand
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2010-10-28T06:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-28/hynix-semiconductor-third-quarter-profit-quadruples-exceeding-estimates.html
Hynix Semiconductor Inc. , the
world’s second-largest maker of computer-memory chips, reported
third-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates after sales
of chips used in mobile devices increased.  Net income  surged fourfold to a quarterly record of 1.06
trillion won ($940 million) from 246.3 billion won a year
earlier, Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix  said  today. Analysts
predicted 1 trillion won, based on the average of five estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand for memory chips that go into smartphones and tablet
computers helped boost earnings, offsetting lower prices as
personal-computer sales slowed, the company said. Hynix’s profit
may ease in the fourth quarter because of sliding chip prices,
analysts including  David Choi  at KTB Securities Co. said.  “The most important factor for earnings is how much the
average selling prices drop,” Choi said by telephone from
Seoul. “The fourth-quarter earnings will likely be lower than
the consensus.”  The chipmaker may post net income of 690 billion won in the
three months ending December, according to the average of four
analyst estimates. That would be 5.8 percent higher than the 652
billion won reported a year earlier.  Hynix  fell 0.2 percent to 22,850 won at the close of
trading on the Korea Exchange, after gaining as much as 2.4
percent. The benchmark Kospi index slipped 0.1 percent.  Lower Prices  “As uncertainties of global economies are still lingering,
overall PC demand continues to be below traditional seasonal
demand,” Chief Financial Officer  Kim Min Chul  said on a
conference call. “Continuing strong demand from smartphones and
tablet PCs allowed us to maintain relatively stable pricing for
mobile DRAMs.”  Average selling prices of Hynix’s dynamic random access
memory, or DRAM, chips, will probably fall 20 percent to 25
percent in the fourth quarter from the prior three-month period,
Kim said.  Sales of chips used in devices other than personal
computers accounted for about 60 percent of total sales, rising
from about 55 percent in the second quarter, he said.  Operating profit , or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, surged almost fivefold to 1.01 trillion
won in the quarter. Sales rose 53 percent to 3.25 trillion won.
Analysts predicted profit of 946 billion won and revenue of 3.2
trillion won, according to the average of nine estimates.  DRAM, NAND  DRAM chips are used to store data temporarily to help
devices run multiple programs at the same time. Hynix also makes
NAND flash memory chips, which save songs and pictures in
consumer gadgets such as smartphones and digital cameras.  The price of the  benchmark 1-gigabit DRAM chip  fell 13
percent in September, according to Taipei-based Dramexchange
Technology Inc., operator of Asia’s largest spot market for
semiconductors.  Texas Instruments Inc., the second-largest U.S. chipmaker,
on Oct. 26 forecast fourth-quarter sales that missed some
analyst estimates, citing slowing consumer-electronics spending.  ISuppli Corp., an El Segundo, California-based researcher,
 said Sept. 30  that global semiconductor sales this year will
rise less than it previously forecast because of slowing
consumer demand for some electronic devices, including PCs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  