-- Brazil's Bovespa Falls on Weakening U.S. Dollar: Latin Stocks
-- Paulo Winterstein
-- 2007-03-27T21:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-27/brazil-s-bovespa-falls-on-weakening-u-s-dollar-latin-stocks.html

          
          
             Brazilian stocks fell for the first
day in three as the dollar slid, threatening profits for exporters.  
 The  Bovespa index  of the most-traded stocks on the  Sao Paulo 
exchange fell 438.03, or 1 percent, to 45,206.53, led by iron-ore
miner Cia. Vale do Rio Doce.  Mexico 's  Bolsa index  was little
changed, falling 34.64 to 28,124.33.  
 ``If the dollar continues to fall out there, it will also fall
here, strengthening the real,'' said Francisco Meirelles de Andrade, who helps manage 170 million reais in stocks at Nest
Investimentos in Sao Paulo. ``This is a problem for exporters, and
particularly for commodity exporters.''  
 The dollar fell against the euro and yen as U.S.  consumer
confidence  dropped this month, increasing the likelihood of a cut
in borrowing costs by the  Federal Reserve . The U.S. currency also
weakened as a private survey showed the price of homes in 20 U.S.
metropolitan areas fell in January for the first time in at least
six years and a Federal Reserve report showed a decline in
manufacturing this month.  
 The real last week was at its strongest level against the U.S.
currency in more than 5 years, at 2.0535 reais to the dollar on
March 21.  
 Shares of Vale, the world's biggest iron-ore producer, fell 72
centavos, or 1.1 percent, to 63.99 reais. A Brazilian federal court
upheld an antitrust regulator's ruling to end Vale's rights to
exports from the Casa da Pedra iron ore mine,  Valor Economico 
reported. Vale will either have to give up rights to the mine,
which is owned by Cia. Siderurgica Nacional, or sell a nearby mine,
Valor said.  
 CSN,  Brazil 's third-largest steelmaker, fell 59 centavos, or
0.7 percent, to 87.51 reais.  
 The decline Mexico was led by cement producer Cemex SAB, which
fell 94 centavos, or 2.5 percent, to 36.82 pesos on concern that
the slump in the U.S. housing market signals reduced demand for
Mexican exports.  
 ``Geo-political tensions, sub-prime mortgages and consumer
confidence have made people who recently reinvested in the market
nervous,'' Victor Rios, a trader at SEI Compass Investments in
Mexico City, said in a telephone interview. ``The market's closely
watching the economic data, and it may overreact.''  
 Shares of companies involved in the U.S. construction industry
fell on signs of weakness in the real estate market. Cemex has
dropped 3.8 percent in three days. The U.S. buys about 80 percent
of Mexico's exports.  
 Merval Drops  
 Argentina 's Merval index fell 16.74, or 0.8 percent, to
2060.28, led by Banco Macro SA, the fourth-largest non-state bank.
Banco Macro fell 30 centavos, or 2.8 percent, to 10.55 pesos.  
 ``The market is just very mindful of where the  U.S. economy  is
going,'' Rafael Ber, an economist at Argentine Research in  Buenos
Aires , said in a phone interview.  
 In other Latin American markets, the main indexes in  Chile  and
Venezuela fell, while indexes in Colombia and  Peru  rose. The Morgan
Stanley Capital International index of Latin American stocks fell
0.9 percent to 3100.66.  
 Brazil  
 Cia. Energetica de Sao Paulo  (CESP6 BS), Brazil's third-
largest power generator, rose 25 centavos, or 0.9 percent, to 27.50
reais. UBS strategist Pedro Batista reiterated a ``buy 2'' rating
on the stock and raised the price target to 36 reais a share from
30 reais. The increase for state-controlled Cesp is based on
Brazil's macroeconomic outlook and doesn't take into account the
likelihood of privatization, which Cesp executives said could
happen within 120 days with government approval, Batista wrote in
an e-mailed report. The sale of state-controlled assets may lead to
an offer price of 45 reais a share, Batista wrote.  
 MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA (MMXM3 BS) rose 19.97 reais, or
2.7 percent, to 749.97 reais. Brazil's third-largest iron-ore
producer's plans to split operations into mining and logistics
units is likely to help each management team focus on maximizing
value, UBS Pactual analyst Edmo Chagas wrote in a report e-mailed
yesterday. The logistics unit may bring higher valuations due to
its less cyclical nature, and the mining unit would be better able
to focus on ongoing projects, Chagas wrote.  
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  (PETR4 BS), Brazil's state-controlled
oil company, fell 44 centavos, or 1 percent, to 44.16 reais. Crude
oil was little changed in  New York  after reaching a three-month
high on concern supplies may be disrupted after  Iran  seized British
forces and the  United Nations  imposed new sanctions on the country.  
 Chile  
 Colbun SA (COLBUN)   fell 1.99 pesos, or 1.9 percent, to
105.50 pesos. UBS Pactual analyst Brian Chase downgraded shares of
Chile's third-biggest generator yesterday to ``reduce,'' citing
higher-than-expected costs.  
 Mexico  
 America Movil SAB (AMXL)  ,  Latin America 's largest mobile-
phone company, fell 16 centavos, or 0.6 percent, to 25.71 pesos.
 America Movil  is one of two remaining bidders for America Network,
a cable operator based in  El Salvador , with operations in four
other Central American countries, Reforma reported yesterday.  
 Grupo Aeroportuario del Pacifico SAB  (GAPB MM), the operator
of 12 Mexican airports, fell 43 centavos, or 0.9 percent, to 46.01
pesos. Shares fell for a second day after the Mexican government
yesterday grounded Lineas Aereas Azteca over safety concerns.
Azteca made up 5.5 percent of Grupo Aeroportuario del Pacifico's
passenger traffic last year and 3.2 percent of revenue, the airport
operator said in a statement sent via PR Newswire.  
 U.S. Commercial Corp. (USCOMB1 MM), the holding company for
retail chain CompUSA Inc., fell 2 centavos, or 1.5 percent, to 1.33
pesos. The company will raise $440 million by selling additional
stock to existing shareholders. Shareholders have until April 18 to
choose to buy as many as three new shares for each share they
currently own, U.S. Commercial Corp. said in a statement to the
Mexican stock exchange today. Any unsubscribed shares can be bought
for 1.30 pesos a share by Grupo Carso SA, which like U.S.
Commercial is controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim . Shares of
Carso (GCARSOA1 MM) fell 54 centavos, or 1.4 percent, to 38.52
pesos.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
William Freebairn in Mexico City 
 wfreebairn@bloomberg.net ;
Paulo Winterstein in Sao Paulo at  at
 pwinterstein@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at   chrisnagi@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        