-- Nortel Expects Growth From WiMax With New Customers
-- Ari Levy
-- 2007-03-27T20:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-27/nortel-expects-growth-from-wimax-with-new-customers-update5-.html

          
          
             Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) ,  North
America 's biggest maker of telephone equipment, added Mobile
Satellite Ventures LP and Wind Telecom as customers for a new
high-speed wireless technology after losing sales in other units.  
 Nortel said today that Mobile Satellite is testing its WiMax
technology for a network in the U.S. and Canada. Wind Telecom is
using Nortel equipment to deliver faster wireless service in the
 Dominican Republic  by September.  
 After doubling its WiMax investment last year, Toronto-based
Nortel has gained four commercial customers and is doing trials
in North America,  Europe  and  Asia . Nortel is struggling to
rebound from losses in seven of the past eight quarters, when
rivals such as Cisco Systems Inc. won more clients for corporate
phone gear and networking equipment.  
 ``It's a big leap of faith,'' said Jeremy Duke, chief
executive officer of Synergy Research Group in Reno,  Nevada . ``If
it pays off, it will pay off big. It's such a nascent market.''  
 The second quarter ``is when a lot of the trials are going
to deliver,'' said Peter MacKinnon, Nortel's general manager of
WiMax, ahead of the announcement today at the CTIA Wireless trade
show in  Orlando ,  Florida . ``2007 is really the year we can prove
that WiMax is not this niche application.'' He declined to say
how much Nortel is spending.  
 Shares of Nortel rose 57 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $24.72 at
4 p.m. in  trading  on the  New York  Stock Exchange. They've dropped
15 percent in the past year.  
 Nortel has invested in WiMax, which allows wireless carriers
to offer faster video downloads, as its global share of corporate
phone equipment  sales  fell. Nortel had 13.3 percent of sales last
year, compared with 13.7 percent in 2004, while Cisco's share in
that period almost doubled, according to Synergy.  
 WiMax Revenue  
 Worldwide revenue for WiMax equipment vendors was $200
million to $230 million last year, according to Daryl Schoolar,
an analyst at Scottsdale, Arizona-based In-Stat. The biggest
carriers may take up to 10 years to adopt the technology, which
could curb immediate growth for Nortel, he said.  
 WiMax encompasses entire cities, compared with the smaller
areas earlier wireless standards can cover. Nortel's trial
contract with Mobile, a Reston, Virginia-based provider of
satellite communications, is to build an integrated WiMax and IP
Multimedia System network for clients in the U.S. and  Canada .  
 Nortel sold off a wireless unit to Alcatel-Lucent last year
to help fund spending on WiMax, betting companies' upgrades to
the standard will fuel sales growth.  
 In addition to Nortel's contract with Wind Telecom, it has
WiMax networks in Taiwan, Greece and Canada.  
 Sprint Shutout  
 While MacKinnon expects Nortel to announce more WiMax deals
this year, none may be as big as an investment by Sprint-Nextel
Corp., which doesn't include Nortel. Sprint, the third-largest
U.S. wireless carrier, chose Motorola Inc., Nokia Oyj and Samsung
Electronics Co. for its network, and plans to spend as much as $2
billion by the end of next year.  
 ``We haven't seen a push by any large, tier-one carriers
except Sprint,'' Schoolar said. ``This isn't a humongous market
and it's going to be a while before it happens.''  
 Motorola, the world's second largest maker of mobile phones,
said today it's participating in 25 WiMax trials worldwide. The
Schaumburg, Illinois-based company's latest agreement is with
Brazilian television operator TVA, which also is testing Nortel's
equipment.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        