-- FSA Bonus Code Gives Banks 5 Months to Redo Contracts
-- Caroline Binham
-- 2009-03-19T18:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-03-19/fsa-bonus-code-gives-banks-5-months-to-redo-contracts-update1-.html

          
          
             U.K. banks will have to throw out
employee contracts that cover bonuses by December under new rules
proposed by Britain’s financial regulator.  
 The  Financial Services Authority  yesterday opened a
consultation on its draft rules for bankers’ pay. Banks with
contracts that don’t meet the FSA’s principle of “effective risk
management” must amend deals by December, provided such changes
are legally possible. This gives banks five months to rewrite
contracts by the time final rules take effect, the FSA said in
yesterday’s  paper .  
 “The FSA wants new contracts to be in place by the next
round of bonuses,” said former FSA lawyer Harvey Knight, now a
regulatory specialist at Withers LLP. “Most banks will think it
best to cooperate rather than cause a stink, but I anticipate
that this will be more of a concern for their employees.”  
 The FSA published a draft code last month on bankers’ pay,
to apply to 45 banks and investment firms, as part of the U.K.’s
attempt to clean up banking and dampen risk in the wake of the
financial crisis. FSA Chairman Adair Turner yesterday published a
120-page blueprint of “revolutionary” improvements to
regulation.  
 If banks don’t comply with the FSA’s new rules, which are
open for consultation until May, the regulator can deem them as
having risky business models and demand that they hold extra
capital to guard against the risk. This could run into billions
of pounds.  
 Bonus Fight  
 “It’s very rare to have contracts that can change yearly,”
said Jo Dawson, an employment lawyer at Dawsons LLP in London.
“This will particularly hit the ‘superheroes’, the Goodwins of
this world, where they have perks locked in to a five or six-year
term.”  
 A political row erupted over the pension of  Fred Goodwin ,
the former chief executive officer of  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc , which is now majority-owned by the government. The
U.K. is seeking to claw back his 703,000 pound ($1 million)
annual pension after he was ousted in October.  
 Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  said in October that the FSA
would publish a code regulating bankers’ pay since bonuses
encouraged too much risk-taking.  
 “Where the contract allows the firm to amend it in a way
which enables the firm to comply with the code, we propose the
firm will need to do so as soon as possible and no later than”
Dec. 31, the FSA said in yesterday’s paper. “In all other cases,
the final deadline by which such contracts must be amended or
terminated to ensure compliance” is Nov. 6.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Binham in  London  at 
 cbinham@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story: Anthony Aarons
at   aaarons@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        