-- Nickel tycoon calls on Russians to behave abroad
-- 
-- Sun Feb 4, 2007 11:29am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/02/04/businesspro-russia-tycoon-dc-idUSL0445264720070204

 

 MOSCOW  (Reuters) - Billionaire Vladimir Potanin, who 
controls Russia's top metals miner Norisk Nickel ( GMKN.MM ), 
called on Russians to behave abroad in order to improve the 
country's business reputation. 


  Potanin, who this week parted ways with his long-term 
business partner Mikhail Prokhorov, briefly detained last month 
in a prostitution probe in France, said in an interview shown 
on Russian television the incident sped up his decision.  "This scandalous situation you mentioned sped up the 
announcement, which we made in order to close this chapter," 
Potanin said.  Asked what could be done to repair the damage, Potanin 
replied: "To behave better."  Prokhorov, ranked Russia's 10th-richest man by Forbes 
magazine with a $7.6 billion fortune, was arrested in the 
French ski resort of Courchevel by police investigating 
suspected prostitution. He was released after four days without 
charge.  On January 31 Prokhorov made a surprise announcement he 
would leave Norilsk Nickel to form a new alternative energy 
firm. The 41-year-old has been CEO of Norilsk since 2001. His 
new company will focus on energy and hydrogen fuel cells.  Norilsk has a market capitalization of $30 billion and 
produces one fifth of the world's nickel output.  Russia's super-rich and their entourages descend on 
France's upmarket Courchevel resort in early January every year 
for two weeks of drinking, parties and extravagant spending. 
Their brash behavior has raised many eyebrows.  Potanin, 46 years old and Russia's ninth-richest man, 
traditionally celebrates his birthday in Courchevel on January 
3. He is a former Soviet bureaucrat and was the country's first 
deputy prime minister in the mid-1990s.  Russia's top businessmen and politicians often complain the 
country's poor image abroad stands in the way of lucrative 
business deals such as steel group Severstal's SHMF.RTS 
failed bid to merge with European steel firm Arcelor last year.