-- U.S. family tries living without China
-- By  Cynthia Osterman
-- Sat Jun 30, 2007 10:19am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/06/30/businesspro-books-madeinchina-dc-idUSN2425061320070630

 

 SEATTLE  (Reuters) - Lamps, birthday candles, mouse traps 
and flip-flops. Such is the stuff that binds the modern 
American family to the global economy, author Sara Bongiorni 
discovers during a year of boycotting anything made in China. 

  In "A Year Without 'Made in China,"' (Wiley, $24.95) 
Bongiorni tells how she and her family found that such formerly 
simple acts as finding new shoes, buying a birthday toy and 
fixing a drawer became ordeals without the Asian giant.  Bongiorni takes pains to say she does not have a 
protectionist agenda and, despite the occasional worry about 
the loss of U.S. jobs to overseas factories, she has nothing 
against China. Her goal was simply to make Americans aware of 
how deeply tied they are to the international trading system.  "I wanted our story to be a friendly, nonjudgmental look at 
the ways ordinary people are connected to the global economy," 
she said in an interview before the book appears in July.  As a business journalist in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, 
Bongiorni wrote about international trade for a decade. "I used 
to see the Commerce Department trade statistics, the billions 
of dollars, and think it had nothing to do with me," she said.  The reality was far different.  As the year unfolded, "the boycott made me rethink the 
distance between China and me. In pushing China out of our 
lives, I got an eye-popping view of how far China had pushed 
in," she wrote.  About 15 percent of the $1.7 trillion in goods the United 
States imported in 2006 came from China, economist Joel Naroff 
writes in the foreword. Much of that is the manufactured stuff 
that fills Wal-Mart and other retailers -- the necessities and 
frivolities sought by lower- and middle-income Americans.  Lower prices have been one benefit of Beijing's rise and 
make it very hard for consumers to forswear Chinese imports.
  LEGOS, LAMPS  And hard it was.  For all of 2005, minor purchases required dogged detective 
work as Bongiorni scoured catalogues and read labels.  She repeatedly struck out trying to buy inexpensive shoes 
for her son, and even the chic local boutique that sold fancy 
European labels had gone out of business. So she shelled out 
$68 for Italian sneakers from a catalogue.  Broken appliances gathered dust because the spare parts 
came from China. And, with the Asian country having a near lock 
on the toy aisles, her 4-year-old son grew tired of taking 
Danish-made Legos to birthday parties as gifts.  The family resorted to snapping mouse traps when the 
gentler catch and release kind came from, you guessed it, 
China.  Bongiorni got a lesson in the global economy after products 
advertised as Made in USA turned out to have Chinese parts. She 
decided to keep a lamp with just this problem after speaking to 
the manufacturer and learning how China is "eating the lunch" 
of the few U.S lamp producers left.  Since the boycott's end, Bongiorni has chosen a middle 
ground. Her family seeks alternatives but accepts Chinese 
products when most practical. But one habit from the boycott 
remains: It required her to think hard about what she buys.  "Shopping became meaningful," she said.