-- Angry John Osborne Play, Shredded by Censor, Returns to Stage: John Simon
-- B y   J o h n   S i m o n
-- 2010-11-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/-lost-john-osborne-play-returns-angry-young-man-john-simon.html
Back in 1953, two young British
writers, John Osborne and Anthony Creighton, wrote the play
“Personal Enemy.”  Though neither had set foot in the U.S., their subject was
the Constants, a small-town American family, and what happens to
them when Don, their elder son, thought to have died in Korea,
turns up alive and refusing repatriation in “evil” America.  The authors later collaborated on “Epitaph for George
Dillon,” a more successful play.  This one, ironically, was preserved only in the office of
the Lord Chamberlain who, until 1968, censored plays and cut it
to ribbons.  The censor’s copy was unearthed by London’s  Fallout
Theatre , prompting the successful revival now brought to New
York’s 59E59 Theaters for its invaluable  Brits Off-Broadway 
series.  Younger son Arnie is rather feminine and close to the town
librarian, Ward Perry, a communist suspected also of
homosexuality. Daughter Caryl is married to a nice, open-minded
young man, Sam Kessler, but she herself is even more fanatically
rightist than her ultraconservative mother.  Mr. Constant works in advertising and leaves most things
up to his wife. A neighbor, Mrs. Slifer, is a chatty immigrant
from Poland, very proud of her son working for the government in
Washington, but soon to be fired.  Trouble arrives for the Constants when an FBI investigator
starts nosing around and finds copies of Walt Whitman’s “Leaves
of Grass” that have been dedicated to Don and Arnie
respectively, each inscribed “with love” from Ward Perry.
Reverend Merrick, the family’s spiritual guide, is no help as
worsening blows hit the Constants.  Admittedly, this is sheer melodrama, but it is rousingly
directed by David Aula on a simple, effective set and with a
cast doing yeoman’s work. Steven Clarke is not quite different
enough as Reverend Merrick, the Investigator and Ward Perry. But
the rest are apt and Mark Oosterveen is outstanding as
reasonable Sam, whose indignation at his in-laws’ intolerance
provokes a memorable outburst.  Credibility is sometimes strained, but our attention is
firmly held. If the writing is more journalistic than
belletristic, so be it. Until a somewhat improbable twist at the
very end, “Personal Enemy” is effective theater even if not of
the highest order. Rating: ** 1/2  ‘Lingua Franca’  Peter Nichols’s “Lingua Franca” -- on another of the
59E59 stages --is a more recent British play about the mostly
comic goings-on at a second-rate language school in Florence,
Italy, in the mid-fifties, where many naive Italians come to
learn “American.”  The instructors are not especially qualified and
understandably bored by the primitive teaching methods in use.  Steve Flowers is a young British World War II veteran,
newly arrived and in love with the city, immediately in trouble
with the headmaster, young Signor Manetti, for patronizing his
students, whom we hear but never see. Elderly Jestin Overton is
a Britisher with too much of an eye for young girl students;
Irena Brentano, a Russian Jew married to an Italian, is a wise
fiftyish woman with heavily accented English. Peggy Carmichael
is a sexually hungry Englishwoman of 30 who becomes overly
possessive of Steve.  Madge Fox, a middle-aged Australian with a thick Aussie
accent, is the comic figure on the faculty; Heidi Schumann is a
sexy young German who promptly gets involved with Signor
Manetti, married and father of two, and also Steve, to Peggy’s
jealous fury, while caring mostly for her Vespa.  Out of these elements, Nichols has created a slice of
pizza-fed life by turns cynical, raunchy and hilarious as it
revels in conflicting national characteristics. An entertaining
play, its only flaw is not having an underlying or overarching
purpose, even though it sometimes gestures in the direction of
greater significance.  The small stage shortchanges the play on local color, with
just a few awkward postcard-style projections. But the
performances, under Michael Geleta’s assured direction, are
fluent and mostly idiomatic, by actors of whom only the good
Anna Carteret (Irena) is known to us.  Too bad that Natalie Walter, playing the Munich-born Heidi,
has terrible German. But Nichols’s language and plotting are
quite savvy enough for the modest goals he has set himself.
Rating: **  At 59 E. 59th St. Information: +1-212-279-4200;
 http://www.59E59.org .  (This is  John Simon ’s final column for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. He has been our tireless New
York drama critic since June 2005, covering some 500 plays on
and off-Broadway and outside New York. The opinions expressed
have always been inimitably his own, conveyed with eloquence,
intelligence and fervor. We wish him well in his retirement.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Simon in New York at  jis1925@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 