-- Harrah's Entertainment Ends Plan to Sell Shares, Cites Market Conditions
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-11-19T22:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/aeroflex-raises-233-million-in-chipmaker-ipo-as-harrah-s-delays-offering.html
Harrah’s Entertainment Inc. , the
world’s biggest casino operator, terminated its $531 million
initial public offering, the first private equity-backed company
to pull its U.S. IPO in six months.  Harrah’s, taken private by Apollo Global Management LLC and
TPG Capital in a leveraged buyout in 2008, canceled its sale
because of “market conditions,” according to the Las Vegas-
based company’s statement today. The postponement was the first
from a private equity-backed company since Americold Realty
Trust, owned by billionaire  Ron Burkle’s  Yucaipa Cos., shelved
its offering in May, data compiled by Bloomberg and Greenwich,
Connecticut-based Renaissance Capital LLC showed.  The IPO by Harrah’s was the last of four planned by private
equity-backed companies in the biggest week for U.S. initial
sales since March 2008. Almost 40 percent of IPOs led by buyout
funds left buyers with losses this year, while the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  posted its biggest one-day slump since August
this week.  “Market conditions have been pretty volatile,” said  Wayne Wilbanks , chief investment officer at Wilbanks, Smith & Thomas
in Norfolk, Virginia, which manages about $1.6 billion. “The
market will still be picky about some of these super-leveraged”
deals, he said.  Leon Black’s  New York-based Apollo and  David Bonderman’s 
TPG took Harrah’s private for $30.7 billion, including debt and
transaction costs, in January 2008. Harrah’s intended to change
its name to Caesars Entertainment Corp., according to its filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Harrah’s Bonds  Harrah’s planned to offer 31.3 million shares for $15 to
$17 each, its filing said. The shares scheduled to be sold in
the IPO were in addition to $710.3 million of stock registered
for sale by  John Paulson’s  Paulson & Co. hedge fund. He agreed
in June to acquire almost 10 percent of Harrah’s by swapping
bonds bought at a discount.  Harrah’s $3.3 billion of 10 percent bonds due in December
2018, rated CCC by Standard & Poor’s, slid 2.25 cents to 86
cents on the dollar as of 5:04 p.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The debt has fallen from as high as 93.5
cents on Nov. 5.  The Harrah’s LBO had closed as a deepening financial crisis
spurred the worst recession since the Great Depression and froze
deal-making in the buyout industry.  Restructured Debt  The casino operator’s private equity owners had cut the
company’s debt by more than $4 billion in the past two years by
offering creditors new bonds at a discount for their old notes,
buying back other debt for less than face value and extending
maturities on $5.5 billion in loans.  Apollo’s  holdings  include Parsippany, New Jersey-based
 Realogy Corp. , while TPG participated in some of the biggest
LBOs of the buyout boom that preceded the credit crunch. They
included the record takeover of TXU Corp. in 2007, a deal valued
at $43.2 billion, including assumed debt.  Among other private-equity backed IPOs this week,  Aeroflex
Holding Corp. , the maker of semiconductors owned by Golden Gate
Capital, Veritas Capital, and a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. buyout
fund, closed unchanged today in its first day of New York Stock
Exchange trading.  Aeroflex sold 17.25 million shares at $13.50 each
yesterday, the low end of its price range. Goldman Sachs of New
York and Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group AG led the IPO.  Booz Allen, LPL  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. and  LPL Investment
Holdings Inc. , both backed by private equity firms, had first-
day advances of at least 7 percent this week after their IPOs,
while  General Motors Co.  sold $20.1 billion of common and
preferred stock.  LPL of Boston and McLean, Virginia-based Booz Allen rose
more on their first day of trading than the average private-
equity backed IPO. U.S. companies sold by buyout firms have
gained an average of 1.2 percent in their stock-market debuts,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Companies without private-
equity ownership climbed 9.4 percent on average, the data show.  Separately,  Lizhan Environmental Corp. , a manufacturer of
synthetic leather from recycled leather waste, priced 2.5
million shares at $4 each today. The Tongxiang, China-based
company had offered 1.82 million shares at $5 to $6 each, an SEC
filing showed. The shares rose 0.3 percent in trading today.  The sales were among 10 initial offerings scheduled this
week. The largest came from  GM , which sold $15.8 billion of
common stock, almost 50 percent more than the Detroit-based
company initially sought, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
automaker also sold $4.35 billion of preferred shares.  The IPO was the second-largest in U.S. history after San
Francisco-based  Visa Inc.’s  $19.7 billion offering in March
2008, data show. GM’s shares, which were sold at $33 apiece,
rose 3.6 percent to $34.19 in the company’s stock-market debut
yesterday and advanced 0.2 percent to $34.26 today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 