-- Maersk Seeking to Raise 500 Million Euros With Sale of Seven-Year Bonds
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   C a r o l i n e   H y d e
-- 2010-11-19T13:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/maersk-seeking-to-raise-500-million-euros-with-seven-year-bonds.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S , the world’s
biggest container shipping line, is raising 500 million euros
($685 million) from the sale of seven-year bonds.  The notes will be priced to yield 175 basis points, or 1.75
percentage points, more than the benchmark swap rate, according
to two people with knowledge of the sale, who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  Denmark’s biggest company sold bonds for the first time
last year and held the biggest share sale in its 106-year
history. The company lifted its 2010 profit forecast last week
for the third time in four months as freight rates and trade
volumes recover.  “We have a strong balance sheet, but we feel that we
should issue bonds regularly to keep in good contact with the
capital markets,” said  Jan Bjorn Kjaervik , Maersk’s head of
finance, who said today’s deal went “very well.” “Going
forward, we will probably sell bonds roughly once per year.”  Copenhagen-based Maersk issued debt in Norwegian kroner and
euros in 2009.  Maersk said Nov. 12 that it was in meetings with bond
investors as it seeks to diversify its financing. Since then,
the yield on its notes due 2014 has increased to 3.46 percent
from 3.18 percent, according to Bloomberg composite prices.  “We should have a nice maturity curve to offer buyers, so
it would make sense if we could offer three-, five- and seven-
year bonds in euros,” Kjaervik said. Maersk issued five-year
notes last year.  Barclays Capital, BNP Paribas SA, Danske Bank A/S, HSBC
Holdings Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are managing
the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christian Wienberg  in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Caroline Hyde  in London 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ; 