-- Allied Irish Says Reliance on Central Bank Funding Since June Has Tripled
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-19T18:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/allied-irish-customer-deposits-declined-by-17-this-year-amid-debt-crisis.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc , Ireland’s
second-biggest bank, has tripled its reliance on funding from
central banks since the end of June as companies and customers
pulled money amid the country’s debt crisis.  The bank’s dependence on “monetary authorities” rose to
27 billion euros ($37 billion) from a “high single-digit”
billion-euro amount on June 30,  Alan Kelly , general manager of
group corporate services at Allied Irish, said in a telephone
interview today. Funding conditions were “increasingly
challenging,” the Dublin-based lender said in a statement.  Irish lenders have become more reliant on European Central
Bank funding after being frozen out of wholesale markets. The
amount of ECB loans to the country’s banks rose 7.3 percent to
130 billion euros in October from the previous month, Ireland’s
Central Bank said on Nov. 1. The data include both international
and domestic banks operating in Ireland.  “We hope the ongoing discussions between the government
and International Monetary Fund and European Union will help
bring clarity and finality to Ireland’s banking situation,”
said  Oliver Gilvarry , head of research at Dublin-based Dolmen
Securities, by telephone.  Deposits dropped by about 13 billion euros since the start
of the year, Allied Irish said in the statement. That equates to
about a 17 percent decline, Kelly said. Allied Irish said it
will increase the amount it’s seeking to raise in a share sale
by the end of the year to 6.6 billion euros from 5.4 billion
euros.  ‘Exceptionally Challenging’  Allied Irish  traded 4.6 percent higher at 43.5 euro cents
at the close of Dublin trading for a market value of 470 million
euros.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said yesterday he would
welcome the creation of “substantial contingency capital
funding” for Irish banks, as, EU, IMF and ECB officials started
talks in Dublin about a possible bailout of the debt-laden
country.  Allied Irish said its loan-to-deposit ratio, excluding the
Polish unit it agreed to sell in September, rose to 159 percent
at Sept. 30 from 151 percent at the end of June.  While the bank was operating “in an exceptionally
challenging funding environment,” its liquidity should be
“positively impacted” over the coming months by the conclusion
of the 1.5 billion euro sale of its 22.4 percent stake in U.S.
lender M&T Bank Corp., the bank said. It also expects to receive
3.1 billion euros in the first half of next year from the sale
of Bank Zachodni in Poland, agreed on Sept. 10.  Government-Backed Bonds  The bank has also received 5 billion euros in government-
backed bonds as payment for loans the lender has transferred so
far this year to the National Asset Management Agency, the
country’s so-called Bad Bank set up to take over lenders’
riskiest commercial real-estate loans.  By comparison,  Bank of Ireland Plc , the country’s largest
lender, said on Nov. 12 it has 20 billion euros of net
borrowings from “monetary authorities,” compared with 8
billion euros at the end of June.  Irish Life & Permanent Plc, the only domestic lender to
avoid a bailout so far, said on Nov. 17 its banking division’s
borrowings from the ECB rose to 11.7 billion euros at the end of
September, up from 8.1 billion euros at the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  