-- Tame Impala, Alagna’s Don Carlo, Libeskind’s Fire: N.Y. Weekend
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2010-11-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/tame-impala-at-bowery-libeskind-s-light-don-carlo-alert-n-y-weekend.html
Feel the hazy, psychedelic rock of
Tame Impala wash over you at the Bowery Ballroom on Friday
night.  The trio from Australia creates a swirling cloud of
sound a la the Doors or the Stone Roses.  Lead singer Kevin Parker’s voice sounds eerily similar to
 John Lennon ’s, so Tame Impala could be accused of lame sixties
revivalism. But their crunching guitar licks sound fresh and
kaleidoscopic meanderings make every tune a sonic adventure.  Stardeath & White Dwarfs and Kuroma open.  At 6 Delancey St. Information:
 http://www.boweryballroom.com/   Hit white-on-white hideaway Kenmare for a post-gig
cocktail.  Scenesters Paul Sevigny and Nur Khan of Beatrice Inn and
Rose Bar fame have created a new subterranean hot spot for
downtown waifs, waiter/actors and other nocturnal beauties.  Mick Jagger  has wet his whistle here, so look your best.
Only gets thumping after-hours.  At 98 Kenmare Street. Information: +1-212-274-9898.  Saturday  To get into the spirit of the season, take in “A Hanukkah
Project:  Daniel Libeskind ’s Line of Fire.”  The son of Holocaust survivors, the architect has installed
40 lamps from the Jewish Museum’s collection to evoke the
holiday ritual of lighting the dark.  There’s an 18th-century work made from the armor of a
Hessian soldier who fought in the American Revolution, and a
more recent creation by architect  Richard Meier  memorializing
Jewish persecution.  Also on display: “Seven Artists Inspired by Hanukkah,”
including Alice Aycock’s motorized dreidel.  The Jewish Museum is at 1109 5th Ave. at 92nd St.
Information: +1-212-423-3200;  http://www.thejewishmuseum.org/   Then stroll over to Island for a glass of wine and some
plum-glazed roast chicken with mashed potatoes. Or just the
butterscotch-rich ice cream sandwich.  At 1305 Madison, between 92nd and 93rd Streets.
Information: +1-212-996-1200.  Saturday Evening  When she was 15,  Anne-Sophie Mutter  made her first
recording of the Mozart violin concertos with Herbert von
Karajan.  Now 47, and artist-in-residence with the New York
Philharmonic, she is playing three of the elegant pieces at
Avery Fisher Hall.  She’ll also showcase a possibly less tuneful work written
for her by Wolfgang Rihm. Michael Francis makes his conducting
debut with the Phil.  At Lincoln Center, Broadway and 66th St. Information: +1-
212-875-5656;  http://nyphil.org/   Sunday  Head to the Museum of Art and Design for a look at
provocative contemporary work centered on Africa.  Catch established players, including Kehinde Wiley, Yinka
Shonibare and Fred Wilson, as well as baskets woven by Hutu and
Tutsi women in Rwanda.  There’s a fashion installation by Black Coffee,
Mapplethorpe’s 1984 shot of a body-painted Grace Jones and a
champagne flute made out of oil flasks titled “Tchin-Tchin,
BP!”  “The Global Africa Project” runs through May 15.  At 2 Columbus Circle. Information: +1-212-299-7777;
 http://www.madmuseum.org/   Sunday Afternoon  Long ago, before everyone was connected 24/7, you relied on
an operator to tell you who called when you were out. The
heroine of “Bells Are Ringing” strikes up amusing
relationships with her unseen customers and falls in love with
one.  The 1956 musical was composed by jazzy songsmith Jule Styne
and written by Betty Comden and Adolph Green. The great score
includes “Just in Time” and “The Party’s Over.”  This Encores! series revival stars lovely Kelli O’Hara --
most recently Ensign Nellie Forbush in “South Pacific” -- in
the role created by Judy Holliday.  At 131 W. 55th St. Information: +1-212-581-1212;
 http://www.nycitycenter.org   Later, cross the street for the cheery circus ambience at
 Circo , kid sister of Le Cirque, for pizza, a Manhattan and a
wide-ranging Italian wine list.  At 120 W. 55th St. Information: +1-212-265-3636.  Looking Ahead  Tickets are going fast for Verdi’s “Don Carlo,” which
opens at the Metropolitan Opera on Monday with star tenor
 Roberto Alagna  as the tormented hero who loses his fiancée to
his father in the first scene.  The production, by  Nicholas Hytner , comes from Covent
Garden and also features Ferruccio Furlanetto as King Philip II
of Spain and a lot of unhappy people who are burned at the stake
as heretics.  Yannick Nezet-Seguin , the Philadelphia Orchestra’s next
Music Director, conducts.  The curtain goes up at 7 p.m. Lincoln Center, Broadway at
66th St. Information: +1-212-362-2000;  http://www.metopera.org   (With assistance by  Jeremy Gerard  and  Lili Rosboch .  Zinta Lundborg  is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 