-- Manulife Seeks to Boost Profit With U.S., Asia Growth
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2010-11-19T21:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/manulife-financial-seeks-to-boost-net-income-to-c-4-billion-in-2015.html
Manulife Financial Corp. , the worst-
performing financial stock in Canada this year, is aiming to
increase profit to C$4 billion ($3.91 billion) by 2015 as it
boosts sales in Asia and the U.S.  Profit will be driven by the Boston-based John Hancock
Financial unit and an expansion of equity and interest-rate
hedging programs, the Toronto-based insurer said today at an
investor  conference . Manulife expects return on equity of 13
percent by 2015, the firm said in a statement. At the end of the
third quarter, it was negative 15.1 percent.  Canada’s largest insurer has posted  losses  in five of the
last eight quarters as it boosted reserves to protect against
falling interest rates. The firm cut its quarterly  dividend  in
half last year.  “We’re dealing effectively with our issues and are putting
them behind us,” Chief Executive Officer  Donald Guloien  said in
a telephone interview today. “We’re preparing for what will
hopefully be a great trajectory of growth and prosperity over
the next five years.”  Manulife fell 34 cents, or 2.2 percent, to C$15.35 at 4:09
p.m. on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The shares have dropped 21
percent this year, the worst-performer among the 44-company
 S&P/TSX Financials Index .  At the conference today, Manulife declined to give specific
 earnings forecasts  for future years. The C$4 billion goal is
based on current accounting standards and doesn’t assume any net
issuance of debt or equity capital.  Hedging Program  Manulife said it began a new “macro” hedging program,
shorting C$2.5 billion of equity futures contracts. If the
hedges were in place Sept. 30, they would have cut net-income
volatility by about C$150 million, the insurer said in a
statement.  Asia may produce net income of C$1.5 billion by 2015, said
 Robert Cook , Manulife’s senior executive vice president and
general manager of Asia. For the first nine months of 2010, Asia
produced profit of C$284 million. The company said it may expand
in Korea and India.  “We’d be very interested in operating in Korea if the
right opportunity developed,” said Guloien, 53. “We would hope
to have a true partnership, a 50-50 partnership, if we were to
operate in India.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 