-- Apple May Unveil New IPad in Early 2011, Analysts Say
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-11-19T21:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/apple-may-introduce-thinner-ipad-tablet-early-next-year-analysts-predict.html
Apple Inc.  may introduce a thinner
iPad in the first half of next year with features such as a
camera for video-calling and chips made by  Qualcomm Inc.  that
let it work on global wireless networks, analysts say.  Production may start as early as January, with an
introduction to the public by February or March, said  Mike Abramsky , an  analyst  with RBC Capital Markets in Toronto. The
device will feature Qualcomm chips that allow a Web connection
on both GSM and CDMA networks, the dominant radio standards used
in mobile phones, said  Brian Blair  of Wedge Partners, who said
he expects an April debut.  “They can sell it around the globe without having to worry
if it works with one carrier’s network or another carrier’s
network,” said Blair, who is based in New York.  Infineon Technologies AG , whose wireless business is being
acquired by Intel Corp., now makes those radio chips for the
iPad.  The announcement’s  timing  would put the iPad on an annual
cycle of introductions similar to those of iPhones and iPods.  Paul Jacobs , chief executive officer of San Diego-based
Qualcomm, declined to comment when asked in a Nov. 16 interview
if his company’s chips will be part of new products by Apple.
Apple declined to comment, said  Natalie Harrison , a spokeswoman.  Suppliers of parts to the iPad have had fourth-quarter
orders cut by about 10 percent, said  Patrick Wang  an analyst at
Wedbush Morgan Securities in New York. The most likely
explanation is that Apple wants to draw down inventory ahead of
the new model’s launch in the first quarter of 2011, he said.  Bigger Than IPod  Apple , based in Cupertino, California, fell $1.70 to
$306.73 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
The shares have risen 46 percent this year.  Qualcomm , up 3.7
percent this year, advanced 24 cents to $47.96 in Nasdaq
trading.  The iPad, which went on sale in April, accounted for about
13.7 percent of Apple’s  revenue  last quarter, more than the
nine-year-old old iPod media player. The device helped establish
a market for tablet computers that blend the capabilities of a
smartphone and notebook computer, leading rivals such  Samsung
Electronics Co.  and  Research In Motion Ltd.  to introduce their
own models.  Apple may sell 48 million iPads next year, said Blair.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  