-- Marseille Oil Port Remains at `Mercy' of Union Unrest, Deputy Mayor Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2010-11-19T10:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/marseille-oil-port-to-remain-at-mercy-of-union-deputy-says.html
Marseille’s oil terminals,
Europe’s second-biggest hub for importing crude, will remain at
risk of labor unrest because a government-led overhaul won’t go
far enough to privatize operations, according to a lawmaker.  “A small group of about 30 union members has retained the
power to block the oil port,” said Roland Blum, parliamentarian
for the ruling UMP party and deputy mayor of Marseille in charge
of economic development and the port. “This won’t change.”  The Mediterranean harbor is still clearing the last of as
many as 78 vessels left stranded last month during a 33-day
labor conflict that blocked crude imports into France, forcing a
temporary halt to some of the half-dozen refineries dependent on
its supply. The action was part of a broader protest against
President Nicolas Sarkozy’s plan to raise the retirement age
that disrupted transport, schools, power plants and businesses.  The port strike started Sept. 27 as a protest against the
enactment of a 2008 law meant to make French harbors more
efficient by moving workers operating equipment such as cranes
from state-owned ports to privately owned cargo handling
companies. The CGT union, the biggest at the ports, that same
year won a concession to the law that the Marseille terminals
will remain 60-percent-owned by the state port authority.  “The reform has been watered down,” Blum said by phone.
“Some people have said we need to go step-by-step but in the
meantime clients are going elsewhere. As long as we are at the
mercy of the union the situation may calm down for a while
because we had such as long strike but we will get another.”  Guaranteed Jobs  The union has won guarantees of jobs and continued state
control of the terminals, said Pascal Galeote, the CGT ports
union representative in Marseille who has led the strikes at the
port in recent years.  “Talks are continuing and we are looking for a certain
stabilization of the situation,” he said in a phone interview.
“We aren’t in the frame of mind right now for more strikes, but
there can also be no going back on what we have obtained.”  French cargo handlers and unions are currently in talks on
early retirement for port workers as part of their contracts.
This will allow them be transferred to the companies, although
it is unclear when an agreement will be signed.  French refiners including  Total SA , Exxon Mobil Corp. and
Ineos Group Holdings Plc have long complained through industry
group UFIP that Marseille’s oil terminals are expensive and less
reliable that other hubs such as Genoa in Italy.  History of Strife  Under the plan for Marseille’s Fos and Lavera terminals,
220 workers will be transferred to a unit controlled by the port
called Fluxel. They will keep all of their benefits until
retirement and can come back to the port if the unit runs into
financial difficulty, according to an Oct. 1 port statement,
which came in the midst of the latest conflict.  Marseille has a long history of labor strife. The CGT shut
ports for 170 days to protest a 1992 law that moved dockworkers
to non-state companies. A strike at the terminals in March 2007
lasted 17 days and a 12-day strike in December 2008 cost
refineries 26 million euros ($36 million), according to  UFIP .  Total, Europe’s biggest refiner, estimated it lost 100
million euros because of the ports and refineries strike last
month while UFIP put the cost at 230 million euros for all its
members.  The cost of shipping 80,000 ton cargoes of crude oil across
the Mediterranean to refineries in southern Europe climbed 14
percent between Sept. 26 and Oct. 25, four days before the
strike ended, according to data from the London-based Baltic
Exchange.  “The 33 days of strikes were a catastrophe for
Marseille,” Blum said. “The port’s problems should level off
to some extent as employees gradually move into the private
sector but this won’t happen at the oil terminals until
importers get full control of the operations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris on 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   Alaric Nightingale  in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  