-- Commodities Fall as China Takes Steps to Curb Inflation; U.S. Stocks Climb
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-11-19T21:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/asian-stocks-copper-fall-yen-gains-on-speculation-china-to-raise-rates.html
Commodities sank after China told
banks to set aside more reserves in an effort to curb inflation,
while the euro gained amid prospects for a financial rescue for
Ireland. U.S. stocks advanced after Nike Inc. increased its
dividend and earnings at technology companies topped estimates.  The S&P GSCI Index  of commodities tumbled 0.9 percent at 4
p.m. in New York to extend a weekly slump to 2.8 percent, its
biggest slide since August. The euro climbed against 14 of 16
major peers. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.3 percent to
1,199.73, erasing an earlier 0.6 percent slide. Irish bonds
reversed a rally as Allied Irish Banks Plc said its reliance on
funding from central banks tripled, underscoring the nation’s
need for a financial rescue.  Earlier declines in U.S. stocks followed a drop in European
equities after the People’s Bank of China announced plans to
increase banks’ reserve ratio requirements by 50 basis points.
Optimism that an international bailout for Ireland will limit
contagion across Europe’s larger debt markets helped drive the
euro higher against the dollar for three straight days.  “It’s the fifth time China is doing this tightening and
every time it happens, the world freaks out,” said  Kevin Rendino , a money manager at New York-based BlackRock Inc., which
oversees $3.45 trillion. “People think it’s going to be the
beginning of the end.”  The Dollar Index, which measures the currency against six
major trading partners, slipped 0.3 percent to 78.413.  ‘Robust Growth’  The best way to underpin the dollar and support the global
recovery “is through policies that lead to a resumption of
robust growth in a context of price stability in the United
States,” Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a
speech in Frankfurt today. Countries that undervalue their
currencies may eventually inhibit growth around the world and
risk financial instability at home, he said.  The yield on 30-year U.S. bonds fell five basis points to
4.24 percent after the Fed bought $2.2 billion of government
debt maturing from August 2028 to November 2040, the first
purchases of longer-dated Treasuries in the round of its so-
called quantitative-easing plan that began Nov. 12.  The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield decreased three basis
points to 2.87 percent. The yield on the two-year Treasury note
rose less than one basis point to 0.51 percent.  Commodities Slide  Sugar, cotton and corn slumped at least 3.8 percent to lead
the retreat in commodities. Crude oil lost 0.4 percent to $81.51
a barrel in New York and slid 4 percent since November 12,
capping its biggest weekly decline since August. Cotton futures
tumbled the exchange limit 6 cents to $1.2315 a pound in New
York, extending the biggest weekly loss in 20 months, amid
India’s plan to boost output and China’s steps to curb
inflation.  The  S&P 500  added to yesterday’s 1.5 percent rally, the
biggest gain in two weeks, and closed less than 0.1 percent
higher for the week. Nike surged 4.1 percent after boosting its
quarterly payout to 31 cents from 27 cents. Salesforce.com Inc.,
the biggest seller of online customer-relationship software,
surged 18 percent for the best gain in the index after its
third-quarter earnings and fourth-quarter sales forecast topped
analysts’ estimates.  Dell Inc. , the world’s third-largest supplier of personal
computers, rose 1.7 percent after reporting earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates. General Motors Co., which went bankrupt
last year, rose 0.2 percent in its second day of trading after
raising more than $20 billion in an initial public offering.  About three stocks fell for every two that rose on the
 Stoxx 600 . Banco Santander SA lost 1.8 percent and Rio Tinto
Group slid 1.2 percent. Zodiac Aerospace SA slumped 6.1 percent
after Safran SA said it has decided not to bid for the company.  ‘Tackling Its Problem’  China’s Shanghai Composite Index advanced 0.8 percent
before the announcement about bank reserve ratios. The gauge
retreated 3.2 percent this week as concern deepened that the
government will tighten monetary policy to curb the fastest
inflation in two years. China’s central bank will raise its
benchmark lending rate by the end of December, according to
analysts at nine banks surveyed this week by Bloomberg News.  “There’s heightened awareness of inflationary pressures
within emerging markets,” said  Hayes Miller , the Boston-based
head of asset allocation in North America at Baring Asset
Management, which oversees about $50.6 billion. “The worry is
that any kind of tightening may have unintended consequences.
Any piece of data in the mosaic of inflation in emerging markets
is going to be scrutinized heavily. It’s still a risk-on, risk-
off story.”  The euro appreciated against all of its most-traded
counterparts except the Swiss franc and Danish krone, gaining at
last 0.6 percent versus the Australian dollar, Brazilian real
and British pound.  Irish Debt  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
debt instead of benchmark German bunds was little changed at 541
basis points,  down  from an all-time high of 652 basis points
last week. The gap between Portuguese bonds and bunds slipped
one basis point to 404 basis points, after soaring to a euro-era
record of 484 basis points on Nov. 11.  Allied Irish Banks, Ireland’s second-biggest bank, said it
has tripled its reliance on funding from central banks since the
end of June. The bank’s dependence on “monetary authorities”
rose to 27 billion euros ($37 billion) from a “high single-
digit” billion-euro amount on June 30,  Alan Kelly , general
manager of group corporate services at Allied Irish, said in a
telephone interview today. The bank also said customer deposits
shrank 17 percent this year amid the debt crisis.  Irish Bailout Talks  Irish lenders have become more reliant on European Central
Bank funding after being frozen out of wholesale markets and
Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  is edging toward accepting an
international rescue package that may threaten the country’s
low-tax policies and put voters on the hook to repay loans the
central bank says may be worth “tens of billions” of euros.  Cowen told reporters today that talks with the European
Union and the International Monetary Fund are “going well” and
his government is seeking the “best possible” package.  “There is no doubt that a deal on a financial aid package
for Ireland will be reached, possibly at some stage over the
next week, and this has helped turn euro sentiment more
favorable,”  Derek Halpenny , European head of global currency
research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London, wrote
in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 