-- Asian Stocks Climb for Second Day, Led by Computer-Related, Oil Companies
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2010-11-19T10:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/asian-stocks-advance-for-second-day-on-u-s-economic-data-ireland-hopes.html
Asian  stocks  rose for a second day,
led by technology and energy companies, after Dell Inc.’s profit
exceeded analyst estimates and oil prices reversed losses.  Samsung Electronics Co., Asia’s biggest chipmaker, gained
2.4 percent in Seoul,  leading  computer-related shares higher.
Cnooc Ltd., China’s No. 1 offshore oil producer, climbed 1.9
percent in Hong Kong as crude prices increased amid speculation
Ireland will be bailed out of its debt crisis. Sino Land Co.
fell 1.5 percent in Hong Kong on expectations the city will
announce new measures today to cool the property market.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 0.2 percent to 131.91 at
7:36 p.m. in Tokyo. The gauge, which swung between a 0.6 percent
gain and a 0.2 percent drop, sank the first three days this week
on concern over Ireland and how China will tackle inflation.  “The Ireland issue looks like it’ll be resolved, but
concern about what policy measures China introduces to stem
inflationary concerns is likely to weigh on the markets for some
time,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in
Melbourne at Pengana Capital Ltd.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slipped 0.1 percent after
plunging 1.6 percent. China’s Shanghai Composite Index reversed
a 2.1 percent drop to climb 0.8 percent at the close as concern
faded that policy makers will raise interest rates as soon as
this weekend and investors speculated losses were overdone.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 0.1 percent, South
Korea’s Kospi Index increased 0.7 percent and Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.2 percent.  Computer Shares Rise  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.3 percent.
The index gained 1.5 percent yesterday in New York as
speculation grew that Ireland will accept a bailout to rescue
indebted banks and reports on U.S. manufacturing and jobless
claims bolstered optimism about the world’s biggest economy.  Information-technology shares  rose the most  today among the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s 10 industry groups. Samsung climbed
2.4 percent to 818,000 won in Seoul.  HTC Corp. , the world’s No.
1 maker of handsets using Google Inc. and Microsoft Corp.
operating systems, gained 3 percent to NT$827 in Taipei.  Dell, the world’s third-largest supplier of personal
computers, yesterday reported quarterly profit that exceeded
analysts’ predictions as declining component prices resulted in
fatter margins. Profit excluding certain items was 45 cents a
share in the fiscal third quarter, topping the 32-cent average
of estimates in a Bloomberg survey.
       Elpida Memory Inc. , the world’s third-largest maker of
computer-memory chips, jumped 5.7 percent to 989 yen in Tokyo.
The company was raised to “outperform” from “neutral” by
Masaharu Sato, an analyst at Daiwa Securities Group Inc.  Energy Companies  Cnooc increased 1.9 percent to HK$17.60. PetroChina Co.,
the nation’s largest oil producer, gained 1.3 percent to HK$9.70.
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. , also known as Sinopec,
advanced 0.7 percent to HK$7.28.  Crude for December delivery rose as much 0.8 percent to
$82.50 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  increased 9.3 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with 7.3 percent for the S&P 500 and
6.8 percent for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the Asian
benchmark are valued at 14.5 times estimated earnings on average,
compared with 14.1 times for the S&P 500 and 12.2 times for the
Stoxx 600.  Developers Decline  Finance-related companies dropped the most in the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index, led by Hong Kong property developers. Sino Land
declined 1.5 percent to HK$16.32. New World Development Co.,
controlled by billionaire Cheng Yu-tung, fell 2.5 percent to
HK$15.88 and  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. , Hong Kong’s biggest
developer by market value, lost 1 percent to HK$134.20.  Hong Kong’s government plans new measures to cool the
property market that will be related to the stamp duty imposed
on home sales, and will make an announcement today, a person
familiar with the situation said this afternoon. The government
announced the plan after the close of trading.  The International Monetary Fund said in a report yesterday
that Hong Kong’s accelerating asset inflation risks causing a
bust that leads to deflation and an extended economic
“downturn.” The government should consider raising stamp
duties on housing and taxes on higher-end properties if asset
inflation persists, the fund said.  “Property curbs in Hong Kong certainly are hurting the
developers today,” said  Andrew Sullivan , director of
institutional sales trading at OSK Securities Hong Kong Ltd. “I
doubt the government can really do very much.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicolas Johnson at 
 nicojohnson@bloomberg.net . 