-- Asian Currencies Pare Weekly Losses as Ireland Moves Toward Bank Bailout
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2010-11-19T21:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/asian-currencies-pare-weekly-losses-as-ireland-concern-eases.html
Asian currencies pared losses for
the week as signs Ireland will accept a bailout and regional
economies are sustaining growth fuelled investor appetite for
higher-yielding assets.  Irish central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said on Nov. 18
he expects to tap a loan from the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund worth “tens of billions” of euros,
cutting demand for the safety of the dollar. Asian exchange
rates dropped this week on concern governments will impose
controls to curb capital inflows. South Korea’s finance ministry
said on Nov. 18 it backs legislation for a tax on bonds.  “Much will depend on whether Dublin’s IMF-EU deal is
finalized over the weekend,” said  Radhika Rao , a regional
economist at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “Investors don’t like
this kind of uncertainty” such as South Korea’s withholding tax,
Rao said.  South Korea’s won appreciated 0.1 percent to 1,133.65 per
dollar in Seoul, reducing its decline this week to 0.5 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia’s ringgit rose
0.2 percent to 3.1174, paring the drop in the past five days to
0.2 percent. Thailand’s baht was little changed at 29.94 and was
down 0.6 percent for the week.  South Korea’s government will back legislation reinstating
a 14 percent tax on interest income from treasury and central
bank bonds and a 20 percent capital gains levy on their sale,
the finance ministry said on Nov. 18.  “Concern over the government’s capital-control measures
has also not fully subsided,” said  Lee Young Chul , a currency
dealer at Korea Exchange Bank in Seoul. “We’ve seen authorities
limiting gains near 1,130 per dollar.”  Taiwan Economy  Taiwan’s dollar strengthened after the economy expanded
more than forecast in the third quarter. The currency climbed
0.2 percent to NT$30.673, taking the week’s gain to 0.3 percent.  Gross domestic product rose 9.8 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, the government reported after the
close of trading on Nov. 18. The median  estimate  of economists
in a Bloomberg News survey was for growth of 8.3 percent.  “Taiwan’s economy is in a very good shape, and it will
continue to attract hot money,” said  Hao-Yun Juan , a currency
trader in Taipei at Kingstown Bank. “This puts more pressure on
the central bank to stem gains in the currency.”  The ringgit advanced for a second day after the central
bank said it isn’t considering measures to curb capital inflows.
Malaysia, whose bonds have attracted record funds from abroad
this year, will maintain “rigorous surveillance” to ensure its
markets aren’t overwhelmed, central bank Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz  said in Oslo on Nov. 18.  Ringgit Strength  “It’s a signal that they can still tolerate ringgit
strength, and that’s what the market is looking for,” said  Nik M. Khairul , a treasury dealer at Asian Finance Bhd. in Kuala
Lumpur. “Most central banks are still guarding against hot
money.”  Overseas holdings of Malaysia’s debt were 68 billion
ringgit ($21.8 billion) as of Sept. 30, about 66 percent more
than at the end of last year, according to data from Bank Negara
Malaysia on Oct. 29.  “This is not on the cards to impose any restrictions on
capital inflows,” Zeti told reporters. “Of course, we will
collaborate with other countries if the need arises and there is
any risk to stability in our region.”  Elsewhere, the Singapore dollar slid 0.2 percent this week
to S$1.2952 against the U.S. currency and the Philippine peso
dropped 0.2 percent to 43.81. Indonesia’s rupiah lost 0.1
percent to 8,933 and the Indian rupee declined 0.9 percent to
45.19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 