-- Lazard’s Rohatyn, ‘Shocked’ by Lehman, Blasts ‘Rampant Greed’
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2010-11-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/lazard-s-rohatyn-shocked-by-lehman-blasts-rampant-greed-.html
Felix Rohatyn , the Jewish boy who
escaped Nazi-occupied France and became an influential  Lazard
Freres & Co.  banker, is beginning to sound like Captain Renault
in “Casablanca.”  He was “shocked,” he says -- shocked! -- when he picked
up the New York Times on Sept. 15, 2008, and saw the banner
headline, “Lehman Files for Bankruptcy.”  “I sat in stunned silence at the breakfast table, unable
to do much more than look out my apartment windows and gaze at
the wide, leafy canopy of Central Park’s trees stretching into
the distance,” he writes in “Dealings,” a charming yet
slippery memoir of his life in finance and politics.  Shocked? Rohatyn, 82, was then acting as a consultant for
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . He himself had battled to avert a
Wall Street meltdown in the 1970s, a struggle that presaged that
of  Henry M. Paulson Jr . and  Ben S. Bernanke .  No one should have been less stunned than Rohatyn, the deal
wizard who negotiated some of the biggest acquisitions in
history; helped  Harold Geneen  stitch together the conglomerate
 International Telephone & Telegraph Corp. ; and steered New York
City away from bankruptcy. Yet that’s how he presents himself
throughout this book -- as naive, overly idealistic and caught
in the maws of fate.  “I was a pinstriped lamb being led to the slaughter,” he
says of his appearance in 1972 Senate hearings on whether the
Nixon administration had dropped an antitrust investigation of
ITT in exchange for a $400,000 donation to the Republican
National Committee.  ‘Felix the Fixer’  Rohatyn had met Deputy Attorney General  Richard Kleindienst 
to try to head off the probe. A Washington Post columnist dubbed
him “Felix the Fixer.” Still smarting all these years later,
Rohatyn cites Watergate tapes that show how  Richard Nixon 
ordered Kleindienst to  back off  the day before Rohatyn’s
appointment.  “I had been window dressing,” he says.  Rohatyn attributes much of his success in life to luck.
When he was 12, his family slipped through a German checkpoint
outside Marseilles -- and on to freedom -- because a soldier was
too busy lighting a cigarette to stop them. After a poor showing
in physics at Middlebury College in Vermont, he wound up
tutoring chanteuse  Edith Piaf  in English. Out of work in 1949,
his stepfather offered to help by approaching an acquaintance,
 Andre Meyer , the senior partner at Lazard.  “I had no idea what an investment bank did,” he says.
“But I did need a paycheck.”  Behind the Scenes  Throughout this account, Rohatyn exudes boyish enthusiasm
and offers peeks behind the scenes: We see Meyer surrounded in
his apartment at the  Carlyle Hotel  with paintings by Gauguin,
Picasso and Renoir, for example. And  Jack Welch  of General
Electric Co. exploring a merger with RCA Corp. boss Thornton
Bradshaw in Rohatyn’s library one cold November evening in 1985.
When Bradshaw rose from his armchair, his tuxedo was covered
with white hair from a family cat, Figaro.  Writing in brisk declarative sentences, Rohatyn draws
lessons from his life and deplores what has happened to
capitalism. This is, as he puts it, the story of a man who
became an investment banker in a simpler era and now laments how
“rampant greed” has undermined the purpose of Wall Street --to
funnel money from investors to productive companies.  Matchmaker, Bailouts  He seems blind, though, to the role he himself played in
this transformation. He pooh-poohs the conglomerate craze of the
“go-go” 1960s, yet he himself was flying around the country as
a corporate matchmaker. He expresses distaste for hostile
takeovers, yet he initiated an early one:  ITT’s  bid for Hartford
Fire Insurance Co. in 1968. And then there’s the role he played
in the bailout of Lockheed Aircraft Corp., which became a
blueprint for future government rescues.  Those seeking glimpses of Rohatyn’s romantic life will be
disappointed. Ever the diplomat -- he served as U.S. ambassador
to France from 1997 to 2000 -- Rohatyn draws a veil around his
personal life, making only passing references for example to his
first wife and children. For a less sanitized account, try
 William D. Cohan ’s Lazard history, “The Last Tycoons.”  Still, one can only admire Rohatyn’s tenacious work in
pulling New York City back from the brink in the 1970s. His
account brings the Big Apple’s self-inflicted mess to life, from
the roughly $6 billion in short-term debt and striking
sanitation workers -- “Welcome to Stink City,” read the signs
-- to President  Gerald Ford ’s opposition to a federal bailout.  “Ford to City: Drop Dead,” screamed the Daily News
headline.  In joining the rescue, Rohatyn says he hoped to expunge the
stain of the ITT affair -- to “restore my own wrongly tarnished
reputation.” Felix the Fixer became Mr. Fix-It.  “Dealings: A Political and Financial Life” is from Simon
& Schuster (292 pages, $27). To buy this book in North America,
click  here .  ( James Pressley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 James Pressley  in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 