-- Bachmann, Cantor Join Congressmen in Brief Against Health Care Legislation
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-11-19T21:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/bachmann-cantor-join-congressmen-in-brief-against-health-care-legislation.html
Congresswoman  Michele Bachmann  and
62 other members of the U.S. House of Representatives filed a
court brief backing a lawsuit by 20 states challenging the
legality of the Obama administration’s health care legislation.  The filing by Bachmann, a Minnesota Republican, and the
other lawmakers is one of about a dozen submitted to U.S.
District Judge  Roger Vinson  in Pensacola, Florida, this week as
he weighs a U.S. motion to throw out the lawsuit.  A group of about 40 economics scholars, including Nobel
laureates  Eric Maskin ,  George Akerlof  and  Kenneth Arrow , today
filed their own brief, arguing in favor of the legislative
package called the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.  “The requirement to obtain a minimal level of health
insurance is predicated on the unique characteristics of the
health-care market,” they said, including “the unavoidable
need for medical care,” the unpredictability of that need and
the inability of care providers to decline care in an emergency.  Led by Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum , the states
initially sued on March 23, the same day U.S. President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, signed the measure into law.  The state officials, who are all Republicans except for
Democrat  Buddy Caldwell  of Louisiana, argued that the law
unconstitutionally burdened states with increased costs and
individuals with the duty to procure coverage.  ‘Without Prior Precedent’  McCollum and his successor, Attorney General-Elect  Pam Bondi , sent an open  letter  to 10 incoming attorneys general and
three newly elected governors seeking their participation in the
case.  Vinson in October ruled that the case could go forward
after finding that the U.S. government’s expansion of power is
“simply without prior precedent.” He is scheduled to hear
further argument on Dec. 16.  “Congress cannot pass any law that seems to most
efficiently address a national problem,” Bachmann and the other
representatives said in a brief filed in part by the Washington-
based American Center for Law and Justice.  “Every federal law must derive from one of the grants of
authority found in the Constitution,” the legislators and the
ACLJ said today.  Almost 80 legislators from 27 states, including Arizona,
Colorado, Texas, New York, North Carolina and 14 from Vermont,
today filed their own briefs, telling Vinson the 20-state
challenge to the federal health-care measure should be rejected.  ‘Substantial’ Benefits  “The benefits of national health-care reform for states
and their citizens will be substantial in part because the size
of the problem with health care is so great,” said the
lawmakers, some of whom hail from states that filed the federal
challenge.  The American Nurses Association, claiming it represents 3.1
million registered nurses, submitted a friend-of-the-court brief
today supporting the administration’s legislation, calling it
“a significant achievement” for the patients served by
association members.  Two days ago, the American Association of People with
Disabilities, the National Breast Cancer Coalition, the non-
profit infant health advocate March of Dimes and other
organizations also filed a brief backing the act.  John Boehner ’s Brief  Incoming House of Representatives Speaker  John Boehner , an
Ohio Republican, and 32 Republican U.S. senators have separately
submitted papers arguing the legislation represents an
unconstitutional expansion of congressional legislative powers.  “Congress has never before attempted to impose an
affirmative obligation to purchase a product or service or
participate in any kind of activity” through the constitutional
provision they rely on for the health-care law, the senators
said.  In his ruling last month, Vinson allowed Florida to proceed
on its claim that Medicaid would be expanded dramatically and
the states cannot realistically opt out.  He threw out arguments that the law interferes with the
state’s sovereignty as an employer and the mandate for
individuals to get coverage violates the right to due process of
law.  A federal judge in Michigan upheld the constitutionality of
the health-care overhaul in October, rejecting an argument by a
self-described Christian law center in the first court victory
for the new law.  A separate action filed by Virginia Attorney General
 Kenneth Cuccinelli  is before a federal judge in Richmond. U.S.
District Judge  Henry E. Hudson  in Richmond, Virginia, has said
the trial courts represent “one brief stop on the way to the
Supreme Court.”  The case is  State of Florida  v. U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services, 3:10-cv-00091, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Florida (Pensacola).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 