-- Bakrie Says Bumi’s London Move to Cut Coal Miner’s Debt Costs
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-11-19T09:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/bakrie-says-bumi-s-london-move-to-cut-coal-miner-s-debt-costs.html
Bringing Bumi Plc to London will get
the  Indonesian miner  the financing it needs to almost double
output by 2013 and make it the world’s biggest exporter of power
station coal, said  Indra Bakrie , who will chair the company.  “The reason to be in London is also that it’s going to be
a lot easier for Bumi to start growing organically,” Bakrie,
whose family will control 43 percent of the company, said in an
interview yesterday. “In 10 years from now we should be able to
be the biggest coal producer. We are not going to stay quiet and
do everything only in Indonesia.”  Being in London will allow the company to refinance its
$4.2 billion in debt at lower interest rates, freeing up cash
flow to invest in expansion, he said.  Nathaniel Rothschild ’s Vallar Plc this week agreed to
invest $3 billion in two Indonesian coal companies, including PT
Bumi Resources. After the deal, Vallar will be renamed Bumi Plc
and Bakrie Group will be the largest shareholder. Bakrie is the
first major Indonesian business to tap the  U.K. equity market ,
home to mining stocks with a total market value of more than
$250 billion.  Bumi will seek to tap surging demand for power station coal
in China by expanding output of its mines in Indonesia as well
as seeking new operations abroad. China’s demand for imports is
estimated to grow as much as sevenfold within four years,
according to  James Campbell , a Vallar executive who will be head
of business development and strategy for Bumi.  “The big growth story in the coal space has been
Indonesia,” Campbell, 60, said in an interview. “The growth of
Indonesian coal has gone from zero to hero in the last 10
years.”  Overtook Australia  Indonesia, which overtook Australia as the largest exporter
of power-station coal in 2005, is closer to Asia’s largest
markets than competitors, making the cost of shipping lower.
Global trade will grow 4 percent next year to 651 million tons
as Indian imports increase 17 percent and China’s by 9 percent,
according to shipbroker Clarkson Plc.  “What we need to do is to be able to be the biggest
supplier of coal in the world and to be able to do that, we have
a way now,” Bakrie said in London. “It was a dream only
before. Before we met Vallar.”  Indra and his family control  Bakrie Group , a palm oil-to-
property empire founded by his father in Sumatra in 1942.
Rothschild, whose ancestor helped bankroll Britain’s war against
Napoleonic France, will join Bakrie as co-chairman of the board.  Newcastle Prices  Asian benchmark prices at Newcastle, Australia, have gained
22 percent to $113 a ton this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. China, the world’s biggest coal user, will import
record amounts of the fuel in November and December, according
to Commodore Research.  Under this week’s accord, Bumi Plc will acquire 25 percent
of  PT Bumi Resources  and a 75 percent holding in PT Berau Coal
Energy, the country’s fifth-largest miner. Together the
companies’ mines will produce about 78 million tons this year.  Bumi Plc will seek to almost double production from mines
in Indonesia to 140 million metric tons of coal by 2013 at an
estimated cost of $1.2 billion, excluding infrastructure related
expenses, Campbell said. The deal to bring Bumi to London is
expected to be completed by April next year.  “For me, personally it’s just like getting your first bike
when you’re a kid,” Bakrie said. “This Bumi Plc will be the
coal champion in London. It’s very exciting, very exciting.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 