-- Banker-Bashing Scania CEO Goes on Offensive as VW Stirs Merger
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2010-11-19T12:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/banker-bashing-scania-ceo-goes-on-offensive-as-vw-stirs-merger.html
Scania AB  Chief Executive Officer
 Leif Oestling  has spent decades eschewing acquisitions and
fighting hostile takeovers. His final act may be to see through
the merger of his Swedish company with German archrival MAN SE.  “Scania has never been a company that’s done big
spectacular deals but it’s working on its own operations and
it’s turned out real well,” former MAN CEO  Hakan Samuelsson ,
who failed in his attempt to buy the Swedish truckmaker, said in
a phone interview. “Leif’s doing a good job.”  Scania, which headed off Samuelsson’s 2006 approach, said
Nov. 15 combining the two truckmakers is necessary to squeezing
out all possible cost cuts. Scania and MAN, prodded by
shareholder  Volkswagen AG , have been exploring cooperation talks
on purchasing, manufacturing and research and development.  A merger with MAN to create Europe’s largest commercial-
vehicle maker would mark a shift for Oestling, 65, who in the
past has said bankers, driven to pursue deals for profit, ignore
the difficulties in making mergers succeed. Oestling, who has
run Soedertaelje, Sweden-based  Scania  for 21 years, has instead
focused on honing his manufacturing system, which emulates
production methods used by Porsche SE for passenger cars.  “Leif’s refined it continuously and I think it’s the
reason they’ve been able to get such a broad product range while
being competitive,” said retired Scania board chairman  Anders Scharp , adding Oestling has an “almost religious belief” in
Scania’s production process.  Top Profitability  Those efforts have produced the best operating margins in
the industry.  Scania ’s nine-month return on sales was 16.2
percent. The operating margin in the period at MAN, which owns
17.4 percent of Scania, was 6.9 percent, while Volvo AB was 6.5
percent and Daimler AG’s heavy truck unit was 5.4 percent.  Scania  and MAN’s shares have doubled over the past five
years, compared with a 44 percent gain for Swedish competitor
Volvo. Scania fell 0.6 percent to 144.70 kronor at 1:31 p.m. in
Stockholm, valuing the truckmaker at 115 billion kronor ($16.8
billion). MAN added 0.6 percent to 90.29 euros on the Frankfurt
exchange for a market value of 13 billion euros ($17.8 billion).  Oestling received a contract extension in May 2008, two
months after VW, Europe’s largest carmaker, became the
controlling shareholder with 67 percent of the voting rights.
His extension runs through March 2012. He talks regularly with
Chairman  Ferdinand Piech . The two have worked together since VW
first bought a stake in Scania in 2000 and Piech was VW CEO.  VW Board Meeting  “The best proof that he’s a great company leader may be
that the Germans seem to appreciate him a great deal,” said
Lancelot Asset Management AB chairwoman  Peggy Bruzelius , who sat
on Scania’s board until May. “There aren’t that many CEOs at
his age that are asked to continue working.”  VW’s supervisory board gathered today and approved a 51.6
billion-euro five-year spending plan for its automotive
business. A statement issued by the carmaker after the meeting
made no reference to the truckmakers. VW owns 29.9 percent of
Munich-based MAN.  Oestling’s tendency to speak his mind has won him both
admirers and detractors. After clashing with the then-Swedish
prime minister in 2004, Oestling publicly called on him to
resign. During the takeover battle with  MAN , he criticized
German corporate culture and accused Samuelsson of “not doing
his homework” before launching his bid for Scania.  Executive Swap  At the height of the fight, he compared MAN’s tactics to a
“blitzkrieg,” the swift military offensive used by Nazi
Germany. He was forced two days later to apologize.  Oestling, who declined to be interviewed for this story,
has spent 38 years at  Scania , having worked his way through the
ranks since joining in 1972. He ran the Dutch operations in the
1980s and was appointed Scania chief, then a Saab-Scania
division, in 1989. He became CEO in 1994, when the two split.  Having held a number of positions himself, Oestling is
adamant executives get to know the company better by not staying
too long in one position, meaning a marketing chief may suddenly
end up overseeing personnel, said the 76-year-old Scharp, who
ran the board of Scania from 1994 to 2000.  Oestling endeared himself to  employees  during the financial
crisis that led to a collapse in demand by keeping all regular
employees and moving them to a reduced workweek and training
courses. Swedish competitor Volvo, which unsuccessfully tried to
buy Scania in 2000, cut 20,000 jobs.  Long-Term Profit  “He has a modern leadership, for example he has very good
relations with the unions,” said  Hakan Thurfjell , a Scania
board member who represents employees. “We have an open
dialogue about what’s happening.”  He also maintained a profit throughout the crisis, posting
net income of 1.13 billion kronor in 2009, when Volvo,  Daimler 
and MAN all posted losses. Scania has had an annual profit every
year since 1934.  Oestling has often criticized the finance community, which
he says is too short-term in its thinking. He’s also expressed
skepticism over mergers pushed by bankers, saying that adding
two companies together often means a loss in overall market
share as the organizations focus on blending their cultures
instead of beating competitors.  Oestling “repeatedly hasn’t made it a secret that he
doesn’t have the greatest respect for how the capital markets
act,” said  Johan Trocme , a Nordea AB analyst in Stockholm.
“But he’s not a closed door towards the capital markets either.
He thinks the focus is too much about profitability in a quarter
than about long-term building of industrial structures.”  ‘Heat of the Battle’  Oestling, who will have been with Scania for 40 years when
his current contract expires, has said what especially angered
him about the  Volvo  and MAN takeover attempts was that his
competitors didn’t try to talk with him beforehand to reach a
friendly merger agreement. Samuelsson, whom Oestling personally
criticized during the fight, says he harbors no hard feelings.  “It’s easy to say things in the heat of the battle, but
that’s not something that concerns me,” said the 59-year-old
Samuelsson, who left MAN a year ago. The merger is “something
I’ve always believed in, but we’ll see how it develops.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  