-- Bank of Canada's Boivin Says New Global Bank Rules May Curb Future Crises
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-11-19T03:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/bank-of-canada-s-boivin-says-new-global-bank-rules-may-curb-future-crises.html
Bank of Canada Deputy Governor  Jean Boivin  said new international rules will help curb excessive-
risk taking and limit the chance of another financial crisis.  The measures include the International Monetary Fund’s work
on “early warning signs” about credit growth, Basel III rules
on supervision and pledges by Group of 20 nations to boost bank
capital, he said.  “These higher standards will lower the incidence of
financial crises, reduce their severity and provide for smoother
economic cycles,” Boivin, 38, said in the text of a speech he’s
giving tonight in Kelowna, British Columbia. “They will also
reduce the risk that resources are misallocated.”  Boivin’s speech, his first public remarks since he  became 
one of the bank’s five deputies on April 1, made no reference to
the central bank’s current  key interest rate  of 1 percent. The
bank left the rate unchanged at its last decision Oct. 19 after
three prior increases and said future moves would be “carefully
considered” because of a slower-than-expected economic
recovery.  Canada’s  financial system  “held up remarkably well and
buffered us from the worst of the financial storm,” he said.
The economy still shrank by 3 percent in a recession linked to
the global crisis and about 400,000 jobs were lost, he said.  Improvements to the global financial system could create
benefits for Canada worth C$200 billion ($196 billion), or about
13 percent of gross domestic product, he said.  Policy makers “still have a long way to go” for a full
understanding of how “imbalances” can build up in financial
markets and spill over into the “real economy,” he said. For
example, a long period of stable economic conditions can
encourage investors to take excessive risks that lead to a
sudden and “difficult readjustment,” he said.  Before joining the central bank, Boivin was an economist at
HEC Montreal and co-wrote papers with current U.S. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . He was also a research fellow
at the National Bureau of Economic Research.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net . 