-- Bankrupt Owner of Lipstick Building Can Use Cash Collateral
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-11-20T05:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/bankrupt-owner-of-lipstick-building-can-use-cash-update1-.html
The owner of Lipstick Building, the
midtown Manhattan tower where  Bernard L. Madoff  ran the biggest
Ponzi scheme in U.S. history, won interim court permission to
use cash collateral of lenders during its bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Shelley Chapman  in Manhattan granted
Metropolitan 885 Third Avenue Leasehold LLC’s access to cash, on
an interim basis, subject to entry of a final order. She also
agreed yesterday to allow Metropolitan to pay pre-bankruptcy
claims, bar utilities from discontinuing service, and give
protection to lenders.  Royal Bank of Canada  is Metropolitan’s biggest creditor,
under a secured loan of $210 million.  “The cash collateral motion and prepetition payments are
part and parcel of intricate puzzle that forms the basis of this
mutually consensual plan,”  Marc E. Richards , a lawyer for
Metropolitan, told Chapman.  Metropolitan, in its Nov. 16 petition for Chapter 11
bankruptcy, listed both assets and debt of as much as $500
million. In June,  RBC  sued to force a sale of the 34-story tower
after the landlord defaulted on its $210 million loan.
Metropolitan cited lower lease renewal rates, and put forward a
prepackaged reorganization plan that already had RBC’s support.  The skyscraper, between East 53rd Street and 54th Street,
was designed by John Burgee Architects with  Philip Johnson . It
gets its name from its elliptical shape, which resembles a tube
of lipstick, and the red granite on its exterior.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs & Co. owns Metropolitan 885 Third Avenue
Leasehold, according to court papers.  Latham & Watkins LLP  is the building’s largest tenant,
occupying about two-thirds of its total rentable area as of July
2008, according to a statement that year. According to court
papers, the law firm’s lease lasts until June 2021.  Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC rented the
17th, 18th and 19th floors. Federal investigators seized
Madoff’s offices when he was indicted in 2008, and ran their
investigation from the property.  The plan gives RBC 61 percent recovery on its $130 million
secured claim, according to an outline of its terms. RBC
supports the Chapter 11 plan by allowing use of its cash
collateral in exchange for protections, and reducing its claim
to $130 million from $210 million, according to court papers.  The case is In re Metropolitan 885 Third Avenue Leasehold
LLC, 10-16103, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 