-- Bernanke Takes Defense of Monetary Stimulus Abroad, Turns Tables on China
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-11-19T15:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/bernanke-takes-defense-of-monetary-stimulus-abroad-turns-tables-on-china.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended his monetary stimulus to fellow central
bankers, saying it will aid the world economy, and made some of
his strongest criticism of China’s weak-currency policy.  The best way to underpin the dollar and support the global
recovery “is through policies that lead to a resumption of
robust growth in a context of price stability in the United
States,” Bernanke said in a speech in Frankfurt today.
Countries that undervalue their currencies may eventually
inhibit growth around the world and risk financial instability
at home, he said.  The Fed chief is confronting criticism from officials in
countries including China and Brazil who say the Nov. 3 decision
to buy $600 billion in Treasury securities has weakened the
dollar and contributed to flows of capital to emerging markets.
The policy has also come under fire in the U.S., where critics,
including Republican members of Congress, have said it risks
fueling inflation and asset bubbles.  “Globally, both growth and trade are unbalanced,”
Bernanke said. “Because a strong expansion in the emerging-
market economies will ultimately depend on a recovery in the
more advanced economies, this pattern of two-speed growth might
very well be resolved in favor of slow growth for everyone if
the recovery in the advanced economies falls short.”  As Bernanke spoke, the Chinese central bank said it will
raise the reserve ratio requirement for the nation’s banks by 50
basis points from Nov. 29. The dollar fell to $1.3671 per euro
at 9:35 a.m. in New York from $1.3643 yesterday. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent to 1,194.17.  ‘Not so Sure’  Norman Chan , chief executive of the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority, the city’s de facto central bank, said he’s “not so
sure” if the Fed’s purchases will help spur growth or lower the
jobless rate. The “side effect” of the easing for emerging
markets is adding risks of asset bubbles in the region,
including in Hong Kong, Chan told reporters in the city today.  While Bernanke didn’t identify China in his speech, he took
aim at “large, systemically important countries with persistent
current-account surpluses.” Bernanke’s comments come a week
after leaders of the Group of 20 developed and emerging nations
meeting in South Korea failed to agree on a remedy for trade and
investment distortions. At the summit, President  Barack Obama 
attacked China’s policy of undervaluing its currency.  “He’s essentially saying, ‘Don’t blame us, you’re part of
the problem,’”  Robert Eisenbeis , a former Atlanta Fed research
director, said on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.”  Bernanke said the “sense of common purpose has waned”
after officials around the world united to fight the financial
crisis. “Tensions among nations over economic policies have
emerged and intensified, potentially threatening our ability to
find global solutions to global problems,” he said.  Promote Exports  China has tied the yuan to the dollar to promote exports
that helped produce the fastest gains in gross domestic product
of any major economy. China, which surpassed Japan’s GDP to
become world No. 2 in the second quarter, recorded 9.6 percent
annual growth in the three months through September. It holds
about $2.6 trillion in foreign reserves, the most in the world.  China’s foreign ministry had no immediate comment when
asked for a response to Bernanke’s speech. A China central bank
spokesman couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  ‘Quite Skeptical’  After the speech, Bernanke spoke during a panel discussion
and responded to audience questions, saying that the use of
securities purchases for monetary policy affects asset prices
“quite significantly.” He said he’s “quite skeptical” of the
criticism that central bankers are “pushing on a string.”  At the same time, policy makers “don’t want to
overpromise” on a program whose effects are “meaningful” yet
“moderate,” he said on the panel with European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet , International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  and Brazil’s central
bank president  Henrique Meirelles .  It’s Bernanke’s first trip abroad since the Federal Open
Market Committee made the decision, dubbed QE2 by economists and
investors, to implement a second round of so-called quantitative
easing. Bernanke said the term is “inappropriate” because it
usually refers to policies that change the quantity of bank
reserves, “a channel which seems relatively weak, at least in
the U.S. context.”  ‘Worthwhile Gamble’  Fed officials are trying to make the case “it was probably
a worthwhile gamble for the U.S. to try to print a little bit
more money to stimulate the economy without triggering
inflation,” former Fed economist  David Cohen , now a director of
Asia forecasting at Action Economics in Singapore, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Nov. 5 he
was “dumbfounded” at the Fed’s actions, which he said won’t
aid growth and will instead contribute to imbalances by driving
down the currency. U.S. monetary policy is creating “grave
distortions” and causing “collateral effects” on faster-
growing economies such as Brazil, Meirelles said in October.  “I don’t think anybody’s going to be all that convinced
one way or the other,” said Eisenbeis, now chief monetary
economist with Cumberland Advisors Inc. in Sarasota, Florida.
“Everybody has their own views, particularly the Germans and
the Chinese.”  Bernanke said that different economies “call for different
policy settings.” In the U.S., inflation has slowed since the
most recent recession began in December 2007, and “further
disinflation could hinder the recovery,” he said.  “Insufficiently supportive policies in the advanced
economies could undermine the recovery not only in those
economies, but for the world as a whole,” he said.  ‘Slow Pace’  America’s  unemployment rate  at 9.6 percent last month is
currently “high and, given the slow pace of economic growth,
likely to remain so for some time,” Bernanke said. He said that
“we cannot rule out the possibility that unemployment might
rise further in the near term, creating added risks for the
recovery.”  The asset purchases will be used in a way that’s “measured
and responsive to economic conditions,” Bernanke said. Fed
officials are “unwaveringly committed to price stability” and
don’t seek inflation higher than the level of “2 percent or a
bit less” that most policy makers see as consistent with the
Fed’s legislative mandate, he said.  Bernanke, 56, also appealed to human concerns to justify
the Fed’s policy.  “On its current economic trajectory the United States runs
the risk of seeing millions of workers unemployed or
underemployed for many years,” he said. “As a society, we
should find that outcome unacceptable.”  The former Princeton University economist devoted the
majority of his speech to discussing global policy challenges
and tensions.  China’s vice foreign minister,  Cui Tiankai , said Nov. 5
“many countries are worried about the impact of the policy,”
echoing concern across Asia over the risk of a flood of capital
that causes asset bubbles. Economies from Taiwan to Indonesia
and Brazil have taken steps to counter inflows of speculative
money, and South Korea yesterday said it will back legislation
restoring a tax on foreign investment in the nation’s bonds.  Currency Intervention  Bernanke used one of nine charts to show how countries
including China and Taiwan are intervening to prevent or slow
appreciation in their currencies. Allowing stronger currencies
would help result in “more balanced and sustainable global
economic growth,” Bernanke said.  Bernanke, a scholar of the Great Depression, drew a
comparison between the current period and events leading to the
1930s economic disaster. The U.S. and France maintained
“persistently undervalued” exchange rates by preventing
inflows of gold from feeding into money supplies, which created
deflationary pressures in other countries and helped bring on
the Depression, Bernanke said.  “Although the parallels are certainly far from perfect,
and I am certainly not predicting a new Depression, some of the
lessons from that grim period are applicable today,” Bernanke
said. “In particular, for large, systemically important
countries with persistent current-account surpluses, the pursuit
of export-led growth cannot ultimately succeed if the
implications of that strategy for global growth and stability
are not taken into account.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  