-- Billionaire Chandler-Backed Microfinance Firm Delays India IPO on Turmoil
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-11-19T10:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/billionaire-chandler-backed-microfinance-firm-delays-india-ipo-on-turmoil.html
Share Microfin Ltd. , backed by New
Zealand billionaire  Christopher Chandler , plans to delay an
initial public offering after rival microfinance companies in
India sought emergency funds to cope with rising loan defaults.  The lender, based in Hyderabad, had planned to raise 10
billion rupees ($221 million) in early 2011,  Philip Vassiliou ,
managing director of Chandler’s Legatum Ltd., said in an
interview in Mumbai yesterday. The company has also postponed a
merger with another lender, said M. Udaia Kumar, Share
Microfin’s managing director.  Repayment rates have fallen to less than 20 percent in
Andhra Pradesh state for most lenders after the government in
their biggest market clamped down on lending practices in mid-
October, Kumar said. The state  capped rates  for micro-lenders,
who typically offer loans starting at $100, and barred coercive
collection methods following suicides by borrowers.  “The challenge for MFIs is to manage the liquidity
crisis” with the new regulations, Kumar said. “Most of the
MFIs, including Share, have stopped disbursing  loans  in the
state of Andhra Pradesh because of the ordinance.”  The southern state’s new norms included requiring lenders
to shift collections to a monthly basis from weekly, and
ordering repayments to be made only at government-designated
places. That’s led to a slump in cash flows this month and
strained some lenders’ capital levels.  Collections have been further disrupted by politicians
telling borrowers to abstain from payments as loan-waivers may
be granted, Share Microfin’s Kumar said. The lenders’ staff have
also been harassed by local village leaders, who prevented them
from entering the areas or filed police complaints, he said.  The lender won’t consider an IPO until clients begin
repaying debts and state and central governments deal with the
current upheaval, Kumar said.  Banks  and the lenders’ staff also
need to regain confidence in the companies’ operations, he said.  Harassed Staff  Microfinance companies are seeking 10 billion rupees from
banks for an emergency liquidity fund,  Vijay Mahajan , head of
the Microfinance Institutions Network lobbying group, said on
Nov. 16 in New Delhi. Shares of  SKS Microfinance Ltd. , the
nation’s largest provider of small loans, have plummeted 40
percent since Oct. 15, when Andhra Pradesh introduced the rules.  ‘Adequate Liquidity’  SKS has adequate liquidity and doesn’t need emergency
funding, Chairman  Vikram Akula  said in an interview today in
Hyderabad, where the company is based. ICICI Ltd.,  Axis Bank Ltd. 
and Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. are among eight lenders that
provided financing to SKS in the last two weeks, he said.  The company , backed by  George Soros , yesterday said 66
people among its field staff who had been arrested or detained
in the state have been released. Andhra Pradesh accounts for
about 26 percent of SKS’s loan portfolio.  Dubai-based Legatum, which had invested about 1 billion
rupees in Share Microfin in 2007, currently holds a 61.5 percent
stake, Vassiliou and Kumar said yesterday.  Aavishkaar Goodwell ,
a company that provides financing to micro-lenders, owns 3.5
percent, employees hold 2 percent, and the remaining is held by
Kumar and his family, they said.  Legatum isn’t “overly concerned” by the current crisis,
Vassiliou said. Microfinance companies are essential for
providing financing to people in India where banking services
aren’t available, he said.  Still, rising delinquencies may lead smaller lenders to
default on their loans to banks, Kumar said.  “Even if a single MFI defaults, it might have a trickle-
down effect on the entire sector,” he said. “Institutions with
stronger net worth have a possibility of survival for a period
of time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge   jstonge@bloomberg.net  