-- Blackburn Becomes First Indian-Owned Premier League Soccer Club
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-19T13:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/blackburn-becomes-first-indian-owned-premier-league-soccer-club.html
Blackburn Rovers, the 1995 Premier
League champion, became the first Indian-owned English soccer
team when the owners of poultry company Venky’s (India) Ltd.
completed a 23 million pound ($36.8 million) purchase today.  The club built up by the late British steel magnate  Jack Walker  and controlled by a trust bearing his name had been
looking for new owners for more than two years. Two other Indian
groups had been linked with a buyout before Venky’s, a supplier
to McDonald’s, KFC and Pizza Hut in India, made its move.  “Going forward we plan to focus on leveraging the global
influence in establishing Blackburn Rovers as a truly global
brand,”  Anuradha J Desai , the chairman of  Venky’s , said in an
e-mailed statement. “We will absolutely respect the Jack Walker
legacy and will be actively supporting the organization to
ensure that Blackburn Rovers remains one of the best run clubs
within the Premier League.”  Venky’s will have to compete for viewership in the South
Asian nation. Cricket attracts sponsors including Citigroup Inc.
and Vodafone Group Plc, while India ranks 132nd among soccer
playing nations. Venky’s owners join IMG Worldwide Inc., a
sports-management agency, and  Mukesh Ambani , India’s richest
man, in promoting soccer in a cricket-obsessed nation.  To help its promotion push Venky’s is working with Swiss
sports marketers Kentaro Group, a company that controls the
rights to all of six time world champion Brazil’s overseas
matches.  ‘Looking Global’  Blackburn finished 10th in the Premier League last season.
It’s in 14th position in the 20-team top division.  “Indian businesses have started looking global,” said
 Jagannadham Thunuguntla , the chief strategist at SMC Capital.
“Not only are the businesses looking global, but they are also
looking at making flamboyant purchases globally. This shows the
increasing appeal for lifestyle purchases by Indian companies.”  “The successful conclusion of the deal is clearly a
significant event in the history of the club,” said Blackburn
Chairman  John Williams . “It represents the end of the
remarkable Walker era, which saw Rovers projected to the top of
the football pyramid. In the 10 years since Jack’s death the
Board and Trustees together have managed to build on Jack’s
legacy and preside over the Club’s longest term in the top
flight since 1936.”  Ted Forstmann , chairman of IMG and co-founder of buyout
firm Forstmann Little & Co., and Ambani, chairman of Reliance
Industries Ltd., plan to set up an elite sports academy to train
athletes in India, where four-fifths of the population is under
50.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq  Panja in London 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  