-- Boston Scientific to Buy Full Control of Sadra Medical
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-11-19T19:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/boston-scientific-to-buy-sadra-medical-for-386-million-to-get-heart-valve.html
Boston Scientific Corp.  said it
agreed to acquire closely held Sadra Medical Inc. for as much as
$386 million to compete in the $2.1 billion market for
transcathether heart valves that don’t require open-heart
surgery.  Boston Scientific Chief Executive  Ray Elliott  told
investors earlier today the company’s “priority growth
initiatives” would include products targeting asthma, diabetes,
obesity and “structural heart” therapies.  Sadra’s  less-
invasive valve system is a structural heart therapy.  Boston Scientific, the second-biggest maker of heart
devices, faces an industrywide slowdown in its two  biggest
markets , heart-rhythm devices and cardiac stents used to open
clogged arteries. The Natick, Massachusetts-based company will
overhaul its product line, cut costs and seek to improve
profitability over the next three years, hoping to double sales
growth to 6 percent to 8 percent within five years, Elliott said
at a meeting in New York to describe his long-term strategy.  “We have quietly, carefully put together a plan to drive
growth,” Elliott said.  Boston Scientific rose 19 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $6.75,
at 2:22 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares  declined  22 percent in the 12 months through yesterday.  Deal Price  Boston Scientific, which owns 14 percent of Los Gatos,
California-based Sadra, will pay $193 million upfront, with
additional payments of as much as $193 million for certain
milestones, the companies said in a statement. The company’s
current stake reduces the deal cost from a potential $450
million.  The acquisition puts Boston Scientific in competition with
heart-valve maker  Edwards Lifesciences Corp ., of Irvine,
California, and Minneapolis-based  Medtronic Inc ., which paid
$700 million to acquire CoreValve, another valve maker, in 2009.
Boston Scientific “looked at” CoreValve prior to Medtronic’s
acquisition, Elliott said.  “We didn’t feel that was the winning technology,” he
said. “We feel the deal we did today was the winning
technology.”  Seeking Acquisitions  Edwards’s new valve, which is implanted using a thin wire
threaded through the arteries, reduced death rates in a study of
patients too sick for open-heart surgery.  Abbott Laboratories ,
based in Abbott Park, Illinois, and New Brunswick, New Jersey-
based  Johnson & Johnson , the world’s largest maker of health
products, are among those seeking deals to enter the market for
transcatheter valves, said  Antoine Papiernik , managing partner
at Sofinnova Partners in Paris, in a telephone interview. While
the Edwards valve is cleared for sale in Europe, it hasn’t been
approved for U.S. use.  If the ongoing medical trials of Edwards’ valve show it
also works for less severely sick patients, the market for the
new valves may reach $2.1 billion by 2015, said  Larry Biegelsen ,
a Wells Fargo Securities analyst based in New York, in a note to
investors.  The Sadra acquisition will lower Boston Scientific’s
 earnings  by about 1 to 2 cents a year through 2013, then add to
the company’s earnings, according to the statement.  Acquisitions  will continue to be a part of the company’s
growth strategy, Elliott said. It expects to end 2010 with $1.6
billion in cash and to generate $7 billion in cash flow in the
next five years, he said.  Boston Scientific had $624 million in cash and short-term
investments as of Sept. 30,  according to data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Over the past five years, the company has announced
nine pending or completed acquisitions, with an average size of
$6.37 billion and an average premium of 9.7 percent. The biggest
deal was the $25.2 billion purchase of Guidant Corp. in 2005.  Earnings Goals  The company’s goal is to deliver about $5 a share of
increased per-share  earnings  during the next three years, Elliot
said. The company hasn’t had a full-year profit since 2005.  Boston Scientific has 150 new products in its research
pipeline, Elliott said. The company also sees “huge
opportunity” to expand sales in emerging markets, including
China and India, and will invest as much as $40 million through
2011 to develop those markets, Elliott said.  Compound annual sales growth should average about 6 percent
through 2015, with half the growth coming from new markets,
Elliott said.  “For the next two or three years, they are just going to
have to grind it out with the business mix they have,”  Phillip Nalbone , an analyst at Wedbush Securities in San Francisco said
in a telephone interview before today’s meeting.  Boston Scientific will cap its research spending at $1
billion annually, while shifting about 30 percent of the budget
to higher-growing product areas than its current businesses,
Elliott said. The company also aims to reduce manufacturing
costs and to trim about $200 million in “waste” from its
research spending, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net ;
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  