-- Boston Scientific to Buy Full Control of Sadra Medical
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-11-19T22:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/boston-scientific-to-buy-full-control-of-sadra-medical-update3-.html
Boston Scientific Corp.  agreed to
acquire closely held Sadra Medical Inc. for as much as $386
million to compete in the $2.1 billion market for implantable
cardiac valves that don’t require open-heart surgery.  Boston Scientific, the owner of 14 percent of  Sadra , will
pay $193 million upfront, with additional payments of as much as
$193 million for certain milestones, the companies said in a
statement. The purchase fits within a Boston Scientific goal,
announced today by Chief Executive  Ray Elliott , to expand in
asthma, diabetes, obesity and heart valve disorders.  Boston Scientific, based in Natick, Massachusetts, faces an
industrywide slowdown in its two  biggest markets , heart-rhythm
devices and cardiac stents used to open clogged arteries. The
company will cut costs to improve profitability over three
years, and seek to double sales growth to 6 percent to 8 percent
within five years, Elliott said.  “We have quietly, carefully put together a plan to drive
growth,” Elliott said at a meeting with investors and analysts
in New York to describe his long-term strategy.  Boston Scientific rose 21 cents, or 3.2 percent, to $6.77
at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares  declined  17.5 percent in the past 12 months.  Competing Companies  The acquisition of Los Gatos, California-based Sadra puts
Boston Scientific in competition with heart-valve maker  Edwards
Lifesciences Corp ., of Irvine, California, and Minneapolis-based
 Medtronic Inc ., which paid $700 million to acquire CoreValve,
another valve maker, in 2009. Boston Scientific “looked at”
CoreValve prior to Medtronic’s acquisition, Elliott said.  “We didn’t feel that was the winning technology,” he
said. “We feel the deal we did today was the winning
technology.”  Edwards’s new valve, which is implanted using a thin wire
threaded through the arteries, reduced death rates in a study of
patients too sick for open-heart surgery.  Abbott Laboratories ,
based in Abbott Park, Illinois, and New Brunswick, New Jersey-
based  Johnson & Johnson , the world’s largest maker of health
products, are among those seeking deals to enter the market for
transcatheter valves, said  Antoine Papiernik , managing partner
at Sofinnova Partners in Paris, in a telephone interview. While
the Edwards valve is cleared for sale in Europe, it hasn’t been
approved for U.S. use.  Implantable Valve Market  If the ongoing medical trials of Edwards’ valve show it
also works for less severely sick patients, the market for the
new valves may reach $2.1 billion by 2015, said  Larry Biegelsen ,
a Wells Fargo Securities analyst based in New York, in a note to
investors.  The Sadra acquisition will lower Boston Scientific’s
 earnings  by about 1 to 2 cents a year through 2013, then add to
the company’s earnings, according to the statement.  Acquisitions  will continue to be a part of the company’s
growth strategy, Elliott said. It expects to end 2010 with $1.6
billion in cash and to generate $7 billion in cash flow in the
next five years, he said.  Today’s five-hour meeting “will get some investors to take
a fresh look, particularly as they do deals to build a
pipeline,”  Mike Weinstein , an analyst at JPMorgan Securities in
New York, said in an e-mail.  Previous Deals  Boston Scientific had $624 million in cash and short-term
investments as of Sept. 30,  according to data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Over the past five years, the company has announced
nine pending or completed acquisitions, with an average size of
$6.37 billion and an average premium of 9.7 percent. The biggest
deal was the $25.2 billion purchase of Guidant Corp. in 2005.  The company’s goal is to deliver about $5 a share of
increased per-share  earnings  during the next three years, Elliot
said. The company hasn’t had a full-year profit since 2005.  Boston Scientific has 150 new products in its research
pipeline, Elliott said. The company also sees “huge
opportunity” to expand sales in emerging markets, including
China and India, and will invest as much as $40 million through
2011 to develop those markets, Elliott said.  Compound annual sales growth should average about 6 percent
through 2015, with half the growth coming from new markets,
Elliott said.  ‘Too Early’  “It is too early for Boston Scientific to get much credit
for their pipeline growth story,”  Derrick Sung , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein in New York, said in a note to clients. The
growth areas “all sound very promising, but the success rate
for new medical device technologies remains low and Boston
Scientific does not have the track record to give us confidence
that they will necessarily execute successfully.”  Boston Scientific will cap its research spending at $1
billion annually, while shifting about 30 percent of the budget
to higher-growing product areas than its current businesses,
Elliott said. The company also aims to reduce manufacturing
costs and to trim about $200 million in “waste” from its
research spending, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net ;
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  