-- BP Ordered to Return Items by Court in Oil-Trader Case
-- B y   R a j   R a j e n d r a n   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-11-19T16:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/bp-ordered-by-singapore-court-to-return-seized-items-in-oil-trading-case.html
(Corrects to add number of defendants accused of misusing
confidential information in fourth paragraph.)  BP Plc (BP/) ’s former head of fuel oil
trading Quek Chin Thean and four other ex-employees won a
 Singapore  court ruling to set aside a search order, ordering the
oil company to return all the items it took.  The Singapore court ruling, part of an ongoing trial
involving the workers, also ordered a separate hearing on costs
and damages to the five people. A sixth person’s application for
the so-called Anton Piller Order to be set aside wasn’t granted,
according to an e-mailed statement released today by the six
former BP oil trading executives.  “The court’s ruling vindicates their stand that the APOs
were taken out for unlawful reasons, and that the plaintiff had
failed to disclose material facts to the court when the APOs
were obtained in the first place,” they said in the statement.  The London-based oil company sued Quek and five other
former employees. Five of them allegedly wrongfully downloaded
and misused confidential information, including oil-trading
“cheat sheets.” BP accused the group of helping rival Shenzhen
Brightoil Group set up a competing business in Singapore. Quek,
whose official title was head of residues trading, was fired
from BP on July 9.  BP says the latest court order still upholds its request to
protect trade secrets. “The orders reflect the court’s
recognition of the need in this case to protect BP’s
confidential information and to prevent the destruction of
evidence, whilst balancing competing interests,”  Robert Wine , a
spokesman based in London, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Quek Countersues  Quek, Clarence Chang, John Foo and Laura Kuan countersued
BP in August for wrongful dismissal and claimed the company
withheld money owed to them. The group, including former head of
operations Paul John Bradshaw and legal manager Simon Cheong,
has denied misusing any of BP’s trade secrets. They were fired
after the company said it found evidence of wrongdoing. BP
accused five of them, excluding Cheong, of misusing confidential
information.  Brightoil hired the six to help set up a competing business
to trade petroleum products, crude oil and to provide bunker
cargoes, or marine fuel, according to court papers.  BP sued as it sought to stem employee defections which the
former workers partly blamed on a change in bonus payments in
2007. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  said in a Nov. 2
interview that he’s reducing trading after the least-volatile
prices in seven years made buying and selling commodities less
profitable.  The company said today it was not replacing Henrik Wareborn
who left as global head of crude trading as it implements a plan
to restructure the unit around regional managers.  Gulf Spill  The Gulf of Mexico oil spill which led to  a record loss  in
the second quarter may also have prompted some BP workers to
leave, Quek said in earlier court papers. At least 40  employees 
have left BP’s Asian trading operations this year, Quek said.
The unit had employed 200 workers, he said.  Quek, 41, was fired after BP said it found evidence of
wrongdoing, according to those court papers. Quek had submitted
his resignation in May and his last day was supposed to be July
16, he said.  All six of the former employees had accepted a signing
bonus from Brightoil. They denied misusing any of BP’s  trade
secrets .  Quek, who was paid S$18,000 a month and a bonus of $150,000
at BP, was hired to head Brightoil’s  Asia  trading operations,
according to court papers. He said he was dissatisfied with his
pay at BP.  Brightoil, which has a Hong Kong-listed unit, plans to be
“one of the world’s largest trading houses,” with initial
capital of $700 million and 165 staff, according to the filings.  Chinese Demand  Chinese companies including  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (600028) , Asia’s biggest refiner, and Brightoil have been acquiring
assets and adding traders as they expand overseas and seek to
meet demand in the world’s largest energy-consuming nation.  BP said Quek and Cheong lured other colleagues to join
Brightoil, a claim both men have denied. The  oil company  changed
the way bonuses were paid from 2007, creating “unhappiness and
distrust” among traders, Quek said in earlier court documents.  BP obtained search warrants and combed through the homes
and personal electronic equipment of the ex-employees. The oil
company had asked the court for a temporary order preventing the
former workers from using BP’s information.  The search warrants should be set aside and any evidence BP
obtained should not be allowed to be used at trial, the six
former workers said in earlier court documents. The searches,
which included going through some of their spouses’ and
children’s mobile phones and computers, were “extremely
intrusive and oppressive,” the group said.  The oil company has operated in Singapore, Asia’s biggest
oil-trading hub, since 1964 and has 640 employees in the city
state, according to  BP’s website .  The case is BP Singapore Pte v. Quek Chin Thean & Ors
S482/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net 
Raj Rajendran in  London  at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  