-- Burkina Faso’s Compaore Eyes Fourth Term in Presidential Vote
-- B y   E m i l y   B o w e r s   a n d   S i m o n   G o n g o
-- 2010-11-19T11:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/burkina-faso-s-compaore-likely-to-win-a-fourth-term-in-presidential-vote.html
Burkina Faso’s President  Blaise Compaore  will probably extend his 23-year rule in an election on
Nov. 21, expanding policies that boosted gold output this year
in one of the world’s poorest countries.  “Our view is that Compaore will win overwhelmingly again,
but this time probably slightly less than the 80 percent he got
last time,” said Oswald Felli, director of risk assessments at
New York-based DaMina Advisors.  The  landlocked country , Africa’s biggest cotton grower, has
been ruled by Compaore, 59, since he seized power in 1987. The
economy is “heavily dependent” on exports of cotton and gold,
according to the African Development Bank. Growth is projected
to accelerate to 5.5 percent in 2011 from 5.2 percent this year,
the International Monetary Fund said on Oct. 1.  In June, Mines Minister  Abdoulaye Abdoulkader Cisse  said
gold output would surge 60 percent to 20 metric tons this year
and that the country wanted to lure companies including
Colorado-based  Newmont Mining Corp . and Brazil’s  Vale SA .
London-based  Avocet Mining Plc  operates the Inata gold mine in
the country and Canada’s  Endeavour Mining Corp.  controls the
Youga mine.  Cotton production may rise 29 percent to 195,950 metric
tons during the 2010-11 harvest, according to the U.S.
Department of Agriculture.  Stability and Poverty  “Compaore is very likely going to want to continue the
relative stability he has brought to the Burkina Faso economy,”
Felli said in an e-mail yesterday. “He will focus on increasing
gold production by creating attractive incentives for foreign
investors.”  Supporters of the leading opposition candidate, Benewende
Sankara, may protest what they say is Compaore’s inability to
address poverty and unemployment, Felli said.  Burkina Faso is ranked 161st out of 169 countries on the
United Nations’ Human Development Index, which measures life
 expectancy, education and income .  In 2005, the country’s Constitutional Court allowed
Compaore to run for a third election, saying that new limits on
the presidential term were not retroactive, according to the
 U.S. State Department . In August, Compaore’s ruling Congress for
Democracy and Progress party proposed scrapping terms limits.  Compaore will probably continue to play the role of
regional mediator in West Africa, Felli said. He has been
involved in negotiating an end to conflicts in Guinea, Ivory
Coast and Togo.  Voting will open at 6 a.m. and close at 6 p.m. on Nov. 21,
said Borice Edson Yameogo, spokesman of the country’s electoral
commission. Results may be published within five days of the
ballot, he said in a phone interview on Nov. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emily Bowers  in Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 