-- California Sells Build America Bonds at Yields Higher Than Some Corporates
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-11-19T20:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/california-boosts-bond-sale-offering-build-america-yields-above-corporates.html
California  completed its sale of
$3.275 billion of taxable debt today, a day after increasing it
almost 20 percent amid demand for yields that exceed those on
some lower-rated corporate bonds.  The sale included $3.025 billion of federally subsidized
Build America Bonds and $250 million of traditional taxable
general-obligation securities. Coupons were set at 3.25
percentage points more than comparable-maturity Treasuries on
$2.11 billion of the Build America debt due in 30 years,
according to state Treasurer  Bill Lockyer ’s office. That would
mean a yield of about 7.52 percent, based on Treasury rates.  “California looks like a very attractive opportunity,”
 Matt Buscone , a portfolio manager at Breckinridge Capital
Advisors Inc. said yesterday, citing the relative risk and
creditworthiness of the bonds. The Boston-based money manager
oversees $12 billion in assets and bought some of the Build
America debt. “You are picking up a huge amount of spread to
get a good state general-obligation name.”  The Build America program, which provides a 35 percent
reimbursement of interest costs, will end next month if Congress
doesn’t extend it, as proposed by President  Barack Obama .
Issuers rushing to market to beat the year-end expiration helped
spur scheduled sales this week to about $15.5 billion yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  California’s spread to comparable Treasuries is five basis
points less than what investors were quoted yesterday, and the
30-year portion was increased in size from $1.65 billion. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Net Cost  The state’s net cost, after the federal subsidy, is 65.3
basis points lower than the 5.54 percent yield on its 30-year
tax-exempt general-obligation bonds reported yesterday by
Municipal Market Data, said  Tom Dresslar , a Lockyer spokesman.  The  average extra yield  Build America Bonds paid over 30-
year Treasuries was 190 basis points yesterday, according to a
Wells Fargo index. A supply surplus drove the  average yield  on
Build America securities to a seven-month high of 6.22 percent
on Nov. 15, the Wells Fargo index shows. It declined to 6.18
percent yesterday.  Lockyer first increased the size of the entire taxable sale
on Nov. 17 to $2.75 billion from $2 billion as tax-exempt
municipal-bond rates soared amid a glut of supply. It was raised
again yesterday, as Dresslar cited “strong investor demand.”  The California bonds are rated A1 by Moody’s Investors
Service, its fifth-highest grade, and A- by Standard & Poor’s,
its fourth-lowest level for investment-quality securities.  PG&E’s Narrower Spread  Pacific Gas & Electric Co., a unit of  PG&E Corp. , sold $500
million of debt Nov. 16 with bonds maturing in 2040 priced to
yield 118 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries.
The bonds are rated A3 by Moody’s and BBB+ by S&P.  Thirty-year Treasury yields were down about 4 basis points
to  4.24 percent  at 3:56 p.m. in New York, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  When  Time Warner Cable Inc.  sold $1.9 billion of bonds Nov.
9, it paid 5.875 percent for debt maturing in November 2040, or
180 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
Bloomberg data show. Moody’s Investors Service grades Time
Warner Cable Baa2, its second-lowest investment grade, and
Standard & Poor’s ranks the company an equivalent BBB.  California, the biggest issuer of debt in the municipal
market, is scheduled to sell $1 billion of tax-exempt general-
obligation debt and $101 million of taxable lease-revenue bonds
Nov. 23.  Top Rated  Thirty-year top-rated  municipal yields, which move
inversely to prices, were down five basis points to 4.49 percent
at 3:56 p.m. in New York, according to a Bloomberg Valuation
index.  Lockyer yesterday completed the sale of $10 billion in
revenue-anticipation notes, or RANs, a type of short-term
municipal bond that the state offers when cash is low and repays
from later tax collections. He was forced to increase yields 25
basis points to 1.5 percent on notes maturing in May and 1.75
percent for those due in June.  Interest on the notes will cost California taxpayers $172.1
million by the time they mature next year, Dresslar said in a
statement. About $14 million of that resulted from the 25 basis-
point increase in yields, he said.  “There are so many deals out in the market and coming to
the market in the near future, that it’s kind of like choking a
horse,” said  Bud Byrnes , chief executive officer at Encino,
California-based RH Investment Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  