-- Cameron Adviser Young Quits After Saying Britons `Never Had It So Good'
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-11-19T13:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/cameron-adviser-young-quits-after-saying-britons-never-had-it-so-good-.html
David Young , a Conservative lawmaker
who was advising U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  on the
government’s relationship with small businesses, resigned over
“inaccurate and offensive” comments he made about the economy.  Young, who had a desk in the prime minister’s London
office, told the Daily Telegraph newspaper in an interview
published today that the “so-called recession” left most
Britons better off as a result of low interest rates and that in
the future “people will wonder what all the fuss was about.”  “He was very quick to retract completely what he said. It
was unacceptable,” Cameron told reporters in Cornwall,
southwest England. “He is not a member of the government, he
does not speak for the government and I think he’ll be doing a
bit less speaking in the future.” Cameron’s spokesman,  Steve Field , later confirmed television reports that Young had quit.  Young told the Telegraph in a tape-recorded interview over
lunch in a Westminster restaurant that in a 30-million-strong
job market, the loss of 100,000 public-sector jobs a year
foreseen in the government’s spending cuts is “within the
margin of error.” He echoed a 1957 comment by Prime Minister
 Harold Macmillan  on the state of Britain’s economy, saying “for
the vast majority of people in the country today, they have
never had it so good.”  Field told reporters in a regular briefing this morning
that the comments were “inaccurate and offensive,” and
declined to say whether the prime minister had confidence in his
adviser. Young’s resignation was announced two hours later.  The main opposition Labour Party had called on Cameron to
sack Young, saying that he was out of touch with ordinary
people’s experience of the recession.  “It is shameful that the government’s own appointed
ambassador to small business could express such crass,
insensitive and ignorant remarks at a time when small businesses
up and down the country are suffering and the government fails
to get bank lending going,” said Labour business spokesman  John Denham . “David Cameron’s point-blank refusal to fire him shows
how out of touch his government is.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 