-- Cameron Adviser Young Quits After `Never Had It So Good' Economy Comment
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-11-19T17:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/cameron-adviser-young-quits-after-never-had-it-so-good-economy-comment.html
David Young , a Conservative lawmaker
who was advising U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  on the
government’s relationship with small businesses, resigned over
“inaccurate and offensive” comments he made about the economy.  Young, who had a desk in the prime minister’s London
office, told the Daily Telegraph newspaper in an interview
published today that the “so-called recession” left most
Britons better off as a result of low interest rates and that in
the future “people will wonder what all the fuss was about.”  “He was very quick to retract completely what he said. It
was unacceptable,” Cameron told reporters in Cornwall,
southwest England. “He is not a member of the government, he
does not speak for the government and I think he’ll be doing a
bit less speaking in the future.” Cameron’s spokesman,  Steve Field , later confirmed television reports that Young had quit.  Young told the Telegraph in a tape-recorded interview over
lunch in a Westminster restaurant that in a 30-million-strong
labor market, the loss of 100,000 public-sector jobs a year
foreseen in the government’s spending cuts is “within the
margin of error.” He echoed a 1957 comment by Prime Minister
 Harold Macmillan  on the state of Britain’s economy, saying “for
the vast majority of people in the country today, they have
never had it so good.”  Field told reporters in a regular briefing this morning
that the comments were “inaccurate and offensive” and declined
to say whether the prime minister had confidence in his adviser.
Young’s resignation was announced two hours later.  ‘Right to Resign’  “In view of the reaction to the reporting of the interview
I gave earlier this week I feel that it would be right to resign
forthwith from my position as your adviser,” Young said in a
letter to Cameron, e-mailed by his office. “You should know
that you will continue to have my support in every way.”  The main opposition Labour Party had called on Cameron to
dismiss Young, a member of the upper House of Lords, saying that
he was out of touch with ordinary people’s experience of the
recession.  “It is shameful that the government’s own appointed
ambassador to small business could express such crass,
insensitive and ignorant remarks at a time when small businesses
up and down the country are suffering and the government fails
to get bank lending going,” said Labour business spokesman  John Denham . “David Cameron’s point-blank refusal to fire him shows
how out of touch his government is.”  A close adviser of former Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher ,
Young was on the management board of the Centre for Policy
Studies, a research group founded by Thatcher, and served in her
government as secretary of state for employment between 1985 and
1987 and for trade and industry between 1987 and 1989.  “In this sort of environment people have to be very
careful about the words they choose, people are going through a
great deal of hardship at the moment,” Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  told Sky News television. “I’m sorry he said what he said
and sorry he’s gone, because I’m a great admirer of his.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 