-- Camilla `Could' Become Queen, U.K.'s Prince Charles Tells NBC's `Dateline'
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-11-19T18:50:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/camilla-could-become-queen-prince-charles-tells-nbc-network-in-interview.html
Prince Charles  said that his wife
 Camilla  could become queen if he becomes king, according to
extracts of an interview to be broadcast on NBC tonight.  Charles, 62, who married Camilla in Windsor in 2005, eight
years after the death of his first wife,  Diana , has not
previously spoken publicly about what her status will be if he
becomes king. She became Duchess of Cornwall when they married.  Asked whether the duchess, 63, will become queen, Charles
said, “You know, I mean, we’ll see and I don’t know if I’ll --
if I’ll still be alive, but that -- that could be,” according
to extracts of the interview for  NBC’s “Dateline”  show
released by the network.  Three weeks before Charles and Camilla married, the   U.K.
government said  the marriage wouldn’t be “morganatic,” a term
that describes unions between people of unequal rank in which
the husband’s titles aren’t shared with the wife or passed on to
any children. That leaves open the possibility she would be
queen.  Charles’s marriage to Diana was dissolved in 1996, a year
before she died. In 1995, Diana had blamed Camilla for the
breakup, telling BBC television’s  “Panorama”  program that
“there were three of us in this marriage, so it was a bit
crowded.” In the interview she acknowledged that she would
never be queen, saying instead, “I’d like to be a queen of
people’s hearts.”  Son’s Engagement  The interview is being aired three days after the prince
announced the engagement of William, his eldest son, to  Kate Middleton . The two will marry in the middle of next year.  The British throne passes to children, not spouses, so
 Queen Elizabeth II  will be succeeded by Charles, or, if he dies
before her, William.  William’s brother, Harry, is currently third in line,
though he will lose his place to any children William and Kate
have.  During the NBC interview, Charles broke with his previous
reticence on the subject of the succession and talked about what
might happen on the death of his mother, who has been the
monarch since 1952.  “It is better not to think too much about it. Except, you
know obviously, if it comes, then you have to deal with it,” he
said. “I think about it a bit, but it’s much better not -- this
is something that -- you know, if it comes to it, and
regrettably, it comes as the result of the death of your parent
which is, you know, not so nice, to say the least.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 