-- Canada's Doctors Seek to Force Lawmakers' Focus on Looming Health Crisis
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-11-19T14:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/canada-s-doctors-seek-to-force-lawmakers-focus-on-looming-health-crisis.html
Canadian physicians are seeking to
force lawmaker attention on what they say is a looming crisis in
the country’s universal health-care system, the head of the
country’s medical association said.  “There’s a crisis coming,” Jeff Turnbull, president of
the Canadian Medial Association and chief of staff of The Ottawa
Hospital, said in an interview in Bloomberg News’ Ottawa bureau.
“Most people see it already arriving and see it getting worse,
but we’re not courageous in dealing with it.”  While the U.S. implemented President  Barack Obama ’s $940
billion health-care legislation -- the most sweeping changes to
that nation’s medical system since the Medicare program for the
elderly was created in 1965 -- to extend coverage to 32 million
uninsured Americans and curb costs, Canada hasn’t made major
changes since 1968 with the introduction of the  national health
insurance system.   Now, with almost as many Canadians saying they are
concerned about health care as they are about the economy,
Turnbull, 59, said doctors will pressure political parties and
groups across the country to make health care the main issue in
the next election. The  CMA , an umbrella organization for
doctors’ associations with 73,000 members that does advocacy,  
released  a report on possible improvements in August.  “We have to put this front and center as an issue,”
Turnbull said. “We’re going to go to each community and try to
engage all of the different partners.”  Among the CMA’s suggestions are moves to collect more data
on how health-care funds are spent, implement a national drug-
insurance system, provide more long-term facilities and change
the way hospitals are funded.  Rising Costs  Health-care costs are soaring and Ontario Finance Minister
 Dwight Duncan  said in his March 25  budget speech  they could
account for 70 percent of his province’s spending by 2022, from
46 percent today and 32 percent 20 years ago.  The  Ottawa Hospital  has had to cancel 500 surgeries so far
this year, which would have been unfathomable 10 years ago,
Turnbull said.  The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
said in a  September report  on Canada that the country could
boost efficiency by allowing more private companies to offer
insurance and services. Turnbull said the CMA isn’t suggesting
more private clinics because the idea “stops the conversation”
for politicians. Instead, he is seeking a debate on the
country’s needs and how they can be met.  Near Bottom  Of twelve countries tracked by the  OECD , Canada ranks third
from the bottom in terms of hospital beds per 1,000 people with
3.5, compared with 8.2 for Germany and 13.8 for Japan. In terms
of magnetic resonance imaging units per 1,000 people, Canada
ranks fourth from the bottom with 6.7 units, relative to Japan’s
43.1 and the U.S.’s 25.9.  While health has been Canadian voters’ top or second-top
priority since at least 2002, politicians have tended to ignore
it because it’s a complex issue with no obvious payoff,  Nik Nanos , president of Ottawa-based Nanos Research.  Some 22 percent of 1,017 people polled Nov. 1-5 said health
care is their main concern, compared with 24 percent who said
it’s the economy, Nanos’s latest  poll  shows. The poll has a 3.1
percentage point margin of error.  “Politicians have to bite the bullet and begin to talk
about the issue,” said  Michael Bliss , professor emeritus of
history at the University of Toronto. “We tend to get hung up
on the issue of privatization and private medicine in Canada and
I don’t think that should be  the issue  -- the issue should be
how to keep funding national health insurance.”  National Debate  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said as recently  as Nov. 9 
the economy is his government’s top priority. A 2004 agreement
on health transfers between Canada and its provinces is set to
expire in 2014, providing an opportunity for a national debate,
Turnbull said.  Turnbull said there are signs politicians are starting to
pay attention. Former Prime Minister  Brian Mulroney  last month
called for an “adult” discussion about health care and called
for a national commission. The “fundamental assumptions” on
which Medicare was based 50 years ago “have changed and we need
to adapt,” he said in a speech to the Canadian Council of Chief
Executives in Montreal.  Nanos said politicians may be afraid of wading into a
debate on whether private health care should have a bigger role
and similar proposals because Canadians are deeply attached to
the symbol of a  publicly funded and universal system .  “Health care spending is going to be a main area of
reform, because if nothing changes and the system stays as it
is, it’s going to consume enormous amounts of resources,” said
 Carlos Leitao , chief economist with Laurentian Bank Securities
Inc. in Montreal. “We can poke all kinds of fun at our American
neighbors, but at least they did discuss the issue of health-
care spending” in the past year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 