-- Central Bankers Back Bernanke Whose Critics Haven't Been There
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-11-19T05:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/central-bankers-back-bernanke-whose-critics-haven-t-been-there-done-that.html
The 23 people who penned the missive
to Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this week telling
him to arrest his expansion of monetary stimulus have something
in common: They’ve never been in his position.  The letter, which said the Fed’s Nov. 3 decision to buy
$600 billion of Treasuries will cause a surge in inflation, was
signed by former Republican government officials, economists,
columnists and even  Dan Senor , a former spokesman for the U.S.
military effort in Iraq. By contrast, many of the voices in
defense of Bernanke have central banking on their resumes, with
former Fed vice chairman  Alan Blinder , former Bank of England
policy maker  David Blanchflower  and Bank of Israel Governor
 Stanley Fischer  all voicing support.  The rhetoric from critics without monetary-policy
experience risks politicizing the Fed and interfering with its
strategy to jumpstart an economic recovery that’s faltering,
said  John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s Capital Markets
Group in New York. It helped prompt a call from Republican
lawmakers to strip the central bank of its responsibility for
full employment at a time when the  jobless rate  has held at or
above 9.4 percent since May 2009.  “It’s become overly politicized for reasons that escape
me,” Lonski said. “They’re running the risk of having the
criticism of quantitative easing backfire if it turns out that
financial markets go into another dive and some say that’s
because of strident criticism. The criticism also has the effect
of bringing into play the possibility the Fed might have to
reverse course.”  ‘More Diverse Backgrounds’  The effort would have benefited from support by people with
“more diverse backgrounds,” such as central bankers and
business leaders who “actually create jobs,” Lonski said.  Signers of the letter, published in the New York Times and
Wall Street Journal this week, said they agreed with Bernanke’s
Nov. 4 statement that the Fed “cannot solve all the economy’s
problems on its own.” The group, whose members include Weekly
Standard Editor  William Kristol  and former Congressional Budget
Office Director  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , said “the planned asset
purchases risk currency debasement and inflation.”  Fiscal and regulatory policies “must take precedence”
over monetary easing in stimulating growth, said the letter,
which was also signed by  Paul Singer , founder of hedge-fund firm
 Elliott Management Corp.  and a top Republican donor who raised
funds for presidential candidates  George W. Bush  and  Rudolph Giuliani . Stanford University Professor  John Taylor , creator of
a monetary-policy formula used by the Fed, also signed the
letter. He was an undersecretary of the Treasury during George
W. Bush’s presidency.  Bush Chief of Staff  Before founding the Weekly Standard magazine in 1995,
Kristol served as chief of staff to Vice President  Dan Quayle 
during  George H.W. Bush ’s presidency and led the Project for the
Republican Future. Holtz-Eakin is president of the American
Action Forum and was an economic adviser to Obama’s 2008
Republican opponent, Arizona Senator  John McCain .  Two signers,  Kevin Hassett  and  Amity Shlaes , are columnists
for Bloomberg News. Hassett, director of economic-policy studies
at the American Enterprise Institute, was also an adviser to
Senator McCain during the 2008 election and a former Fed
economist. Shlaes, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign
Relations, was previously a columnist for the Financial Times
and a member of the Wall Street Journal’s editorial board.  “I find the criticism just completely incoherent,”  Mark Gertler , a professor of economics at New York University, said,
adding he supports “reasoned” debates of the Fed’s policies.  Create Inflation  “The signatories of the letter are arguing that, on the
one hand, it’s not going to do much to affect the real economy,
and on the other hand, it’s going to create a lot of inflation,
and you can’t have one without the other,” said Gertler, who
pioneered research with Bernanke that showed how financial
crises can accelerate  economic slumps . “It would be comical if
it wasn’t serious.”  The group’s objection was “that the Fed is dramatically
expanding its size at a time when there’s not an emergency in
the economy or the financial system to justify that expansion,”
said  David Malpass , one of the signatories and a former Bear
Stearns Cos. chief economist who ran as a Republican candidate
in New York for U.S. senator this year.  While the signers had “a huge amount of monetary-policy
experience,” it lacked anyone who has actually decided on
policy because “the Fed is a relatively closed club,” Malpass
said. “That’s part of the problem. It’s very rare for people
who have voted for the Fed to ever publicly criticize the Fed.”  ‘Dangerous Practice’  The criticism “doesn’t make any sense, shows no practical
understanding of how the economy works or how monetary-policy
makers make their decisions,” Blanchflower, a professor at
Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire, said in a Nov. 15
Bloomberg television interview. It’s “dangerous politics
playing with an economy that’s fragile.”  While tax, spending and regulatory reforms would
“absolutely” be beneficial, they aren’t “going to happen for
a very long time,” Blanchflower said. “So the Fed is the only
show in town.”  Stocks have climbed since Bernanke said on Aug. 27 that the
Fed would “do all that it can,” which fueled speculation about
additional monetary stimulus. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  of
stocks has returned 13 percent, while the yield on the 2-year
 Treasury note  has fallen to 0.5 percent from 0.55 percent.  Lack of Diversity  Martin Feldstein , a professor at Harvard University in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, said he agrees with the sentiment of
the letter, though he didn’t sign it. Feldstein, who was
chairman of President  Ronald Reagan ’s Council of Economic
Advisers, has a “general policy” against signing group
letters, and the lack of diversity among the signatories worried
him, he said in a Nov. 15 Bloomberg Television interview.  “I’m a little concerned that the people who signed this
letter appear to be all Republicans,” Feldstein said. “I think
it would have been better if they had made it more bipartisan.”  Some Republicans in Congress advocate curbing the Fed’s
responsibilities. Senator  Bob Corker  of Tennessee, who serves on
the Banking Committee, Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin,
who will lead the House Budget Committee in January, and
Representative  Mike Pence  of Indiana, chairman of the House
Republican Conference, have all said they favor eliminating the
Fed’s goal of full employment, leaving it to focus on price
stability.  Financial Crisis  Hostility toward the Fed is strong among Republican voters
in the aftermath of the financial crisis, with 41 percent
believing it should be abolished or radically overhauled,
according to a Bloomberg National Poll conducted Oct. 7-10.
Fifty-five percent of Tea Party followers, a collection of
activists who want to curb government power, support its
overhaul or elimination, the poll showed.  “There are people from all political persuasions who are
very skeptical of the expansion of the Fed’s  balance sheet ,”
Malpass said. The lack of political diversity among the
signatories was a “coincidence of who was available to sign it
as we were putting it together. It’s incorrect to say the letter
politicized the issue.”  The Fed was  founded  in 1913. While Congress sets its
mandate, politicians let it determine how to achieve those goals
through monetary policy and allow it to resolve differences of
opinion among its seven board members and  12 Reserve Bank 
presidents.  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher , who doesn’t have a
vote on the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee this
year, said Nov. 8 in San Antonio that quantitative easing may be
the “wrong medicine.” Fed Governor  Kevin Warsh , who voted for
the action, said Nov. 8 in New York that the bond purchases may
fail to help the economy.  Federal Bailouts  The Fed might have done a better job explaining how the
expansion of monetary policy differs from federal bailouts of
financial institutions, as the two actions “got conflated,”
St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said Nov. 17.  Officials abroad have also spoken out against the U.S.
central bank, with German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
calling the asset-purchase program “clueless” and suggesting
it’s designed to erode the value of the U.S. dollar.  Bank of Israel’s Fischer has been supportive, saying the
criticism is “fundamentally misplaced.” The latest round of
monetary stimulus is “a move which is healthy for the global
economy,” Fischer said in a Nov. 15 conference call with
reporters. “I much prefer ‘Situation A,’ with U.S. growth and a
slightly weaker dollar, to ‘Situation B,’ slower U.S. growth and
a stronger dollar.”  ‘Radical Departure’  Blinder, a professor at Princeton University in New Jersey,
dismissed charges that quantitative easing is “a radical
departure” and said in a Nov. 16 Bloomberg Television interview
that he is more worried about inflation being too low than too
high.  The consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent in October,
less than economists forecast, after a 0.1 percent rise the
prior month, the Labor Department said Nov. 17 in Washington.
Excluding food and fuel, so-called core costs rose 0.6 percent
from October 2009, the smallest gain on record.  Bernanke traveled to Capitol Hill Nov. 17 for a closed-door
session with about 11 members of the Senate Banking Committee to
defend monetary easing. He told the group that the program would
create jobs while keeping inflation under control.  The four top Republicans in Congress also wrote Bernanke to
express “deep concerns” over the bond purchases. The letter
was signed by House Republican leader  John Boehner  of Ohio,
House Republican Whip  Eric Cantor  of Virginia, Senate Republican
leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, and Senate Republican Whip
 Jon Kyl  of Arizona.  “There is plenty for the new Congress to do as it is, why
add to their workload by taking on the potential long-term
inflation threat of quantitative easing?” Lonski said. “It
doesn’t seem to make a great deal of sense to get worked up over
this particular issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  