-- Centerra Says Mongolia Planning to Revoke Four of its Gold Mining Permits
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2010-11-19T05:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/centerra-says-may-be-hit-as-mongolia-plans-to-revoke-permits.html
Centerra Gold Inc. , a Canadian
producer of the metal, may lose four gold mining licenses in
Mongolia as the nation’s government plans to revoke permits on
environmental concerns.  The permits are “not material to the company” and its
principle Gatsuurt field is not on the list of the 254 alluvial
gold mining licenses Mongolia will cull, Toronto-based Centerra
said late yesterday in a Marketwire statement. The stock closed
down 7.3 percent. It has gained 49 percent in Toronto trading
since the beginning of the year.  Mongolia has decided to suspend the activities of 1,782
license holders in wooded and river basin areas in line with a
2009 Water and Forest Law, the nation’s news.mn news portal
reported late yesterday, citing Mineral Resources Minister
 Dashdorj Zorigt . Gold, tin, and iron ore license holders may be
affected and their names will be announced in the media, it said.  Mongolia, which has about 4,000 mining license holders,
will assess compensation claims based on taxes, expenses
incurred, environmental costs and income from the mining
operations, the news portal reported. The largest mines are in
Bayangol, near the Tumurt, and in Narantolgoi, near Gatsuurt in
Selenge Aimag, news.mn said.  Centerra said it continues to talk with the Mongolian
government to resolve uncertainty over the implementation of the
Water and Forest Law and to get the approval for the
commissioning of its Gatsuurt hardrock project. Its main Boroo
mine permits are not subject to the law, Centerra said.  Centerra was spun off from Cameco Corp., the world’s
second-biggest uranium producer, in June 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yuriy Humber  in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  