-- China Wealth Fund Holds 74 Million General Growth Shares After Bankruptcy
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2010-11-19T22:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/china-investment-corp-holds-74-million-general-growth-shares-warrants.html
China’s sovereign wealth fund, in a
bet that American real estate and retail spending will recover,
has acquired a 7.4 percent stake in  General Growth Properties
Inc. , the second-largest U.S. mall owner.  China Investment Corp. holds 59.3 million common shares and
warrants to buy an additional 14.7 million shares, according to
a Form 4 filed yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The Future Fund Board of Guardians, a manager for
Australian government pension funds, holds a 6.4 percent stake
in Chicago-based General Growth, documents show.  U.S. consumer spending on Chinese-made apparel and consumer
electronics helps drive the trade gap between the two countries,
which rose 21 percent to $201.2 billion through the first 10
months of this year. China is using foreign direct investments
to capture some of the profits from overseas sales of
merchandise that its factories churn out for companies such as
Apple Inc., said  Dan Rosen , principal at Rhodium Group, a New
York-based research firm that specializes in China.  “In addition to making goods, China is getting closer to
retailing,” Rosen said today in a telephone interview. “The
margins that the Chinese enjoy for putting goods together are
tiny compared to the profit margins of the Wal-Marts of the
world.”  General Growth exited the largest real estate bankruptcy in
U.S. history on Nov. 9. As part of the restructuring, it spun
off Howard Hughes Corp., an owner of master-planned communities
and other properties, as a separate publicly traded company.  Brookfield Entities  China Investment and Australia’s Future Fund hold their
stakes in General Growth through entities created by  Brookfield
Asset Management Inc. , a Toronto-based company founded by
members of Canada’s Bronfman family. Brookfield and its clients
invested about $2.31 billion in the mall unit through the
bankruptcy reorganization, with an additional $200 million
devoted to Howard Hughes Corp.  Hugh Zwieg, a General Growth officer, didn’t return a
telephone call seeking comment. Andrew Willis, a spokesman for
Brookfield, declined to comment on China Investment’s
affiliation with the money-management firm.  China Investment, with about $300 billion under management,
was created to generate higher returns from the nation’s
foreign-exchange reserves. China ranks as the world’s largest
holder of U.S. Treasuries, with $883.5 billion of the securities
as of Sept. 30, according to the U.S. Treasury Department.  ‘Attractive Alternative’  “High-quality U.S. commercial real estate is an attractive
alternative for sovereign wealth funds to invest American
dollars,” said  Alex Avery , a real estate industry analyst at
CIBC World Markets Inc. in Toronto. “You get the safe-haven
currency but you don’t have to deal with the low yields of
Treasuries.”  China Investment committed about $800 million to the $4.7
billion global property fund that Morgan Stanley announced in
June, according to Private Equity Real Estate. The fund had also
been negotiating to buy some of Harvard University’s real estate
holdings for several hundred million dollars. That transaction
fell through, a person briefed on the matter said in September.  Brookfield formed a $5.5 billion turnaround real estate
group in August 2009 to invest in distressed commercial real
estate, according to Willis. Under the terms of the arrangement,
members had the final say over whether their money was invested
in various opportunities identified by the Canadian money
manager.  Wealth Funds  When a bidding war to invest in General Growth broke out
earlier this year, rival suitors sought financial support from
wealth funds in the Middle East and Asia, the Financial Times
reported in March. At the time, Brookfield said it might seek
financing from investors in the turnaround group including China
Investment, the Future Fund and Government of Singapore
Investment Corp., the newspaper said.  According to filings, Brookfield received 230.9 million
General Growth shares, along with 57.5 million warrants in
return for its investment. About a quarter of the stake was
allocated to China’s sovereign wealth fund, with 64.4 million
shares and warrants going to the Future Fund Board of Guardians,
which helps oversee about $69 billion of pension assets for the
Australian government.  Brookfield was formed by Peter and  Edward Bronfman  in 1954
after the two brothers cashed out their stake in Seagram Co.
Ltd., a Montreal-based spirits company that was ultimately
acquired by Vivendi SA in 2000 from other members of the
Bronfman family. Brookfield, which specializes in real estate,
power and infrastructure investments, has about $113 billion in
assets under management, including $20 billion from sovereign
wealth and pension funds, Willis said.  General Growth rose 42 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $15.10 at
4:15 p.m. in  New York Stock Exchange  composite trading. The
company issued 135 million shares earlier this week at $14.75
each.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Miles Weiss  in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 