-- China Raises Bank Reserve Ratios to Limit Price Risks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-19T13:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/china-tells-banks-to-set-aside-larger-reserves-to-drain-cash-from-economy.html
China ordered banks to set aside
larger reserves for the second time in two weeks, draining cash
from the financial system to limit inflation and asset-bubble
risks in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  The  requirement  will increase 50 basis points starting Nov.
29, the central bank said on its website today. The aim is to
step up liquidity management and “appropriately control”
credit and loans, it said.  Speculation of an imminent increase in interest rates to
counter inflation helped to drive the biggest sell-off in
China’s benchmark stock index since May over the past two weeks.
Officials are seeking to rein in the money supply as expanded
U.S. stimulus threatens to spur capital flows into Asia and
after unprecedented bank lending in China.  “Beijing seems increasingly concerned about the inflation
outlook and willing to use a wide range of policy tools,” said
 Brian Jackson , an emerging markets strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada in Hong Kong. He sees an interest-rate increase by year-
end “with more to come in 2011” and accelerated appreciation
in the yuan against the dollar.  Stocks in Europe and U.S. index futures fell as China added
to efforts to limit the threat from the fastest inflation in two
years. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index sank 1.1 percent at 7:30 a.m.
in New York. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.6
percent.  Inflows of Cash  Before the announcement, the  Shanghai Composite Index  rose
0.8 percent, paring this week’s decline to 3.2 percent after a
4.6 percent slide last week.  Economies from Taiwan to Brazil have taken steps to counter
inflows of speculative money as the U.S. Federal Reserve expands
stimulus by buying $600 billion of Treasuries. Hong Kong’s
government today cited “hot money” flows when announcing
measures aimed at preventing a housing bubble. In Frankfurt, Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said American policies target
“robust” U.S. growth that will support the global recovery.  China’s restraints on the yuan, up less than 3 percent
since a peg to the dollar was scrapped in June, add to the
build-up of cash in the economy set to overtake Japan as the
world’s second-biggest. The currency closed at 6.6395 per dollar
in Shanghai today.  The Chinese central bank has “decided to fight
forcefully” against the effects of the Fed’s easing, said  Qu Hongbin , co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC Holdings Plc
in Hong Kong. He said reserve ratios may increase by at least
another 2 percentage points in the next year.  Interest-Rate Forecasts  Today’s increase in the proportion of deposits that lenders
are required to set aside was the fifth announced by the central
bank this year.  The requirements will rise to 18 percent for the nation’s
biggest banks, according to Bloomberg data based on central bank
statements. Individual lenders have had additional increases,
according to people familiar with those changes.  China’s big four, Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd., Bank of China Ltd., China Construction Bank Corp. and
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. face ratios of 18.5 percent,
according to a Bank of America-Merrill Lynch note.  China’s cabinet this week unveiled a package of anti-
inflation measures including crackdowns on speculation in
agricultural products and a threat of price caps on “daily
necessities.”  Consumer prices  jumped 4.4 percent in October
from a year earlier on food and commodity costs.  Draining Cash  Analysts at nine banks surveyed this week by Bloomberg News
predicted the People’s Bank of China will add to last month’s
rate rise, the first since 2007, by year-end. Today’s move may
have delayed a rate increase until December, HSBC’s Qu said.  The reserve-ratio move will drain about 350 billion yuan
($53 billion) from the financial system, Bank of America-Merrill
Lynch estimates. In addition to using rates and reserve
requirements to control credit growth, officials may set a lower
target for new loans in 2011 than this year’s 7.5 trillion yuan
($1.1 trillion), according to analysts at banks including UBS AG.  China’s biggest lenders may weather tighter controls after
replenishing capital and reporting gains in profit. ICBC, the
world’s largest lender by market value, last month posted a 27
percent gain in third-quarter profit.  Signs that the Chinese economy is maintaining momentum may
have given policy makers the confidence to keep tightening.
 Manufacturing growth  accelerated last month and the trade
surplus rose to $27 billion. The World Bank this month raised
its 2010 growth forecast for China to 10 percent.  -- Li Yanping ,  Sophie Leung , with assistance from  Belinda Cao ,
 Zhang Dingmin , Baizhen Chua. Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  John Liu .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  