-- China to Compete With U.S., Canada in Asian Market for Soybean Foods
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2010-11-19T07:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/china-s-non-modified-soybeans-to-compete-with-u-s-canada-in-asian-market.html
China, the largest soybean importer,
may boost exports of soybeans for food to other Asian countries,
competing with the U.S. and Canada, as food makers seek non-
genetically modified crops, an industry group said.  China may ship surplus supply as non-GMO beans are sold at
premiums over modified crops in the international market, Paul
Burke, director for marketing and industry relations at the U.S.
Soybean Export Council, said in an interview in Tokyo today.
Premiums may increase because of reduced planting of traditional
varieties in the U.S., the largest exporter.  Global consumption of soybeans for food is estimated at 15
million metric tons for the 2010-2011 year, of which 95 percent
will be consumed in Asia, Burke said. China represents about 60
percent of total demand and almost all soybeans for food
consumed there are grown domestically, he said.  “In the state reserves they have plenty of non-GMO
soybeans available all the time,” Burke said. “Rising premiums,
the availability of supply and the proximity to customers” may
encourage China to raise soybean exports as farmers in the
nation grow conventional soybean varieties and can supply
products at cheaper prices, he said.  Buyers in Japan, South Korea and European nations pay
premiums for non-GMO soybeans. The premiums depend on the types
of product, Burke said. Buyers pay premiums of about $2 a bushel
for soybeans used to make traditional Japanese tofu, he said.  Food companies such as Japanese soy-sauce maker Kikkoman
Corp. have said they are reluctant to use genetically modified
crops because of consumers’ food safety concerns.  China Exports  China exported about 350,000 tons of soybeans for food to
buyers including Japan and South Korea in the 2008-2009 year,
Burke said. China’s soybean imports may rise 27 percent to more
than 54 million tons this year, the National Grain and Oils
Information Center said in an e-mailed statement on Nov. 17.  China’s growing demand for soybeans used in oil and feed
production helped futures in Chicago rally 18 percent this year.  Higher prices of soybeans for oil and feed, which are
mostly genetically modified varieties, will likely necessitate
higher premiums for non-GMO beans as farmers in the U.S.
increase planting of modified crops that are higher-yielding and
easier to grow, Burke said.  Indonesia is the largest consumer of soybeans for food
after China, at 2.36 million tons in the 2010-2011 year, Burke
said. Japan is the third-largest at 1.04 million tons.  Southeast Asian countries, which represent about 15 percent
of global consumption, are expected to lead demand growth as
their populations and economies grow, Burke said.  Demand will also grow as food manufacturers in Southeast
Asia are raising exports of soybean-based products to Europe,
Australia and New Zealand “where having non-GMO soy food
products is very important,” Burke said.  January-delivery soybeans lost 0.8 percent to $12.325 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 2:56 p.m. Tokyo time.
The price reached a two-year high of $13.485 on Nov. 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  