-- China Will `Inevitably' Raise Rates as Wen Battles Prices, Economists Say
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-19T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/china-will-inevitably-raise-rates-as-wen-battles-prices-economists-say.html
China’s reserve-ratio increases for
banks and threats of price controls on essential goods are
likely to prove insufficient to tame  inflation , and the central
bank will have to raise interest rates further, economists said.  The People’s Bank of China yesterday ordered a 50 basis
point increase in the amount of money that lenders must set
aside, two days after the cabinet announced measures to tackle
inflation. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Stocks and oil fell on the central bank announcement,
highlighting concern that Chinese efforts to cool the nation’s
fastest rise in consumer prices in two years may cause growth to
falter. Analysts at nine banks surveyed this week by Bloomberg
News predicted the central bank will add to last month’s rate
rise, the first since 2007, by year-end.  “Monetary policy is being tightened, as it should be, and
a rate hike will follow sooner rather than later,” said  Shen Jianguang , a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho Securities Asia
Ltd. who formerly worked for the International Monetary Fund and
the European Central Bank. The next move “inevitably” will be
on rates, Shen said.  China’s benchmark stock index has had its biggest two-week
decline since May amid concern that monetary tightening will
hamper spending in the fastest-growing major economy. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the MSCI World Index slipped
after yesterday’s announcement. The  Shanghai Composite Index 
earlier closed 0.8 percent higher, paring its weekly decline to
3.2 percent.  Wen’s Meeting  Concern that rising consumer prices will undermine the
economy spurred Premier  Wen Jiabao  to hold a cabinet meeting on
the issue this week. The measures contemplated by the State
Council range from a crackdown on speculation in agricultural
goods to the imposition of price caps on “daily necessities”
if needed.  The meeting came amid concern at the threat increased food
costs pose to the poorest people in the world’s most populous
nation. More than 81 million people in disaster-affected areas
may need food assistance from the government this winter, the
Ministry of Civil Affairs said on its website on Nov. 18.  At Societe Generale, Hong Kong-based economist  Yao Wei  said
this week that China’s “old-fashioned price stabilization
policies” will not be enough to reduce the case for monetary
tightening. The possibility of “more interest-rate hikes by the
year-end remains relatively high,” she said.  Controlling Lending  The increase in banks’ reserve requirements, effective Nov.
29, was the second announced in two weeks. The aim is to step up
liquidity management and “appropriately control” credit and
loans, the central bank said on its website.  China’s  inflation rate  reached 4.4 percent in October,
exceeding economists’ forecasts. Standard Chartered Plc analysts
yesterday lifted their projection for the consumer price index
for next year to an average of 5.5 percent, from about 3.2
percent for 2010.  While vegetable costs have helped to drive Chinese
inflation higher this year, officials need to use tools such as
interest rates to “prevent food inflation from spreading to the
general economy,”  Wang Tao , a Beijing-based economist for UBS
AG. said yesterday.  Inflows of money from the trade surplus, foreign direct
investment, and investors betting on gains by the yuan threaten
to propel consumer prices after unprecedented lending by banks
flooded the economy with cash from late 2008.  Rents, Wage Costs  Standard Chartered, HSBC Holdings Plc, BNP Paribas SA,
Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, Mizuho, Royal Bank of
Canada, UBS, and Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
predict that the central bank will add this year to the quarter-
point increases that took the benchmark one-year  lending rate  to
5.56 percent and the one-year deposit rate to 2.5 percent.  “Inflation is showing up in food most obviously, but also
in rents, service sector wages, and non-food commodities,”
analysts including  Stephen Green , head of research for Greater
China at Standard Chartered, wrote in a report yesterday. The
bank anticipates a rate increase by Dec. 31 and three more by
June 30.  Across Asia, China’s inflation compares with deflation in
Japan and, at the other extreme, a 9.8 percent rate in India. In
the U.S., consumer prices rose 1.2 percent last month from a
year earlier.  Besides possible price caps, the State Council’s plans to
rein in prices include selling state food reserves.  “Price intervention could be counter-productive because it
may cause panic and worsen inflation expectations,” said  Liu Li-Gang , a Hong Kong-based economist at ANZ who previously
worked at the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and World Bank.  Excess liquidity is the “root of the problem” in China,
 Tao Dong , a Credit Suisse Group AG economist in Hong Kong said
this week.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  