-- China National Nuclear Ex-Chief Jailed for Accepting Bribes, Xinhua Says
-- B y   J o h n   D u c e
-- 2010-11-19T06:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/china-national-nuclear-ex-chief-jailed-for-accepting-bribes-xinhua-says.html
China National Nuclear Corp.’s
former general manager,  Kang Rixin , has been jailed for life for
corruption and accepting $1 million in bribes, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported.  Kang, 57, was convicted of taking 6.6 million yuan
($994,000) in kickbacks between 2004 and 2009, abuse of power
and enabling profit for others, Xinhua  said , citing a court
judgment in Beijing today. He was given a lighter sentence
because he cooperated with the authorities and returned the
money he had taken, Xinhua said.  Kang’s case is the latest high-profile conviction as
China’s governing Communist Party attempts to stamp out
corruption. The sentencing also comes as the world’s biggest
polluting country expands its nuclear capacity to reduce its
reliance on more polluting coal and oil.  “This case hasn’t had any material impact on China’s
nuclear program,” said Min Li, an energy analyst at Yuanta
Securities HK Co. “It’s been known about for some time and
people are aware that it’s the government which is the key
figure in developing the nuclear industry.”  State-owned China National Nuclear was established from the
former Ministry of Nuclear Industry and has more than 100
subsidiaries engaged in the production of nuclear power fuel and
military nuclear programs, according to the company’s website.  China’s nuclear power capacity may reach 80 gigawatts by
2020, vice secretary general of the nation’s nuclear energy
association Xu Yuming said in May. China now has about nine
gigawatts of nuclear generating capacity.  Eradicating Corruption  Kang became general manager of the nation’s biggest
operator of nuclear reactors in September 2003 and was also a
member of the Communist Party’s top Central Committee, Xinhua
 reported  in January. Kang came under investigation for “grave
violations of discipline” in August 2009, Xinhua said.  Born in 1953 in Datong in the northern province of Shanxi,
Kang joined the Communist Party in 1982, according to a
biography on the People’s Daily website.  Other high-ranking officials and businessmen convicted of
corruption in China include former drug regulator,  Zheng Xiaoyu ,
who was executed in 2007 after he was convicted of taking bribes
to approve medicines, while  Chen Liangyu  was fired as Shanghai’s
Communist party boss in 2006 on graft charges.  Huang Guangyu, the founder of China’s biggest appliance
chain Gome Electrical Appliances Holdings Ltd., was jailed in
May for 14 years for graft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net  