-- Chinese Government Agencies Pledge Effort to Crack Down on Insider Trading
-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 ]   E v a   W o o   [ ] .   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 ]   J o h n   L i u   [ ]
-- 2010-11-19T05:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/chinese-agencies-pledge-effort-to-crack-down-on-insider-trading.html
Five Chinese government agencies
jointly pledged to crack down on insider trading, bolstering the
securities regulator’s efforts to “sustain market order” and
“protect investors.”  China’s cabinet, the State Council, issued a statement late
yesterday to outline the roles of agencies including the  China
Securities Regulatory Commission , the State-owned Assets
Supervision Administration Commission and the Ministry of Public
Security in investigations of insider trading. The statement
also said listed companies under investigation will be barred
from raising money via share sales and from conducting mergers
and acquisitions.  Shang Fulin , head of China’s securities regulator, has made
increasing transparency a cornerstone of reforms he’s pursuing
for the world’s third-biggest equity market by value as more of
the nation’s citizens use their savings to  buy stocks . Of the
100 cases opened for investigation by the securities regulator
in the first 10 months of this year, 74 were for insider
trading, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  “The securities regulator needs partners at various levels
of government to implement investigations and to enforce laws,
especially when deals involve state-owned companies and
officials,” said Yu Huan, vice general manager of Soochow
Securities Co. “This statement was made to ensure that relevant
enforcement capacity is in place for all deals, including those
by state-owned companies.”  The state assets commission, which oversees companies owned
by the Chinese government, will be responsible for cracking down
on executives using insider information for personal gain,
according to yesterday’s statement. Public security officials
will be required to promptly investigate cases, it said.  -- Eva Woo . Editors:  John Liu ,  Linus Chua   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Eva Woo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7537 or
 ewoo9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at +852-2977-6626 or
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net 
 