-- China Rate Increase Looms as Wen Price Controls May Prove `Insufficient'
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-19T08:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/china-rate-rise-looms-as-price-controls-may-be-insufficient-.html
China’s plans to attack  inflation 
with subsidies, sales of food reserves and the threat of price
controls are likely to prove insufficient, and the central bank
will have to raise interest rates further, economists said.  Analysts at nine banks surveyed this week by Bloomberg News
predict the People’s Bank of China will add to last month’s rate
rise, the first since 2007, by the end of December. Concern that
rising consumer prices, which surged the most in two years in
October, will undermine the economy spurred Premier  Wen Jiabao 
to hold a cabinet meeting on the issue this week.  The measures contemplated by the State Council, ranging
from a crackdown on speculation in agriculture goods to the
imposition of price caps on “daily necessities” if needed, do
nothing to address China’s credit growth. China’s benchmark
stock index has had its biggest two-week sell-off since May amid
concern that monetary tightening will hamper spending in the
world’s fastest-growing major economy.  “Price intervention could be counter-productive because it
may cause panic and worsen inflation expectations,” said  Liu Li-Gang , a Hong Kong-based economist at Australia and New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. who previously worked at the Hong
Kong Monetary Authority and World Bank. The steps announced this
week “may not be sufficient to bring down inflation quickly.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index  closed 0.8 percent higher
today, after swinging between gains and losses at least 10 times,
paring this week’s decline to 3.2 percent. The benchmark fell
4.6 percent last week.  Rate Forecasts  Standard Chartered Plc, HSBC Holdings Plc, BNP Paribas SA,
Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, Mizuho Securities Asia
Ltd., Royal Bank of Canada, UBS AG, and ANZ predict the central
bank will add to the quarter-point increases that took the
benchmark one-year  lending rate  to 5.56 percent and the one-year
deposit rate to 2.5 percent.  “Every Friday there is always a chance that China is going
to do something,”  Qu Hongbin , co-head of Asian economic
research at HSBC in Hong Kong, told Bloomberg Television,
indicating a PBOC announcement can’t be ruled out for today. At
the same time, given this month’s increase in banks’ reserve
requirement ratios and the steps taken this week, a boost to
borrowing costs is more likely next month, he said.  The so-called supply-side measures may help damp price
pressures, along with a slowing pace of economic growth, Qu said.  Threat to Poor  China’s  inflation rate  reached 4.4 percent in October,
exceeding economists’ forecasts. Standard Chartered analysts
yesterday lifted their projection for the consumer price index
for next year to an average of 5.5 percent, from about 3.2
percent for 2010.  The State Council’s meeting came amid rising concern at the
threat that increased food costs pose to the poorest people in
the world’s most populous nation. More than 81 million people in
China will need food rations to survive the winter and spring
after natural disasters, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported, citing the Ministry of Civil Affairs.  “Inflation is showing up in food most obviously, but also
in rents, service sector wages, and non-food commodities,”
analysts including  Stephen Green , head of research for Greater
China at Standard Chartered, wrote in a report today. The bank
anticipates a rate increase by Dec. 31 and three more by June 30.  Inflows of money from the trade surplus, foreign direct
investment, and investors betting on gains by the yuan threaten
to propel consumer prices after unprecedented lending by banks
flooded the economy with cash from late 2008.  ‘Root’ of Problem  Across Asia, China’s inflation compares with deflation in
Japan and, at the other extreme, a 9.8 percent rate in India. In
the U.S., consumer prices rose 1.2 percent last month from a
year earlier. China’s inflation has mostly been driven by food
costs.  Excess liquidity is the “root of the problem,”  Tao Dong ,
a Credit Suisse Group AG economist in Hong Kong said this week.  At Societe Generale, Hong Kong-based economist  Yao Wei  said
that China’s “old-fashioned price stabilization policies” will
not be enough to reduce the case for monetary tightening. The
possibility of “more interest-rate hikes by the year-end
remains relatively high,” she said.  The central bank has raised lenders’ reserve requirements
to drain cash from the financial system four times this year and
last month raised rates for the first time since 2007.  -- Li Yanping ,  Sophie Leung . With assistance from  Susan Li  in
Hong Kong. Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Chris Anstey   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  