-- China Pledges Adequate Grain Supplies as Inflation Increases, Winter Looms
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-19T07:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/china-pledges-adequate-grain-supplies-as-inflation-increases-winter-looms.html
China will ensure adequate grain
supplies to manage inflation after consumer prices advanced at
the quickest pace in two years and more than 80 million people
are expected to need food support this winter.  The government will increase packaged grain and cooking oil
stockpiles for timely release onto the market, Nie Zhenbang,
director of  the State Administration of Grain , said in a
statement on the agency’s website. China will also sell soybeans
and vegetable oil from its stockpiles from next week to
stabilize prices, the agency said in a separate statement.  China is increasing grain supplies and may impose temporary
price controls after  inflation  gained 4.4 percent last month,
the most since September 2008 and food prices climbed 10.1
percent. Chinese corn, sugar and rice futures have reached
records in the past two weeks on concern that supplies may lag
behind demand.  “The move is part of coordinated efforts to calm nerves
and take the froth off speculation that has driven up prices,”
Li Maoyu, chief macro strategist at Changjiang Securities, said
by phone from Shanghai today.  Corn on the Dalian Commodity Exchange gained to a record
2,419 yuan ($364) a metric ton on Nov. 16 and closed at 2,325
yuan today. Rice on the Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange reached an
all-time high of 2,558 yuan a ton on the same day and sugar
touched a record 7,521 yuan on Nov. 9.  ‘Liquidity, Speculation’  A combination of “production costs, inflation
expectations, demand growth, excessive liquidity and
speculation” have contributed to the rally in grain prices, the
People’s Daily said today, citing an interview with Zeng Liying,
deputy director of the State Administration of Grain.  Still, China’s plans to attack  inflation  with subsidies,
sales of food reserves and the threat of price controls are
likely to prove insufficient, and the central bank will have to
raise interest rates further, economists said.  Analysts at nine banks surveyed this week by Bloomberg News
predict the People’s Bank of China will add to last month’s rate
rise, the first since 2007, by the end of December.  “The government acknowledges that the rally in consumer
prices, especially food prices, is not caused by food shortages,
but by monetary factors,” Changjiang Securities’s Li said.  Food Support  A total of 81.37 million Chinese in areas affected by
natural disasters will need food support to see them through the
winter-spring period,  Xinhua News  reported today, citing figures
from the Ministry of Civil Affairs. The number of people in
disaster-hit areas was 25 percent more this year than the
average figure for the past 20 years, the report said.  “China’s grain demand and supply are basically balanced
with relatively ample stockpiles, so fundamentals don’t support
a rally in prices,” the administration’s Zeng was quoted as
saying. “The government has the ability to ensure supply.”  China’s overseas buying of corn has surged this year after
becoming a net importer in 2009 for the first time in 14 years
as drought damaged crops.  Corn production  probably rose 7.3
percent this year, a survey of farmers showed, signaling output
from the world’s second-largest grower failed to keep pace with
projected demand for a second year.  Imports  of corn jumped to 1.2 million tons in the first
nine months, compared with 14,790 tons in the same period last
year, customs data show. China has ample stockpiles of corn and
the autumn harvest is destined to be a bumper crop, Zeng said.  Sales Urged  China, India and countries with large grain reserves should
release supplies to calm surging commodity markets that are
raising the global hunger risk, the head of the International
Food Policy Research Institute said.  That would “send a very strong signal to the international
market,” Shenggen Fan, the director general of the Washington-
based think tank, told reporters yesterday as he unveiled a
report on the food crisis of 2008.  Food prices rose to a record in June 2008, prompting deadly
riots in countries such as Haiti and Egypt, before falling in
the second half of that year. In October, the United Nations’
Food and Agriculture Organization’s world food-price index
climbed to the highest level since July 2008.  -- Feiwen Rong . With reporting by William Bi and  Li Yanping  in
Beijing,  Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong and Alan Bjerga in
Washington. Editors: Richard Dobson, Ravil Shirodkar.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  