-- Cisco Adds $10 Billion to Its Stock Buyback Program
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2010-11-19T21:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/cisco-adds-10-billion-to-its-share-repurchase-plan-following-stock-slump.html
Cisco Systems Inc. , the largest
maker of networking equipment, added as much as $10 billion to
its stock repurchase program, aiming to give a boost to
investors after the shares fell 17 percent last week.  “Today’s decision to increase Cisco’s stock repurchase
program is part of our continued commitment to return cash to
shareholders,” Chief Financial Officer  Frank Calderoni  said
yesterday in a statement. “We are confident in our strategy,
product portfolio and ability to capture and lead new markets.”  The company’s board had already authorized as much as $72
billion in stock buybacks. And in September, Chief Executive
Officer  John Chambers  announced Cisco would issue the first
dividend in the company’s history, providing another reward to
investors. Cisco is looking at a dividend yield of 1 percent to
2 percent, he said at the time.  Cisco’s shares plunged 16 percent on Nov. 11, the biggest
one-day drop in more than 12 years, after the company’s profit
and sales forecast fell short of analysts’ estimates.  Revenue  in
the fiscal second quarter will be about $10.1 billion to $10.3
billion, San Jose, California-based Cisco indicated on a
conference call.  Excluding some costs, earnings will be 35 cents a share at
most.  Analysts  projected sales of $11.1 billion and profit of 42
cents on average, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Short-Term Bump’  The company faced a “challenging economic environment”
last quarter, Chambers said. He blamed the slump on lower
government spending in developed countries and market-share
losses to rivals such as  Motorola Inc.  Competition also has
forced Cisco to cut prices on some products and seek
acquisitions to maintain growth.  “I never want to let down our shareholders, even if I
believe it’s a short-term bump,” Chambers said in an interview
at the time. “I like for the stock to go up all the time.
Obviously, we’ve got to get confidence back.”  Cisco was unchanged at $19.61 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have dropped 18 percent
this year. The company had almost  $39 billion  in cash and short-
term investments at the end of October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nick Turner  in San Francisco at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  