-- Citigroup Sued in New York Over `Accelerated' Mortgage Forclosure Actions
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-11-19T22:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/citigroup-sued-in-n-y-for-accelerated-mortgage-forclosures.html
Citigroup Inc.  was accused of using
fraudulent paperwork to process “accelerated” mortgage
foreclosures in a lawsuit filed in federal court in New York.  “Motivated by speed and profits rather than obligatory
attention to detail, Citi failed to record necessary documents
to legally foreclose,” borrower Brian Costigan said in his
complaint seeking class-action status on behalf of others who
had home loans with the New York-based bank.  The complaint includes claims for breach of contract,
breach of good faith and fair dealing and fraud against
Citigroup and its mortgage unit, Citimortgage Inc.  Costigan said Citigroup employees submitted fraudulent
affidavits that allegedly proved Citi’s control of a mortgage
and “outsourced tasks” to outsiders without adequate
oversight. He said the bank used “robo signers’ and didn’t
verify amounts borrowed and determine which institutions had a
right to foreclose.  Loan Modification  Costigan received a loan for his New Jersey home from
Citigroup, according to his complaint. After experiencing
financial difficulties, he obtained a loan modification in April
2009.  Costigan said that while he made timely payments through
December 2009, he was told in January that his case was being
reviewed and informed a month later that he would not receive
permanent approval for his loan modification. He later was told
his loan modification was denied and Citigroup foreclosed on his
home in August, according to the complaint.  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for Citigroup, didn’t immediately
return a voicemail message left at his office after business
hours seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 