-- Citigroup Leads Banks Calling Tax-Free Debt a Buy After Slump: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-11-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/citigroup-leads-banks-recommending-tax-exempt-debt-muni-credit.html
Citigroup Inc.  leads banks urging
investors to buy municipal bonds after yields on  top-rated tax-
exempt  debt had the biggest weekly jump in at least 19 years.  Ten-year yields this week jumped 35 basis points, or 0.35
percentage point, to 3.09 percent yesterday, the biggest weekly
move on record, according to a Bloomberg Fair Market Value index
dating to April 1991. Yields on AAA debt due in 2040 reached a
14-month high of 4.57 percent, after climbing 31 basis points
since Nov. 12, a 30-year Bloomberg index shows.  States and local governments plan to sell about $15.5
billion in debt this week, which would be the most in  more than
seven years , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Projecting
a slowdown in supply next year, researchers from Citigroup,
 Morgan Stanley  and Janney Montgomery Scott LLC say bond prices
will likely rise making current investments more valuable.  “The supply is the biggest issue, and when we hit next
year you won’t see this kind of supply,”  Alan Schankel ,
director of fixed-income research at Phildelphia-based Janney,
wrote yesterday. “It’s going to be bumpy for a couple of weeks,
but the munis purchased now will be looking good in January.”  Opportunities are available at the longer-term maturities
given that the economic pressures being faced by state and local
governments are “extremely unlikely” to bring about payment
defaults, according to a note yesterday by  George Friedlander ,
head municipal strategist for Citigroup.  Build Americas  Build America Bonds, which provide a 35 percent subsidy for
issuers’ interest costs, tend to be offered in longer-term
maturities, where the biggest savings can be realized. The
program is set to expire at year-end unless Congress extends it.
Sales of the taxable securities will continue to be elevated
through next month as issuers try to beat the expiration, said
 John Dillon , chief municipal strategist for Morgan Stanley.  “Logically that would entail stronger tax-exempt pricing
because the supply wouldn’t be there, but the market is
anticipating more tax-exempt supply starting early in 2011,”
Dillon said in a telephone interview.  About $7.7 billion of Build Americas have been sold in the
last two weeks, the biggest two-week surge in issuance since the
program was created as part of the economic-stimulus package,
Bloomberg data show.  Average yields on the debt reached 6.22 percent this week,
the highest since April 9, according to a  Wells Fargo Build
America Bond  index. The move in Build America yields, coupled
with the further rising in tax-exempt yields, which increased at
every maturity yesterday, led issuers to postpone or cancel $814
million in competitive sales this week, Bloomberg data show.  Cancellation Trend  That trend may continue amid rising issuance through the
end of the year, according to  Chris Ihlefeld , who helps manage
about $5 billion in municipal holdings for Santa Fe, New Mexico-
based Thornburg Investment Management Inc., which is taking
advantage of current opportunities, he said.  “We had been very moderate to tame leading up to this
week, and we bought into this market really aggressively,”
Ihlefeld said in a telephone interview.  Conditions will continue to be difficult for issuers to
sell their debt through the end of the year, said  Noreen White ,
co-president of financial advisory firm  Acacia Financial Group ,
who is based in Montclair, New Jersey.  “It’s just going to be hell, I don’t know of any other way
to put it, between now and the end of the year,” she told a
group of about 75 mayors and local finance officials today at a
New Jersey League of Municipalities panel in Atlantic City.  White said her firm has so far this year closed $6.2
billion in transactions.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  CALIFORNIA , the largest issuer of municipal debt, plans to
sell $3.28 billion in taxable securities, including $3.03
billion in Build Americas today. The state will sell $1 billion
in tax-exempts as early as next week. The general-obligation
bonds will fund public works projects. Underwriters led by
Citigroup will handle the Build Americas and RBC Capital Markets
will sell the tax-exempt portion. Both issues are rated A1 by
Moody’s, fifth-highest, two levels above Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Rating’s A- rating. (Updated Nov. 19)  MASSACHUSETTS , with the third-highest rate of personal
income, will  sell  $350 million in taxable general-obligation
Build Americas in a competitive sale as early as next week. The
bonds will fund capital projects. The securities, with
maturities ranging from 2019 to 2021, are rated Aa1 by Moody’s,
second-highest, one level above S&P’s AA rating. (Added Nov. 19)  SOUTH CAROLINA PUBLIC SERVICE AUTHORITY, the agency
responsible for distributing electricity to 891,000 customers,
 plans  to sell $300 million in taxable Build Americas as early as
next week. The bonds, backed by power and energy charges, will
fund improvements to existing facilities, environmental
compliance and other capital improvements. Underwriters led by
Citigroup will market the issue. (Added Nov. 19)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  