-- Citigroup, Hands’s EMI Talks Said to Have Failed Over Valuation
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2010-11-19T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/citigroup-hands-s-emi-talks-said-to-have-failed-over-valuation.html
Citigroup Inc.  and buyout firm Terra
Firma Capital Partners Ltd. disagreed on the value of EMI
Group Ltd. by about 500 million pounds ($800 million) during
talks last month to restructure the music company’s debt, people
with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The rift, which has yet to be settled, prevented the firms
from deciding how much equity Terra Firma should provide, the
people said, asking not to be identified because the discussions
were private. The talks were held days before the firms went to
trial in Manhattan federal court over claims by Terra Firma that
Citigroup tricked its chairman,  Guy Hands , into overpaying for
EMI. Hands, 51, lost the suit, which Citigroup has called a
“misguided attempt” to gain leverage in the talks.  Hands valued EMI, which holds rights to Beatles songs, at
about 1.5 billion pounds including debt and equity, said one
person, who is familiar with his thinking. Citigroup, which
financed the purchase, put the valuation at 2 billion pounds or
more, said another person, familiar with the bank’s position.
With the uncertainty of a suit removed, Citigroup may be able to
harden its stance.  “Any discussions that took place here are clearly
irrelevant now that the case has been decided in our favor,”
said a Citigroup spokeswoman,  Danielle Romero-Apsilos , declining
to discuss the New York-based bank’s pretrial offer. “These
discussions are subject to strict confidentiality undertakings,
and therefore we will not be providing any comment on them.”  Queen, Paul McCartney  Terra Firma bought EMI -- which also owns rights to music
by  Pink Floyd  and Deep Purple -- at the height of the buyout
boom in 2007 for $6.7 billion. At trial, Terra Firma claimed at
least $8.3 billion in damages, saying it would have paid less
for EMI had it known another firm decided not to bid.  Since Hands took over, musical acts including Queen,  Paul McCartney , and the Rolling Stones have left the label. The
company  slipped  from a profit of 86 million pounds in fiscal
2006 to a loss of 1.57 billion pounds in 2009. Resetting EMI’s
valuation is a starting point for determining how much
additional equity London-based Terra Firma must inject or
concede to Citigroup to satisfy the bank, the people said.  The two sides have broken off talks, the people said.
Discussions may resume later this year or early in 2011, in
advance of a March 31 financial test that EMI must pass in
accordance with the loan terms, they said. While Terra Firma is
current on its loan payments, EMI is likely to fail the March
test, which might trigger a default and pave the way for a
Citigroup takeover, they said.  In one scenario discussed during talks, Citigroup would
have written down the  debt  to 1 billion to 1.1 billion pounds,
the people said. Hands didn’t want to inject more than 500
million pounds, the person familiar with his position said. The
bank wanted at least 900 million pounds of new equity, the other
person said.  “EMI is what EMI is,” Hands said of the transaction 
yesterday during an investor conference in Paris. “Regardless
of the court result, all I can say is there is always the next
deal, and that is my main focus now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 