-- Cleopatra Outfoxed Her Brother-Husband by Seducing Caesar: Lewis Lapham
-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 2010-11-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/cleopatra-outfoxed-her-brother-husband-by-seducing-caesar-lewis-lapham.html
Cleopatra was 18 when she and her
10-year-old brother, Ptolemy, jointly ascended the throne of
Egypt. The family had a long history of internecine betrayal and
murder, so it was no surprise when the siblings, now married,
engaged in a fierce battle for supremacy.  At 21, Cleopatra found herself exiled in the desert, 200
miles from her palace, hopelessly trying to raise an army to
combat her brother’s 20,000 troops. Then came Julius Caesar in
48 B.C., summoning both rulers before him.  The wily queen eluded enemy soldiers, crossed a dangerous
frontier and had herself smuggled into the palace hidden in a
sack (probably not the carpet of legend).  By the time Ptolemy arrived, she and Caesar were getting
along very well. The young king was furious to discover he’d
been outwitted, burst into tears, and rushed into the crowded
streets, screaming “Betrayal!” Caesar’s men dragged him back
and placed him under house arrest.  It wasn’t long before Cleopatra found herself pregnant with
Caesar’s son and eventually occupied the throne until 30 B.C.,
by which time Ptolemy was long dead.  I spoke with  Stacy Schiff , author of “ Cleopatra: A Life ,”
on the following topics:  1. Sources: Moralists & Hacks  2. Rome on the Rise  3. Seducing Caesar  4. Seducing Mark Antony  5. Peeling Away the Myth  To listen to the podcast, click  here . To buy this book in North
America, click  here .  ( Lewis Lapham  is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for Bloomberg News.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in New York at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 