-- Copper Has Biggest Weekly Drop in Three Months as China's Demand May Wane
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 2010-11-19T19:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/copper-gains-for-third-day-as-mine-strike-in-chile-continues-tin-climbs.html
Copper fell in London, capping the
biggest weekly loss in three months, on mounting concern that
demand will slow in China, the world’s largest metals user.  China ordered banks to set aside larger reserves for the
second time in two weeks, draining cash from the financial
system to limit inflation. The requirement will increase 50
basis points starting Nov. 29, the central bank said on its
website today.  “China needs to implement further measures to cool down
the economy,” said  Daniel Briesemann , an analyst at Commerzbank
AG in Frankfurt. Slower growth will limit demand for industrial
metals at least in the short-term, he said.  Copper for delivery in three months declined $21, or 0.2
percent, to settle at $8,404 a metric ton ($3.82 a pound) on the
London Metal Exchange at 6:11 p.m. local time. The price lost
2.4 percent this week, the most since the week ended Aug. 13.  On the Comex, copper futures for delivery in March were
little changed, adding 0.4 cent to $3.8425 a pound in New York.  China’s economy grew 9.6 percent in the third quarter, the
most among major economies, and the nation’s inflation rate is
accelerating at the fastest pace in two years. The expansion
helped fuel a 15 percent rally this year in copper prices in New
York. Last week, futures touched a 30-month high and the metal
climbed to a record on the LME.  ‘Quicker Corrections’  “With each successive round of Chinese tightening,
corrections could come our way more quickly and will exhibit
much greater staying power,”  Edward Meir , an analyst at MF
Global Holdings Ltd. in Darien, Connecticut, said today in a
report.  Copper  stockpiles  monitored by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange have gained 45 percent since the end of September to
the highest level in five months.  Striking workers at Anglo American Plc and Xstrata Plc’s
Collahuasi mining unit are accepting a wage proposal, company
spokeswoman Bernardita Fernandez said in an e-mailed statement
today. The walkout at Collahuasi, the world’s fourth-biggest
mine, entered its 14th day yesterday.  An end to the wage dispute “would take the risk premium
out of copper,” said  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market
strategist at Lind-Waldock in Chicago.  Also on the LME, aluminum, zinc, lead, and tin fell. Nickel
was unchanged.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
 Yi Tian  in New York at 
 Ytian8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 