-- Corker Says He's `Vindicated' by GM IPO for Pressing Demands on Automakers
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-11-19T13:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/corker-says-he-s-vindicated-by-gm-ipo-for-pressing-demands-on-automakers.html
Senator  Bob Corker , the Tennessee
Republican who shaped the government’s demands of automakers in
exchange for $82 billion of taxpayer money, said he feels
“vindicated” by  General Motors Co. ’s initial public offering.  “I know I’m not very popular in Michigan,” Corker said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “But our involvement in
this transaction in the beginning refocused Washington in such a
way that demands were made for the company to do the things
necessary for success.”  The Bush and Obama administrations used Corker’s
requirements for GM and Chrysler Group LLC bondholders to take
losses and the United Auto Workers union to agree to lower wages
and changes in health benefits as among the prerequisites for
the U.S. funding their bankruptcies.  The U.S. Treasury Department sold almost half of its  stake 
in Detroit-based GM this week for $33 a share, about $10 less
than it needs to break even on its $49.5 billion investment in
the largest U.S. automaker. The remaining shares will need to
sell for about $20 higher to make up the difference.  “If you’re a taxpayer in this country, you’ve got to be
very happy,” Corker, 58, said yesterday. “It’s my hope that
we’ll get most if not all of our money back over time.”  Corker said he was “astounded” in November 2008 by GM
Chief Executive Officer  Rick Wagoner ’s testimony to the Senate
Banking Committee. Corker was convinced the automaker couldn’t
be viable without bankruptcy and would keep returning for more
aid, he said.  ‘Protect Taxpayers’  “I got involved when I realized that a deal was going to
be done regardless,” he said. “Once I realized taxpayer money
was going into these companies one way or another, that’s when I
dug down and tried to figure out, if this is going to happen,
let’s make sure we protect taxpayers. We’ve done that.”  After a federal rescue plan for the automakers failed in
December 2008, President  George W. Bush  and Treasury Secretary
 Henry Paulson  each made separate calls to Corker the morning
they allowed GM and Chrysler to access loans through the
Troubled Asset Relief Program, he said.  “They said, ‘We know you’re not going to like this,
Corker, but we did put your criteria into the loan documents,’”
Corker said.  Steven Rattner , the former head of the U.S. Automotive Task
Force, deserves credit for making the “Corker Criteria” even
stricter by requiring the automakers to make further reductions
to their debt, and convincing the UAW to accept more of its
health-care obligations from GM in stock, Corker said.  Reduced Debt  Before entering bankruptcy on June 1, 2009, GM had
$54.4 billion in  debt  and owed an additional $20 billion to a
retiree health-care trust managed by the United Auto Workers. GM
had $88 billion in  losses  from the end of 2004 until going into
bankruptcy.  GM  now owes $15.6 billion in debt and preferred stock and
$9.4 billion in underfunded retiree obligations. The company has
made $4.77 billion in the first three quarters of this year. The
old General Motors Corp. didn’t make that much in the first nine
months of a year since 1999, when it earned $5.75 billion.  Rattner paid $6.2 million yesterday and accepted a two-year
ban from associating with broker-dealers or investment advisers
to resolve a Securities and Exchange Commission probe of
kickbacks in connection with the New York state pension fund.  Corker said while he is pleased by the outcome of the
government’s assisting GM, the rescue created a moral hazard.  “The actions that were taken hopefully will not lead
companies to do more of this in the future just because this has
been successful,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 