-- Corn, Soybeans Fall on Speculation China Inflation Curbs May Erode Demand
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2010-11-19T13:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/corn-soybeans-fall-on-speculation-china-inflation-curbs-may-erode-demand.html
Corn and soybeans fell in Chicago,
erasing gains, on speculation Chinese measures aimed at curbing
inflation will erode demand for raw materials used to make food.  China said this week it may impose price controls and raise
interest rates to limit inflation. That might slow investment in
commodities and purchases by companies that process raw
materials. Corn and soybeans have dropped in three of four
sessions after the announcement.  “The inflationary situation in China remains at the
forefront with, according to traders, an imminent rate increase,
which could in time slow down consumption and therefore the need
for imports,” Paris-based farm adviser Agritel said in a
comment on its website today. “That’s weighing particularly on
soy and corn this morning.”  Corn for March delivery fell 6.75 cents, or 1.2 percent, to
$5.49 a bushel at 1:14 p.m. London time on the Chicago Board of
Trade. The grain has dropped 5.7 percent this month, partly on
speculation that demand would subside.  China became a net importer of corn for the first time in
14 years in 2009. It’s also the world’s largest buyer of
soybeans. The U.S. is the biggest exporter of both crops.  “If China needs to import corn because there is a deficit,
then these imports will take place,” said  Emmanuel Jayet , head
of agricultural commodity research at Societe Generale SA in
London.  Soybean Demand  Soybeans for January delivery dropped 17.5 cents, or 1.4
percent, to $12.245 a bushel. The oilseed is down 3.5 percent
this week, headed for the biggest weekly drop in seven weeks.  Prices had gained on speculation that China’s price-control
measures would have no effect on demand. The country’s efforts
will have only a “very minor” impact because products made
from the oilseed are in such high demand, the U.S. Soybean Board
said.  “Grains fell when China hinted at new inflation-tackling
measures which gave investors a signal to take profits,” Jayet
said. “Now it seems that these measures won’t be as dramatic as
initially feared.”  Wheat for March delivery fell 5.5 cents, or 0.8 percent, to
$6.79 a bushel, extending this week’s drop to 4.3 percent.
Milling wheat for January delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris
slid 1.25 euros, or 0.6 percent, to 212 euros ($289.99) a metric
ton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 