-- Cotton Set for Biggest Weekly Decline in 16 Months on China Rate Outlook
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2010-11-19T06:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/cotton-set-for-biggest-weekly-decline-in-16-months-on-china-rate-outlook.html
Cotton futures slumped, set for the
biggest weekly loss in 16 months, on speculation China may raise
interest rates, possibly curbing demand for the fiber.  Cotton for March delivery plunged as much as 4.5 percent to
$1.234 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York, before trading
at $1.2596 at 2:50 p.m. Singapore time. The contract is set for
a 6.2 percent weekly loss, the biggest for the most-active
contract since July 2009.  Prices fell on speculation China will add to last month’s
rate rise, the first since 2007, by the end of December. The
central bank may raise borrowing costs as efforts to attack
inflation with subsidies, sales of food reserves and the threat
of price controls are likely to prove insufficient, said
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The reality is that the jumping around at the moment is
financial markets-driven, as opposed to any real connection to
any significant changes in fundamentals,” Wayne Gordon, a
senior analyst at Rabobank Groep NV said by phone from Sydney
today. “We’ve seen speculators come out of the market.”  China, the world’s biggest cotton user, needs to import 20
million bales of the fiber this year to meet rising demand from
the domestic textile industry, Sunny Verghese, chief executive
officer of Olam International Ltd., one of the world’s three
biggest cotton suppliers, said Nov. 15.  Production in China is forecast by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture to trail domestic demand for the 12th straight year,
pushing the nation’s stockpiles to the lowest level since 1995.  Stockpiles Drained  Global demand for the fiber was forecast to outstrip
production for a fifth straight year, draining stockpiles to
42.2 million bales before next year’s harvest. That will be the
smallest since the marketing year ended 1996, according to USDA
data.  “While there’s going to be sharp swings in prices due to
speculator influence in the market, broadly speaking, prices are
well underpinned at these higher levels because the fundamentals
are quite tight,” he said, referring to global stockpiles.  Cotton futures yesterday surged by 5 cents, the maximum
limit set by the exchange, to $1.2915 a pound in New York.  Global output will fall short of demand by 525,000 tons,
down from a shortage of 778,000 tons forecast last month,
Birkenhead, England-based Cotlook Ltd. said in a statement
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  