-- Cox Takes On AT&T as First U.S. Cable Carrier Starts Mobile-Phone Service
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-11-19T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/cox-communications-takes-on-at-t-verizon-with-mobile-offering.html
Cox Communications Inc. is becoming
the first U.S. cable company to offer a mobile-phone service as
it looks to challenge incumbents  AT&T Inc.  and Verizon Wireless
by bundling wireless handsets with Web and TV.  Cox is starting its consumer mobile service in three
markets today -- Orange County, California; Omaha, Nebraska; and
Hampton Roads, Virginia, Stephen Bye, Cox’s vice president of
wireless, said in an interview.  The third-biggest U.S. cable operator is taking on phone
carriers AT&T and  Verizon , which are expanding onto cable
companies’ turf with TV services. Cox will market its mobile
plans as “Unbelievably Fair,” giving money back for unused
minutes and tying in free Cox TV, Internet, or landline
upgrades. Cox said in May about 24 percent of its customers said
they are willing to switch to its mobile service.  “We recognize that we have some very  formidable competitors 
in this space,” Bye said. “Customers will be attracted to our
service because they’ll get more value out of our bundled
offering than they will with alternatives providers.”  Cox is looking to win over consumers by addressing some
common complaints about the incumbent providers’ service, such
as overage charges and paying for unused minutes, Bye said. The
Atlanta-based company will offer alerts when a customer is
approaching the maximum number of minutes, and give 5 cents back
for every unused minute, up to savings of $20 a month.  Quadruple Play  Privately-held Cox is taking a different wireless approach
than larger peers Comcast Corp. and  Time Warner Cable Inc. ,
which are using  Clearwire Corp. ’s so-called 4G network to sell
data-only wireless service in select markets. Cox will use
 Sprint Nextel Corp. ’s 3G network for its wireless service, and
is also building its own network, Bye said.  Cox is the first U.S. cable operator to test if there is
consumer demand for a so-called quadruple play -- a package of
phone, TV, Web, and wireless service -- and if it makes economic
sense for cable operators to offer mobile service, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  “Cox has a steep mountain to climb in that they are late
to the party in a crowded industry,” Moffett said. “What made
the bundle of voice, video and data work in the cable business
was their cost advantage -- they could do all three services on
one network with one cost. Cox doesn’t have that advantage in
the wireless business.”  Cox declined to comment on the cost of building its mobile
network and what it pays Sprint to use its network. Bye also
declined to comment on Cox’s wireless sales expectations for
next year. The company doesn’t plan to sell its mobile service
nationally, only in the areas where it operates, Bye said.  Android Handsets  Small mobile carriers like  MetroPCS Communications Inc.  and
 Leap Wireless International Inc.  have achieved market share of 8
percent to 13 percent in the areas where they’ve been offering
service for at least five years, according to  Romeo Reyes , an
analyst at Jefferies & Co. in Stamford, Connecticut.  Cox will sell monthly mobile-service contracts starting at
$39.99. Customers will receive free mobile-to-mobile calling
between Cox cellphones and landline phones.  Google Inc.’s Android operating system will be available on
the smartphones that Cox offers, including the HTC Desire,
Motorola Milestone and LG Axis. Cox will expand and refine its
handset selection based on customer demand, Bye said.  The devices will be available to purchase at newly opened
Cox Solution Stores in all three regions where the service is
available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 Kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  