-- Crowe’s Professor Plans Prison Break; ‘Dagenham’ Strikers: Film
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-11-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/crowe-s-teacher-plans-prison-break-female-autoworkers-strike-rick-warner.html
“ The Next Three Days ,” starring
 Russell Crowe  as a college professor who tries to break his wife
out of prison, is a smart, suspenseful thriller that slowly
comes together like a jigsaw puzzle.  Despite a few sluggish stretches and a plot that sometimes
defies logic, writer/director  Paul Haggis ’s remake of the 2008
French film “Anything for Her” has enough Hitchcockian
elements to hold your attention to the very end.  John Brennan is a mild-mannered English teacher at a
Pittsburgh community college whose wife Lara (Elizabeth Banks)
is convicted of killing her boss and sentenced to a long prison
term. Brennan is certain his wife is innocent even though the
evidence, including a splotch of the victim’s blood on her coat,
strongly indicates she’s not.  Three years later, after Lara’s appeals have been denied
and she has tried to kill herself, John decides to take the law
into his own hands. He solicits advice from Damon ( Liam Neeson ),
a scar-faced ex-con who wrote a book about his numerous prison
escapes.  Neeson’s only scene is a memorable one. Damon discourages
the desperate husband, telling him in precise detail how
difficult a prison break would be. But Brennan goes ahead with
his plan, scouring the Internet to learn how to make duplicate
keys, break into cars and acquire other skills he’ll need to
pull off the escape.  Meth Lab Shootout  Brennan is drawn into the murky criminal underground, where
he meets a deaf man who offers to make him fake passports and
ends up in a shootout at a meth lab. All the while, he’s
covering a wall at his home with maps and photos of his
elaborate scheme, which will later provide one of the film’s
many surprise twists.  Olivia Wilde, best known for her doctor’s role on TV’s
“House,” plays a single mom who meets Brennan and his young
son at a playground and unwittingly gets ensnared in the escape
plot.  Brian Dennehy , Daniel Stern and rapper Robert “RZA”
Diggs also have small parts, but Crowe dominates the film with a
low-key performance that still packs intensity.  Haggis, the only person to write films (“Million Dollar
Baby” and “Crash”) that won consecutive best-picture Oscars,
makes good use of Pittsburgh’s diverse scenery, including its
impressive riverfront and skyline.  “The Next Three Days,” from Lions Gate, is playing across
the U.S. Rating: ***  ‘Made in Dagenham’  “ Made in Dagenham ” is an entertaining, informative drama
based on the true story of British female autoworkers whose 1968
strike against the Ford Motor Co. led to landmark equal-pay
legislation for women in the U.K.  Starring  Sally Hawkins  as the group’s feisty leader and  Bob Hoskins  as a sympathetic union official, the film shows how this
group of sewing machinists (they finished car-seat upholstery)
defied a huge company that subjected them to sweatshop
conditions and paid them far less than male workers.  Though the David versus Goliath theme has been done to
death in movies, director  Nigel Cole  (“Saving Grace”) and
screenwriter William Ivory make it fresh with the help of a
terrific cast and authentic period look.  Hawkins is superb as Rita O’Grady, a young mother
transformed from a shy worker into a vocal leader who stands up
to the corporate bigwigs. Also notable are Jamie Winstone as a
perky aspiring model,  Geraldine James  as the aging shop steward
with an ailing husband,  Miranda Richardson  as a government
official who supports the striking workers and Rosamund Pike as
the beleaguered wife of a Ford executive.  As the closing credits roll, we see news clips of the real
striking workers and recent interviews with some of them. The
movie is a fitting tribute to their lasting impact.  “Made in Dagenham,” from Sony Pictures Classics, is
playing in New York and Los Angeles. Rating: ***  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 