-- Oil Has Biggest Weekly Decline in Three Months on China Bank Reserves Move
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-11-19T21:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/crude-heads-for-weekly-loss-after-china-orders-banks-to-increase-reserves.html
Oil fell, posting its biggest weekly
loss in three months, after China ordered banks to raise
reserves in a move that may slow growth in the world’s largest
energy-consuming country.  Futures dropped 0.4 percent after China told lenders for
the fifth time this year to set aside more funds to drain cash
from the financial system and limit asset bubbles. Economic
growth will spur a 9.5 percent jump in 2010 Chinese oil use,
according to a Nov. 12 International Energy Agency report.  “These further moves by the Chinese to rein in their
economy and the real concern they’re expressing about inflation
is weighing on this crude market,” said  John Kilduff , a partner
at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund focusing on
energy.  Crude for December delivery fell 34 cents to settle at
$81.51 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices have
dropped 4 percent since Nov. 12, the most since the week ended
Aug. 13. The December contract expired today. The more active
January contract slipped 44 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $81.98.  The People’s Bank of China said it will raise the reserve
ratio requirement for the nation’s banks by 50 basis points
starting Nov. 29. Speculation of an imminent increase in
interest rates to counter inflation helped to drive the biggest
selloff in China’s benchmark stock index since May over the past
two weeks.  Inflation Concern  “The Chinese are fearful of inflation, and that’s causing
a bit of risk reduction in the market,” said  Robert Montefusco ,
a senior broker with Sucden Financial in London.  Chinese oil-consumption growth of 4.3 percent for next year
compares with flat demand in North America and a decline among
Europe’s industrialized nations, the Paris-based IEA forecast
last week in its monthly  Oil Market Report .  U.S. consumption of gasoline increased 0.1 percent during
the first 10 months of the year from the same period a year
earlier to average 9.02 million barrels a day, the American
Petroleum Institute said in a report today.  Gasoline prices retreated on the Chinese move, and the
hypothetical profit margin, or crack spread, to process crude
into the motor fuel fell from a three month high. The spread
more than doubled this month as plants along the U.S. East Coast
shut for repairs and imports from Europe declined in the
aftermath of a French strike.  Gasoline for December delivery fell 3.23 cents, or 1.5
percent, to $2.196 a gallon on the Nymex. The gasoline-crude oil
crack spread, based on December futures, dropped $1.017 to
$10.722 a barrel.  Irish Bailout  Oil in New York also decreased this week amid concern
Europe’s credit crisis would deepen because of mounting debt at
Irish banks. EU, International Monetary Fund and European
Central Bank officials spent a second day meeting in Dublin, and
Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  today said talks about
potential aid are “going well.”  “We’ve been worried about two major issues, Ireland’s debt
concern and Chinese rate rises,” said  David Taylor , a market
analyst at CMC Markets Ltd. in Sydney.  Oil in New York may increase next week amid speculation
Ireland will accept a bailout, a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Eighteen of 38 analysts and traders, or 47 percent, forecast
crude will climb through Nov. 26. Ten respondents, or 26
percent, predicted prices will fall and 10 estimated there would
be little change. Last week, 43 percent said futures would rise.  Crude jumped to a two-year high of $88.63 a barrel on Nov.
11 after trading for above $80 for all of October and November.  “What we’re seeing now in my judgment is not a secular
change, but very much a seasonal change,” said  Edward Morse ,
head of commodities research at Credit Suisse Group AG in New
York, in a television interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene . “The move above $80 was a fourth-quarter, high-
demand move and it also was sparked a little by some problems in
China, some problems in Europe.”  Brent crude for January settlement fell 71 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $84.34 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in London. That’s $2.36 a barrel more than the January contract
in New York, more than double the difference of a week ago.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 508,362
contracts as of 2:56 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 712,780
contracts yesterday, 0.2 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.35 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 