-- Debt Panel Chairmen Take on Critics of Budget-Cutting Proposal
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-11-19T18:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/debt-panel-chairmen-take-on-critics-of-budget-cutting-proposal.html
The leaders of a presidential
commission defended their proposal to cut almost $4 trillion
from the federal budget against criticism by Pentagon leaders,
proponents of tax breaks and opponents of Social Security cuts.  “Admiral Mullen  says  that our debt’s our greatest national
security problem and yet Secretary Gates doesn’t like our $100
billion in real cuts” in defense spending, panel co-chairman
 Erskine Bowles  told reporters today in Washington. “You can’t
have your cake and eat it too.”  Admiral  Mike Mullen  is chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  has said the panel’s
proposed cuts would be “catastrophic” and that “we are not
the problem.”  Bowles and commission co-chairman  Alan Simpson  on Nov. 10
 outlined  a deficit-cutting plan that would trim Social Security
and Medicare, reduce income-tax rates, eliminate hundreds of
special tax breaks and slash defense spending. The 18-member
commission appointed by President  Barack Obama  is trying to
develop a compromise plan by a Dec. 1 deadline.  Bowles said the Social Security benefits currently promised
for future decades are a “joke” and predicted they will be
reduced regardless of whether the recommendations are adopted.
He also defended the proposal to eliminate hundreds of tax
breaks, including the one allowing homeowners to write off
mortgage interest, calling them “earmarks” that
disproportionately benefit the wealthy.  Tax to Pay for War  Simpson called for a new tax to pay for the Iraq and
Afghanistan wars. Those conflicts are rare instances in U.S.
history of wars in which taxes were not raised to finance them,
he said.  “If you’re going to fight a war, much less two of them,
you ought to have a tax to support it to let the American people
know there is sacrifice involved other than the people who are
fighting it,” Simpson said.  The commission held three days of closed-door meetings this
week to debate the chairmen’s proposal. Any plan would have to
win the support of at least 14 members to be forwarded to
Congress for a vote. Bowles was former President  Bill Clinton ’s
chief of staff and Simpson is a Republican former senator from
Wyoming.  Bowles said he couldn’t predict whether the panel will be
able to reach agreement though he said “there’s probably more
middle ground than you think.”  He said his strategy has been to figure out “what they
really want and what they really, really don’t like, and then
what is that area they don’t really care about. That way you
have a chance to find the middle ground and you’re going to be
surprised” that “there is common ground there.”  ‘Drives Me Nuts’  “What drives me nuts,” Bowles said, are critics who
compare the panel’s proposed Social Security cuts with the
benefits scheduled under law rather than what the government is
projected to be able to afford.  By law, the Social Security program isn’t allowed to pay
scheduled benefits if their cost would exceed the money
available in the trust fund. Beginning in 2039, according to the
Congressional Budget Office, benefits would have to be slashed
to equal available revenue. That would mean a 21 percent cut in
2039, according to CBO.  “Scheduled is a joke,” said Bowles. “Don’t make promises
you can’t keep -- we can’t meet the schedule.”  Bowles said tax credits, exclusions and deductions should
be considered the same as budget “earmarks,” financing
lawmakers’ pet projects that voters often criticize. Republicans
in the House and Senate decided this week to impose a moratorium
on budget earmarks that Bowles said would total $16 billion a
year.  “There are $1.1 trillion of annual earmarks in the tax
bills,” Bowles said. “It’s one of the reasons why our tax rates
are so high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  