-- Del Monte Rises on Report of Takeover Talks With KKR
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-11-19T14:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/del-monte-rises-on-report-canned-fruit-maker-is-in-takeover-talks-with-kkr.html
Del Monte Foods Co.  climbed as much
as 13 percent in New York trading after the Financial Times said
the maker of canned fruit and Meow Mix cat food is in advanced
discussions to be taken over by KKR & Co.  The parties are talking about a price of around $18.50 a
share, the newspaper reported, citing unidentified people
familiar with the matter. That would be 18 percent higher than
the San Francisco-based company’s  close  of $15.71 yesterday on
the New York Stock Exchange.  A buyout of Del Monte by KKR would be at least the second
private-equity food deal this month. On Nov. 5, Lion Capital LLC
of London said it would acquire canned seafood maker Bumble Bee
Foods LLC from New York buyout firm Centre Partners Management
LLC for $980 million.  Del Monte climbed $1.98 to $17.69 at 9:33 a.m. New York
time. Earlier the shares  surged  as high as $17.72. Del Monte had
 risen  39 percent this year before today, equal to a market value
of about $3 billion.  The stock has surged alongside sales in the pet-food
business. Revenue at the division represented about half of Del
Monte’s $3.74 billion in sales last year, up from 29 percent
four years ago. Del Monte bolstered its pet-food business with
the 2006 acquisitions of Meow Mix and Milk-Bone.  The pet food industry has been consolidating, with Nestle
SA, the world’s largest food company, buying dog snack maker
Waggin’ Train LLC from private equity firm VMG Partners in
September. In May, Procter & Gamble Co., whose pet-food brands
include Iams and Eukanuba, agreed to acquire closely held Natura
Pet Products Inc. for an undisclosed sum.  Buyout Strategy  A spokeswoman for  Del Monte’s  outside public relations
firm, Sard Verbinnen & Co., didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment outside of regular business hours. Kristi
Huller, a representative for New York-based KKR, declined to
comment.  Buyout firms use a combination of their own funds and debt
to pay for takeovers and then seek to improve profit by boosting
sales, selling assets and cutting costs. The firms typically
sell the companies within five years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  