-- Delaware River Agency Rethinks Stalling Toll Increase Over Swaps Penalty
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-11-19T20:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/delaware-river-agency-rethinks-stalling-toll-increase-over-swaps-penalty.html
The  Delaware River Port Authority ,
operator of bridges and a rail line between Philadelphia and  New
Jersey , backed away from delaying a $1 toll increase until 2012
because of concern that waiting would trigger a $240 million
termination payment on interest-rate swaps.  Authority members this week put off deciding on a
resolution that would have postponed until July 2012 a July 1
rise in the levy on the four Delaware River bridges the group
manages.  John Hanson , the agency’s chief financial officer, said
changing the toll schedule may prompt a downgrade by ratings
firms including Moody’s Investors Service, which in March put a
negative outlook on the authority’s A3 score, its fourth-lowest
investment grade.  A downgrade would force the authority to pay Zurich-based
 UBS AG  a $240 million early termination fee on a series of
interest-rate swaps designed to cut the agency’s borrowing
costs, Hanson told board members during a public meeting in
Pennsauken, New Jersey, Nov. 17.  “If we are downgraded we would be in default under the
agreement,” Hanson said. He said the $240 million termination
payment “would totally exhaust our general fund.”  In a swap transaction, two parties exchange payments,
typically a  floating  one for a  fixed.  Earlier this decade state
and local governments sold variable-rate bonds and negotiated
with banks to leave them paying fixed interest that was  lower 
than prevailing municipal rates.  July Issue  The agency issued $308 million debt in July, paying a yield
of 5.09 percent on the 30-year maturity, or about 0.94
percentage point above a  Bloomberg valuation index . Hanson said
a downgrade based on a change in the schedule for toll increases
may make it impossible to get credit at all.  “In addition to the lower rating for the bonds there’s
even a question whether or not we would be able to get into the
bond market,” he said.  Since 2008, banks have collected more than $4 billion in
swaps termination fees from hundreds of borrowers, including
Harvard University and the  State of New Jersey , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Camden, New Jersey-based authority paid $47 million to
terminate swaps with  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . and UBS since
2008, according to annual financial statements and bond
documents.  The July 1 increase from $4 to $5 for passenger cars would
raise about $51 million, according to the resolution.  DRPA 
members had hoped to use unspent funds in a series of economic
development accounts to replace the one year of toll revenue
that would be lost by postponing the increase.  Finance Committee  The proposal is now scheduled to be considered by the
agency’s finance committee, which hasn’t yet added it to the
agenda for its next session, on Dec. 1, Ed Kasuba, a DRPA
spokesman, said in a telephone interview today.  “I think we have to find a way to postpone the tolls,”
said  Jeffrey Nash , a New Jersey appointee who is the authority’s
vice-chairman and head of the finance committee.  Pennsylvania  appointee John Dougherty, an electrical
workers’ union officer who sponsored the resolution delaying the
rise in tolls, said he’s still committed to pushing back the
increase.  “We’ve put a lot of emphasis on worrying about the bond
rating,” he said. “We should spend as much time worrying about
the people and the tolls.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  in New York at 
mtannen@@bloomberg.net. 