-- Dell Shares Rise After Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2010-11-19T21:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/dell-rises-after-profit-tops-estimates-component-prices-slide.html
Dell Inc. , the third-largest
supplier of personal computers, rose after posting earnings that
beat analysts’ predictions, a sign of falling component prices.  Profit excluding certain items was 45 cents a share in the
fiscal third quarter, Round Rock, Texas-based Dell said in a
statement yesterday. That topped the 32-cent average of
 estimates  in a Bloomberg survey.  Dell benefited from cheaper prices for parts and buoyant
spending from companies that are updating aging personal
computers and servers. The PC maker also held the line on price-
cutting to preserve  profit margins , said  Aaron Rakers , an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in St. Louis.  “They’ve put in place a little more discipline,” Rakers
said. “Hopefully that discipline can be sustained as we move
forward.”  Dell gained 23 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $13.90 at 4 p.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The  shares  have lost
3.2 percent this year.  Profit margins were helped by “pricing discipline” that
kept Dell from cutting product prices too much, Chief Financial
Officer  Brian Gladden  said in an interview after the results.
Components costs such as computer memory and hard drives have
dipped, and that also shored up profitability, he said.  Companies are upgrading dated information-technology
systems and adopting the most recent iteration of Microsoft
Corp.’s operating system, Windows 7, as well as its Exchange e-
mail software and Office 2010 productivity programs.  Companies Upgrade  That’s helping Dell sell more PCs and server computers,
Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell  said on a call with
analysts.  “The refresh cycle is very much in full bloom,” he said.  Excluding certain expenses, gross  margin , the percentage of
sales remaining after subtracting production costs, was 20
percent last quarter, compared with 18.3 percent a year earlier.  Favorable component prices and company buying helped Dell
overcome a slowdown in demand from consumers concerned about
unemployment and the pace of economic recovery.  “We saw some demand weakness” among households, Gladden
said in the interview.  Sales rose 19 percent to $15.4 billion. That missed the
average projection of $15.7 billion. Full year sales growth will
be near the midpoint of a 14 percent to 19 percent range set
earlier this year, Dell said. That indicates sales of about
$61.6 billion, short of the $62.2 billion analysts predicted.  Research, Takeovers  CEO  Dell  aims to lessen the company’s dependence on PC
sales by spending more on research and development and using
 acquisitions  to build up the server, data storage, networking
gear and services businesses.  Dell gets about 80 percent of its  revenue  from corporate
and government sales, which fared better than its consumer
business. Sales to large companies rose 27 percent, and small
and mid-sized businesses gained 24 percent. That outpaced a 4
percent increase for consumers.  Parts prices may “bottom out” this quarter, Gladden said
on the conference call. He also said he expects a “more
challenging competitive environment” in the current period.  That, combined with price reductions by  Hewlett-Packard Co. 
and Acer Inc., may make it difficult for Dell to keep its
margins as high as they were in the third quarter, said  Ashok Kumar , an analyst at Rodman & Renshaw LLC in New York who has a
“market perform” rating on Dell shares and doesn’t own them.  “They’ve always found it difficult to balance growth and
profitability,” he said. “If they can manage 17 percent to 18
percent gross margins going forward, the Street can live with
that.”  Net income  last quarter more than doubled to $822 million,
or 42 cents a share, from $337 million, or 17 cents, a year
earlier. Operating expenses climbed 19.5 percent, and spending
on research and development gained 5.2 percent to $163 million.  Global PC shipments rose 11 percent in the third quarter,
down from 22 percent in the second quarter. Dell trails HP and
Acer in global PC shipments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  