-- Derivatives, `Volcker’ Rules May Be House Republican Targets
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-11-19T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/derivatives-volcker-rules-may-be-house-republican-targets.html
U.S. House Republicans, probably
blocked by a Democratic Senate and White House from making major
changes to the financial-regulation overhaul, are preparing
procedural tactics to influence how the new law is applied.  The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July over near-unanimous
Republican opposition, requires agencies including the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, Securities and Exchange Commission
and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. to craft hundreds of rules.
Republican lawmakers and aides have been researching how they
might use resolutions, budget measures and investigative
hearings to ensure the final language meets their expectations.  One procedure being considered by House Republicans is a
little-used “resolution of disapproval,” through the 1996
Congressional Review Act, which can be deployed to target a
specific regulation.  “We are committed to conducting aggressive oversight to
bring the Administration’s actions to light,” said Alabama
Representative  Spencer Bachus , the Republican in line to be
chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. “The
Congressional Review Act should be a tool for Congress to use to
demand greater efficiency and accountability throughout the
federal bureaucracy.”  Republicans, who will take power in the House in January,
have already voiced concerns with the so-called Volcker rule to
bar banks trading on their own accounts and new derivatives
rules designed to push the $615 trillion over-the-counter market
onto regulated clearinghouses and exchanges -- two issues that
have garnered much attention from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp., according to
meetings posted on the Web sites of the federal regulators.  Reminiscent of 1994  The shots across the regulatory bow are reminiscent of the
period after the electoral shift in 1994, which gave Republicans
a net gain of 54 seats to swing into power in the House. They
promised to cut down on rules and regulations being implemented
by President  Bill Clinton ’s administration.  Bachus and Representative  Darrell Issa , the California
Republican in line to lead the  House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee , have said that they will lean heavily on
investigations and hearings to rein in parts of the new law they
deem too restrictive on the banking industry.  Republican control of the House Appropriations panel, which
determines funding for agencies such as the CFTC and the SEC,
has raised concerns among the Democrats who crafted the bill.  Barney Frank  “They have a right to try and do whatever they want to do,
but what I worry about most is inadequate funding for the SEC
and CFTC,” said Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts
Democrat who is the outgoing chairman of the Financial Services
panel and co-author of the law.  Republican Leader  John Boehner , the Ohio representative in
line to become the House speaker, has said he wants to return
all spending to where it stood in fiscal 2008 -- when agencies
like the CFTC had some of the lowest staff levels in decades.  “If there is some kind of across-the-board budget cut,
that’s going to starve the agencies,” said Jeffrey Lubbers, a
professor of practice in administrative law at the American
University’s Washington College of Law. “Agencies have a lot
more to do and a lot fewer people to do it right now.”  While Republican lawmakers have been open about their
intention to keep a close eye on agency budgets, they haven’t
spoken publicly about their power to include restrictions, or
riders, in the spending bills that would bar regulators from
writing specific rules.  Lawmakers’ Influence  The restrictions couldn’t be permanent, and wouldn’t apply
to rules that have been completed. Still, riders could increase
lawmakers’ influence on regulators in need of funding to manage
their new responsibilities under the law.  The procedural pressure will be backed by an onslaught of
letters and briefing requests from staff to the agencies,
lawmakers said. Bachus, who will find out if he is the next
chairman when the Republican Steering Committee meets in early
December, sent two letters in as many weeks to agencies drafting
rules, both of which warned of dangers in increasing regulation
on the industry.  “We are concerned that the current regulatory climate is
having the effect of discouraging access to the U.S. capital
markets,” Bachus wrote in a Nov. 12 letter with Representative
 Kevin McCarthy , a California Republican, to SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro .  Resolution of Disapproval  Another possible tool is the resolution of disapproval. If
Republicans decided to try it, they would use the Congressional
Review Act passed in 1996 by a Republican House and Senate. The
measure created a mechanism by which Congress can review and
disapprove “virtually all federal agency rules,” according to
a 2008 Congressional Research Service report on its use.  It is unlikely that such a resolution would clear the
Democrat-run Senate or President  Barack Obama ’s White House.
Still, the pressure of forcing regulators to fight back has at
times been enough to slow or reshape a particular rule.  The only resolution of disapproval to become law was signed
by President  George W. Bush . It targeted a proposal from the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration to set ergonomics
standards for businesses. Opposed by Republicans, the rules were
delayed for years in the appropriations process before Bush
approved the resolution nullifying them in 2002.  Even without the prospect of a presidential signature,
lawmakers can have an impact on the rule-writing process, said
Lubbers, the American University professor, who wrote a book on
federal rulemaking.  “A threatened appropriations rider or a threatened
resolution of disapproval might force the agencies to rethink
what they are doing,” said Lubbers. “Just the fact that it
hasn’t been used all that much, people notice it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  