-- Lehman Wins U.K. Rulilng Over $1.5 Billion Left in Accounts After Collapse
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2010-11-19T15:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/lehman-europe-wins-u-k-ruling-over-1-5-billion-in-securities.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s
former U.K. unit won a court ruling allowing it to keep more
than $1.5 billion worth of securities left in the bank’s
accounts when it collapsed more than two years ago.  Lehman Brothers International Europe, which is liquidating
in London, had asked the U.K. court for direction on whether
five other Lehman units owned any of the securities that had
been bought and sold to one another in a series of internal
transactions.  The case is known as the “Rascals” litigation, for
“Regulation and Administration of Safe Custody and Local
Settlement,” the name of the bank’s internal process for making
accounting entries between LBIE and the affiliates to record
repurchase arrangements.  “The standard Rascals process had the effect of
transferring that beneficial ownership in the securities to
LBIE,” its administrators at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in
 a statement  today. “LBIE retained beneficial ownership of the
securities thereafter.”  Lehman filed for the U.S.’s biggest bankruptcy in September
2008, roiling financial markets and contributing to the worst
economic crisis since the Great Depression. The U.K. unit has
been involved in suits with the parent company in the U.S. and
affiliates throughout Europe over billions in accounts frozen
when the bank collapsed.  Segregated Accounts  LBIE’s administrators have asked the London courts for
directions on how to pay creditors whose money wasn’t properly
segregated into separate accounts, and whether it can force
parties on the other side of swap agreements with the failed
bank to pay if they haven’t terminated the contracts.  “By contrast with some earlier applications for
directions, the administrators have not at any stage in this
application assumed a neutral role,” Judge  Michael Briggs  said
in the judgment today. “They claim that LBIE is beneficially
entitled to all the Rascalled securities remaining in its
depots, to the exclusion of any of its affiliates.”  The affiliates fighting over the assets in the case include
Lehman Brothers Finance SA, Lehman Brothers Commercial Corp.
Asia Ltd., Lehman Brothers Asia Holdings Ltd., Lehman Brothers
Inc. and Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc.  Internal Transactions  Iain Milligan, a lawyer for LBIE, said during a three-week
trial last month that the case is complicated because the bank’s
internal transactions hadn’t been as well documented as
transactions with parties outside the bank. LBIE was buying and
selling securities both on its own and on behalf of other
affiliates, Milligan said, leaving a constantly changing balance
in its accounts.  “LBIE was the designated hub company for securities bought
and sold in Europe, regardless of whether it or one of its
affiliates around the world was to enjoy the economic risks and
rewards of ownership,” Briggs said in the judgment.  The case is In the Matter of Lehman Brothers International
(Europe)(In Administration), case no. 7942/2008, High Court of
Justice, Chancery Division (London).  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 