-- Heinz Quarterly Profit Beats Analysts' Projections on Emerging Markets
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-11-19T12:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/heinz-profit-beats-analysts-projections-on-emerging-markets.html
H.J. Heinz Co. , the world’s biggest
ketchup maker, reported a 8.6 percent gain in second-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates as sales in emerging
markets soared.  Net income rose to $251.4 million, or 78 cents a share,
from $231.4 million, or 73 cents, a year earlier, the
Pittsburgh-based company said today in a statement. Analysts
anticipated 76 cents, the  average  of projections compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  William Johnson  has
increased marketing spending to lift sales of Heinz ketchup
worldwide, beans in the U.K., and children’s beverages in India.
Heinz also introduced products like Dip & Squeeze, a packet that
holds three times more ketchup than previous containers.  Sales in the three months ended Oct. 27 fell 1.2 percent to
$2.61 billion, as a result of currency translation, Heinz said.
Analysts predicted revenue of $2.66 billion, on average.  Heinz , also maker of Ore-Ida french fries and Lea & Perrins
sauces, rose 44 cents to $48.19 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have advanced 13 percent
this year.  The company bought soy-sauce manufacturer Foodstar from
Transpac Industrial Holdings Ltd. for $165 million this month to
expand in China. Chief Financial Officer  Art Winkleblack  told
investors this week that Heinz plans to generate at least 20
percent of total sales from emerging markets by 2013, up from 15
percent last year.  Heinz’s emerging-market strategy also includes introducing
infant formula in China and Russia, and may entail buying an
Asian baby-food maker, according to  Alexia Howard , a New York-
based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein analyst who recommends
holding the shares.  At the investor conference this week, Winkleblack said the
company would consider “a big acquisition” if “the
opportunity were right,” although the strategy is to maintain
an investment-grade credit rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 