-- Meirelles Says He'll Meet Rousseff to Discuss Future as Brazil Bank Chief
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-11-19T17:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/meirelles-says-he-ll-meet-rousseff-to-discuss-future-as-brazil-bank-chief.html
Brazil’s central bank President
 Henrique Meirelles  said he will meet next week with President-
elect  Dilma Rousseff  to discuss whether he will stay as head of
the institution after she takes office Jan. 1.  Rousseff fully supports the autonomy of the central bank to
carry out monetary policy, which has helped Brazil enter a
“virtuous cycle of success,” Meirelles told reporters today in
Frankfurt.  Meirelles, Brazil’s longest serving central bank President,
has met the government’s inflation  target  in all but his first
year in office in 2003. Under his watch, both the  inflation  rate
and the  benchmark interest rate  dropped by more than half.  “I received an invitation from the President-elect Dilma
Rousseff to meet her next week in order to discuss the
subject,” Meirelles, 65, told reporters when asked whether he
would keep his job in the next administration. “Dilma has
expressed many times, including during the electoral campaign,
her full support on the central bank’s autonomy.”  Yields on interest rate futures contracts maturing in
January 2011, the most traded in Sao Paulo, rose two basis
points to 10.68 percent at 12:20 p.m. New York time.  Rousseff will announce her Cabinet picks at the appropriate
time, one of her press officers, who cannot be identified
because of internal policy, said yesterday.  Mantega Remains  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has accepted Rousseff’s
invitation to remain in his position, a person with knowledge of
the matter said yesterday.  Traders are wagering the central bank will have to resume
interest rate increases early next year to contain inflation,
according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures
contracts.  The central bank kept the benchmark interest rate unchanged
at 10.75 percent in its two past meetings. Policy makers said in
a Sept. 30 report that inflation will slow to 4.6 percent next
year without further rate increases.  Earlier this year, they had lifted the overnight rate by
200 basis points from a record low 8.75 percent.  Annual inflation quickened to 5.2 percent in October,
fueled by food prices. It has exceeded the midpoint of the
government’s target in the past two months. The government aims
for inflation of 4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage
points.  When Meirelles took office, consumer prices had risen 12.53
percent in the 12 months through December 2002, and the
benchmark interest rate was 25 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Frankfurt at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  