-- Telesat Said to Seek Buyers, Sale May Bring Up to $7 Billion
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-11-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/telesat-may-seek-buyers-in-deal-valuing-satellite-firm-at-up-to-7-billion.html
Canadian satellite firm Telesat
Holdings Inc. hired three financial advisers to help sell the
company for $6 billion to $7 billion, said three people with
knowledge of the matter.  Closely held Telesat brought in  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,
 Morgan Stanley  and  Credit Suisse Group AG  on Nov. 17 to start a
formal sales process and offer so-called staple financing to
interested buyers, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private.  While an auction hasn’t officially begun, Ottawa-based
Telesat has been approached by Intelsat SA, the people said.
Intelsat, owned by private-equity funds BC Partners Ltd. and
Silver Lake, has hired  Bank of America Corp.  as an adviser and
may name others to pursue a bid, one of the people said.  Telesat is co-owned by New York-based  Loral Space &
Communications Inc.  and Canada’s Public Sector Pension
Investment Board. Telesat calls itself the world’s fourth-
largest satellite company.  A purchase by Intelsat would create “by far the largest
telecommunication-services provider” in the world, said  Marco Caceres , a satellite-market analyst at consultant Teal Group in
Fairfax, Virginia. Intelsat has a “large fleet of satellites
and may be looking to buy orbital slots owned by Telesat,” he
said.  The sale may fetch 8.5 times to 9.5 times Telesat’s
projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of about $700 million next year, said one of the
people. Telesat is being advised by JPMorgan, while Loral, a
designer and maker of satellites, is working with Credit Suisse
and the pension fund is being represented by Morgan Stanley.  Telesat’s Owners  Loral owns 64 percent of Telesat and has 33 percent of the
voting rights. The Canadian pension board owns the remaining 36
percent and has majority voting control. They agreed to buy
Telesat in late 2006 for C$3.25 billion ($3.19 billion) and
merged Loral’s satellite business into Telesat.  Wendy Lewis, a Loral spokeswoman, declined to comment on
Telesat while saying that JPMorgan and Credit Suisse are acting
as advisers on a possible spinoff or sale of Space
Systems/Loral, Loral’s other  major division .  Spokesmen for JPMorgan, Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley
didn’t return calls. Nick Mitsis, a spokesman for Luxembourg-
based Intelsat, didn’t immediately return a phone call or
respond to an e-mail. Bank of America couldn’t be reached.  Foreign Ownership  Loral  advanced $11.48, or 17 percent, to $79.23 yesterday
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the biggest jump since April 2,
2009. The shares have almost tripled in the past year.  Many of the prospective buyers for Telesat are from outside
Canada, raising the possibility of official opposition. On Nov.
3, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government blocked a $40
billion bid by Australia’s BHP Billiton Ltd. for  Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. , the world’s largest fertilizer company.  Canada lifted restrictions on foreign ownership of domestic
satellite companies in July, implementing a measure included in
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s March budget.  Under the Investment Canada Act, the government can block
any transaction valued at C$299 million or more if it finds the
deal doesn’t provide a “net benefit” to the country.  After Canada blocked BHP’s bid for Potash, Harper said his
government would give more clarity on foreign ownership
restrictions. Industry Minister  Tony Clement , who is responsible
for any review, said Nov. 16 that the guidelines will be issued
before year-end. Clement declined to comment on the implications
of a possible transaction involving Telesat.  Loral said Nov. 4 that Telesat’s board was exploring
strategic options, including an initial public offering, and
that a review also was under way for Space Systems/Loral.  Telesat generated revenue of $593 million for the first
nine months of 2010, according to Loral’s third-quarter earnings
release, and Ebitda of $450 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  