-- Henrik Wareborn Leaves BP as Global Head of Crude Trading in Restructuring
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2010-11-19T12:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/henrik-wareborn-leaves-bp-as-global-head-of-crude-trading-in-restructuring.html
Henrik Wareborn  has left BP Plc as
global head of crude trading as the company implements a plan to
restructure the unit around regional managers.  Crude-oil trading managers in each region will now report
to local business leaders, BP said today in an e-mail. Wareborn,
previously European head of commodities at Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., declined to comment when contacted by phone.  The regional restructuring, announced internally in
October, allows BP “to shorten the decision cycles and simplify
the organization by reducing the number of management layers,”
the company said in an e-mail today.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  said in a Nov. 2
interview that he’s reducing trading after the least-volatile
prices in seven years made buying and selling commodities less
profitable. London-based BP is Europe’s second-biggest oil
company by market value, after Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  Crude futures have moved between $68 and $88 in New York
this year, the narrowest range since 2003, making it harder to
make money from price swings that netted BP $2 billion in 2004,
the last time it broke out trading profits. BP told employees
last month its trading business, with a staff of 3,500, will cut
management and reduce costs to cope with lower margins.  BP Shares  Brent crude for January delivery was down 12 cents at
$84.93 a barrel on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange at 12:40
p.m. local time.   BP shares reached a five-month high of 454 pence on Nov. 9
and were last at 432.9 pence in London, down 1.3 percent. The 
shares have lost more than 33 percent since the April 20 Gulf
of Mexico explosion that sank an oil rig, killed 11 workers 
and set off the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  A U.S. presidential panel said Nov. 8 it found no evidence
so far that the company intentionally jeopardized safety to cut
costs on the well that spewed 4.9 million barrels of crude.  Wareborn’s career spanned many of the world’s biggest oil
trading companies, including J. Aron & Co., a unit of Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. He moved in 2002 to Hess Energy Trading Co., 
part of New York-based oil company Hess Corp., then known as
Amerada Hess Corp., becoming co-head of energy derivative
trading and marketing. Three years later he moved to Lehman to
oversee European energy.  Trading Income  BP pumped 2.5 million barrels of oil a day last year from
its worldwide operations, more than the national output of OPEC
members Nigeria or the United Arab Emirates.  BP and Shell have typically generated billions of dollars a
year from proprietary trading using assets such as North Sea
fields, while their bigger U.S. rival, Exxon Mobil Corp., says
it eschews pure trading as a means of generating income.  The combination of declining profits and internal
constraints may be prompting traders to leave BP, Lucy Haskins,
an  analyst  at Barclays Capital in London, said this month.
A court filing in Singapore said BP has lost 25 percent of
Asian trading staff this year.  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority register shows
Wareborn held a “significant management” function at BP Oil
International Ltd., based at 20 Canada Square in London, from 
June 2009, and a similar role at BP Japan Trading Ltd. from
June 2009 until Oct. 18 this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mathew Carr  in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net 
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  