-- Meredith Whitney Plans Ratings Venture to Compete With Moody's, FT Reports
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   B l a n c h e   G a t t
-- 2010-11-19T02:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/meredith-whitney-plans-ratings-venture-to-compete-with-moody-s-ft-reports.html
Meredith Whitney , chief executive
officer of Meredith Whitney Advisory Group, is setting up a
credit ratings firm to compete with Moody’s Investors Service
and Standard & Poor’s, the Financial Times  reported , citing her
in an interview.  Whitney is seeking approval from the Securities and
Exchange Commission to become a Nationally Recognized
Statistical Rating Organization, since NRSRO status is needed to
charge companies for debt risk assessments, the newspaper said.  The venture would then rate structured products, corporate
bonds and municipal bonds “with the intention of being a formal
competitor to S&P and Moody’s,” Whitney said, according to the
London-based newspaper.  Whitney rose to prominence with bearish calls on banks
whilst working as an analyst for Oppenheimer Holdings Inc.
Moody’s, S&P and Fitch Ratings faced congressional scrutiny for
assigning top marks to U.S. subprime mortgage bonds just before
that market collapsed in 2007, triggering new regulations aimed
at managing potential conflicts of interest which arise when
borrowers pay for their own ratings.  A person who answered the phone when Bloomberg News called
Meredith Whitney Advisory’s New York office declined to comment.
An e-mail seeking comment wasn’t immediately answered.  Whitney would join  Jules Kroll , whose former security
company’s work included probing the hidden assets of Iraqi
dictator  Saddam Hussein ’s regime, in competing with Moody’s,
Fitch and S&P. Kroll Bond Rating Inc. said in August that it
bought Lace Financial, gaining a company with NRSRO status and a
about dozen employees grading financial institutions.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Blanche Gatt  in London at  bgatt@bloomberg.net 
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore on 
 Knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  