-- Terror Cases Work in Civilian Court Verdict Shows: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-11-19T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/terror-cases-work-in-civilian-court-verdict-shows-ann-woolner.html
The upshot of accused terrorist
 Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani ’s trial looks like a perilously close
call. For his role in the murderous bombings of two U.S.
embassies in 1998, a New York jury found him not guilty on 284
counts, guilty on only one.  The 284-1 result has become Exhibit A for those who say a
civilian court is no place for accused terrorists. It prompts
renewed calls to try them in military commissions or specially
created courts, which would presumably be less squeamish about
using coerced evidence.  Even for those of us who argue that regular federal courts
are just fine for terror defendants, those 284 not guilty
verdicts in the Ghailani case produce an unsettling, internal
tug of war between principle and consequence.  Do we really want to risk freeing someone who helped bomb
U.S. embassies where 224 people died? Of course not.  But what means are we willing to use to justify that end?
What principles would be shelved?  This case shows you can keep your principles and still have
a safe nation, even a safer one than if we essentially approve
torture by allowing its fruits as evidence.  Consider the facts.  Even with all the rights of a common criminal defendant,
the 36-year-old Tanzanian has been found guilty of conspiring to
destroy U.S. buildings, a crime that will put him in prison for
at least 20 years and probably the rest of his life.  Inconsistent Verdict  Sentencing  guidelines  clearly support locking him up
forever because the conspiracy resulted in people dying. True,
the jury found him not guilty of 224 murders. But in a finding
related to the conspiracy charge, jurors also said his actions
caused death.  (Yes, it’s an internally inconsistent verdict, signaling
compromise within a divided jury. But it gives U.S. District
Judge  Lewis Kaplan  all he needs to sentence Ghailani to spend
his natural life behind bars.)  As for the fact that the jury said no to hundreds of other
charges, don’t let the large number of acquittals blind you. For
example, among them were 224 murder charges for each person who
died in the bombings in Tanzania and Kenya. If the jury had
reasonable doubt that Ghailani intended murder when he helped
gather material used for the bombings, that one issue would have
wiped out all those counts.  His defense argued he was duped into helping without
understanding the goal of the plan. That apparently gave at
least one juror reasonable doubt that he intended murder.  Four Life Terms  Consider, too, the fact that four co-defendants of Ghailani
were also convicted in federal court in May 2001, in a trial
that probably would have included Ghailani, except that he had
not yet been found. All four were sentenced to life terms for a
global conspiracy the government says was led by  Osama bin Laden .  Jurors in that 2001 trial had the benefit of statements
three of the accused made to authorities. But Ghailani’s jurors
never got to hear what he told Federal Bureau of Investigation
agents, when he essentially confessed.  Captured in Pakistan in 2004, by the time the FBI
questioned him at Guantanamo Bay in 2007 he had been moved
around to secret, so-called black sites run by the Central
Intelligence Agency and subjected to “enhanced interrogation,”
the government has acknowledged.  The defense calls it torture, but the feds aren’t handing
out details. We can surmise the details aren’t pretty, or else
surely they would have told jurors what Ghailani told the FBI.  Barred Evidence  The trouble with using his statement in court was the
apparent coercion, not the venue. If he had been handled
properly after his capture, as were his co-defendants, his
statement probably would have been heard by the jury. But by the
time Ghailani was caught, the  George W. Bush - Dick Cheney 
administration had started water-boarding and otherwise
enhancing interrogations, thus spoiling powerful evidence.  And moving his case to a military commission wouldn’t have
changed that, anyway, as coerced confessions aren’t allowed
there, either. This would be unconstitutional in any setting.  That said, a military commission might (or might not) have
allowed a key witness that Kaplan refused to seat. The judge
barred prosecutors from using Hussein Abebe, a Tanzanian miner
who would have testified that he sold bomb-making material to
Ghailani, including five crates of TNT, blasting caps and
detonators.  Kaplan kept that witness off the stand saying the CIA had
coerced Abebe’s name from Ghailani with “enhanced interrogation
techniques.” Military tribunals have more leeway on coerced
evidence, as long as the confession wasn’t forced, but it’s not
clear one would have ruled any differently than Kaplan did.  With the venue for the trial of the water boarded
 Khalid Sheikh Mohammed  up in the air, the Ghailani case takes
on more importance. The venue decision for future terror trials
shouldn’t be driven by a search for the most lax rules on using
coerced evidence.  Principle should drive the decision, not the chances of
winning a conviction. But if it’s results you want, the Ghailani
case shows you can have both.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  