-- European Stocks Drop for Second Week on Irish Debt, China Economic Cooling
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-11-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/european-stocks-fall-for-second-week-rio-tinto-lloyds-drop.html
European stocks  declined for a
second week amid concern economic growth may be held back by the
resurgent sovereign-debt crisis and measures by China to tame
inflation.  Basic-resource shares led declines as copper slid on
concern demand may weaken.  Petroleum Geo-Services ASA  fell 11
percent after raising 1.6 billion kroner ($267 million) selling
stock.  Actelion Ltd . jumped 12 percent as Amgen Inc. considers a
takeover offer for the Swiss drugmaker.  Bank of Ireland  surged
18 percent as the country said it may ask for an international
bailout.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  fell 0.3 percent this
week, the biggest drop this month and extending the 0.7 percent
fall from the previous five days. Even so, the gauge has rallied
16 percent since its low this year in May as investors
speculated that the world economy will continue to grow after
companies reported better-than-estimated  results  and central
banks from the U.S. to Japan announced more stimulus measures to
prop up the recovery.  “The two main concerns are the sovereign-debt crisis in
Ireland and the inflation bubble risk in China,” said  Philipp Musil , who helps oversee about $10 billion at Semper Constantia
Privatbank AG in Vienna. “Global growth depends on the
resolution of those two problems.”  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  is edging toward accepting
a rescue package that may threaten the country’s low-tax
policies and put voters on the hook to repay loans the central
bank says may be worth “tens of billions” of euros.  EU, IMF Officials  Officials from the European Union and the International
Monetary Fund are in Dublin assessing the books of Ireland’s
banks. The Irish government estimated rescuing the financial
services industry alone might cost as much as 50 billion euros
($68 billion).  In the U.K., a report showed inflation unexpectedly
accelerated in October, exceeding the government’s 3 percent
limit and forcing Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  to write
his fourth letter of explanation to the Treasury this year.  A separate report showed German investor confidence rose
for the first time in seven months in November as Europe’s
largest economy powered ahead of its euro-area neighbors.  “We are still positive on equities performance in the next
weeks and quarters as we expect 15 to 20 percent earnings growth
in 2011,” Musil said.  About 61 percent of the companies on the Stoxx 600 that
have announced quarterly results since Oct. 7 have beaten
analyst estimates for per-share income, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Mining Stocks  A gauge of basic-resource shares lost 2.7 percent, the
worst performance among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600.  BHP
Billiton Ltd ., the world’s largest mining company, dropped 1.3
percent, while  Rio Tinto Group , the third-biggest, slid 2
percent. Copper traded on the London Metal Exchange lost 2.3
percent this week, the biggest decline since August.  China ordered banks to set aside larger reserves, draining
cash from the financial system to limit inflation and asset-
bubble risks in the world’s fastest-growing major economy. The
ratio will increase 50 basis points starting Nov. 29, the
central bank said. The aim is to step up liquidity management
and “appropriately control” credit and loans, it said.  Paris-based  Credit Agricole SA  and  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc , the U.K.’s largest mortgage lender, led European banking
shares lower, falling 5.1 percent and 4.1 percent, respectively.  Bank of Ireland  surged 18 percent, while  Allied Irish
Banks , Ireland’s second-biggest bank, rallied 13 percent even
after saying deposits shrank 17 percent this year and announcing
an increase in the amount it’s seeking to raise in a share sale
to 6.6 billion euros from 5.4 billion euros.  PGS, TGS  PGS fell 11 percent as the world’s third-biggest surveyor
of oil and natural-gas fields sold 19.8 million new shares,
equal to 9.99 percent of its outstanding stocks, at 83 kroner
apiece to fund seismic vessel purchases.  TGS Nopec Geophysical Company ASA, a Norwegian oil and gas
service provider, sank 13 percent. The stock was downgraded to
“neutral” from “buy” at First Securities ASA.      Eiffage SA  slumped 5.7 percent as Deutsche Bank AG
managed the sale of a 1.9 percent stake in France’s third-
largest construction company, the German bank said, without
identifying who commissioned the sale.  Acciona SA  declined 3.1 percent as the Spanish construction
company said its nine-month net income dropped 3.3 percent to
101 million euros.       Actelion  jumped 12 percent. The
drugmaker may fetch as much as $9.8 billion as an acquirer may
pay about 70 francs per share, according to the median of 7
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. An acquisition would be
the biggest purchase of a European biotechnology company since
 Merck KGaA  bought Serono SA for 10.3 billion euros in 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.       MAN SE  surged 10
percent after  Scania AB , the Swedish truckmaker controlled by
 Volkswagen AG , said it’s considering merging with the German
company to create Europe’s largest maker of commercial vehicles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 