-- European Stocks Drop on Ireland, China Cooling; Banks Retreat
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-11-19T17:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/european-stock-index-futures-advance-zodiac-corio-shares-may-be-active.html
European stocks  retreated, erasing
their weekly advance, as investors awaited confirmation on
whether Ireland will accept a bailout and China ordered its
banks to set aside larger reserves to cool inflation.  Banco Santander SA led a  gauge of bank shares  lower as the
cost of insuring the industry’s bonds rose amid concern
Ireland’s fiscal plight may spread to other nations. Rio Tinto
Group fell with mining companies on speculation Chinese demand
for metals will ease. Zodiac Aerospace SA dropped 6.1 percent
after Safran SA said it won’t make an offer for the company.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slid 0.6 percent to 269.5 at the
4:30 p.m. close in London, bringing this week’s drop to 0.3
percent. The benchmark gauge rallied for the past two days on
mounting speculation that Ireland will agree to receive European
Union-led financial assistance for its debt-laden banks.  “The macro picture remains profoundly uncertain,” said
 Jeremy Batstone-Carr , London-based head of research at Charles
Stanley & Co. “Peripheral European countries are very much on
investors’ minds. China’s move will also be contributing to
weakness in the mining sector.”  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  is edging toward accepting
a rescue package that may threaten the country’s low-tax
policies and put voters on the hook to repay loans the central
bank says may be worth “tens of billions” of euros.  ‘Part Two’  “After Thursday’s relief rally on signs that the Irish
rescue package was moving forward, it seems like the markets are
concerned that this could mean the start of sovereign debt
crisis, part two,” said  David Jones , a market strategist at IG
Index in London.  National benchmark indexes declined in 12 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 0.6 percent and
France’s CAC 40 retreated 0.2 percent. Germany’s DAX advanced
0.2 percent.  Ireland’s  ISEQ  climbed 0.8 percent as Bank of Ireland Plc
surged 12 percent to 48.1 euro cents. Allied Irish Banks Plc
rose 4.6 percent to 43.5 cents even after saying deposits fell
and it will boost the size of its planned capital increase to
6.6 billion euros ($9 billion) from 5.4 billion euros.  As a group, banks posted the biggest decline among 19
 industries  in the Stoxx 600 as the cost of insuring their bonds
rose. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
on the subordinated debt of 25 banks and insurers jumped 13.5
basis points to 128, and the senior index rose 4.5 to 137,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. at 1:30 p.m. in London.  Banks Fall  Santander , Spain’s biggest lender, fell 1.8 percent to 8.53
euros, Banca Popolare di Milano Scrl, which was downgraded to
“sell” from “hold” at UniCredit SpA today, slid 2 percent to
2.93 euros and Natixis lost 1.3 percent to 3.80 euros.  “Banks have not followed the market higher,” said
Batstone-Carr. ‘It shows that Investors are clearly concerned
about the possibility of contagion risk emanating out of
Europe.”  Officials from the EU and the International Monetary Fund
are in Dublin assessing the books of Ireland’s banks. The Irish
government estimated rescuing the financial services industry
alone might cost as much as 50 billion euros.  Rio Tinto, the world’s third-largest mining company,
dropped 1.2 percent to 4,230 pence and  BHP Billiton Ltd.  lost
1.4 percent to 2,332.5 pence.  China, the biggest consumer of copper, today ordered banks
to set aside larger reserves for the fifth time this year,
draining cash from the financial system to limit inflation and
asset-bubble risks in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.
The reserve ratio will increase 50 basis points starting Nov.
29, the central bank said.  Zodiac, Safran  Zodiac  lost 6.1 percent to 48.73 euros after Safran,
Europe’s second-biggest aircraft-engine maker, said it has
decided against making an offer for Europe’s largest maker of
airplane seats. Safran climbed 4.5 percent to 23.66 euros.  “Following several contacts and under current
circumstances, the conditions for a friendly combination are not
met,” Safran said in a statement. Analysts at UBS AG removed
Zodiac from its French “top pick” list and downgraded the
shares to “neutral” from “buy.”  Taylor Wimpey Plc , the U.K.’s second-largest homebuilder by
volume, declined 3.3 percent to 24.5 pence and Persimmon Plc,
the third-biggest, dropped 1.2 percent to 353 pence.  A U.K. index of construction expectations fell to the
lowest level in 1 1/2 years in the third quarter as government
spending cuts and concern over access to finance hurt
confidence, the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 