-- European Gasoline Crack Close to Five-Week High: Oil Products
-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 2010-11-19T12:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/europe-gasoline-crack-near-five-week-high-propane-declines-oil-products.html
European gasoline’s premium to Brent
crude was close to the highest level in five weeks as stockpiles
in the region dropped to the lowest level in more than a year.  Gasoline barges advanced as Gunvor International Ltd. and
 Total SA  bought the fuel. Propane’s  premium  to naphtha narrowed,
snapping nine days of gains.  Light Products  Gasoline stockpiles  in northwest Europe are about 22
percent below last year’s level, partly as labor unrest halted
production at refineries across France in October.  Inventories fell 15 percent to 608,000 metric tons last
week, according to PJK International BV, which compiles data for
independent storage in the Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp area.  “There’s not enough gasoline flowing into ARA from
Finland, Sweden, U.K. and France to meet the demand strength,”
said  Filip Petersson , a Stockholm-based commodities strategist
at SEB AB.  The front-month  gasoline crack  was $4.85 a barrel as of
12:36 p.m. London time, according to PVM Oil Associates Ltd.
data on Bloomberg. The $5.10-a-barrel crack at yesterday’s close
was the most since Oct. 18.  U.S.  stockpiles  fell in all but two of the last twelve
weeks, according to Department of Energy data. The U.S. is an
export market for European gasoline.  Gasoline barges for immediate loading  gained, according to
a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers monitoring the Argus
Bulletin Board. Deals were done from $767 to $769 a ton, the
survey showed. That’s above yesterday’s range at $754 to $756 a
ton. So-called barge lots are usually about 1,000 or 2,000 tons.
Trafigura Beheer BV was the main seller.  Propane’s  premium  to naphtha was $123 a ton yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down from $130 a
ton on Nov. 17. Propane, used in heating, also competes with
naphtha as a raw material in petrochemicals.  Middle Distillates  Gasoil futures for December delivery dropped $1.25, or 0.2
percent, to $714.25 a ton on London’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Gasoil  crack  was little changed at $11.67 a barrel,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Refinery News  Reliance Industries Ltd.  started one of its crude
distillation units and a coker at its Jamnagar refinery in India
on Nov. 17, the company said in a statement today.  Both units, shut for maintenance in the last week of
October, are operating satisfactorily, Reliance said. Reliance
operates the world’s biggest refining complex.  Rhine Freight Rates  The cost of shipping  oil products  on the Rhine River fell
for a third day as water levels rose, increasing the amount that
can be carried on barges.  The cost of shipping  gasoil to Duisburg  in Germany from
Rotterdam or Amsterdam fell to 4 euros ($5.49) a metric ton
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. That’s
down from 4.25 euros on Nov. 17 and 7 euros at the beginning of
the month. Water levels rose this week in  Bonn  and  Mainz .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Graham  in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  