-- Euro Rises on Speculation Irish Aid Will Contain Debt Crisis; Dollar Falls
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-11-19T12:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/euro-rises-for-third-day-as-german-producer-prices-gain-more-than-forecast.html
The euro climbed for a third day
against the dollar as investors speculated that a bailout for
Ireland will prevent Europe’s debt crisis from getting worse.  The dollar fell versus most of its major counterparts as
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended the U.S.
central bank’s monetary stimulus policy. The euro got a boost as
German producer prices rose last month more than forecast. The
yen rose against the Australian dollar after a two-day drop as
China increased banks’ reserve ratio requirements.  “Ireland appears close to an agreement on its bailout,
which is positive for sentiment,” said  Neil Jones , head of
European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in
London. “The German economy is powering ahead.”  The euro rose 0.3 percent to $1.3689 at 7:50 a.m. in New
York, from $1.3643 yesterday. The euro gained 0.2 percent to
114.19 yen, from 113.95. The dollar dropped 0.1 percent to 83.42
yen, from 83.52. The pound slid 0.4 percent to 85.43 pence per
euro, from 85.05.  The 16-nation euro has gained 2 percent over the past three
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes, a gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar
is down 5.3 percent, while the yen has dropped 2.6 percent.  Ireland’s central bank governor,  Patrick Honohan , said
yesterday he expects the nation will seek a package worth “tens
of billions” of euros to help rescue banks battered by the
country’s property slump. Officials of the European Union,
International Monetary Fund and European Central Bank started
yesterday to study the banks’ books.  ‘Buoy Market Sentiment’  “Progress towards a possible loan package for Ireland from
the EU and IMF is helping to buoy market sentiment,” said  Khoon Goh , market economics and strategy head at ANZ National Bank
Ltd. in Wellington, New Zealand. “This is likely to be positive
for the euro.”  German producer prices increased 4.3 percent in October
from a year earlier, after rising 3.9 percent in the prior
month, the Federal Statistics Office reported. The median
forecast of 17 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
4.1 percent increase.  The yen appreciated to 82.12 per Australian dollar, from
82.68 yesterday, as China said it will raise the reserve ratio
requirement for the nation’s banks by 50 basis points, or 0.50
percentage point, from Nov. 29, the People’s Bank of China said
on its website today.  Weaker Dollar  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index,  used to track
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners including the euro and yen, dropped for a third
straight day, decreasing 0.4 percent to 78.319.  Bernanke  took his defense of the central bank’s monetary
stimulus abroad, saying in a speech in Frankfurt that the policy
will aid the world economy and implicitly criticizing China for
keeping its currency weak.  The best way to underpin the dollar and support the global
recovery “is through policies that lead to a resumption of
robust growth in a context of price stability in the United
States,” Bernanke said. Countries that undervalue their
currencies may eventually inhibit growth around the world and
risk financial instability at home, he said.  The Fed said Nov. 3 it will buy $600 billion in Treasuries
to spur employment and inflation in a second round of the policy
known as quantitative easing. The central bank acquired
$1.7 trillion of Treasuries and mortgage debt under a previous
program that ended in March.  ‘Strong Reiteration’  “The dollar suffered after Bernanke’s strong reiteration
of QE,” Mizuho’s Jones said. “The Fed will fulfill the program
at least, and may even extend it to $1 trillion. That’s also
helped the euro.”  The dollar was headed for a third weekly gain versus the
yen, advancing 1.1 percent before a Commerce Department report
forecast by economists to show the U.S. economy grew at a 2.4
percent annual rate in the third quarter, compared with an
initially reported 2 percent expansion.  Treasury 10-year  yields  have risen 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 2.89 percent this week.  “The surprising backup in U.S. yields is putting yen under
pressure,”  Calvin Tse , a currency strategist in London at
Morgan Stanley, wrote in a research note yesterday. “Dollar-yen
has a very robust correlation with U.S. rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  