-- Euro Gains Versus Most Major Peers on Stocks, Prospects for Irish Bailout
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-11-19T21:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/euro-gains-versus-most-major-counterpats-on-prospects-for-irish-bailout.html
The euro rose against most of its
major counterparts as North American stocks erased losses and
investors speculated Ireland will get a bailout.  The dollar fell against most currencies after advancing
earlier as the latest move by China to curb inflation damped
investors’ risk appetite, pushing down stocks, raw materials and
commodity-linked currencies such as the Australian dollar and
Brazilian real.  “Those that were exiting the euro out of fear that Ireland
would tip off a domino effect with contagion spreading to
Portugal and perhaps Spain, a lot of those concerns now have
been shelved for the time being,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior
currency strategist in New York at Bank of New York Mellon
Corp., the world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $20
trillion in assets under administration. “That’s giving the
euro a bit of a bounce as we’re closing out the week.”  The euro gained 0.3 percent to $1.3678 at 4:37 p.m. in New
York, from $1.3643 yesterday, and rose 0.2 percent to 114.13
yen. The shared currency touched 114.32 yen, the highest level
since Nov. 5. The yen traded at 83.44 per dollar, up 0.1% from
83.52 yen yesterday.  The shared currency’s gains today erased a weekly loss
against the dollar. The euro closed on Nov. 12 at $1.3691.  U.S. stocks reversed losses in a late surge as a dividend
increase at Nike Inc. overshadowed concern sparked by China that
global growth would slow. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index ended
the day up 0.3 percent after falling as much as 0.6 percent.  Limiting Inflation  China ordered banks to set aside larger reserves for the
fifth time this year, draining cash from the financial system to
limit inflation. The  ratio  will increase 50 basis points, or
0.50 percentage point, starting Nov. 29, the central bank said
on its  website  today. The aim is to step up liquidity management
and “appropriately control” credit and loans, it said.  “China appears to be using all available tools,”
strategists at BNP Paribas SA led by  Hans-Guenter Redeker  in
London wrote to clients today. “Friday’s reserve-requirement
hike is just part of China’s ongoing efforts to try and cool
inflationary pressures.”  Australia’s currency fell against all of its major
counterparts. China is the country’s biggest trading partner.
The Aussie weakened 0.4 percent to 98.62 U.S. cents, from 98.99
cents yesterday, and fell 0.5 percent to 82.28 yen, from 82.68.  Real, Rand  Currencies of other commodities exporters, including Brazil
and South Africa, fell as the  Reuters-Jefferies CRB Index  of raw
materials tumbled 1.2 percent.  The dollar gained 0.2 percent to 1.7156 Brazilian reais and
appreciated 0.2 percent versus South Africa’s rand to 6.9902.  Officials of the European Union, International Monetary
Fund and European Central Bank yesterday started studying the
Irish financial firms’ books.  Ireland’s central bank governor,  Patrick Honohan , said
yesterday he expected the nation would seek a package worth
“tens of billions” of euros a to help the nation’s banks,
which were battered by the its property slump.  Brian Lenihan , Ireland’s finance minister, is due to
publish details of a four-year, 15 billion-euro ($20 billion)
plan to lower the budget deficit this month and his 2011 budget
on Dec. 7.  The euro may rise versus the dollar as Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis subsides and investors focus on U.S. Treasury yields
amid the Federal Reserve’s purchases of bonds in a quantitative-
easing program to spur employment and avert deflation, according
to Deutsche Bank AG.  Yields ‘Main Driver’  “We find that U.S. real yields, rather than euro-area
sovereign woes, have been the main driver of the dollar,” a team
led by  Bilal Hafeez  , global head of foreign-exchange strategy
in London, wrote in an e-mailed report today. Real yields are
what investors get after accounting for inflation.  Treasury notes fell this week, elevating yields on the
benchmark 10-year security to as much as 2.96 percent, the
highest level in three months.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended the U.S. central
bank’s plan to purchase $600 billion in government debt through
June, saying in a speech in Frankfurt it will aid the economy.  The best way to underpin the dollar and support the global
recovery “is through policies that lead to a resumption of
robust growth in a context of price stability in the United
States,” Bernanke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net 
NI FRX
NI FX
NI GFX
NI ASIA
NI ASIAX
NI EUROPE
NI JAPAN
NI US
NI FED
NI AUD
NI ANZ
NI NZ
NI FXMARKET
NI MARKET
NI ECO
NI GOV
NI G20
NI G8
NI EU
NI EMU
NI CEN
NI ECB
NI IRELAND
NI IMF
NI TOP
NI CLM 