-- Former Canadian Broker Georgiou Gets 25 Years in Prison for Stock Fraud
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-11-19T21:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/ex-broker-georgiou-of-canada-sentenced-to-25-years-in-prison-in-fraud-case.html
George Georgiou, a former
stockbroker from Canada, was sentenced to 25 years in prison for
his role in an international fraud that led to more than $55
million in losses, prosecutors in Philadelphia said.  A federal jury convicted Georgiou, of Ontario, in February
of securities fraud, wire fraud and conspiracy for his role in
manipulating the shares of four companies trading over-the-
counter. In addition to the prison term, U.S. District Judge
 Robert Kelly  today ordered Georgiou to pay more than $55 million
in restitution, U.S. Attorney Zane David Memeger said in an e-
mailed statement.  “Kelly stated when imposing the sentence that the evidence
was overwhelming and that the defendant’s perjury was
stunning,” Memeger said in the statement.  Lawyers for the broker argued in court papers that he had
lived “an honorable life, full of good works” that was
“impacted by lapses in judgment.”  “We believe the sentence was far disproportionate to the
offense conduct,” attorney  Michael Bachner  said in a phone
interview noting the sentence was within federal sentencing
guidelines. “We think the guideline ranges are now a complete
reaction to the political and economic environment and have
nothing to do with the realities of the case.”  Banned as Broker  Georgiou, who was banned as a broker in Canada in 1995,
worked with others in the U.S., Canada, the Turks and Caicos
Islands and the Bahamas. He used e-mail aliases and bought stock
through intermediaries whom he reimbursed to create the
appearance of a market for the shares of Neutron Enterprises
Inc., Avicena Group Inc., Hydrogen Hybrid Technologies Inc. and
Northern Ethanol Inc.  Georgiou was arrested in September 2008 after agreeing to
pay an undercover U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation agent a
kickback to bribe brokers to purchase $10 million worth of
Northern Ethanol.  Kirby Behre , a sentencing expert at law firm Paul Hastings,
Janofsky & Walker LLP, said 25-year sentences are usually
reserved for the “most outrageous and egregious cases.”  “With a loss of that size typically you wouldn’t see a
sentence anywhere near this long. In most of these cases what
you see is a sentence less than 10 years,” Behre said today in
a phone interview. “This one is an outlier. It’s certainly an
extremely harsh sentence usually reserved for world-class
swindlers.”  Bail Revoked  Bachner said Georgiou, whose bail was revoked after his
conviction, will appeal on several grounds including the
government’s alleged failure to disclose to trial attorneys
information about informant Kevin Waltzer.  Waltzer, of Newtown, Pennsylvania, became a government
informant after he was caught by the Internal Revenue Service
evading taxes, the Philadelphia Inquirer reported. Lawyers for
Georgiou argued during the trial that Waltzer, an alleged
mobster, took advantage of the former stockbroker. Waltzer
pleaded guilty to a separate $44 million financial fraud, the
Inquirer reported in January.  “After the trial we learned that the prosecution was aware
that Waltzer had serious psychiatric problems and was medicated
and never disclosed that to the defense,” Bachner said. “He
was medicated when the offense occurred and at the time of
trial.”  The case is U.S. v. George Georgiou, 09-88, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophia Pearson  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 