-- Ex-SocGen Trader Agrawal Found Guilty of Stealing Secrets Tied to Software
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-11-19T23:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/ex-societe-generale-trader-agrawal-is-found-guilty-of-stealing-secrets.html
 Former  Societe Generale SA  trader
 Samarth Agrawal  was found guilty of stealing trade secrets
related to the bank’s high-speed computer trading software.  A federal court jury in New York today delivered the
verdict at the end of a two-week trial. U.S. District Judge  Jed S. Rakoff  set Agrawal’s sentencing for Feb. 24.  Rakoff said after the verdict that, for sentencing, he
will consider that Agrawal admitted during the trial that he
committed a theft of trade secrets.  “I think he may be entitled to some of acceptance of
responsibility,” Rakoff said. Sentencing guidelines provide for
a minimum prison term of three years and 10 months and a maximum
of four years and nine months.  Agrawal testified, under questioning by his own lawyer,
Ivan Fisher, that he shared information about Societe Generale’s
trading software with a Manhattan hedge fund,  Tower Research
Capital LLC , where he hoped to create a similar system.  Rakoff, who told lawyers he was “puzzled” by Agrawal’s
self-incriminating testimony, said he assumed Fisher was using a
“sympathy defense” on his client’s behalf.  Agrawal was convicted of theft of trade secrets and
transporting stolen property in interstate commerce.  SocGen ‘Satisfied’  “We are satisfied with today’s guilty verdict,”  Jim Galvin , a spokesman for Societe Generale, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We brought this matter to the criminal authorities
because Societe Generale is determined to protect its valuable
intellectual property to the fullest extent of the law.”  During the trial, Agrawal told jurors that his superiors at
 Societe General  encouraged him to work at home because spending
too many nights and weekends in the office would raise “red
flags” for company security. For that reason, he said, he
printed copies of the computer codes in June 2009 to study at
home.  Agrawal was hired in 2007 in New York by the  Paris-based
bank  to be a quantitative analyst in the high-frequency trading
group. He was promoted to trader and given access to the
company’s  high-frequency trading  software in April 2009,
according to prosecutors.  Later, during 10 to 12 meetings with Tower executives,
Agrawal said, he shared some aspects of a Societe Generale
trading program called DQS, for “distributed quotation
system.” Agrawal said he used Societe Generale’s codes because
he wanted the job at Tower and because he would have had to
build a similar system once hired by the hedge fund.  Goldman Sachs  A second trial alleging theft of trade secrets is scheduled
to begin in federal court in New York on Nov. 29 against former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  computer programmer  Sergey Aleynikov .  At a hearing today, U.S. District Judge  Denise Cote  said
she would wait for the trial to rule on whether Aleynikov’s case
should be held partly behind closed doors because prosecutors
said the firm’s trade secrets might be disclosed.  “I think in the spirit of cooperation and the need for
greater specificity, we’ll march through these issues one by one
as they arise,” Cote told lawyers in the case.  Aleynikov, who has pleaded not guilty, was arrested in
July 2009 and indicted Feb. 11 in what a prosecutor said was the
“most substantial” theft that New York-based Goldman Sachs
could recall.  Aleynikov, who worked as a programmer at Goldman Sachs from
May 2007 through June of 2009, is accused of copying hundreds of
thousands of lines of computer source code related to the firm’s
high-frequency trading business on his last day of work.
Aleynikov told federal investigators that he intended only to
copy “open source” code not owned by Goldman Sachs, according
to the prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Agrawal, 10-cr-00417, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The Aleynikov
case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 10-00096, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 