-- Falcone Hedge-Fund Losses Spur Shell Company's Search for Lasting Capital
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2010-11-19T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/falcone-looks-to-public-markets-to-finance-investments-after-redemptions.html
Philip Falcone , the hedge-fund
manager under fire from clients for tying up their cash in a
wireless network and other hard-to-sell assets, plans to help
finance such bets in the future by selling stock and bonds
through a publicly traded shell company.  Harbinger Group Inc. , a onetime  oil  driller that Falcone’s
hedge funds took over last year, raised $350 million this week
by selling five-year debt at a yield to maturity of 11 percent.
Falcone plans to use the company’s cash and ability to issue
stock to buy controlling stakes in industries from agriculture
to telecommunications, according to a filing this month.  Ranked among the top hedge-fund managers in early 2008,
Falcone made concentrated bets in iron-mining companies and
power producers that tumbled during the financial crisis. He put
15 private-equity holdings in a segregated account to avoid
selling at distressed prices. After losing about two-thirds of
assets under management, in part through client defections,
Falcone is looking for alternative ways to finance controlling
investments.  “It sounds like a backward way to get permanent capital,”
said Daniel Celeghin, a partner at Casey, Quirk & Associates
LLC, a Darien, Connecticut, management consultant to investment
advisory firms. “Here is a pool of money you can manage
indefinitely and you don’t have to worry about redemptions.”  11% Yield  Harbinger Group’s  bonds , due in November 2015, have a
10.625% coupon and were sold at 98.587 cents on the dollar to
yield 11 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
average high-yield, high-risk bond has a yield to maturity of
7.82 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The
riskiest debt, rated CCC and lower, yields 11.48 percent.  The shell company’s shares have  declined  38 percent this
year, and have lost a quarter of their value since the end of
August.  Shareholders  include Legg Mason Inc.’s Royce &
Associates LLC and River Road Asset Management, a Louisville,
Kentucky-based asset manager acquired this year by U.K. insurer
Aviva Plc.  Traditionally, hedge funds have raised money by selling
limited partner units to investors and entering into margin
loans or repurchase agreements secured by their investments.
Both forms of financing are more temporary in nature: investors
can sell limited partner interests back to a fund on a quarterly
or annual basis, and lenders can demand repayment or sell the
funds’ collateral should its market value decline.  Wireless Bet  Making investments through a publicly traded company allows
Falcone to raise more permanent capital through bond and stock
sales, supplementing funds from institutional investors that can
be redeemed. It may also make it easier to meet redemption
requests by using the shell company’s shares to pay investors,
rather than having to divest the underlying, illiquid assets,
said David Guin, head of the U.S. securities practice at law
firm Withers Bergman LLP in New York.  “Harbinger Group Inc. was not acquired to be a mechanism
to deal with Harbinger Capital fund redemptions,” said Jeffrey
Zelkowitz, a spokesman for Harbinger. “Rather, HGI is a
permanent capital vehicle to house longer-term controlling
equity stakes in companies that operate across a diversified set
of industries.”  Falcone, 48, has angered some clients by tying up about 90
percent of his flagship Harbinger Capital Partners Fund and more
than half of the Special Situations Fund in wireless-
telecommunications investments, as of September. The hedge-fund
manager is trying to build a multibillion-dollar private
wireless network that would wholesale high-speed Internet
connections to companies that want to provide their customers
with services tied to the Web.  Goldman Pulls  Advantage Advisers Management LLC said in a June 8
regulatory filing that it was redeeming a stake in the flagship
Harbinger Capital Partners Fund because of a “mismatch”
between the liquidity offered investors and the liquidity of the
Harbinger Capital Partners’ underlying investments.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. plans to pull its entire $120
million investment from Harbinger Capital Partners following a
15 percent decline through mid-October and the disclosure that
Falcone borrowed money from a fund to pay his personal taxes,
according to people briefed on the plans.  Harbinger Capital Partners began to embark on a different
financing strategy in July last year, when three of its hedge
funds paid $74 million to acquire a 51.6 percent stake in Zapata
Corp. from the family of financier Malcolm Glazer. Falcone
reincorporated Zapata as Harbinger Group in December and later
moved its headquarters to Manhattan from Rochester, New York.  ‘Long-Term Holdings’  The company, co-founded in the 1950s by former U.S.
President George H.W. Bush as an oil drilling contractor, no
longer has any operating businesses. As of Sept. 30, its assets
included seven employees, about $139.9 million in cash and
Treasuries, and a listing on the  New York Stock Exchange .  Under a formal investment management agreement in March,
Harbinger Capital will use the shell to obtain “controlling
equity stakes” in companies that operate in six industries,
including consumer products, insurance and financial products,
telecom, agriculture, power generation and water and natural
resources, according to a Nov. 1 filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  “Our corporate structure provides significant advantages
compared to the traditional hedge-fund structure for long-term
holdings,” Harbinger Group said in the Nov. 1 SEC filing. The
company’s corporate structure also provides additional options
for funding acquisitions, the filing said, “including the
ability to use our common stock as a form of consideration.”  Spectrum Brands  Falcone doesn’t plan to use Harbinger Group to finance
LightSquared Inc., the company building the wireless phone
network, Zelkowitz said.  The Harbinger hedge funds plan to swap most of their
majority stake in publicly traded  Spectrum Brands Holdings Inc. 
for an additional 119.9 million Harbinger Group shares, a move
that will leave them holding 93 percent of its common stock.
After the share swap, Harbinger Group would hold Spectrum Brands
shares with a market value of about $767 million along with the
company’s cash.  Harbinger Group needed to start making acquisitions because
the NYSE notified management in August that the shares could be
delisted unless it has an operating business by May 2011,
according to the quarterly report filed with the SEC on Nov. 9.  According to an Oct. 8 SEC filing, Harbinger Capital’s
flagship fund offered to assign the shell company its right to
buy the U.S. life insurance unit of  Old Mutual Plc , a $350
million deal that was announced in August. Harbinger Group
considered financing the acquisition through bank borrowings or
the sale of high-yield bonds or convertible preferred stock.  Citadel, KKR  On Oct. 22, Harbinger Group reported that the company and
the hedge fund had jointly decided not to transfer the rights to
the buyout.  There have been few other moves by hedge funds to lock in
long-term financing, in part because redemptions were rarely a
problem before the credit crisis, according to Celeghin.  Ken Griffin’s Citadel Investment Group LLC sold $500
million of five-year notes to investors in 2006, in the first-
ever sale of bonds by a hedge fund. The sale may have helped the
Chicago firm reduce dependence on financing from Wall Street
investment banks.  Private-equity firms, which invest in hard-to-sell assets,
have in the past sold shares in funds that are then listed on an
exchange, requiring investors who want to cash out to sell their
stock on the open market rather than selling it back to the fund
at net asset value.  Redemptions  Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co., now KKR & Co. LP, raised $5
billion in 2006 by selling stock in a private-equity fund that
traded on the Euronext Amsterdam exchange until last year. For
KKR, the fund was the first step in becoming a public company.
The firm last year merged with the public fund and this year
moved its listing to the New York Stock Exchange.  “It wasn’t until 2007 when everything became illiquid and
everybody wanted out that hedge funds had a problem,” Celeghin
said.  Investors sought to pull almost $300 billion out of hedge
funds between Oct. 1, 2008 and June 30, 2009, according to
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc., forcing managers to sell
illiquid assets at depressed prices or block redemptions.  Harbinger was hit particularly hard. During the third
quarter of 2008, when the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
dropped 8.9 percent, Falcone sold $4.1 billion of stock in his
hedge funds by reducing or eliminating stakes in 15 companies.  LightSquared  That November, Falcone considered having his flagship fund
purchase almost 20 million Calpine Corp. shares from the Special
Situations Fund. Harbinger ranked as the power producer’s
largest stockholder at that time, with a 25 percent stake.  Falcone is liquidating about 80 percent of the $2 billion
Special Situations Fund, which holds a chunk of the LightSquared
investment, at the request of clients, investors say. Falcone
has been trying since June to raise $1 billion to $1.5 billion
for LightSquared from investors who would be willing to commit
capital for several years, according to potential investors who
have seen the marketing documents.  The New York-based firm’s overall assets have declined to
about $9 billion, as of September, from $26 billion in mid 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 