-- U.S. Regulator to Write Rules on Internet Service Next Month, Analyst Says
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-11-19T17:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/fcc-may-write-rules-on-internet-service-analyst-gallant-says.html
U.S. regulators next month may write
rules governing how companies led by  AT&T Inc.  and  Comcast Corp. 
provide Internet service, deciding on an issue that has divided
the technology and telecommunications industries and provoked
political debate.  The Federal Communications Commission may vote on the
policy, known as net neutrality, at a Dec. 15 meeting,  Paul Gallant , a Washington-based analyst with MF Global, said today
in a note to clients.  Net-neutrality rules, which would bar telecommunications
companies from interfering with subscribers’ Internet service,
are backed by President Barack Obama and technology companies
led by  Google Inc. ,  EBay Inc.  and  IAC/InterActiveCorp . Telephone
providers have said rules aren’t needed and might damp
investment.  FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  may not have reached a
final decision to seek a commission vote, “but right now it
appears to be the most likely scenario,” said Gallant, a former
FCC staffer. He didn’t identify sources for his information.  Republicans who won a House majority in the Nov. 2 election
have opposed the rules. Representative  Cliff Stearns , a Florida
Republican, today in an e-mailed statement reiterated warnings
about a “job killing and investment freezing net neutrality
proposal.”  All Options Considered  Genachowski has been advocating for rules that would
prevent Internet-service providers from selectively blocking or
slowing content delivered to subscribers while favoring their
own offerings and those of business partners.  The agency is considering “all the options” as it seeks
“the right rules to write down to preserve Internet freedom and
openness,” Genachowski said at a conference in San Francisco on
Nov. 17.  The proposal being considered would be “positive” for
AT&T, Comcast,  Time Warner Cable Inc. ,  Verizon Communications
Inc.  and  Cablevision Systems Corp.  because the possible rules
don’t include a previous Genachowski plan to pull high speed-
Internet service into the regulatory regime used for telephone
service, Gallant wrote. Companies said telephone rules might
lead to regulation of rates.  Jen Howard, an FCC spokeswoman, said in an e-mail the
agency hasn’t circulated the agenda for its December meeting.  “These rumors from outside, uninformed sources are pure
speculation at best,” Howard said.  ‘Legal Anchor’  Genachowski in May proposed using the telephone rules as
the “legal anchor” for reclaiming authority undermined by a
U.S. court. Judges on a federal appeals court in April ruled the
agency lacked authority to punish  Comcast  for interfering with
subscribers’ Web traffic.  Now Genachowski “is leaning toward” relying on the same
section of the law the court attacked, Gallant wrote.  The agency is trying to find authority for goals including
subsidizing high-speed Internet service, or broadband,  Gigi Sohn , president of the Washington-based advocacy group Public
Knowledge, said in an interview.  “The Comcast decision left open a tiny little hole in the
needle that the FCC can try to thread,” she said. “I believe
they may try to do that.”  Stearns, the top Republican on the House subcommittee on
communications, technology and the Internet, said Genachowski’s
proposal would “further impede economic growth and job
creation.”  “Ramming through Internet regulations would ignore the
will of a bipartisan majority of Congress and the American
public,” he said.  House members, including 171 Republicans and 74 Democrats,
have written to Genachowski to express concern over his proposed
Web policies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 