-- FDIC Seeks Lawyer Documents as Federal Suits Loom Against Failed Banks
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2010-11-20T05:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/fdic-seeks-lawyer-documents-as-federal-suits-loom-against-failed-banks.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
has sued one law firm and threatened to sue another to obtain
documents lawyers received from executives at five banks that
have failed since the onset of the credit crisis.  The FDIC seeks the return of files and records that
officers and directors at the five financial institutions copied
and gave to private lawyers before their banks collapsed,
according to documents in two cases filed in federal court in
Atlanta.  The FDIC is also preparing to file negligence and fraud
suits against executives of failed banks. The FDIC board has
authorized civil suits against more than 80 officers and
directors of failed banks, while the bank regulator and the FBI
are cooperating on about 50 cases of possible criminal
violations involving former and current bank employees and
customers.  “We believe the FDIC’s position that we must return these
documents, which were shared with us by our clients, is
unsupported and unreasonable, and significantly limits our
clients’ abilities to defend themselves effectively,” said  Mark Flanagan , managing partner at McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP, which
sued the FDIC on Nov. 17, in an e-mail. “The resolution of this
issue will have a wide ranging impact on the rights of all bank
officers and directors and the law firms that represent them.”  McKenna Long’s suit against the FDIC asks the federal court
to determine what should be done with the documents. The firm is
based in Atlanta.  Failed Banks  McKenna Long represents executives from four banks that
failed this year: Darby Bank & Trust Co. in Vidalia, Georgia;
McIntosh Commercial Bank in Carrollton, Georgia; Northwest Bank
& Trust in Acworth, Georgia; and K Bank in Randallstown,
Maryland. As part of that representation, the firm says it has
received copies of board and committee minutes, commercial loan
files, and reports prepared by the bank executives.  As of yesterday, 311 banks had failed since the start of
2008, according to the FDIC, which is based in Washington and
regulates banks and thrift institutions.  The FDIC demanded that McKenna Long “immediately return to
the FDIC as receiver all bank records and all copies therof
taken from any failed bank,” according to a Nov. 15 letter from
James M. Barker, managing counsel for the FDIC, court papers
show. The letter said accessing, copying, and removal of the
documents violated the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. The FDIC
also said the law firm must return any legal fees that were paid
from the banks’ funds.  Bryan Cave  This month, the FDIC sued  Bryan Cave LLP , alleging the St.
Louis-based law firm broke privacy laws by helping executives at
Hillcrest Bank in Overland Park, Kansas, copy records in the
weeks prior to the bank’s failure on Oct. 22.  The FDIC said the records included customer information, as
well as financial statements, business plans, and “confidential
information relating to the FDIC’s regulatory activities.” The
information was then sent to Bryan Cave’s Atlanta office,
according to court papers.  After the FDIC demanded the return of the copied documents,
Hillcrest Bank executives fired Bryan Cave as their lawyers.
Bryan Cave then sent the records to its former clients and began
deleting any electronic copies, according to court papers. The
FDIC filed its lawsuit four days later.  “Bryan Cave’s acquisition and possession of the Copied
Bank Records was and is improper and unlawful under state and
federal law,” the FDIC alleges in its suit, which also seeks
the return of $157,213 in legal fees paid to Bryan Cave from
Hillcrest Bank. Court papers filed in the Bryan Cave case show
that 17 former Hillcrest officers received demand letters noting
that the FDIC will seek to recoup from them $506 million in bank
losses.  Bryan Cave’s lawyer,  Daniel Reinhardt  of Troutman Sanders
in Atlanta, declined to comment. FDIC spokesman  David Barr  said
the agency does not comment on active litigation.  The cases are FDIC v. Bryan Cave LLP, 10-cv-03666, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta), and
McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP v. FDIC, 10-cv-3779.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Tom Schoenberg  in
Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: David E.
Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 