-- Plosser Says `Premature' to Assume Full $600 Billion of Fed Asset Buying
-- B y   S a r a   E i s e n   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-11-19T16:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/fed-s-plosser-says-premature-to-assume-full-asset-purchases.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said it’s too early to assume the
central bank will complete the $600 billion in Treasury
purchases authorized by policy makers this month.  “It’s premature to presume the answer to that one way or
another,” Plosser said yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Washington. “A lot will depend on how the data
begin to unfold over the next several months as to whether or
not we think it’s necessary, whether the efficacy of the policy
is doing what we thought it would do, whether we continue to
think it’s necessary.”  Plosser, who will be a voting member of the Fed’s Open
Market Committee in 2011, said before the Nov. 3 stimulus
decision that he didn’t support additional asset purchases.
Today he said he would “not necessarily” try to halt the
securities buying, saying his decision would depend on economic
data.  He said the rise in Treasury yields in recent weeks is
“not much” of a signal of any particular development. “There
are lots of things that have gone on,” including the U.S.
midterm elections and renewed concerns in Europe over Irish
debt, Plosser said.  Path of Economy  “It’s way too early for us to sort of read too much into
any of this right now,” said Plosser, 62, a former University
of Rochester economist who joined the Philadelphia Fed as its
president in 2006. “We need to let a little time pass and try
to do a more measured assessment of what the effects of this
policy are, and what they might be, and the path of the economy
going forward.”  Some critics say the Fed’s asset purchases risk declines in
the dollar. “That was clearly not the intent of this policy,”
Plosser said. Instead, it is intended to keep inflation from
falling and boost growth, he said.  Separately yesterday, Plosser told reporters in Washington
that regarding the monetary stimulus decision, “for me, the
benefits were not large enough to outweigh the costs.”  “Obviously the decision of the committee was different,”
Plosser said, saying the program is “conditional.” “I take
seriously that view that we will evaluate that policy on a
regular basis. Depending on the path and state of the economy,
we will make decisions as appropriate as we go along.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sara Eisen  in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  