-- Federated Replaces Market Opportunity's Lehman With Noland After Declines
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-11-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/federated-replaces-market-opportunity-manager-lehman-with-noland.html
Federated Investors Inc.  named
 Douglas Noland  as manager of its Market Opportunity Fund,
replacing  Steven J. Lehman  after returns trailed those of peers
in the stock market recovery.  Lehman is no longer with the company, Pittsburgh-based
Federated said yesterday in a statement, without providing
specifics. Noland, who heads Federated’s alternative-equity
team, also manages the Prudent Bear Fund.  Lehman, known as the “house bear” by colleagues for his
persistent gloomy view on stocks, held almost half of the fund’s
assets in cash in 2008 after predicting market declines. The
cash helped him limit the fund’s decline to 6.7 percent in 2008,
when the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 37 percent, including
dividends. The $1.1 billion fund kept 29 percent of assets in
cash as of Oct. 31, according to the company’s  website.   Federated Market Opportunity has trailed rivals in the
stock rebound since March 2009. The fund dropped an average of
0.9 percent over the past five years, including reinvested
dividends, lagging behind 95 percent of similarly managed funds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has lost 0.8 percent
this year, trailing 98 percent of peers.  Under Noland, who oversees about $3.6 billion in funds that
employ techniques such as selling short, or betting against,
stocks, the fund will strive to be “competitive in both up and
down markets,”  Stephen Auth , Federated’s chief investment
officer for equity, said in the company’s statement. Federated
Market Opportunity Fund invests in stocks, bonds, commodities
and currencies, and can seek to profit from shorting stocks.  ‘Increasing Interest’  “We see absolute return portfolios within mutual fund
structures, such as the Federated Market Opportunity Fund, as an
area of increasing interest to our clients,” Auth said.  Alternative mutual funds, including those that have the
ability to short stocks and use other hedging techniques, have
attracted deposits of $19.3 billion this year, while investors
have pulled $64.2 billion from mutual funds that invest in U.S.
equities, according to data from Morningstar Inc. in Chicago.  Federated, which manages $341.3 billion in assets, has made
more than a half-dozen acquisitions since 2006 to expand beyond
money-market funds, which account for about 75 percent of its
assets. In 2008, the firm acquired two funds from  David Tice ,
the money manager known for his long-term bets against the stock
market, as investors fled equities during the financial crisis.  The $1.9 billion Prudent Bear Fund has declined 9.7 percent
this year, beating 78 percent of competitors. Over the past five
years, it has advanced an average of 3.2 percent, beating 94
percent of rival funds, Bloomberg data show.  Noland has worked with Tice for more than a decade. The two
funds Federated acquired from Tice, Prudent Bear and Prudent
Global Income funds, along with Market Opportunity, formed the
alternative-equity unit at Federated.  Meghan McAndrew , a spokeswoman for Federated, declined to
comment beyond the news release. Lehman didn’t return a call
seeking comment after regular business hours.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 