-- Federer Says Regaining No. 1 Tennis Ranking From Nadal Will Be `Difficult'
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-19T18:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/federer-says-regaining-no-1-tennis-ranking-from-nadal-will-be-difficult-.html
Roger Federer  said regaining the No.
1 ranking from  Rafael Nadal  will be “very difficult.”  Nadal pushed the Swiss winner of a record 16 Grand Slam
singles tennis titles off the top spot when he won his fifth
French Open championship in May, preventing Federer from tying
 Pete Sampras ’s record of 286 weeks at No. 1. The Spanish left-
hander went on to win Wimbledon and in September completed the
career Grand Slam by winning his first U.S. Open.  “Sure it is challenging” to get back to No. 1, the
second-ranked Federer said at a round-table interview in London
today, two days before the start of the season-ending ATP World
Tour Finals. “It is going to be very difficult because Rafa is
playing well.”  Federer said returning to No. 1 isn’t on his mind at the
moment.  “The goal is to play well here in London and then prepare
well for next season and hopefully at some stage try to get it
back,” he said.  Federer, 29, is trying to join  Ivan Lendl  and  Pete Sampras 
as the only men to have won the season-ending ATP World Tour
tennis finals five times. He last won the title in 2007.  Nadal, 24, has yet to win the season-ending championships.
He lost all of his group matches at the finals last year, and
said that the surface this time at the O2 arena -- relatively
quick courts that give hard hitters with big serves an edge over
baseliners -- puts him at a disadvantage.  “You play against the best players in the world, in the
most difficult conditions for me of the year,” Nadal said in a
round-table interview. “I try my best to change the situation
from last year.”  Matches at the ATP Finals, which start Nov. 21, are played
in a best-of-three-set format. Russia’s  Nikolay Davydenko  won
the title last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  