-- Fernandez Bet on Yields Hinges on Inflation Credibility: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n ,   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-11-19T20:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/fernandez-bet-on-yields-hinges-on-inflation-credibility-argentina-credit.html
Argentina is betting dollar-bond
yields will fall as inflation eases even as economists predict
consumer prices are poised to accelerate.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Fernandez ’s 2011 budget,
stuck in Congress since Nov. 10, forecasts inflation of 8.9
percent next year, down from the  official  rate of 11.1 percent
in the 12 months through October. Argentines see prices rising
30 percent over the next 12 months, according to a Nov. 15
survey by Buenos Aires-based Torcuato Di Tella University.  “The government’s best projection for 2011 is what’s in
the budget,” Finance Secretary  Hernan Lorenzino , 38, said in a
Nov. 17 interview. “We have expectations for inflation next
year that don’t match the negative outlooks by some analysts.”  Lorenzino, who led a 2005 restructuring of defaulted bonds
sold by Buenos Aires province, said yields on the sovereign debt
haven’t fallen far enough for the government to sell bonds this
year or next. Yields on Argentine  dollar bonds  declined to 8.38
percent on Nov. 5, down from 12 percent on June 8 before the
$12.2 billion swap of securities left over from a 2001 default.  Opposition lawmakers have stalled the government’s budget
plan, which calls for $7.5 billion in central bank reserves to
be used to pay debt, in part over its inflation forecast. In the
lower house, the ruling Victory Front coalition failed to get a
quorum on Nov. 17 to debate the legislation after it was forced
back to committee a week earlier.  “This budget is a lie,”  Francisco de Narvaez , a lawmaker
for the Federal Peronism opposition party, said during floor
debate in the lower house on Nov. 11. “Approving this bill is
lying to the people, it’s telling them that there won’t be price
increases.”  No More Options  Fernandez will likely use a decree to extend the 2010
budget bill for next year and to tap the reserves, said  Eduardo Amadeo , a member of the budget committee with the Federal
Peronism party.  “At this stage, she has no other option than using
decrees,” as ordinary sessions in congress end on Nov. 30, said
Amadeo, in a telephone interview from Buenos Aires yesterday.
“We are not going to vote the government’s budget as it is.”  The Civic Radical Union bloc, the country’s biggest
opposition party, asked Fernandez yesterday to extend Congress’s
sessions beyond Nov. 30 to discuss the budget bill.  Press officials at the presidential palace didn’t return a
phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Fernandez, 57, will use “all legal and technical tools”
at her disposal to carry out fiscal policy, Deputy Economy
Minister  Robert Feletti  said in a statement yesterday on the
presidential website.  Peso Strengthens  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 17 basis points to 518
today at 3:26 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  Warrants linked to economic growth rose 0.18 cent to 13.40
cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 3.9747 per dollar.  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 24 basis points to
686, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Beyond the inflation forecast, opposition lawmakers say the
government wants to underestimate revenue to be able to allocate
excess funds without congressional oversight. Amadeo said excess
revenue could reach 40 billion pesos ($10.1 billion) under the
government’s plan.  Money to Spend  “Tax revenue is going to grow at whatever real inflation
is, not whatever they portray inflation to be, so that gives
them actual money that they can spend,” said  Guillermo Mondino ,
the head of Latin America research at Barclays Plc in New York,
in a phone interview.  Economists and politicians including Vice President  Julio Cobos  have questioned the accuracy of the government’s inflation
reports since January 2007, when then-President  Nestor Kirchner 
began changing personnel at the national statistics agency.
Consumer prices rose 26 percent in the 12 months through
October, according to Ecolatina, a Buenos Aires-based research
company.  The government’s 2010 budget was criticized for being too
conservative on growth, Lorenzino said. That plan originally
forecast an economic expansion of 2.5 percent this year.  Argentina’s gross domestic product will grow 9 percent this
year, the fastest since 2005, according to the central bank. A
record 55-million metric ton soybean harvest and surging auto
sales to Brazil have boosted South America’s second-biggest
economy. Argentina will grow 4.8 percent next year, according to
the median forecast in a survey of eight analysts by Bloomberg.  “We believe 2011 will be a very good year for Argentina
and that’s what we have in the budget bill,” Lorenzino said.
“I don’t see any uncertainty about the most important
variables” in the economy, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  