-- Guare’s ‘Free Man of Color’ Glitters in World Premiere: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2010-11-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/feverish-a-free-man-of-color-glitters-in-world-premiere-jeremy-gerard.html
Thomas Jefferson  shows up near the
end of “A Free Man of Color.” He really takes it on the chin
from a humiliated mulatto named Jacques Cornet.  The hero of  John Guare’s  fever dream of a play has tumbled
from the height of New Orleans society to slave-auction chattel
when he summons the third U.S. president. Jefferson has just
purchased the Louisiana Territory from the French; slavery is
suddenly the law of the annexed land.  Cornet, portrayed with ineffable poignance by  Jeffrey Wright , implores the author of “We hold these truths to be
self-evident, that all men are created equal...” to make those
words true while he has the chance. Jefferson, played with
muddled resignation by  John McMartin , is sympathetic but
recalcitrant.  “Unfortunately, those words are not part of the
Constitution,” he tells the shattered Cornet, defending a
global market so hungry for American product that slave labor
alone can fill the maw.  It’s 1801 when the play opens and Cornet, the “free man of
color,” has inherited and improved his father’s fortune,
infuriating his white half-brother. New Orleans, as one of
Cornet’s multi-hued cronies boasts, is “the free-est city in
the world,” where “race is a celebration!”  Bewigged Fop  Cornet first steps into view a bewigged fop in blue and red
silk with gold brocade (providing a field day for costumer Ann
Hould-Ward). The city’s pre-eminent fixer, banker, whore hogger
and wife debaucher, he lords it over the preening sycophants
crowding his private gambling salon.  His partner in decadence is his valet, a slave named Murmur
played with infectious pathos by  Mos , the rap singer formerly
known as Mos Def.  Cornet’s father was a white plantation owner, his mother a
slave sold shortly after his birth. He has a reversal of fortune
worthy of  Dickens , but unlike that of Nicholas Nickleby,
Cornet’s story begins as a Restoration comedy of manners and
concludes in a tragedy extending forward all the way to
Hurricane Katrina.  That suggests an enormous canvas, and “A Free Man of
Color” is indeed the biggest work to date from the author of
“Six Degrees of Separation” and “The House of Blue Leaves.”  A sprawling, frequently messy play, it jolts from stylized
comedy to satire to funereal dirge with little regard for the
discomfort of a bumpy ride. The first act is rife with showy
authorial conceits (and unrelenting priapism that would make Don
Juan blush) that nearly sink the enterprise.  George C. Wolfe  Lucky for Guare, then, that director  George C. Wolfe  has
convened an astonishing creative team and an equally gifted
ensemble (26 actors!). Designer  David Rockwell  and lighting
masters Jules Fisher and Peggy Eisenhauer make the Vivian
Beaumont Theater feel intimate, with sets that are at once
minimalist and lavish. Adding to the semiclassical atmosphere is
 Jeanine Tesori’s  insinuating incidental music, with its quotes
from Haydn and other composers.  Scenes shift swiftly from a European-style theater to a ship
teeming with a cargo of sick black deportees from Haiti. In Act
II we’re in the wide-open West, where Meriwether Lewis searches
in vain for a waterway linking the Mississippi to the Pacific.
Along the way he will encounter Cornet, himself a collector of
maps obsessed with trying to comprehend the shape of a shape-
shifting nation.  Sex-Starved Scientist  Chief among a host of fine supporting performances are
those by Veanne Cox as a skittery married scientist smitten by
Jacques, Paul Dano as the wanderlust-filled Lewis and Nicole
Beharie as the brother’s wife, also cast under Cornet’s spell.  “I have a talent for alchemy,” Jacques says, pleading his
case to a Jefferson deaf to his warning about the ruinous impact
of slavery on the country they both love. Guare, a poet of our
history, also has that talent. If “A Free Man of Color” is not
24-karat gold, it glitters nonetheless.  Through Jan. 9 at the Vivian Beaumont Theater, Lincoln
Center. Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.lct.org .
Rating: ***  ( Jeremy Gerard  is a theater critic and editor for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 