-- FIFA's Blatter Says Bans Don't Get Total Support of Executive Committee
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2010-11-19T15:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/fifa-s-blatter-says-bans-don-t-get-total-support-of-executive-committee.html
FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said the
board of soccer’s governing body is divided over suspensions
handed down to two members yesterday after a corruption probe
into the award of World Cup hosting rights.  “These decisions may not have found total support of all
the members of the executive committee” but they abide by the
decisions handed down by the ethics committee, Blatter said
today at a press conference in Zurich.  Nine bidders vying to host sport’s most-watched event in
2018 and 2022 are evaluating the impact of the suspension of
Nigeria’s  Amos Adamu  and Tahiti’s Reynald Temarii, which reduced
FIFA’s decision-making body to 22 members. London’s Sunday Times
said Oct. 17 that the pair indicated they would trade cash for
their support. They won’t be replaced before the Dec. 2 vote on
who hosts the two World Cups after Brazil in 2014.  Blatter faced the media a day after his organization
announced the suspensions of Temari, Adamu and four other
officials who were secretly recorded by undercover reporters.  “You cannot avoid that football is affected by a lot of
devils, the devils are in our society, and it is from our
society that they came into our game,” Blatter said.  “I am not please about what the Times has uncovered
because it is not very fair, but it gives us the opportunity to
clean what has to be cleaned,” Blatter said.  The U.S., which estimated that the competition is worth as
much as $5 billion to the hosts, is competing with Qatar, Japan,
South Korea and Australia to stage the 2022 tournament. Russia,
England and a joint Netherlands/Belgium bid are contending for
2018 along with Spain/Portugal.  Visiting Dignitaries  The prime ministers of Australia, the U.K. and the
Netherlands will join former U.S. President Bill Clinton,
Britain’s  Prince William  and the Emir of Qatar to lobby the
voters on behalf of their nation’s bids in the period leading to
the final vote.  “The governments have made a huge effort to present their
bids and a personal effort to be present here in the highest
levels,” the FIFA president said.  The Sunday Times said its story was based on evidence
gathered by undercover reporters posing as lobbyists for a U.S.
bid at meetings with Adamu and Temarii. Adamu asked for $800,000
to be paid into his bank account to build four artificial soccer
fields, while Temarii asked for funds to finance a sports
academy. No payments were made. The newspaper also secretly
taped FIFA’s former General Secretary  Michel Zen Ruffinen  saying
that Qatar and the joint Spain/Portugal offer had colluded. The
ethics panel said it didn’t find enough evidence to take action
against the pair.  Persona non Grata  Zen-Ruffinen was branded “persona non grata” by Blatter
today. He was forced out of FIFA by Blatter after he backed a
rival candidate for the FIFA presidency in 2002.  Blatter, like the organization’s current general secretary
 Jerome Valcke , said he couldn’t rule out the possibility of
collusion because eight of the nine bids have members on the
executive committee. Still, he didn’t agree that Australia’s
lack of a voter hurt its chances of hosting the event for the
first time.  The results of an inspection tour to each of the bidding
nations were supplied to FIFA’s executive earlier this week.
Qatar’s offer to stage the tournament in 2022 was the only one
deemed operationally “high risk.” Russia was considered
“medium risk,” with the remainder “low risk,” FIFA said.  Blatter said the evaluation reports may not define who wins
the final vote.  “Human being may have other ideas than those that are
available in the documents,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  