-- Fini, Berlusconi May Reconcile Before Key Vote, Menia Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-11-19T11:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/fini-berlusconi-may-reconcile-before-key-vote-menia-says.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  may secure a truce with former ally  Gianfranco Fini 
before confidence votes in parliament next month that threaten
to bring down his government with two years left in its term.  “Berlusconi and Fini need to find common rather than
dividing points,”  Roberto Menia , one of the Fini allies who
resigned from Berlusconi’s government on Nov. 15, said today in
an interview on Canale 5 television. “A new unity can be found
on the economic situation, there is no doubt about it.”  Menia’s comments came hours after Fini released a video
calling on his supporters to show “maximum responsibility,”
prompting speculation that his position on toppling the
government may be shifting. Fini, a co-founder of the ruling
People of  Freedom Party , first broke with the premier in July.
He called for Berlusconi to quit on Nov. 7 and the resignation
of his four members of the government this week led to the
scheduling of the confidence votes for Dec. 14. Fini’s  new party 
has enough votes in parliament to bring down the government.  “It looks like some of Fini’s group don’t want to follow
their leader and within the party there is a fracture, which may
have implications for Fini himself,” said  Roberto D’Alimonte , a
professor of politics at  Luiss University  in Rome. “If this is
confirmed, the government crisis will be over before it really
begins, but in Italian politics you always need to use question
marks.”  Defections  Giuseppe Angeli, a deputy who joined in Fini’s defection in
July, announced on Nov. 16 that he would return to the
Berlusconi group. Defense Minister  Ignazio La Russa  said on Nov.
17 he had received calls from three other Fini backers who said
they won’t vote against Berlusconi next month.  Berlusconi has criticized Fini for provoking the possible
fall of the government at a time when the spread of the European
debt crisis is already shaking investor confidence in the bonds
of high-debt nations such as Italy. The  premium  investors demand
to hold 10-year Italian bonds over comparable German bunds rose
2 basis points today to 160.3 basis points after reaching a
euro-era high of 190 basis points on Nov. 12.  “I’m launching an appeal to ask for maximum
responsibility, first of all from those that have had the honor
and duty of governing,” Fini, who is also the speaker of the
parliament’s lower house, said in a  video message  posted late
last night on the website of his new Future and Liberty for
Italy party. “In the next few days we’ll see what happens,” he
said without elaborating.  Budget Passage  All the major political parties have said they are
committed to passing the Italian budget plan for next year
before voting on the fate of the government. The Chamber of
Deputies today passed the budget bill, which includes cuts
totaling 11.6 billion euros ($16 billion) to trim the deficit to
5 percent of gross domestic product. The Senate will begin its
review next week, and the leaders of both houses of parliament
agreed to complete final passage of the plan by Dec. 10.  On Nov. 17, Berlusconi vowed to survive next month’s
confidence vote to ensure political stability and calm
investors’ concerns that the fall of the government could
disrupt deficit-reduction efforts. He added he was “keeping a
low profile” out of “concern to avoid government instability,
given the amount of bonds that we have to place on national and
international markets.”  Italy’s  debt  at 116 percent of gross domestic product is
the second largest after Greece by that measure. Italy also
sells more debt than the other peripheral countries. The
Treasury next auction bills on Nov. 25, sells bonds on Nov. 29
and has two bill and bond auction scheduled for December.  The euro region’s third-biggest economy is unlikely to
 expand  more than 1 percent this year and next as the recovery
from the worst recession since World War II slows more than
forecast, employers’ lobby  Confindustria  said on Nov. 17. Italy
may miss its goal of cutting the budget deficit to below 3
percent of GDP in 2012 if growth proves weaker than the
government’s projected 1.2 percent this year and 1.3 percent
next, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said in a report yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  