-- First Data, Wind Show Perils of Betting Against Junk Bonds: Credit Markets
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-11-19T18:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/first-data-wind-show-perils-of-betting-against-junk-bonds-credit-markets.html
The junk-bond market, which this
week suffered its biggest one-day loss since May, is back on
track.  First Data Corp. ’s $3.71 billion of 10.55 percent bonds
soared to the highest in almost seven months yesterday.  Wind
Telecomunicazioni SpA  sold $3.69 billion of notes in dollars and
euros in the biggest offering of high-yield, high-risk debt in
Europe in a year. The cost of protecting U.S. speculative-grade
bonds from default fell the most in two weeks, Markit Group Ltd.
data show.  Three days after spreads on speculative-grade bonds widened
by the most in five months, investors have gained confidence
Ireland’s fiscal crisis will be contained as the nation moves
closer to an agreement with the European Union. In the U.S.,
data on jobless claims and manufacturing bolstered optimism the
world’s biggest economy won’t slide back into recession, causing
borrowers to default on the debt.  “The high-yield market is a little rich, but that doesn’t
mean that it won’t get richer,” said  Marc Gross , a money
manager who helps oversee about $1 billion of speculative-grade
bonds at RS Investments in New York.  Junk bonds gained 0.2 percent yesterday, trimming the 0.57
percent loss they suffered on Nov. 16 in their biggest decline
in almost six months, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II index.  In a month when U.S. investment-grade corporate bonds have
lost 1.3 percent, high-yield debt has declined 0.2 percent, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  The debt, rated less than Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service
and below BBB- at Standard & Poor’s, has returned 14.2 percent
this year after advancing 57.5 percent in 2009.  ‘Strengthening Mode’  “It’s just hard to see a real sell-off gaining momentum,”
said  Peter Ehret , head of high-yield investments and a senior
money manager in Houston at Invesco Ltd., which oversees $621
billion in assets. “The economic data appears to be in a
strengthening mode, not a weakening mode.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt fell 2 basis points to 165 basis points, or 1.65
percentage points, down from this year’s high of 201 basis
points on June 11, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Yields averaged 3.67
percent.  Lippmann’s Subprime Bet  Greg Lippmann , who bet against subprime-mortgage debt at
Deutsche Bank AG before the housing crisis, focused his new
hedge fund’s buying on the securities.  LibreMax Capital LLC’s fund gained about 1.67 percent in
October as it invested 44.4 percent of its portfolio in bonds
backed by home loans to borrowers with the  worst credit ,
according to a letter to investors obtained by Bloomberg News.  Lippmann, 41, started the New York-based firm with  Fred Brettschneider , the former head of global markets in the
Americas at Deutsche Bank, after they departed the German lender
this year.  Harrah’s Entertainment Inc.’s bonds and loans fell today
after the world’s biggest casino company said it terminated its
initial public offering because of market conditions.  The company’s $3.3 billion of 10 percent bonds due in
December 2018, rated CCC by Standard & Poor’s, fell 1.8 cents to
86.5 cents on the dollar as of 12:39 p.m. in New York, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  The company’s $3 billion B-2 term loan due January 2015,
dropped more than 1 cent to 87.5 cents on the dollar this
morning compared with 88.7 cents at yesterday’s close, according
Markit Group.  Protecting Debt  The cost to protect U.S. corporate bonds from default
climbed from the lowest level in a week as China said it’s
raising its reserve requirement for the country’s banks.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.4 basis points to a
mid-price of 90.9 basis points as of 12:40 p.m. in New York.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The indexes typically drop as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Ally Financial  Ally Financial Inc., the auto and home lender formerly
known as GMAC Inc., and Houston-based El Paso Pipeline Partners
LP led $11.3 billion of high-yield debt sales in the U.S. this
week, the 10th straight time issuance has surpassed the 2010
weekly average of $5.62 billion, Bloomberg data show.  American Media Inc. , the Lantana, Florida-based publisher
of the National Enquirer newspaper, sold $385 million of seven-
year debt on Nov. 16 to help finance its restructuring.  “The reception was pretty good for our deal,” said Chief
Financial Officer  Chris Polimeni . “The market has been so hot
and that’s one of the reasons we wanted to do this now.”  Companies have sold a record $263 billion of high-yield
debt this year, with more than 40 percent of the bonds issued
since Sept. 1, Bloomberg data show.  Even as sales accelerated,  Burlington Coat Factory
Warehouse Corp.  pulled a planned debt offering because “market
conditions changed in recent days and pricing became less
favorable,” it said yesterday in a statement. The Burlington,
New Jersey-based company had planned to sell $500 million of
notes and sought a $1 billion term loan, according to people
familiar with its plans who declined to be identified because
the marketing was private.  High-Yield Spreads  Spreads on high-yield debt in the U.S. widened 22 basis
points on Nov. 16, the most since they expanded 27 basis points
on May 25, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
High Yield Master II index.  Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index of credit-
default swaps fell Nov. 16 to 99.394, the lowest since Oct. 19.
The index, which rises as confidence improves, yesterday
increased 0.75 basis point to 100.5, Markit data show.  Factories in the  Philadelphia  region expanded at the
fastest pace of the year, and the number of  workers  seeking
jobless benefits over the past four weeks fell to the lowest
level in two years, signaling the world’s largest economy is
accelerating.  Ireland Talks  In Ireland, Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said he would
welcome the creation of “substantial contingency capital
funding” for the nation’s banks, as they became “unmanageable
for the state itself.” European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  said in a speech in Frankfurt that policies first
used to fight the global credit crisis can’t “evolve into a
dependency as conditions normalize.”  Yields on 10-year  Treasury notes  fell 3 basis points to
2.87 percent today, according to BGCantor Market Data. The yield
remains below the 2.96 percent level on Nov. 15, the highest
since Aug. 2.  “The sovereign situation in Europe is definitely hanging
over things a little bit and the back-up in Treasuries reminded
people that interest rates aren’t going to stay at 2 percent
forever,” said  Pete Brady , a high-yield bond trader at Gleacher
& Co., the New York-based broker-dealer. “Still, the economic
situation is very favorable for high-yield right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  