-- Florida Orange Crop May Be Reduced by La Nina Dry Spell, MDA's Tapley Says
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-11-19T18:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/florida-orange-crop-may-be-reduced-by-la-nina-dry-spell-mda-s-tapley-says.html
Orange output in Florida, the
world’s largest grower after Brazil, may be reduced as a La Nina
weather pattern brings an unusual dry spell, according to
forecaster MDA Information Systems Inc.  Abnormal dryness has expanded along the East Coast of
southern Florida and around Lake Okeechobee, the National
Drought Mitigation Center said in a report yesterday. Rainfall
in the state as of mid-November totaled 29.6 inches (75.2
centimeters) since the end of March, down 36 percent from the
five-year average, according to Bloomberg data.  “Even with irrigation, it will hurt crops,” said Kyle
Tapley, a meteorologist at Rockville, Maryland-based MDA.
Florida, with 483,418 acres (195,637 hectares) of orange groves,
had 10 percent to 30 percent of normal rainfall over the past 45
days, Tapley said.  Orange-juice futures are up 17 percent this year on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York, touching a three-year high of $1.657 a
pound on Sept. 22, partly on concern that a drought damaged
crops in Brazil.  Last month, the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimated
that domestic output will total 146 million boxes in the harvest
that began in October, up 9.3 percent from last season. A box of
oranges weighs about 90 pounds, or 41 kilograms.  “The actual crop size is going to be closer to 135 million
boxes,”  Jerry Neff , a branch manager at Allendale Inc. in
Bradenton, Florida, said today in an e-mail. The harvest will be
complete in July. “The weather has been very dry this season,
so the fruit is smaller than usual.”  La Nina weather events occur on average every three to five
years and can last nine to 12 months, according to the U.S.
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The pattern
usually brings warm, dry weather that probably will last through
February, EarthSat’s Tapley said.  “If it stays really dry, it’s bad,” said  Tom Spreen , a
professor at the University of Florida’s Food and Resource
Economics Department in Gainesville. Drought also may cause more
fruit to drop from trees, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 Lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 