-- Fortescue Metals Approves $8.4 Billion Investment to Expand Production
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-11-19T05:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/fortescue-approves-8-4-billion-iron-ore-expansion.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. ,
Australia’s third-biggest producer of iron ore, approved an $8.4
billion expansion in the Pilbara region to almost triple output
as demand from steelmakers gains.  The company may need to raise $4 billion in debt to fund
the expansion, Chief Financial Officer  Stephen Pearce  said on a
conference call. The remainder will be funded through  reserves 
and cash flow,  Andrew Forrest , the chief executive officer of
the Perth-based company, said today in a statement.  Fortescue joins Vale SA,  Rio Tinto Group  and  BHP Billiton
Ltd. , the world’s three biggest exporters, in announcing
expansions as prices increase. Producers are seeking to meet
demand from steel mills in China, where consumption of the alloy
is forecast by Rio Tinto to double by 2020 from 2008 levels.  “Fortescue will have to leverage their balance sheet,”
 Neil Goodwill , an analyst at Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia,
said by phone from Melbourne. “In that sense, Fortescue’s
expansion is more aggressive than BHP’s and Rio’s.”  Fortescue  dropped 0.5 percent to A$6.70 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of trade in Sydney, trimming its gain for the year to 51
percent compared with a 5 percent drop on the benchmark S&P/ASX
200 Index.  “The mix of external debt and cash flows will depend on
market factors including iron ore price,” Fortescue said.  Junk Bond  Any sale of bonds will add to the $2.04 billion of five-
year notes that Fortescue sold in October. That fund raising was
the biggest of junk-rated dollar bonds by an Australian company.
Under the terms of the sale, Fortescue said it’s “permitted to
incur additional indebtedness.”  The project will boost annual capacity to 155 million
metric tons from 55 million tons, Fortescue said, and involves
increasing output at Chichester, building a new mining hub at
Solomon, constructing 550 kilometers of railroad and expanding
port facilities at Port Hedland.  Iron ore prices have rebounded led by recovering
consumption in China. The average price for ore delivered to
China was $145 a metric ton in the first half, according to The
Steel Index. That’s more than double the average $69 a ton for
the same period last year.  Rio, the world’s second-largest iron ore exporter, aims to
increase production of the steelmaking ingredient to 330 million
tons by 2015, up from a current 230 million tons while
Melbourne-based BHP aims to nearly double iron ore output to 240
million tons a year by 2013. Vale aims to increase production to
522 million tons by 2015, up 68 percent from 2011’s projected
311 million tons.  Expansion Costs  Fortescue’s projected expansion costs of $85 a ton of iron
ore are “in line” with expectations and “slightly less” than
Rio Tinto’s,  Alex Passmore , head of metals and mining at
Patersons Securities Ltd., said by phone from Melbourne. He has
a “buy” rating on the stock and is the most accurate predictor
of Fortescue’s shares of 17 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  China will build 10 cities larger than New York by 2025 and
will need to import more steel, iron ore, coal, aluminum and
copper, Rio’s Chief Economist  Vivek Tulpule  said last month. The
nation’s economic growth will reach 10 percent in 2011, Caijing
Magazine said in October, citing a report issued by the Chinese
Academy of Social Sciences.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net  