-- FrontPoint Said to Be Closing Health-Care Hedge Funds After Alleged Tipoff
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2010-11-19T03:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/frontpoint-said-to-close-health-care-funds-after-probe-into-alleged-tips.html
FrontPoint Partners LLC plans to
close down its $1.5 billion health-care hedge funds after a
portfolio manager allegedly received tips about the results of
 Human Genome Sciences Inc.  trials for the drug Albuferon,
according to a person briefed on the firm’s plans.  The firm expects to return capital to clients before the
end of this month, said the person, who asked not to be named
because the funds are private.  Dr.  Yves Benhamou , 50, a French doctor and former adviser
to Rockville, Maryland-based Human Genome, was charged Nov. 2 by
prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  with insider trading and conspiracy. He was granted $3
million bail by a New York judge on Nov. 17.  FrontPoint, a Greenwich, Connecticut-based money-management
firm that’s being spun out of Morgan Stanley, said on Nov. 2 it
is “cooperating fully” with federal authorities. Dr.  Chip Skowron  the co-portfolio manager of the firm’s health-care funds
who allegedly received the tips from Benhamou, was placed on
leave pending the outcome of the probe, FrontPoint said.  The firm, which manages about $7 billion, and Skowron
haven’t been accused of wrongdoing.  Steve Bruce , a spokesman for
FrontPoint, declined to comment.  Benhamou, who was arrested this month in Boston, repeatedly
shared nonpublic information he gleaned from working for  Human
Genome  with a co-conspirator at an unnamed hedge fund,
prosecutors alleged in court papers. For example, on Jan. 18,
when the company asked Benhamou for advice on a news release to
disclose negative information about the Albuferon trial, he
immediately shared the development with his co-conspirator,
prosecutors said. The co-conspirator at the hedge fund seven
minutes later directed a trader at the fund by instant message
to “sell the HGSI” and “all of it,” prosecutors said.  SEC Lawsuit  The alleged tip allowed the fund to avoid about $30 million
in losses, according to a lawsuit filed by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission in early November against Benhamou.  Before joining FrontPoint, Skowron was an analyst at hedge
funds Millennium Partners LLC in New York and SAC Capital
Advisors LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, according to the firm’s
marketing documents.  Morgan Stanley , the sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets, is
spinning out FrontPoint four years after acquiring it as part of
a push into alternative assets. FrontPoint’s managers, led by
co-Chief Executive Officers  Daniel Waters  and  Michael Kelly ,
will gain a majority stake in the asset manager and replace New
York-based Morgan Stanley’s affiliates as the funds’ investment
adviser and general partner.  The FrontPoint Healthcare Flagship Fund returned 0.7
percent this year through September and 6.4 percent annualized
since inception in 2003, according to an investor letter. The
FrontPoint Healthcare Flagship Enhanced Fund rose 2.2 percent
this year and 9.2 percent a year since its 2006 start. The firm
also runs the FrontPoint Healthcare Horizons Fund.  Hedge funds climbed an average of 4.2 percent this year
through October, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katherine Burton  in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 