-- FTC Bans Mortgage-Relief Companies From Charging Advance Fees
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2010-11-19T19:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/ftc-bans-mortgage-relief-companies-from-charging-advance-fees.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
said today it would ban companies from charging advance fees to
consumers who seek help paying off their  mortgages .  Under the FTC rule, the fees can’t be collected until
customers receive a written offer from the lender that they find
acceptable, the FTC said.  Mortgage-relief businesses also can’t claim they’re
affiliated with the government and can’t say they’ll succeed in
getting a lender to modify a mortgage. The companies must
disclose that consumers who  stop paying  their mortgages could
damage their credit ratings or lose their homes.  Consumers are looking to ease the burden of their payments
in what the FTC has called a “mortgage crisis.” Foreclosures
on prime fixed-rate mortgages in the U.S. jumped to a 12-year
record in the third quarter, a result of  unemployment  straining
household budgets, the Mortgage Bankers Association said
yesterday.  “This rule will protect consumers from being victimized by
these scams,” FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  said in a statement.  ‘Pursue Justice’  The new rule was announced at a Washington news conference
today with Vice President  Joe Biden  as part of the latest Obama
administration plans to help middle-class and low-income
families having trouble paying their bills.  Other measures announced today included a project by the
Labor Department and the American Bar Association to assist
workers in resolving wage complaints and efforts to strengthen
mediation programs that help people avoid foreclosure.  “In difficult economic times, we want to make sure all
Americans, regardless of income or status, have access to the
resources they need to pursue justice,” Biden said.  In July, the FTC issued a rule barring companies from
getting advance fees before helping consumers pay off their
credit-card debt.  The new rule will prohibit mortgage-relief companies from
telling their customers to stop communicating with their lenders
and must have evidence backing up their claims about the
effectiveness of their services, according to the FTC.  The agency  proposed  the rule in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  