-- Gasoline Refining Margins Double on Outages: Energy Markets
-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k   a n d   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-11-19T21:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/gasoline-refining-margins-double-on-outages-french-strike-energy-markets.html
Refiners’ profit from turning oil
into gasoline more than doubled this month as plants along the
U.S. East Coast shut for repairs and imports from Europe
declined in the aftermath of a French strike.  The return from processing crude into motor fuel, the so-
called crack spread, fell to $10.72 a barrel today on the New
York Mercantile Exchange after Hess Corp. said it finished
repairs at its New Jersey refinery.  The spread reached $11.74 yesterday, the biggest margin
ever for this time of year, from $4.44 Nov. 8, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. East Coast refinery  run rates  fell to an
all-time low in October and  imports slid  to the least in a year,
the Energy Department said.  “We’re seeing the effects of both scheduled and
unscheduled refinery outages as well as lower imports,” said
 Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.
“In addition, permanent closures of refineries are beginning to
affect the balance of products in the Atlantic Basin. There is
no place to make up the shortfall.”  Gasoline for December delivery fell 3.23 cents to $2.196 a
gallon today. The premium of the December over the January
contract slipped to 6.89 cents after reaching 6.98 cents
yesterday, the widest gap for the two contracts closest to
expiration since August and the largest for this time of year
since at least 1987, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  European refinery throughput sank in October to 11.5
million barrels a day, a 19-year low, the International Energy
Agency said Nov. 12. French labor unrest forced 12 plants to
curtail output, boosting fuel prices across the continent and
curbing exports just as the maintenance season at U.S. refiners
began. ConocoPhillips, Irving Oil Corp., Sunoco Inc. and Hess
refineries with a combined capacity of 973,800 barrels a day
started repairs from September through early November.  Fuel Supplies Fall  U.S.  gasoline inventories  dropped in seven of the past
eight weeks, to 207.7 million barrels as of Nov. 12. They are
3.5 percent above the five-year average, from a 15 percent
surplus in September. On the East Coast, stockpiles fell 19
percent since September to 50.2 million barrels, a two-year low.  The shortage has boosted the New York Harbor spot market,
with reformulated gasoline for  prompt delivery  more than
quadrupling since Nov. 4 to 13 cents over futures yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the highest level since
September 2009. The premium fell to 11.5 cents today.  Imports  declined to 562,000 barrels a day, the least since
February 2004, according to the Energy Department. Shipments to
the East Coast fell to 491,000 barrels a day.  Refinery Rates  Regional refineries processed 845,000 barrels a day of oil
in the week ended Nov. 12, up from a record low of 766,000
barrels a day in the week ended Oct. 29, according to government
data that started in 1992.  “In aggregate, we still have excess capacity, but
regionally the East Coast has become tighter,” said  Antoine Halff , head of energy research at Newedge USA LLC in New York
and former principal administrator at the IEA. “That means it’s
more vulnerable.”  ConocoPhillips  is starting a crude unit at its 250,000-
barrel-a-day Bayway refinery in Linden, New Jersey, that was
shut in September for work, two people with knowledge of the
situation said Nov. 17.  Work at Irving Oil’s 298,800-barrel-a-day Saint John
refinery in New Brunswick is expected to be completed by the end
of the week,  Sam Robinson , a spokeswoman for the plant, said
Nov. 15.  Hess  is preparing to restart its Port Reading, New
Jersey, fluid catalytic cracker after repairs following a Nov.
10 power failure.  Sunoco Refinery  Sunoco  shut an alkylation unit Nov. 10, according to  Jeff Moran , a spokesman for Philadelphia’s health department. A
reformer and a hydrotreater were also shut for repairs until the
first week of December, a person familiar with the plans said.  “The refinery outages in the Northeast have really reduced
the selling compared with crude over the past few days,” said
 Matt Smith , a commodities analyst for Summit Energy in
Louisville, Kentucky.  Refinery closures in the East Coast and Europe have totaled
about 1.2 million barrels in the past two years, leaving less
spare capacity. Sunoco, Valero Energy Corp., Royal Dutch Shell
Plc and Western Refining Inc. shut 541,000 barrels a day of
refining in the East Coast and refiners idled about 660,000
barrels of capacity in Europe.  “Valero shut Delaware City, Sunoco shut Eagle Point, Shell
shut Montreal East and so the refinery capacity around the
periphery of the Northeast has been reduced over the last 12
months,” said  Tim Evans,  an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York.  Refiners with plants producing gasoline in the East Coast
that may benefit from the higher margins include Citgo Petroleum
Corp., ConocoPhillips and Sunoco.  Colonial Pipeline  The U.S. East Coast is more vulnerable to supply
disruptions and now has a greater dependency on pipelines that
link it with Gulf Coast production hubs, Halff said.  Colonial Pipeline Co., which operates the largest pipeline
linking U.S. Gulf Coast refineries to East Coast markets,
limited shipment on its main gasoline lines for the past eight
shipping cycles because demand exceeds capacity.  “The vulnerability that has crept up in the system doesn’t
come from the aggregated amount of refineries that have been
shut down or kept open,” Halff said. “It comes from the
redistribution geographically of capacity.”  The spread may narrow as refineries return from maintenance
and the rising premium in New York attracts European cargoes. At
least 10 cargoes have been booked this month to carry fuel to
the East Coast from Europe, as many as in all of October,
according to data from  Clarkson Research Services Ltd. , a unit
of the world’s biggest shipbroker.  “We finish refinery maintenance, particularly at the
ConocoPhillips Bayway refinery and Northeast supplies will pick
up again,” Evans said. “We finish restocking product
inventories in France following their refinery strikes in
October, and we might see more gasoline imports available.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net ;
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  