-- Gasoline Slips as China Increases Reserves to Curb Inflation
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2010-11-19T21:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/gasoline-declines-as-china-increases-reserves-to-curb-inflation.html
Gasoline fell, erasing a weekly
gain, after China ordered banks to increase reserves in an
attempt to slow inflation, threatening to curb fuel demand
growth.  Prices retreated after China ordered banks to maintain
larger reserves for the second time in two weeks, draining cash
from the financial system. The spread between December and
January futures contracts narrowed as ConocoPhillips and Hess
Corp. are restarting refinery units after repairs, which may
increase fuel production.  “We saw significant liquidation this week in reaction to
China’s move to stem inflation and the Irish debt crisis,” said
 Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.
“There may have been some profit-taking on gasoline. It did run
up this week because unscheduled outages on the East Coast
helped keep supplies tight.”  Gasoline for December delivery dropped 3.23 cents, or 1.4
percent, to settle at $2.196 a gallon on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. Prices dropped 0.6 percent this week, the first
decline in four weeks.  Prices touched $2.2505 before floor trading opened, then
fell after China said it would raise bank reserve ratios.
Gasoline surged 3.3 percent yesterday as stocks rose worldwide
on the prospect of a bailout of Ireland by the European Union.  “What’s giving the market direction is the bank situation
in China,” said  Bob Yawger , senior vice president for energy
futures at MF Global Inc. in New York.  Hess Refinery  The premium of gasoline over crude oil, or the crack
spread, based on December contracts, narrowed $1.02 to $10.72 a
barrel. The drop came after Hess Corp. said it had repaired a
fluid catalytic cracker at its 70,000 barrel-a-day Port Reading,
New Jersey, refinery.  In the previous three days, the December spread gained 60
percent, reaching $11.74 yesterday, the largest margin ever for
this time of the year. The January contract spread narrowed 88
cents to $7.36 a barrel, after jumping 50 percent the prior
three days.  The more actively traded January contract slipped 3.14
cents to settle at $2.1271 a gallon, and lost 1.8 percent this
week. The front-month contract narrowed its premium over January
futures to 6.89 cents from 6.98 cents yesterday.  “The backwardation in the gasoline market is reflective of
tight supply in the near term, and the tightness of supply will
continue for the next few weeks,” Lipow said.  Stockpiles Decline  Gasoline outperformed crude oil and heating oil this week
and last week and the spread between December and January
widened as U.S. East Coast stockpiles slipped to a two-year low.
The region contains New York Harbor, the delivery point for the
Nymex contract.  “A lot of the longs in the December to January contract
spread are getting out because December expires in a few days,”
said  Fred Rigolini , vice president of Paramount Options Inc. in
New York and a trader at the Nymex. “And gasoline is the most
vulnerable to come off because it went up the most last week.”  ConocoPhillips’s Bayway refinery in Linden, New Jersey,
which can produce 145,000 barrels a day of gasoline, has run at
reduced rates since late September for maintenance. Conoco
started a crude unit this week, two people with knowledge of the
situation said Nov. 17.  “We need to see these refiners up and running and these
cash prices come off” for the rally to be over, said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading and supply at Truman Arnold
Cos. in Texarkana, Texas. “We may be seeing just a little
profit-taking today. The spreads are still elevated.”  Heating oil for December delivery dropped 2.07 cents, or
0.9 percent, to settle at $2.2744 a gallon. Prices dropped 3.8
percent this week, the biggest weekly loss since August. The
heating oil crack spread, based on December contracts, declined
53 cents to $14.01 a barrel.  Regular gasoline at the pump , averaged nationwide, fell 0.5
cent to $2.883 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barbara Powell  in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 