-- Gates Urges Revamp of Teachers’ $59 Billion Pay Plans
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2010-11-19T17:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/gates-urges-revamping-teachers-59-billion-pay-to-reward-merit.html
Microsoft Corp . Chairman  Bill Gates 
urged top U.S. public-school officials to overhaul teacher pay,
saying taxpayers are spending $59 billion a year on compensation
plans that don’t improve student achievement.  Teachers should be rewarded for results, not for seniority
or advanced degrees, Gates said today in a speech to the  Council
of Chief State School Officers  in Louisville, Kentucky.
Revamping teacher pay will free up scarce money to help improve
educational performance, said Gates, co-chair of the $36.4
billion Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.  The speech marks the first time Gates has broached the
subject of state budgets in his quest to tie teacher pay to
academic results -- a goal he shares with the Obama
administration. His effort may pit him against teachers’ unions,
whose contracts generally provide higher pay for seniority and
advanced degrees.  “The effort to improve schools will be in the context of
very tight budgets,” Gates told the schools chiefs. “It’s
something you look at and think about every day. This conflict
of dealing with tough financial situations while making the
reforms that can improve student achievement has never been
tougher than it is right now.”  A 2008  survey  of members of the American Federation of
Teachers found that 87 percent supported awarding additional pay
on the basis of an advanced degree such as a master’s or
doctorate, and 82 percent said pay should be tied to seniority.
Twenty-one percent said compensation should be linked to gains
measured by standardized test results. The Washington-based
union represents 1.5 million members nationwide, according to
its website.  Seniority Privileges  Teacher seniority provisions make up 10 percent of school
expenditures, or $50 billion a year, according to research by
the Seattle-based Gates foundation. Giving teachers a pay bump
for getting master’s degrees costs $9 billion a year, the
foundation says. The two items account for one-quarter to one-
third of teacher compensation, the foundation estimates.  Pensions that let teachers retire as early as 48 years old
may also be too costly when budgets are tight, Bill Gates said
in the interview.  School systems will have to find the money for merit pay
from within existing budgets, Gates said. He suggested shifting
money set aside for rewarding teachers on the basis of seniority
or from those who attain advanced degrees. To study and develop
effective ways to award merit pay, the Gates foundation is
investing $290 million over seven years in the Tampa, Florida;
Memphis, Tennessee; and Pittsburgh school districts, as well as
a charter-school consortium in Los Angeles.  Class Size  Schools may also save money by increasing class size, Gates
said. U.S. student-teacher ratios dropped to 15-to-1 today from
26-to-1 in 1960, without improving student results, according to
the foundation. Schools would save more than $10,000 per
classroom by increasing class size by four pupils. They could
use the money to pay the best teachers more, according to the
foundation.  Increasing class size is likely to be unpopular with
parents and politicians,  Michelle Rhee , former chancellor of the
District of Columbia public schools, said in an interview
yesterday in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Data show that smaller
class sizes don’t necessarily improve student performance, she
said.  “If you reduce the number of teachers and provide money to
the most highly effective teachers to take on five more kids,
that probably ultimately is going to be the best utilization of
those resources,” Rhee said. “He’s absolutely right.”  While more effort is needed to improve student performance,
increasing public-school class sizes and shifting money from
more-experienced and more-educated teachers won’t help,  Randi Weingarten , president of the American Federation of Teachers,
said today in a statement.  ‘Culture of Collaboration’  “The school districts that have a strong culture of
collaboration and provide teachers with the support and
resources they need have both low teacher attrition and high
student performance,” Weingarten said.  Speaking on another aspect of the merit-pay debate, Gates,
in an interview, sided with the teachers’ union in a New York
City court battle over the release of individual teacher-
performance reports based on student test scores. The United
Federation of Teachers said the data is flawed and unfair and
asked a New York State court to block its release. News
organizations made freedom-of-information requests to release
and publish the data.  Test scores are useful only as one of many performance
measures and should be kept confidential by principals and
superintendents, Gates said in the interview.  To evaluate teachers, the foundation is looking at peer
review, student surveys and videotaping classrooms. Surveys show
teachers support well-crafted merit-pay plans, Gates said.  “If we magically had an evaluation system that was used
somewhere -- that teachers spoke highly of -- it would help it
spread,” Gates said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Hechinger  in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;
 Esmé E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  