-- GM’s European Unit Mulls Motor Sport Comeback to Bolster Image
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-11-19T13:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/general-motor-s-european-unit-mulls-motor-sport-comeback-to-bolster-image.html
General Motors Co.  said it may enter
the  World Rally Championship  for the first time in more than 20
years and boost its presence in touring-car races to bolster the
image and selling prices of European brands Opel and Vauxhall.  Success in motor sport would increase the appeal of GM’s
models to younger buyers after its image was tarnished by a $50
billion government bailout,  Nick Reilly , president of the U.S.
company’s European operations, said in a briefing in last night.  “Sport is an important area, and to me, a car company ought
to be able to compete,” Reilly said in London. “It’s very
significant to us, the brand image, and in our view it’s not as
strong as the product. We’re winning lots of awards but Opel and
Vauxhall probably don’t command the prices they deserve.”  GM Europe is looking most seriously at touring-car events,
in which standard sedans compete on racing circuits and where
the U.S.-based Chevrolet unit has just clinched its first world
championship, the executive said. A return to rallying, which
takes place on public roads and gravel tracks, would cost more.  Carmakers have been exiting racing in recent years. Subaru
and Suzuki Motor Corp. quit the World Rally Championship in 2008
as the slump crimped sales, while Honda Motor Co., Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG and Toyota Motor Corp. have withdrawn from
Formula One, the world’s richest and most-watched motor sport.  No decision has been taken on which events to enter, but
the preference is for those featuring cars that customers can
buy from the showroom, Reilly said. GM has no interest in F1,
which features purpose-built autos not available for purchase.  ‘Very Excited’  “I get very excited by touring car racing and I think it’s
done the Chevrolet brand quite a bit of help in some places,”
Reilly said. GM secured its first  World Touring Car Championship 
last month with a Chevrolet Cruze driven by Yvan Muller. The
model also won the 2010 British Touring Car Championship, in
which U.K.-based Vauxhall last entered a company team in 2009.  Opel, based in Ruesselsheim, Germany -- where Reilly said
raising prices poses a “big challenge” -- is considering
entering that country’s touring-car championship, the Deutsche
Tourenwagen Masters, spokeswoman Uta Deutsch said in an e-mail.  Competing in the World Rally Championship is “another
possibility,” though a more expensive option, Reilly said.  For the past two years the WRC has had only two competing
manufacturers, Ford Motor Co. and France’s PSA Peugeot Citroen.
The 2010 championship ended on Nov. 14 with Frenchman  Sebastien Loeb  lifting the title for the seventh time in a Citroen C4.
Finn Jari-Matti Latvala finished second in a Ford Focus.  GM Europe has “a chance” of making money in 2011, excluding
reorganization costs, after a loss of about $1.9 billion this
year, and the division won’t risk extending losses through a
premature return to motor sport, Reilly said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  