-- General Motors Loses `GM' Ticker in Canada to Miner, Tries to Get It Back
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2010-11-19T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/general-motors-loses-gm-ticker-in-canada-tries-to-get-it-back.html
Michael England, the chief executive
officer of  Geo Minerals Ltd. , was surprised when Canada’s junior
stock exchange offered him the ticker symbol GM before his
mining company went public in 2007. Now he says the “other” GM
wants it back.  General Motors Co., which used the GM ticker in Canada from
1972 until it delisted from the Toronto Stock Exchange in 2005,
has offered to pay Vancouver-based Geo Minerals to change its
ticker, England said.  “They did call a few times, asking about the symbol” as
recently as last month, England said in an interview yesterday
as GM resumed trading following its $20 billion IPO. “We never
really came to anything out of it.”  GM trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the GM
ticker, as it did before going through bankruptcy protection. In
Canada, it settled for the symbol GMM.  “We would have liked to have used that symbol, but it was
already taken,” said Jason Easton, a spokesman for GM Canada.
“I don’t think it’s a problem. Our ticker symbol here is GMM,
and we know our investors are informed.”  It would be hard to confuse the two companies. General
Motors is one of the world’s largest manufacturers, with  $105
billion  in sales last year, 209,000 employees and a market value
of $51.3 billion.  Geo Minerals, a copper miner, has a market value of C$3.75
million ($3.68 million) and paid its chief financial officer
C$17,500 last year. Its IPO raised less than one-20,000th the
amount of GM’s, and the stock closed yesterday at 7 cents.
General Motors closed at $34.01 on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  Warranty Calls  Still, the ticker symbol does mix up a few people, said
England, whose company owns a  zinc, gold and copper project  in
northern British Columbia and parts of four copper projects in
Arizona.  “Over the years, we do get random calls, people calling
about warranties and stuff, down south in the States,” England
said. “We have to tell them, ‘No, we’re not them.’”  When Geo Minerals listed on the TSX Venture Exchange, the
symbol GEO was in use by Polaris Geothermal Inc., which was
purchased by Ram Power Corp. last year.  “When we were IPO’ing, they asked me for what symbols
would I like to have,” England said. “They got me to send them
a couple of choices in case they were taken. I thought ‘Oh, GM!
Wouldn’t that be funny!’ And I got it! I was so surprised!”  No rules prevent a company from choosing a ticker symbol
that is another firm’s name, as long as the symbol hasn’t been
used in Canada for at least a year, said  Carolyn Quick , a
spokeswoman for the Toronto exchange.  Not GE  In Canada, the symbol GE belongs to Granville Pacific
Capital Corp., which owns three residential care facilities in
British Columbia. CBS is the symbol of Bard Ventures Inc., an
oil and gas explorer formerly called Consolidated Bard Silver &
Gold Ltd.  Unique Broadband Systems Inc. , which has no active
operations, trades under the symbol UBS.  The exchange owns the symbols, Quick said. A company can
request a new symbol for C$1,000, according to the  TSX Company
Manual .  Easton declined to comment on England’s statement that GM
has inquired about buying the rights to the GM symbol.  England said he’s still willing to make a deal.  “The door is open, definitely,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   Sean Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  