-- Germany's De Maiziere Says Suspect Bag in Namibia Was U.S. Test Device
-- B y   A n g e l a   C u l l e n
-- 2010-11-19T12:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/germany-s-de-maiziere-says-suspect-bag-in-namibia-was-u-s-test-device.html
A suspected bomb found in a bag at a
Namibian airport two days ago didn’t contain explosives and was
a mockup device made by a U.S. company designed to expose lax
security, German Interior Minister  Thomas de Maiziere  said.  Officials at Germany’s Federal Criminal Office, or BKA,
traveled to Windhoek to examine the luggage and concluded that
the contraption was a dummy, de Maiziere said at a conference in
Hamburg televised by N-TV today.  Such devices “are intended to uncover security gaps,” he
said. The U.S. firm, which he didn’t name, makes alarm and
detection systems. The BKA is continuing its probe to try and
determine who placed the baggage there, he said.  The incident occurred as German authorities stepped up
security at airports and railway stations after receiving
“concrete indications” that Islamist extremists plan to stage
an attack in the country later this month. Germany sent a team
of experts to Namibia after police discovered the suspect device
including a detonator in baggage that was about to be loaded
onto a plane bound for Munich.  The device contained batteries wired to a working clock and
a detonator inside a bag booked on an Airbus SAS LTU/Air Berlin
flight from the Namibian capital this week, the BKA said.  ‘New Threat Level’  De Maiziere said this week that the government was
compelled to issue a warning of a “new threat level” as a
result of intelligence from an unidentified foreign partner and
domestic Islamist groups. Germany is preparing for the
possibility of terrorists entering the country to commit suicide
bombings, he said.  The device in Windhoek was found in a laptop bag during a
routine check, Sebastian Ndeitunga, the inspector general of the
Namibian Police, said on Namibian Broadcasting Corp. radio. The
bag was sealed and unaccompanied, he said.  Yasmin Born, an  Air Berlin  spokeswoman, said the piece of
luggage wasn’t necessarily destined for the carrier’s plane
because it didn’t have a label and was sitting in a building
together with bags meant for other flights.  Passengers and luggage were subjected to further searches
before the Air Berlin flight was allowed to depart, the BKA
said. The airplane later arrived safely  in Munich .  The German government’s warning followed a worldwide terror
alert last month after bombs were found in air-cargo shipments.
One bomb, packed inside a printer cartridge, was timed to
explode on a flight as it reached the U.S. East Coast.  That device, which originated in Yemen and was discovered
at the U.K.’s East Midlands airport on Oct. 29, passed through
Germany via Cologne/Bonn airport. A second bomb was found in
Dubai. Both were addressed to synagogues in Chicago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Cullen in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  