-- GM Europe's Reorganization Is Ahead of Schedule, Division Head Reilly Says
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-11-19T09:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/gm-europe-s-reorganization-is-ahead-of-schedule-division-head-reilly-says.html
General Motors Co. ’s European
division is reorganizing faster than planned as higher car
prices help limit losses this year, according to  Nick Reilly ,
the head of the unit.  The division, which includes the Opel brand based in
Ruesselsheim, Germany, and Vauxhall in the U.K., will lose $1.9
billion in 2010, compared with a forecast loss of $3 billion at
the beginning of the year, Reilly told reporters last night in
London. He reiterated that the business has “a chance” of
making money in 2011, excluding reorganization costs.  “We are considerably ahead in the underlying business,”
Reilly said. “We have more volume, and average transaction
prices have gone up based on new products.”  GM Europe is the only unprofitable division of General
Motors following the Detroit-based carmaker’s reorganization
that included shuttering or selling four brands worldwide. Opel
and Vauxhall have revamped their Astra compact and introduced
the Insignia sedan as they struggle to gain back market share
after GM unsettled potential car buyers last year when it
considered selling the automakers.  The U.S. company pledged in February to invest 11 billion
euros ($15 billion) in Opel and Vauxhall through 2014 to make
them more competitive. General Motors returned to the stock
market yesterday in an initial public offering exceeding $20
billion, 16 months after emerging from Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection in the U.S. The IPO was the country’s second-largest
ever, after Visa Inc.’s $19.7 billion sale in March 2008.  The biggest challenge for GM in Europe, especially in
Germany, is improving the brands’ reputation after the division
sought government aid, Reilly said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  