-- GM Bailout Losses Worthwhile for Obama as IPO Shrinks Cost to $9 Billion
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-11-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/gm-s-bailout-losses-worthwhile-for-obama-as-ipo-shrinks-cost.html
General Motors Co.’s  initial public
offering showed that while U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration may lose billions on the auto-industry bailout,
the national budget and economy might be better off for it.  The U.S. sold almost half of its  stake  in the nation’s
largest automaker for $33 a share -- about $10 less than it
needs to break even. The remaining shares will need to sell for
about $20 higher to make up the difference. GM opened at $35 and
stayed within $1.11 of that  price  all day. Selling the remaining
shares at that price would produce a loss of about $9 billion.  That may go down as a bargain. The U.S. would have lost
$28.6 billion in spending on social services and missing tax
revenue if not for the bailout of GM, its former lending arm and
Chrysler Group LLC, according to a study released Nov. 17 by the
Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Michigan.  “GM ends up an economic contributor to the U.S. economy,”
said  Barry Ritholtz , author of “Bailout Nation” and chief
executive officer of New York investment research firm FusionIQ.
“It’s manufacturing products, it’s creating jobs, it’s buying
wholesale parts, it’s doing what an industrial company is
supposed to do.”  Since the Treasury sold almost half of its stake at $33 a
share, the government needs future offerings to sell for an
average of $53.07 a share to break even, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  GM rose $1.19, or 3.6 percent, to $34.19 yesterday in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading .  Recouping Investment  The aid to GM and Chrysler was politically unpopular. In an
Oct. 7-10 Bloomberg National Poll, 41 percent of adults said
they believed the automaker bailout would weaken the economy,
while 34 percent said it would strengthen the economy. About 45
percent of likely voters said they were less likely to support a
congressional candidate who voted in favor of the aid.  “The American taxpayer should never be compelled to
finance a corporate bailout, even if it may produce short-term
benefits,” Senator  Richard Shelby , an Alabama Republican, said
in an e-mail.  GM wants to get rid of the government as a shareholder as
well. Chairman  Ed Whitacre  said in August that he was eager for
the U.S. to sell its shares because it would boost employee
morale and help Detroit-based GM sell more vehicles.  “We don’t like this label of Government Motors,” said
Whitacre, 69.  ‘Obama Number’  The Treasury needs to sell  GM’s  stock for an average of
$43.67 a share to recoup the $49.5 billion investment, including
the $13.4 billion that the Bush administration put into GM.
While planning the IPO, the Obama administration calculated that
GM stock would need to sell for $29.15 a share, referred to as
“the Obama number,” to recover just what it invested in GM, said
two people familiar with the matter.  The government may lose $5 billion to $7 billion on its
rescue of the auto industry,  Steven Rattner , the former head of
the U.S. Automotive Task Force, said in a Nov. 17 interview on
Bloomberg Radio.  The government has said it will collect $9.5 billion in
loan payments, interest and preferred stock dividends from GM.
The Treasury has agreed with GM’s underwriters not to sell more
shares for six months.  GM will have a harder time winning high prices when the
Treasury goes back to the market to sell more stock, said
 Maryann Keller , who runs a self-named consulting firm in
Stamford, Connecticut. There will be less hype and investors
will have more information to use when making investment
decisions, she said.  ‘Next Time Around’  “You will probably need continuous improvement in the
stock market,” Keller said. “Everything will have to be firing
on all cylinders the next time around.”  Obama and his advisers figured the government may lose as
much as half of its investment as they evaluated options for the
automaker in early 2009, two people familiar with the
deliberations said yesterday. They decided to save the carmakers
because the cost of losing so much of the auto industry was too
grave, the people said.  There was a lot of concern that job losses would continue,
costing the nation, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the discussions were private. The administration thought
that Michigan’s  unemployment  fund could go broke and require the
federal government to pick up the bill, one of the people said.  At the time, Evercore Partners, a New York financial
advisory firm that counseled GM on the IPO, gave a fairness
opinion that said the U.S. and Canadian governments would be
putting up a combined $59 billion for a company worth $38
billion, said a person familiar with the study.  Breakeven Scenario  Now that GM is profitable and paying off  debt , the
automaker and its bankers can see a scenario when the stock gets
above $50 a share and allows the government to break even, said
one of the people familiar with the situation.  Obama said yesterday at the White House that taxpayers are
in a position to recoup more than his administration put into
GM. Letting the U.S. auto industry fail was an unacceptable
option that would have resulted in “economic chaos” and
devastated communities across the country, he said.  “We are finally beginning to see some of these tough
decisions that we made in the midst of crisis pay off,” Obama
said. “And I am absolutely confident that we’re going to keep on
making progress.”  Reduced Debt  The government-sponsored bankruptcy reduced GM’s
obligations and helped it become profitable in a below-average
U.S. auto market. Before entering bankruptcy on June 1, 2009, GM
had $54.4 billion in  debt  and owed an additional $20 billion to
a retiree health-care trust managed by the United Auto Workers.
GM had $88 billion in  losses  from the end of 2004 until going
into bankruptcy.  GM now owes $15.6 billion in debt and preferred stock and
$9.4 billion in underfunded retiree obligations. The company has
made $4.77 billion in the first three quarters of this year. The
old General Motors Corp. hadn’t made so much in the first nine
months of a year since 1999 when it earned $5.75 billion.  Ford Motor Co. , based in Dearborn, Michigan, has been the
world’s most profitable automaker this year, with net income of
$6.37 billion. The shares have surged 61 percent this year and
earlier this week reached the highest intraday price since June
2002.  “There is a lot of optimism and confidence in GM these
days,” GM Chief Executive Officer  Dan Akerson  said yesterday on
a conference call. “There is something else too. We know how we
arrived here. We know what went wrong, and I believe we’ve
learned a lot from that. We know who stood by us in our most
difficult time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 