-- State Tax Revenue Grew 6% in Third Quarter, Outlook Improved, Goldman Says
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2010-11-19T17:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/goldman-sachs-study-says-state-revenue-grew-6-in-third-quarter.html
States’ tax revenue grew about 6
percent in the three months ended in Sept. 30,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  estimated, the third consecutive quarterly increase
as the U.S. climbed out of the longest recession since the Great
Depression.  The firm said its economists examined receipts from 16
states accounting for more than half of nationwide collections.
The year-over-year gain in the period appeared to continue into
the fourth quarter, it said.  “The outlook for the state and local sector has improved
over the last several months, as revenues have picked up or at
least stabilized in most states,”  Alec Phillips  said in the
note to clients today.  The gain may help states close budget deficits that will
likely total $140 billion in fiscal 2012, the Washington-based
Center on Budget and Policy Priorities said in a  report  on Oct.
7. An 18-month recession that was declared over in June 2009
shrunk state tax collections by 8.4 percent in fiscal 2009 and
3.1 percent in fiscal 2010, the report said.  The third-quarter gain in tax collections would be the
third consecutive after five quarters of decline, based on a
 report  by the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government.  Revenue grew by 2.5 percent in the first quarter and 2.3
percent in the second, according to the Albany, New York-based
institute. Rockefeller estimated on Oct. 19 that revenue rose
2.8 percent in the first two months of the third quarter.  Stimulus Funds  Goldman’s Phillips said the loss of federal stimulus funds
and further declines in property-tax receipts will continue to
drag on state and local finances. To make up for the end of
federal aid through the  American Reinvestment and Recovery Act ,
which will stop around mid-2011, state tax revenues would have
to grow about 8 percent, he said.  At the local level, a recovery in property-tax revenue, the
main source of income for municipalities, will likely lag behind
that of other taxes by more than a year, Phillips wrote.  “While the outlook for the state and local sector has
improved, it is still far from good,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 