-- Governors See Republicans' Midwest Gains as Path to Presidency in 2012
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-11-19T05:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/governors-see-republicans-gains-in-midwest-as-path-to-presidency-in-2012.html
Republican governors meeting in San
Diego said yesterday their statehouse victories in the Midwest
leave the party well positioned for 2012 in the battlefield that
often determines the presidency.  The party watched Democrat  Barack Obama  all but clean the
region’s electoral table in the 2008 presidential race, winning
every state except Missouri. On Nov. 2, Republicans claimed four
Midwestern governors’ offices that had been held by Democrats.  “We are the heartland, we represent common sense, we are
the heartbeat of the country,”  John Kasich , the  Ohio  governor-
elect who defeated Democrat  Ted Strickland , said at a news
conference at the Republican Governors Association annual
meeting. The Midwestern gains were celebrated at the meeting as
a key element of the party’s revival and its bid to recapture
the White House.  Scott Walker , who will take over as  Wisconsin ’s governor in
January, said he doesn’t expect Obama to alter his policies in
response to the Nov. 2 electoral defeats.  “If this economy stays moribund like it is today, Obama’s
not going to be re-elected,” Kasich predicted. “Why do we
matter? Because our states are all in trouble.”  The economy has battered the Midwest, delivering jobless
rates as high as  Michigan ’s 13 percent in September, which
compared with the  national average  of 9.6 percent that month.  In addition to winning governors’ offices from Democrats in
Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin and Iowa, the Republican Party rolled
to legislative dominance in Indiana, Michigan, Ohio and
Wisconsin.  Such change is a reason to be cautious about what the
electorate may do in 2012, said  Indiana  Republican Governor
 Mitch Daniels , who is considering a presidential bid.  “It could just as easily move back in the other
direction,” Daniels said in an interview.  Nonetheless, Indiana, which went with Obama in 2008, had a
jobless rate of 10.1 percent in September.  It would be a “very tall order” for Obama to win the
state again, Daniels said. “A lot of people are in play and in
flux, and they proved their independence this time,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Jones  in San Diego at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Palmeri  in San Diego at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 