-- Groupon Said to Weigh Sale to Google, Raise Funding
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2010-11-19T21:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/groupon-said-to-weigh-sale-to-google-against-raising-funds-for-coupon-site.html
Groupon Inc. is weighing whether to
sell itself to Google Inc. or to proceed with a round of
fundraising that may value the daily coupon company at more than
$3 billion, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Google and Groupon have held talks about an acquisition,
said the people, who asked to remain anonymous because the
discussions are private. Groupon  management  met this week and is
leaning toward a sale, though the company may take until the end
of the year to make a final decision, one of the people said.  Groupon, a Chicago-based startup, would give Google more of
the $133 billion U.S. local advertising market and help it
benefit from surging demand for coupons, sent via the Web, for
products and services. Google Chief Executive Officer  Eric Schmidt  is stepping up the pace of acquisitions to spur growth
and keep from losing business as Facebook Inc., the largest
social networking service, adds features and lures Web surfers.  Groupon earlier held failed negotiations with Yahoo! Inc.
and may not clinch a deal with Mountain View, California-based
Google, the people said. Groupon may become Google’s most
expensive target. In 2008, the Web search leader paid $3.2
billion for DoubleClick Inc., an online advertising provider.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Groupon, didn’t respond to
a request for comment.  Aaron Zamost , a spokesman for Google, and
 Dana Lengkeek , a Yahoo spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Technology blog AllThingsDigital  earlier today reported  that
Google is holding talks to buy Groupon.  Schmidt Goes Shopping  David Lawee , Google’s mergers and acquisitions head, said
in an interview this month that the company is likely to buy
more companies about the size of YouTube and DoubleClick to help
offer more online services. He didn’t discuss potential targets.
Google paid $1.65 billion for YouTube, a video site, in 2006.  Google fell $5.73, or 1 percent, to $590.83 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . It has dropped 4.7
percent this year.  Schmidt is using takeovers to lessen his company’s reliance
on ads placed alongside search results and move into new areas,
such as display and mobile marketing messages.  Google  has accelerated its dealmaking in 2010, spending
$1.6 billion on more than 20 companies in the first nine months
of the year, according to  regulatory filings . Google also agreed
to buy travel data aggregator ITA Software Inc. for about $700
million earlier this year.  Groupon’s Growth  An April investment in Groupon by a group led by Digital
Sky Technologies gave the company a valuation of about $1.3
billion. Owners say the company is worth more now because it’s
growing faster than other new companies.  Yahoo  recently
discussed an acquisition with Groupon before talks unraveled
over price, according to people familiar with the matter.  Groupon  sends daily messages to users in 300 markets in 29
countries, offering steep discounts on products and services
ranging from cupcakes to yoga classes, dinner cruises to dental
exams. Groupon keeps a 50 percent cut of every deal sold, while
the business benefits from a rise in new customers. Deals, known
as groupons, activate when a certain number is sold, encouraging
users to recommend offers to friends.  Local advertising through media including newspapers,
direct mail, radio and the Internet will reach $133 billion in
the U.S. this year, according to BIA/Kelsey, a consulting firm.  Since May, Groupon has doubled the number of markets it
serves. Sales may top $500 million this year, two people
familiar with the matter have said. Groupon would reach that
milestone faster than  Google  and  Amazon.com Inc.  did.  Copycats  The company could use financial backing to help it add on-
the-ground salespeople to enlist the local businesses, including
nail salons, restaurants and coffee shops, that provide its more
than 400 daily deals. It’s hiring about 150 people a month and
about 80 percent of the total work in sales roles, Groupon
President Rob Solomon said in an interview last week.  Lookalikes such as  LivingSocial  aim to capitalize on the
growing popularity of daily deals and could become a threat to
Groupon. The site has also become a victim of its own success,
with some small companies becoming overwhelmed by the sudden
surge in new business spawned by Groupon offers.  Groupon has raised a total of $170 million from investors,
which include Facebook backer Accel Partners and New Enterprise
Associates. Founded in  November 2008 , the Chicago-based company
was profitable after about eight months,  Chief Executive Officer 
 Andrew Mason  told Bloomberg TV in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  