-- Guinea's Security Used Excessive Force After Election, Rights Groups Say
-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 2010-11-19T17:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/guinea-s-security-used-excessive-force-after-election-rights-groups-say.html
Guinea ’s security forces used
excessive force in post-election violence that left seven people
dead and may exacerbate tension unless they are reined in, said
advocacy groups including  Amnesty International .  “Unless the Guinean authorities put an immediate stop to
the unlawful killings, arbitrary arrests and excessive use of
force by its military and police, there is a risk that the
country will be plunged into a situation which could give rise
to further serious human-rights abuses,” Gaetan Mootoo, a
researcher at the London-based group, said in an e-mail today.  Ethnic clashes flared across the West African country after
 Alpha Conde , who draws his support from the Malinke, the second-
largest ethnic group, was declared the winner of a Nov. 7 runoff
presidential election. His rival, former Prime Minister  Cello Dalein Diallo , has contested the results. Diallo was largely
supported by the Peul, the country’s largest ethnic group.  Security forces “disproportionately attacked members of
the Peul population,”  Corinne Dufka , a researcher with New
York-based  Human Rights Watch , said in a phone interview from
Conakry, Guinea’s capital. “Ethnic tensions remain very high.”
The Peul represent 40 percent of the country’s 10.3 million
people and the Malinke account for 30 percent, according to the
website of the CIA’s  World Factbook .  State of Emergency  Calm returned to the country today, two days after a state
of emergency was declared following the seven deaths and the
wounding of at least 240 people. A curfew has been imposed and
the army has been deployed across the country. Security forces
are “aggressively patrolling” and continue to fire weapons in
the air to disperse groups of Peul youth, Dufka said.  Guinea hasn’t had a democratic transfer of power since it
gained independence from France in 1958. The country holds as
much as half of the world’s reserves of bauxite, an ore used to
make aluminum. It also has more than 4 billion metric tons of
“high-grade” iron ore and “significant” deposits of diamonds
and gold, according to the U.S. State Department.  Companies operating in Guinea include Russia’s  United Co.
Rusal , the world’s largest aluminum producer,  AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. , Africa’s biggest gold miner, and Brazil’s  Vale SA , the No.
1 iron-ore producer.  In a first round of voting on June 27 Diallo won 39.72
percent of the vote to Conde’s 20.67 percent. In the Nov. 7
runoff, Conde, 72, surged to 52.52 percent, while Diallo
received 47.48 percent.  ‘Incredible’ Swing  Such a large swing of votes in Conde’s favor in the second
round was “absolutely incredible,” said Tibor Nagy Jr., a
former U.S. ambassador to Guinea from 1996 to 1999. “I think
it’s going to be extremely messy unless there is some real deal-
making.”  The country’s Supreme Court is due to decide on Diallo’s
election challenge next week, at which point violence may
reignite, Nagy said. The United Nations urged Guineans to accept
the results of the election in a statement Nov. 16, asking them
to “resolve any differences through legal means.”  Guinea has faced political instability since a group of
military officers took power in December 2008 following the
death of former President  Lansana Conte , who had ruled for 24
years. General  Sekouba Konate  became the leader of the junta in
December 2009 after an aide shot the 2008 coup leader,  Moussa Dadis Camara , in the head.  Defense Minister  Konate said today he is willing to take up the post of
defense minister if the country’s new president offers him the
job, Agence France-Presse reported.  Special forces and the presidential guard, known as the red
berets fired on crowds with live ammunition this week, the UN’s
Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights said. One
hospital treated 140 people for bullet wounds, the Geneva-based
body said in an e-mailed statement. The OHCHR has documented
“numerous” allegations of human-rights violations in Guinea,
it said.  Security forces killed at least 150 democracy activists who
demonstrated in Conakry in September 2009 and raped dozens of
women. None of those involved has been prosecuted.  “The security forces have a long history of responding to
unrest with excessive force,” said Dufka. “They behave as if
they know they will get away with it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason McLure  in Accra on 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 