-- Michigan Town's Bankruptcy Bid a Harbinger, Governor-Elect Says
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2010-11-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/michigan-town-s-bankruptcy-bid-a-harbinger-of-trouble-governor-elect-says.html
Michigan  Governor-elect  Rick Snyder 
said a Detroit suburb’s effort to enter bankruptcy is an “early
indicator” of the depth of financial trouble faced by hundreds
of communities in the state.  There are “wealthy communities that are not in that
different a position” from  Hamtramck , said Snyder, a Republican
who is a former computer-company executive.  “They simply haven’t had the day of reckoning arrive yet
that is liable to happen in the next two or three years, with
the way property tax revenues are going,” Snyder said yesterday
in an interview at the  Republican Governors Association  meeting
in San Diego.  Hamtramck, a former Polish-American enclave that adjoins
Detroit, sought the approval of Michigan treasury officials last
week to file for Chapter 9 bankruptcy, the Detroit Free Press
reported. The city warned that a tax dispute with Detroit means
that it faces a deficit of at least $3 million and will run out
of money by Jan. 31, the newspaper said.  Chapter 9 bankruptcy 
would let the city extend debt maturities, reduce principal or
interest or to refinance, according to the Administrative Office
of U.S. Courts.  Democratic Governor  Jennifer Granholm  said Nov. 17 that
bankruptcy is a poor option for the city and proposed state
loans or a bond authorization to keep it afloat. Hamtramck
officials plan to seek a meeting with Michigan’s treasurer to
press the idea, the Bond Buyer reported yesterday.  Stressed-Out Cities  Hamtramck’s situation speaks to the broader issue of
municipalities under stress from foreclosures, investment losses
and unfunded pension liabilities. In Michigan, where the
September  unemployment  rate was 13 percent, the city of Detroit
and the state-controlled Detroit Public Schools have each
considered bankruptcy.  At the same time, the state faces a projected budget
deficit of $1.4 billion, according to an analysis by the
Michigan Senate Fiscal Agency. In 2008, there were 68
communities with deteriorating financial conditions, the state’s
Treasury Department said.  The list is much longer now because of financial damage
from the recession, said Snyder, 52, former chairman and
presidents of Gateway Inc. He said he wants to develop an early-
warning system to deal with municipal finance crises before they
spin out of control.  “The most challenging period is probably about 2013 to
’15,” Snyder said. “Literally, there could be hundreds of
jurisdictions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Jones  in San Diego at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  