-- Tiger Woods's Popularity May Rise With Return to Winning, Seton Hall Says
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2010-11-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/tiger-woods-s-popularity-may-rise-with-return-to-winning-seton-hall-says.html
Tiger Woods  may reverse the slide in
his approval rating with a return to winning ways, the Seton
Hall poll said.  Woods has a 40 percent unfavorable rating a year after his
personal and professional life began to unravel, the survey
found.  “Winning can turn people’s opinions around,” said  Rick Gentile , director of the Seton Hall Sports Poll. “We wouldn’t
be surprised to see a few early season wins tip this in a more
favorable direction.”  Woods will end 2010 without a win after he failed last week
to retain his Australian Masters title. A torrid year for the
14-time major winner saw him divorced, dropped by sponsors and
losing the world No. 1 ranking he held for a record 281
consecutive weeks after he admitted to repeated marital
infidelity.  While Woods has a 39 percent approval rating -- compared
with 45 percent for his rival  Phil Mickelson  -- Indianapolis
Colts quarterback  Peyton Manning  drew a 65 percent favorable
score, the poll said.  Others with high approval include New York Yankees
shortstop  Derek Jeter , who got a 50 percent favorable rating
from the 770 Americans polled, and  Kobe Bryant  of the Los
Angeles Lakers, at 49 percent.  Minnesota Vikings quarterback  Brett Favre  polled at 49
percent, while  LeBron James  of the Miami Heat came in at 40
percent.  By comparison, former San Francisco Giants slugger  Barry Bonds , who is accused of lying before a federal grand jury about
the use of performance-enhancing drugs, has an approval rating
of 23 percent.  NFL Issues  Only 19 percent of respondents said unnecessary roughness
in the National Football League merits ejection from a game.  “It’s become a hot button issue for the NFL,” Gentile
said. “Fans seem divided on tough versus lenient action by the
league on it.”  A fine and suspension was the preferred punishment for 29
percent of those polled, while 16 percent wanted a fine and 20
percent a 15-yard penalty.  The use of replays makes NFL games more enjoyable for 65
percent of fans, while 14 percent feel it detracts from the
action, the poll said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  