-- Julian Robertson Says Fed Should Stop New Easing, Cut Deficit: Tom Keene
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-11-19T19:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/tiger-s-robertson-opposes-fed-s-second-round-of-asset-purchases-tom-keene.html
Julian Robertson , founder of hedge
fund Tiger Management LLC, said he opposes the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s second round of government-bond purchases and favors
cutting the deficit instead.  “We’re not in danger of a big depression at the present
time, and we’ve got to get our house in order and we’re not
doing it by printing money,” Robertson said in an interview
today on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “I want us to save. I think it’s absurd we have no
inheritance tax anymore. I think it’s absurd that the Senate
majority leader says that it’s not worth listening to  Erskine Bowles  and Senator Simpson. We’ve got to confront these
problems.”  Bowles, former chief of staff to President  Bill Clinton ,
and  Alan Simpson , a Republican and former Wyoming senator, are
co-chairmen of President  Barack Obama ’s commission to
reduce the budget deficit. On Nov. 10, they proposed a $3.8
trillion deficit-cutting plan that would trim Social Security
and Medicare, reduce income-tax rates and eliminate tax breaks
including the mortgage-interest deduction. Democratic House
Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  called the targeting of Social Security and
Medicare “simply unacceptable.”  The Fed began buying $600 billion of Treasuries last week,
expanding its record stimulus measures in an attempt to reduce
9.6 percent unemployment and boost economic growth. It purchased
$1.7 trillion of securities under a program that ended in March.
Policy makers bought $8.2 billion of government debt today as
part of its so-called quantitative easing plan.  Robertson, 78, started Tiger in 1980 and built it into one
of the world’s largest hedge-fund managers by the late 1990s. He
no longer oversees money for clients and invests his own money
in about 40 independent hedge funds that he advises in exchange
for a share of profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  