-- Illovo to Sell Worm-Killer to Counteract Falling Sugar Profits, CEO Says
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-19T07:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/illovo-to-sell-worm-killer-to-counteract-falling-sugar-profits-ceo-says.html
Illovo Sugar Ltd. , Africa’s biggest
producer of the sweetener, will sign an agreement with one of
the top three agrochemical companies in the U.S. turf market to
sell and distribute its patented worm-killing agent.  “It’s a fantastic new possibility for us,” Illovo’s
Managing Director  Graham Clark  said in an interview from
Johannesburg yesterday, declining to identify the U.S.
companies. The nematicide, which kills nematode worms, is made
from furfural, a product that can be made as a derivative of
sugar cane, Clark said. Nematodes damage the root systems of
plants and hampers their ability to absorb water and nutrients
in the soil which can cut crop yields.  In efforts to arrest the  decline in profits  in South
Africa, where it produces 40 percent of its sugar, Illovo has
diversified and also makes ethyl alcohol, fertilizer and food
flavorings such as diacetyl, which is used to enhance the taste
of margarine. Furfural and its derivatives are also used in
foundries to bind foundry sands and by refineries to purify
crude oil.  Creating new markets and demand for Mount Edgecombe, South
Africa-based Illovo’s so-called  downstream products  such as
furfural “deals with a niche in our South African business
where we have seen a decline in sugar margins,” he said.  “We have a team of very clever scientists that examined
the compound and they have convinced us that it has properties
for use in agriculture and cropping generally,” Clark said.  After an eight-year approval process in the U.S. with that
country’s  Environmental Protection Agency  and the Food and Drug
Administration the company won consent in July for the pesticide
to be used on lawns and turf farms. Registration for use on food
crops is being pursued.  Rival Nematicides  An agreement with one of the agrochemical companies is in
the process of being concluded, Clark said. The approval
coincides with the phased banning of the toxic methyl bromide, a
gas that is used as a fumigant to kill pests but depletes
stratospheric ozone,  according to the EPA .  Illovo and a U.S. partner will aim to supply 25 percent of
the market, Clark said.  “We are very early in the process, we don’t know what the
competitor reaction is going to be,” he said. “All the big
agrochemical guys will be in the market with an alternative
product.”  “We hold the patents, the intellectual property sits with
us,” he said. “They have got to do a bit of catch-up.”  ‘Ramp up Production’  The downstream business is a “significant contributor” to
Illovo’s profit in South Africa Clark said. “I would hope that
over time the South African profit contribution will be
dominated by downstream revenue.”  Furfural and its derivatives are produced at the Sezela
mill complex on the south coast of South Africa’s KwaZulu-Natal
province. Illovo has a production capacity of around 20,000
metric tons a year.  “As that product becomes more accepted in the market place
we would divert it from its traditional use, put it into the new
application and ramp up production if required,” Clark said  Illovo sells the product in South Africa under the name of
Crop Guard. and has
registered the product in the U.S. under the name MultiGuard
Protect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicky Smith in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  