-- India Telecommunications Ministry to Review Call to Cancel Phone Licenses
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a
-- 2010-11-19T09:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/india-phone-ministry-to-review-call-to-cancel-wireless-licenses.html
India’s telecommunications ministry,
under fire by the nation’s chief auditor for selling licenses at
“unbelievably low” prices in 2008, said it will review whether
to cancel some of the permits.  The Department of Telecommunications has received
recommendations from the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India,
 Kapil Sibal , who started as minister this week, told reporters
in New Delhi today, declining to elaborate. TRAI said the
government should cancel 69 licenses, the Business Standard
newspaper reported today, without citing anyone.  Sibal is aiming to defuse a scandal that’s led to the
resignation of his predecessor and put Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  in his first crisis since his re-election last year. The
sale of the permits at below-market prices may have deprived the
government of more than $30 billion, the auditor said Nov. 15.
The Supreme Court yesterday gave Singh’s office until tomorrow
to explain why he didn’t respond to calls for prosecution of
former Minister Andimuthu Raja.  The minister has sought a report from the department’s top
bureaucrat, seeking ways to address the regulator’s
recommendations, Sibal said separately, without giving details.  The Indian government sold wireless airwaves in 2008 for
123.9 billion rupees ($2.7 billion), though they were worth as
much as 1.5 trillion rupees, the Comptroller and Auditor General
of India said in a report to parliament in New Delhi this month.
The telecommunications ministry allowed some bidders to “jump
the queue” and awarded 85 of the licenses to ineligible
companies, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net ;  Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at +91-
   ssharma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  