-- Indonesia Stocks May Rise 20% by End-2011 on Earnings, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2010-11-19T10:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/indonesia-stocks-may-rise-20-by-end-2011-on-earnings-credit-suisse-says.html
Indonesian stocks may rise 20
percent by the end of 2011 as increased earnings, a potential
upgrade in the country’s debt rating and a Cabinet reshuffle
boost investor confidence, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  The benchmark  Jakarta Composite Index  may advance to 4,400
next year, Credit Suisse analyst Arief Wana said in a report
today. He advised investors to focus on “underperformers and
valuations,” citing  PT Indosat  and  PT Adaro Energy . The index
rose 1.3 percent to 3,725.05 at the 4 p.m. Jakarta time close.  “Structural improvement in return on equity is one of our
main reasons,” Wana said. Better profit margins and “asset
turnover” will remain the “key drivers” boosting the return
on equity of shares on the benchmark index by 150 basis points
next year, he said, without giving the target rate of return.  The stock index has risen 47 percent this year, the best
performer among Asia’s 10 biggest markets. Shares climbed as the
nation’s central bank kept its  benchmark interest rate  at a
record low of 6.5 percent this year, supporting domestic
consumption that accounts for about two-thirds of the economy.
The International Monetary Fund forecasts economic growth to
accelerate to 6 percent this year from 4.5 percent in 2009.  Standard & Poor’s raised Indonesia’s sovereign credit
rating to a 12-year high of BB from BB- on March 12, with a
positive outlook. S&P and Moody’s Investors Service both rank
Indonesia two levels below investment grade, while Fitch Ratings
on Jan. 25 increased it to one step below investment. Moody’s
raised in June Indonesia’s credit rating outlook to positive.  ‘May Falter’  The stock market rally may falter this year as foreign
purchases of Indonesian equities slow, Budi Hikmat, a director
at PT Bahana TCW Investment Management, which manages about $1.8
billion, said Nov. 3, recommending investors “tone down
expectations on future gains.”  Near-zero interest rates in the U.S. and Japan spurred
funds to seek higher returns in emerging markets, helping to
boost Indonesian stocks.  Foreign net purchases  of Indonesian
shares jumped to 6 trillion rupiah ($672 million) in September,
the biggest monthly net purchase this year, before dropping to
322 billion rupiah in October, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Indosat, Indonesia’s second-largest telephone company has
risen 22 percent this year, underperforming the benchmark
index’s 47 percent gain. Adaro, the nation’s second-largest coal
producer, has advanced 42 percent this year.  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono hasn’t discussed any
plans for a Cabinet reshuffle with his Democrat party, state
news agency Antara reported on its website Oct. 31, citing Saan
Mustofa, deputy secretary general at the party’s board of
executives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  