-- Flaherty Says Canada's Next Budget Will Have No Big New Spending Plans
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-11-19T15:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/minister-flaherty-says-next-budget-will-have-no-big-new-spending-plans.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , who kicked off public consultations for his next
budget today, said his 2011 fiscal plan will have no major new
spending initiatives as the government seeks to reduce its
deficit.  Flaherty, seeking to make Canada the first country in the
Group of Seven to  balance its budget  even as he acknowledges
economic growth and revenue may be slowing, has pledged to
balance the federal budget by 2015. The government is relying on
higher employment insurance premiums, coupled with restraint in
defense and operating spending and expiring stimulus measures,
to help the country lower its deficit.  “This is a budget where our intention is to stay the
course. No big new spending plans,” Flaherty, 60, told
reporters ahead of budget consultations in Toronto. “Canadians
expect us to be a fiscally conservative responsible
government.”  Flaherty said the government still plans to move ahead with
corporate tax cuts on Jan. 1 and other measures announced in
previous  fiscal plans .  “The quickest, most direct way of creating more  jobs  is to
reduce taxes on businesses,” he said.  Flaherty defended the U.S. Federal Reserve’s decision to
spend a further C$600 billion on asset purchases to stimulate
the economy, saying he recognizes the usefulness of the measure
in the “short-term.”  Flaherty also said the situation in Ireland is being dealt
with in an expeditious way and that Canada has been involved in
discussions about the situation through the  International
Monetary Fund .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  