-- Insurance Brokers `Ready' for Acquisitions, Morgan Stanley's Bischof Says
-- B y   N i s h a d   M a j m u d a r
-- 2010-11-19T20:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/insurance-brokers-ready-for-acquisitions-morgan-stanley-s-bischof-says.html
Insurance brokers are “ready to
go” for mergers and acquisitions, said Morgan Stanley’s co-head
of financial institutions.  “There are several medium-size, wholesale brokers owned by
private-equity firms and there’s a slew of smaller ones,”  Eric Bischof  said today at the  Annual Executive Conferences  on
property-casualty insurance in New York. “They’ve been pretty
much on hold the last couple of years, so I think they’re going
to be ready to go.”  In July, Chicago-based  Aon Corp. , the world’s biggest
broker, agreed to acquire human resources specialist Hewitt
Associates for $4.7 billion in cash and stock to expand its
consulting operations. New York-based  Marsh & McLennan Cos. , the
second-biggest insurance broker, announced in May it had
acquired the Bostonian Group Insurance Agency Inc. and Bostonian
Solutions Inc. Terms weren’t disclosed.  Insurance brokers help find policies for clients, which pay
fees in return. Insurers also pay so-called contingency
commissions to brokers, a practice that has drawn criticism
from industry group Risk and Insurance Management Society and
 Eliot Spitzer , who tried to curb the payments when he was New
York attorney general.  M&A in the insurance industry has decreased in part
because of slow economic growth and lower valuations, Bischof
said. Buyouts could rebound if confidence in the economy and the
ability to finance deals improve, he said.  “What has stopped transactions was the fact that as prices
got below book value, buyers were looking and saying I’m willing
to pay 80 cents-to-book, and sellers are saying that’s not worth
it,” Bischof said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nishad Majmudar  in New York at 
 nmajmudar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  