-- LNG to Dominate Ship Fueling Within 40 Years, Det Norske Says
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2010-11-19T08:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/liquefied-natural-gas-to-dominate-ship-fuel-in-40-years-det-norske-says.html
Liquefied natural gas will become
the dominant fuel source for all merchant ships within 40 years
as environmental pressures force owners to use cleaner burning
fuel, the world’s fourth-largest vessel classifier said.  Ships  must cut emissions  of sulfur oxides, a pollutant said
to cause acid rain, to 0.5 percent by 2020 from 4.5 percent
today under rules from the International Maritime Organization.
In more environmentally sensitive areas, the upper limit drops
to 0.1 percent by 2015 from 1 percent today.  “Environmental requirements aren’t going to get any less
strict,” Lars Petter Blikom, segment director for LNG at  Det
Norske Veritas , a company that verifies ships are seaworthy,
said in a Nov. 16 interview in London. “That’s just going to
make gas even more compelling and there’s no other realistic
option.”  LNG, natural gas chilled to 1/600th of its gaseous size,
costs $397.28 a metric ton, according to Spectron.  Bunker fuel 
oil with a sulfur content of 4.5 percent and a viscosity of 380
centistokes costs $475.26 a ton, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg from 25 ports. Nitrogen oxides trigger reactions that
lead to the formation of ozone, a pollutant that irritates eyes
and lungs.  By 2020, a majority of owners will ask for LNG fuel tanks
every time they place an order for new vessels to be built,
Blikom said.  Shipping Orders  Orders worth about $46.1 billion have been placed for all
kinds of ships so far this year, more than double 2009’s $28.2
billion, and below the $164.5 billion in 2007, according to
 Clarkson Plc , the world’s largest shipbroker. Changing
specifications so that ships burn LNG will add about 10 percent
to construction costs, Blikom said.  As well as generating more revenue for yards including
 Hyundai Heavy Industries , the world’s largest, the switchover
will bolster demand for LNG as a fuel.  Ships will burn 200 million to 250 million tons of heavy
fuel oil this year, the Southampton, England-based International
Bunker Association estimates. Based on the higher end of that
range, a switchover of the entire shipping fleet to LNG
refueling would create demand for 360 million tons of oil-
equivalent of the liquefied gas, Per Wiggo Richardsen, Det
Norske Veritas’s director of communications, said in a follow-up
e-mail.  That would be “much more than double” existing demand
for the liquefied form of the fuel, he said.  Demand Driver  “The shipping industry has been the main demand source for
the lowest quality oil products” and environmental legislation
will halt that situation, Blikom said.  Most likely, LNG will be shipped to ocean-going vessels by
specialist barges or small tankers from land-based LNG storage
tanks in a method similar to how heavy fuel is distributed
today, Blikom said.  LNG cuts carbon emissions from shipping by about 25
percent, sulfur oxides by almost 100 percent, and nitrogen
oxides by 85 percent, Blikom said. As well as fitting out new
carriers to run on LNG, it’s possible to retrofit existing
vessels to use the fuel, he said. Nitrogen oxides pollution is
also being curtailed under the International Maritime
Organization rules. The shipping industry will face pressure to
cut its carbon emissions too, Blikom said.  Waertsilae OYG, the world’s biggest engine maker, said Nov.
12 that 10 percent of ships calling at Emission Control Areas,
where the 0.1 percent limit will apply soonest, will be running
on LNG by 2015. That would represent a tenfold increase in
vessels using the fuel, it said.  Excluding ships that are employed in the LNG trade already,
Det Norske Veritas has certified 21 out of the 22 merchant ships
that currently burn the fuel. Including vessels already
operating in the LNG industry, there are about 100 carriers that
use the fuel for propulsion today, according to Waertsilae.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaric Nightingale  in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 