-- Ireland Crisis Might Give China Break It Seeks: Simon Johnson
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2010-11-19T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/ireland-crisis-might-give-china-break-it-seeks-simon-johnson.html
There will be many twists and turns
as the Ireland debt crisis unfolds and there’s a chance a
resolution might just lead to  Asia .  Here’s how I see it playing out. Ireland will accept a
modest package of support from the European Union, presumably
with International Monetary Fund involvement. At the same time,
investors are coming to realize that Ireland’s future debt path
is, beyond a reasonable doubt, unsustainable.  But a modest package will make very little difference.
Ireland and its EU partners will have to resolve the underlying
issues, including a restructuring of banking and sovereign debt.  We’ll get to that point because, absent a global growth
miracle, the numbers are stacked too high against Ireland. But
there won’t be any quick jump to a solution; it will be slow,
painful-to-watch chess match in Dublin, Brussels and around the
IMF headquarters in  Washington , with obvious and costly
spillovers to Portugal,  Spain  and perhaps other countries.  Why does it have to be this way? Delay and prevarication at
this stage have nothing to do with any of the key players being
taken by surprise. The writing has been on the euro-zone wall
for at least two years.  In late October 2008, Peter Boone,  James Kwak  and I
suggested that some European countries had given taxpayer-backed
pledges to banks that had liabilities that were larger than
their own gross domestic products. We also proposed the creation
of a European Stability Fund with at least 2 trillion euros ($2.7
trillion) of credit lines guaranteed by all EU member nations as
well as  Switzerland ,  Sweden  and the U.K. to buy time for dealing
with the underlying issues of solvency in Ireland and elsewhere.  Abdicating Responsibility  The euro zone belatedly acted on that piece of advice, but
the politicians in charge, both at the core and on the periphery
of Europe, have refused to take responsibility for what they
allowed to happen in the run-up to 2008. Europe’s leaders have
told themselves and their voters that most of the world’s
problems are due to the meltdown of the U.S. housing market and
the way in which America’s megabanks went mad.  There is, of course, an element of truth to this. But it
also misses the bigger European picture and what is blocking
progress even today. The main proponents of unconstrained
financial globalization may have been U.S. Treasury officials in
recent decades, but it was European banks that really became too
large relative to their economies. Along the way, they captured
their regulators and engaged in incredibly irresponsible
behavior.  ‘Ship of Fools’  Ireland may be an extreme in this regard. It’s worth
checking David Lynch’s perceptive new book, “When the Luck of
the Irish Ran Out,” (disclosure: I provided a dust-jacket
blurb) or the even more scathing “Ship of Fools: How Stupidity
and Corruption Killed the  Celtic Tiger ,” by Irish journalist
Fintan O’Toole. Both lay out the web of connections between
politicians, bankers and real-estate developers that accounted
for the frenzied growth and subsequent crash of the Irish
economy.  In “ The Quiet Coup ,” published in Atlantic magazine in
May 2009, I compared the U.S. economic boom-bust-bailout cycle
to what has become typical in emerging middle-income countries
such as Russia, Argentina or  Indonesia . Just don’t think these
problems are limited to emerging markets.  There is a much more general or global phenomenon in which
powerful people cooperate to build an economic model that
provides growth based on a great deal of debt. When the crisis
comes, those who control the state try to save their favorite
oligarchs, but there aren’t enough resources to go around.  Pushed From Lifeboat  Even after social spending is cut and taxes are raised,
shifting as much of the costs from the elite to ordinary
citizens, some of the rich and powerful -- think  Lehman Brothers 
-- still need to be pushed from the lifeboat.  Here is the present problem: It’s not just the Irish elite
that is under pressure and struggling to sort out who should be
saved. It’s also the European bankers who funded them.  Under justifiable public pressure, the German government
has taken up the theme of burden sharing, meaning that creditors
must face losses in future crises.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and
her colleagues haven’t thought through the signal this sends to
the markets today, which is “Get out of Irish banks, now.”  Presumably about now, big German and French banks are
pointing out to their governments that when Ireland defaults,
they will face big losses too. In turn, problems will spread to
 Portugal  and probably Spain, thus taking some of the spotlight
off Irish politicians.  Incentive to Delay  In fact, the Irish leadership has every incentive to delay
until other countries can be dragged into turmoil. The crisis
will become euro-zone wide, at which point all eyes will turn to
some combination of the  European Central Bank , the German
taxpayer, and the IMF. But the ECB can’t pay and the German
taxpayer won’t pay. Does the IMF have the resources to tackle
Spain, let alone a bigger country like, say  Italy  or even
 France ?  The U.S. could add sufficient funding to the mix -- this is
what it means to be a  reserve currency  -- but the mood in
Washington has shifted against bailouts.  As an alternative,  Europe  could place a call to Beijing to
find out if  China  would like to commit some of its $2.6 trillion
in reserves to keep European creditors whole. This would be an
enormous opportunity for China to vault to a leading global
role. Perhaps it was a good idea to place Min Zhu, a top Bank of
China official, in a senior position at the IMF.  If China offered to recapitalize the IMF, become the
largest shareholder, and move the organization to Beijing
(according to the  Articles  of Agreement, the IMF’s headquarters
should be in the capital of the largest shareholder), wouldn’t
that make for an interesting chess game?  ( Simon Johnson , co-author of “13 Bankers: The Wall Street
Takeover and the Next Financial Meltdown,” is a professor at
MIT’s Sloan School of Management and a Bloomberg News columnist
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  