-- Irish Nationwide Investors Ask U.K. Court to Proceed With Liquidation Case
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-11-19T17:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/irish-nationwide-bondholders-ask-to-court-to-proceed-with-liquidation-suit.html
Two Irish Nationwide Building
Society subordinated bondholders told a London court that a
lawsuit seeking the liquidation of the nationalized property
lender should be allowed to proceed.  The bondholders, Satinland Finance Sarl and Trimast Holding
Sarl, said the bank bailout is forcing them to assume part of
the burden that should be shouldered by the Irish government.
The bondholders are seeking to force a BNP Paribas SA unit, the
debt program trustee, to file a winding-up petition against
Irish Nationwide, which has asked to dismiss the lawsuit.  The investors sued after Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said Sept. 30 that holders of subordinated bonds would
be expected to share in the cost of bailing out Irish Nationwide
and  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. , the country’s two nationalized
lenders. The government has committed 5.4 billion euros ($7.4
billion) to rescue Irish Nationwide, as losses mounted amid
surging bad loans.  “The burden-sharing process” imposes “losses on one
class, namely subordinated noteholders, while not imposing
losses on another class, namely the Irish government,” Neil
Calver, a lawyer for the bondholders, said at a hearing in
London today. “INBS has repudiated the notes by indicating it
does not intend to pay the contractually obliged amount when it
falls due by way of burden-sharing.”  Bailout Talks  Ireland, in talks for a bailout from the European Union and
International Monetary Fund, is seeking to share the cost of
rescuing its banks with investors holding some of the lenders’
riskiest debt.  Irish Nationwide asked the court yesterday to throw out the
lawsuit because it is “misconceived on a whole host of
grounds,” according to the lender’s lawyer, Mark Howard.  The suit could “cause a run on the Nationwide,” Howard
said. “With a threatened application to wind up the Nationwide,
that is of concern.”  Satinland Finance and Trimast Holding, which hold 25.6
percent of Irish Nationwide’s 13 percent lower Tier 2 bonds due
2016, filed the lawsuit against the lender and BNP Paribas Trust
Corp., the trustee for its subordinated bonds, in London two
weeks ago.  Liquidation  The Irish Nationwide notes in the case can’t be redeemed
before their maturity date unless the lender is liquidated,
Howard told the court.  “It is a contract that is intended to stop noteholders
from saying there has been a repudiatory breach and claim
damages,” Howard said.  In a statement after the lawsuit was filed, Irish
Nationwide said no event of default has occurred and the terms
of the bonds are being honored. The lender said it would
“vigorously defend the proceedings.”  Judge  George Mann  said he wouldn’t rule on the request to
dismiss the case before Nov. 22.  The case is Satinland Finance SARL & anr v. BNP Paribas
Trust Corp. UK Ltd. & anr, case no. HC10C03541, High Court of
Justice, Chancery Division (London).  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 