-- Irish Mourn Loss of Sovereignty as Cowen Scorned Before `German Bailout'
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   J o h n   F r a h e r
-- 2010-11-19T13:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/irish-mourn-loss-of-sovereignty-as-cowen-scorned-before-german-bailout-.html
Irish rebels fought for independence
during World War I, boasting they served “neither King nor
Kaiser.” Ireland may now have to do exactly that to qualify for
a bailout partly funded by both Britain and Germany.  Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  is edging toward accepting a
rescue package that may threaten the country’s low-tax policies
and put voters on the hook to repay loans the central bank says
may be worth “tens of billions” of euros. For critics of
Cowen’s Fianna Fail party, which governed Ireland through its
decade-long boom, national pride is at stake.  Cowen has “squandered” independence for a “German
bailout with a few shillings of sympathy from the British
chancellor,” the  Irish Times  newspaper said yesterday. The
government should be “ashamed that Fianna Fail should be the
ones to surrender sovereignty,” said  Michael Noonan , finance
spokesman for Fine Gael, the largest opposition party.  Officials from the European Union and the International
Monetary Fund are in Dublin to assess the books of the country’s
 banks,  whose downfall was hand in hand with the collapse of the
property market. The Irish government estimated rescuing the
financial services industry alone might cost as much as 50
billion euros ($68 billion).  ‘Painful’  “As an Irishman who has lived all his life in the Irish
Free State, it is painful to think that we’ll be handing over
our sovereignty,” said Bill Phelan, 77, who worked for the
state-owned Electricity Supply Board before his retirement. “I
regret that all I have worked and saved for may be crumbling
under my feet. I worry for my children.”  Opposition Labour lawmaker Pat Rabbitte berated government
minister Pat Carey on live television last night, telling him
“you ought to be ashamed to show your face in this studio after
you brought our country to penury.”  Ireland would draw on a 750 billion-euro pool funded by
Germany and other euro members should it ask for aid. While
Britain is not part of the currency bloc, Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  says he’s willing to contribute to any
package to be a “good neighbor.”  Cowen said Ireland has no reason to feel “ashamed or
humiliated.” “There is no question of loss of sovereignty for
Ireland,” he told reporters in Dublin yesterday.  The government has said it may take aid in order to protect
the euro. Ireland may be the “zone of attack,” Finance
Minister  Brian Lenihan  told reporters in Brussels on Nov. 16
after a meeting of his counterparts in the euro region.  Uprisings  A request for outside help is acutely felt in a country
that gained independence in 1922 after a series of failed
uprisings against the British Empire. The most famous came in
1916 at the height of World War I, when republicans hung a
banner from Dublin’s Liberty Hall reading: “We serve neither
King nor Kaiser but Ireland.”  The slogan was a riposte to critics who argued that the
separatist movement undermined Britain’s war effort against
Kaiser Wilhelm II. While the 1916 revolt was suppressed, the
surviving leaders then mounted another armed campaign that led
to a 1921 treaty with Britain granting partial independence.  The country then descended into civil war, with the
predecessors of Fianna Fail arguing that settlement was a
sellout. More than eight decades later, some people in the party
under Cowen are echoing the idea of selling out.  “This is our worst day and lowest day,” Ned O’Keeffe, a
Fianna Fail lawmaker, said in an interview with broadcaster  RTE .
“We are sovereign people and blood has been lost over it. It’s
sad that the U.K. Chancellor is now offering us money. I never
believed I’d see that.”  Keep Fighting  Cowen’s government may nevertheless keep fighting to show
it has some control over its economic policies.  Talks may turn to Ireland’s 12.5 percent corporate tax
rate, which lured companies such as  Google Inc.  and Microsoft
Corp. to Ireland in the 1990s and helped transform the country
into a destination for foreign investment.  Austrian Finance Minister  Josef Proell  said Nov. 17 that he
will want to discuss Irish company tax as part of any rescue
package. A day earlier, he warned Greece it might withhold
Austria’s part of the country’s bailout agreed in May if the
government in Athens doesn’t comply with financial targets.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said on a Nov. 11 visit to Dublin that Ireland won’t continue as
a “low-tax” country. Ireland’s Trade Minister Batt O’Keeffe
said yesterday the country’s commitment to keeping the
corporation tax rate isn’t “up for negotiation.”  “It would be the final battle but I expect Ireland to
stick to its guns and defend corporate taxes,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin.
“They’d have to be dragged kicking and screaming.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net 
 John Fraher  in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  