-- Japan Copper Wire, Cable Shipments Decline 3.9%, First Drop in 10 Months
-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2010-11-19T03:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/japan-copper-cable-shipments-fall-3-9-in-october-correct-.html
Copper wire and cable shipments in
Japan declined 3.9 percent in October from a year earlier,
declining for the first time in 10 months as the export-led
economy slowed, an industry group said.  Shipments, including exports and domestic business, dropped
to 59,200 metric tons last month, from 61,614 tons a year
earlier, the  Japanese Electric Wire and Cable Makers’
Association  said today in an e-mailed statement. Shipments
totaled 60,475 tons in September.  Japan’s government maintained its assessment of the economy
after cutting it in the previous month as more signs emerged
that a global slowdown is damping the country’s recovery. The
rebound is “pausing” and will remain weak “for a while,” the
Cabinet Office said in a monthly report yesterday.  Shipments to the auto industry slumped 13.3 percent from a
year earlier after a government-subsidy program -- which
exempted purchases of electric, hybrid, natural gas and some
diesel vehicles from taxes -- ended at the end of September, the
group said.  The yen’s strength also affected exports as shipments fell
4.4 percent, the association said.  Japan’s lower house this week passed legislation to fund
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s 5.1 trillion yen ($61 billion)
stimulus to protect companies from the strong yen. Even as the
economy’s expansion accelerated in the third quarter, the
government said deflation, stock and currency swings and more
moderate growth overseas remain risks to the outlook.  Gross domestic product  climbed an annualized 3.9 percent in
the three months ended Sept. 30, faster than the 1.8 percent
expansion in the previous quarter, boosted by last-minute
purchases of cars before the stimulus program expired.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  