-- Japan's Biggest Emerging-Bond Fund to Invest in India on Stronger Rupee
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   M a k i k o   A s a i
-- 2010-11-19T01:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/japan-s-biggest-emerging-bond-fund-to-invest-in-india-on-stronger-rupee.html
PineBridge Investments Japan Co.
said its 160 billion-yen ($1.9 billion) bond fund will start to
invest in India next year on expectations the nation’s currency
will appreciate.  The firm’s  Blue Ocean  fund is Japan’s biggest that invests
in sovereign bonds in emerging economies without letting
customers choose in which currency to invest, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Investment in India is expected to start
in 2011 with an initial allocation of at least 5 percent of
the fund’s assets, or about 8 billion yen, said  Kazuya Sugiura ,
managing director at PineBridge’s fund-business development
division.  “India is undoubtedly an important country,” Sugiura said
in a Nov. 17 interview in Tokyo. The rupee “is moving in almost
the same way as the U.S. dollar, but I think the time will come
when it starts to move differently.”  Prolonged deflation  in Japan enhances the value of fixed
payments from bonds, boosting demand for government debt and
driving down its returns. While the Bank of Japan maintains
interest rates almost zero to boost lending and combat
deflation, its Indian counterpart has lifted borrowing costs  six
times  this year to contain inflation.  India’s rupee has depreciated 7.6 percent versus the yen
this year, while the dollar has lost 10 percent.  Yields  on
India’s 10-year bonds are seven times higher than similar-
maturity Japanese debt.  Sovereign Ratings  Japan’s investments in overseas debt have reached a net
22.3 trillion yen this year through September, exceeding a
yearly total of 13.3 trillion yen in 2009,  reports  from the
Ministry of Finance show. Purchases of Indian securities amount
to a net 100 billion yen this year, more than any annual total
on record dating back to 2005.  Other investment opportunities for Blue Ocean lie with
Indonesia and Turkey, whose sovereign ratings may be raised,
Sugiura said. There are investors who avoid countries with a
rating of BB or lower, and a rating upgrade will spur their
purchases, he said.  “Indonesia’s rating may be lifted in 2012 or 2013 if
everything goes smoothly,”Sugiura said. “The countries’
interest rates are high and their economies are robust despite
some problems.”  Indonesia and Turkey are rated BB by Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services. Turkish securities accounted for the biggest
portion of the fund’s asset, or 12 percent, as of Oct. 20,
followed by Brazil’s 11 percent, according to the company’s
report. Indonesian debt made up 9 percent.  Shift from Latin America  Last month, Brazil raised tax on foreigners’ investments in
fixed-income securities to prevent the currency’s appreciation
and safeguard export growth. Japan’s purchases of Brazilian debt
rose to a net 882.4 billion yen this year through September,
reports from Japan’s Ministry of Finance show. That exceeded a
12-month total last year, the most on record since 2005.  “The fund’s allocation will shift from Latin America to
Asia to a certain extent,” Sugiura said. “I’m expecting Asian
countries to play an increasingly important role in Blue
Ocean.”  The International Monetary Fund projects 1.5 percent growth
in Japan’s economy next year, and 8.4 percent for India.
Turkey’s economy may expand 3.6 percent, compared with 6.2
percent for Indonesia’s real gross domestic product, according
to the IMF.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Makiko Asai  in Tokyo at 
 masai@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  