-- Johnson & Johnson, Takeda Units Recall Velcade Drug After Particle Reports
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2010-11-19T21:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/johnson-johnson-takeda-units-recall-velcade-drug-after-particle-reports.html
Johnson & Johnson  and  Takeda
Pharmaceuticals Co.  are recalling batches of their Velcade
blood-cancer medicine in the U.K., U.S. and Japan after reports
of impurities.  The recall is a “precaution” after five reports of visual
particulates were received following product reconstitution in
samples from two batches, according to a  statement  yesterday on
the website of the U.K.’s Medicines and Healthcare Products
Regulatory Agency. The six affected batches of the medicine,
sold in powder form in 3.5-milligram strength, were first
distributed from Jan. 5 to June 16, the statement said.  J&J has recalled more than 40 of its medicines in the last
year, some of them children’s medicines. U.S. lawmakers and
regulators investigated J&J in connection with a recall of over-
the-counter-painkillers last year, and another this year of
children’s drugs from the McNeil Consumer Healthcare unit.  A manufacturing problem linked with the particulates is
being fixed,  Seizo Masuda , a spokesman for Takeda in Tokyo, said
today. Velcade is sold by Takeda’s Millennium unit in the U.S.
and by Johnson & Johnson in other countries.  Johnson & Johnson was unchanged at $63.83 at 4:01 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Takeda  fell  0.4
percent to 3,955 yen at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo trading. The
benchmark  Topix  index gained 0.1 percent.  Sales  of Velcade rose 12 percent to 25.6 billion yen ($307
million) in the six months ended Sept. 30 and made up 3.6
percent of total revenue, Takeda, Asia’s largest drugmaker,  said 
on Oct. 29. The company bought Millennium, based in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, in 2008 for $8.9 billion and added the product to
its portfolio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kanoko Matsuyama  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net . 