-- Kenya Vows `High-Level' Prosecutions in Renewed Fight Against Corruption
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-11-19T09:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/kenya-vows-high-level-prosecutions-in-renewed-fight-against-corruption.html
Kenya , one of the world’s 20-most
corrupt nations, may prosecute “high-level” individuals next
year in a renewed clampdown on graft aimed at encouraging
foreign investment in East Africa’s biggest economy.  A reorganization of the judiciary and police promised by a
new constitution enacted in August bolstered public sentiment
that the war against corruption can be won,  Patrick Lumumba ,
director of the  Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission , said in an
interview on Nov. 17 in Nairobi. At least four ministers are
being probed over alleged corruption, he said.  “The ultimate test is in terms of prosecution and I believe
in many cases we should very well by the first half of next year
see a lot of these individuals arraigned in court,” said
Lumumba, a lawyer. “High-level individuals: I have no doubt that
by mid-next year you will see quite a few of them in court.”  Kenya dropped 11 places from last year to 159th out of 178
countries listed on the 2010  Corruption Perceptions Index 
compiled by Transparency International, the Berlin-based
advocacy group. Somalia, the most-corrupt nation, is 178th.  Kenyan President  Mwai Kibaki  came to power in 2002 with a
pledge to fight graft. A previous attempt at addressing
corruption resulted in  John Githongo , a former corruption
adviser to Kibaki, fleeing the country in 2005 after he received
death threats. In January 2006, Githongo issued a 31-page
dossier outlining corruption in the government that led to the
resignation of Finance Minister  David Mwiraria .  Forced Resignation  Lumumba was named as the new head of the anti-graft agency
in July. His predecessor, Aaron Ringera, was forced to resign
last year after lawmakers voted to oppose a proposal by Kibaki
to renew his contract for a second, five-year term.  Since his appointment, Lumumba has used tactics including
publicly naming people who have committed fraud and proposing
conditional amnesty for thieves if they return what they stole.  “If we don’t deal with corruption at the political level
then investors will not come here and there are certain
internationally available funds that will not come to us,” said
Lumumba. “The only thing holding us back in terms of realizing
our economic development and political and social maturity is
corruption.”  Kenya will need “a couple of billion shillings” of
financial aid and technical support from foreign donors to enact
legislation that needs to come into effect before the country’s
next general election in 2012, the government said in August.  Last month, Kenya suspended Foreign Minister  Moses Wetangula  and Higher Education Minister  William Ruto  amid probes
into alleged corruption. Nairobi Mayor Geoffrey Majiwa was
arrested by the commission on Oct. 25 as part of an
investigation into alleged graft. All three have denied
involvement in corruption.  Charges  This month, Kenya suspended 11 “senior” immigration
officials for issuing work permits and Kenyan citizenship to
“undeserving” foreigners, the  Daily Nation  newspaper reported on
Nov. 2. A probe by the commission into two ministers allegedly
involved in corruption may be concluded by the end of this month
and a report sent to the attorney-general for consent to charge
them. Two other ministers are also being investigated, Lumumba
said, without naming them.  “There are encouraging signs that the Kibaki administration
will take a harder stance on corruption,”  Philippe de Pontet ,
director of Africa for the Eurasia Group, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “I remain skeptical until and unless we
see many more dismissals and investigations, including some
targeted at the president and the prime minister’s closest
allies. Otherwise, much of this could just be a PR exercise.”  Anglo Leasing  The commission has also started re-visiting corruption
scandals that haven’t been resolved, including the so-called
Anglo Leasing affair, a 2.9 billion-shilling ($36.2 million)
scam in which contracts were secured by the Kenyan government
through a fake company in 2002.  The commission is requesting “legal assistance” from Italy,
Switzerland, the U.S. state of New Jersey and the U.K.’s Serious
Fraud Office in its investigations after the High Court ruled
earlier this year that Kenya is allowed to seek such help from
abroad, he said.  Kenya’s $34.5 billion economy is forecast to grow 2.3
percent this year and 4 percent next year, according to the
 International Monetary Fund ’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  