-- Kenyan Credit Rating Raised by S&P on Growth Outlook, Lower Political Risk
-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2010-11-19T17:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/kenyan-rating-is-raised-to-b-by-s-p-citing-political-economic-stability.html
Kenya’s sovereign rating was raised
by Standard & Poor’s, placing it on par with Ukraine, Georgia
and Paraguay, because of reduced political risk as it enacted a
new constitution and the economic outlook improved.  The rating, increased by one step to B+, is four levels
below investment grade, the New York-based agency said in a
statement today. The outlook for the rating is stable.  “The stable outlook reflects our expectation that the
ruling coalition will continue working together on political and
macroeconomic issues, and that political instability will not
significantly hinder our projections of economic growth,” the
agency said.  Kenya’s $34.5 billion economy is East Africa’s biggest,
according to the World Bank. In August, the country made law a
new constitution that was the product of a power-sharing accord
signed by President  Mwai Kibaki  and Prime Minister  Raila Odinga 
in 2009. That agreement followed two months of violence,
triggered by a disputed presidential election, in which 1,500
people died and 300,000 were forced to flee their homes.  The constitution aims to share political power among the
country’s 42 ethnic groups, achieve more equitable land
distribution and put checks and balances on the president,
aiming to avoid a repeat of the post-election violence.  ‘Reduced Risk’  The charter “reduces political risks because it provides
significantly more clarity on the demarcation of power between
the president, parliament and other pillars of government,” S&P
said today. “The absence of violence surrounding the referendum
supports our view of improving political stability in Kenya.”  Kenya’s rating remains constrained by its “low level of
economic development, underlying ethnic tensions and relatively
high fiscal deficit levels,” the agency said.  Kenya’s gross domestic product per capita is $464, compared
with the sub-Saharan African average of $623, according to World
Bank data. Economic growth in the nation of 38.6 million people
is forecast to accelerate to 4 percent next year from 2.3
percent this year, according to  International Monetary Fund 
data. S&P expects the economy to expand 5.4 percent, it said.  Fiscal debt levels are “comparatively high, but we expect
the general government debt burden to remain steady” at about
51 percent of GDP until 2013, it said.  The government plans to cut domestic borrowing next year by
about 10 percent to 95 billion  shillings  ($1.2 billion), the
Finance Ministry said last month.  Calls made to the main office of Kenya’s Finance Ministry
in Nairobi seeking comment after normal business hours weren’t
answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 