-- KKR Wants More Japan Deals After First Buyout in the Nation, Minoda Says
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-11-19T02:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/kkr-wants-more-japan-deals-after-first-investment-in-the-nation.html
KKR & Co. ’s Japan unit aims to
invest in at least one to two deals a year, after completing its
first-ever buyout in the country in 2010.  They may include partnerships where Kohlberg Kravis Roberts
Japan will help the nation’s top-tier companies expand abroad
through means such as takeovers, said  Shusaku Minoda , chief
executive officer of the unit. He declined to elaborate, saying
the potential transactions are still private.  Minoda is looking beyond the traditional buyout strategy --
taking over a company by pooling money from investors and
financing purchases with debt with the intention of selling the
firm later for a profit -- to focus on companies struggling to
expand overseas. KKR Japan in June agreed to buy  Usen Corp. ’s
human resources unit, Intelligence Ltd., for 32.5 billion yen
($391 million), marking the biggest completed transaction in the
country this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We should not insist that we will always do 100 percent
deals -- we are quite flexible in our investments,” Minoda said
in an interview in Tokyo on Nov. 17. “The most important thing
for this country now is globalization, and somebody should
provide resources to  Japan’s big companies  to accelerate their
globalization. That’s where we have to work on.”  KKR opened its office in Japan in April 2006 and now has
seven investment professionals and one employee from Capstone,
KKR’s consulting arm. In Asia, the New York-based buyout firm
run by Henry Kravis and George Roberts has made 15 investments,
including the purchase of a stake in India’s  Dalmia Cement
(Bharat) Ltd.  and Chinese milk supplier Ma Anshan Modern Farming
Co., according to the firm.  Smaller Deals  Private-equity deals in Japan have on average returned 44
percent in the past decade, according to  Brightrust PE Japan Co. ,
a Tokyo-based private-equity investment advisory firm.
Transactions in Japan over the past decade averaged $18 million
per buyout with a holding period of 3.2 years, according to
Brightrust’s data based on analysis of 90 out of 192 exits.  Among the bigger deals that foreign firms have completed in
Japan was the J.C. Flowers & Co. and Ripplewood Holdings LLC-
backed $1.2 billion buyout of  Shinsei Bank Ltd.  in 2000.  Minoda says he aims to match the type of deals that KKR has
led in other parts of Asia, including taking minority stakes in
companies instead of carrying out a complete buyout deal.  The yen’s strength against the dollar, which has hampered
the recovery of the nation’s export-led economy, is pushing
firms to expand overseas, providing investment opportunities,
Minoda said. KKR will look at Japan’s 400 biggest companies on
the stock exchange for partnership deals, he said.  ‘Share the Fruits’  “This is a time for Japanese companies to go abroad and do
acquisitions aggressively,” Minoda said. “The resources to do
mergers are what they are lacking. We can provide that and share
the fruits.”  Private-equity firms are seeking to revive deal-making as
borrowing costs are near a three-year low, making buyouts more
attractive, and as financial market recover, allowing them to
exit past investments. Buyout funds globally raised $57 billion
in the third quarter, 16 percent more than in the previous
quarter, when commitments fell to a seven-year low, according to
London-based researcher  Preqin Ltd.   In Japan, 87 deals involving private-equity firms or
management buyouts have been announced this year, worth a total
of $2.15 billion, with an average announced size of $33.6
million each, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I want to establish a good franchise and brand of KKR in
Japan,” Minoda said. “We continue committing to Japan as KKR -
- we are a firm believer that Japan is a great country to stay
to do several businesses.”  Talks With Intelligence  KKR Japan aims to complete the discussions with
 Intelligence,  the Tokyo-based unit of Usen, by the end of the
year to start taking steps to increase efficiency, Minoda said.
The buyout firm doesn’t have plans to cut staff or close
businesses at the Japanese firm, which provides human resource
services such as temporary staff, he said.  KKR had $12.5 billion in uncalled capital commitments to
funds in its private-markets business as of the end September.
Assets under management increased to $55.5 billion at the end of
the quarter, from $50.4 billion a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 