-- KKR Said to Be in Advanced Discussions on Takeover of Del Monte Foods
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-11-19T21:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/kkr-said-to-be-in-advanced-discussions-on-takeover-of-del-monte-foods.html
KKR & Co.  is in advanced discussions
to acquire  Del Monte Foods Co.  in a deal that would give the New
York buyout firm pet-food brands such as Meow Mix and Kibbles ‘n
Bits, according to two people familiar with the matter.  A deal may be reached in the coming weeks, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private. The
Financial Times reported the parties are discussing a price of
about $18.50 a share, valuing the company at $3.6 billion.  A transaction would give KKR a pet-food business whose
sales have more than doubled since 2006, helped by the
 acquisitions  of labels like Meow Mix cat-food and Milk Bone dog
treats. Revenue in the division rose to $1.75 billion in the
year ended May 2, accounting for about half of sales.  Del Monte “has strong cash flow and has taken down its
debt levels, so it is well positioned as a takeout candidate,”
analyst  Farha Aslam  of Stephens Inc. said in an interview. “We
believe the value of the pet-foods business was not being
reflected in the stock.” The New York-based analyst changed her
rating on the shares today from buy to "equal weight."  A deal could still fall apart, according to the people. San
Francisco-based Del Monte climbed $1.80, or 11 percent, to
$17.51 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The gain was the  largest  since February 2009.  Consumer Business  The pet-food industry has been consolidating, with  Nestle
SA , the world’s largest food company, buying dog-snack maker
Waggin’ Train LLC from private equity firm VMG Partners in
September. In May, Procter & Gamble Co., whose pet-food brands
include Iams and Eukanuba, agreed to acquire closely held Natura
Pet Products Inc. for an undisclosed sum.  Del Monte’s consumer business, which makes canned fruits
and vegetables, accounts for the rest of its sales. Revenue in
the division climbed 1.9 percent last year, less than half the
pace of the increase in pet foods.  “When a world-class business is devalued by a smaller,
less attractive business, enterprising minds will think
breakup,”  Tim Ramey , an analyst at D.A. Davidson, said in a
note to clients today, referring to the pet-food division. “You
could justify the valuation of Del Monte on the pet-foods
business alone.” The Lake Oswego, Oregon-based analyst
recommends buying the shares.  Companies’ History  Earlier this year, Del Monte Chief Executive Officer
 Richard Wolford  said he was considering more acquisitions to
expand the pet-food unit. Two areas of focus are pet snacks and
more upscale, specialty pet-food brands, he said.  A buyout of Del Monte by KKR would be at least the second
private-equity food deal this month. On Nov. 5, Lion Capital LLC
of London said it would acquire canned-seafood maker Bumble Bee
Foods LLC from New York buyout firm Centre Partners Management
LLC for $980 million.  This isn’t the first time Del Monte and KKR have been
linked. After the private-equity group’s $25 billion buyout of
RJR Nabisco two decades ago, KKR  sold  the Del Monte canned-foods
business to an investor group led by Merrill Lynch, according to
Del Monte Foods’ website.  Buyout firms use a combination of their own funds and debt
to pay for takeovers and then seek to improve profit by boosting
sales, selling assets and cutting costs. The firms typically
sell the companies within five years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  