-- Kudrin Says Russian Oil Companies to Pay $15 Billion More Tax
-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-11-19T11:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/kudrin-sees-room-to-raise-natural-gas-extraction-tax-update1-.html
Russian oil companies may pay $15
billion more in taxes because of new rules adopted by Russia’s
Customs Union with Kazakhstan and Belarus, Finance Minister
 Alexei Kudrin  said.  Russia plans to abolish export duties for oil and oil
products sold to the Customs Union countries, while instituting
higher levies on oil-products exports from Belarus, Russia and
Kazakhstan, he told reporters in Moscow today. Russian companies
will be compensated for the higher overall level of export
duties they’ll incur as a result, he said.  The government is deciding whether to give Russian
companies subsidies or reduce the mineral extraction tax on oil
to “level out the situation,” Kudrin said.  The government needs to boost taxes to help meet its
spending plans, including a 9 percent rise in pensions next
year, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said on July 28. Overall,
Russia will implement tax increases next year equivalent to 2
percent of gross domestic product, Kudrin told a conference in
Moscow today.  Payroll taxes Russian companies contribute to the national
healthcare and pension systems are set to rise to 34 percent
starting next year. The Finance Ministry also sees more “room
to raise the mineral extraction tax for gas” as it seeks to
increase the tax by 61 percent next year and peg increases in
2012 and 2013 to the estimated level of  inflation .  “It’s impossible to turn back,” Kudrin told the
conference, referring to the payroll tax.  Staff Cuts  This increase will erase savings  OAO Sberbank , Russia’s
biggest lender, made in the last two and a half years by cutting
about 15 percent of staff and “optimizing” other procedures,
Chief Executive Officer  German Gref  told the same conference.  Russia won’t reduce the tax burden in the next two to three
years,  Arkady Dvorkovich , President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s top
economic adviser, told the conference. The country’s 13 percent
flat income tax shouldn’t change, he and Kudrin said.  Ending all tax breaks in Russia could balance the budget
without raising taxes, Kudrin said, adding that he isn’t
proposing to do this. The budget deficit is set to narrow to 4.6
percent this year, below the government’s official 5.3 percent
forecast, from last year’s 5.9 percent gap, according to Kudrin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anton Doroshev  in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  