-- Najib's `Investor-Friendly' Policy to Boost Malaysia Bonds, UOB Asset Says
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2010-11-19T01:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/najib-s-investor-friendly-policy-to-boost-malaysia-bonds-uob-asset-says.html
Malaysian bonds are attractive
because the government has refrained from joining other
emerging-market nations in announcing measures to curtail
foreign investment, said UOB Asset Management Ltd.  A plan to sell shares in state-owned companies and attract
funds for construction projects will boost the allure of ringgit
debt,  Chia Tse Chern , director for fixed income at UOB Asset, a
unit of Singapore’s third-biggest bank, said in an interview
yesterday. Malaysia isn’t considering imposing capital controls,
central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said in Oslo yesterday.  Prime Minister Najib Razak announced a $444 billion 10-year
development plan in September to build railways and power plants.
A record share offering by Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd., a unit
of the state oil company, took in bids for 10 times the amount
on offer on Nov. 12. The government may also divest holdings of
printing company Percetakan Nasional Malaysia Bhd., CTRM Aero
Composites Sdn., an aerospace components maker, and two
biotechnology companies, Najib said in March.  “If you look at the news flow from Malaysia, Najib is very
investor-friendly,” said Chia, part of a team that oversees the
equivalent of $10.6 billion of assets. “They have a nice 
structural story that will underpin the strength of the ringgit.
We’ll probably see a lot of foreigners buy into these 
companies.”  Ringgit Appreciation  The ringgit has climbed 9.4 percent in 2010, trailing only
the 11 percent gain in the Thai baht in Asia outside of Japan.
Malaysia’s central bank on Aug. 18 relaxed currency controls,
allowing local firms to use the ringgit to settle cross-border
transactions.  Former premier Mahathir Mohamad fixed the ringgit at 3.8 to
the dollar in September 1998, blaming speculators including
hedge fund manager George Soros for the 34 percent plunge in its
currency. A ban on offshore trading of the ringgit has remained
in force since.  UOB Asset invested in Malaysia’s five-year government bonds
and also likes Indonesia’s debt maturing in five to seven years
because of the higher yields compared with regional counterparts,
said Chia, the portfolio manager for UOB Asset’s United Asian
Bond Fund.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.835 percent note maturing in
August 2015 fell five basis points yesterday to 3.29 percent,
according to data from stock exchange operator Bursa Malaysia.
The rate has dropped 58 basis points since reaching this year’s
high of 3.87 percent on Feb. 19, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Rigorous Surveillance’  The  extra  yield investors demand to hold Malaysia’s five-
year debt over U.S. Treasuries has narrowed 53 basis points, or
0.53 percentage point, to 179 points since the ringgit reached a
13-year high against the dollar on Nov. 5.  The ringgit will appreciate 5 percent to 2.98 per dollar by
the end of the third quarter of 2011, from 3.1210 in Kuala
Lumpur today, according to the median estimate of 13 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Malaysia’s central bank will maintain “rigorous
surveillance” to ensure markets aren’t overwhelmed from any
influx of funds, Zeti said yesterday.  “Of course, we will collaborate with other countries, if
the need arises and there is any risk to stability in our
region,” she said.  ‘Critical Stage’  South Korea’s finance ministry yesterday said the
government supports a law reviving a bond tax on international
investors as it seeks to stem capital inflows arising from
monetary easing in the U.S. Taiwan on Nov. 9 said overseas funds
can only invest up to 30 percent of their portfolio in the
island’s debt, while Thailand last month removed a 15 percent
tax exemption for foreigners on domestic bond income.  “Capital controls in Asia haven’t really reached a
critical stage,” said Chia. “We can’t really say the whole of
Asia is heading in that direction. I like Malaysia a lot.”  Chia’s United Asian Bond  Fund , which invests in debt issued
by Asian companies, financial institutions and governments,
returned 7.3 percent this year, outperforming the average 4.2
percent among its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indonesia is looking at a longer holding period for foreign
investors of central bank bills before they can be sold to the
secondary market, Perry Warjiyo, director for monetary policy at
Bank Indonesia, said in Jakarta on Oct. 29.  Indonesia Yields  Bonds in Indonesia have returned 20.4 percent this year,
the best performance among 10 local-currency debt indexes
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. Malaysia’s government securities
have gained 4.7 percent.  Overseas holdings of Malaysia’s debt climbed to 68 billion
ringgit ($21.7 billion) as of Sept. 30, 66 percent more than at
the end of last year, according to data from Bank Negara
Malaysia on Oct. 29. Ownership of Indonesian bonds climbed 80
percent this year to 194.9 trillion rupiah ($21.8 billion) as of
Nov. 16, data from the finance ministry’s website showed.  The yield on Indonesia’s 9.5 percent note maturing in June
2015 fell 2 basis points to 6.36 percent yesterday, according to
prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association. The  extra yield 
demanded over Treasuries has narrowed 33 basis points to 489
points since the rupiah reached a three-year high of 8,875 per
dollar on Nov. 5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indonesia’s “government bond yield is still pretty high,”
Chia said. The measures to curb flows “so far are not very
draconian,” he said. “The fundamentals have actually improved
a lot more than I expected for this country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 