-- NATO to Back European Anti-Missile Shield, Seek to Sway Medvedev on Merits
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-11-19T14:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/nato-to-back-european-anti-missile-shield-seek-to-sway-medvedev-on-merits.html
NATO was poised to start work on an
anti-missile shield to guard against attacks by “rogue”
states, seeking a linkup with Russia to build a broader defense
umbrella.  Allied officials said the 10-year, 200 million-euro ($275
million) cost of the shield, a Bush administration proposal
modified by President  Barack Obama , makes it a bargain at a time
of shrinking defense budgets.  “By reaching out and inviting Russia to cooperate with us,
I believe we also have a real chance to build a security roof
for the entire Euro-Atlantic area,”  North Atlantic Treaty
Organization  Secretary General  Anders Fogh Rasmussen  said before
a summit of alliance leaders in Lisbon today.  NATO is trying to turn the European anti-missile system,
which provoked Russian hostility when  George W. Bush  first
proposed it, into a fulcrum for cooperation with the Kremlin as
part of the U.S.-driven “reset” of East-West relations.  Alliance spokesman  James Appathurai  told reporters he is
“quite confident” that the alliance’s 28 government chiefs
will today endorse the project, which would build on a smaller-
scale system being developed to protect troops in the field.  Bush’s proposal foresaw permanent anti-missile bases in
Poland and the Czech Republic, two nations dominated by the
Soviet Union during the Cold War. Russia viewed the Bush plan as
a threat to its strategic arsenal.  Link to Russia  Obama’s plan  does away with fixed bases, relying on mobile
and sea-based radars and interceptors that the U.S. says would
be easier to tie in with Russian systems.  In a commentary published in today’s International Herald
Tribune, Obama said the system will provide “a role for all
allies, protection for all allies, and an opportunity for
cooperation with Russia.”  NATO leaders will try to persuade Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  of the merits of the system when he joins them at the
end of the summit tomorrow.  Russia is warming to the NATO initiative. Plans by the two
sides to conduct a joint assessment of security threats are
likely to pave the way to missile-defense collaboration, said
 Dmitry Rogozin , Russian ambassador to NATO.  “If we can reach the common ground then we can go further
and discuss how to block these common threats,” Rogozin said in
a Nov. 15 phone interview from Brussels. “Then cooperation on
an anti-missile defense system is possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Lisbon at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  