-- NATO Says Europe Risks Becoming ‘Paper Tiger’ on Cuts
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-11-19T20:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/nato-says-europe-risks-paper-tiger-status-amid-defense-budget-reductions.html
NATO’s chief warned that crisis-
driven cuts in European defense spending threaten to turn the
continent into a “paper tiger” in military matters and saddle
the U.S. with an excessive burden.  U.S. defense spending makes up 73 percent of the alliance
total, up from 49 percent a decade ago, Secretary General  Anders Fogh Rasmussen  said.  “This is a clear message to my dear European colleagues,”
Rasmussen told a youth forum before a summit of the 28  North
Atlantic Treaty Organization  leaders in Lisbon today. “The
Europeans should also invest a sufficient amount of money in
defense. Otherwise the common European defense and security
policy will just be a paper tiger, to speak bluntly.”  Deficit-wracked Britain , which went to war in Iraq and
Afghanistan with the U.S., plans to cut military spending by 8
percent by 2015. It spent 2.7 percent of gross domestic product
on defense in 2009, one of four European NATO allies to meet a 2
percent target. The Pentagon budget equaled 4 percent of GDP.  As European governments tighten their belts, Rasmussen
called for more joint weapons purchases and sharing of military
hardware, citing a U.K.-French plan to use each other’s aircraft
carriers and nuclear-testing facilities.  “We have a very clear and positive response to the
economic challenges,” Rasmussen told reporters after the first
session of the summit. “The clear answer to that is to pool
resources.”  French-British Cooperation  Britain and France field Europe’s most potent armies,
representing 45 percent of the continent’s military budget, 55
percent of its battle-ready forces and 70 percent of its
military research and technology.  “The Americans are very concerned about diverging military
spending among NATO allies,” said  Jan Techau , an analyst at the
NATO Defense College in Rome. “The sense is that some European
members may become free-riders and that the U.S will have to
pick up the tab as the Europeans spend less.”  Rasmussen also urged more joint ventures modeled on a NATO
timesharing program in which 12 countries operate three  Boeing
Co.  C-17 military transport jets from an airbase in Hungary.  The trans-Atlantic defense spending gap is “a matter of
concern,” said Rasmussen, who as Danish prime minister sent
troops to Iraq and Afghanistan. “It may create difficulties at
least in our trans-Atlantic cooperation. If Europe is lagging
behind technologically, then the interoperability and practical
military cooperation will be increasingly difficult.”  ‘Critical Capabilities’  Rasmussen said the summit will produce a wish list of
“critical capabilities” including helicopters that can
withstand Afghanistan’s rugged conditions, wide-body transport
planes, equipment to detect and neutralize roadside bombs, and
battlefield medical units.  Defense spending in most European countries remains
weighted to standing armies designed to counter a conventional
Soviet attack during the Cold War. Europe had 2.1 million men
under arms in 2009, compared with 1.4 million in the U.S.  Germany, for example, spent 1.4 percent of GDP on defense
in 2009, and 53 percent of its military budget went on
personnel. By contrast, the U.S. and Britain devoted 37 percent
of their defense budgets to labor costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Lisbon at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  