-- New York Needs Taxes or Fees for Transportation Projects, Ravitch Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-11-19T18:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/new-york-needs-taxes-or-fees-for-transportation-projects-ravitch-says.html
New York , approaching its borrowing
limit, needs new revenue sources to maintain its transportation
system and back debt for projects such as replacing the  Tappan
Zee Bridge , Lieutenant Governor  Richard Ravitch  said.  The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, operator of the
New York City subway system, and the state Transportation
Department, which  says  5,500 bridges need repair or replacement,
don’t have enough funding to cover operating costs and the new
borrowing needed for construction projects, Ravitch said in a
report to Governor  David Paterson .  “New York, therefore, faces a choice: significantly higher
taxes, fees, fares and tolls or a drastically diminished
transportation program that could jeopardize safety and economic
well-being,” Ravitch wrote.  Ravitch , 77, was appointed in July 2009 by Paterson to
break a tie between Republicans and Democrats in the state
Senate and serve as an adviser on budgetary and financial
issues. He is a former real estate developer and chairman of the
MTA. His term expires Dec. 31.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  last month canceled a
proposed train tunnel under the Hudson River, saying his state
couldn’t afford as much as $5 billion in potential overruns on
the $8.7 billion initial cost of the project. New York City
officials say they are studying a less-expensive proposal to
extend the city subway system under the river.  Tappan Zee  Deferred maintenance and age were blamed for the sudden
closure last year of a bridge connecting New York and Vermont
over Lake Champlain. Replacing the 55-year-old Tappan Zee, which
carries about 140,000 vehicles daily and costs $100 million
annually to maintain, is estimated to cost $6 billion to $10
billion, according to the report.  A regional strategy for tolls “that includes all key
bridges and statewide roads” could provide funds for projects
such as the Tappan Zee, the report said. The bridge over the
Hudson River, about 25 miles (40 kilometers) north of New York
City, connects Westchester and Rockland counties.  “The state should also explore the creation of special
taxing districts for certain mega-projects that have the
potential to dramatically increase economic activity and
property values in an area,” it said.  Port Authority  Financing options for the Tappan Zee include expanding the
jurisdiction of the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey to
include the bridge, Paterson said Nov. 18 in an interview on New
York City radio station WOR. The proposal, which would have the
states share the costs and revenue of the bridge, has been
presented to Christie, Paterson said.  New York, with more than $55 billion of bonds, is the
second-most-indebted state after California. It is approaching
the legal cap on its ability to sell new bonds, Budget Director
 Robert Megna  said yesterday in a speech to the Albany-based
 Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government.  A state law
passed in 2000 limits debt to 4 percent of residents’ personal
income.  Because of its borrowing cap, New York this year trimmed
the Transportation Departments’ five-year, $26 billion capital
plan to two years and $7 billion, Megna said.  At the MTA, which also operates a suburban rail network, a
five-year, $28 billion capital plan “faces a gap of at least
$10 billion for its final three years,” according to the
Ravitch report.  Taxing Options ‘Difficult’  “Taxing options to fill in these kinds of large gaps in
the capital infrastructure program are difficult to think
about,” Megna said.  An additional payroll tax approved last year for New York
City and surrounding counties in the state to fund the MTA has
been criticized by Republican lawmakers.  New York Governor-elect  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, has
promised a freeze on state taxes. He  proposed  maximizing federal
funding, adding private revenue sources and additional state
funds to pay for projects. He also proposed creating an
infrastructure bank to use federal and state money “as equity
and lever that equity” to create a larger pool of funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  