-- Giants Have to Choose Between Stopping Vick's Runs or Passes, Carson Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2010-11-19T17:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/nfl-giants-must-choose-to-stop-vick-s-runs-or-passes-harry-carson-says.html
The New York Giants have to decide
whether to stop Philadelphia Eagles quarterback  Michael Vick ’s
running or passing because they can’t do both, said  Harry Carson , Hall of Fame linebacker and former Giants team captain.  The Eagles (6-3) come into this weekend’s matchup after
beating the Washington Redskins 59-28 on Nov. 15 behind six
touchdowns -- four passing, two rushing -- from Vick. The
performance led the online gambling website  BetUS.com  to lower
Vick’s odds to win the National Football League’s Most Valuable
Player Award to 5-1 from 25-1 a week ago.  “He is a guy that has a tremendous amount of talent and
the onus is really going to be on the defense,” Carson said in
a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene 
and  Ken Prewitt . “You can’t defense him completely.”  Carson spent his 13-year career with the Giants and was
inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 2006. The 56-
year-old was a nine-time Pro Bowl selection and captain for 10
seasons, including the 1986 Super Bowl-winning team. The 6-3
Giants play the 6-3 Eagles in Philadelphia on Nov. 21.  Vick, 30, is the NFL’s top-rated passer after missing the
2007 and 2008 seasons and serving 18 months in a federal prison
in connection with dog fighting. Vick has thrown for 11
touchdowns with no interceptions this season, and rushed for
four scores while averaging 7.8 yards a carry.  “The best way to defend him is really to pick what you
want to eliminate,” Carson said. “If you want to eliminate him
running the ball then you have to basically put him into a vice
where the defensive linemen rush under control, contain their
lanes and keep him in the pocket.”  Giants Loss  The Giants lost 33-20 to the Dallas Cowboys on Nov. 14. The
winner of this week’s game, which starts at 8:20 p.m. at Lincoln
Financial Field, will gain sole possession of first place in the
National Football Conference East.  Carson added that Vick is also dangerous because he has
strong receivers and is a left-handed passer, where most
defenses are only used to defending right-handed quarterbacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 