-- Wheat's Jump Makes Buyers Book Cargoes Further Out, U.S. Trade Group Says
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2010-11-19T09:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/nigeria-may-become-top-buyer-of-u-s-wheat-as-demand-increases-group-says.html
Wheat buyers are purchasing cargoes
further ahead to ensure that they receive supplies of the staple
as prices climb, according to U.S. Wheat Associates Inc., a
trade group for the world’s largest exporter.  U.S. exports may advance in 2010-2011 after Russia halted
exports and buyers increased purchases, said Steven Wirsching,
director at the group’s west coast office in Portland. Africa,
led by Nigeria, will show strong growth and that nation may
become the top buyer, displacing Japan, he said in an interview.  Wheat has climbed about 43 percent since the end of June as
global supplies declined on adverse weather. Russia’s worst
drought in at least 50 years prompted the government to ban
exports in August through to next July 1, driving prices higher
and forcing importers to seek alternative supplies.  One reason that demand for U.S. wheat shipments is climbing
“is reduced supplies from the Black Sea region, primarily from
Russia,” Wirsching said in Seoul yesterday. “Secondarily, as
prices rise, buyers start to buy it further ahead, so they will
be assured of getting wheat supplies.”  Wheat for March delivery climbed as much as 1.2 percent to
$6.9275 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade today after Egypt
ordered 175,000 tons of U.S. wheat yesterday. The most-active
contract, which traded at $6.90 at 9:28 a.m. in London, surged
to $8.68 on Aug. 6 after the Russian export ban was announced.  Boosting Demand  Russia’s absence from the market and low corn supplies were
likely to continue boosting demand for U.S. wheat, said  Wayne Gordon , an analyst at Rabobank Groep NV. “My suspicion is that
this will be very much the story right up until we get to see
what the winter-wheat harvest looks like in the U.S.,” he said.  The world wheat harvest may shrink 5.1 percent to 647.7
million metric tons this crop year, the lowest level in three
years, after the Russian drought, the United Nations’ Food and
Agricultural Organization said in a report on Nov. 17.  Global usage may climb 1.2 percent to a record 668 million
tons, while stockpiles will slide 9.9 percent to 180.9 million
tons at the end of this season, the agency said. There may be
“harder times ahead unless production of major food crops
increases significantly in 2011,” the FAO said in the report.  The Russian withdrawal from the international market has
offered a chance for rivals to increase exports. AWB Ltd.,
Australia’s largest exporter, reported in September that there
was “very strong interest” in the nation’s wheat.  ‘Russian Situation’  U.S. Secretary of Agriculture  Tom Vilsack  said in August
that “other countries, including the U.S.” would help the
world avoid a global wheat shortage. The U.S., Canada and the
European Union will “be able to deal with the difficulties the
Russian situation has created,” Vilsack said then.  U.S. exporters sold 943,444 tons of wheat in the week to
Nov. 11 compared with 831,989 tons sold a week earlier, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture said yesterday. That takes outstanding
sales to 8.44 million tons in the marketing year that began June
1 compared with 3.97 million tons a year ago, it said.  Russia may restart grain shipments in the 2011-2012 season,
potentially exporting 15 million tons if the harvest totals 80
million tons, Grain Union President  Arkady Zlochevsky  said in an
interview yesterday.  “The markets that are really growing are located in
Africa,” Wirsching said after a seminar with South Korean
clients. Nigeria has a reason to claim the number-one spot as
the largest single buyer of U.S. wheat, ahead of Japan, he said.  Japan is currently the top export market for the U.S. grain,
followed by Nigeria, Mexico, Egypt, the Philippines and South
Korea, according to Wirsching. Nigeria’s “per capita income is
growing and they are consuming more food and they are looking
for more Western-style food products,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sungwoo Park  in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  