-- Nigeria May Keep Benchmark Rate at 6.25 Percent  in Bid to Slow Inflation
-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 2010-11-19T13:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/nigerian-central-bank-may-keep-key-rate-at-6-25-in-bid-to-slow-inflation.html
Nigeria’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged on Nov. 22, after
unexpectedly raising it by a quarter point in September, as it
looks to bring inflation below 10 percent, a survey showed.  The monetary policy rate will remain at 6.25 percent,
according to all four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
main lending rate to commercial banks will probably stay at 8.25
percent and the borrowing rate at 3.25 percent.  “I don’t see the wisdom in cutting rates,”  Rose Umoren ,
president of  Global Money Ltd. , a business research company,
said by phone today from the capital, Abuja.  A good harvest helped slow inflation in Africa’s most
populous nation to 13.4 percent in October from 13.6 percent a
month earlier, the  Abuja-based National Bureau of Statistics 
said on Nov. 17. The  Central Bank of Nigeria  wants to lower the
rate to below 10 percent, Governor  Lamido Sanusi  said on Sept.
16.  The bank has to take precautionary measures against a
“significant liquidity injection towards year-end,” Sanusi
said when the bank raised interest rates on Sept. 21.  Rising wage costs, increased government spending before
elections and higher food prices are threats to inflation,
Sanusi said. Plans by the government to end fuel subsidies may
also add to price pressures, he said.  With all the anticipated spending, the central bank needs
to “keep its checks in place,” Babatunde Obaniyi, analyst at
 Afrinvest West Africa Ltd. , a fund manager based in the
commercial hub of Lagos, said by phone.  Sanusi has forecast that Nigeria’s economy, the second-
biggest on the continent after South Africa, is expected to grow
7.8 percent in 2010, up from 7 percent last year, driven by non-
oil industries, such as agriculture.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 