-- Nissan to Buy 10% Holding in AvtoVAZ, Partner Russian Technologies Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-11-19T15:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/nissan-to-buy-10-of-automaker-avtovaz-russian-technologies-chief-says.html
Nissan Motor Co. , Japan’s third-
largest carmaker, aims to acquire a 10 percent stake in  OAO
AvtoVAZ , the Russian automaker’s state-owned investor said.  “The plan is for Nissan to buy a large shareholding of
about 10 percent,”  Russian Technologies AO  Chief Executive
Officer  Sergei Chemezov  told reporters in Moscow.  Carlos Ghosn ’s alliance of Nissan and  Renault SA  is
moving to take a majority stake in Togliatti-based AvtoVAZ, the
maker of Lada vehicles, after the French partner’s purchase of a
holding in 2008. Ghosn, who is chief executive officer of both
Renault and Nissan, said earlier this month that the alliance
will seek control of the Russian company.  Mitsuru Yonekawa , a
Nissan spokesman, declined to comment on Chemezov’s remarks.  “A stake would give Nissan the possibility of introducing
more of its products to Russian consumers, not only through
direct sales but also through technology it gives to AvtoVAZ,”
Dmitry Baranov, senior analyst at Finam Management in Moscow,
said in a telephone interview.  Renault paid $1 billion for its 25 percent stake in the
Russian carmaker. The company, which has its headquarters in the
Paris suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt, is upgrading AvtoVAZ’s
sprawling plant in Togliatti to roll out new models in 2012
under all three carmakers’ brands. Renault also owns 43 percent
of Yokohama-based Nissan.  The Japanese company will buy 4 percent of AvtoVAZ from
Russian Technologies, allowing the state-owned holding company
to maintain a blocking minority, while another 6 percent would
be acquired from Moscow-based brokerage Troika Dialog in the
first half of 2011, Chemezov said.  The Russian partners currently each own 25 percent of
AvtoVAZ. Troika Dialog may eventually sell all its holding,
allowing Renault-Nissan to take a controlling stake, he said.
Russian Technologies’ holding would remain at 25 percent as it
plans to buy new stock in AvtoVAZ.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at   bcook7@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 