-- North Korea Building Experimental Nuclear Reactor, Satellite Photos Show
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-11-19T20:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/north-korea-building-experimental-nuclear-reactor-satellite-photos-show.html
North Korea is building an
experimental reactor, according to satellite photos and visits
by two U.S. experts to a nuclear site at Yongbyon, raising
concern that the facility could be used for military purposes.  “They could theoretically design it to make plutonium for
nuclear weapons,” said  Paul Brannan , a senior analyst at the
 Institute for Science and International Security , a Washington-
based group that works to stop the spread of nuclear weapons and
obtained the satellite images taken Nov 4.  North Korea also may be trying to make the case that to
fuel the reactor, it needs a uranium-enrichment program, which
can be used for a nuclear weapon, Brannan said.  North Korea is under international sanctions for its
pursuit of nuclear weapons. Six-party talks on the matter --
involving North Korea, South Korea, China, Japan, Russia and the
U.S. -- have been stalled since North Korea walked out in April
2009 and then conducted its second nuclear-weapon test a month
later.  U.S. State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said
reactor construction would violate agreements North Korea made
under a six-party joint statement in 2005. North Korea “has to
demonstrate a willingness to meet its international obligations
and in fact follow commitments that it has made,” Crowley said.  ‘Either-Or Proposition’  “What North Korea needs to understand is that it cannot
have its cake and eat it too,” he said. “It continues to act
in a way that presumes you can have a nuclear program and have
normal relations with the rest of the world including the United
States. This is really an either-or proposition.”  Charles Pritchard , a former U.S. State Department special
envoy for talks with North Korea, visited the Yongbyon site on
Nov. 5 and was told that the new reactor is intended to generate
electricity for civilian use. The light water reactor is in the
early stages of development, and these types of plants are
generally “less proliferation-prone,” Pritchard said.  Still, it is possible to find ways to extract fissile
material from such reactors to be used for bomb-making, he said.  North Korea needs to open the facility to inspectors with
the United Nations  International Atomic Energy Agency  to verify
the plant would be used for peaceful electricity generation,
said Pritchard, who is president of the Washington-based  Korea
Economic Institute .  Taking Their Word  “We are taking them at their word, and, quite frankly,
their word isn’t good enough,” Pritchard said.  After North Korea takes “affirmative steps to
denuclearize,” the U.S. is willing to “have a conversation”
about meeting the country’s energy needs, Crowley said.  Evan Feigenbaum , a deputy assistant secretary of state for
Asian affairs in the administration of President  George W. Bush ,
said the reactor “is inconsistent with the denuclearization
pledges they made in the context of the six-party talks.”  “This raises the question of whether they are moving back
to a cycle of more provocative behavior,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  