-- Obama Says NATO Agrees on Need for Missile Defense
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-11-20T11:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/obama-says-nato-nations-agree-on-need-for-missile-defense-for-first-time.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
meets President  Barack Obama  and NATO leaders for talks on
participation in a missile defense system that’s previously been
opposed by the Kremlin.  An anti-missile shield to protect Europe and North America
“offers a role for all of our allies to respond to the threats
of our times,” Obama said yesterday in Lisbon at a summit of
North Atlantic Treaty Organization leaders. “We look forward to
working with Russia to build our cooperation with them in this
area as well recognizing that we share many of the same
threats.”  NATO is trying to turn the European anti-missile system
into a fulcrum for cooperation with Russia as part of the U.S.-
driven “reset” of East-West relations.  Medvedev  joins leaders of NATO’s 28 member states for talks
later today. Russia had objected to the plan originally proposed
by former President  George W. Bush  yet is warming to the NATO
initiative. Plans for a joint assessment of security threats are
likely to pave the way to missile-defense collaboration, said
 Dmitry Rogozin , Russian ambassador to NATO.  “If we can reach the common ground then we can go further
and discuss how to block these common threats,” Rogozin said in
a Nov. 15 phone interview from Brussels. “Then cooperation on
an anti-missile defense system is possible.”  “By reaching out and inviting Russia to cooperate with us,
I believe we also have a real chance to build a security roof
for the entire Euro-Atlantic area,” NATO Secretary General
 Anders Fogh Rasmussen  said.  Smaller-Scale System  Allied officials said the 10-year, 200 million-euro ($273
million) cost of the shield, as modified by Obama from the Bush
administration proposal, makes it a bargain at a time of
shrinking defense budgets. It would build on a smaller-scale
system being developed to protect troops in the field.  Bush’s original proposal foresaw permanent anti-missile
bases in Poland and the Czech Republic, two nations dominated by
the Soviet Union during the Cold War. Russia viewed the Bush
plan as a threat to its strategic arsenal.  Obama’s plan  does away with fixed bases, relying on mobile
and sea-based radars and interceptors that the U.S. says would
be easier to tie in with Russian systems.  NATO members Turkey and France had also raised questions
about the missile shield. The U.S. aims to sway Turkey by not
naming in a summit communique its neighbor Iran as the potential
missile threat, and by offering the prospect of a degree of
Turkish military control over the system. French officials said
they agreed to sign on after winning language in the agreement
stating that NATO considers the missile shield as a complement
to nuclear deterrence, and not a replacement.  ‘Working With Russia’  Obama said that NATO members “look forward to working with
Russia to build our cooperation with them in this area as well
recognizing that we share many of the same threats.”  Obama also said NATO leaders back him on the Strategic Arms
Reduction Treaty with Russia, saying it will enhance European
security as well.  The treaty is awaiting ratification by the U.S. Senate. The
president’s push for a vote suffered a setback this week when
Arizona Senator  Jon Kyl , the chamber’s second-ranking Republican
and one of his party’s leading voices on nuclear-weapons policy,
said the issues are too complex to resolve by year’s end.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Lisbon at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
 James G. Neuger  in Lisbon at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  