-- Obama Cites NATO Support for Russia Nuclear-Arms Treaty to Pressure Senate
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-11-19T21:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/obama-cites-nato-support-for-russia-nuclear-arms-treaty-to-pressure-senate.html
President  Barack Obama  kept pressure
on the U.S. Senate to ratify a nuclear arms treaty with Russia,
saying European governments agree that the accord will enhance
security on both sides of the Atlantic.  After meeting with the other leaders of  North Atlantic
Treaty Organization  nations today in Lisbon, Obama said
ratification of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty is important
to Europe as well as to the U.S.  “The message that I’ve received since I arrived from my
fellow leaders here at NATO could not be clearer: New START will
strengthen our alliance, and it will strengthen European
security,” Obama said.  Ratification of the treaty, which Obama and Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  signed in April, stalled in the Senate
this week when Arizona Senator  Jon Kyl , the chamber’s second-
ranking Republican and one of his party’s leading voices on
nuclear-weapons policy, said the issues are too complex to
resolve by year’s end.  Before leaving for Lisbon, Obama convened top former
advisers to Democratic and Republican presidents at the White
House to lend their support for the treaty, which he called a
“cornerstone” of the U.S. relationship with Russia.  Medvedev will be in Lisbon for meetings with NATO leaders
tomorrow. Obama said failing to ratify the accord “will put at
risk the substantial progress that has been made in advancing
our nuclear security and our partnership with Russia.”  Changes in Senate  Letting action lapse until 2011, when the Democratic
majority in the Senate shrinks following Republican victories in
the midterm elections, may make it more difficult to win
approval. Ratification requires a two-thirds majority in the
Senate.  Before leaving for Lisbon, Obama said he was “confident”
that the treaty will be ratified before the end of this year’s
congressional session.  “I would strongly regret if the ratification of the Start
treaty is delayed,” NATO Secretary General  Anders Fogh Rasmussen  said in Lisbon. “I strongly encourage all parties
involved to do their utmost to ensure an early ratification of
the START treaty.”  The treaty limits each side’s strategic warheads to no more
than 1,550, from 2,200 allowed previously, and sets a maximum of
800 land-, air- and sea-based launchers.  Each of the last three arms-reduction treaties was ratified
with more than 90 votes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Lisbon at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  