-- Lockheed Gets $3.48 Billion U.S. Contract for 31 F-35s as Program Reviewed
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-11-19T23:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/lockheed-gets-3-48-billion-u-s-contract-for-31-f-35s-as-program-reviewed.html
Lockheed Martin Corp.  received a
fourth production contract for 31 F-35 Joint Strike Fighter jets
valued at $3.48 billion as the Pentagon’s most expensive weapons
program faces new questions over costs and delays.  Lockheed will build 16 planes for the U.S. Marine Corps
configured for short takeoffs and vertical landings, 10 of the
Air Force version of the jet, 4 Navy models and 1 for the U.K.,
the  Pentagon said today . The Bethesda, Maryland-based company
has an option to assemble a 32nd aircraft for the Netherlands.  The award provides a boost to  Lockheed  on the eve of a Nov.
22 review of the JSF led by the Defense Department’s top arms
buyer,  Ashton Carter . Development and combat testing is running
more than four years behind schedule on the F-35, a program with
a projected price tag of $382 billion.  Lockheed and the Pentagon will share on a 50-50 basis all
overruns topping the F-35’s “target price.” Lockheed would
have absorb the entire overrun once the price exceeds an upper-
limit “ceiling,” while any savings for beating the target
price would be split between the company and the government.  The contract caps a month of negotiations in which the
Pentagon sought to convert from an agreement that paid the
company all expenses plus a fee for profit while requiring the
government to cover any overruns. Those were the provisions for
the first 3 JSF production lots of 2, 12 and 17 planes.  Purchase Rules  Shifting to a so-called fixed-price incentive contract is a
pillar of Defense Secretary  Robert Gates ’s bid to improve arms
purchasing, with contractors incurring greater financial risk to
ensure that programs don’t exceed budget projections. Companies
also would reap bigger profits for beating the forecasts.  The JSF is the Defense Department’s largest weapons
program. Different versions of the plane are designed to be
used, with modifications, by the Air Force, Navy and Marines,
instead of each service buying its own aircraft.  Lockheed gained 28 cents to $69.43 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have declined 7.9
percent in 2010.  Next week’s Pentagon review of the JSF is the third such
study in less than a year. Officials are supposed to receive
details from an assessment conducted by the program manager,
Vice Admiral  David Venlet , as the Defense Department seeks to
avoid “further surprises,” Pentagon press secretary  Geoff Morrell  said yesterday.  No Decisions  Venlet “has discovered additional issues that are of
concern,” Morrell said. There is more software code “left to
be written than what we thought,” said Morrell, who declined to
give details on any potential new costs or delays and said no
decisions were likely at the session.  Gates will take into account the review’s findings to
determine the 2012 budget for the program, Morrell said. A
Senate committee has voted to cut 10 planes from the Pentagon’s
request for 43 F-35s as Congress works to finish a defense
budget for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1.  Lockheed is focused on getting the JSF “into the hands of
U.S. and allied pilots as quickly and cost-effectively as
possible,”  Larry Lawson , the company’s F-35 program manager,
said in a statement.  The F-35 program has about 900 suppliers in 45 states,
Lockheed Martin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  