-- Crude Oil Rises, Paring Weekly Loss, as Concern Eases Over Ireland's Debt
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-11-19T08:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/oil-drops-below-82-on-speculation-ireland-bailout-won-t-ease-debt-concern.html
Oil rose, paring its biggest weekly
loss in two months in New York, amid speculation a European
Union-led bailout of Ireland may be enough to stabilize
sovereign-debt concerns in the region.  Futures retraced losses of as much as 0.5 percent as the
dollar dropped against the euro, bolstering the appeal of
commodities as an alternative investment. Prices rose 1.8
percent yesterday after Ireland’s central bank governor said he
expects the country to seek help.  “The market direction is still uncertain even though the
sovereign debt risk in Ireland might be helped by a bailout,”
said  Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund manager at Astmax Ltd. in
Tokyo. “It’s mostly being driven by financial considerations.”  Crude for December delivery rose as much as 65 cents, or
0.8 percent, to $82.50 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. It was at $82.54 at 8:42 a.m. London
time. Brent crude for January settlement rose as much as 64
cents, or 0.8 percent, to $85.69 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The Nymex December future expires today. The more-actively
traded January contract was up 54 cents at $82.96 a barrel. Oil
traded in London is $2.70 a barrel more than New York contracts,
more than double the spread of a week ago.  Crude has dropped 2.7 percent this week, the most since the
seven days ended Sept. 17, because of Europe’s debt concern and
speculation that China, the world’s biggest energy-consuming
country, will raise interest rates and slow growth.  Ireland, China  “We’ve been worried about two major issues, in Ireland’s
debt concern and Chinese rate rises,” said  David Taylor , a
market analyst at CMC Markets Ltd. in Sydney.  The dollar declined for a third day against the euro to
trade at $1.3671, after losing 0.8 percent yesterday. The  Dollar
Index , which measures the greenback against six other major
world currencies, was down 0.2 percent.  Irish Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said yesterday
in an interview with state broadcaster RTE that he expects the
country to ask the EU and the International Monetary Fund for
“tens of billions” of euros to rescue its banks.  Oil in New York may increase next week amid speculation
Ireland will accept the bailout, a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Eighteen of 38 analysts and traders, or 47 percent, forecast
crude will climb through Nov. 26. Ten respondents, or 26
percent, predicted prices will fall and 10 estimated there would
be little change. Last week, 43 percent said futures would rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 Christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  