-- London Project Turns Unprofitable Developer Into Market Darling
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-11-19T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/london-project-turns-unprofitable-developer-into-market-darling.html
Northacre Plc , an unprofitable
London developer, became the second-best performing real-estate
stock in Europe this year thanks to just one project that’s
still in progress.  Sales at The Lancasters redevelopment, a city block of
1850s townhouses overlooking Hyde Park, have probably been
sufficient to entitle the company to a 50 percent share in the
profits under an agreement with partner Minerva Plc. The  shares 
have climbed to 122.5 pence from 24 pence this year, more than a
fivefold gain, compared with 4.3 percent average decline for the
50 members of the FTSE AIM Real Estate Index.  One shareholder “hugged and kissed me” at the company’s
Aug. 3 annual meeting, Chief Executive Officer  Klas Nilsson , 69,
said in an interview in The Lancasters’ model apartment. The
grateful investor bought 10,000 pounds ($16,000) of  Northacre
stock  when it languished at 2 pence, an investment that was
worth 612,500 pounds at yesterday’s closing price.  Apartments in the 77-unit  Lancasters  went on sale amid
increased demand from wealthy overseas investors, who are using
the pound’s weakness as an opportunity to buy homes in central
London. A shortage of properties for sale for more than 1
million pounds pushed prices higher, making luxury homes in
London outpace the rest of the U.K. housing market.  “They have hit the sweet spot in the market,” said
Charlie Ellingworth, the co-founder of  Property Vision , a unit
of HSBC Private Bank that advises wealthy investors on buying
homes. “If you want to buy something new and of that level of
quality in central London, your choices are limited.”  Profit Share  Northacre has raised almost 250 million pounds selling
about 60 percent of The Lancasters apartments, Nilsson said.
Minerva, the second-largest developer in the City of London
financial district, agreed to split profit equally if sales
exceed the project’s estimated 170 million-pound costs by 20
percent. Northacre would only get a 5 percent share if profits
are 10 percent or less above costs.  PI Portugal Global Immobilien AG , a German real estate
company with a market value of 2.9 million euros ($3.9 million),
is the only company in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region
to have a bigger share-price increase this year.  Sustaining the stock’s value will depend on Northacre
finding another profitable development by the time work ends on
The Lancasters in August 2011.  “Our share price will go down unless we have something in
the pipeline,” said Nilsson, a Swede who trained as an
architect in Germany before coming to the U.K. and founding
Northacre in 1989. “We have a year.”  Future Plans  The company plans to resubmit a planning application in the
first half of next year to redevelop Vicarage Gate House, a
former nursing home overlooking Kensington Palace, after a
seven-year planning battle. The property, which Northacre would
develop with Singapore-based real estate investor  Ong Beng Seng ,
would take three years to complete.  A partnership formed in April with private-equity investor
Evans Randall Ltd., part-owner of the London tower known as the
Gherkin, may help Northacre get development finance as it scours
the British capital for sites, Nilsson said.  “They have brought some interesting financial partners to
us,” he said. “We are aiming for projects for which we will be
remembered -- landmark projects.”  The time it takes to get planning consent and construction
permits is critical for niche developers like Northacre, which
has a  market value  of just 32.7 million pounds. A single project
can make the difference between an annual profit and a loss.  Unprofitable  The company reported  losses  totaling 4 million pounds for
the two years through February. Aside from property sales, the
company gets income from its Intarya interior design arm and its
Nilsson architecture unit.  Northacre is focusing on selling the remaining apartments,
priced from 900,000 pounds to 16.5 million pounds for the 5,385
square-foot (500-square-meter) show apartment that opened in
June.  Refurbishment of the 192,000-square-foot former hotel began
in 2008, with the heritage-protected façade retained as the
interior was gutted. The front gardens were excavated and will
be covered over again for two underground stories of garages and
a third-story swimming pool, gymnasium and leisure facility.  “There’s a lot of foreign money seeking to invest in
London residential property,” Nilsson said. While London luxury
home sales have slowed in the final quarter as the end of the
year approaches, he expects all the units to have sold by the
time work at The Lancasters is completed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  