-- N.Z. Rescuers Wait to Enter Mine; Air Tests Are Inconclusive After Blast
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-11-20T10:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/one-dead-after-explosion-at-new-zealand-s-pike-river-mine-herald-reports.html
New Zealand  rescue workers  have been
forced to wait for tests to show the air is safe before entering
a coal mine shaft where 29 men are missing in the country’s
first mining disaster in more than 40 years.  “I’m not prepared to put people underground until we can
prove it’s a safe environment,” police superintendent Gary
Knowles said at a news conference in Greymouth on the west coast
of the nation’s South Island, 50 kilometers (30 miles) from the
mine site. “We just need the right opportunity and the right
time to get down there.”  Officials stopped testing air in the mine tunnel at 4 p.m.
local time and won’t resume taking samples before tomorrow, Sky
News reported, citing  local police . Families of the missing
workers are becoming frustrated that rescue teams haven’t yet
tried to enter the shaft, Sky said.  An explosion ripped through the mine yesterday afternoon,
knocking out power to its ventilation system. The workers’
condition and location is unknown and there has been no contact
with them, said  Peter Whittall , chief executive officer of  Pike
River Coal Co. , which runs the mine.  The men comprise 16 Pike River employees and 13
contractors, whose ages range from 17 to 62, Whittall said.
Twenty-four of those trapped are New Zealanders, two are
Australian, two are British and one is South African, the New
Zealand Herald reported, citing Greymouth police.  The two Britons originate from Scotland, the Foreign Office
in London said today.  ‘Gas Hazard’  The results from air quality tests of samples taken from
the top of the mine tunnel are “inconclusive,” Whittall said
at the press conference today. Rescuers are monitoring levels of
gases including methane, carbon dioxide and ethane, he said.
Knowles said he had a 16-strong team waiting to enter the mine.  While the mine is “what I would class a moderately gassy
mine,” there was nothing to suggest a heightened risk of an
explosion, Whittall said. Gas is a “hazard” and “something we
work with all the time,” he said.  Two miners who managed to walk to the surface yesterday
were treated in hospital and discharged today, West Coast
District Health Board Chief Executive David Meates said.  Prime Minister  John Key  told reporters in Greymouth he had
received international messages of support, including an e-mail
from Britain’s  Prince William .  Australian Foreign Minister  Kevin Rudd  said the country was
providing technical officials to assist with the rescue effort.
Australia is “gravely concerned” about two of its nationals
who may be involved in the accident, he said in Sydney.  Help From Australia  New South Wales Premier  Kristina Keneally  said the state
was sending eight mine rescue officials to the site, while
Queensland Premier  Anna Bligh  said her state had sent four mine
safety officers, including two gas chemists, and equipment.  New Zealand’s last mining disaster was in 1967, when 19
people died in a blast at the Strongman coal mine, also near
Greymouth.  Mining accidents are more common in countries such as
China, where a gas explosion rocked an underground mine in Henan
province on Oct. 16, killing 37 people. In Chile, 33 men were
rescued from a copper and gold mine last month following the
world’s longest mine rescue.  An accident at Massey Energy Co.’s Upper Big Branch mine in
West Virginia in April killed 29 people.  China, the world’s biggest coal producer and consumer, has
the worst mine safety record, with an average of seven deaths a
day in accidents last year. In Chile, Mining Minister  Laurence Golborne  said Oct. 25 that the government will probably announce
changes to health and safety rules by the end of November.  Ventilation System  Yesterday’s blast came without any warning of “heightened
risk,” said  Andrew Little , the national secretary for the
Engineering, Printing & Manufacturing Union, representing 71 of
about 140 workers at the mine. “It’s only been in production
for a year or so,” he said. “They delayed production because
they weren’t satisfied that the ventilation system was right, so
they’ve been pretty careful about that.”  Pike River  is part-owned by India’s  Gujarat NRE Coke Ltd. 
and Saurashtra Fuels Pvt., which also take some of its low-ash,
low-phosphorus coking coal, used by steelmakers. The mine was
forecast to produce 320,000 to 360,000 metric tons of coal in
the year through June, the company said Oct. 19.  Pike River shares slumped 14 percent to 61 Australian cents
in Sydney yesterday before trading was halted. The company fell
4.4 percent to 88 New Zealand cents by the Wellington close.  Mining employs about 6,000 people in New Zealand, according
to government website  www.beehive.govt.nz . The industry earned
about NZ$1.1 billion ($857 million) in export receipts in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  