-- Hong Kong Increases Tax on Property Resold Within Two Years to Cool Market
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-11-20T05:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/hong-kong-said-to-plan-further-steps-to-cool-property-market-stocks-drop.html
Hong Kong intensified a yearlong
battle to curb surging home prices with additional taxes and
higher down payments a day after the International Monetary Fund
warned that asset inflation may derail the city’s  economy .  Homes sold within six months of purchase will incur a 15
percent stamp duty from today, Financial Secretary  John Tsang 
said in a briefing yesterday. Down payments for homes costing
HK$12 million ($1.5 million) or more will rise to 50 percent,
from 40 percent. A stock gauge of developers in Hong Kong fell
for the eighth day in nine ahead of the announcements.  “The measures will likely have the biggest and most
lasting impact on property prices seen to date,”  Donna Kwok , a
Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a report.
“Hong Kong has jumped onto the band wagon of Asian central
banks and is erecting its own defenses to fend off the flood”
of capital from the U.S. easing.  Governments from South Korea to Brazil are seeking to stem
fund inflows into their higher-yielding markets after the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s expanded monetary stimulus. Hong Kong is
acting after home prices rose more than 50 percent since the
beginning of 2009. The island’s currency peg to the dollar
prevents its de-facto central bank from raising interest rates.  Curbing Threats  “The unusual surge in flat prices has attracted
speculators; this coupled with quantitative easing measures have
distorted the market expectation regarding inflation and asset
prices,” Tsang said. “The government is resolute in
maintaining economic stability and curbing any threat to
people’s livelihoods.”  Policy makers in Singapore share Tsang’s concern that
housing price gains may make homes unaffordable to locals. In
August, Singapore tightened mortgages and levied a stamp duty on
all sales of residential units and land within three years of
the purchase date.  The  Hang Seng Property Index , which tracks the city’s
seven-biggest builders, fell 1.3 percent yesterday to the  lowest 
since Oct. 29. It has declined 7.6 percent since this year’s
peak on Nov. 8. It  ended  the week 4.1 percent lower, its biggest
weekly drop since the five days ended May 7.  Stamp Duty  Properties resold within 6 months to 12 months will
incur a 10 percent stamp duty, while those resold from 12 months
to 24 months will be charged 5 percent, Tsang said yesterday.
The stamp duty will be split between buyers and sellers, he said.  Down payments for homes costing between HK$8 million and
HK$12 million will be increased to 40 percent from 30 percent,
Hong Kong Monetary Authority Chief Executive  Norman Chan  said
yesterday. The maximum loan to value for non-owner occupied
residential properties will be lowered to 50 percent, Chan said.  ‘Deter Speculation’  The additional stamp duty “is quite substantial and is a
way to deter speculation,” said Benedict Ma, Hong Kong-based
associate director of research at CB Richard Ellis Group Inc.,
the world’s biggest real-estate services firm. “Investors,
especially those in the luxury market, will have to reassess
whether this is really the right time to get into the market.”  Government-backed Hong Kong Mortgage Corp. will introduce a
cap of HK$6.8 million on the value of properties it covers, it
said in a statement.  The new measures would “impact on market sentiment,
leading to a fall in home sales volume,” said  David Ng , a Hong
Kong-based property analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
“Home prices won’t see a decline immediately as speculators
could still keep their stocks in the low interest rate
environment.”  The IMF said in a report this week Hong Kong’s accelerating
asset  inflation  risks causing a bust that leads to deflation and
an extended economic “downturn,” and urged further measures to
rein in prices. The city has raised down-payment ratios and
boosted land supply to curb prices, which surpassed a 1997 peak
on the back of record-low mortgage rates and an influx of
mainland Chinese buyers.  Hong Kong Measures  In April, Hong Kong raised the tax on homes selling for
more than HK$20 million to 4.25 percent from 3.75 percent.  The government announced Aug. 13 it’s tightening lending
rules on luxury and investment properties and increasing land
supply to curb prices. Down payments for apartments costing
HK$12 million or more and for investment properties were raised
to 40 percent, from 30 percent.  Home prices have since risen 5 percent, according to
 Centaline Property Agency Ltd. , the city’s biggest privately
held real-estate brokerage.  Cooling measures have come “late,” said  Justin Chiu ,
executive director at Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., controlled by
Hong Kong’s richest man  Li Ka-shing . The measures target short-
term speculation, which was less than 5 percent of total home
sales, Chiu said yesterday.  Supply Boost  Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  said in his Oct. 13 policy
address the government will stop offering residency to
foreigners who buy property in the city.  South Korea revived a tax on foreigners investing in its
bonds this week; Thailand is ending foreigners’ 15 percent tax
exemption on income from domestic bonds, while Brazil tripled a
tax on purchases of local fixed-income assets by overseas
investors.  Hong Kong’s government also is cracking down on marketing
tactics it has described as deceptive. It plans to restrict
common features, including clubhouses, developers claim as part
of apartments, to 10 percent of gross floor area from April 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.netoomberg.net  