-- Oracle Rests SAP Case Without Apotheker Video at Trial
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-11-19T20:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/oracle-rests-sap-case-without-apotheker-evidence.html
Oracle Corp.  rested its copyright
infringement damages case against  SAP AG  today without showing
jurors the videotaped deposition of former SAP Chief Executive
Officer  Leo Apotheker , who is now  Hewlett-Packard Co. ’s CEO.  “In the end, their interest in Leo amounted to little more
than a PR sideshow, especially now that they didn’t show the
video deposition,”  William Wohl , an SAP spokesman, said in an
e-mail. “This case is not about that -- it’s a damages case.”  David Boies , Oracle’s lead attorney at the trial,
previously said testimony from Apotheker was important to the
case because he was “at the center of” the conduct by the
former SAP unit TomorrowNow that illegally downloaded Oracle
software.  The video of Apotheker “didn’t add anything,” Boies said
today in an interview outside the courtroom. The deposition was
taken in 2008 and Apotheker testified about matters that were
“superseded” by agreements SAP made not to contest that it was
liable for TomorrowNow’s infringement or that it contributed to
the infringement.  Safra Catz , Oracle’s co-president, testified today in the
portion of the trial in which the Redwood City, California-based
company sought to rebut SAP’s assertions that it should pay no
more than about $40 million in damages. Oracle is seeking at
least $1.7 billion.  Oracle is the  second-biggest provider  of business
application software behind Walldorf, Germany-based SAP and
competes with HP in the market for computer servers.  ‘Clear Proof’  Mylene Mangalindan , an HP spokeswoman, said Apotheker had a
“limited role” in the SAP unit’s conduct.  “Oracle’s current stance is clear proof that they have
been trying to harass Leo and interfere with his work at HP,”
Mangalindan said in an e-mail. “Leo was never asked to give an
additional deposition.”  Boies said earlier today that Oracle showed a short excerpt
of Apotheker’s video during opening arguments.  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, said Boies, who wasn’t in
court for opening statements, misspoke and that no portion of
the video was shown.  Oracle said it was unable to serve Apotheker with a
subpoena to compel him to testify in person at the trial.  Closing arguments are scheduled to begin Nov. 22, after
which the jury will begin deliberations.  Conservative, Reasonable  Catz today called the $1.7 billion in damages that  Oracle 
is seeking “conservative” and “reasonable.”  “This whole thing was never just little TomorrowNow,”
Catz told the jury. “They were a part of it, they participated
in the use,” she said, referring to SAP.  “You just made that up, didn’t you?” said Greg Lanier,
SAP’s attorney. He said the evidence showed that SAP never used
Oracle’s software or its intellectual property.  “The intellectual property was being used by SAP
salespeople with TomorrowNow to take Oracle customers,” Catz
responded.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 