-- How Brazil’s Rousseff Can Keep Markets Sane: Alexandre Marinis
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   M a r i n i s
-- 2010-11-19T02:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/how-brazil-s-rousseff-can-keep-markets-sane-alexandre-marinis.html
If Brazil’s President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  wants to foster investment to sustain economic growth
and accelerate the convergence between domestic and
international interest rates without stoking inflation, she
needs to keep former Finance Minister  Antonio Palocci  in the
government’s decision-making nucleus. Anything else would be an
unparalleled waste and an irreparable mistake.  As President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s administration
showed, the success of an economic policy, and consequently of
the whole of the government, depends on the degree of
credibility that it can transmit to investors and business
leaders. The more credible this economic policy is, the less
sacrifice required of citizens while political costs to a
president and his allies are limited. Hence the importance of
Palocci.  No other member of the Worker’s Party who is close to
Rousseff enjoys Palocci’s stature with entrepreneurs, bankers,
investors, congressmen, journalists and even political
adversaries. It comes from Palocci’s personal appeal, political
moderation, negotiating skills and his competent handling of the
economy during Lula’s first four years in office. This gives
Rousseff the unique opportunity to use Palocci to make the most
of the measures needed to keep the economy growing enough to
ensure her administration’s success.  Since 2008, the Lula government has eased fiscal policy too
much, relying excessively on monetary policy to control
aggregate demand and  inflation . This makes it harder to reduce
real interest rates in Brazil, where they are stuck at about 6
percent compared with near-zero or even negative rates in more
developed economies.  High Rates  High interest rates, in turn, inhibit productive
investments, since entrepreneurs prefer to leave their money in
the bank rather than use it to expand and add to economic growth
without spurring inflation.  Starting next year, Rousseff will have several big
challenges. The first will be to reconsider the effectiveness
that the government attributes to public spending and to
interest rates in controlling inflation. A second will be to
manage the effects on the Brazilian economy of the weakening
U.S.  dollar . A third is to stimulate the private sector to
finance major infrastructure investments. Palocci can help
Rousseff face these challenges and many others.  Public Spending  For example, before the world credit crisis, Brazil’s
federal government spent 79 percent of its net revenue on
payroll, pensions and administrative expenses. In the 12 months
ended in August, these expenses already accounted for 87 percent
of revenue. Over his two terms in office, Lula added 256,000
government workers, increased government workers’ wages
aggressively, and boosted the  minimum wage  -- to which pension
benefits are pegged -- by 52 percent above the inflation rate.  The fact that these expenses can’t be reduced in the short
run prevents expansion of federal investments, which continue to
represent a scant 7 percent of net revenue. This meager figure
hasn’t increased meaningfully even after the government reduced
its  primary surplus  to less than 3 percent of gross domestic
product, down from 4.2 percent two years ago.  On top of this, the government has engaged in a series of
accounting maneuvers -- the share sale by Petroleo Brasileiro
SA, the excessive reliance on dividends from state ventures, or
anticipation of court deposits and revenue of Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras SA -- to produce primary surpluses that are in no
way the result of fiscal austerity.  Palocci’s Presence  Palocci is a key element in helping Rousseff convince
investors and business leaders that public spending won’t keep
growing in an uncontrolled fashion that makes it hard to
restrain inflation. The simple presence of Palocci close to
Rousseff would give greater weight to her words, as was
demonstrated in her first speech after winning the election on
Oct. 31.  Should Rousseff announce, for example, a target for
reducing the net public-sector  debt  from the present 41 percent
of GDP to 30 percent in 2014, the economic impact of such a
statement would be greater if Palocci was seen as having input
in the decision. The same would be true of any announcement of
measures concerning foreign exchange or long-term private
investments.  That is why suggesting that Palocci might be appointed
minister of health or communications seems to make little sense,
not only economically, but also politically.  It is true that if he were leading the Health Ministry,
Palocci could pave the way to a possible candidacy for
governorship of São Paulo state in 2014. It is also true that
placing Palocci in the president’s office, as chief of staff,
general secretary of the presidency, or in any other highly
visible post close to the president-elect, wouldn’t prevent him
from seeking this or any other elected post in the future.
Rousseff herself, who was Lula’s chief of staff, is a living
proof of this.  Palocci, a doctor and skilled political tactician, could
do a good job at Health, an area in which Lula and the Workers’
Party haven’t won high marks. That wouldn’t justify taking him
out of the presidential circle of economic decision-makers. It’s
hard to imagine that the Workers’ Party would be successful in
the 2012 municipal elections, or in the state and national
elections of 2014, if Rousseff’s presidency is a failure.  ( Alexandre Marinis , political economist and founding
partner of Mosaico Economia Politica, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Alexandre Marinis  in Sao Paulo at  amarinis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  