-- Toyota Acceleration Cases Won't Be Tossed, Judge Says in Tentative Ruling
-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-11-19T20:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/toyota-acceleration-cases-won-t-be-tossed-judge-says-in-tentative-ruling.html
A federal judge tentatively ruled
that he will reject most of  Toyota Motor Corp. ’s first major
legal challenge to class-action lawsuits filed against the
automaker by car owners over sudden acceleration.  The car owners’ lawyers provided sufficient evidence to
allow their cases to go forward, U.S. District Judge  James V. Selna  in Santa Ana, California, said in a tentative ruling
posted on his court’s website. Selna heard arguments today over
Toyota’s motion to dismiss class-action, or group, lawsuits
claiming economic loss linked to sudden acceleration.  “It is true that plaintiffs do not generally allege the
precise dollar value of their losses, but that level of
specificity is not required at this pleading stage,” Selna
wrote in his 63-page ruling. “It is enough that they allege a
tangible loss that can be proved or disproved upon discovery.”  Selna said he would issue a final ruling by the U.S.
Thanksgiving holiday on Nov. 25.  The economic-loss  lawsuits , combined for pretrial filings
and rulings before Selna, claim Toyota drove down the value of
vehicles by failing to fix or disclose defects that triggered
unintended acceleration. Federal suits claiming death or injury
caused by such episodes are also combined in the Santa Ana
court.  Millions Recalled  The company, based in Toyota City, Japan, has recalled more
than 8 million vehicles for repairs related to sudden,
unintended acceleration. In September 2009, the automaker
announced a recall of 3.8 million Toyota and Lexus vehicles
because of a defect that may cause floor mats to jam accelerator
pedals. The company later recalled vehicles over defects
involving the pedals themselves.  Toyota asked Selna to dismiss the car owners’ claim that
the company knew of a defect in the vehicles’ electronic
throttle control system and concealed it from consumers. The
plaintiffs failed to identify an “actual defect,” the company
said in court papers.  Selna said would let this claim go forward. “Plaintiffs’
fraudulent concealment claim pleads particular facts in support
of the defect allegations, and that is all that is required at
this stage,” he wrote in the tentative ruling.  “These rulings are only tentative and come at a stage of
the legal proceedings in which the judge has to accept that what
the plaintiffs allege are true,” said Toyota attorney Lisa
Gilford in an interview after the hearing. “We are confident
that as the facts develop in this case they will show that there
are no defects in these Toyota vehicles.”  ‘No Such Proof’  The burden “is now squarely on plaintiffs’ counsel to
prove their allegations, and Toyota is confident that no such
proof exists,”  Celeste Migliore , a company spokeswoman, said in
an e-mailed statement. The claim that Toyota’s electronic
throttle control system is defective is “wholly
unsubstantiated,” she said.  “If the judge finalizes these tentative rulings they will
be a substantial victory for the plaintiffs,” consumer lawyer
 Steve W. Berman  said after the hearing.  Toyota had also said the consumers couldn’t sue for losses
on vehicles that hadn’t experienced a sudden unintended
acceleration defect, according to Selna. “The court agrees with
plaintiffs that experiencing an SUA defect is not required for
standing,” Selna said in the ruling.  “Consumers who bought Toyotas expected these cars to be
safe,” Berman said. “After thousands of crashes and the deaths
of many people it is ludicrous for Toyota to argue that you
could have a car that has a significant chance of running away
from you but not have any legal rights until it actually runs
away from you.”  ‘Produced as Promised’  Toyota disputed the claims of economic loss at today’s
hearing. The vehicles have “produced as promised,”  Cari Dawson , a Toyota lawyer, told Selna.  “These cars have not malfunctioned, their owners have not
had to pay any money for repairs or retrofit, and they have not
suffered any loss,” she said.  Dawson argued that economic loss can’t be “speculative”
based on losses that the owners may never suffer if they don’t
sell their cars or if market conditions change and the values of
Toyotas don’t drop.  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bill Callahan  in San Diego at 
 callahan@san.rr.com ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 