-- Sarah Palin Marketing Flourishes in Flirtation With U.S. Presidential Bid
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-11-19T15:21:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/palin-s-marketing-push-flourishes-amid-presidential-flirtation.html
With three words,  Sarah Palin 
placed her marker on U.S. presidential politics while calling
attention to her second national book tour and her first
reality television show.  “I believe so,” the former Alaska governor said when
asked whether she could defeat President  Barack Obama  in 2012.  Palin’s declaration, delivered in an interview with
 Barbara Walters  of ABC News scheduled for broadcast Dec. 9,
coincides with a New York Times interview in which the
Republican Party’s 2008 vice presidential nominee said she is
considering a White House bid.  She also criticized the Federal Reserve this month, first
in a speech and again in a letter published yesterday in the
Wall Street Journal in which she questioned plans for $600
billion in monetary stimulus -- a move she termed a “dangerous
experiment.”  Palin’s media blitz comes as she embarks on promotional
trips for her book “ America by Heart ” and follows the launch
of a reality show about her life in Alaska. The program’s
premiere on Nov. 14 drew the biggest audience -- almost 5
million viewers -- for a debut on  The Learning Channel  cable
network, owned by  Discovery Communications Inc.   Her actions have intensified speculation over whether she
is actively preparing to enter the presidential race or simply
keeping her options open while raising her profile. Some
political strategists say Palin’s moves before and after the
Nov. 2 midterm elections signal someone planning to run.  Dancing With Stars  “She’s either trying to gin up votes for Bristol or she
is running for president,” said Republican consultant  John Feehery , referring to the so-far-successful run by Palin’s 20-
year-old daughter on the ABC television program “Dancing With
the Stars.”  Feehery, who advised onetime Republican House Speaker
 Dennis Hastert  of Illinois, also said that as Palin keeps
voters guessing about her political aspirations, “the mystery
helps her make money and keeps her in the news.”  He said Palin, 46, had an “uneven election night,” with
some of the candidates she endorsed winning, such as Republican
 Nikki Haley  in South Carolina’s gubernatorial race, and others
losing, including Joe Miller, the Republican U.S. Senate
candidate she backed in her home state.  Romney Leads  A Nov. 13-14 Gallup  poll  of Republicans and Republican-
leaning independents found that 16 percent backed Palin to be
the party’s presidential candidate in 2012, tied for second
with former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee . The pair trailed
former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney . He was supported by
19 percent in the survey, which had a margin of error of plus-
or-minus 4 percentage points.  A Washington Post-ABC News  poll  taken Oct. 25-28 with a 3-
percentage-point margin of error found that 67 percent of
registered voters view Palin as unqualified to be president.
Feehery said that as Palin mulls her future, she should
consider those numbers.  “If she decides she wants to run for president, that’s
something she has to reverse,” he said.  Others see Palin’s hints about a presidential run as more
about marketing than about a thirst for power.  “It’s about the money,”  Joe Scarborough , a former
Republican congressman from Florida and host of MSNBC’s
“Morning Joe,” said yesterday of Palin’s assertion that she
could beat Obama.  Stopping in Iowa  As part of her book tour, Palin has a Nov. 27 stop in
Iowa, the state where the presidential-nominating contests
start in February 2012. She was last in the state in September,
when she gave the keynote address at the  Iowa Republican
Party’s  largest annual fundraiser.  Other potential Republican presidential candidates making
regular visits to Iowa -- both to gauge support and to start
building the network it traditionally takes to win the state’s
caucuses -- include Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , former
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of Georgia, Romney and Huckabee.  Palin, the surprise pick by Republican Senator  John McCain 
of Arizona as his running mate in the 2008 presidential race,
said in the New York Times interview that she is “having that
discussion” with her family about a presidential run.  “I take her at her word that she hasn’t made any
decision,” said  David Yepsen , a former political writer at the
Des Moines Register in Iowa who is director of the  Paul Simon 
Public Policy Institute at  Southern Illinois University
Carbondale . “She really doesn’t have to for a while, and by
very publicly flirting with this, it keeps her in the
presidential buzz and it helps all her other business
dealings.”  Supporters’ Network  Yepsen said Palin would likely need to decide at least
eight months before the Iowa caucuses in order to put together
an effective get-out-the-vote operation and build a network of
supporters in other early primary states.  “She’s got some work to do in Iowa,” he said. “You
can’t just blow into Iowa and win it.”  Yepsen also said he wouldn’t be surprised to see Palin
delay running until 2016, allowing her more time to “make
money, travel the country, build her base and do a little work
on the gravitas thing.”  Some Democrats have signaled their desire for Palin to
enter the 2012 race.  David Plouffe , who managed Obama’s 2008
campaign, told reporters on Oct. 8 that his party would be
“lucky” if she ran.  Palin Acolytes  Several other prospective Republican candidates “are kind
of the acolytes of Sarah Palin,” he said. “Now maybe she’ll
be running herself. Something tells me we won’t get that
lucky.”  In an interview yesterday on CNN, Vice President  Joe Biden 
also expressed little worry about Obama beating Palin.  “I never underestimate anyone,” he said. “But I think
in that race, it would be a clear, clear choice for the country
to make, and I believe President Obama would be in very good
shape.”  A hypothetical matchup between the two showed Obama
supported by 52 percent of registered voters, compared with 44
percent for Palin, according to a CNN/Opinion Research Corp.
 survey  conducted Oct. 27-30. The survey’s margin of error was 3
percentage points.  Palin’s political action committee raised $2.5 million
between Jan. 1 and Sept. 30 and contributed $190,500 to
candidates and Republican political committees, Federal
Election Commission filings show.  ‘Palin’s Alaska’  After resigning as Alaska’s governor in July 2009 before
completing her four-year term, she became a paid commentator on
the Fox News Channel. That has given her a platform to
communicate with potential Republican primary voters.  “ Sarah Palin’s Alaska ,” the documentary-style series on
TLC, shows her exploring the state’s wilderness with her
husband and children. In the first episode, they encountered
fighting bears while fishing. Viewers also got a glimpse of the
family’s life at home, including Palin preventing daughter
Willow’s boyfriend from accompanying the 16-year-old upstairs.  Yepsen cautions that Palin’s growing celebrity status
won’t necessarily lay the groundwork for a presidential run.  “People shouldn’t make the mistake that because she can
get huge crowds, she is therefore a contender,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 