-- Pimco Favors High Yielding Bank CoCos That Bond Investors Call a Hard Sell
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2010-11-19T15:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/pimco-favors-bank-cocos-that-bond-investors-call-a-tough-sell.html
(Corrects name spelling in ninth, last paragraphs.)  Capital securities that regulators
insist banks must issue to mop up losses and prevent another
financial crisis will find buyers because of their yield,
according to  Pacific Investment Management Co .  Some investors have said contingent convertible notes, or
CoCos, won’t sell because they become equity or are written down
in a crisis, inflicting losses on holders. The support of Pimco,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, indicates demand does
exist for the securities that regulators have earmarked as a
vital part of banks’ buffers against future losses.  “Yes, they’re risky but you’re being compensated,” said
London-based  Luke Spajic , head of European credit portfolio
management at Pimco, which oversees more than $1.2 trillion
across its funds. “You’re being offered a yield that’s
remarkable.”  So-called CoCos typically aren’t included in benchmark bond
indexes and ratings firms have reservations about grading the
notes. Regulators on the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
have proposed that banks issue CoCos so bondholders are
contractually obliged to absorb losses.  Notes that become equity “aren’t really investable” for
buyers of investment-grade bonds, said  Georg Grodzki , the
London-based head of credit research at Legal & General
Investment Management, which manages $480 billion of assets. He
would consider buying securities that suffer a temporary
writedown in “certain pre-defined circumstances.”  Lloyds, Rabobank  Some pension funds and insurers aren’t allowed to buy
convertible securities under rules governing certain funds. Even
so, regulators’ efforts to avoid a new collapse of banking
systems are likely to mean increased issuance of CoCos.  UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank, and  Credit Suisse Group
AG  may have to hold capital equal to at least 19 percent of
risk-weighted assets, with as much as 9 percent made up of
CoCos, Swiss regulators have said, applying changes, or a so-
called Swiss finish, to Basel Committee rules.  UBS Chief Financial Officer  John Cryan  said this week that
his company won’t sell the securities until it has had time to
bolster its capital ratios. CoCos sold today would automatically
trigger because under the Basel Committee new rules, known as
Basel III, UBS’s capital base is still too small, he said.  While holding more capital will mean lower returns for
stockholders, credit investors will gain because earnings will
be more stable and the issuers will have less risk, Pimco’s
Spajic said.  Only two major banks have issued such CoCos. Lloyds Banking
Group Plc in London exchanged some subordinated bonds for new
enhanced capital notes that become equity if the lender’s core
Tier 1 ratio falls below 5 percent of its assets. Rabobank Groep
NV, which has the  highest ratings  and equity of 12.5 percent of
assets, sold senior notes that will be written down to a quarter
of face value if its capital ratio slips below 7 percent.  “Financials are going to become more utility-like,” said
Spajic. “They aren’t going to repeat the sins of the past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  