-- Pimco Said to Seek at Least $1 Billion for Fund to Buy Troubled Bank Loans
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2010-11-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/pimco-said-to-seek-at-least-1-billion-for-fund-to-buy-troubled-bank-loans.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s largest mutual fund, is raising at least
$1 billion for a private fund to buy troubled loans from banks
divesting assets to meet new rules, said two people briefed on
the plans.  The Pimco Bravo fund, short for Bank Recapitalization and
Value Opportunities, will acquire commercial and residential
mortgage loans and other debt, according to a prospective
investor who asked not to be named because the capital raising
is private. Pimco plans to work with a loan servicer to
renegotiate the terms of the acquired debt directly with
creditors, the client said.  Financial institutions are selling assets after the 27-
nation Basel Committee on Banking Supervision adopted standards
in September that will more the double the ratio of capital
banks must hold in relation to the amount of risk on their
balance sheets. Pimco, the Newport Beach, California, firm best
known for its fixed-income mutual funds such as those run by
 Bill Gross , has raised at least $5 billion from institutional
clients to buy distressed mortgages and bonds backed by real
estate loans since the global credit crisis began in late 2007.  “Valuation is in Pimco’s wheelhouse, and valuation is
really the main challenge to this type of investing,”  Geoff Bobroff , an independent fund consultant in East Greenwich, Rhode
Island, said in a telephone interview.  The Pimco Distressed Mortgage Fund LP, opened before the
peak of the crisis in October 2007, returned 54 percent in the
year ended Sept. 30 after losing almost a third of its value in
2008, the investor said. The Pimco Distressed Senior Credit
Opportunities Fund climbed 28 percent in the year through
September, according to the investor.  ‘Problem’ Banks  The number of banks considered “problem” lenders by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. rose even with the economic
recovery, as bad loans remained on balance sheets. The FDIC’s
list increased 7 percent in the second quarter to 829 banks.  Pimco’s institutional fund will target smaller lenders and
community banks, and won’t buy consumer debt such as credit-card
and auto loans, the investor said.  Mark Porterfield , a Pimco
spokesman, declined to comment.  “Pimco is using a very wise combination of strategies to
take advantage of dislocations in the banking system,”  Eric Petroff , director of research at consulting firm Wurts
Associates in Seattle, said in a phone interview.  Dozens of money managers have opened funds to invest in
mortgage-related credit to take advantage of cheap prices since
that market started unraveling three years ago. Most, like Pimco
Bravo, are targeted to institutional investors such as pension
funds and endowments.  Cargill, DoubleLine  An investment unit of Cargill Inc., the Minneapolis-based
food producer, said last month it raised $373 million to buy
debt assets from banks. DoubleLine Capital LP in Los Angeles,
started by former TCW Group Inc. investment chief  Jeffrey Gundlach , gathered $79 million for a fund to invest in mortgage-
related assets, according to Nov. 2 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Ken Griffin ’s Chicago-based
Citadel LLC collected $225 million for a residential-mortgage
opportunities fund, according to an August regulatory filing.  Distressed securities are mostly loans and low-rated, high-
yield bonds whose issuers are having trouble meeting interest
and principal payments. They typically sell below face value,
and investors can profit if prices rebound or the securities are
swapped for equity in a restructuring.  The instruments plunged in value two years ago, when
investors shunned all but the safest government-backed debt
after the failures of Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High-Yield
Distressed Index fell 45 percent in 2008, followed by a record
gain of 117 percent in 2009 as the markets rebounded. In the 12
months ended Sept. 30, the index gained 29 percent.  Pimco’s Expansion  Pimco, started in 1971 mainly as a U.S-oriented traditional
bond shop, has expanded into emerging markets and hedge fund-
style strategies. Under  Mohamed El-Erian , who was named chief
executive officer in late 2007, the firm has opened long-term
funds that try to minimize risks from systemic shocks and
opportunistic funds that aim to take advantage of temporary
market disruptions, such as the distressed-debt vehicles.  Last year, the firm made a push into actively managed
equities and exchange-traded funds. The firm’s Pimco EqS
Pathfinder fund, which invests in undervalued global stocks,
will also devote a portion of assets to distressed debt.  Pimco added an advisory arm in 2009 to help clients value
mortgage-related investments and other bonds. The division,
Pimco Advisory, has won assignments from the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners to help assess home-loan
investments held by insurers and the Federal Reserve, for which
it runs the Commercial Paper Funding Facility program.  PPIP Departure  Pimco, with about $1.2 trillion in assets, was a leading
contender to manage the U.S. Treasury’s Public-Private
Investment Plan before it dropped out last year, citing
“uncertainties” about the program’s design. PPIP, overseen by
eight managers including New York-based BlackRock Inc., is
intended to purchase devalued real estate assets to speed the
recovery of financial markets.  A unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE , Pimco runs the
$255.9 billion  Pimco Total Return Fund , managed by Gross. The
fund had 39 percent of assets in mortgage-related debt as of
Oct. 31, according to the fund company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 