-- Playboy Opens Club in Macau, Forecasts Asia Revenue Will Double This Year
-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 2010-11-19T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/playboy-says-asia-licensing-revenue-may-double-this-year-on-china-spending.html
Playboy Enterprises Inc. , seeking to
revive its nightclubs with bunny-suited waitresses, opens a club
in Macau today as it forecasts Asia licensing revenue will
double this year on increased spending in  China .  “Asia is the most important market” and sales in the
continent may reach almost $20 million in 2010, Chief Executive
Officer  Scott Flanders  said in an interview in Hong Kong
yesterday. The Chicago-based company may double the share of
sales it receives from China, its fastest-growing market, to 20
percent of total licensing revenue within three years, he said.  The publisher of Playboy magazine will open a 12,000
square-foot Playboy club today on the top floor of the Sands
Macao, a casino operated by  Sands China Ltd. , a unit of
billionaire  Sheldon Adelson ’s company.  Casino sales in
Macau , the only place in China where they’re legal, have surged
59 percent to $19 billion in the first 10 months of this year as
the global economic recovery boosted spending.  The club in Macau will be its second worldwide and will
feature gambling facilities, and sell merchandise including
clothes, accessories and jewelry, Flanders said.  Playboy , whose stock has more than tripled in value in the
past two years, is reviving its nightclub business. It opened
one in Las Vegas in 2007, its first since the closure of a
location in Manila in 1991.  China Stores  The company’s flagship Chicago club was shuttered in 1986
after being attacked as demeaning to women.  Shanghai’s government in 2004 rejected an application to
open a seven-story Playboy club in the city. Playboy magazine
and similar publications are still banned in mainland China.  About 300 licensed single-brand Playboy stores operate in
China, selling men’s clothing and other merchandise such as
leather goods, and women’s items are sold through department
stores and elsewhere.  Playboy  also plans to open a 30,000 square-foot mansion in
Macau’s Cotai Strip in 2012. While there are no immediate plans
for a third club in Asia, Flanders said he “hopes to have one
in Singapore,” where Sands and  Genting Bhd.  opened two casinos
this year.  The company will incorporate “local flavor” at its Macau
clubs by including Chinese wines and holding events for Chinese
festivals, Flanders said. “It’s not an importation of American
tastes, because that will be unsuccessful,” he said.  The Lunar New Year holidays next February will welcome the
Year of the Rabbit, which will be a “great opportunity” to
mark Playboy’s arrival in Macau, Flanders said. The Playboy logo
uses a rabbit’s head.  The company said in August that its  board  formed a special
committee to evaluate founder  Hugh M. Hefner ’s offer of
$123 million to acquire all the  shares  he doesn’t already own.  “The board is evaluating the offer right now,” Flanders
said. “I don’t know how long it will take, but some time next
year, if the board accepts the proposal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  