-- Pound Declines Against Euro as Irish Bailout Outlook Damps Haven Demand
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-11-19T17:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/pound-declines-against-euro-as-irish-bailout-outlook-damps-haven-demand.html
The pound fell against the euro for
the third time in the past four days as mounting speculation
that Ireland will receive financial aid damped demand for the
U.K. currency as a haven. Gilts rose as stocks declined.  Sterling had its first weekly decline against the common
currency in four weeks. Officials from the European Union and
the International Monetary Fund are in Dublin to assess Irish
banks. Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said yesterday his
government would welcome “substantial contingency capital
funding,” opening the door to loans the central bank said may
be worth “tens of billions” of euros.  “The market is starting to feel that Ireland is probably a
done deal, although technically it’s not at all,” said  Jane Foley , a senior currency strategist at Rabobank International in
London. “The euro is a little bit better bid, so sterling is
therefore on the back foot relative to that.”  The pound depreciated 0.6 percent to 85.52 pence per euro
at 4:44 p.m. in London, leaving it 0.7 percent weaker since Nov.
12. The U.K. currency fell 0.5 percent to $1.5961, set for its
second straight weekly drop.  The pound has declined 3.3 percent against a basket of its
developed-country peers this year, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, making it the third-
worst-performing currency, after the euro and Norwegian krone.  Accord ‘Very Likely’  Irish Defense Minister  Tony Killeen  said some aid could be
drawn down “quickly” after any loan agreement with the
European Union and the International Monetary Fund is agreed.
Speaking on RTE radio in Dublin today, he said Ireland is taking
the only option available and it’s “very likely” the country
will reach an accord.  Sterling also depreciated as the People’s Bank of China
ordered banks to set aside larger reserves for the second time
in two weeks, aiming to limit inflation and asset-bubble risks.  The yield on the 10-year gilt slipped two basis points to
3.38 percent, with the two-year note yield four basis points
lower at 1.08 percent. The FTSE 100 Index of stocks declined 0.6
percent, a weekly drop.  Britain’s Treasury sold 3 billion pounds of 28, 91 and 182-
day bills today, according to the U.K. Debt Management Office.  Gilts have returned 6.3 percent this year, compared with a
6.8 percent gain for German bonds and a 7.3 percent increase for
U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 