-- Investors With `Nowhere to Go' Lured by Private-Placement Yield
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2010-11-19T19:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/private-placements-luring-unsophisticated-investors-with-nowhere-to-go-.html
Tracy Nye, a 50-year-old restaurant
owner, said he was forced out of early retirement last year
after losing $1.5 million on privately placed investments that
were largely unregulated.  The Boise, Idaho, resident said his aim was to keep his
retirement nest egg “not only safe, but safe from inflation.”
He put $1.1 million into  Medical Capital Holdings Inc.  and
$400,000 into an affiliate of Provident Royalties LLC. In July
2009, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued the firms
for fraud, and most of the investments were wiped out.  Private placements were originally intended for
institutional investors and sophisticated individuals. The SEC
hasn’t changed most of its net-worth requirements for private
placements since 1982, which means they’re being sold to
investors, especially retirees, even though they may not be
financially savvy enough to understand the risks involved, said
Jennifer Johnson, a law professor at Lewis & Clark Law School in
Portland, Oregon.  More investors like Nye are lured by private placements,
which are loosely regulated equity or debt securities, because
they may offer higher yields than traditional stocks or bonds at
a time when the Federal Reserve has pushed  interest rates  to
near zero. The securities are issued by companies looking to
raise money without going through a public offering.  “There’s nowhere to go, so even very conservative
investors are more amenable to the idea of taking greater risk
because they feel like they can finally get a payoff,” said
 Denise Voigt Crawford , former president of the Washington-based
 North American Securities Administrators Association , which
represents state regulators.  Rule 506  Closely held companies, which aren’t subject to the SEC’s
periodic reporting requirements, generally offer private
placements to retail investors through Rule 506 of the SEC’s
Regulation D, Johnson of Lewis & Clark said. Private placements
offered under  Rule 506  are exempt from federal and state
securities-registration requirements.  The securities can be sold to accredited individual
investors, who must have a net worth of $1 million or $200,000
in annual income. Public companies may also use Rule 506,
generally to offer debt securities to institutional investors,
Johnson said.  ‘Off the Radar’  Private placements are largely “off the radar screen”
since states can’t review offerings under Rule 506 before
they’re marketed to investors and the SEC generally doesn’t
review them, according to Manning Warren, a law professor at the
University of Louisville’s Brandeis School of Law in Kentucky.  “The information investors often get is 99 percent
positive, so based on trust they get taken in and end up losing
money they’ve saved for retirement,” said Warren. “At best
they don’t get enough disclosure to understand the risks
involved, and at worst, these investments turn out to be totally
bogus.”  Investors lost more than $1 billion by purchasing private-
placement securities issued by Tustin, California-based Medical
Capital, which financed medical receivables, and about $485
million from Dallas-based  Provident Royalties , an oil and gas
investment firm, according to the SEC’s estimates. The SEC said
the firms made misrepresentations and misappropriated money.
Both companies are in receivership and the cases are pending.  More Complaints  Rule 506 requires filing of offering notices with the SEC,
which the agency reviews when questions are raised, said  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC in Washington. These notices
don’t describe the terms or provide information about the
issuer’s financial condition, he said. About 20,000 private-
placement notifications are filed with the SEC annually, said
Nester.  In 2008, companies planned to issue about $609 billion of
private placement-related securities, according to a March 2009
 report  by the SEC’s Office of the Inspector General. Almost
60,000 companies a year receive $25 billion in funding from
individual investors, said Jay Turo, chief executive officer of
Los Angeles-based Growthink Securities, which helps private
companies raise capital from individuals and institutions.  The number of complaints about private placements to the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which oversees brokers
and their firms, increased 35 percent this year and more than 50
percent in 2009, the independent regulator said.  Nancy Condon , a
spokeswoman for Finra in Washington, declined to give specific
numbers of complaints.  ‘Targeting the Elderly’  States such as Alabama and Texas have anecdotally seen an
increase in complaints and enforcement cases involving private
placements, according to state securities regulators. In
 Kentucky , where there had been two investigations since 1997
involving private placements sold by registered brokers, there
were 10 this year, said Colleen Keefe, chief of enforcement for
Kentucky’s securities division.  In Florida, there were 227 complaints involving private
placements in 2009 compared with 197 in 2008, said Amy
Alexander, a spokeswoman for the Florida office of financial
regulation. The New York Attorney General’s office has received
complaints and they’re being reviewed, said  Richard Bamberger , a
spokesman, who declined to give specific numbers.  “Issuers are targeting the elderly because they’re the
ones with retirement accounts and equity in their homes,” said
Michael Hines, Utah’s director of enforcement.  Accredited Investors  Early drafts of the financial-overhaul bill enacted by
Congress in July included a provision that would have forced the
SEC to review private-placement filings within 120 days. Under
the stipulation, later dropped, state regulators could have done
their own review if the SEC failed to. The bill does require the
SEC to adopt rules by July to prohibit felons and brokers with
securities violations from selling them.  The final version of the bill also contains a clause
directing the SEC to exclude primary residences from the net
worth calculation and directs the agency and the Government
Accountability Office to study the accredited investor
standards.  While removing homes from the wealth calculation will
reduce the number of accredited investors, there isn’t enough
oversight by regulators to prevent unsophisticated retail buyers
from getting burned by private placements, said Johnson, the law
professor.  Selling Smoothies  Finra  has a task force investigating more than a dozen
brokerages involved with “problematic” private placements,
said  James Shorris , Finra’s acting enforcement director. Shorris
declined to name the firms being investigated. Finra also issued
a  notice  in April reminding brokers of their obligations to
conduct due diligence on private placements and ensure that the
investments are suitable for their clients.  “We’re very concerned about these offerings following
consumer complaints brought to our attention,” Shorris said.  Brokers are taking information at face value from the
issuers without doing enough research on their own, according to
Carrie Wisniewski, a former Finra examiner, who consults with
about 150 broker-dealer firms at Lilburn, Georgia-based B/D
Compliance Associates Inc. Smaller, regional firms are most
likely to offer private placements to retail investors,
Wisniewski said.  Nye, the Idaho investor, said he’s now operating a
restaurant that sells smoothies and sandwiches instead of
enjoying his early retirement. Brokers at Jackson McClenny
Investments, the firm that sold him Medical Capital and Shale
Royalties, the affiliate of Provident Royalties, were clear
about the illiquidity of the investments, without emphasizing
the risks involved, Nye said. The phone number listed for
Jackson McClenny has been disconnected and the firm doesn’t
appear in Finra’s BrokerCheck.  $25,000 Minimum  Investors are attracted to private placements because of
the advertised high yields as well as the lack of correlation
with the  stock market , said Crawford of the North American
Securities Administrators Association. Medical Capital and Shale
each promised yields as high as 18 percent, Nye said. Private
placements related to real estate and oil and gas are popular,
and those focused on green energy are becoming more common, said
Crawford.  The average retail investment in a private placement for
clients of dually registered independent broker-dealer and
investment advisory firm Investors Capital Corp., based in
Lynnfield, Massachusetts, is $25,000, and the offerings
generally provide as much as a 6 percent yield with a 10-year
investment horizon, said Danielle Place, senior new business
principal for the firm.  Illiquid Investments  One private placement currently being offered by Investors
Capital is Reef Oil & Gas Income Fund, an oil and gas limited
partnership in North Dallas, Texas. It has a minimum investment
of $25,000, provides dividends to investors and has a maximum
offering of $30 million. Jeff Gwynn, marketing communications
director for Reef, declined to comment citing Finra’s rules.  Private placements are usually illiquid since they can’t be
easily resold and often lack transparency, which means investors
may not have enough information about the issuer and the track
record of its management, said Warren, the law professor.  Even though they’re exempt from registration requirements
and can choose what to disclose in their private placement
memoranda, issuers of private placements are still subject to
the antifraud provisions of federal and state securities laws
that prohibit material misrepresentations or omissions, said
Lewis & Clark’s Johnson.  The majority of private placements aren’t fraudulent and
can be lucrative for appropriate investors who understand the
risks involved, according to Turo of Growthink.  Investors should know that a promise of a high fixed payout
on investments is a red flag, said Finra’s  John Gannon , a senior
vice president of investor education.  Paying Awards  Even if Finra does order brokerage firms to pay awards to
investors, they still may never see the money because the
brokers may be inadequately insured or capitalized to compensate
everyone involved, said Richard Nervig, an attorney in
Fallbrook, California, who represents investors in securities
litigation.  One of Nervig’s clients, Iris Berger, won a $355,000 award
through Finra’s dispute resolution from Okoboji Financial
Services Inc. in Okoboji, Iowa, for selling her securities in
Shale. Since Okoboji is out of business, Nervig said he’d be
“very surprised,” if Berger, 83, ever receives her money.
Okoboji’s  Finra registration  was terminated, according to a Nov.
4 letter received by Nervig from Finra.  “We knew there was going to be a fire in the forest with
these things,” said  Joe Borg , director of the Alabama state
securities commission. “But we had to watch them light the
match and couldn’t do a damn thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Leondis  in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 