-- Rangel Is First U.S. House Member to Face Ethics Sanctions Since 2002
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-11-19T15:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/rangel-is-first-u-s-house-lawmaker-facing-possible-sanctions-since-2002.html
The U.S. House is being asked to
censure Democratic Representative  Charles Rangel  of New York for
violating ethics rules, the first time the chamber will sit in
 judgment  of a member in eight years.  The House ethics  committee  yesterday recommended the
penalty for Rangel, the former chairman of the tax-writing Ways
and Means Committee. The full House will take up the matter
after the Nov. 25 Thanksgiving holiday.  After hearing the recommendation, Rangel, 80, asked the
ethics panel to make clear “that any action taken by me was not
with the intention to bring any disgrace on the House or to
enrich myself personally, or considered by counsel to be
corrupt.” He declined to comment after the proceedings.  Rangel would be the first lawmaker sanctioned by the full
House since Ohio Democrat  Jim Traficant  was expelled in 2002
following his conviction in criminal court of taking bribes and
kickbacks. The last House members censured were Representatives
 Gerry Studds , a Massachusetts Democrat, and  Daniel Crane , an
Illinois Republican, in 1983 for sexual misconduct with House
pages.  An eight-member subcommittee on Nov. 16 found that Rangel
committed 11 violations of House rules by using congressional
stationery and staff to seek donations for an  academic center 
named for him at City College of New York, by filing erroneous
financial-disclosure statements, failing to pay taxes for 17
years on rental income, and by using a rent-controlled apartment
as a campaign office.  ‘Cumulative Nature’  Under the proposed penalty, Rangel would appear on the
floor of the House while the resolution of censure is read. The
committee said the proposed penalty reflected the “cumulative
nature of the violations and not any direct personal financial
gain.” It is the culmination of a two-year investigation of the
lawmaker.  The ethics committee, equally split between Democrats and
Republicans, recommended censure on a 9-1 vote. Committee
counsel Blair Chisam recommended censure.  The committee also instructed Rangel to pay back taxes on
rental income he earned from a villa in the Dominican Republic.  While the announcement by committee Chairwoman  Zoe Lofgren ,
a California Democrat, didn’t specify how each lawmaker voted,
Representative  G.K. Butterfield , a North Carolina Democrat, said
earlier that he wouldn’t support censuring Rangel.  “The facts of this case do not warrant a censure,”
Butterfield said before the committee met in secret to decide on
punishment.  ‘Wasn’t Hiding Anything’  “I was not trying to criminally hide anything from the IRS
or the Congress,” Rangel told the committee. “I wasn’t hiding
anything; it just wasn’t properly recorded.”  In paying his income taxes, “I paid whatever the
accountant told me to pay,” he said.  A censure would be a blemish on Rangel’s 40-year record in
the House, though it wouldn’t keep him from continuing to serve.  “Public office is a public trust,” Chisam said in
recommending censure. Rangel “violated that trust.”  Rangel, elected Nov. 2 to a 21st House term, stepped aside
as chairman of the Ways and Means Committee in March after the
ethics panel said he broke House rules by accepting corporate-
sponsored travel.  He was accompanied to yesterday’s meeting by fellow
Democratic Representative  John Lewis  of Georgia, who told the
committee Rangel was a “patriotic American” and a “good and
decent man.”  ‘Little Regard’  Ethics committee member  Jo Bonner , an Alabama Republican,
said Rangel “once wielded one of the most powerful gavels in
town” and yet showed “so little regard and respect” for the
House or his constituents.  Rangel apologized for his actions.  “There is no excuse for my acts of omission and failures
to abide by the rules of Congress,” he said in a statement
yesterday. “I have made many mistakes that I will forever
regret, and I apologize for them.”  Rangel walked out of the subcommittee’s Nov. 15 hearing on
his case after the panel rejected his request for a delay to
allow him to hire a new lawyer. He attended yesterday’s meeting
without a lawyer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 