-- Real Bonds Post Biggest Loss Since May on Inflation Concern: Brazil Credit
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2010-11-19T21:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/real-bonds-post-biggest-loss-since-may-on-inflation-concern-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian  real bonds  are posting the
biggest monthly loss since May as accelerating  inflation  sparks
speculation the central bank will be forced to raise interest
rates after President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  takes office.  The 1.5 percent  decline  in Brazil’s local-currency debt
compares with an  average  loss of 1.4 percent for developing-
nation debt in the month ended yesterday, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. indexes.  Consumer prices  in Latin America’s biggest economy climbed
more than forecast in October, driving annual inflation to a
five-month high of 5.2 percent. Yields on real bonds due in 2021
surged 93 basis points, or 0.93 percentage point, in the past
month as Rousseff said she’ll boost payouts to the poor and may
raise the minimum wage more than planned. Mexican peso bond
yields rose 43 basis points in the same period.  “Inflation expectations are ticking higher and it seems
like the central bank is not going to do anything about it,”
said  Edwin Gutierrez , who helps manage $6 billion in emerging-
market debt at Aberdeen Management Plc in London.  Yields on interest-rate futures due in January 2012 surged
34 basis points in the past month to 11.66 percent, signaling
traders expect the central bank will raise the benchmark rate to
about 12.5 percent by the end of next year from 10.75 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Prices  as measured by the benchmark IPCA index rose 0.75
percent in October, fueled by food costs, the national
statistics agency said Nov. 9. The increase was higher than the
median forecast of 0.67 percent among 41 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg and surpassed all but one estimate.  Inflation Outlook  Inflation  will quicken to 5.48 percent by year-end, the
highest rate since July 2010, according to a central bank survey
of economists released Nov. 16. A week earlier, the median
forecast was 5.31 percent.  Policy makers are committed to achieving their inflation
target of 4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage points,
Central Bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said in an interview
with Globo News television on Oct. 17.  The central bank said in a statement it doesn’t comment on
market moves or speculation.  Rousseff, President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s former
cabinet chief and handpicked successor, told reporters Nov. 3
that she’s considering raising the monthly minimum wage to more
than 700 reais ($409) by 2014 from 510 reais today. The increase
is more than the 5.5 percent proposed in the government’s 2011
budget. Lula increased spending 27 percent in the first nine
months of this year.  ‘Policy Direction’  “There’s uncertainty about policy direction moving forward
as the leadership of the economic team and the central bank
members is unknown and the fact that inflation is a little
higher,” said  Paul Biszko , an emerging-markets strategist at
RBC Capital Markets in Toronto.  Lula’s tripling of a tax on foreigners’ fixed-income
purchases to 6 percent on Oct. 19 to slow the rally in the real
is also reducing demand for Brazil’s bonds, said  Kathy Jones , an
emerging-markets bond strategist at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney,
which manages $1.6 trillion.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in Brasilia
on Oct. 25 that the tax increase was working to curb investment
in the debt market and stem the real’s gains.  “At 2 percent it wasn’t so bad, but at 6 percent it’s not
making sense to take the currency risk,” said New York-based
Jones. “We’re a little more cautious now then we have been. We
reached the level of fair value.”  The real fell 0.2 percent to 1.7156 per dollar by 4:45 p.m.
New York time.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 175 basis
points, according to JPMorgan.  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell two basis points
to 108, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-default swaps
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on interest-rate futures due in January 2012 rose 2
basis points today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation will slow in the first three months of next year,
allowing the central bank to lower interest rates, said  Aloisio Teles , co-head of emerging-market trading at Nomura Securities
International Inc. in New York.  “They were expecting these levels, so it’s not new and by
next year inflation will go down,” Teles said. “It’s pretty
much noise and speculation about the new government and it
generates great opportunity in Brazil.”  ‘Cut in 2011’  Rousseff’s efforts to restrain public spending will allow
the central bank to cut the benchmark interest rate next year,
Mantega said on Nov. 13.  “I believe the central bank can cut in 2011,” Mantega
said in an interview as he was leaving Seoul after the Group of
20 Summit. “We are going to create conditions to open a space
for the interest rate to fall. How much it will fall, I don’t
know, but I can assure you it will fall.”  Mantega has accepted Rousseff’s invitation to remain in his
position, a person familiar with the decision said yesterday.  Rousseff’s transition team won’t comment on speculation and
the president will announce her cabinet picks at the appropriate
time, said one of her press officers who cannot be identified
because of internal policy.  The Finance Ministry didn’t respond to a telephone call and
an e-mail seeking comment.  ‘Lot of Pressure’  Policy makers boosted the  benchmark rate  by 200 basis
points from a record low of 8.75 percent in April to cool the
economy’s fastest expansion in two decades.  The economy will expand 7.6 percent this year after
shrinking 0.2 percent in 2009, according to the Nov. 12 central
bank survey of about 100 economists.  “There’s a lot of pressure right now and the inflation
concern and lack of demand will push yields higher,” said
 Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin America fixed-income research at
IDEAglobal in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  