-- Treasury 30-Year Securities Advance After Federal Reserve Purchases Assets
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-11-19T21:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/treasury-30-year-securities-advance-before-federal-reserve-bond-purchases.html
Treasury 30-year bonds gained for
the first time in four weeks, after the Federal Reserve acquired
$24 million of the securities auctioned last week as part of an
asset-purchase program aimed at stimulating growth.  Thirty-year bonds outperformed 10-year securities for the
second week as the Fed acquired $2.2 billion of debt maturing
from August 2028 to November 2040, the first purchases of
longer-dated Treasuries in the round of quantitative easing that
began Nov. 12. The U.S.  unemployment rate  of 9.6 percent is
“high and, given the slow pace of economic growth, likely to
remain so for some time,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in
Frankfurt today.  “The 30-year bond is doing well because of the buyback,”
said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury
trading at Wunderlich Securities in New York. “Bernanke was
emphatic in stating his positions that we are going to do QE2
and we’re going to do what’s best. It alleviated some of the
spressure on the Treasury market.”  Thirty-year  yields  fell four basis points to 4.24 percent
at 4:37 p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The
4.25 percent security due in November 2040 rose 21/32, or $6.56
per $1,000 face amount, to 100 4/32.  Note Path  Ten-year note yields fell two basis points to 2.87 percent.
They climbed to 2.96 percent on Nov. 16, the highest in three
months.  The “next stop” for 10-year yields is the 3.02 percent to
3.06 percent support zone,  Bill O’Donnell , U.S. government bond
strategist in Stamford, Connecticut, at Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc’s RBS Securities unit, wrote in a note to clients. “Higher
rates still lie ahead. The sell-off is not yet over.”  The Fed today purchased $24 million, or 1.5 percent, of the
$16 billion auction of 30-year bonds sold on Nov. 10.  At auction the 30-year bonds drew an interest rate of 4.32
percent, the highest at any auction of the securities since May.
The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total
bids with the amount of securities offered, was 2.31, the lowest
since November 2009.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said it’s too
early to assume the central bank will complete the $600 billion
in Treasury purchases authorized by policy makers this month.  ‘Premature to Presume’  “It’s premature to presume the answer to that one way or
another,” Plosser said yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Washington. “A lot will depend on how the data
begin to unfold over the next several months as to whether or
not we think it’s necessary, whether the efficacy of the policy
is doing what we thought it would do, whether we continue to
think it’s necessary.”  In a speech in Frankfurt, Bernanke said the best way to
underpin the dollar and support the global recovery “is through
policies that lead to a resumption of robust growth in a context
of price stability in the United States.” Countries that
undervalue their currencies may eventually inhibit growth around
the world and risk financial instability at home, he said.  The Fed chief is confronting criticism from officials in
countries including China and Brazil who say the Nov. 3 decision
to buy $600 billion in Treasury securities has weakened the
dollar and contributed to flows of capital to emerging markets.  QE2 Indications  “He’s trying to give the indication he’ll be sticking with
QE2 for quite a while,” said  Theodore Ake , head of Treasury
trading at Societe Generale in New York. “People seem to be
believe it, which gives us these rallies, but there are still
plenty of sellers out there. It will remain volatile.”  U.S. consumer prices excluding food and fuel increased by
0.6 percent in October from a year earlier, the smallest gain
since records began in 1958, the Labor Department said Nov. 17.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the securities, was at 2.13
percentage points today. It was as high as 2.49 percentage
points in January and has averaged 2.08 percentage points during
the past 12 months.  The Treasury will sell $35 billion of two-year notes, $35
billion in five-year debt and $29 billion of seven-year
securities during three days starting Nov. 22, matching results
of a Bloomberg News survey of primary dealers.  The $99 billion total is unchanged from the amount of the
October sales of the securities. President  Barack Obama  has
increased U.S. marketable  debt  to a record $8.54 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net 
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  