-- Treasury Notes Head for Second Weekly Loss on Fed's Efforts to Spur Growth
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-11-19T01:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/treasury-notes-head-for-second-weekly-loss-on-fed-s-efforts-to-spur-growth.html
Treasury 10-year notes headed for a
second weekly loss as some investors said Federal Reserve
efforts to spur economic growth and inflation will be successful.  The central bank is  scheduled  to buy $1.5 billion to $2.5
billion of government debt maturing from August 2028 to November
2040 today as part of its plan to pump money into the U.S.
economy to fuel the recovery. The Fed said earlier this month it
plans to purchase $600 billion of Treasuries through June.  “It should work in the long run,” said  Hideo Shimomura ,
who helps oversee the equivalent of $61.4 billion in Tokyo as
chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a
unit of Japan’s biggest publicly traded bank. “Inflation
expectations are rising. Treasuries are quite vulnerable.”  Ten-year notes  yielded  2.90 percent as of 10:12 a.m. in
Tokyo, according to BGCantor Market Data. The 2.625 percent
security due in November 2020 traded at a price 97 5/8.  Two-year yields, which tend to track what the Fed does with
its target for overnight loans between banks, were little
changed this week at 0.49 percent.  Treasury notes fell yesterday as stock gains sapped demand
for the safest assets and reports showed manufacturing in the
Philadelphia area expanded at the fastest pace this year and
leading economic indicators rose for a fourth month.  Getting Better  “Things are getting a bit better,” said  Thomas Roth ,
senior Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. “It put pressure on the market.”  The Fed Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic  index 
jumped to 22.5 in November from 1 the previous month. The New
York-based Conference Board’s index of U.S. leading indicators
rose 0.5 percent in October.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index climbed 1.5 percent.  Ireland said it may ask for a European bailout. The
country’s central bank governor,  Patrick Honohan , said he
expects the country to tap a loan from the European Union and
International Monetary Fund worth “tens of billions.”  The country may pay an interest rate close to 5 percent,
Honohan said in an interview with the state broadcaster RTE.  “If these talks reach a successful outcome, the flight-to-
quality appeal of U.S. government securities obviously loses
some of its luster,”  Kevin Giddis , president of fixed-income
capital markets at the brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc. in
Memphis, Tennessee, wrote in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 