-- Treasuries Advance as Bernanke Says Job Losses Threaten Economic Recovery
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-11-19T11:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/treasuries-advance-as-bernanke-says-job-losses-threaten-economic-recovery.html
Treasuries rose after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that unemployment and
disinflation are a threat to the recovery, fueling speculation
the central bank won’t scale back its asset-purchase program.  Thirty-year notes outperformed 10-year securities for the
second week. The U.S.  unemployment rate  of 9.6 percent is “high
and, given the slow pace of economic growth, likely to remain so
for some time,” Bernanke said in Frankfurt today. Treasuries
stayed higher after China said it will raise the reserve ratio
requirement for the nation’s banks by 50 basis points.  “They’ve been shoring up support for their program and
been busy explaining why it’s necessary,” said  Glenn Marci , a
fixed-income strategist at DZ Bank AG in Frankfurt. “We’ve seen
some good data but we’ll need a more sustained recovery to have
a negative impact on Treasuries.”  Ten-year  yields  dropped two basis points to 2.88 percent as
of 6:23 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The
2.625 percent security due in November 2020 rose 4/32, or $1.25
per $1,000 face amount, to 97 24/32.  Yields have increased nine basis points this week. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point. The extra yield, or spread,
investors demand to hold 30-year notes instead of those due in
10 years was 139 basis points, from 150 basis points last week.  The Fed released the text of Bernanke’s speech before he
spoke at a European Central Bank conference on monetary policy.  Inflation Slows  U.S. consumer prices excluding food and fuel increased by
0.6 percent in October from a year earlier, the smallest gain
since records began in 1958, the Labor Department said Nov. 17.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the securities, was at 2.12
percentage points today. It was as high as 2.49 percentage
points in January and has averaged 2.08 percentage points over
the past 12 months.  The Fed said earlier this month it intends to purchase $600
billion of Treasuries through June, a policy known as
quantitative easing.  The central bank is  scheduled  to buy $1.5 billion to $2.5
billion of government debt maturing from August 2028 to November
2040 today as part of its plan.  Treasury bears are betting gains will be limited as the
bond buying program fuels inflation and pushes yields higher.  Successful Stimulus  Paul McCulley  at Pacific Investment Management Co., which
runs the world’s largest bond fund, said rising long-term
Treasury yields indicate investors are betting the central bank
will be successful in spurring the economy.  Ten-year rates climbed to 2.96 percent on Nov. 16, the
highest in three months.  The  difference  between two- and 10-year yields widened to
2.45 percentage points that day from 2010’s low of 1.94
percentage points in August. The five-year average is 1.30
percentage points.  Two-year rates tend to track the Fed’s target for overnight
lending because of their shorter maturity. Yields on longer-term
bonds are more influenced by inflation and by the size of the
government’s debt.  “The marketplace is betting that QE, and more broadly
speaking an accommodative monetary policy, will be successful in
generating higher nominal growth,” McCulley said yesterday on
Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays .  ‘Bull Market Over’  “The grand super secular bull market is essentially
over,” said McCulley, a portfolio manager for Pimco, which is
based in Newport Beach, California. Ten-year yields have fallen
from almost 16 percent in 1981.  China ordered banks to increase the reserves they set aside
for the fifth time this year, draining cash from the financial
system to limit inflation and asset-bubble risks. The ratio will
increase starting Nov. 29, the central bank said on its website
today. The aim is to step up liquidity management and
“appropriately control” credit and loans, it said.  In an investor survey by Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 40
percent of respondents expected the 10-year yield to be between
2.5 percent and 2.75 percent at year-end.  Most of the rest expected the figure to be more than 2.75
percent, according to Citigroup, which is one of the 18 primary
dealers required to bid at the government’s debt sales.  “Treasuries are quite vulnerable,” said  Hideo Shimomura ,
who helps oversee the equivalent of $59.8 billion in Tokyo as
chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a
unit of Japan’s biggest publicly traded bank. Fed efforts to
spur growth “should work in the long run,” he said.  Ten-Year Rates  Ten-year rates will rise to 3.25 percent by the end of the
year, Shimomura said, revising his forecast from a month ago of
1.75 percent.  The increase in yields creates an opportunity to buy
Treasuries, especially short-term maturities,  Jim Caron , head of
global interest-rate strategy at Morgan Stanley in New York,
wrote in a report yesterday.  “We still expect a long, slow economic recovery,” wrote
Caron at the bank, another primary dealer. “We focus on front-
end purchases because we feel most strongly that the Fed will
remain on hold for an extended period.”  Two-year notes  yield  25 basis points more than the upper
end of the Fed’s target range for overnight loans between banks.
The spread widened to 29 basis points on Nov. 15, the most in
two months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  