-- Ex-Liverpool Owner George Gillett Sued for $117 Million Over Personal Loan
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-19T22:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/redskins-owner-devine-sues-gillett-for-117-million-from-liverpool-debt.html
Former Liverpool Football Club co-
owner  George Gillett  was sued for $117 million over a personal
loan he used to invest in the Premier League soccer club.  Mill Financial, based in Springfield, Virginia, alleged
that Gillett and 12 of his companies are liable under guarantees
made when the firm extended a $70 million term loan to them in
January 2008, according to a complaint filed yesterday in New
York state court in Manhattan. The rate of interest on the loan
was 19 percent, according to the court filing.  Tom Hicks , former owner of the Texas Rangers baseball team,
and Gillett failed to prevent the 300 million pound ($480
million) forced sale of Liverpool to Boston Red Sox owner  John W. Henry ’s New England Sports Ventures. The sale led to Hicks
and Gillett losing 140 million pounds, Liverpool Chairman  Martin Broughton  said.  The New York lawsuit “arises from the defendants’ failure
to honor their obligations pursuant to the unlimited,
unconditional, and continuing personal guaranties which they
executed in favor of Mill Financial,” according to the court
filing.  Gillett has declined to comment publicly on his
relationship with Mill Financial. He didn’t respond to a
voicemail seeking comment.  In its complaint, Mill said the loan agreement was
“amended several times” and the final date for full repayment
was Aug. 13. By July 15, the time of the last extension, Gillett
owed $89.8 million. Extra fees and legal expenses mean the
amount now owed is $117.2 million, Mill said.  Lawsuits  In his guaranties, Gillett “waived every defense, cause of
action, counterclaim or setoff which the guarantor may now have
or hereafter have to any action by (plaintiff) in enforcing this
guaranty except the defense of discharge by payment in full,”
Mill said in court papers.  While Gillett repaid $431,081 on Sept. 9, “this amount was
not sufficient to cure the default,” according to the filing.  Gillett’s ownership of Liverpool has led to several
lawsuits. He and Hicks lost two court challenges in London’s
High Court prior to the Oct. 15 sale to Henry’s group. The sale
came after the former owners tried to stop the deal by gaining a
temporary restraining order from a Dallas court.  Mill had been in talks with Liverpool’s board and its
bankers, Royal Bank of Scotland Plc and Wells Fargo & Co., about
buying the 18-time English soccer champion. The sale was forced
after Hicks and Gillett failed to pay back 237 million pounds to
the banks when the debt matured.  Hicks has claimed the sale was an “epic swindle.”  The case is Mill Financial LLC v. Gillett, 10-652055, New
York State Supreme Court in Manhattan (New York County).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 