-- Reid, Pelosi Plan Votes on Extending Bush-Era Income Tax Cuts
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-11-19T18:50:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/reid-pelosi-plan-votes-on-extending-bush-era-income-tax-cuts.html
Democratic leaders in Congress said
they would vote on extending some or all of the 2001 and 2003
income tax cuts with just weeks to go before their scheduled
expiration, even as a deal remained elusive on an approach that
Congress could pass.  House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, said
yesterday she plans to schedule a vote in early December on
legislation that would retain lower tax rates and increased
credits that apply only to the first $250,000 of a married
couple’s gross income or $200,000 of a single person’s.  “That is the plan,” she said.  House Republicans would do everything they can to block
the Democratic bill, said  John Boehner , the House minority
leader who is expected to become the speaker in January.  In the Senate, Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said he wants to
schedule votes on that measure and on a Republican proposal
that would also extend tax cuts that benefit taxpayers with
higher incomes. Democrats support the expiration of tax cuts
that benefit couples who earn more than $250,000 a year and
individuals with an annual income over $200,000; Republicans
want a permanent extension of all the tax cuts, including those
for the highest earners.  ‘Fixate’ on Middle Class  “We have to make sure that we do everything in our power
to fixate on these tax cuts for the middle class,” Reid, of
Nevada, said after Senate Democrats discussed the matter in
private for several hours yesterday.  Reid didn’t say when such votes might be held. The tax
cuts expire Dec. 31.  Pelosi plans to take up President  Barack Obama ’s plan to
extend the cuts only for middle-income taxpayers when the House
returns from its Thanksgiving recess. The president plans a
Nov. 30 White House meeting with congressional leaders of both
parties.  Because the Democrats’ bill wouldn’t extend all of the tax
reductions, Republicans call it a tax increase and argue that
it would hurt businesses whose owners report their profits on
their individual tax returns.  ‘Job-Killing’  “We will oppose their job-killing tax hike and do
everything we can to stop it,” Boehner, of Ohio, said in a
statement today. “Republicans made a pledge to America to
permanently stop all of the tax hikes scheduled for Jan. 1, and
that’s what we’re going to fight for.”  Although Republicans are in the minority in the House,
they would have the power to block a move by Democrats that
would try to advance the bill under a procedure that requires a
two-thirds majority. Democrats may use such a maneuver because
it would prevent Republicans from offering an alternative
proposal for a vote.  Unless Congress acts, marginal income tax rates will rise
across the board, tax credits that benefit families will be
slashed, and rates on capital gains and dividends will
increase. In addition, a federal tax on estates worth more than
$1 million will be resurrected after expiring for 2010.  Expiration of all of the tax cuts enacted in President
 George W. Bush ’s administration would add $2,600 annually to
the tax burden of a median-income family earning about $70,000
a year, according to  Clint Stretch , managing principal at the
consulting firm Deloitte Tax LLP in Washington.  $5 Trillion Cost  Extending the tax cuts permanently would cost the
government $5 trillion in revenue and interest on the debt over
the next decade, the Congressional Research Service reported
last month.  House Majority Whip  James Clyburn  said he strongly
supports extending the tax cuts for most taxpayers, though he
doesn’t view action in December as essential.  “Some people would say that if it doesn’t get solved,
then you’ve got a big deficit reduction taking place, which is
also a good thing,” the South Carolina Democrat said in an
interview on C-SPAN’s “Newsmakers” scheduled to air on Nov
21. “So there is a bright side to this no matter what you
do.”  Failure to extend all the tax cuts would subtract 1
percentage point from growth in the gross domestic product,
according to an estimate released yesterday by Barclays
Capital, reducing projected growth in 2011 from 2.8 percent to
1.8 percent, with “sharply lower growth” in the first
quarter.  The 2.8 percent growth estimate assumes the cuts for
higher-income taxpayers would expire. If they are extended, the
Barclay’s estimate is for 3 percent GDP growth in 20l1.  Test for Parties  Votes in the Senate on the competing proposals would test
whether either party has the 60 votes needed to overcome
procedural hurdles. Neither plan is likely to garner that many
votes and get through the Senate, based on comments from
senators yesterday.  “That won’t stop people from getting a tax hike,” said
 Don Stewart , a spokesman for Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky.  A rejection of both measures would give Senate leaders a
clearer picture of where their members stand as they begin
negotiations on compromise plans.  That’s important because even failed votes can be a
precursor to success, California Democrat  Barbara Boxer  said
earlier this week.  “At some point, there’s going to be that sensible
center,” she said.  Several Senate Democrats emerged from the meeting
yesterday saying they hadn’t reached a consensus on a strategy
for extending any or all of the Bush-era tax cuts.  “It’s probably going to remain fluid until 15 minutes
before there is an agreement,” said Senator  Ron Wyden  of
Oregon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Richard Rubin  in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 