-- Renault Seeks Early-Retirement Accord From Unions as Output Decline Looms
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-11-19T15:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/renault-seeks-early-retirement-accord-from-unions-as-output-decline-looms.html
Renault SA , France’s second-biggest
carmaker, said it’s seeking an early-retirement agreement with
unions in response to declining domestic production.  The company is holding talks under French labor laws that
allow factory workers to seek early retirement, said  Caroline De Gezelle , a spokeswoman at Renault’s headquarters in Boulogne-
Billancourt, declining to comment on the number of employees
affected because the negotiations are ongoing.  The plan is linked to forecasts that include an estimated
23 percent output drop next year at Sandouville, the northern
French plant producing the Laguna and Espace models, she said.  Renault ’s domestic production has fallen in step with
declining sales of larger cars assembled exclusively in France.
Smaller models such as the Clio and Twingo minis are
increasingly manufactured for the western European market in
Turkey, Slovenia and other lower-wage economies.  Renault  has said it may transfer future replacements for
the Espace people-carrier and Laguna mid-sized car to its plant
in Douai, France, from Sandouville.  Renault in September repaid one-third of an emergency 3
billion-euro ($4.1 billion) state loan it received early last
year to carry it through the credit crunch.  Renault  promised in
return to avoid job cuts.  Production Drop  “They got government funding to maintain capacity,”
London-based Credit Suisse analyst  Arndt Ellinghorst  said in a
telephone interview. “Now they’re paying it back and there’s a
debate on what has to be done.”  Production at Sandouville, which  employs  2,500 people, is
likely to drop to 53,000 vehicles next year from an expected
69,000 in 2010, De Gezelle said. The plant will be shuttered
between Dec. 17 and Jan. 14 for maintenance work and the
conversion of a production line, the carmaker said today.  Renault’s domestic  production  slump also reflects western
Europe’s gloomy auto-sales outlook in 2011, Ellinghorst said.  “The markets that will be doing particularly badly are
France, Italy, Spain and the U.K.,” he said. “These are
Renault’s core markets.”  In Renault’s last round of voluntary departures, which
ended last year, the company cut about 4,800 jobs from its
French workforce, which totaled 55,000 employees as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net . 