-- Rick Perry, Pistol-Packing Texas Governor, Had a Tea Party `Eureka Moment'
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2010-11-20T05:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/rick-perry-pistol-packing-texas-governor-had-a-tea-party-eureka-moment-.html
Americans are sick of too many
taxes, too much regulation and being told they’re putting too
much salt on their food, writes  Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  in his
new book, “Fed Up! Our Fight to Save America From Washington.”  Perry, a 60-year-old Republican in elected office since
1985, said visits to three Tea Party events on one day in 2009
inspired him to write the book, released this week.  “I saw people who were really scared for the first time in
their lives that their government was so out of touch with
them,” Perry said in an interview at the  Republican Governors
Association  meeting in San Diego on Nov. 18. “That was my
eureka moment.”  Perry, elected Nov. 2 to a third full term and the state’s
longest-serving governor, was chosen at the meeting to lead the
group, who now number 29.  His 220-page book is a catalog of what he considers federal
overreach. He calls Social Security a Ponzi scheme and the Obama
administration’s health-care bill “the closest this country has
ever come to outright socialism.” Washington politicians, he
argues, are stifling the nation.  “They’ve got to stop all these government-knows-best
programs,” he said in the interview. “Quit telling us which
light bulbs to have in our house, or which cars to drive, or how
much salt we can put on our processed food. Why don’t you do all
the things that are constitutionally directed, like defend our
border?”  ‘Stop Now’  Perry said that Representative  John Boehner , a fellow
Republican expected to be House majority leader in the new
Congress, should push the idea of sending federal Medicaid
grants to states without procedural requirements. That would
halve health-care costs, Perry said, as states find economies.  “There will be innovation breaking out all over this
country,” Perry said. “It’s the strings that are attached,
Washington mandating how we can spend the money. The election
was about, ‘You’re spending money we don’t have on programs we
don’t want. Stop now.’”  Perry declined to estimate his own state’s expected budget
shortfall, which the Dallas Morning News  reported  last month
could reach $25 billion over the next two years.  “I can guess like everyone else is guessing,” Perry said.
“But I’m not, because it’s irresponsible and premature.”  The second-largest U.S. state by population had a $10
billion deficit in 2003, Perry’s third year as governor, which
it closed through spending reductions and increasing fees.  Easy Plan  Handling a shortfall is simple, Perry said: “You
prioritize what is important to the people in the state and then
you reduce spending without raising taxes.”  Many Texans are worried,  Sherri Greenberg , a former
Democratic state legislator who is a lecturer at the Lyndon B.
Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas in
Austin, said Nov. 19 in a telephone interview.  “The business tax is falling short of what has been
projected,” she said. “We’re not going to have the stimulus
funding. You have that on top of an increasing Medicaid and
elementary-school population.”  The state this week sold $1.1 billion in bonds at yields
below 3 percent to reimburse the federal government for jobless
benefits. Texas had an 8.1 percent  unemployment rate  in October,
compared with a national level of 9.6 percent. Its general-
obligation bonds are rated Aaa by Moody’s, the top
classification, and AA+ by Standard and Poor’s, second-highest.  Texas, Perry said, will have a “good and vibrant and
feisty” debate over its budget.  Running, Shooting  The son of cotton farmers from  Paint Creek , Perry was an
Air Force pilot before running for offices including agriculture
commissioner and lieutenant governor, rising to governor after
George W. Bush was elected president in 2000.  “Texans elect folks like me,” he writes in his book.
“The kind of guy who goes jogging in the morning, packing a
Ruger .380 with laser sights and loaded with hollow-point
bullets and shoots a coyote that is threatening his daughter’s
dog.”  In addition to the San Diego meeting and a book-signing,
Perry met with representatives of more than six California
companies to persuade them to relocate to Texas, he said. This
year, 153 have done so, according to Perry.  California ’s Democratic governor-elect,  Jerry Brown , is
going to have to cut spending and make his state more business-
friendly, Perry said.  “You have to give those people who are paying the bulk of
the taxes a reason to stay in the state,” he said. “There’s
going to be some difficult days for California.”  Perry said New Mexico’s governor-elect,  Suzanna Martinez , a
fellow Republican, approached him in San Diego and said, “I’m
going to steal your jobs.”  Said Perry, “She gets it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in San Diego at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;  Tim Jones  in Chicago at   tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  