-- Rongsheng Heavy Declines in Hong Kong Debut on Speculation Price Too High
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-11-19T08:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/rongsheng-heavy-drops-in-hong-kong-debut-on-concern-ship-glut-may-build.html
China Rongsheng Heavy Industries
Group Holdings Ltd. , the nation’s largest shipbuilder outside
state control, declined on its first day of Hong Kong trading
amid speculation the price was too high relative to earnings.  Rongsheng  fell 0.5 percent to HK$7.96 at the 4 p.m. close
of trading in Hong Kong, after dropping as much as 6 percent.
The shipyard raised HK$14 billion ($1.8 billion) selling 1.75
billion shares at HK$8 apiece in its initial public offering.  Rongsheng’s debut adds to a more-than-doubling of new share
sales this year in Hong Kong by value compared with all of 2009.
The shipyard sold shares at about 30 times this year’s estimated
earnings, compared with a multiple of 27 for China Shipbuilding
Industry Co., the nation’s biggest maker of vessel equipment.
Companies have raised at least $43 billion in Hong Kong initial
public offerings this year, the most in more than a decade.  “Investors may be a little fatigued with IPOs, and this
isn’t a cheap stock to buy into,” said  Kenny Tang , executive
director at Redford Asset Management Ltd. in Hong Kong.
“Concerns of overcapacity in the industry may be an overhang on
the stock.”  AIA Group Ltd.  raised $20.5 billion last month in the
largest offering in Hong Kong’s history. The stock has gained 18
percent from the sale price.  Funding Expansion  Shanghai-based Rongsheng, with yards in eastern China’s
Jiangsu and Anhui provinces, will use a quarter of the IPO
proceeds to build a fourth drydock and for offshore engineering
projects to meet demand for vessels amid a global trade rebound.
New orders in China’s shipbuilding industry rose nearly fourfold
in the first 10 months of this year, according to the Beijing-
based Ministry of Industry and Information Technology.  Rongsheng received orders to build 84 vessels for a
combined 15.1 million deadweight tons as of Sept. 30.  “We’re confident about growth in the shipping industry,”
Chief Executive Officer Chen Qiang told reporters today in Hong
Kong. He also said he expects “bigger growth” in the company’s
offshore engineering business.  Pacific Basin Shipping Ltd. , Hong Kong’s largest operator
of dry-bulk vessels, this week said it will expand its fleet by
spending $284.4 million on 10 more ships.  Hanjin Shipping Co. ,
South Korea’s largest shipping line, and China Shipping (Group)
Co. said last week they were close to ordering new vessels.  Ore-Carriers  Rongsheng’s orders for so-called very large ore carriers of
more than 300,000 deadweight tons accounted for about a quarter
of global orders as of Sept. 30, according to the company’s
listing prospectus.  Ship deliveries in the third quarter may bring
overcapacity, damping rates amid signs of weakening economic
recovery in Europe and the U.S. The shipping-line industry
posted losses last year after rates slumped because of
overcapacity and slowing demand.  Net income will probably rise to at least 1.61 billion yuan
($243 million) this year, Rongsheng said in the prospectus,
compared with 1.3 billion yuan in the previous year.  Sales in the first eight months rose 70 percent to 8.17
billion yuan, according to the prospectus.  Investors including China Investment Corp.,  China National
Offshore Oil Corp.  and  China Life Insurance (Group) Co.  agreed
to buy a combined $285 million of Rongsheng shares.  Morgan Stanley , CCB International,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,
BOC International Holdings Ltd. and  Deutsche Bank AG  managed the
sale.  Rongsheng’s debut also follows  General Motors Co. ’s return
to the New York Stock Exchange after a $20 billion offering. The
carmaker’s owners, including the U.S. Treasury, sold $15.8
billion of common shares at $33 each, and its offering of $4.35
billion of preferred shares and an overallotment option may
boost the total to $23.1 billion. That’s more than the $22.1
billion raised by Beijing-based  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. 
in the biggest IPO of common stock in history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.netAQ  