-- Rubber Futures Advance for Second Day on Tight Supply, U.S. Economic Data
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2010-11-19T07:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/rubber-futures-advance-for-second-day-on-tight-supply-u-s-economic-data.html
Rubber climbed for a second day as
U.S. jobless claims and manufacturing data boosted optimism that
the economic recovery is gathering pace amid tight supply from
major producers in Southeast Asia.  April-delivery rubber on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
surged as much as 3.8 percent to 375.9 yen per kilogram ($4,502
a metric ton) before settling at 367.7 yen. The most-active
contract has gained 2.1 percent this week and climbed 33 percent
this year as heavy rain in Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia, the
top three growers, has disrupted tapping and lowered production.  “Worries over the Irish debt problem have eased and U.S.
economic data are supportive, raising optimism demand for the
commodity will continue to grow,” Varut Rungkhum, analyst at
commodity broker Agro Wealth Ltd., said by phone from Bangkok.  Ireland will probably seek a bailout from the European
Union and International Monetary Fund worth “tens of billions”
of euros to rescue its battered banks, central bank Governor
 Patrick Honohan  told Irish state broadcaster RTE yesterday.
Fewer workers than forecast filed for U.S. jobless benefits,
while Philadelphia-area manufacturing topped estimates.  May-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange gained
by the daily 5 percent limit to 34,415 yuan ($5,185) a ton and
closed at that level. The contract has lost 3.8 percent this
week, down from a record 38,920 yuan reached on Nov. 11, amid
concern that China may take additional steps to curb inflation.  Tight Supply  “Supply remains tight,” Gu Jiong, an analyst at commodity
broker Yutaka Shoji Co., said by phone from Tokyo. Rubber was
also supported by rallies in other commodities and a weakening
Japanese currency, he added.  The cash price in Thailand climbed to a record 132.25 baht
($4.42) per kilogram today as heavy rain and floods in the
country’s south damaged trees, tightening supply, according to
the  Rubber Research Institute of Thailand .  Natural-rubber output in Thailand may decline by 10 percent
to 870,000 tons in the fourth quarter, reducing total output
this year by 5 percent to 3 million tons, according to an
estimate by the Thai Rubber Association.  Applications for unemployment insurance payments rose by
2,000 to 439,000 in the week ended Nov. 13, Labor Department
figures showed. Claims were projected to rise to 441,000,
according to the median economist estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. The total number of people collecting unemployment
insurance dropped to the lowest level in two years, while those
receiving extended payments climbed.  Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region expanded in
November to the highest level this year. The Fed Bank of
Philadelphia’s  general economic index  rose to 22.5 from 1 a
month earlier. Readings greater than zero signal expansion. The
gauge was forecast to increase to 5, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net 
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  