-- Russian Massacre Sparks Probe of Corrupt Officials After Decade of Terror
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-11-19T08:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/russian-massacre-sparks-corruption-probe-after-decade-of-terror.html
The Russian government plans to
investigate a decade of unsolved crimes in two southern regions
after the murders of 12 people focused attention on allegations
that local officials aided a gang terrorizing the region.  Members of three families, including four children, were
killed Nov. 5 at a cottage in the town of Kushchevskaya, police
say. The suspects are allegedly members of a gang that has
operated in the Krasnodar and Rostov regions since the 1990s,
said  Alexander Bastrykin , head of the  Investigative Committee of
the Prosecutor General’s Office .  Teams of investigators have been sent to the region to
uncover any links between the gangsters and local officials,
said Vladimir Vasiliev, head of the Security Committee of the
State Duma. President  Dmitry Medvedev  has made fighting
corruption one of his main goals and plans to reorganize police
nationwide after reports of illegal arrests and beatings.  “This case will make us assess the situation across the
country; this is about the new police law,” Vasiliev told
reporters yesterday in Moscow after meeting with Bastrykin. “We
need to go there and work with people so residents understand
this gang doesn’t represent the Krasnodar region or Russia.”  Bastrykin said he will travel to Kushchevskaya personally
to meet with residents and receive their complaints.  Federal investigators have arrested six people in
connection with the Kushchevskaya case, including the alleged
gang leader, Sergei Tsapok, a member of the municipal parliament
for Kuschshevsky district Tsapok’s elder brother, Nikolai,
helped found the gang in the mid-1990s and was killed in 2002,
according to the committee.  Authorities ‘Compromised’  “We think these are not the final arrests,” Bastrykin
said. “There are two main motives that could be behind this
crime. One is a robbery and the second is the revenge for the
killing of the elder brother.”  Investigators will review information about the gang
previously published in the local media, Bastrykin said.  The newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda published the results of
its first  investigation   of violence in the region of 73,000
people four years ago, saying many complaints of rapes and other
attacks weren’t accepted by police. Komsomolskaya Pravda this
week reported that members of the gang raped more than 220 girls
over the past 16 years.  Residents were unwilling to provide police with information
about the suspects in the Kushchevskaya killings because local
officials are “compromised,” Vasiliev said. As a result, the
investigation is being conducted by teams assigned by federal
authorities, he said.  Russia is the world’s most corrupt major economy, according
to Berlin-based Transparency International’s 2010 Corruption
Perceptions Index released Oct. 26. It ranked 154th among 178
countries, alongside Tajikistan and Kenya.  Criminal cases will be opened against local officials if
evidence of their involvement is uncovered, Bastrykin said.  “We have a law that allows us to give life sentences to
officials if they are cooperating with gangs,” Vasiliev said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  