-- Ryanair CEO Says $823 Million Dublin Terminal Explains Why Nation `Broke'
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-11-19T16:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/ryanair-s-o-leary-slams-dublin-terminal-as-imf-welcome-lounge.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc  Chief Executive
 Michael O’Leary  turned up at Dublin airport’s new terminal
dressed as an undertaker to dismiss it as a “nice welcoming
lounge” for International Monetary Fund officials.  “It will remind them every time they come to Ireland why
Ireland is broke,” he said in an interview. He compared it to
the “fantasy property developments” that have brought the
country’s banks close to collapse.  O’Leary’s appearance stole the limelight from Prime
Minister  Brian Cowen , who was opening the terminal one day after
his government admitted it may need to turn to the European
Union and the IMF for financial assistance. Cowen told reporters
today that talks with the EU and the IMF are “going well” and
his government is seeking the “best possible” package.  Ryanair opposed the building of Terminal 2, which
competitor Aer Lingus Group Plc, one-quarter owned by the Irish
government, will use from Nov. 23. The Dublin Airport Authority
said two days ago that the 600 million-euro ($823 million)
terminal is an “investment in Ireland’s future.”  “Now we are working to see what support program can be
devised, would be helpful to Ireland, and which would protect
our interests,” Cowen told reporters at the airport. Patrick
Honohan, Governor of Ireland’s central bank said yesterday he
expects the government to accept a loan from the European Union
and IMF totaling “tens of billions of euros.”  Draped Coffin  O’Leary arrived at today’s opening with a coffin draped in
the Irish flag together with a wreath, inscribed with the
message “Irish Tourism R.I.P.” Ireland’s emigrants will
continue to fly out of the older Terminal 1 on Ryanair, O’Leary
said.  Aer Lingus Chief Executive Officer Christoph Mueller
welcomed the new terminal at today’s opening saying its older
counterpart is “too small” particularly the baggage handling
facility. The new terminal will result in more than 1,000 new
jobs and employed more than 10,400 people during three years of
construction, Cowen said today.  Ryanair’s O’Leary puts the cost of the new terminal at 1.2
billion euros and says the government should mothball the
“unnecessary white elephant.” Ryanair said this week it is
cutting 48 flights at Dublin airport, in response to higher
airport charges.  The airport authority said Nov. 17 that Ryanair was
spreading a “myriad of untruths, exaggerations” and using
“puerile metaphors” about the new terminal for “its own
purposes.”  Cowen today defended the opening of the terminal as
“correct” even after a decline of 3 million passengers at
Dublin airport last year. Judging the new terminal ‘through the
prism of the current downturn would be short-sighted in the
extreme,” said Cowen.  About 8 million passengers will use the new terminal in its
first year of operation and it will contribute to Irish tourism,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  