-- Genzyme Expects to Meet Deadline on Plant Changes
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2010-11-19T22:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/sanofi-buyout-target-genzyme-to-meet-u-s-deadline-to-change-manufacturing.html
Genzyme Corp. , the biotechnology
company being pursued in a hostile takeover by French drugmaker
 Sanofi-Aventis SA , expects to meet a Nov. 28 deadline to move
finishing and filling operations for U.S. products out of its
Allston, Massachusetts plant.  Genzyme spokesman  Bo Piela  discussed the company’s progress
on meeting the deadline in a telephone interview today. The U.S.
Food and Drug Administration asked Genzyme to make changes at
its Allston plant after a virus contamination.  The manufacturing glitches caused shortages of the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based biotech’s top-selling drugs,
driving shares down as much as much as 43 percent from a 2008
high. Paris-based Sanofi, France’s largest drugmaker, bid $69 a
share, or about $18.5 billion, in August to buy Genzyme, and
took the offer directly to shareholders in October after the
company spurned the bid as too low.  “They are on target -- that’s obviously a positive and --
if it’s true -- certainly could change the complexion of the
ongoing deal,”  Les Funtleyder , a portfolio manager at Miller
Tabak & Co. in New York, said today in a telephone interview.
“If you were assuming it was going to be a problem, it would be
one more reason why you wouldn’t want to increase your price --
now perhaps you would.”  Genzyme rose $1.04, or 1.5 percent, to $71.31 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The shares
have gained 32 percent since July 22, the last day of trading
before Sanofi’s buyout interest was reported.  Sanofi’s tender offer to Genzyme shareholders is set to
expire Dec. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 