-- Sava of Slovenia to Sell Lender Abanka to Cut Debt
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2010-11-19T10:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/sava-of-slovenia-seeks-to-sell-abanka-to-lower-debt-after-nine-month-loss.html
Sava Group d.d. , Slovenia’s rubber
maker that reported a loss in the first nine months of the year,
wants to sell its stake in lender  Abanka Vipa d.d.  to cut debt.  Sava is ready to sell 23.8 percent of Slovenia’s third-
biggest bank by assets, the Kranj-based company said in a  filing 
to the Ljubljana stock exchange today. The sale is scheduled for
the first half.  “The sale of Abanka would lower the net indebtedness of
the company, which at the end of October amounted to 281 million
euros,” Sava said in the statement. Sava is in talks with other
 Abanka investors  to sell their holding, which may surpass the 50
percent level in the Slovenian bank. The single biggest investor
in Abanka is insurer  Zavarovalnica Triglav d.d.  with a 25.6
percent stake.  Slovenian companies are struggling to remain profitable
after the worst recession in Europe in seven decades. Sava
reported a nine-month loss of 80.3 million-euro ($110 million)
on writedowns from its investment in Merkur d.d., the Slovenian
homeware and construction retailer that declared insolvency in
September.  Economic Recovery  Slovenia’s export-driven  economy , which dropped the most
among the 16-nations sharing the euro last year, is set to
advance 1.1 percent this year, according to a Nov. 18 estimate
by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  “The sale announcement is somewhat surprising,” Bojan
Ivanc, an analyst at Ljubljana-based KD Banka d.d., said in an
e-mail. “It will be difficult for Sava to get a high price for
its stake because impairments in the banking industry are still
rising.”  The Adriatic country’s three largest banks, Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d.,  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.  and
Abanka, had their ratings cut in September by Moody’s Investor
Service because of their struggle with non-performing loans. Bad
loans in the industry are the main drag on the Slovenia’s
economic recovery, central bank Governor  Marko Kranjec  has said.  Both Abanka and Sava were unchanged in trading on the
Ljubljana stock exchange at 10:50 a.m. Abanka has lost 8.6
percent of its value since the start of the year, giving the
bank a market value of 348.4  million euros. Sava dropped 37
percent since the start of the year, which compares with a 12.5
percent drop by the benchmark index SBITOP in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Boris Cerni  in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  