-- Scarborough Suspended From MSNBC for Two Days Over Florida Campaign Gifts
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 2010-11-19T21:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/scarborough-suspended-from-msnbc-for-two-days-over-florida-campaign-gifts.html
MSNBC  suspended talk-show host  Joe Scarborough  for two days, marking the second time this month the
cable news network punished one of its on-air personalities for
making political contributions without prior permission.  Scarborough, host of “ Morning Joe ,” made eight $500
donations to candidates in Florida in violation of policy, MSNBC
President  Phil Griffin  said today in an e-mailed statement. He
will return Nov. 24.  The donations were made to his brother and three longtime
friends, and were limited to local races in which he had no
political interest, Scarborough said in the same e-mail. The
episode follows MSNBC’s Nov. 5 suspension of host and political
commentator  Keith Olbermann , who gave a total of $7,200 to three
Congressional candidates in the Nov. 2 midterm elections.  “I recognize that I have a responsibility to honor the
guidelines and conditions of my employment, and I regret that I
failed to do so in this matter,” Scarborough said. “I
apologize to MSNBC and to anyone who has been negatively
affected by my actions.”  Olbermann’s two-day suspension sparked debate over whether
MSNBC’s rules, intended to preserve impartiality, are outdated
since the network’s programming strategy relies on partisan
hosts like Olbermann and  Rachel Maddow .  Some news organizations ban political donations, while
others allow them. MSNBC requires contributions be cleared in
advance by the network.  Local Races  “Because the contributions involved local, non-competitive
races -- and were given for personal rather than political
reasons -- I mistakenly believed I did not need approval from
MSNBC,” Scarborough said.  MSNBC is part of NBC Universal, the  General Electric Co. 
unit that will be majority owned by Philadelphia-based  Comcast
Corp. , the largest U.S. cable company. The deal is expected to
close this year.  GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, rose 18 cents to
$16.22 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading ,
and has added 7.2 percent this year. Comcast lost 1 cent to
$20.56 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, and has gained 22 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 Rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  