-- SEC Proposes Requiring Hedge Funds, LBO Firms to Register With U.S. Agency
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-11-19T21:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/sec-proposes-requiring-registration-by-hedge-funds.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission proposed requiring hedge funds and private-equity
funds to submit to inspections and new disclosure requirements,
aiming to expand oversight as required by the Dodd-Frank law.  SEC commissioners voted 4-1 today to approve a preliminary
rule requiring most hedge-fund managers, who currently operate
with limited government scrutiny, to register with the agency.  The rules would improve what regulators know about the
funds, including their size and the identity of key personnel,
SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said during a meeting at the agency’s
Washington headquarters. Deeper background information, such as
the name of an auditor, can “serve as a red flag to
regulators,” she said.  Until now, the funds have been “out of sight and were
unknown to financial regulators and the public,” Schapiro said.  The proposal will be subject to a comment period before
final rules are adopted. The rules would revise the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940, creating different tier to classify
private investment pools by size. At the highest level, advisers
managing more than $150 million in U.S. assets would have to
register, requiring them to hire compliance officers and submit
to periodic inspections by SEC examiners.  Gatekeepers  The funds also would face wider reporting requirements.
They would be required to identify critical “gatekeepers,”
including each fund’s auditors, prime brokers, custodians,
administrators and marketers, in addition to reporting basic
information about their operations, types of clients and
business practices that could lead to conflicts of interest.  Some private funds would be exempt from registration:
venture capital funds, foreign funds and those with assets of
less than $150 million. Those would still have to share basic
information, identities of owners and affiliates and any
disciplinary history of the adviser.  The final tier specified under Dodd-Frank and detailed in
the SEC proposal is an increased swath of smaller hedge fund
advisers with less than $100 million in assets -- an adviser
list the SEC estimates in the thousands -- which would be swept
into regulation by state securities authorities.  Republican SEC Commissioner  Kathleen Casey  was the lone
vote going against today’s proposal, arguing that the reporting
requirement for the exempted advisers “collapsed a carefully
wrought distinction between registered advisers and exempt
advisers.”  Grandfather Clause  Casey praised a grandfather clause within the proposed
rules that would “minimize disruption” for established venture
capital firms, letting them more easily seek exemption. Any fund
that has represented itself as a venture capital fund could meet
the rule’s exemption. Otherwise, the definitions for an exempt
venture capital firm are that it invests in private companies to
primarily provide operating or expansion capital, it’s not
leveraged, it lends managerial help and it doesn’t offer
redemption rights to investors.  “It sounds as if the definition of venture capital fund is
now relatively narrow, as I expected it would be,” said  Barry Barbash , a former director of the SEC’s division of investment
management and now a partner at Willkie Farr & Gallagher in
Washington. “The SEC never appeared to be all that thrilled
with an exemption for venture capital funds in the first
place.”  Democratic Commissioner  Elisse Walter  said the grandfather
provision was “written quite broadly.” She said it leaves her
with a “degree of nervousness” about funds seeking exemptions
that bear “no resemblance” to genuine venture capital funds.  2004 Lawsuit  This isn’t the first time the SEC has tackled hedge fund
registration, although the agency is now backed up by Dodd-
Frank. Its earlier effort in 2004 fell short when a U.S. appeals
court agreed with hedge-fund manager  Phillip Goldstein , who
filed a lawsuit, that the agency lacked authority to impose the
rule.  In separate votes today, SEC commissioners also unanimously
proposed requiring security-based swap data repositories to
register with the agency, as well as a rule describing how such
swap transactions should be reported and publicly disseminated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Hamilton  in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 