-- Senate Approves $4.6 Billion for Claims by Black Farmers, American Indians
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-11-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/senate-approves-4-6-billion-for-claims-by-black-farmers-american-indians.html
The U.S. Senate yesterday approved
spending $4.6 billion to settle two lawsuits: one by black
farmers who alleged racial discrimination by government lenders
and the other by 300,000 American Indians who said they had been
cheated out of land royalties dating to 1887.  Passage of the measure, by voice vote, unblocks a
legislative logjam that has thwarted payouts, negotiated by the
Obama administration, of $1.15 billion to the black farmers and
$3.4 billion to the American Indians.  “We are one step closer to ensuring that the black farmers
and Native Americans in these suits are fully compensated for
past failures of judgment by the government,” U.S. House
Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, said in a statement
after the Senate vote. House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer , a
Maryland Democrat, said he hopes to seek a vote after Congress
returns from a week-long recess on Nov. 29.  President  Barack Obama  praised the Senate action and urged
the House to move forward with the bill “as they did last
year.”  The House included the funding in war supplemental
legislation it passed this summer, but it must vote on the
settlements again. The Senate version of the war supplemental
did not contain the funding to settle the lawsuits because
Republicans objected to the proposed financing method, saying it
added to the deficit.  At least seven times this year, Senate Republicans blocked
efforts to include the spending provisions in pending
legislation. Their objections prompted repeated complaints by
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, who said
in an Aug. 5 statement that Republicans’ “petty political
calculations” were “denying justice to these Americans.”  Yesterday, Reid said in a statement that justice “will
finally be served.”  Discrimination Alleged  The farmers’ 1997 class-action lawsuit alleged
discrimination by the Agriculture Department’s lending programs.
Under a negotiated settlement announced in February, qualified
farmers can collect as much as $50,000, plus debt relief. Others
may collect monetary damages up to $250,000.  The Obama administration requested $1.15 billion in its
2010 budget, on top of $100 million that Congress approved in
the 2008 farm bill to finance the settlement.  Agriculture Secretary  Tom Vilsack  said in a statement
yesterday that the Senate’s “bold step” to finance the black
farmers’ settlement “marks a major milestone in USDA’s efforts
to turn the page on a sad chapter in our history.”  One of the largest class-action cases filed against the
U.S., the 1996 lawsuit by American Indian plaintiffs accused the
Interior Department of mismanaging trust funds that collected
royalties for grazing rights and the extraction of minerals, oil
and natural gas from tribal lands. Attorney General  Eric Holder 
announced the settlement of that case last December.  “This is a day that will be etched in our memories and our
history books,” Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said in a
statement yesterday. The settlement “honorably and responsibly
addresses long-standing injustices,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  