-- Ground Zero Health Claims Settled by 10,000 Workers
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-19T21:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/sept-11-settlement-joined-by-more-than-10-000-exposed-to-ground-zero-dust.html
More than 10,000 World Trade Center
workers who claimed illness or injury after the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attack have reached a settlement on their claims
against New York City and its contractors, lawyers said today.  The plaintiffs, representing 95.1 percent of all claims,
crossed a 95 percent threshold needed to activate a fund of more
than $625 million. The  World Trade Center Captive Insurance Co. ,
a U.S. government-funded entity protecting the city and its
contractors, will disburse the money, according to a news
release sent jointly by the company and claimant attorneys.  “We negotiated for over two years to achieve this
settlement for our clients, which we truly believe is the best
result,” said  Paul Napoli , an attorney representing some of the
workers. The addition of some of the still-to-be-evaluated
plaintiffs who agreed to the settlement may increase the total
compensation by more than $100 million, he said.  The  Garretson Firm Resolution Group Inc. , an independent
claims-administration company with offices in Cincinnati and
Charlotte, North Carolina, reported that 10,043 plaintiffs
accepted the settlement. The company presented the results to
U.S. District Judge  Alvin Hellerstein  in Manhattan, who presided
over the litigation and previously declared the deal “fair,
adequate and reasonable.”  More than 98 percent of those claiming the most severe
injuries and health issues approved the agreement, the news
release said.  Toxic Debris  In the absence of commercially available insurance, the
World Trade Center Captive Insurance Co. was formed in July 2004
to insure the city and about 140 contractors, subcontractors and
others against claims arising out of the debris-removal process
after the collapse of the Twin Towers.  The lawsuits arose out of claims that illness and injury
resulted from the alleged failure of the city and its
contractors to provide gear that would protect against toxic
debris, dust and fumes from a fire at the site that burned for
weeks after the attack.  Those claiming debilitating respiratory illnesses, such as
severe asthma contracted by a non-smoker within seven months of
exposure at the World Trade Center site and surrounding areas,
may receive between $800,000 and $1.1 million, with about $1.5
million for claims of death. Plaintiffs who have no qualifying
injury yet fear becoming sick will receive $3,250, the law firms
said in a news release.  All qualifying plaintiffs will be enrolled in a special
insurance policy through  MetLife Inc.  to provide coverage for
certain blood and respiratory cancers diagnosed during the
coverage period, paying a benefit of as much as $100,000.  “This settlement is a fair and just resolution of these
claims, protecting those who came to the aid of this city when
we needed it most,” Mayor Michael Bloomberg said in a
statement.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 