-- Chinese Refiners Boost Diesel Imports to Ease Shortage
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-19T08:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/sinopec-seeks-to-import-as-much-as-200-000-tons-of-diesel-to-ease-shortage.html
Chinese state refiners are ramping
up diesel imports starting this month to help meet increased
demand that has depleted 2,000 retail fuel stations in the
country’s eastern and southern provinces.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. , the nation’s biggest
refiner, is seeking to import as much as 200,000 metric tons
after buying 80,000 tons earlier in November, its parent said in
its on-line  newsletter  today. The price of Asia gasoil, or
diesel, has risen 12 percent more than Dubai crude so far this
month on speculation Chinese demand for the fuel will increase.  China is battling a shortage of the fuel as demand from
farmers increases during the autumn harvest and factories turn
to their own diesel-powered generators after some local
authorities shut power supplies to save energy.  PetroChina Co. 
and China Petroleum, known as Sinopec, are boosting oil
processing to records this month to ensure adequate supplies.  “Diesel shortages will ease as Sinopec and PetroChina step
up production and increase imports,” Qiu Xiaofeng, an oil
analyst at China Merchants Securities Ltd., said by telephone in
Shanghai. “An expected drop in demand from farmers during
winter will also alleviate the shortfall.”  More than 2,000 service stations closed after running out
of diesel, the official Xinhua News agency said on Nov. 7.
Supplies in other cities including Beijing, Shanghai, Chongqing,
Dalian and Wuhan are also tight, according to Xinhua.  China’s daily diesel consumption averaged 420,000 tons
in the first nine months, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on government data. Monthly diesel imports averaged
126,666 tons in the January to September period. The government
is scheduled to release its October oil import data on Nov. 22.  Strong Demand  Asia’s benchmark gasoil crack spread, a measure of refining
margin, climbed to $14.32 a barrel on Nov. 15, the highest since
January 2009, according to data from PVM Oil Associates, a
broker. The  premium  of gasoil to Dubai crude was at $13.47
today.  China may become a net importer of the fuel in the second
quarter of 2011 as demand remains “strong” and the country
adds limited refining capacity in the next two years, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said in a report on Nov. 4. China has been a
net diesel exporter since November 2008, with net shipments
reaching 2.76 million tons in the first nine months.  China International United Petroleum & Chemical Co.,
Sinopec’s trading unit, is exporting less diesel amid the fuel
shortages. November shipments may be as low as 10,000 tons, said
an official with knowledge of the plan yesterday. Exports
reached 90,000 tons in October and 120,000 tons in September.  Sinopec plans to increase diesel sales by 20 percent this
month and boost total oil-product supplies by 15 percent to a
record, the refiner said today, without giving volumes.  PetroChina plans to import 35,000 tons of diesel, Xinhua
said yesterday, citing an unidentified company official. The
report didn’t say when the shipments will arrive.  -- Winnie Zhu . Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  Clyde Russell .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 