-- Societe Generale Says Former Client, Suing Over Losses, Understood Risks
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-11-19T06:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/societe-generale-says-former-client-suing-over-losses-understood-risks.html
Societe Generale  SA’s Singapore unit,
sued by a former private banking client for hiding investment
losses, said the legally trained businessman made his own
decisions and understood the terms of the bank’s agreements.  Chan Leong Cheng “held himself out to be a sophisticated
investor who was capable of evaluating the terms, potential
financial consequences and risks of foreign currency trading,”
the unit of France’s second-biggest bank said in its defense
filed with the Singapore High Court yesterday.  Chan, a resident of Perth, Western Australia, sued Societe
Generale and two of its executives last month in a bid to
recover $7.9 million of the losses. Chan claimed Senior Director
Liew Marn Leng and her supervisor Lilian Ang made wrong currency
bets which almost depleted his $10 million account and for years
removed pages from his statements to hide the losses.  Liew was suspended from work on Sept. 1 while Ang quit the
same day, according to court papers. Liew and Ang have denied
any wrongdoing and called Chan’s suit a “sham.”  There were “inconsistencies” in some of the notes that
Liew and Ang allegedly handed to Chan giving a summary of his
position and the actual value in his account, Societe Generale
said in its papers. The bank said even if there were any
“alleged acts of fraud or deceit” by Liew and Ang, they were
done without Societe Generale’s knowledge.  Ang denied sending the notes to Chan and countersued him
for making “false and malicious” statements against her.  Chan knew of the losses for years and “his intention was
not to cause any trouble but that he needed assistance on tax
difficulties,” Liew said.  Chan is seeking $7.9 million, the difference between $8.2
million the bankers claimed was in the account on March 3 and
the actual holdings in cash and stocks.  The case is Chan Leong Cheng vs. Societe Generale Bank &
Trust Singapore Branch, Liew Marn Leng Jenny and Lilian Ang,
S780/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  