-- Societe Generale to Double Revenue in Eastern European Corporate Banking
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2010-11-19T12:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/societe-generale-to-double-revenue-in-eastern-european-corporate-banking.html
Societe Generale SA , France’s
second-biggest bank, plans to double revenue at its corporate-
and investment-banking division in central and eastern Europe in
the next four years.  “We want to develop our client base, benefit from
improving sentiment in the market as well as from higher demand
for financial services from infrastructure and energy
industries,”  Slawomir Krupa , the division’s chief executive
officer, said in an interview in Warsaw today.  The region, which also includes the Middle East and Africa,
accounted for less than 10 percent of the 9.7 billion euros
($13.3 billion) in sales at Societe Generale’s corporate- and
investment-banking business last year, Krupa said.  “We intend to double that in the next three to four
years,” he said.  The Paris-based bank, which today has more than 400
employees dedicated to corporate and investment banking in the
region, plans to expand its business in Russia, Poland, the
Czech Republic, Turkey and the Middle East, Krupa said. In
Poland, the lender will hire two analysts and at least one
specialist for the equity market by the end of this year, he
said.  ‘Converging Market’  “Poland stands out as it’s a stable country with an
expanding economy, a developing stock exchange and has lower
risk perception,” Krupa said. “It’s more of a converging”
market rather than an emerging market now, he said.  Societe Generale this year helped manage the 1.2 billion-
zloty ($420 million) initial public offering of the Warsaw Stock
Exchange as well as the government’s sale of 10 percent stake in
PGE SA, the country’s largest power utility, for 4 billion
zloty. It also participated in Eurobond sales worth a combined 4
billion euros by the state and an 800 million-euro Eurobond sale
by PKO Bank Polski SA, the country’s biggest bank.  Poland has had the highest number of IPOs annually in
central Europe since at least 2004, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Companies have raised $4.36 billion in 52 share
sales this year.  The country’s growth as well as record state-asset sales
this year also prompted other investment banks including Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and UBS AG to announce their
intentions of expanding in Warsaw. Credit Suisse Group AG
reopened a brokerage firm there this year after shuttering its
Warsaw stock-dealing business in 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marta Waldoch  in Warsaw on 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  