-- South Africa `Well Placed' at BBB+, Signaling S&P May Lift from `Negative
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-11-19T10:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/south-africa-s-bbb-credit-rating-well-placed-standard-poor-s-says.html
South Africa has “moved on” since
Standard & Poor’s assigned a negative outlook to the nation’s
credit rating in 2008 and is “well placed” at the current BBB+
level, according to the company that ranks creditworthiness.  “A number of the elements that were present when we put
the negative outlook in place in late 2008 have changed now,”
 Konrad Reuss , S&P’s Managing Director for sub-Saharan Africa,
said in an interview in Cape Town yesterday, where he was
attending a conference. “We assigned it when the financial
crisis was in full swing and capital was flowing out -- from
that perspective South Africa has moved on.”  S&P has kept its outlook on South Africa at negative since
lowering it from stable two years ago on concern a slowdown in
the $286 billion economy that coincided with the global
financial crisis would damage the country’s ability to repay
debt. The company, whose debt rating for South Africa is the
third-lowest investment-grade ranking on the S&P scale,
typically has an outlook horizon that “is normally in place for
about two years,” said Reuss.  “The fiscal prudence shown by the National Treasury in
bringing down the size of the deficit is certainly a positive
sign,” said Reuss. “The impact of the global recession on the
fiscal metrics has been a lot more moderate than we
anticipated.”  Fiscal Prudence  Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan raised his 2010
economic growth forecast to 3 percent from a February estimate
of 2.3 percent and said he plans to narrow the budget deficit to
4.6 percent of  gross domestic product  in the year through March
2012 from 5.3 percent this fiscal year. The growth estimate
remains below the 7 percent the government says is needed to
create 5 million jobs over the next decade and remedy the
country’s 25.3 percent unemployment rate, the highest among 62
nations tracked by Bloomberg.  “The positive observations of fiscal prudence and macro-
economic stability are balanced by the negative structural
impediments such as moderate economic growth, weak job creation
and high social inequality,” Reuss said. “With that in mind we
believe the rating is well placed at the upper end of the BBB+
category.”  Sub-Par Growth  South Africa’s “sub-par” economic growth rate, which is
below that of its emerging-market counterparts, must be improved
to reduce unemployment and social inequality, said Reuss. An
economic growth rate of between 6 and 7 percent a year is
required to remedy these problems, he said.  Brazil and India’s growth rates are 8.8 percent, while
China’s is 9.6 percent.  “Real upside to the sovereign rating is only likely to
occur when there is an improvement in these structural
impediments,” said Reuss.  Political Risk  S&P sees a “moderate” increase in South Africa’s
political risk stemming from calls by the ruling African
National Congress’s youth wing and labor union allies for the
nationalization of mines and more government intervention in the
economy, said Reuss.  “The ongoing debate around some of these issues can
certainly be concerning at times,” said Reuss.  The ANC, which has ruled South Africa since apartheid ended
in 1994, plans to appoint two independent researchers to
investigate the viability of nationalizing the country’s mines
before it becomes party policy. The organization’s Youth League,
which has also called for the nationalization of banks, said
yesterday that a research outcome that ignores “the national
democratic revolutionary agenda” would be rejected.  South Africa, the continent’s biggest economy, is rated A3
at Moody’s Investors Service, its fourth-lowest investment-grade
ranking, and BBB+ at Fitch Ratings, three steps above non-
investment grade status.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  