-- Soybeans, Corn Decline as China Moves to Slow Growth May Curb Food Demand
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-11-19T21:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/soybeans-corn-decline-as-china-moves-to-slow-growth-may-curb-food-demand.html
Soybean futures fell, capping the
biggest weekly decline since early October, and corn prices
slipped as moves by China to slow its economy threaten to curb
demand for imported food and animal feed.  China ordered its banks to set aside larger reserves for
the fifth time this year, draining cash from the financial
system to limit inflation. The Asian country is the biggest
consumer of soybeans and the second-largest user of corn after
the U.S. Both commodities surged earlier this month to the
highest prices in two years as growth accelerated in China.  “Concern that the increase in reserves will be followed by
higher Chinese interest rates has encouraged selling,” said
 Shawn McCambridge , the senior grain analyst for Prudential Bache
Commodities LLC in Chicago. “People just want to get out of
positions before the weekend.”  Soybean futures for January delivery fell 40.5 cents, or
3.3 percent, to close at $12.015 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. The most-active futures dropped 5.3
percent for the week, the most since Oct. 1.  Corn futures for March delivery fell 21 cents, or 3.8
percent, to $5.3475 a bushel in Chicago, capping a weekly drop
of 2.4 percent after plunging 8.9 percent last week.  On Nov. 9, corn reached a 26-month high of $6.175 after the
U.S. Department of Agriculture said adverse weather reduced the
size of the domestic crop, the world’s largest. Soybeans touched
$13.485 on Nov. 12, the highest since August 2009, as Chinese
demand surged.  More Needed  China’s plans to attack inflation with subsidies, sales of
food reserves and the threat of price controls probably will be
insufficient, and the central bank will have to raise interest
rates, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Food demand is rising in the country, the world’s biggest
consumer, according to the United Soybean Board, which
represents U.S. farmers and funds industry marketing and
research.  “Their demand for food is going to be so great” that
processors will continue buying soybeans, Philip Bradshaw, the
group’s chairman, said after a seminar with South Korean clients
in Seoul. “They will import more this year,” Bradshaw said in
an interview.  Prices also fell as rain improved prospects for crops in
South America, where soil moisture had been depleted by dry
weather earlier this year, Prudential’s McCambridge said.  Parts of Brazil got as much as 3 inches (7.6 centimeters)
of rain in the past 24 hours and most of the growing region will
have showers every few days during the next two weeks,  World
Weather Inc.  said in a report today. Some fields in Argentina
got as much as 0.8 inch of rain the past 24 hours with more
expected in the next week, the private forecaster said.  “The biggest share of the growing region in South America
has adequate moisture for crop development the next few weeks,”
McCambridge said. “The dry areas are shrinking.”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, followed by soybeans at $31.8 billion, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  