-- Spain Slashes Prices 45% for New Ground-Based Solar Plants, 5% for Homes
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2010-11-19T16:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/spain-slashes-prices-45-for-new-ground-based-solar-plants-5-for-homes.html
Spain reduced subsidies for new
solar-power projects while backing away from plans to impose
cuts on existing generators after owners threatened lawsuits.  The government cut the above-market price to be earned by
new ground-based photovoltaic plants by 45 percent in a Royal
Decree, the Industry Ministry said today in a statement. Solar-
panel installations on home roofs will make 5 percent less.  The decree may spare Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero ’s administration from legal action by plant owners
claiming as much as 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) in damages
while leaving him still struggling to plug a financial hole in
the Spanish electricity system, which has delayed collecting
about 14 billion euros of consumer bills.  “This is the only way the government could avoid a great
controversy,” said Antonio Vazquez-Guillen, a partner at Allen
& Overy in Madrid who represents solar plant owners. “This is a
very good ruling for the photovoltaic industry.”  The only alteration for existing plants outlined in the
brief statement by the government is for subsidies to expire
after 25 years rather than be lowered under the previous law.  Photovoltaic plant developers have lobbied the government
for months to honor earlier the laws that guaranteed above-
market rates for 25 years. Industry Minister Miguel Sebastian in
June told executives he intended to cut subsidies to existing
plants by almost 40 percent, according to Photovoltaic Industry
Association Chairman  Javier Anta , who attended the meeting.  Restricting Hours  Just last month, Antonio Hernandez, general director of
energy policy at the Madrid-based Industry Ministry said the
government was likely to restrict the number of hours during
which existing generators may earn above-market prices.  The government is looking for ways to reduce the cost of
power for the Spanish grid so that it can close the shortfall in
revenue the system generates without boosting prices for
consumers ahead of a general election to be held by May 2012.  Annual subsidies for renewable power, which reached about 5
billion euros last year, have helped push the cost of delivering
electricity to Spanish homes above the revenue from consumers
each year since 2005 under the country’s system of government-
controlled prices. The country’s more than 50,000 solar-panel
installations earned more than half of the subsidies while
generating 11 percent of its emission-free power.  Utilities such as  Iberdrola SA  and  Endesa SA  make up the
shortfall by lending money to the electricity system, increasing
their indebtedness. Subsidies for renewable energy account for
much of the so-called tariff deficit which the government is
legally obliged to eliminate by 2013.  The cuts for new plants will reduce the costs of the
Spanish electricity system by an average 200 million euros
annually over the next three years, the ministry said in today’s
press release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  