-- U.S. Stocks Fluctuate as Corporate Profits Offset China Concern
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-11-19T21:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/stocks-in-u-s-fluctuate-as-earnings-offset-concerns-about-slowing-growth.html
U.S. stocks advanced, sending the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  up for a third day, as higher-than-
estimated profit at Dell Inc. and a dividend increase at Nike
Inc. overshadowed concern China’s steps to slow inflation will
stifle global economic growth.  Dell , the world’s third-largest supplier of personal
computers, rallied 1.7 percent as lower component prices boosted
profitability.  Nike , the largest maker of athletic shoes, gained
4.1 percent after boosting its quarterly payout to 31 cents.
 Salesforce.com Inc. , the world’s biggest seller of online
customer-relationship management software, surged 18 percent
after its sales forecast topped estimates.  The  S&P 500  rose 0.3 percent to 1,199.73 at 4 p.m. in New
York, reversing a loss of as much as 0.6 percent. The gauge rose
less than 0.1 percent this week. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  gained 22.32 points, or 0.2 percent, to 11,203.55.  “If the recovery can continue to gain momentum and we can
avoid a systemic risk situation, stocks will continue to do
well,” said  Howard Ward , a fund manager at Gamco Investors
Inc.,  Mario Gabelli ’s firm that oversees $26 billion in Rye, New
York. “Earnings tend to grow over time. There will be a tsunami
of money flowing into stocks as more people acknowledge that the
bull market in bonds has come to an end.”  The  S&P 500  has risen 17 percent from its 2010 low on July
2 as the Federal Reserve prepared to increase asset purchases to
stimulate growth and as quarterly results at companies surpassed
analyst projections. The index had fallen the most in almost
three months on Nov. 16 amid speculation the debt crisis in
Europe is worsening and that China will act to slow its economy.  Earnings Scorecard  Earnings per share have topped analysts’ estimates at 76
percent of the 457 companies in the S&P 500 that have reported
quarterly results since Oct. 7, according to data compiled by
 Bloomberg . Net income rose 28 percent as sales increased 8.7
percent in the period.  Dell  rose 1.7 percent to $13.90. The third-largest supplier
of personal computers reported quarterly earnings excluding some
items of 45 cents a share as declining component prices resulted
in fatter margins. On average, the analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg estimated profit of 32 cents a share.  Nike  jumped 4.1 percent to $85.81, leading the S&P 500
Consumer Durables & Apparel Index up 1.3 percent for the biggest
gain among 24 industries. The world’s largest maker of athletic
shoes raised its quarterly dividend to 31 cents from 27 cents.  Salesforce.com  Salesforce.com  had the biggest gain in the S&P 500, surging
18 percent to $136.74. Revenue will be $447 million to $449
million in the quarter, which ends in January. Excluding stock-
based compensation and some other costs, profit will be 27 cents
to 28 cents a share. Analysts had projected sales of $424.6
million and per-share profit of 28 cents, the average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Loral Space & Communications Inc.  soared 17 percent to
$79.23. Canadian satellite firm Telesat Holdings Inc., co-owned
by Loral, hired three financial advisers to help sell the
company in a deal that may be valued at $6 billion to $7
billion, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  U.S. stocks followed  European equities  lower earlier after
China ordered banks to set aside larger reserves for the fifth
time this year, draining cash from the financial system in the
world’s fastest-growing major economy. The ratio will increase
50 basis points starting Nov. 29, the central bank said on its
website today. The goal is to step up liquidity management and
“appropriately control” credit and loans, it said.  Ireland Concern  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  is edging toward accepting
a rescue package that may threaten the country’s low-tax
policies and put voters on the hook to repay loans the central
bank says may be worth “tens of billions” of euros. Officials
from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund are
in Dublin to assess the books of the country’s banks.  “It’s still a risk-on, risk-off story,” said  Hayes Miller , the Boston-based head of asset allocation in North
America at Baring Asset Management, which oversees about $50.6
billion. “There’s heightened awareness of inflationary
pressures within emerging markets. The worry is that any kind of
tightening may have unintended consequences. Any piece of data
is going to be scrutinized heavily.”  This month’s options on stocks and indexes expired today,
adding to price swings, according to  Jeff Saut , chief investment
strategist at Raymond James & Associates, which manages $240
billion in St. Petersburg, Florida.
      Autodesk Inc.  had the biggest decline in the S&P 500,
falling 6.9 percent to $33.77. The maker of software used in
bridge design and film special effects forecast annual earnings
excluding some items of $1.30 a share at most. That’s lower than
the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey of $1.31.  Intuit Inc.  slid 6.8 percent to $44.93. The provider of tax
and personal-finance software forecast second-quarter adjusted
profit of 40 cents a share at most. The average analyst
prediction in a Bloomberg survey was for earnings of 45 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 