-- Sugar May Gain Next Week on Potential Export Limits in India, Survey Shows
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-11-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/sugar-may-gain-next-week-on-potential-export-limits-in-india-survey-shows.html
Sugar futures may rise on concerns
that India, the second-biggest cane grower, may restrict exports
to boost domestic inventories, according to a survey.  Seven of 10 traders, analysts and brokers surveyed by
Bloomberg News said raw sugar traded in New York will advance
next week. One predicted that prices will fall, and two
estimated little change. Raw sugar rose 6.3 percent to 28.15
cents a pound yesterday on ICE Futures U.S. in New York, the
biggest gain for a most-active contract in six weeks.  “India has been what’s spooked the market,” said  Jimmy Tintle , an analyst at Transworld Futures in Tampa, Florida.
“They can’t make up their mind on what they’re going to
export,” Tintle said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Earlier this month, prices surged to a 29-year high on
mounting concern that supplies from Brazil and India won’t meet
demand. Brazil is the world’s largest grower.  India will be “cautious” on ending export limitations to
ensure domestic supplies are adequate, K.V. Thomas, a junior
farm minister, said on Nov. 15. “We will have good production
for the next 20 months, but there may be a problem thereafter,”
he told reporters in New Delhi.  India probably will produce 23.27 million metric tons in
the year that began Oct. 1, 8.7 percent less than predicted by
industry groups, according to data from farmers interviewed by
SGS SA for Bloomberg. India’s government will decide on ending
shipment limits after Nov. 21, Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  said
last week.  ‘Deficit Forecasts’  “The sugar market should begin to recover an air of
fundamental stability, based on deficit forecasts,”  Michael McDougall , a senior vice president at Newedge USA in New York
said, said in a note dated Nov. 17.  Seven of 10 survey respondents said white sugar traded on
London’s Liffe exchange will gain, one forecast it will drop,
and two predicted little change. Yesterday, refined sugar rose
as much as 7.7 percent to $722.10 a ton on NYSE Liffe, the
highest in a week.  White sugar’s premium over raw sweetener probably will
widen, according to five of 10 people surveyed. Two estimated it
will narrow, and three forecast little change.  In the attached chart, red bars are derived by subtracting
bearish forecasts from bullish estimates for raw sugar, with
readings above zero signaling that most respondents expect
higher prices. The green line shows raw-sugar prices, and the
blue line shows white sugar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  