-- Tsunami Survivor Petra Nemcova Aids Kids With Happy Hearts Gala
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2010-11-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/supermodel-nemcova-tsunami-survivor-helps-kids-with-happy-hearts-gala.html
The 2004 tsunami that devastated
countries around the Indian Ocean killed model  Petra Nemcova ’s
fiance and photographer, Simon Atlee, and left her immobile in a
hospital with her pelvis broken in four places. She had a lot of
time to think about the victims.  “When the tsunami happened, I wanted to help in any
possible way,” said Nemcova, 31, who had been swept from her
hotel room in Phuket, Thailand, when the massive wave hit.  In 2006, she started  Happy Hearts Fund , a nonprofit focused
on rapidly rebuilding schools in disaster-stricken areas. The
first project was rebuilding and expanding the  Chao Thai Mai
School  in Thailand.  “If children aren’t able to go school, that doesn’t allow
for healing and growth,” said Nemcova, Happy Hearts’ president
and chairman in an interview. Children know education is “their
ticket to a brighter future.”  Happy Hearts has raised more than $10 million for school
supplies and rebuilding programs in about a dozen countries
including Peru, Sri Lanka and Haiti. Nemcova is using her star
power to lure patrons to “A Magical Adventure,” a Thai-themed
and child-friendly fundraiser tomorrow night to help her
nonprofit expand its mission. Manhattan’s  Metropolitan Pavilion 
will be turned into a small theme park with an elephant
environment (without the animals), floating river market, temple
and music stage.  Damien Hirst ’s “St. Elmo’s Fire,” a multicolored skeleton
sculpture, will be among the lots in a silent auction. Notable
guests include  the Edge  ( David Evans ) of the rock band U2, actor
and former fashion model  Jason Lewis  (HBO’s “Sex in the City”)
and supermodels Veronica Varekova and Karolina Kurkova.  Kingdom Honored  The evening’s honorees include the Kingdom of Thailand and
lawyer Edith Lutnick, executive director of the Cantor
Fitzgerald Relief Fund, which has aided those affected by 9/11
and Hurricane Katrina as well as other charities.  Grammy Award-winning producer and composer  Quincy Jones 
will receive Happy Hearts’ lifetime achievement award for his
philanthropy. ING Latin America, which is partnering with Happy
Hearts to build schools in Mexico, will also be honored. Singer
and actor  Jennifer Hudson  and rapper  John Forte  will perform.  “Quincy has inspired so many individuals and so many
decision makers to do great things for others on so many
different levels,” Nemcova said.  Born in the Czech Republic, Nemcova was spotted by a talent
scout and began a modeling career that eventually landed her on
the cover of Sports Illustrated’s 2003 swimsuit issue.  After launching her charity, she hired Phillip Caputo, a
corporate lawyer with nonprofit experience, in 2007 to serve as
Happy Hearts’ executive director. Caputo had set up the  Hello
Friend/Ennis William Cosby Foundation  in 1997 in honor of the
slain son of actor Bill Cosby and his wife, Camille. The
foundation aids those with learning disabilities.  Russell Simmons  Happy Hearts now has 10 full-time staffers and part-time
consultants and a $1.5 million budget. Its advisory board
includes philanthropist  Russell Simmons , chairman and chief
executive officer of Rush Communications; Aronsson Group LLC
founder  Jeffry Aronsson ; former Yale University President Benno
C. Schmidt Jr.; and Simon de Pury, chairman of the auction house
 Phillips de Pury & Co.   “I just so wanted to stay in Thailand and rebuild,”
Nemcova said. “I had skills because my father was a builder,
but I knew I could provide more help by coming back to New
York.”  Happy Hearts Fund’s “A Magical Adventure” is tomorrow at
the Metropolitan Pavilion, 125 W. 18th Street in Manhattan, from
6 p.m. to 10 p.m. Information: +1-212-216-3406 or
 http://www.happyheartsfund.org/donate .  To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 