-- U.S. Screening All Airline Cargo Not Feasible, Napolitano Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2010-11-19T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/u-s-screening-all-airline-cargo-not-feasible-napolitano-says.html
Procedures put in place after a
foiled bomb plot have bolstered security better than an
infeasible bill that would require all packages on air-cargo
planes to be screened, Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  said.  The screening mandate is “an easy thing to say, but it’s
probably not the best way to go,” Napolitano said in an
interview airing this weekend on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt .” “Cargo is infinitely more
complicated and comes in infinitely more shapes and sizes” than
passengers, she said.  Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, on
Nov. 16  introduced  a bill with the screening requirement. Air
cargo companies have resisted such screening, saying it hinders
commerce. In 2007, Congress passed legislation co-sponsored by
Markey that mandates 100 percent screening of all packages on
passenger airlines.  A similar law covering cargo planes would “require some
hundreds of treaties to be negotiated” so that foreign
governments would allow the screening, Napolitano said.  She expressed some skepticism about a proposal by
Representative  John Mica , a Florida Republican set to become
chairman of the House  Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee , to  privatize  airport security.  Napolitano said she was not familiar with the specifics of
Mica’s plan. “We have one consistent security regime in the
aviation environment for the United States,” she said.  Shortly after two bombs that originated in Yemen were
discovered on Oct. 29, the U.S. adopted new security measures.
They included barring “high risk cargo” from passenger planes
flying to the U.S. and prohibiting ink cartridges weighing more
than a pound (0.45 kilogram) in carry-on and checked baggage.  The bombs, which were found in Dubai and the U.K., were
contained in printer cartridges.  U.S. officials have said they suspect Ibrahim Hassan al-
Asiri, a master bomb-maker, of producing the explosives and that
al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, an offshoot of the group
responsible for the Sept. 11 attacks, was behind the plot.  “AQAP is very robust right now,” Napolitano said. She
described Yemen “as an area of concern, but not the exclusive
area of concern.”  AQAP also is thought by U.S. officials to have helped  Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab , a Nigerian who is accused of attempting to
take down a  Northwest Airlines  jet with an underwear bomb as the
plane approached Detroit on Dec. 25.  Hope on Immigration  In the interview, Napolitano said that, even with the
midterm election victories of some anti-immigration Republicans,
Congress may still pass legislation that would allow more
immigrants to work temporarily in the U.S.  Business and law-enforcement groups may help push a bill
forward “when you combine them with the other advocacy groups,
the faith-based community that’s advocating for reform,” she
said.  Some Republicans have criticized the administration of
President  Barack Obama  for not doing more to bolster border
enforcement and conduct workplace raids, a tactic used by the
administration of President  George W. Bush .  “That’s just plain not true,” said Napolitano, who was
governor of Arizona before joining the Obama administration.
“We’ve deported and removed from the country more people last
year than in any year in the past.”  Napolitano also said the  Department of Homeland Security  is
working on expanding its operations to help secure government
and commercial computer networks.  “We see this as an evolving area, and it will be key with
our interaction with the private sector, as well,” she said.  Many high-profile cyber attacks, such as one on  Google Inc. 
earlier this year, originated in China.  That doesn’t prove that the Chinese government, which has
denied any involvement in that disruption and others, had
anything to do with the attacks, Napolitano said.  Still, “I do know we’ve had a number of attacks from
China,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  