-- U.S. Stocks Slide on China Reserves; Disney, BofA Decline, Nike Advances
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-11-19T17:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/u-s-index-futures-fluctuate-aid-ireland-bailout-dell-jumps-intuit-falls.html
U.S. stocks fell, extending a second
straight weekly drop for benchmark indexes, as China ordered
banks to raise reserves in an effort to limit inflation,
prompting speculation that the measure could eventually slow
global economic growth.  Walt Disney Co. and Bank of America Corp. led the declines
in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, dropping at least 1.1
percent. Keycorp slumped 1.8 percent after announcing changes in
management.  Intuit Inc.  lost 5.8 percent after its earnings
forecast missed estimates. Nike Inc. rallied 3.9 percent after
raising its dividend.  The  S&P 500  slipped 0.2 percent to 1,194.90 at 12:13 p.m.
in New York, after earlier falling as much as 0.6 percent. The
gauge jumped 1.5 percent yesterday as speculation grew that
Ireland will accept a bailout and reports on manufacturing and
jobless claims bolstered optimism in the economy. The  Dow 
retreated 16.84 points, or 0.2 percent to 11,164.39.  “There’s heightened awareness of inflationary pressures
within emerging markets,” said  Hayes Miller , the Boston-based
head of asset allocation in North America at Baring Asset
Management, which oversees about $50.6 billion. “The worry is
that any kind of tightening may have unintended consequences.
Any piece of data in the mosaic of inflation in emerging markets
is going to be scrutinized heavily. It’s still a risk-on, risk-
off story.”  The S&P 500 has risen 17 percent since July 2 as the
Federal Reserve increased its program of asset purchases to
stimulate growth and as companies reported better-than-estimated
profits. The index tumbled by the most in almost three months on
Nov. 16 amid speculation the debt crisis in Europe is worsening
and that China will act to slow its economy.  Draining Cash  U.S. equity index futures followed European shares lower
after China ordered banks to set aside larger reserves for the
fifth time this year, draining cash from the financial system in
the world’s fastest-growing major economy. The ratio will
increase 50 basis points starting Nov. 29, the central bank said
on its website today. The aim is to step up liquidity management
and “appropriately control” credit and loans, it said.  Walt Disney dropped 1.5 percent to $37.03. Bank of America
fell 1.1 percent to $11.57.  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  is edging toward accepting
a rescue package that may threaten the country’s low-tax
policies and put voters on the hook to repay loans the central
bank says may be worth “tens of billions” of euros. Officials
from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund are
in Dublin to assess the books of the country’s banks.  Allied Arish  Stocks extended declines after Allied Irish Banks Plc,
Ireland’s second-biggest bank, said it increased its reliance on
funding from the European Central Bank and other monetary
authorities after being frozen out of wholesale markets.  “The Allied Irish headlines are really eye-catching,”
said  Art Hogan , chief market analyst at New York- based
Jefferies Group Inc. “There’s always a knee-jerk reaction every
time you start hearing about how much capital is going to be
needed. There’s systemic fear in the banking industry. There’s
also concern about China. We don’t have any U.S. economic data
today. So, we’re sort of in uncharted territory.”  KeyCorp slumped 2.7 percent to $7.64. Ohio’s second-largest
bank said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Henry L. Meyer 
will retire in May and  Beth Mooney , currently vice chair of the
bank and head of the lender’s community banking business, will
replace him.  Intuit, the provider of tax and personal-finance software,
dropped 5.6 percent to $45.50 after forecasting fiscal second-
quarter profit excluding some items of 40 cents a share at most.
The average analyst prediction in a Bloomberg survey was for
earnings of 45 cents.  Nike jumped 3.9 percent to $85.66, leading the S&P 500
Consumer Durables & Apparel Index to the biggest gain among 24
industries. The world’s largest maker of athletic shoes raised
its quarterly dividend to 31 cents from 27 cents. On average,
the analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated a quarterly
dividend of 29 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 