-- CFTC Proposes 15-Minute Delay on Swap Block Reporting
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2010-11-19T21:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/u-s-regulators-consider-15-minute-delay-in-swaps-block-trades.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission proposed a 15-minute delay for reporting prices of
block trades of standardized swaps available on exchanges or so-
called swap execution facilities.  CFTC commissioners voted 3-2 today to seek  comment  on the
proposal, part of the agency’s rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank
law, that aims to expand transparency while giving time for
large trades to be hedged. The agency is also seeking comment on
how long to allow for delays in reporting on customized swaps.  The CFTC and the Securities and Exchange Commission are
leading U.S. efforts to revamp oversight of the  $583 trillion
over-the-counter derivatives  market after largely unregulated
trading complicated efforts to resolve the 2008 credit crisis.
The proposal approved today would require reporting on the type
of swap contract, the underlying asset class and commodity, the
tenor of the swap and other information, the CFTC said.  “Wall Street benefits by information advantages, and they
will send us hundreds if not thousands of comments that we’re
hurting liquidity,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said. “And I
feel it in my core that we’re helping liquidity.” Commissioners
 Jill Sommers  and  Scott O’Malia  voted against the proposal.  The International  Swaps and Derivatives Association , an
industry trade group, has told the CFTC that banks need adequate
time to hedge or lay off risk related to block swap trades.  ‘Viable Option’  “For block trading to be a viable option, all trades that
are of a certain size or that are characterized by lower
liquidity must benefit from appropriate delays before being made
public to enable the liquidity provider or risk intermediary to
lay-off the associated risk without being ambushed in the
market,” ISDA said in an  Oct. 1 letter  to the CFTC and SEC.  The association represents banks such as JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG.  O’Malia said the proposal repeated the “vague” direction
from Congress about the required timeframe for reporting and
“does not provide the marketplace any further clarity.”  The measure wouldn’t require specific price data for swaps
with notional values greater than $250 million. The proposal
would require those swaps to be reported only as greater than
$250 million.  For trades executed normally on a swap-execution facility
or exchange, or transactions that aren’t required to be cleared,
price and other information would be reported by the trading
facility or swap data repository “as soon as technologically
practicable.”  Distribution Test  The agency would define block trades according to two
tests. A “distribution test” would define them as larger than
95 percent of transactions in the same category of swaps in the
preceding calendar year. A “social size multiple test” would
define them as those five times the largest of the mean, median
and mode of transaction sizes for the same category of swaps in
the previous calendar year.  The minimum size would be the larger of the two tests, the
commission said. The CFTC is seeking comment on whether a third
test should apply so that no more than one-tenth of transactions
in a specific category would qualify as block trades.  The CFTC also voted to propose rules on registration and
data-keeping requirements for swap-data repositories and the
protection of collateral in cleared and uncleared swaps. The SEC
voted to propose similar rules today.  The commission voted unanimously to ask the public for
comment about whether third-party data providers or aggregators
would need to be registered with the CFTC as swap data
repositories.  Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News, sells financial and
legal information and trading systems.  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial instruments
used to hedge risks or for speculation. They’re derived from
stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to
specific events like changes in the weather or interest rates.
Options and futures are the most common types of derivatives.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 