-- TSA Chief Says Airline Pilots to Get Faster Screening
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-11-19T22:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/u-s-airline-pilots-will-be-exempted-from-physical-checks-tsa-chief-says.html
U.S. airline pilots will be exempted
from physical checks at airport security checkpoints so federal
screeners can better focus on passengers, the  Transportation
Security Administration  chief said.  Pilots starting next year will be able to move through
checkpoints with proof of identity,  John Pistole , who leads the
agency, said in an interview today at Bloomberg’s office in
Washington. He said he is in talks with flight attendants about
similar exemptions.  “This one seemed to jump out as a common-sense issue,”
Pistole said. “Why don’t we trust pilots who are literally in
charge of the aircraft?”  The plan, which Pistole said will be rolled out in next
year’s first quarter, may help ease checkpoint congestion, which
has become a concern as consumers prepare to travel for next
week’s Thanksgiving holiday in the U.S.  Pilots have sought faster checks for years and intensified
efforts in recent weeks after the agency had said they would be
subject to body scans and pat-downs as part of new security
procedures at airports.  John Prater , president of the Air Line Pilots Association,
said in an interview that he has asked his 53,000 members if
they would be willing to front the costs to get the program
implemented and then work to get reimbursed by the government or
carriers. The program will cost $10 million a year, he said.  Removing an Irritant  Today’s announcement is “more than just good news. This is
a sign that the administration has recognized that maybe one-
size screening for everyone is not the way to go,” said
Prater, whose crew union is the world’s largest.  “It removes one of the irritants for the flight crews and
the passengers -- none of us likes cutting to the front of the
line,” Prater said.  The Association of Professional Flight Attendants said it
is “extremely disappointed” that the measures weren’t
implemented for its members at the same time. The union, which
represents attendants at  AMR Corp. ’s American Airlines, said it
has been working with the carrier’s security department. The
union and the airline have proposed a solution to the TSA, said
Jeff Pharr, a spokesman for the union.  Flight Attendant Screenings  “APFA will not stop until all crewmembers are included,”
the association said in a statement.  The Air Transport Association, the Washington-based trade
group for large U.S. carriers, doesn’t support or oppose the
plan, said  David Castelveter , a spokesman.  “That’s a TSA decision that they are working on with the
unions,” he said. Association members include  Southwest
Airlines Co.  and  US Airways Group Inc .  Pistole ordered the more-thorough checkpoint procedures
nationwide this month. He says they are necessary to ensure that
all passengers are screened and to avoid an attack such as the
one on Christmas last year. A Nigerian man with explosives
hidden in his underpants tried to blow up a jet as it landed in
Detroit.  Passengers and groups such as civil liberties organization
Electronic Privacy Information Center and FlyersRights.org are
advocating a National Opt Out Day on Nov. 24 to protest the new
procedures.  Pistole and executives at his agency have been meeting with
the unions and airlines in recent weeks in anticipation of
today’s announcement exempting them from the new checks.  ‘Potential Terrorists’  With the change, “we save limited resources in terms of
who we are physically screening,” Pistole said in the
interview. The approach will “allow us to pay more attention to
those potential terrorists.”  Only pilots in uniform traveling on airline business can
use the expedited screening, the agency said in a statement.
They initially would not face biometric checks. Pilots would use
airline-issued passes and have identities confirmed by a
computer system yet to be chosen, Pistole said.  Pistole is being “realistic” in making the change, said
 Douglas R. Laird , a former Northwest Airlines security chief and
president of Laird & Associates Inc., a consulting firm in Reno,
Nevada. “Pilots are not the threat.”  Verifying a pilot’s identity at checkpoints with a computer
photograph is as effective as a biometric identification, Laird
said. “I certainly don’t see a problem with it,” he said.  The security agency and largest pilots’ union have jointly
tested a similar program at airports in Baltimore, Pittsburgh
and Columbia, South Carolina, over the past two years.  Nationwide Standard  The airlines and pilots still need to agree on which
software system they will use, with the security agency
insisting it be set to the same standard nationwide, Pistole
said. “There’s a number of details we’re still working through,
in terms of a small cost that would be involved,” he said.  All of the program’s costs will be in computer and
Internet-related charges, said Prater of the Air Line Pilots
Association. Screeners will check pilot identifications, so
there are no additional labor costs, he said.  “The pilot unions believe it should either be government
funded as part of security procedures or employers should defray
the expenses,” he said.  Pilots will see “immediate modifications” in their
checkpoint screening while the program is being phased in,
according to the TSA statement, which didn’t describe those
changes.  “We look forward to implementing a workable system for
pilots,” said  Sam Mayer , an American Airlines crew member and
spokesman for the Allied Pilots Association, which represents
about 9,600 union members at American Airlines. “We’re happy
that they are moving,” he said of the security agency.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 