-- U.S. Fliers May See Security Fees Rise, Pistole Says
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2010-11-19T21:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/u-s-airlines-fliers-may-see-security-fees-rise-pistole-says.html
An increase in U.S. airline security
fees is among “strong possibilities” being considered to pay
for higher costs of detecting terrorist threats, the
 Transportation Security Administration  chief said.  “There are some different fees being discussed,”  John Pistole , who leads the agency, said in an interview today at
Bloomberg’s office in Washington. The $2.50-a-passenger fee now
added to ticket prices is “obviously a significant source of
revenue for providing security services. That is one of those
strong possibilities.”  Transportation security officials are seeking ways to raise
revenue after expediting deployment of full-body scanners at
U.S. airports. The agency acted after a 23-year-old Nigerian man
attempted to ignite explosives in his underwear on a Detroit-
bound flight on Christmas Day last year.  President  Barack Obama’s  Department of Homeland Security
last year proposed increasing the security fee on tickets by $1
annually for three years, starting in fiscal 2012. Airline
industry groups opposed the move, and Congress never acted on
it. Pistole said it was premature to discuss specifics of an
increase the administration may seek from Congress in February.  Carrier Opposition  U.S. carriers would again oppose raising the fee, said
 David Castelveter , a spokesman for the  Air Transport
Association , a Washington-based trade group whose members
include  Delta Air Lines Inc.  and AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines .  “Aviation security should be a government-funded
responsibility, not one imposed on airlines and passengers,”
Castelveter said in an interview.  Travelers and groups such as the Electronic Privacy
Information Center, a Washington-based civil-liberties
organization, have voiced privacy concerns about use of the
scanners and pat-down body searches. The two security measures
have drawn more attention since the Oct. 29 discovery of an air-
cargo bomb plot.  Pistole said he hopes the agency can implement full-body
scanners that show a less graphic image within a year or two.
The equipment currently in use records a “high number” of
false positives, he said.  “I want to make sure it works” before the scanner is
placed in airports, he said.  The U.S. is providing scanners to some countries that lack
the political will or budget to buy them, the TSA chief said.  Pistole said the administration is also making inroads with
businesses on some security issues. In the next 30 days, the
Obama administration will forge an agreement with air-cargo
industry officials to send lists describing the contents of
packages to U.S. security officials earlier than the current
requirement, which is four hours prior to landing, he said.  “I’m hoping we would have something worked out with
industry in terms of what’s practical and what makes sense from
a risk assessment for us,” Pistole said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 