-- Municipal-Bond Funds Have Biggest Withdrawals Since 1992 on Issuer Outlook
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-11-19T17:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/municipal-bond-funds-drop-as-post-election-issuer-outlook-spooks-investors.html
Investors withdrew the most in
almost 19 years from open-end U.S. municipal-bond funds in the
week ended Nov. 17 as concern increased that cities’ and states’
finances are deteriorating.  Municipal funds lost $3 billion in redemptions in the week,
the most since the week ending Jan. 8, 1992, according to Tom
Roseen, senior analyst at research firm Lipper FMI. The funds
had added $34 million in the previous week, Roseen said.  “It’s become a negative-feedback loop,”  Thomas Metzold ,
co-director of municipal investments at Boston-based  Eaton Vance
Corp ., said yesterday in a telephone interview. “Funds have to
sell bonds to meet redemptions, putting pressure on prices,
causing more redemptions.”  Muni-bond fund prices have plunged an average 3.7 percent
in the past month amid concern about renewed inflation, a flood
of supply from issuers and speculation that Congressional
Republicans, after winning control of the U.S. House in the Nov.
2 midterm elections, will block aid to cities and states.  Yields on top-rated tax-exempt bonds due in 10 years jumped
23 basis points on Nov. 17, the biggest gain since March 2009. A
basis point is one-hundredth of a percent. The bond yields
 climbed to 3 percent  yesterday, a seven-month high, according to
a Bloomberg Valuation index.  “This began once the elections were completed and it was
evident Republicans would have a majority in the House of
Representatives,” Metzold said.  Build America  The voting results cast uncertainty over the level of
federal support states and cities will get in 2011 and over the
prospects for an extension of the Build America Bonds program,
he said.  The program, set to expire Dec. 31, typically provides a 35
percent subsidy on interest payments for issuers of taxable muni
bonds. More than $150 billion in Build America Bonds had been
 issued  as of Oct. 31, according to the Treasury Department.  Anticipation of its expiration, which could increase the
supply of traditional tax-exempt muni bonds, has helped push
prices down, Metzold said.  Of 610 open-end muni funds tracked by Bloomberg, three had
a positive return in the past month. California issuers fell the
most, dropping an average of 5 percent in the month ended Nov.
18, data from Morningstar Inc. show.  The $30.8 billion  Vanguard Intermediate-Term Tax-Exempt
Fund , the largest municipal bond fund, fell 3 percent in the
month ended Nov. 18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
gained 2.6 percent this year.  Closed-End Funds  Closed-end municipal-bond funds declined an average of 6.4
percent in the month through Nov. 18, according to Morningstar.
Their deeper loss reflects their greater use of leverage and
their ability to trade at a discount or premium to net-asset
values.  The funds, on average, traded at a 0.55 percent premium to
their net-asset values on Oct. 15, according to  Cecilia Gondor ,
a closed-end fund analyst at Thomas J Herzfeld Advisors Inc. in
Miami. That fell to 0.36 percent on Nov. 17.  Closed-end muni funds extended their losses yesterday. The
 Nuveen Municipal Closed-End Index  declined 1 percent yesterday
and 7.4 percent in the past month. The $321.4 million  Pimco
Municipal Income Fund III  dropped 4.1 percent yesterday and 9.8
percent in the last month, and the $190.6 million  Nuveen
Municipal High Income Opportunity Fund 2  fell 3.2 percent
yesterday and 9.5 percent for the month.  Closed-end funds issue a fixed amount of shares that trade
on an exchange. When investors exit, they sell via the exchange,
as opposed to open-end shareholders, who redeem shares at net-
asset value with the fund.  Reassuring Investors  Municipal bond funds received $35 billion in deposits this
year before last week’s withdrawals. The funds held $515 billion
at the end of September, according to the ICI.  Eaton Vance and Western Asset Management, a unit of
Baltimore’s  Legg Mason Inc ., have rushed to reassure clients in
an attempt to prevent further withdrawals.  “This is a cash-flow driven event, it’s not a credit
event,”  Joseph P. Deane , a muni-fund manager for Pasadena,
California-based Western Asset Management, said yesterday in a
conference call with financial advisers. “The market is
incredibly cheap.”  Deane runs the $5.7 billion  Legg Mason Western Asset
Managed Municipals Fund , part of Western’s $38 billion in muni-
bond assets. It dropped 4.5 percent in the past month.  Stephen Ban, a managing director at Chicago-based Nuveen
Asset Management, said the Federal Reserve’s plan to buy $600
billion in assets as part of a monetary-stimulus effort was also
depressing muni-bond prices.  Fed Easing  “Treasury rates are rising and munis have taken their cue
from that on top of the supply overhang” that the Build America
Bond program’s expiration may create, Ban said.  Nuveen, a unit of private-equity firm Madison Dearborn
Partners LLC, manages $73 billion in municipal-bond assets,
including those in open-end and closed-end funds.  Along with Deane and Metzold, he called the current
conditions a buying opportunity.  “I put my entire year-end bonus in my fund yesterday,”
Metzold said, referring to the $5.8 billion  Eaton Vance National
Municipal Income Fund . The fund lost 8.2 percent in the past
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 