-- Virgin Media Won't Expand High-Speed Network to Get Government Funding
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-19T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/virgin-media-won-t-expand-network-to-get-government-funding.html
Virgin Media Inc.,  the U.K.’s
second-largest pay-television company, won’t direct its high-
speed broadband network into rural areas based on state backing
alone.  “We are not going to be driven by government funding,”
Chief Financial Officer  Eamonn O’Hare  said today at a Morgan
Stanley conference in Barcelona, Spain. Virgin is considering
using  BT Group Plc ’s telephone poles to extend its coverage and
is looking at using some of the electricity grid to run fiber.  The U.K. government is likely to offer about 800 million
pounds ($1.29 billion) in funding to help roll out a high-speed
broadband network into rural areas, BT said Nov. 17. The money
may become available in 2012, the company said.  BT, the U.K.’s largest broadband company, will bid for the
funds to extend its fiber network into more than 90 percent of
U.K. premises, according to Chief Executive Officer  Ian Livingston . All bidders should offer the network to rivals on a
wholesale basis, Livingston said at the conference.  The government’s increased funding commitment “potentially
provides a framework for step-changing superfast broadband
investment,” Virgin Media said in an e-mailed statement. “But
the devil will be in the detail of how the money is spent and
exactly what services it delivers. The UK will be missing an
opportunity if this subsidy is simply subsumed into extending
BT’s fiber to the cabinet roll-out.”  Virgin Media’s third-quarter earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation, amortization and other charges rose 11
percent as subscribers opted for its faster and more expensive
broadband products, the company said last month.  Subscribers are subscribing to faster broadband speeds,
which pushed up average cable revenue per user by 3.7 percent in
the quarter. The company is preparing to start its 100 megabits-
per-second broadband at the end of the year, and said it will
complete the roll-out by the middle of 2012.  O’Hare also said today the proposed YouView Internet-
connected television platform, from BT and the British
Broadcasting Corp., may benefit Virgin Media. “We welcome it if
it’s going to drive more sophisticated content into the home.”  Virgin Media had complained to regulator Ofcom that the
venture’s partners might withhold content from competing
platforms.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc is the U.K.’s biggest
pay-TV provider.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in Barcelona via 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 