-- Wells Fargo Pays Citigroup $100 Million Over Wachovia
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-19T23:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/wells-fargo-to-pay-citigroup-100-million-to-settle-wachovia-takeover-case.html
Wells Fargo & Co.  agreed to pay $100
million for scuttling  Citigroup Inc. ’s takeover of Wachovia
Corp. with a higher bid during the depths of the financial
crisis.  The payment to New York-based Citigroup resolves “all
claims related to this dispute,” Citigroup and San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo said today in a joint statement.  Citigroup was seeking as much as $80 billion in damages
after alleging breach of contract in its 2008 deal to acquire
Wachovia. Wells Fargo has reported more than $20 billion in
profits since it bought the Charlotte, North Carolina-based
company, while adding about $450 billion in deposits and
Wachovia’s branch network along the East Coast.  “You could look at it as being the equivalent of a breakup
fee,” said  Bert Ely , a banking consultant based in Alexandria,
Virginia. “That’s not an unreasonable way to do it because in
effect Citi didn’t get the deal.”  Wells Fargo paid $12.7 billion in 2008 for the entirety of
Wachovia, trumping Citigroup’s $2.16 billion bid for the
lender’s banking operations in a proposal that included backing
from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Wells Fargo’s purchase,
originally for $15.1 billion, required no FDIC guarantees.  Citigroup later needed a $45 billion government bailout and
is still partly owned by taxpayers. Wells Fargo accepted $25
billion in U.S. rescue funds that it has since repaid.  ‘Unjust Enrichment’  Citigroup named Wachovia and Wells Fargo in a lawsuit
alleging breach of exclusive contract and interference,
according to company  filings . In one complaint, the bank sought
$20 billion in compensatory damages, $20 billion in “unjust
enrichment damages” and $40 billion in punitive damages,
according to the filings.  “We are glad to put this matter behind us, and we look
forward to our two institutions working together constructively
in the future,” Wells Fargo said in the statement.  Wachovia Chief Executive Officer  Robert Steel  was told by
the FDIC in September 2008 that his bank’s situation posed a
“systemic risk” to the financial system and that he should
begin talks with Citigroup, Steel said earlier this year in
testimony to a panel probing the bank’s near collapse.  Citigroup and Wachovia signed a Sept. 29 agreement to join
operations, which was trumped less than a week later by Wells
Fargo’s bid. Wells Fargo announced the purchase of Wachovia on
Oct. 3, three days before Citigroup’s agreement was set to
expire, according to Wells Fargo’s year-end 2008 filing.
Citigroup filed suit the next day and dropped its bid on Oct. 9.  “The settlement amount is trivial, I think, a very modest,
low amount relative to what Citi was claiming in damages,” said
 Bill Bradway , the founder of banking consultants Bradway
Research LLC. “$100 million in the big scheme of things for
Wells is more or less a drop in the bucket.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Donal Griffin  in Washington at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
 Dakin Campbell  in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 