-- Wheat Futures Drop in Chicago on Speculation of Slowing World Grain Demand
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-11-19T20:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/wheat-futures-drop-in-chicgao-on-speculation-of-slowing-world-grain-demand.html
Wheat futures fell for the first
time in three days on speculation that global demand for food
and raw materials will shrink as China takes steps to slow
growth.  China, the world’s second-biggest economy, ordered banks to
set aside more reserves, draining cash from the financial
system, to limit the fastest inflation in two years. The country
may import less corn and soybeans, leaving more left in the U.S.
to compete with wheat, said  Frank Cholly Sr ., a senior market
strategist at Lind-Waldock. The Thomson/Reuters Jefferies CRB
Index of 19 raw materials dropped as much as 1.4 percent.  “With the Chinese raising reserve requirements and
continuing to put these price controls in, the market reacted a
bit negatively,” Cholly said from Chicago. “It seems to be
that if China is going to slow down, then the whole world slows
down.”  Wheat futures for March delivery fell 0.5 cent to settle at
$6.84 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade. The
commodity dropped 3.6 percent this week.  Earlier, futures rose as much as 1.8 percent as wet weather
harmed crops in Australia, improving prospects for exports from
the U.S., the world’s largest shipper.  Wheat Exports  U.S.  exporters  sold 943,444 metric tons in the week ended
Nov. 11, the most in eight weeks, the government said yesterday.
Too much rain this year in eastern Australia reduced crop
quality, said  Charlie Sernatinger , a vice president at ABN Amro
Clearing LLC. Parts of the country received more than 1 inch
(2.5 centimeters) of rain yesterday, according to T-Storm
Weather LLC.  “We’ve had two good weeks of export sales, and we’re going
to get another one next week,” Sernatinger said from Chicago.
“U.S. wheat is the cheapest wheat right now in general, so that
provides fundamental support for the market.”  Australia is expected to be the third-largest exporter of
wheat this year, after the U.S. and Canada. Russia was the
third-biggest last year, before the worst drought in 50 years
harmed crops.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  