-- Will Ferrell, Larry David Lose an $18 Million Claim Against JPMorgan Unit
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-11-19T03:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/will-ferrell-larry-david-lose-an-18-million-claim-against-jpmorgan-unit.html
A securities arbitration panel
rejected an $18 million claim by a group of investors including
actors  Will Ferrell  and  Larry David  against a unit of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. , ordering instead that they reimburse the bank for
more than $600,000 in legal costs.  The two, along with Ferrell’s wife, Viveca Paulin, and Los
Angeles business manager Matt Lichtenberg, filed a complaint
against J.P. Morgan Securities with the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. They said that the brokerage, originally a
component of Bear Stearns & Co. Inc., made unauthorized
investments in “preferred securities,” which the complaint
didn’t specify.  A three-member arbitration panel denied the claim “in its
entirety” Nov. 12, according to documents released by Finra.
The panel told the comedians’ group to pay $600,000 in J.P.
Morgan’s legal costs, adding $22,500 “for discovery abuse and
failure to comply with the forum’s discovery rules and
procedures.” The award documents said the group repeatedly
failed to produce required documentation quickly enough.  Ferrell is a former “Saturday Night Live” performer whose
movies include “Talladega Nights.” David was a co-creator of
the “Seinfeld” show who went on to star in his own series,
“Curb Your Enthusiasm.” David’s involvement in the arbitration
matter came through the David Living Trust, according to the
Finra documents.  The documents said Ferrell and the others accused J.P.
Morgan of engaging in “unauthorized and unsuitable purchases of
unspecified preferred securities with regard to their respective
accounts.”  J.P. Morgan declined comment on the decision. Lichtenberg
didn’t respond to a request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington, D.C. 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 