-- Yen Rallies Amid Concern China Will Raise Borrowing Costs to Cool Growth
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-11-19T06:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/yen-dollar-rise-versus-euro-on-bets-china-will-raise-rates-to-cool-growth.html
The yen strengthened for the first
time in three days against the euro on speculation China will
raise interest rates to curb  inflation , boosting demand for
safer assets.  Japan’s currency gained versus 15 of its 16 major
counterparts as analysts at nine banks surveyed this week by
Bloomberg News said the People’s Bank of China will add to last
month’s rate rise, the first since 2007, by the end of December.
The dollar headed for a second weekly advance versus the Swiss
franc on data forecast to show the U.S. economy expanded more in
the third quarter than the government initially reported.  “There’s talk that China’s central bank may hike rates as
soon as today, which seems to be weighing on risk appetite,”
said  Takashi Kudo , general manager of market information service
at NTT SmartTrade Inc., a unit of Nippon Telegraph & Telephone
Corp. in Tokyo. “This would probably be positive for safe-haven
currencies such as the yen and the dollar.”  The yen advanced to 113.81 per euro as of 3:19 p.m. in
Tokyo from 113.95 in New York yesterday, after earlier touching
114.13, the lowest level since Nov. 8. Japan’s currency was at
83.38 per dollar from 83.52 yesterday, when it reached 83.79,
the weakest since Oct. 5.  The dollar was at $1.3649 per euro from $1.3643. The
greenback bought 0.9937 francs from 0.9957 yesterday, when it
rose to 0.9998, the strongest since Sept. 21. The U.S. currency
has advanced 1.3 percent versus the franc this week.  Consumer Prices  Concern that China’s rising consumer prices, which surged
the most in two years in October, will undermine the economy
spurred Premier Wen Jiabao to hold a cabinet meeting on the
issue this week. China Securities Journal reported today
inflation in China may reach 3.8 percent in the fourth quarter,
citing estimates by the State Information Center.  “Every Friday there is always a chance that China is going
to do something,”  Qu Hongbin , co-head of Asian economic
research at HSBC Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, told Bloomberg
Television, indicating a PBOC announcement can’t be ruled out
for today. Given this month’s increase in bank reserve
requirement ratios, a boost in borrowing costs is more likely
next month, he said.  The yen advanced as the Shanghai Composite Index, which
tracks the bigger of China’s stock exchanges, dropped as much as
2.1 percent and futures for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell
0.1 percent.  The yen typically strengthens in times of financial turmoil
as Japan’s trade surplus means the nation does not have to rely
on overseas lenders. The dollar benefits as the world’s main
reserve currency.  U.S. GDP  The dollar traded near a six-week high against the yen as
economists surveyed by Bloomberg said U.S. gross domestic
product grew at a 2.4 percent annual rate in the third quarter,
compared with a 2 percent increase initially reported.  Treasury 10-year yields have risen seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 2.86 percent this week before the
Commerce Department’s GDP report due on Nov. 23.  “The surprising backup in U.S. yields is putting yen under
pressure,”  Calvin Tse , a currency strategist in London at
Morgan Stanley, wrote in a research note yesterday. “Dollar-yen
has a very robust correlation with U.S. rates.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the
euro, yen and pound, has risen 0.7 percent to 78.605 since Nov.
12, set for a second weekly gain.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the U.S.
central bank’s monetary stimulus will aid the world economy and
implicitly criticized China for keeping its currency weak.  Bernanke’s Speech  The best way to underpin the dollar and support the global
recovery “is through policies that lead to a resumption of
robust growth in a context of price stability in the United
States,” Bernanke said in prepared remarks to a European
Central Bank conference later today in Frankfurt. Countries that
undervalue their currencies may eventually inhibit growth around
the world and risk financial instability at home, he said.  The Fed released the text of Bernanke’s speech in
Washington ahead of the address. He will speak on a panel with
ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet, International Monetary Fund
Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn and Brazil central bank
president Henrique Meirelles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at   rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 