-- Yen, Dollar Strengthen as China's Inflation Steps Curb Appetite for Risk
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-11-19T19:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/yen-dollar-strengthen-as-china-s-inflation-steps-curb-appetite-for-risk.html
The yen and the dollar rose against
most major counterparts after China took steps to curb
inflation, damping demand for currencies tied to growth.  The euro traded near a two-week high versus the yen as
investors speculated a bailout for Ireland will prevent Europe’s
debt crisis from worsening. China raised its banks’ reserve
ratio requirements, pushing down stocks, raw materials and
commodity-linked currencies such as the Australian dollar.  “It’s not great for risk appetite,”  Richard Franulovich ,
a senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New
York. “China has been a huge source of liquidity and global
growth and if it’s now tightening monetary policy again, it’s
withdrawing liquidity, which will hurt stocks and will hurt
currencies like the Aussie.”  The yen was little changed at 83.47 per dollar at 2:12 p.m.
in New York, compared with 83.52 yen yesterday. It was still
poised for a third weekly loss. The euro rose 0.2 percent to
$1.3668, paring its second weekly loss to 0.2 percent. The
shared currency added 0.1 percent to 114.10 yen, compared with
113.95 yen yesterday. The euro earlier touched 114.32 yen, the
highest level since Nov. 5.  The greenback rose against nine of its 16 most-traded
counterparts, after earlier falling against most of them. The
yen gained versus 13.  China ordered banks to set aside larger reserves for the
fifth time this year, draining cash from the financial system to
limit inflation. The  ratio  will increase 50 basis points, or
0.50 percentage point, starting Nov. 29, the central bank said
on its  website . The aim is to step up liquidity management and
“appropriately control” credit and loans, it said.  Irish Bailout  The euro remained higher versus most peers amid speculation
Ireland will get a bailout package. Officials from the European
Union, International Monetary Fund and European Central Bank
started yesterday to study the banks’ books.  “It’s accompanied expectations that authorities in Europe
will come to some agreement on providing an aid package to
Ireland,” said  Robert Lynch , head of currency strategy at HSBC
Holdings Plc in New York. “The perception that those stresses
will be addressed is helping the euro trade better.”  Ireland’s central bank governor,  Patrick Honohan , said
yesterday he expects the nation to seek a package worth “tens
of billions” of euros to help rescue banks battered by the
country’s property slump.  The euro may rise versus the dollar as the sovereign debt
crisis subsides and investors focus on U.S. Treasury yields amid
the Federal Reserve’s purchases of bonds in a quantitative-
easing program to spur employment and avert deflation, according
to Deutsche Bank AG.  Yields on Treasuries  “We find that U.S. real yields, rather than euro-area
sovereign woes, have been the main driver of the dollar,” a
team led by  Bilal Hafeez , global head of foreign-exchange
strategy in London, wrote in an e-mailed report today. Real
yields are what investors get after accounting for inflation.  Treasury  notes fell this week, elevating yields on the
benchmark 10-year security to as much as 2.96 percent, the
highest level in three months.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended the U.S. central
bank’s plan to purchase $600 billion in government debt through
June, saying in a speech in Frankfurt it will aid the economy.  The best way to underpin the dollar and support the global
recovery “is through policies that lead to a resumption of
robust growth in a context of price stability in the United
States,” Bernanke said.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said it’s too
early to assume the central bank will complete the $600 billion
in Treasury purchases authorized by policy makers this month. He
spoke in an interview with Bloomberg Television in Washington.  Commodities Slide  Currencies of commodities exporters fell as the  Reuters-
Jefferies CRB Index  of raw materials tumbled 1.3 percent. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fluctuated after dropping as much as
0.6 percent.  The Australian dollar was among the worst performers versus
its U.S. counterpart. China is the South Pacific nation’s
largest trading partner. The currencies of Brazil and South
Africa, other countries that export commodities, also fell.  The dollar gained 0.5 percent to 98.52 cents to the Aussie.
It rose 0.3 percent to 1.7170 Brazilian reais and appreciated
0.2 percent versus South Africa’s rand to 6.9887.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index,  used to track
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners including the euro and yen, was little changed at
78.556 after falling for the past two days.  Taiwan Dollar  Taiwan’s currency gained versus all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts as the nation’s  economy  expanded in the third
quarter more than forecast. Gross domestic product rose 9.8
percent, compared with the year-ago period, versus a Bloomberg
News survey’s median forecast for an 8.3 percent jump. The
currency gained 0.3 percent to 30.321 per U.S. dollar.  The Taiwanese dollar may “overshoot” the U.S. dollar if
Taiwan’s central bank doesn’t intervene in the currency market,
the Economic Daily News reported, citing deputy governor  George Chou . Action by the central bank is necessary, as a strong local
currency would hurt exporters and economic growth, according to
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  