-- Mylan Call Trading Rises on Takeover Speculation, Favorable Court Ruling
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-11-19T20:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-19/mylan-call-trading-rises-on-takeover-speculation-favorable-court-ruling.html
Bullish Mylan Inc.  options  trading
rose to the highest since July 2009 on speculation that the
biggest U.S. maker of generic drugs may be acquired and after a
U.K. judge ruled that rival Cephalon Inc. can’t block it from
selling a sleep-disorder drug.  More than 35,000 calls to buy the stock changed hands, 12
times average and eight times the number of puts to sell, as of
3:30 p.m. in New York. The  most-active  contracts were December
$21 calls, which more than quadrupled to 53 cents and accounted
for about a third of the call volume. The shares rose 2.4
percent to $19.71.  The options trading was spurred by “unsubstantiated
takeover rumors,” strategists at Susquehanna International
Group LLP in Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania, wrote in a note to
clients.  Michael Laffin , a spokesman for Canonsburg,
Pennsylvania-based Mylan, didn’t immediately return a call for
comment.  “While rumors are again circulating that MYL may be a
takeover target, news out of London that a High Court judge will
not block Mylan from selling its generic version of Cephalon
Inc.’s sleep disorder drug Provigil has also helped push MYL’s
shares higher,” Patrick Mortimer, director of options trading
at Pipeline Trading Systems LLC in New Hope, Pennsylvania, wrote
in a note to clients today.  Implied Volatility Rises  Mylan’s  implied volatility , the key gauge of option prices,
for at-the-money options expiring in 30 days, rose to 40.92, the
highest since May.  Cephalon, maker of the sleep-disorder drug Provigil, can’t
block Mylan and Orchid Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Ltd. from
selling generic versions of the drug in Britain before a patent
trial, the High Court in London ruled. The judge said an
expedited trial on Cephalon’s patent-infringement claims should
take place in April 2011.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves
or bet that  volatility , or stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 