-- Technology, globalization changing retail landscape
-- By  Nicole Maestri
-- Mon Jan 15, 2007 1:14pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/15/businesspro-retail-nrf-keynotes-dc-idUSN1541876420070115

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Technology and globalization are 
changing the retail landscape and successful retailers will be 
those who can respond and adapt to those changes, attendees of 
the National Retail Federation's annual convention were told on 
Monday. 

  Speaking to a crowded ballroom on Monday morning in New 
York, National Retail Federation President and Chief Executive 
Tracy Mullin, Metro AG ( MEOG.DE ) Chief Executive Hans-Joachim 
Koerber, and Microsoft Corp. ( MSFT.O ) Chief Executive Steve 
Ballmer said technology and the Internet have altered how 
consumers shop and what they expect from retailers.  "Through blogs and consumer reviews, customers are letting 
the retailer know how they feel about shopping at their store 
or Web site, and whether they like the products they brought," 
Mullin said.  Retailers who have set up customer reviews, where shoppers 
can give feedback on products they have purchased, have 
reported more satisfied customers and fewer returns, she said, 
because consumers can lean from the experience of others and 
avoid products with bad reviews.  "The consumer is absolutely in a different position today 
and going forward than the consumer was in the past," Ballmer 
told the crowd.  "The consumers' ability to get information, to be 
empowered, to know what's out there, to make intelligent 
decisions, to stay organized, to dispassionately assess 
alternatives, to be in control, has never been higher."  He pointed to the fact that Time Magazine's 2006 "Person of 
the Year" was "you."  Consumers expect more personalization, tailoring and 
customization than ever before, he said, and they expect to be 
able to search and get information or shop from their home, 
over the Internet or on a mobile devices.  "They expect to be at the center of everything that the 
businesses that serve them do," Ballmer said. "The ability for 
consumers to get information and be served in a variety of ways 
is only going to increase."  Metro's Koerber said the increasing digitalization of 
consumers' lives is something routine "that nobody can afford 
to ignore."  He also said retailers cannot ignore the growth 
opportunities coming from emerging markets like China, Russia, 
Ukraine, and India.  "In India, retailing is undergoing a crucial shift at the 
moment as supply moves from small mom and pops to larger 
outlets," he said.  He said Metro, a German retailer, is now in 30 countries 
with around 2,400 outlets, and roughly 56 percent of its sales 
come from abroad.  Ballmer said that in India and China, organized retail is 
taking off "in an unbelievable way."  Ballmer said competition is becoming much more global and 
more focused on giving the consumer "exactly what they want," 
with retailers trying to differentiate themselves through 
different store formats or experiences.  Koerber called on retailers to adopt global standards to 
make running businesses globally more efficient.  "Running a business like ours without true standardization 
would be like trying to a play a game between a European soccer 
team and the Pittsburgh Steelers," he said, referring to the 
U.S. professional football team.  While he said the game would be all about football -- most 
countries outside of North America call soccer football -- it 
would clearly by hampered by the different understanding 
globally of what football means.  "We cannot afford to apply different standards in different 
regions of the world where we do business," he said.