-- BP investors hope CEO change will end share lag
-- By  Tom Bergin
-- Mon Jan 15, 2007 10:32am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/15/businesspro-bp-ceo-dc-idUSL1590166420070115

 

 LONDON  (Reuters) - Investors in BP Plc ( BP.L ) hope Chief 
Executive John Browne's decision to step down 17 months early, 
removing a possible power vacuum, will prompt a turnaround in 
the oil major's lagging share price. 

  BP surprised the market on Friday with the news that Browne 
would hand over to exploration and production boss Tony Hayward 
in July, ending concerns that a long handover period could 
hamper BP's ability to address problems in its U.S. operations 
and take bold strategic moves.  BP stock, which lagged rivals by 16 percent last year, 
jumped 2 percent on the news.  "There had been a bit of a standoff between Browne and the 
board about the timing of his departure so clearly this news is 
positive ... there's not going to be a vacuum," said Adrian 
Jackson at Investec Asset Management, which holds BP shares.  Analysts and investors noted that Hayward headed the 
division -- BP's biggest -- which was the source of many of 
BP's recent problems, such as the delayed startup of new 
projects, like Thunder Horse in the Gulf of Mexico, and 
pipeline leaks in Alaska.  He is seen as offering a fresh touch to deal with BP's 
problems.  Hayward has already outlined -- in an internal message to 
staff late last year -- that he would like top BP management to 
listen more to lower-level staff and cautioned that BP's "more 
for less" culture could lead to trouble.  Politicians, regulators and industry figures have blamed 
the Alaska pipeline leaks and a fatal explosion at BP's Texas 
City refinery in 2005 on a BP obsession with cost-cutting.
  CHANGE IN STRUCTURE  Hayward could also bring a new approach to BP's 
organizational structure.  Neil McMahon, oil analyst at Sanford Bernstein said BP 
should review the "unique organizational structure," developed 
under Browne, whereby individual countries or even individual 
fields operate as separate business units.  BP could adopt a structure like Exxon Mobil Corp ( XOM.N ). 
which is organized along functional lines, McMahon said. Under 
this approach, people involved in exploration operations report 
within an exploration unit, people involved in development 
projects are tied together, and so on.  "Elements of the alternative functional model, such as that 
adopted within ExxonMobil, could deliver improved results and 
help BP regain a higher market multiple," McMahon said.  Investec's Jackson said Hayward should also have a hard 
look at BP's refining business to see if the company should 
sell it and become a "super E&P" (exploration and production 
company).  "They need to improve the downstream or get rid of it," 
Jackson said.  Nonetheless, Hayward is not expected to unveil any major 
initiatives in the coming months, which means any significant 
rerating of the shares is not seen anytime soon.  "It is hard to see BP outperforming until Hayward defines 
his vision for BP this summer and the evidence of operational 
improvements becomes manifest, which is unlikely until the 
second half of 2007. The risk is that for the next quarter BP 
is "dead money,"" Citigroup said in a research note.  Until last year, BP shares enjoyed a substantial premium 
over rivals, on a price earnings basis, because investors 
believed BP's management could deliver greater growth than 
rivals.  BP underperformed the global energy sector by 16 percent 
last year and lagged larger rivals Exxon and Royal Dutch Shell 
( RDSa.L ) by 23 percent and 5 percent, respectively, Morgan 
Stanley said.