-- Airbus CEO dropped trousers for plane deal: book
-- By  Bill Rigby
-- Mon Jan 15, 2007 9:01am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/15/businesspro-boeing-airbus-book-dc-idUSN1432449720070115

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Jean Pierson, the colorful Frenchman 
who built Airbus into Boeing Co.'s ( BA.N ) biggest competitor, 
dropped his trousers to seal a key U.S. plane order in 1997, 
according to a book to be published on Tuesday. 

  The bizarre tactic worked, and the resulting order helped 
Airbus take on Boeing in its own backyard, setting up the 
biggest rivalry in global business, according to "Boeing versus 
Airbus," by former New Yorker magazine writer John Newhouse.  Pierson, who ran Airbus from 1985 to 1998, was at US 
Airways' headquarters for what he thought would be a short 
meeting to tie up a 400-plane deal, the anecdote runs.  At the last minute, US Airways' then-chairman Stephen Wolf 
started arguing for a 5 percent discount on the selling price.  "Pierson began slowly lowering his trousers and saying 'I 
have nothing more to give.' He then allowed the trousers to 
fall around his ankles," says Newhouse in his book.  Wolf replied: "Pull up your pants. I don't need any more 
money," and the deal was signed, according to the book. The 
author says he got the story from Pierson himself, and it was 
confirmed by another person present.  Shortly afterward, US Airways announced the purchase of 124 
single-aisle Airbus A320 family jets with options for 276 more, 
a stab into the heart of Boeing's competing 737 program. It put 
the European company on track to overtake Boeing in global 
orders only two years later.
  BOEING 'LUCKY'  Airbus' well-designed planes and aggressive marketing 
helped the relatively young European consortium overtake 
long-time industry leader Boeing in 1999, as the U.S. company 
finally succumbed to a decade of complacency in the 1990s, the 
book argues.  But the wheel of fortune turned once more last year as 
Airbus' delayed its A380 superjumbo and was forced to rethink 
its new mid-sized A350 jet, prompting boardroom turmoil and 
heavy financial losses for parent EADS ( EAD.PA ).  In the meantime, Boeing's new lightweight 787 "Dreamliner" 
ran away with hundreds of orders as air travelers leaned toward 
smaller, more comfortable planes that can serve more airports 
and may be less obvious targets of terrorism.  However, Newhouse says the revitalization of Boeing -- 
which itself flirted with a superjumbo and nearly built the 
universally unpopular Sonic Cruiser -- owes as much to the 
unpredictability of the aerospace business as planning.  Boeing "flew on automatic pilot" for a decade or so after 
launching the 777 minijumbo in 1990, Newhouse writes. "Boeing's 
leadership during those years is a reminder that it may be 
better to be lucky than to be smart. Boeing was lucky."
  LARGER THAN LIFE  The battle for dominance in the plane business comes into 
focus this week as Airbus releases its annual orders for 2006. 
It is expected to lag Boeing for the first time since 2000.  "My instinct is that Airbus will survive and we will have a 
mature duopoly in this business," said Newhouse in an interview 
last week. "But Airbus is going to be behind Boeing for some 
time to come."  Although the competition has heated up, executives in the 
planemaking business are much less interesting now, said 
Newhouse, who also wrote 'The Sporty Game', a collection of his 
articles written for The New Yorker, which was published in 
1982.  "There were more larger-than-life characters then by far," 
he said. "Now they are all tedious bureaucrats, most of them."  The exceptions, said Newhouse, are Airbus' marketing chief 
John Leahy and Scott Carson, the new head of Boeing's 
commercial aircraft unit.  "Carson was a breath of fresh air, easily the most 
impressive Boeing executive I met in Seattle," said Newhouse.  The author said he spent time in both companies' commercial 
planemaking headquarters researching his book, and talked to 
many current and former executives.  "Whether you go to Seattle or Toulouse you are going to run 
into a lot of people who are blowing equal amounts of smoke, 
criticizing the other guy's program and extolling their own," 
said Newhouse, an American.  "The difference is the Airbus people talk like actual 
people, whereas the Boeing people talk like people reading from 
a script written jointly by the PR and legal counsels."