-- User-generated Web sites in clicks-to-cash dilemma
-- 
-- Mon Jan 15, 2007 11:02am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/15/businesspro-video-earnings-outlook-dc-idUSL156494820070115

 

 LONDON  (Reuters) - User generated video Web sites, 
dominated by heavyweights such as YouTube and MySpace, may be 
awash with millions of clips, but face big challenges turning 
traffic to cash, a London-based research firm said on Monday. 

  Market research analyst Screen Digest predicts that 
although 44 billion video streams -- 55 percent of all video 
content consumed in the U.S. -- will be created by 2010, the 
market will only account for 15 percent of total revenues.  User generated video made up 47 percent of the total online 
video market in the U.S. last year, said Screen Digest.  Compounding the problem of making money from video streams 
is that many such sites do well in content that can be violent, 
rude and boring, not something big advertisers are drawn to.  Another challenge is the time taken to experiment with new 
advertising formats and the threat of a Web site losing its 
user appeal when ads appear near personal videos.  "It is the nature of content itself. How do you monetize 
free content? That is the core debate," Arash Amel, a Screen 
Digest analyst who wrote the report, told Reuters.  "No one has found a way to make real money from the huge 
audiences who participate on these sites," he added.  Amel said there were a number of indicators that suggested 
"2007 might be the leveler for 2006" despite the strong growth.  These included the exit of key executives and co-founders 
in companies like Los Angeles-based video sharing company 
Revver and rival Guba and the drive by major media companies to 
buy into user generated video Web sites.  "They are actually becoming yet another outlet for parent 
companies to cross promote their content," said Amel.  Despite this, U.S. ad revenue is expected to remain the key 
source of revenue for user generated online video sites, rising 
from $200 million in 2006 to almost $900 million by 2010.  Amel said this would still dominate other business models 
such as licensing, digital sales and rental premium movie and 
television content and subscriptions.  Screen Digest's report said video sharing sites need to 
diversify, particularly with the dominance of video sites such 
as YouTube, a unit of Internet search engine Google ( GOOG.O ) 
and MySpace, owned by media giant News Corp. NWSa.N.  Although the European market is small relative to the U.S., 
the region is seeing many sites extend their offering of local 
language sites and fresh initiatives from the likes of MyVideo, 
Clipfish, Daily Motion, Yoo tribe, Wideo and Flurl Media in 
Britain, France, Germany and Belgium.