-- Venezuela intensifies takeover fight with big firms
-- By Brian Ellsworth
-- Mon Jan 15, 2007 5:01pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/15/businesspro-venezuela-nationalization-dc-idUSN1544384020070115

 

 CARACAS  (Reuters) - Venezuela intensified its 
nationalization fight with foreign companies on Monday, vowing 
to impose a takeover of oil majors' operations and grab all of 
a U.S. utility's stake in the country's largest private power 
company. 

  The OPEC nation's energy minister revealed that President 
Hugo Chavez's announcement last week of a new nationalization 
drive meant Venezuela was ending months-long talks with some of 
the world's biggest companies over planned oil takeovers.  The minister, Rafael Ramirez, also said Chavez's plan to 
nationalize the electricity sector included taking U.S.-based 
AES Corp.'s ( AES.N ) 87-percent stake in the sector's flagship 
company.  The takeover of Electricidad de Caracas EDC.CR could also 
come much sooner than many investors expected, with Ramirez 
saying at a news conference it was a "reasonable" goal to 
complete the move by the end of June.  AES did not immediately respond to a request for comment on 
the issue.  Since a landslide re-election last month, Chavez has 
consolidated power over the media and political parties and his 
minister's remarks underscore the harder line he intends to 
take against foreign companies in his new six-year term.  "We gave them enough time but now negotiations are 
impossible," Ramirez said of talks over the state taking a 
majority stake in multibillion dollar projects in the Orinoco 
belt.  Instead the government would impose the takeover by passing 
a new law, he said, adding, "once the respective law has been 
issued ... we can (begin) a discussion with the transnational 
companies."  Chavez is armed with a strong mandate but he is taking on 
businesses with bigger earnings than most nations -- including 
Exxon Mobil ( XOM.N ), the world's largest company -- for control 
over what he calls the earth's hugest oil reserve.  The anti-U.S. former soldier who says Cuban President Fidel 
Castro is his mentor has used record oil revenues to finance a 
self-described socialist revolution for the poor majority.  Now he wants more of that income and the battle is over 
four projects worth an estimated $33 billion that would give 
Chavez domain over a reserve believed to hold up to 235 billion 
barrels of tar-like oil.  Six companies -- Chevron ( CVX.N ) , Conoco ( COP.N ), Exxon 
Mobil, BP ( BP.L ), Norway's Statoil ( STL.OL ) and France's Total 
( TOTF.PA ) -- have invested around $20 billion for 60 percent of 
the joint ventures, with state oil firm PDVSA already holding 
the rest.  The companies have declined to comment on the 
nationalization offensive.  Ramirez also said the government wanted to merge the 
refineries in the four separate ventures into one downstream 
operation that upgrades the Orinoco crude.
  POWER GRAB  For years, Chavez has moved against private companies in 
the energy sector. With solid profits in an era of generally 
high oil prices the companies have offered some resistance but 
eventually agreed to changes.  Still, energy analysts say the majors have balked at the 
Orinoco takeover because of the huge investments they made 
there.  In the electricity sector, Ramirez drew a distinction 
between smaller investors and AES, pledging to allow minority 
shareholders to keep a stake in Electricidad even though the 
U.S. utility will lose all of its holding.  On the Caracas stock exchange, the share price of 
Electricidad, which serves the capital, fell 6 percent.  Ramirez pledged to protect workers' interests when the 
state runs the company, in contrast, he said, with AES's 
management-style.  "When AES bought it ... the first thing the group did was 
reduce the payroll," he said.