-- UPDATE 4-U.S. Arris bids $1.2 bln for Norway's Tandberg TV
-- 
-- Mon Jan 15, 2007 10:38am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/15/tandbergtv-arris-idUSL1521663020070115

 

  (Adds shareholder quote, source on potential rival bid) 

  By Richard Solem and  Wojciech Moskwa OSLO  Jan 15 (Reuters) - U.S. communications technology firm
Arris ( ARRS.O ) on Monday agreed to buy Norwegian digital
broadcast systems maker Tandberg Television TAT.OL for $1.2
billion, but speculation was stoked of a possible rival bid.  The cash-and-stock takeover, if successful, would create a
leader in voice, data and video systems by combining Arris's
broadband know-how with Tandberg TV's digital video, compression
and interactive television technology.  Shares in Tandberg TV soared as much as 17.4 percent to a
six-month high of 101 crowns before easing back to 98.9 crowns
by 1353 GMT, still above Arris's bid of 96 crowns per share.  Analysts said the jump could mean shareholders, 90 percent
of whom are needed for it to be approved, want a sweetener
before accepting. They also said a rival bid may be on the cards
for Tandberg Television.  "The bid price is too low, and shareholders may adopt a
wait-and-see attitude," said Arnfinn Loev-Mikkelsen, an analyst
at Glitnir Securities, adding that the bid price was roughly
equal to what he saw as Tandberg TV's fair value.  "An acquisition bid should include a premium," he added.  Vital Forsikring, the insurance arm of Norwegian bank DnB
NOR DNBNOR.OL, which has a 2.45 percent stake in Tandberg TV,
said the bid seemed to be at the lower end of expectations.  "We expected a higher bid," Chief Financial Officer Tom
Rathke told Reuters, adding that he would consider the offer.  Tandberg TV said its board of directors unanimously
recommended that shareholders accept the Arris offer, and
Chairman Jan Christian Opsahl said in a statement the price
amounted to a 47 percent premium to its 90-day average price.  The transaction is expected to be completed in the second
quarter of 2007 and is subject to regulatory approvals.  The offer price consists of 80 crowns in cash and 16 crowns
in Arris shares, though Arris can raise the cash portion.  
  VIDEO ON ANY DEVICE  Linking Tandberg TV, which has more than a quarter of the
global digital video processing market, with a partner with
broadband strength or even mobile technology muscle made sense,
analyst said, as new technology made video more accessible.  Also, the consolidation of cable operators may be putting
pressure on equipment manufacturers to do the same.  "Combining the resources and experience of Arris and
Tandberg Television will produce a new company, unique in its
ability to enable voice, video and data over any network and to
any device," the companies said in a joint statement.  Paul Handeland, an analyst at ABG Sundal Collier, said other
potential suitors for Tandberg TV included mobile giants
Motorola MOT.N, Ericsson ( ERICb.ST ) and network equipment
makers Cisco ( CSCO.O ) and Alcatel-Lucent ALU.PA.  One person close to the deal said a rival bid was unlikely,
even though the break-up fee was relatively low at 1.5 percent
of the deal value. If another bidder were to emerge, it would
probably be over the next two to three weeks, the source said.  "I would not be too certain that's going to happen," the
source, who requested anonymity, told Reuters.  Arris, which specialises in the design and engineering of
broadband networks and voice over Internet protocol, had
revenues of $657 million in the first nine months of 2006.
Shares in Arris closed down at $13.1 on Friday, valuing the
company at $1.4 billion.  Tandberg TV said its 2006 revenues are expected to be around
$350 million. One of its main rivals in the digital video
business is U.S.-based Harmonic Inc. ( HLIT.O ).  Deutsche Bank advised Tandberg TV and UBS advised Arris.
 (Additional reporting by Marianne Fronsdal,  John Acher  and Ole
Petter Skonnord in Oslo and  Jeffrey Goldfarb  in London)



