-- FACTBOX: Details of Air France-KLM/Alitalia deal
-- 
-- Sun Mar 16, 2008 8:29am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/03/16/us-alitalia-airfrance-idUSL169601420080316

 

 (Reuters) - The board of Italian airline Alitalia 
accepted a takeover offer early on Sunday from Air France-KLM. 

 Following are details of the offer: SHARES One Air France-KLM share for every 160 Alitalia shares Offer covers 100 percent of Alitalia shares Air France-KLM to issue 8.7 million new shares Offer conditional on 49.9 percent acceptances before the 
exercise of convertible bonds or 62 percent when fully diluted. BONDS Air France-KLM to acquire the 2010 convertible bonds issued 
by Alitalia at their March 14 closing market value of 0.3145 euro 
per bond for a total of 608 million euros. CAPITAL INCREASE Air France-KLM to underwrite fully a 1 billion euro capital 
increase to be launched immediately after the closing of the 
offer and open to all the shareholders of Alitalia and all 
holders of convertible bonds.     Proceeds to be used for commercial re-launch of Alitalia.  INDUSTRIAL PLAN Plan foresees an initial phase of restructuring followed by 
development including fleet renewal from 2010. Alitalia reaffirms an initial 2008-2010 three-year 
"transition and survival" plan drawn up on a stand-alone basis 
before it began negotiating with Air France-KLM. Network to be organized around the international and 
intercontinental hub of Rome-Fiumicino, the centre for domestic 
Italian routes, and around European and selected 
inter-continental destinations operating from Milan.     Alitalia to maintain its own brand, remain part of SkyTeam. Only part of ground-handling unit AZ Servizi to be 
transferred to Air France-KLM. Flights linking Italy to India and China to be considered 
for reopening. TARGET Alitalia says the stand-alone 2008-2010 plan forecasts a 
return to operating profit in 2010. Air France-KLM says its plans foresee a return to operating 
profit as early as 2009 and a rapid move to operating margin 
levels in line with those of other major European airlines. Savings from the integration to allow Alitalia's operating 
profit margins to rise to those enjoyed by major European 
carriers over the medium to long-term. SHORT-TERM FUNDING Italian government to provide a credit line to keep the 
airline flying pending completion of the deal, reimbursable as 
soon as it closes. CONDITIONS Endorsement of Italian finance ministry and its undertaking 
to tender its shares and bonds. Italian government must not make any formal decision or 
statements which are strongly contrary to the deal. Formal agreement of the unions at both Alitalia and AZ 
Servizi and undertakings to co-operate fully during the relaunch 
of the airline. Air France-KLM says it is "relying on the commitment of all 
the employees, which will be crucial to the successful relaunch 
of the company". Guarantees that Alitalia can keep its slots. Guarantees over services provided by Aeroporti di Roma. A legal solution freeing Alitalia from risk in a dispute 
with SEA Handling at Malpensa airport in Milan. Alitalia says the conditions must be assessed by March 31. APPROVALS Approval by the European Commission and competition 
authorities, expected by the end of the first half of 2008. GUARANTEES Air France-KLM gives certain assurances on future of 
Alitalia for 5 years, subject to continued slot availability. GOVERNANCE Air France-KLM to create a new Italian-held board seat. Air France-KLM will not sell part of Alitalia for 3 years. Alitalia to keep headquarters and operating base in Italy. Air France-KLM ready to consider adding "Alitalia" to its 
name at a later date once it has 100 percent control.  
 FLEET Alitalia fleet (excluding Volare affiliate) will include 137 
aircraft including 20 long-range planes in 2010. From 2011, it says it will start to operate new-generation 
aircraft and envisages the replacement of its entire Boeing 767 
fleet by 2016 and its MD80 fleet by 2020. Source: Air France-KLM, Alitalia news releases (Reporting by  Tim Hepher ; Editing by  Jason Neely )