-- CSN Raises Corus Bid to $9.6 Billion, Topping Tata
-- Matthew Craze
-- 2006-12-11T20:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-12-11/csn-raises-corus-bid-to-9-6-billion-topping-tata-update8-.html

          
          
             Cia. Siderurgica Nacional of  Brazil 
SA raised its offer for Corus Group Plc, the U.K.'s largest
steelmaker, to 4.9 billion pounds ($9.6 billion), topping a
sweetened bid from  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)   
 CSN, Brazil's fourth-largest steelmaker, said it agreed to
pay 515 pence for each share, 3 percent more than the 500 pence
that Mumbai-based Tata offered yesterday. Corus's stock rose as
high as 529.5 pence, signaling investors expect another bid.  
 Tata and Rio de Janeiro-based CSN want to buy Corus, the
former British Steel Plc, to add mills in Europe that supply
automakers Ford Motor Co. and Volvo AB and to boost their
bargaining power with raw material suppliers. Surging demand has
spurred $78 billion of mergers in the industry this year.  
 ``This is just a taster of what is shaping the steel
industry as both suppliers and customers consolidate,'' said
Stephen Pope, head of equity research at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in
London.  
 CSN Chief Executive Officer Benjamin Steinbruch's purchase
of Corus would be the second-biggest in the industry this year,
behind Mittal Steel Co.'s $38.3 billion takeover of Arcelor SA.  
 The purchase will be made mostly through 4.35 billion
pounds of debt underwritten by  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  ING Groep NV (INGA)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , CSN Chief Financial Officer Otavio
Lazcano said on a conference call today. There is ``compelling
logic'' to the merger, he said.  
 Arcelor Mittal accounts for about 10 percent of world
output and steelmakers want to get bigger partly to cut the
costs of buying raw materials such as coal and iron ore. Cia.
Vale do Rio Doce, BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group control
three-quarters of the global iron-ore trade.  
 Undervalued  
 Standard Life Plc, the biggest investor in Corus, said on
Oct. 20 that Tata's first offer undervalued the Anglo-Dutch
steelmaker. Standard said today in an e-mailed statement it's
awaiting ``developments.'' Buying Corus would make Tata or CSN
the world's fifth-largest steelmaker.  
 Shares of Corus  climbed 27.25 pence, or 5.5 percent, to
527.25 pence in  London  today. The stock has gained 79 percent
this year. CSN's stock dropped 1 percent to 63.9 reais in Sao
Paulo.  
 Credit-default swaps based on 10 million euros of Corus
debt rose by about 2,000 euros to 181,500 euros, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. An increase in the cost of the
contracts indicates deterioration in credit quality. CSN's
Lazcano said the company's net debt will rise $2.5 billion after
the Corus purchase.  
 Paying Too Much  
 Bonds of Corus rose, with the yield on the 7.5 percent note
maturing in October 2011 falling 4 basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 5.49 percent, according to Morgan Stanley
prices.  
 Investors said Tata Steel and CSN may be paying too much
for Corus. Mittal's offer for Arcelor was 4.56 times the
Luxembourg-based company's earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda. CSN's bid is 5.73
times Corus's Ebitda, based on the U.K. steelmaker's earnings in
the 12 months to June 30. Tata's offer is 5.03 times Ebitda.  
 ``I don't see which party is going to stop,'' said Tom Muller, an analyst with Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers in Amsterdam.
``Both are going to finance the bid with loans using Corus as
collateral, so they both have some room for maneuver.''  
 CSN's valuation of 4.9 billion pounds includes Corus's
``issued and to-be-issued share capital,'' the Brazilian company
said today.  
 Worst Performers  
 Tata shares  are the worst performers on  India 's benchmark
index in the past three months. The stock slumped 29 rupees, or
6 percent, to 453.4 rupees in Mumbai today, the sharpest decline
since June 26.  
 Tata Steel, which was borrowing 3.3 billion pounds for the
initial bid, had said additional funding for its new offer would
be provided for by Standard Chartered Bank Plc. and Standard
Chartered First Bank Korea Ltd.  
 Standard & Poor's had placed Tata's debt rating at ``BBB''
with negative implications and said a revision in the offer for
Corus may have an ``adverse impact'' on the company's funds.
Moody's Investors Service said Oct. 18 it may cut the company's
Baa2 rating as the deal may ``constrain financial strength.''  
 Tata said today in its statement it will make an
announcement on CSN's bid ``in due course.'' Deputy Managing
Director T.K. Mukherjee declined to comment.  
 Pensions Support  
 CSN's offer hinged on getting the support of Corus's
pension trustees, who could have refused to approve it to the
U.K.'s pensions watchdog. Corus's pension plans have liabilities
totaling 13 billion pounds.  
 The Brazilian company said today it will pay 138 million
pounds up front to fund the deficit in the Corus Engineering
Steels Pension Scheme. It also will increase the contribution
rate on the British Steel Pension Scheme to 12 percent from 10
percent until March 31, 2009, it said.  
 CSN's debt is rated Ba2 by Moody's and BB with a negative
outlook by S&P.  
 A purchase of Corus by CSN will bring annual savings of
$300 million by 2009, the Brazilian company said. A further $450
million will come from iron-ore sales to Corus by 2009, it said.  
 `Very Segmented'  
 ``The steel industry is still very segmented, and if
companies consolidate, there will be a lot of benefits,'' said
Park Sung Mee, a steel analyst at Deutsche Securities Korea Co.,
in  Seoul . ``The effects are becoming greater as bigger
consolidations occur.''  
 Both CSN's Steinbruch and Tata's Chairman Ratan Tata want
to add finishing mills in  Europe  to local plants.  
 CSN said Nov. 23 it's a better ``fit'' for Corus than Tata.
Brazilian steelmakers, bolstered by record profits, are turning
to North America and Europe for deals because of limited growth
at home.  
 CSN produces enough iron ore from its mines in Brazil to
supply all of Corus's requirements, Steinbruch said in a
statement on Nov. 17. CSN, which owns 3.8 percent of Corus, is
developing its Casa de Pedra iron ore mine, which it expects to
produce as much as 50 million tons a year by 2009.  
 ``The CSN plan makes the most sense for Corus,'' said
Rodrigo Barros, an analyst at Unibanco SA in Sao Paulo. ``The
purchase will really change the scale of CSN and is a perfect
combination.''  
 Prices of iron ore have risen for four straight years and
gained 19 percent to a record this year, spurring companies to
seek alliances that will cut costs and secure iron-ore supplies.  
 Corus was created through the combination of British Steel
and the Netherlands' Royal Hoogovens in 1999. Chief Executive
Officer Philippe Varin, who took over in 2003, has returned the
company to profit after job cuts and plant closures.  
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are financial
advisers to CSN. UBS AG is also CSN's corporate broker. Credit
Suisse Group, JPMorgan Cazenove and  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  are
advising Corus.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and ABN Amro Holding NV are
advising Tata.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Kutty Abraham in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Craze in Buenos Aires at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        