-- Gates Says Boeing System May Not Be Built in Entirety
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2008-02-07T01:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-07/gates-says-boeing-system-may-not-be-built-in-entirety-update3-.html

          
          
             Defense Secretary Robert Gates today
expressed doubts that the U.S. Army's top weapons program, the
$160 billion Future Combat System managed by  Boeing Co. (BA) , can be
developed as planned.  
 ``If you look at the total cost of the Future Combat System
over the entire duration, frankly, it is hard for me to see how
that program can be completed in its entirety,'' Gates said.  
 ``In light of what are inevitably going to be pressures on
the defense budget, I think that that one is one that we will
have to look at carefully,'' Gates told the Senate Armed
Services Committee.  
 The program must compete with the expense of adding 65,000
personnel to the Army by 2012, repairing and replacing equipment
lost or damaged in  Iraq  and other weapons programs and research,
Gates said. That's an estimated $260 billion cost for which only
$141 billion has been budgeted, said Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode
Island Democrat who is an Army veteran and committee member.  
 Boeing spokesman John Morrocco said in an e-mail statement
that the company and its industry partners ``are committed to
supporting our customer in every way we can. Together with the
Army, we are working to deliver key FCS capabilities to the
current force while focusing on providing a fully integrated,
full-spectrum combat capability that will allow soldiers to
perform their missions more effectively and safely while
dramatically reducing life cycle costs.''  
 The Chicago-based company, the Pentagon's second-largest
supplier, fell $1.38, or 1.7 percent, to $79.91 at 4 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite  trading .  
 Program Costs  
 Gates praised the Army for fielding ``right away'' some
technology in the Future Combat Systems program, the U.S.
military's second most costly program after the $299 billion
Joint Strike Fighter.  
 The Defense Department's proposed budget for the fiscal
year starting Oct. 1 requests $3.6 billion for the system of
manned and unmanned vehicles, drones and radio networks managed
by Boeing and San Diego, California-based Science Applications
International Corp.  
 U.S. Government Accountability Office Director of
Acquisition and Sourcing Management Paul Francis, who has
supervised audits on the program, said Gates's remarks were
timely because parts of the program, such as unmanned sensors,
are soon to enter limited production.  
 ``The Army is at the verge of starting production funding
for FCS, and this is the right time to seriously re-examine the
program's true costs and long-term affordability,'' Francis said
in an e-mail statement.  
 ``While the Army must wrestle with significant competing
demands, this is true defense-wide, when considering the large
commitments envisioned for shipbuilding, fighter aircraft, and
missile defense,'' he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Forsythe at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        