-- U.K. May Make Water Metering Compulsory After Drought
-- Alex Morales
-- 2008-02-07T15:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-07/u-k-may-make-water-metering-compulsory-after-drought-update2-.html

          
          
             The U.K. may make water metering
compulsory in parts of southern and eastern England where a
drought from 2004 to 2006 led to restrictions, Environment
Secretary  Hilary Benn  said.  
 Britons need to use water more wisely and manage rivers and
buildings more effectively to prevent shortages and flooding,
Benn said today at a news conference in London. He outlined a
water strategy for England that also includes measures to curb
pollution from detergents and encourage use of permeable building
materials to help prevent a repeat of last year's floods, which
caused 3 billion pounds ($6 billion) of damage.  
 An independent review will be carried out to determine where
metering may be required, and how people with larger families and
those on lower incomes will be affected, Benn said. About 30
percent of U.K. households have a water meter, which typically
cuts usage by 10 percent, according to the  U.K. Department for
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs , or Defra.  
 ``In areas of water stress -- the southeast -- we're going
to need to move to near universal metering before 2030,'' Benn
said in an interview after the conference. ``We've got to find a
fair and equitable basis for doing that on the question of
charging.'' He didn't give a timeline for the review.  
 Water usage is 150 liters (40 gallons) per person per day in
the U.K. The government has set a target of reducing that to 130
liters per person per day. Consumers without meters pay a fixed
sum for their supply and have no financial incentive to use water
efficiently, the Committee of Public Accounts said in May.  
 Climate Benefit  
 ``We lead more water-intensive lifestyles now, with power
showers, jet washers, a lot of appliances,'' Benn said. ``There
are steps we can take: having dual flush toilets, changing the
type of taps and appliances we use, having a water butt in the
garden'' to collect rainwater.  
 Eight utilities imposed water restrictions in 2006 after two
winters of below-average rainfall depleted water reserves in
southern England. The government issued drought orders for three
water companies in May 2006, enabling them to impose even tighter
restrictions, and Folkestone and Dover Water Services Ltd. in
southeast England was granted ``water scarcity'' status, enabling
it to impose water meters on customers.  
 Cutting water use will also help to lower the U.K.'s
emissions of carbon dioxide, the main gas blamed for climate
change, the environment secretary said. Domestic water use in
England produces about 35 million metric tons of carbon dioxide
equivalent per year, according to Defra.  
 `Every Pint'  
 ``Every pint of water that's produced and then pumped and
used and disposed of in the sewage system results in emissions,
and that's another argument to bring usage down,'' Benn said.  
 The government is also consulting with washing detergent
manufacturers over a possible ban on phosphates, which help
remove grease from dishes and make clothing whiter in the wash.  
 ``Because alternatives are available in relation to washing
powders, there's no reason why we shouldn't'' ban phosphates,
Benn said. ``We'll get on with that as quickly as we can. The
consultation will look at whether we can do it by a voluntary
agreement or whether we need to use regulation.''  
 The government may also change planning rules so homeowners
who want to use non-permeable paving in their front yards will
require permission, as part of efforts to cut surface flooding.
Last year's floods in northern and central England were caused by
a combination of surface runoff, rivers breaching their banks,
and saturated water tables.  
 ``In the future, if you want to pave over, but use permeable
paving or gravel, so the water drains down, you carry on taking
that decision for yourself, but if you're going to pave in a way
that the water runs off into the surface water drainage system,
you'll have to apply for planning permission,'' Benn said. ``That
will encourage us all to think about what type of paving we put
down.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kristen Hallam  in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        