-- Yevtushenkov's Sistema Denies Buying UralSib Stake
-- Denis Maternovsky
-- 2008-02-07T15:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-07/yevtushenkov-s-sistema-denies-buying-uralsib-stake-update3-.html

          
          
             AFK Sistema (AFKS) , holding company for
Russian billionaire Vladimir Yevtushenkov, denied offering to buy
shares of Bank UralSib.  
 Russia's financial regulator, the Federal Financial Markets
Service, said on its  Web site  earlier today that Moscow-based
Sistema was seeking to buy shares in Bank UralSib that it doesn't
already own. The watchdog pulled the statement at about 1:50 p.m.
and issued a second statement around 3 p.m. saying it will probe a
``technical glitch'' and possible price manipulation.  
 ``We are not buying it. It is a clear mistake,'' Sistema
Chief Executive Office Alexander Goncharuk said in an interview
today. The company doesn't own shares in UralSib and isn't holding
talks to acquire them, he said.  
 UralSib,  Russia 's second-biggest private bank, isn't planning
``any deals with either AFK Sistema or any other Russian or
foreign institution,'' said Alexander Vikhrov, the bank's
executive director, in an interview today.  
 Sistema controls OAO Mobile TeleSystems, the country's
biggest cellular operator. It plans to borrow about $10 billion
this year to fund expansion, including units not related to
telecommunications, Yevtushenkov said in an interview in Davos,
Switzerland last month. Sistema may buy two or three banks this
year and eventually create one of the country's 10 biggest
financial groups, Yevtushenkov said at the time without
elaborating.  
 Sistema's banking assets include the Moscow Bank for
Reconstruction and Development and Khabarovsk, Russia-based
Dalcombank, which it acquired this week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at  at
 lklemming@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        