-- Robeco CEO says recession possible
-- By  Gilbert Kreijger
-- Wed Dec 5, 2007 2:12am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/12/05/businesspro-markets-fundview-robeco-dc-idUSLA88308620071205

 

 AMSTERDAM  (Reuters) - The U.S. economy might fall into a 
recession if U.S. consumption is hit by rising mortgage costs 
and declining housing prices, Robeco's Chief Executive told 
Reuters on Tuesday. 

  "If people cannot pay their mortgages anymore, and housing 
prices are falling, then you have a consumption problem in the 
U.S., and that translates into a declining economy," Robeco's 
CEO George Moller said in an interview.  Dutch asset manager Robeco, owned by Dutch privately-owned 
Rabobank RABN.UL, manages about 150 billion euros ($221 
billion) in assets worldwide.  "How bad it will be, we don't know. It could be that China 
keeps up demand," he said about the impact of a slowing U.S. 
growth rate on the global economy.  The U.S. economy could also face stagflation -- a situation 
where growth stagnates but prices keep rising -- as Moller 
expected commodities, such as oil, to continue to become more 
expensive.  Slowing growth would also stem from banks faced with less 
room to offer credit to consumers and companies as they are 
forced to take off-shore assets back on their balance sheets 
due to the credit crisis, limiting their solvability, said 
Moller.  Some banks, such as HSBC Holdings Plc ( HSBA.L ) last week, 
have put assets, mostly bank debt and asset-backed securities, 
back on their balance sheet as demand for these securities 
shriveled due to U.S. subprime problems and a subsequent credit 
squeeze.  U.S. President George W. Bush acknowledged on Tuesday that 
the U.S. economy faced serious issues, citing the credit crunch 
and the home-building industry but said the country's economic 
fundamentals were strong.  Moller said U.S. economic problems and the credit squeeze 
could also hit Europe's economy, as European banks will also 
have less room to offer credit and a strong euro versus the 
dollar could limit demand for European products.  The euro reached an all-time high at $1.4966 two weeks ago, 
but has retreated since then to $1.4755 by 12:20 p.m. EDT, and 
Moller expected a stabilization in the exchange rate for the 
next few months.  He expected oil and commodity prices to rise on a medium to 
long term as scarcity would keep pushing up prices.  "All minerals that are related to solar power, like 
silicon, are in demand. Prices are already rising," said 
Moller.  "If I could invest in stocks, I would choose companies that 
focus on sustainability and alternative energy sources. Water 
and energy are scarce. Everything that is related to climate 
change -- building dikes, bridges -- will build up steam," he 
said.  Moller also favored investing in non-cyclical sectors or go 
short to make money in current volatile markets. He also 
remained positive about emerging markets, singling out Turkey.  "Turkey has internal strength and it is not so overpriced," 
Moller said.