-- China's rich give back as philanthropy surges
-- By Susan Fenton
-- Wed Dec 5, 2007 3:57am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/12/05/businesspro-china-philanthropy-dc-idUSHKG37217120071205

 

 HONG KONG  (Reuters) - Philanthropic donations in China are 
surging, as the country's nouveau riche expands with economic 
development, and should be boosted in the next few years by 
much-needed tax incentives, analysts say. 

  Donations from the top 50 publicly disclosed 
philanthropists in China have risen eight-fold in the past 
three years, totaling US$10.9 billion so far this year, 
according to investment bank  UBS AG ( UBSN.VX ) ( UBS.N ).  They are led by 85-year-old Yu Pengnian of Shenzhen-based 
trade and property group Pengnian Industries, who has donated 
US$260 million to health and higher education since 2003, 
according to the Beijing-based Hurun Report's league table.  Yu is followed by a younger crop of entrepreneurs headed by 
Zhu Mengyi of property developer Hopson Development ( 0754.HK ), 
with donations totaling US$140 million in the past four years, 
and Niu Gensheng of Inner Mongolian milk producer Mengniu Group 
who has given away US$85 million, according to the Hurun 
Report.  Education is the biggest beneficiary of philanthropy 
followed by social welfare causes, healthcare and poverty 
alleviation.  Donations to charity are restricted to fewer than 20 
charities approved by the government, says UBS.  Individuals, meanwhile, can offset just 2 percent of their 
salary against tax for charitable and philanthropic donations, 
although the government plans to increase that to 12 percent as 
soon as next year.  That's still low compared with a 25 percent tax exemption 
in Hong Kong and 20 percent in Taiwan, but it's a start and 
should trigger much higher contributions, analysts say.  Poor tax incentives and difficulty in establishing a 
charity in China have encouraged wealthy Chinese to establish 
foundations in neighboring Hong Kong, where the number of 
registered charitable foundations has doubled in the past 
decade to 1,200, according to UBS.  "The Chinese government is trying to encourage people to 
make charitable donations but it also needs to define who can 
set up a charity much more clearly," said Calvin Lam, a tax 
partner at accountants Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu DLTE.UL.
  PHILANTHROPIC HUB  Under an overhaul of China's corporate tax system due to 
come into effect next year, companies will be able to deduct up 
to 10 percent of their profits from tax for charitable 
donations.  UBS expects environmental causes to become one of the four 
biggest beneficiaries of charitable donations in China in a few 
years.  "Philanthropists try to take care of poverty first. As the 
economy matures they look more at the environment," said Terry 
Farris, head of UBS' Asia-Pacific philanthropy services.  Beijing's tax incentives track a regional trend. Singapore 
is scrapping a rule that 80 percent of donations must be made 
locally, aiming to make the city state a philanthropic hub. 
Japan is due to relax rules next year to stem a slowdown in 
donations.  In a sign of Asia's growing clout, former U.S. President 
Bill Clinton will hold his annual philanthropic summit in Hong 
Kong next year.  China accounts for 21 percent of the wealth of 
Asia-Pacific's U.S. dollar millionaires, second to Japan which 
accounts for 44 percent, according to a report by Merrill Lynch 
MER.N and Capgemini ( CAPP.PA ). China's millionaires -- 30 
percent of whom are female -- mostly rely on business and stock 
options for their wealth, whereas inheritance and income are 
the main wealth sources of rich Japanese.  China is also home to nearly a third of Asia-Pacific's 
super rich, or those with more than $30 million in assets, 
according to Merrill Lynch and Capgemini.  (Editing by Anne Marie Roantree)