-- `Bloody Sunday' Report Finds U.K. Forces Unjustifiably Shot 1972 Marchers
-- Colm Heatley
-- 2010-06-15T16:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/-bloody-sunday-report-finds-soldiers-unjustifiably-shot-marchers-in-1972.html

          
          
             British soldiers unjustifiably shot
and killed 13 civilians in Derry, Northern Ireland, in 1972,
according to an official report published today into the
massacre known as “ Bloody Sunday .”  
 The dead, all of them Catholics, were taking part in a
civil rights march in the majority Protestant province when
troops opened fire on Jan. 30 that year. Fourteen others were
shot and wounded. The report found the order to fire shouldn’t
have been given and the victims were unarmed.  
 The events of “Bloody Sunday” escalated the  conflict  in
Northern Ireland between the nationalist Irish Republican Army
and the British Army as well as Protestant paramilitary groups
loyal to the U.K. Some 479 people were killed in the conflict in
1972, compared with 171 the year before.  
 “What happened on Bloody Sunday strengthened the IRA,
increased nationalist resentment and hostility towards the army
and exacerbated the violent conflict,” the Saville Inquiry,
which heard evidence from 921 witnesses between 2000 and 2005,
said in its report. “It was a tragedy for the bereaved and the
wounded, and a catastrophe for the people of Northern Ireland.”  
 The findings in the report may lead to the prosecution of
the soldiers involved in the shootings and multimillion pound
compensation claims for the victims’ families, newspapers
including the  Sunday Times  have reported.  
 Cameron Apology  
 U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said the decision on
legal proceedings was one for the Director of Public
Prosecutions, the country’s senior prosecutor.  
 “It’s important I don’t say anything today that would
prejudice either a criminal prosecution or a civil one should it
be brought,” Cameron told parliament.  
 In his speech, Cameron apologized for the behavior of the
soldiers and said standing up for the army doesn’t mean
“defending the indefensible.”  
 “The conclusions of this report are absolutely clear,”
Cameron, who came to power last month, told lawmakers in
parliament in London. “What happened on Bloody Sunday was both
unjustified and unjustifiable.”  
 Thousands of people gathered in the Guildhall square in
Derry, cheering just before the report was released at 3:30 p.m.
U.K. time as relatives of some of the victims showed their
thumbs up to the crowd. The shootings took place a 10 minute
walk away in the Bogside area of the city.  
 ‘Whizzing’ Bullets  
 “The bullets were whizzing all around us,” said Gerry
Duddy, 53, whose brother, Jackie, was one of those killed. “He
was just 16 and for years afterwards I was very angry. After the
murders people were queuing up in the streets in Derry to join
the IRA. Bloody Sunday was responsible.”  
 The U.K. government agreed to hold the inquiry in 1998 as
part of the  peace deal  that helped end the three-decade long
conflict that began in 1969 and claimed 3,500 lives.  
 As part of the deal a power-sharing  assembly  was created
and Sinn Fein, the political wing of the IRA agreed, to pursue
its goal of a united Ireland peacefully.  
 “Today’s the day when truth has been set free,” Irish
Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said in Dublin today. The report will
help “heal gaping wounds,” he said. “It’s a short distance
between the Bogside and Guildhall, but the journey that was
completed today took 38 years.”  
 The Saville Inquiry, which has cost an estimated 190
million pounds ($280 million), rejected an official probe held
in 1972, which said the British Army had been fired on first and
some of the dead had been handling bombs and guns.  
 No Warning  
 The army fired the first shots and no warning was given by
soldiers, the report led by Lord Saville found.  
 “All our people killed that day were innocent and for the
authorities to deny that that was the case just alienated me
from the state further,” said Michael McKinney, 58, whose 27
year-old brother, Willie, was killed by the U.K.’s Parachute
Regiment that day. “The report has been a long-time coming, but
this is an opportunity for the British to try to make amends.”  
 The  U.S. State Department  said in an e-mailed statement it
hoped the publication of the report would help Northern
Ireland’s “ongoing transformation from a turbulent past to a
peaceful future.”  
 Gerry Adams , president of Sinn Fein, the IRA’s former
political wing, said the report consigned the previous inquiry
to history and published the truth.  
 “They were unarmed, they posed no threat and they were
completely innocent,” he said in a statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Colm Heatley  in Derry at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        