-- 407 International Sells Debt; Infrastructure Funding Rises: Canada Credit
-- Sean B. Pasternak
-- 2010-06-15T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/407-international-sells-debt-as-infrastrucure-funding-rises-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Toll-road operator 407 International
Inc. sold C$800 million ($781 million) in bonds, a signal that
more infrastructure companies may sell debt as Canadian
governments fund improvements to schools, roads and hospitals.  
 The 407 Highway operator in Toronto sold C$500 million in
3.88 percent bonds maturing in 2015, and C$300 million in 4.99
percent 10-year notes, according to Bloomberg data.  
 The Canadian government and its provincial counterparts
have increased spending on infrastructure projects, contributing
to economic growth of 6.1 percent in the first quarter, the
fastest growth in a decade. The federal government has targeted
C$7.7 billion in such spending this fiscal year, adding to an
C$8.3 billion investment in 2009-10.  
 “There’s more activity by the provinces in public-private
partnerships,” said  Colleen Campbell , executive managing
director and head of debt capital markets at Bank of Montreal,
which led the 407 bond sale. “It’s going to be an active area
going forward.”  
 407 International is using the money to repay C$625 million
in senior notes and raise money for “general corporate
purposes,” the company said on June 11. The company, which is
owned by Montreal-based construction firm SNC-Lavalin Group
Inc., Spain’s Cintra Infraestructuras SA, and Sydney-based
Intoll Group, operates the 407 toll-road that runs around
Toronto.  
 407 International’s Chief Financial Officer  Ken Walker  said
in an interview that C$115 million of the debt raised will be
used for widening the highway and software improvements. The
C$800 million meets all of 407’s current refinancing needs, he
said.  
 Housing Bonds  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, Canada Housing Trust plans to
sell at least C$5.5 billion of bonds maturing in June 2015. The
notes may be priced to yield 43 basis points over a comparable
Canadian government bond, said  David DesLauriers , managing
director of government finance at Toronto-Dominion Bank, which
is leading the bond sale.  
 Yellow Media Inc. sold C$200 million in convertible bonds
maturing in October, 2017.  
 407 International is benefiting from the region’s “strong
economic diversification and growth prospects,” and the
province of Ontario’s plans to extend the highway eastward
contribute to the business’s “solid long-term demand profile,”
Standard & Poor’s said in a note, reaffirming its A credit
rating.  
 More Financing  
 Executives at Bank of Montreal and Bank of Nova Scotia say
they expect more debt financings from infrastructure companies.  
 “Canada, I would suggest, has a stronger pipeline than
most,” said James Vaux, Scotia Capital’s managing director of
infrastructure and government finance. “Other markets continue
to move ahead -- they just don’t have the scale and scope, and
amount of projects that are being financed.”  
 Scotia Capital last month led an C$182 million debt sale
tied to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police headquarter relocation
project in Surrey, British Columbia.  
 “The pipeline is pretty solid with respect to public-
private partnerships” in Quebec, Ontario and British Columbia,
said  Eric Beauchemin , managing director, public finance at DBRS,
a Toronto-based ratings company.  “Capital spending by
provinces is noticeably above the average of the past 10
years.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        