-- Madoff Feeder Fund Fairfield Sentry Seeks Bankruptcy Protection in U.S.
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-06-15T13:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/madoff-feeder-fund-fairfield-sentry-is-seeking-u-s-bankruptcy-protection.html

          
          
             Fairfield Sentry Ltd. , the biggest
feeder fund in  Bernard Madoff ’s fraudulent investment business,
asked a New York bankruptcy court for protection from creditors.  
 Fairfield Sentry filed a petition yesterday seeking U.S.
recognition of the bankruptcy case filed in the British Virgin
Islands in April 2009. Recognition by the U.S. court will help
identify assets and distribute them to creditors under the
foreign proceeding, Fairfield Sentry said in the filing.  
 Fairfield Sentry was a fund that took money from non-U.S.
residents and some U.S.-based tax-exempt entities to be invested
with Madoff, according to the bankruptcy petition. In its
petition, Fairfield Sentry said it has between $100 million and
$500 million in assets and no more than $500,000 in debts.  
 According to the court filing, 95 percent of Fairfield
Sentry’s assets were invested with Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC. Account statements showed $7 billion of
Fairfield Sentry assets Madoff claimed to hold in October 2008,
it said.  
 Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty in March to running the world’s
biggest Ponzi scheme. He’s serving a 150-year sentence in
federal prison in North Carolina.  
 Fairfield Sigma Ltd. and Fairfield Lambda Ltd., two funds
that channeled money to Fairfield Sentry for investment with
Madoff, also filed for protection yesterday.  
 Trustee Suit  
 Irving Picard , the court-appointed trustee in the Madoff
firm’s bankruptcy, has sued Fairfield Sentry to recover
$3.5 billion paid to it in the six years before the suit.
Fairfield Sentry seeks $6.3 billion in the Madoff bankruptcy.
Picard opposes the claim, Fairfield Sentry said.  
 Fairfield Sentry said Picard doesn’t oppose Fairfield’s
petition, under Chapter 15 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, on the
understanding that the fund won’t seek to block Picard’s suit
against it.  
 In December, Picard denied the claims of almost 8,500
investors whose money was placed with Madoff through feeder
funds, including Fairfield Sentry.  
 The Securities Investor Protection Corp., the government-
chartered agency overseeing the liquidation of Madoff’s
business, filed papers with the bankruptcy court backing
Picard’s denial of the feeder-fund investor claims.  
 The case is Fairfield Sentry Ltd., 10-13164, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        