-- Madoff Feeder Fund Investor Claims Should Be Denied, SIPC Tells U.S. Judge
-- Karen Gullo
-- 2010-06-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/madoff-feeder-fund-investor-claims-should-be-denied-sipc-tells-u-s-judge.html

          
          
             Investors who put money in hedge
funds that fed money to  Bernard Madoff ’s business should be
denied claims for repayment because they weren’t direct
customers of the con man’s firm, the Securities Investor
Protection Corp. said in a bankruptcy court filing.  
 The government-chartered agency overseeing the liquidation
of Madoff’s business asked a U.S. Bankruptcy Court judge in
Manhattan to uphold the decision of trustee  Irving Picard  to
deny claims by investors in 16 funds.  
 Almost 8,500 investors whose money was placed with Madoff
indirectly through so-called feeder funds had their claims for
repayment denied by Picard in December because they weren’t
linked to Madoff accounts. Those victims, who invested in funds
run by New York-based Fairfield Greenwich Group, investment
manager  J. Ezra Merkin ’s Gabriel Capital Corp., and Bermuda-
based Kingate Management Ltd., among others, objected to the
ruling.  
 “The hedge funds, not the claimants, were the customers of
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities,” lawyers for SIPC said
in the June 11 filing.  
 Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty in March and is serving a 150-
year sentence for running the world’s biggest Ponzi scheme.  
 David Molton, an attorney for the liquidator of Fairfield
Lambda Ltd., a shareholder of Fairfield Sentry Ltd., which was a
direct customer of Madoff, didn’t return a call seeking comment
after regular business hours yesterday.  
 The case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        