-- Magna Plan to Convert Shares Unfair, Ontario Security Commission Says
-- Joe Schneider
-- 2010-06-15T22:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/magna-plan-to-convert-shares-unfair-ontario-security-commission-says.html

          
          
             Magna International Inc. ’s plan to
end founder  Frank Stronach’s  control of the largest North
American auto-parts maker is unfair to stockholders and should
be stopped before a vote, the Ontario Securities Commission
said.  
 The commission said in an e-mailed release today it plans
to hold a hearing June 23 to consider a halt to the share
conversion.  
 The plan is “in these novel and unprecedented
circumstances, contrary to the public interest and should be
cease traded,” commission lawyers said in a filing.  
 Under the plan, the Stronach Trust would receive $863
million in cash and Class A shares for the Class B stock that
now gives the family about 66 percent of voting rights at the
Aurora, Ontario-based company.  
 Stronach, 77, has controlled Magna since the late 1970s and
said that provided an “entrepreneurial framework” for the
company’s growth. Magna stock now trades at values below its
peers because investors avoid companies with “multiple share
structures,” Chief Financial Officer  Vincent Galifi  said.  
 Economic Stake  
 Magna’s plan is a “straightforward transaction” which has
been fully disclosed to shareholders, Galifi said in a statement
today. “We believe the best course of action is for those
shareholders with an economic stake in the transaction to be
permitted to decide for themselves whether the transaction is in
their best interests.”  
 The proposal, developed by a committee of independent
directors, calls for the Stronach Trust to get 9 million new
 Class A shares , or a 7.4 percent stake, and $300 million in
cash. Magna also would establish a joint venture with the
Stronach group to develop electric vehicles and end a consulting
arrangement with Frank Stronach.  
 “The holders of the subordinate voting shares are being
asked by the board to approve the arrangement resolution without
a recommendation by the Board and without sufficient information
to form a reasoned judgment,” the OSC said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Toronto at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        