-- Thai Baht's Ichimoku Chart Signals Gains, Mizuho Says: Technical Analysis
-- Yumi Teso
-- 2010-06-15T03:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/thai-baht-s-ichimoku-chart-signals-gains-mizuho-says-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             Thailand’s baht may strengthen 0.5
percent this week after the currency passed through a key
technical level, according to Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.  
 The currency may reach the lower end of its ichimoku cloud,
which will be about 32.27 per dollar at the end of this week,
according to  Hiroyuki Tanaka , Tokyo-based chief technical
analyst at Mizuho. A decline in the baht halted near the upper
end of the same chart last week, helping to send the currency
through its “baseline,” a bullish signal, Tanaka said.  
 “The ichimoku chart seems to indicate the baht will repeat
the same pattern of extending gains after weakening to the upper
end of the cloud,” Tanaka said. “The chance is higher now for
the baht to take the lower end of the cloud.”  
 The baht traded at 32.42 per dollar as of 10:19 a.m. in
Bangkok, little changed from 32.40 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It reached 32.69 on June 7, the weakest
level since March 12.  
 The last time a decline in the baht halted near the upper
end of the ichimoku cloud was on Feb. 19 and the currency
subsequently rebounded 3.8 percent to reach 32.07 on April 21,
the strongest level since May 2008.  
 An ichimoku chart analyzes the midpoints of historic highs
and lows. The cloud is the area between the first and second
leading span lines on the chart and is used to show areas where
buy or sell orders may be clustered. The baseline is the sum of
the highest high and the lowest low over the past 26 trading
days.  
 In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        