-- Thai Government Plans to Name New Governor for Central Bank by End of July
-- Suttinee Yuvejwattana
-- 2010-06-15T06:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/thai-government-plans-to-name-new-governor-for-central-bank-by-end-of-july.html

          
          
             Thailand plans to name a new  central
bank  governor by the end of July, after deciding who among the
four shortlisted candidates can best guide an economy hampered
by the nation’s worst political violence in almost two decades.  
 The number of applicants will be reduced to at least two
before a preferred candidate is proposed to Finance Minister
 Korn Chatikavanij  later this month, said  Satit Rungkasiri , a
member of the selection committee, who declined to name them.  
 The incoming governor will replace  Tarisa Watanagase , whose
term ends in September, inheriting an economy where growth has
been hurt by political clashes that claimed 89 lives in April
and May. The Bank of Thailand kept its benchmark interest rate
at 1.25 percent on June 2, the lowest level since July 2004.  
 The central bank’s 22nd governor will be the first to win
the role through a competitive application process, Satit said.
The preferred candidate must also be approved by the Cabinet and
endorsed by Thailand’s King  Bhumibol Adulyadej .  
 Deputy Governor  Bandid Nijathaworn  confirmed last week that
he applied for the position, and said he’s ready to use his 18
years of experience with the central bank to help the country.  
 Bandid has been a deputy governor for seven years, and has
experience in formulating monetary policy and working with
financial institutions, he told reporters on June 11.  
 Prasarn Trairatvorakul , President of  Kasikornbank Pcl ,
 Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala , head of the  Securities & Exchange
Commission  and  Pisit Leeahtam , former deputy finance minister,
are the other candidates, the  Prachachat Turakij  newspaper
reported on its website today, citing an unidentified official
at the finance ministry.  
 Thailand’s economy, Southeast Asia’s biggest after
Indonesia, grew 12 percent in the first three months of 2010
from a year earlier, as exports, investment and consumption
recovered after a recession last year.  
 Bandid on June 3 said economic growth will slow this
quarter as tourists shun Thailand following the political unrest
in April and May.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        