-- Taiwan Shares to Rise Up to 15% on China Trade Pact, Union Securities Says
-- Weiyi Lim
-- 2010-06-15T03:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/taiwan-shares-to-rise-up-to-15-on-china-trade-pact-union-securities-says.html

          
          
             Taiwan shares may rise as much as 15
percent by the end of this year as the island pursues trade and
investment agreements with China, according to Taiwan’s second-
best-performing fund.  
 The benchmark  Taiex Index  may advance to 8,500 in 2010,
 Alan Ho , manager of the Union China Fund at Union Securities
Investment Trust Co., said in a telephone interview today. The
 index  yesterday climbed 1.2 percent to 7,387.40, a three-week
high, after the island and China reached an initial accord to
boost trade worth about $110 billion a year.  
 “The government may introduce more policies related to
cooperation with China to help lift the stock market,” said Ho,
whose 40.5 percent return in the past 12 months was the second
best among 384 funds active in Taiwan. “Lower tariffs will mean
Taiwan exporters have an easier time entering China’s market.”  
 The  Taiex  has fallen 9.8 percent this year amid concern
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis will lower demand for technology
exports from Asia.  UBS AG , Switzerland’s biggest bank, in May
cut its 2010 target for the  index  to 7,600, the second reduction
in three months.  HSBC Holdings Plc  this month lowered its
forecast by 20 percent to 8,000.  
 The gauge jumped 78 percent last year as Taiwan’s President
 Ma Ying-jeou  helped cement closer ties with China by abandoning
his predecessor’s pro-independence stance. Ma has been pushing
for an accord to bolster export-dependent Taiwan’s economy after
a Chinese trade agreement with the Association of Southeast
Asian Nations began this year.  
 Ruled Separately  
 Taiwan and China have been ruled separately since  Chiang Kai-shek ’s Kuomintang, or Nationalists, fled to the island after
being defeated by  Mao Zedong ’s Communist forces in 1949. China
regards Taiwan as part of its territory and has threatened to
invade if Taiwan declares formal independence.  
 Kuomintang lost seats to the Democratic Progressive party
in by-elections in earlier this year, giving the opposition
party more than a quarter of the 113-seat parliament. Voters
will get a further chance to show whether they support
Kuomintang’s policies in municipal elections in the capital
Taipei, Tainan, Xinbei, Kaohsiung and Taichung on Nov. 27.  
 The ruling party “is incentivized to provide some positive
stimulus to the market,”  Peter Kurz , whose team was ranked
first for Taiwan research by Institutional Investor for the past
three years, said in an interview in Taipei May 25.  
 There is a “basic” accord on the so-called  Economic
Cooperation Framework Agreement , though the two side are “still
working on details,”  Tang Wei , head of Taiwan, Hong Kong and
Macau affairs at China’s Ministry of Commerce, said June 13
after talks in Beijing with  Huang Chih-peng , director-general of
Taiwan’s Bureau of Foreign Trade.  
 Lower Tariffs  
 The accord would lower tariffs on more than 200 items
including car parts, petrochemicals and machinery traded from
China to Taiwan, and on about 500 items in the opposite
direction, Tang and Huang told reporters in Beijing. China is
the island’s biggest trading partner.  
 Ho said he’s buying shares of companies with businesses on
the mainland. His selections include  Clevo Co. , the owner of
Chinese electronics chain store BuyNow, and  Ruentex Industries
Ltd. , a Taiwanese company that owns a stake in RT-Mart China,
the country’s largest hypermarket chain by retail sales.  
 “China may revalue the yuan this year, so they will boost
domestic consumption to help the economy,” said Ho. “Those
companies that can profit from the local market in China will
benefit.”  
 Reform Mechanism  
 China will reform its exchange-rate mechanism based on
developments in the global economy and its own economic
performance,  Qin Gang , spokesman for the Chinese foreign
ministry, said in a statement on the ministry’s website
yesterday. China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy,
halted the currency’s three-year advance against the dollar in
July 2008 to help exporters weather recessions in the U.S.,
Europe and Japan.  
 In 2009, Taiwan’s exports to China and Hong Kong were worth
$84.7 billion while the island’s imports from China and Hong
Kong totaled $25.5 billion, Mei Jia-yuan, a section chief at the
Directorate-General of Budget, Accounting and Statistics, said
by phone yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at   Wlim26@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The skyline of Taipei  
                       
                         
                           Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Residential and commercial buildings rise out of the skyline in this elevated view of Taipei. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Residential and commercial buildings rise out of the skyline in this elevated view of Taipei. Photographer: Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
