-- AllianceBernstein, BlackRock, Top Funds Shun Stocks for Bonds, HSBC Says
-- Katrina Nicholas
-- 2010-06-15T10:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/alliancebernstein-blackrock-top-funds-shun-stocks-for-bonds-hsbc-says.html

          
          
             Thirteen of the biggest money
managers, including AllianceBernstein Holding LP and  BlackRock
Inc. , are switching out of equities and into emerging markets
and high-yield bonds, according to a survey by  HSBC Holdings Plc .  
 “Fund managers have become less bullish on equities as the
European debt crisis continues to impact the global economic
recovery,” the London-based bank’s head of global investments
for Australia,  Charles Genocchio , said in the report today.  “In
general, investors remain cautious, favoring bonds that provide
diversified exposure.”  
 Bank of America Corp.’s Global Broad Market Corporate Bond
Index has returned 3.6 percent this year compared with a 2.3
percent decline for U.S. stocks. According to HSBC, global bonds
posted the biggest capital inflows across all asset classes, of
$20.5 billion in the quarter to March 31, a 22.5 percent jump on
the prior three months, while high-yield and emerging market
bonds recorded inflows of $6.1 billion, up 9.6 percent.  
 Three in four respondents were bullish, or optimistic, on
emerging-market equities for the second quarter, while 88
percent held an “overweight” view on global emerging markets
and high-yield debt. Overweight means buying more than the
benchmark suggests. Those bullish toward European bonds dropped
to 29 percent from 50 percent.  
 Although no fund managers held underweight views on stocks
in Asia outside Japan, 63 percent said they were “neutral”
going into the second quarter, up from 30 percent the first
quarter of 2010. Asian speculative-grade dollar debt, which
ranks below BBB- at Standard & Poor’s, has returned 5.33 percent
this year, HSBC indexes show.  
 HSBC’s quarterly survey, conducted in April and May,
canvassed 13 of the world’s top fund managers by funds under
management and money flows.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        