-- Man Group Won't Make Significant Acquisitions After GLG, CEO Clarke Says
-- Tom Cahill
-- 2010-06-15T10:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/man-group-s-ceo-clarke-says-he-won-t-make-significant-purchases-after-glg.html

          
          
             Man Group Plc , the largest publicly
traded hedge-fund firm, doesn’t expect to make “significant”
acquisitions after its purchase of GLG Partners Inc., Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Clarke  said.  
 “It is effectively job done for our liquid trading
strategies,” Clarke, 49, said today at the  GAIM International 
hedge-fund conference in Monaco. “It’s possible we could infill
with smaller mergers in Asia-Pacific.”  
 Man Group last month agreed to buy  GLG  for $1.6 billion to
expand its range of funds. The acquisition will create a firm
with a combined $63 billion in assets, easing dependence on  Man
AHL Diversified Plc , an investment program that accounts for
more than half of Man Group’s holdings.  
 AHL has gained 4.6 percent this year, after posting a drop
of 17 percent in 2009, its first annual loss, according to
Bloomberg data. Hedge funds rose 1.3 percent this year through
the end of May, according to Chicago-based  Hedge Fund Research
Inc. ’s Fund Weighted Hedge Fund Composite Index.  
 “It is increasingly looking like a world of volatility and
uncertainty and CTAs historically do well in that environment,”
Clarke said in a panel discussion at the event. The CEO expects
the acquisition of GLG to be “earnings enhancing,” bringing a
return on capital within three years.  
 Man Group gained 0.4 percent to 245.9 pence as of
11:40 a.m. in London, giving the company a market value of
about 4.2 billion pounds ($6.2 billion).  
 Hedge funds are private, lightly regulated pools of capital
whose managers can buy or sell assets, bet on falling as well as
rising asset prices and participate in profits from money
invested.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Cahill  in London at 
 tcahill@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        