-- Anadarko, Transocean Shares Climb on Reduced Gulf Spill-Liability Concerns
-- Edward Klump
-- 2010-06-15T21:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/anadarko-transocean-shares-climb-on-reduced-gulf-spill-liability-concerns.html

          
          
             Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  and
 Transocean Ltd.  rose in New York trading on optimism that their
liabilities in the worst oil spill in U.S. history will be
limited because of BP Plc’s actions at the Macondo well in the
Gulf of Mexico.  
 Anadarko has a 25 percent stake in the project. The
company, based in The Woodlands, Texas, climbed $2.71, or 6.5
percent, to $44.71 as of 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. Geneva-based Transocean, which leased to BP
the Deepwater Horizon rig that exploded April 20, increased
$3.73, or 8.3 percent, to $48.51.  
 U.S. Representatives  Henry Waxman  of California and  Bart Stupak  of Michigan said yesterday in a letter to BP that “time
after time, it appears that BP made decisions that increased the
risk of a blowout to save the company time or expense.” The
lawmakers, both Democrats, said BP’s possible “carelessness and
complacency have inflicted a heavy toll on the Gulf.”  
 “There’s more and more information coming out that could
support the idea that BP really messed up here, and therefore
when all the liabilities are claimed, that they will have to pay
more than” the company’s 65 percent share in the well, said
 Philip Dodge , an analyst at Tuohy Brothers in New York.  
 Well Design  
 The lawmakers described five questionable decisions by BP
before the explosion. That included the well design and
procedures to ensure the cementing was sound. The decision on
testing the cement was called “horribly negligent” by an
expert the committee consulted, according to the letter.  
 Halliburton   Co. , which provided cementing services,
increased $1.44, or 6 percent, to $25.46. BP’s American
depositary receipts gained 2.4 percent to $31.40.  
 Dodge said it will take years of legal activity before the
ultimate liabilities are known. He said the idea that Anadarko
may not be liable for all of its 25 percent stake is helping its
stock, while service providers also appear in a better light.  
 “If it looks like BP is more vulnerable to negligence, why
then the tradeoff would be less concern about Transocean and
Halliburton,” Dodge said.  
 Guy Cantwell , a Transocean spokesman, and Teresa Wong, a
Halliburton spokeswoman, declined to comment on today’s stock
moves. BP didn’t immediately return a phone message seeking
comment.  
 John Christiansen, an Anadarko spokesman, said the company
is studying the letter from lawmakers and is waiting for BP’s
testimony before making formal comments.  
 Since April 20, when the spill occurred, Transocean has
tumbled 47 percent, Anadarko has dropped 40 percent and
Halliburton has fallen 24 percent. BP’s American depositary
receipts have declined 48 percent in that period.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        