-- Argentine GDP Warrants Climb to 1-Month High on Economic Growth Outlook
-- Drew Benson
-- 2010-06-15T21:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/argentine-gdp-warrants-climb-to-1-month-high-on-economic-growth-outlook.html

          
          
             Argentine warrants linked to gross
domestic product rose to the highest price in a month as
investors bet that growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy will trigger payments.  
 The dollar-denominated GDP warrants rose 0.1 cent on the
dollar to 7.35 cents at 4:34 p.m. New York time, the highest
since May 18.  
 “Any way you look at them, the warrants remain below their
theoretical value,” said  Sabrina Corujo , an analyst with online
brokerage Portfolio Personal SA in Buenos Aires. “With growth
expected to be around 5 percent, they remain interesting.”  
 Warrants and bonds climbed as the nation’s offer to
restructure $18.3 billion worth of defaulted bonds held out of a
2005 settlement nears its June 22 deadline.  
 Argentina’s restructuring offer includes the warrants, as
well as dollar bonds due in 2033 and bonds due in 2017 to pay
past-due interest. The offer doesn’t include past-due payments
on the GDP warrants.  
 The warrants help determine the value of the offer, in net
present terms, which is worth about 43 cents on the dollar for
institutional investors, according to RBS Securities Inc.  
 Argentine Finance Secretary  Hernan Lorenzino  met with
government and bank officials this week in Japan, where
creditors have turned in 72 percent of remaining defaulted
samurai bonds and 82 percent of euro-yen notes held out of the
2005 settlement, the Economy Ministry said in a statement today.
That brings total participation by creditors holding Japanese-
law Argentina bonds to 99 percent, the ministry said.  
 Lorenzino later this week will meet with creditors in
Italy, where the government estimates individual investors may
hold as much as $4 billion in defaulted notes.  
 Participation Rate  
 As of June 11, creditors tendered about 56 percent of the
outstanding bonds, Economy Ministry spokesman Sergio Poggi said
yesterday. Boudou has said he expects participation to reach 60
percent.  
 The annual payment on the GDP warrants, which were
distributed in 2005 to win approval for the government’s first
debt restructuring, is triggered when economic growth is above 3
percent and the inflation-adjusted value of the country’s GDP is
above the government’s base-case scenario laid out in the
warrants.  
 Holders of the warrants will receive no payment this year
because the government said the economy expanded 0.9 percent in
2009, less than the growth threshold that triggers payments on
the securities. Argentina made a warrant payment of $3.11 on
Dec. 15 after the economy grew 6.8 percent in 2008.  
 Market Return  
 President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  opened the debt
swap May 3, five years after her husband and predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner , offered creditors about 30 cents on the dollar, the
harshest restructuring terms since at least World War II,
according to  Arturo Porzecanski , an international finance
professor at American University in Washington.  
 Argentina defaulted on $95 billion in 2001 and a successful
restructuring will help the country regain access to
international credit markets. It will also lower borrowing costs
for provinces and companies that seek to sell debt.  
 Argentina will likely move to lift capital controls
following the debt swap, Buenos Aires Stock Exchange President
Adelmo Gabbi said in an interview in his office today.  
 “We believe that after the swap, the government will
undertake policies to attract foreign capital and the first step
should be to lift all barriers,” Gabbi, 66, said in an
interview in his Buenos Aires office today. “It’s indispensable
to clear the road so that international investors begin to look
at Argentina again.”  
 Argentine real estate developer IRSA Inversiones y
Representaciones SA said in a filing with the Buenos Aires Stock
Exchange yesterday that it is extending an offer to sell $250
million in 10-year bonds until June 24. The offer had been
scheduled to end yesterday.  
 The government already extended its debt restructuring
offer once, from its original June 7 deadline, in a bid to
increase participation. Boudou and Lorenzino have not mentioned
a second swap extension, Poggi said.  
 The peso was little changed at 3.9248 per dollar, from
3.9262 yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        