-- Argentina May Lift Capital Controls After $18.3 Billion Swap, Gabbi Says
-- Drew Benson
-- 2010-06-15T20:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/argentina-may-lift-capital-controls-after-18-3-billion-swap-gabbi-says.html

          
          
             Argentina will likely move to lift
capital controls following the conclusion of the country’s $18.3
billion debt swap, the head of the  Buenos Aires Stock Exchange 
said.  
 The central government and opposition leaders will support
the plan to have the Economy Ministry lift restrictions put in
place in 2005 in a bid to attract greater investment, said the
exchange’s President  Adelmo Gabbi .  
 “We believe that after the swap, the government will
undertake policies to attract foreign capital and the first step
should be to lift all barriers,” Gabbi, 66, said in an
interview in his Buenos Aires office today. “It’s indispensable
to clear the road so that international investors begin to look
at Argentina again.”  
 Under regulations put in place under then-President Nestor
Kirchner, international investors must deposit 30 percent of the
funds they bring into Argentina with the central bank for a
year. The move prompted MSCI Inc. to remove South America’s
second-biggest economy from its benchmark emerging-market index
in June 2009, assigning it frontier status along with the
world’s least developed markets, including Bulgaria and Kenya.  
 An Economy Ministry spokeswoman didn’t return a phone call
from Bloomberg News seeking comment. President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said in an Aug. 27 speech at the stock
exchange that the measures introduced by her husband helped
protect the economy from turbulence in the wake of the global
financial crisis.  
 ‘Political Year’  
 Gabbi said he’s confident that restrictions will end
because the government will want to boost investment to help
energize the economy ahead of the 2011 presidential election.  
 “We are entering into a political year and the government
needs an inflow of capital to improve the situation and get more
votes in the next election,” Gabbi said.  
 Argentina will close on June 22 an offer to restructure
$18.3 billion in defaulted bonds that weren’t tendered in a 2005
exchange. Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  has said that a
successful swap will help the country regain access to
international credit markets and lower borrowing costs for
provinces and companies that seek to sell debt.  
 Argentina’s  Merval  stock index, which rose 1.6 percent to
2,319.47 as of 3:13 p.m. New York time, is little changed this
year after surging 115 percent in 2009. A return to emerging
market status from “frontier” status could bring back as much
$10 billion in foreign funds to the market, Gabbi said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        