-- Asian Stocks Fall for First Time in Four Days on Greece Rating
-- Akiko Ikeda
-- 2010-06-15T11:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/asian-stocks-fall-for-first-time-in-four-days-on-greece-rating-downgrade.html

          
          
             Most Asian  stocks  rose after analyst
ratings on Japanese brokerages and carmakers eased concern that
Europe’s crisis of government debt will hurt corporate earnings.  
 Nissan Motor Co. climbed 3.3 percent after Citigroup Inc.
reiterated its “buy” rating.  Nomura Holdings Inc.  and Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. climbed almost 2 percent in Tokyo after
Credit Suisse Group AG boosted their investment ratings. BHP
Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, lost 0.5
percent in Sydney after Moody’s Investors Service cut Greece’s
credit rating yesterday to below investment grade.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  added 0.1 percent to 114.33 as
of 8:03 p.m. in Tokyo, with about seven stocks advancing for
every six that declined. The measure drifted between a gain of
0.4 percent and a drop of 0.3 percent. It closed yesterday at
its highest level since May 19.  
 “The market has mostly priced in the effects of the
European debt problems, though issues remain for the long-term
prospects,” said  Yoshinori Nagano , a senior strategist at
Tokyo-based Daiwa Asset Management Co., which oversees the
equivalent of $94 billion. “With the hazy outlook, investors
are more inclined to take profit.”  
 The MSCI index has lost 5.1 percent this year on concern
that Greece and other European countries will struggle to curb
their budget deficits and repay debt.  
 Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  and Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index rose less than 0.1 percent, and indexes in South Korea and
Australia were little changed. China’s markets are closed for a
three-day national holiday.  
 Taiwan Advances  
 Taiwan’s  Taiex Index  climbed 0.9 percent, the most among
benchmark gauges in the Asia-Pacific region. China Airlines Ltd.
and EVA Airways Corp. jumped about 4 percent after Apple Daily
News said that Taiwan and China may discuss more direct flights.  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  advanced 0.7
percent. The gauge lost 0.2 percent in New York yesterday after
Moody’s downgraded Greece’s debt rating.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has slumped 11 percent from its
52-week high on April 15 as swelling budget deficits prompted
Standard & Poor’s to cut ratings of Greece, Spain and Portugal.
The retreat has driven down the average price of shares in the
gauge to 14.6 times  estimated earnings . The ratio sank to 13.8
times on May 18, the lowest level since December 2008.  
 Falling Valuations  
 A gauge of consumer-discretionary stocks, which includes
carmakers, climbed the most among the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s
10 industry groups. Nissan, Japan’s third-biggest carmaker,
jumped 3.3 percent to 668 yen. Citigroup reiterated its “ buy ”
rating yesterday, saying Nissan is undervalued.  
 Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s largest automaker, advanced
1.1 percent to 3,290 yen and was the biggest support to the  MSCI
Asia Pacific Index .  
 Nomura, Japan’s largest brokerage, rose 1.9 percent to 541
yen in Tokyo, and  Daiwa  gained 1.8 percent to 402 yen. Mizuho
Securities Co. increased 4.1 percent to 229 yen. Credit Suisse
boosted its recommendations on the stocks to “outperform” from
“neutral,” saying their valuations have fallen to
“attractive” levels.  
 BHP  lost 0.5 percent to A$38.39 in Sydney. Mitsubishi Corp.,
which gets 41 percent of its sales from commodities, dropped 1.6
percent to 1,888 yen in Tokyo. Citic Resources Holdings Ltd.,
the Chinese metals producer turned energy supplier, lost 2.7
percent to HK$1.46 in Hong Kong.  
 Copper futures in New York dropped as much as 1.4 percent
today on concern that Europe’s debt crisis may worsen. Aluminum
and nickel also declined.  
 Warning Signals  
 “The stock market is sending a warning that commodity
prices will fall” if the slump in Europe weighs on the global
economy, said  Takero Inaizumi , a strategist at Mizuho Investors
Securities Co.  
 Greece’s credit rating was cut to Ba1, or junk, by Moody’s
yesterday, threatening to further undermine demand for the debt-
strapped nation’s assets as it struggles to rein in its deficit.  
 China Airlines, Taiwan’s largest carrier, advanced 4
percent to NT$15.8. EVA, the second-biggest, increased 4.1
percent to NT$19.15. Civil Aeronautics Administration director-
general  Lee Long-Wen  was quoted as saying in the Apple Daily
News report that China and Taiwan may discuss more direct
flights in October.  
 Hynix Semiconductor Inc. , the world’s No. 2 maker of
computer-memory chips, jumped 4.2 percent to 27,100 won in Seoul.
Taurus Investment & Securities Co. raised its share-price
estimate by 15 percent to 38,000 won and reiterated its “buy”
recommendation.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.3 percent to 114.55 at 1:55 p.m. in Tokyo, the highest since May 19. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
