-- Asian Stocks Reverse Loss on Recovery Signs
-- Anna Kitanaka
-- 2010-06-15T06:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/asia-s-commodity-stocks-copper-fall-after-greece-downgrade-euro-weakens.html

          
          
             Asia’s stocks reversed earlier
declines and bond risk fell on signs the European debt crisis
hasn’t hampered growth in China and as Japan extends loans to
companies to strengthen its economy. The euro weakened.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  climbed 0.1 percent to 114.26
at 3:28 p.m. in Tokyo, reversing a 0.3 percent drop on earlier
on concern Greece’s junk credit rating may curb demand. The cost
of protecting Japanese and Australian bonds from non-payment
dropped. The euro traded near a 19-month low against the pound.
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  futures were little changed while
those for the Euro Stoxx 50 Index lost 0.6 percent.  
 A leading indicator for the Chinese economy, the world’s
third biggest, rose 1.7 percent in April on a jump in new
construction work, The Conference Board said. The Bank of Japan
will offer as much as 3 trillion yen ($33 billion) in a new
credit program that will extend loans to companies for as long
as four years to support the country’s recovery.  
 “Growth is holding up pretty well,” said Binay
Chandgothia, who oversees about $2.2 billion as chief investment
officer at Principal Global Investors (Hong Kong). “The biggest
concern is how countries in Europe can control their deficits
without sacrificing too much by way of growth.”  
 Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.1 percent, Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index climbed 0.4 percent and a  measure 
tracking Chinese stocks in Hong Kong rallied 0.7 percent.
China’s domestic markets are closed for a holiday.  
 Nissan, Hynix  
 Nissan Motor Co. , Japan’s second-largest automaker, rose
3.3 percent after it was raised to “outperform” from
“neutral” at Macquarie Group Ltd. Nomura Holdings Inc. jumped
1.9 percent after Japan’s biggest brokerage was raised at Credit
Suisse Group.  
 Hynix Semiconductor Inc.  rose 4.2 percent in Seoul after
Taurus Investment & Securities Co. raised its share-price
estimate for the world’s second-largest memory chipmaker.  
 Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s
largest lender by market value, climbed 0.8 percent.  China Life
Insurance Co. , the nation’s largest insurer, increased 0.7
percent. The Conference Board’s index gained 1.7 percent to
147.1 in April, compared with a revised 1.2 percent increase in
March, it said on its website today.  
 The euro fell for the first time in four days against the
yen on speculation the 16-nation region’s economic recovery will
stall as governments cut spending to tackle the debt crisis.  
 The single currency also dropped against the dollar before
a German  report  forecast to show investor confidence in Europe’s
largest economy declined to the lowest in almost a year.  
 The Markit iTraxx Australia index fell 4 basis points to
137 basis points, Westpac Banking Corp. prices show, and the
Markit  iTraxx Japan index  lost 1 basis point to 143, Morgan
Stanley prices show. The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50
investment-grade borrowers outside Japan rose 1 basis point to
138 basis points, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting debt
against default, and the drop shows improving perceptions of
creditworthiness.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Linus Chua  at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.3 percent to 114.55 at 1:55 p.m. in Tokyo, the highest since May 19. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
