-- Asian Currencies Weaken, Led by Ringgit, Rupiah After Downgrade of Greece
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-06-15T04:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/asian-currencies-weaken-led-by-ringgit-rupiah-after-downgrade-of-greece.html

          
          
             Asian currencies declined, led by
Malaysia’s ringgit, after Moody’s Investors Service cut Greece’s
bonds to junk, spurring concern investors will shun higher-
yielding assets for the relative safety of the dollar.  
 The ringgit and the Singapore dollar slid for the first
time in five days as Moody’s yesterday cut Greece’s sovereign
rating by four levels to Ba1 from A3, citing “substantial”
risks to economic growth. Standard & Poor’s cut the
Mediterranean nation’s rating to non-investment grade on April
27.  
 The slide in Asian currencies is “due to lower overall
risk appetite after Greece’s downgrade,” said  Frances Cheung , a
senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “Asian
currencies have also been rallying for a few days in a row, so
it’s not surprising that they have come off a bit.”  
 The ringgit dropped 0.5 percent to 3.2635 per dollar as of
11:35 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Singapore dollar fell 0.2 percent to S$1.3991.
The won weakened 0.1 percent to 1,223.15.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the yen, slipped 0.1
percent. It yesterday reached the highest level since June 4.  
 Uncertainty Still Exists  
 Greece has cut spending, raised taxes and trimmed wages to
tackle its budget deficit, which swelled to 13.6 percent of
gross domestic product last year, more than four times the EU
limit. European nations including Germany, Italy and Spain have
also announced austerity measures this quarter.  
 A report later today will show retail sales in Singapore
increased 0.8 percent in April after shrinking 2.4 percent the
previous month, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Singapore
accounts for 14 percent of Malaysia’s shipments.  
 The won has dropped 7.8 percent this quarter, Asia’s worst
performance, as Europe’s debt crisis bolstered demand for
dollars and tensions with North Korea escalated over the sinking
of a warship.  
 “Uncertainty still exists,” said  Moon Hee Lee , a Seoul-
based currency trader at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
“Clients are cutting their positions. I don’t see the won
moving much, maybe in a range of 1,210 to 1,230 against the
dollar today.”  
 Taiwan’s dollar rose on mounting speculation the island
will sign a trade pact with China as early as this month.
It climbed 0.2 percent to NT$32.286, after yesterday reaching
NT$32.21, the strongest level since June 4.  
 Ties With China  
 President Ma Ying-jeou’s administration has said the
Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement, or ECFA, may be signed
this month. China is Taiwan’s biggest overseas market and No. 1
investment destination. Overseas funds bought $298 million more
of the island’s equities than they sold yesterday, a third day
of net purchases, exchange data show.  
 “The ECFA is affecting the market,” said  Henry Lin , a
currency trader at Taiwan Shin Kong Commercial Bank in Taipei.
“The environment for investments will be changed, helping
attract overseas funds.”  
 The Philippine peso was the biggest gainer among Asia’s 10
most-active currencies outside of Japan today, rising 0.5
percent to 46.38, on speculation remittances from overseas
workers, which amount to more than a tenth of the economy,
climbed in April.  
 Money sent home by overseas citizens increased 5.6 percent
from a year earlier in March, the central bank
said last month. The monetary authority will release the data
for April remittances tomorrow.  
 Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah fell 0.1 percent to 9,180 per
dollar and the Thai baht dropped 0.1 percent to 32.42. Financial
markets in China are shut today for a public holiday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        