-- Australian Mining Tax Rate Will Be 40%, Resources Minister Ferguson Says
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-06-16T07:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/australian-mining-tax-rate-will-be-40-resources-minister-ferguson-says.html

          
          
             Australia’s resource tax rate will
be 40 percent and won’t be set at different levels for various
commodities, Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  said as
companies look for a compromise on how the levy will be applied.  
 “We’re not talking about different tax rates,” Ferguson
told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio today. There will be
“generous transitional arrangements” for existing projects and
“there will be a headline rate of 40 percent.”  
 Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  has seen public support drop
since announcing his proposed tax on the “super profits” of
resource projects, a levy mining companies say will stall
investment in an industry that in April accounted for 57 percent
of the value of goods exported.  
 Australia, the world’s biggest shipper of coal and iron ore,
announced the new tax on May 2 as part of an overhaul that
includes a phased cut in company tax rates to 28 percent from 30
percent by mid-2014. Rudd’s government is holding talks with
resources companies on the plan.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd. ,  Rio  Tinto Group and Xstrata Plc met with
Ferguson today in Canberra.  
 “At present there is no formal acknowledgement from the
government” that the mining industry’s tax concerns will be
addressed, the three companies said in a joint statement after
the talks. Ferguson wouldn’t comment on the meeting.  
 Consultation Process  
 The government says 80 companies agreed to join the
consultation process that is led by a Treasury panel. A first
report outlining the issues under discussion will be released
next month and a final document late this year, according to the
government. Legislation will be put to parliament in late 2011
if the Rudd government is re-elected at a national ballot due by
April.  
 “Nothing has changed,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in
Canberra today. “We said that our bottom line was a 40 percent
rate. We said there would be generous transitional provisions
and we said we’d discuss the detail with the industry, and
that’s precisely what we’re doing.”  
 State Resources Minister  Paul Holloway  in South Australia,
home to BHP’s Olympic Dam where a A$20 billion ($17.3 billion)
expansion is under review, has called for special consideration
for the project. The mine has the largest deposit of uranium in
the world, the fourth-largest copper reserve and Australia’s
largest reserve of gold.  
 “The federal government gave us a good hearing and we’re
waiting for them to come back to us,” Holloway said in an e-
mail last week.  
 New Investments  
 Sydney-based miner and steelmaker  OneSteel Ltd. ,
Australia’s second-largest producer of the alloy, said on May 26
it wants the proposed levy to only apply to new investments.  
 “We’ll make sure, as the premier of South Australia has
raised with me and as I have discussed for example with OneSteel,
that we will take on board the special nature of their
operations,” Ferguson said today.  
 Documents released when the proposed levy was announced
said the consultation process will focus on the point at which
profits are taxed. Companies are seeking answers how the levy
will be applied to processed minerals and raw commodities.  
 “The issue of the taxing point is central to our
considerations,” Ferguson said today without providing details.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        