-- Australia's Financial System Stable Amid Global Turmoil, Reserve Bank Says
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-06-15T03:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/australia-s-economic-and-financial-systems-stable-rba-s-battellino-says.html

          
          
             Australia’s economic and financial
systems have showed a “high degree of stability” over many
years, even amid the most recent bouts of global turmoil,
central bank Deputy Governor  Ric Battellino  said.  
 That stability is “grounds for confidence that the
economic and financial structure that has evolved in Australia
is sustainable,” Battellino told a gathering of financial
executives in Sydney today.  
 Australian households have the capacity to support their
current levels of debt and the nation’s foreign liabilities
aren’t triggering any “significant disequilibrium in the
economy,” the deputy governor said. The nation’s central bank
has led Group of 20 policy makers in boosting borrowing costs
back to their average levels, giving them “flexibility” to
gauge any fallout from Europe’s debt crisis, policy makers said
in minutes of their June 1 meeting released today.  
 “It is reasonable to conclude that the household sector
has the capacity to support the current level of debt,”
Battellino told a function organized by Financial Executives
International of Australia. “Having said that, the higher level
of debt the more vulnerable households are to shocks that might
affect the economy.  
 “We at the  Reserve Bank  therefore welcome the fact that
the household debt ratio has flattened out in recent years,”
Battellino said.  
 Housing Debt  
 In 2006, household debt rose to about 1 1/2 years’
disposable income from half a year in the early 1990s, and since
then the ratio has stabilized, according to the bank. Much of
that increase is composed of housing debt, including investment
properties that are rented to tenants, while levels of credit
card, car and other forms of borrowing haven’t changed relative
to incomes over that period.  
 Part of that shift has been helped by a “structural
decline in interest rates,” according to Battellino.
Australia’s  benchmark  lending rate averaged 5.3 percent this
decade, down from 11.4 percent between 1985 and 1995.  
 “At the same time as the household debt ratio has risen,
so too have the assets held by households,” the deputy governor
said. “Second, the available data suggest that the increased
debt has mostly been taken on by households which are in the
strongest position to service it,” he said.  
 Battellino, who with Governor  Glenn Stevens  has boosted
borrowing costs six times between October and last month, also
said the central bank monitors changes in household debt “very
closely.”  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        