-- Maxis May Raise Up to $1.4 Billion to Expand, Repay Debt, CFO Rashidi Says
-- Chong Pooi Koon
-- 2010-06-16T02:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/maxis-may-raise-up-to-1-4-billion-to-expand-repay-debt-cfo-rashidi-says.html

          
          
             Maxis Bhd. , Malaysia’s biggest
mobile-phone operator, is preparing to raise as much as 4.5
billion ringgit ($1.4 billion) to upgrade its network and pay
back debt, Chief Financial Officer  Rossana Rashidi  said.  
 The carrier, controlled by billionaire  T. Ananda Krishnan ,
is in talks with bankers to weigh options that include the
company’s first sale of bonds, Rossana said in an interview
yesterday. Maxis may raise the funds in the next three to six
months, she said.  
 The funds would help the Kuala Lumpur-based  company  invest
1.4 billion ringgit on its mobile-phone and broadband networks
as revenue from voice calls shrinks. Analysts estimate Maxis’s
profit will climb to 2.46 billion ringgit this year, fueled by
demand for wireless Internet access.  
 “They need to raise long-term money to be used for capital
expenditure and a combination of other things,” said  Jeffrey Tan , an analyst at OSK Research Sdn. “Perhaps a special
dividend is one of them.”  
 OSK has a “neutral” rating on Maxis and a share-price
estimate of 5.80 ringgit.  
 Maxis  fell 0.2 percent to 5.30 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur at
10 a.m. local time, while the country’s benchmark index rose 0.7
percent. The stock has shed 1.3 percent this year.  
 Paying Back Debt  
 The company will use 2.5 billion ringgit of the proceeds to
repay a bridging loan and the rest for capital expenditure, she
said. Maxis’s initial public offering, Southeast Asia’s biggest,
raised 11.2 billion ringgit for the  parent  in November.  
 Maxis and its parent, Maxis Communications Bhd., don’t have
debt ratings. Binariang GSM Sdn., which owns a controlling stake
in Maxis Communications, is rated AA3 by Rating Malaysia Bhd.,
one of two Malaysian rating companies. That’s Rating Malaysia’s
fourth-highest rating.  
 The  mobile-phone operator  is exploring both Islamic and
conventional financing, Rossana said. It is also considering
whether to use ringgit or dollars, she said.  
 The company had 8.32 billion ringgit in liabilities as of
March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Profit is poised to climb 56 percent to 2.46 billion
ringgit this year, according to the average of 26 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company, which has more
than 12.6 million subscribers, posted  profit  of 552 million
ringgit last quarter.  
 Maxis  wants to expand its third-generation network to reach
80 percent of Malaysia’s population by the year-end, it said in
yesterday’s statement.  
 “Clearly, there’s a lot of pressure on voice,” Chief
Executive Officer  Sandip Das  said in an interview. “The next
revenue is going to come from underserved geography, data and
broadband. That’s where the company is investing big time.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chong Pooi Koon  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Maxis Communications CFO Rossana Rashidi listens during an interview in Kuala Lumpur.  Photographer: Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Maxis Communications CEO Sandip Das in an interview in Kuala Lumpur. Photographer: Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A scooter travels past the Maxis Bhd. headquarters at Kuala Lumpur City Centre (KLCC), in Kuala Lumpur. Photographer: Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
