-- Lazard President Charles Ward Retires From M&A Adviser After Eight Years
-- Michael J. Moore
-- 2010-06-15T22:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/lazard-president-charles-ward-retires-from-m-a-adviser-after-eight-years.html

          
          
             Lazard Ltd. President  Charles Ward ,
a protégé of former Chief Executive Officer  Bruce Wasserstein ,
retired from the firm after more than eight years at the largest
independent merger adviser.  
 Ward’s retirement is effective immediately, the Hamilton,
Bermuda-based firm said today in a regulatory filing.  Ashish Bhutani , chief executive officer of Lazard Asset Management,
will take over Ward’s duties as chairman of the asset management
group, according to the filing.  
 Ward, 58, is the highest-ranking Lazard executive to depart
since Wasserstein died in October and  Kenneth Jacobs , 51,
succeeded him the following month. Ward sought a new job and
held talks with rival firms, including Evercore Partners Inc.
and Perella Weinberg Partners LP, which was co-founded by his
former boss,  Joseph Perella , people with knowledge of the matter
said last month.  
 Judi Mackey , a Lazard spokeswoman, declined to comment on
whether the firm has replaced Ward as president.  
 Ward was an investment banker under Wasserstein and Perella
at First Boston from 1979 to 1988, then helped them form
Wasserstein Perella & Co., the advisory boutique, where he was
president. He later returned to First Boston Corp., by then
known as Credit Suisse First Boston, where he ran investment
banking. Ward left CSFB in 2002 to join Wasserstein at Lazard as
president.  
 Ward will continue to receive his salary until Sept. 30,
and his restricted stock awards will continue to vest as
scheduled, subject to his compliance with certain non-compete
and confidentiality agreements, Lazard said. Ward’s total pay
for 2009 was valued at $3 million, according to a proxy
statement filed in March.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        