-- Bank of Japan to Offer 3 Trillion Yen to Spur Corporate Loans
-- Keiko Ujikane
-- 2010-06-15T09:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/bank-of-japan-to-offer-33-billion-in-funds-for-new-lending-program.html

          
          
             Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  widened efforts to support economic growth even as he
signaled that the export-led recovery is beginning to feed
through to households and companies.  
 “We are seeing signs that the increase of  exports  and
 output  is starting to spread to private domestic demand,”
Shirakawa said at a press briefing in Tokyo today after his
policy board unveiled a 3 trillion yen ($33 billion) program
aimed at encouraging lending to businesses.  
 The effort is a sign of greater cooperation between the
bank and the government, which has since late 2009 urged the
BOJ to do more to end deflation. A counterpart to that pressure
has been central bankers’ calling for officials to rein in
Japan’s public  debt , and Shirakawa today said it’s “extremely
important” that fiscal policies earn investors’ confidence.  
 “Setting aside its effectiveness, the new program at
least contributes to improve relations between the government
and the BOJ,” said  Takehiro Sato , chief Japan economist at
Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. in Tokyo.  
 The loans will be channeled through banks, and the central
bank will accept requests from lenders through March 2012, it
said in a  statement . Credit will be extended at the  benchmark
interest rate , which the board today unanimously voted to keep
unchanged at 0.1 percent.  
 The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  closed 0.1 percent higher,
the fourth straight gain, after earlier dropping as much as 0.5
percent. The yen traded at 91.30 per dollar at 10:32 a.m. in
London from 91.52 before the announcement. The yield on Japan’s
benchmark 10-year bond fell half a basis point to 1.225 percent.  
 Complement Government  
 Shirakawa instructed his staff to develop the plan in
April, and said at the time that it was intended to complement
the government’s forthcoming strategy to spur Japan’s growth
prospects.  
 Newly appointed Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  is expected to
unveil the economic plan, along with a roadmap to restore
fiscal health, before going to a Group of 20 summit later this
month. Vice Finance Minister  Motohisa Ikeda  told reporters
after attending today’s BOJ meeting that the loan program is
“appropriate” and consistent with the growth strategy.  
 “I hope the new government will proceed with appropriate
policies to solve the various problems facing Japan’s
 economy ,” Shirakawa said. He said G-20 finance officials
meeting earlier this month “shared the view that it’s
necessary to achieve sustainable public finances as well as
implement credible policies to achieve economic growth.”  
 Fiscal Remedies  
 Kan, who advocated fiscal discipline as finance minister
in the previous administration, said in a speech last week that
Japan could “go bankrupt” if remedies aren’t taken. Japan’s
public debt is approaching 200 percent of the economy, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development estimates.  
 “The BOJ’s sending a message to the government that there
should be a growth plan on top of a commitment to fiscal
discipline,” said  Noriaki Matsuoka , an economist at Daiwa
Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.  
 In today’s statement, the central bank said it anticipates
the loan program will spur an acceleration of economic growth.
Some economists don’t share that conclusion, judging it too
small to make an impact.  
 “The new program is unlikely to make any contribution to
growth in Japan,” said  Hirokata Kusaba , a senior economist at
Mizuho Research Institute Ltd. in Tokyo. “The new
administration won’t relent from pressure on the central bank
to do more as it strives to restore the soundness of public
finances without jeopardizing growth.”  
 Stock Sales  
 The measure is smaller than the combined 3.8 trillion yen
in stock sales undertaken by  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. 
and its two largest rivals since December 2008.  
 Companies already have sufficient cash and there is little
need for them to borrow to increase spending, said  Kiichi Murashima , chief economist at Citigroup Global Markets Japan
Inc. in Tokyo.  
 Bank lending fell 2.1 percent in May from the same month a
year before, the sixth straight drop and the steepest since
August 2005, a BOJ report showed earlier this month.  
 “We judge the main reason of the stagnant loan growth in
Japan is lack of loan demand under some structural economic
weakness, not the lack of liquidity in financial institutions,”
 Seiji Shiraishi , chief economist for Japan at HSBC Holdings Plc
in Tokyo, wrote in a note today.  
 The BOJ’s corporate-loan program “will not be a decisive
catalyst for domestic-demand led sustainable recovery,”
Shiraishi said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians walk past the Bank of Japan headquarters in Tokyo. Photographer: Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Naomi Fink, a strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., talks about the Bank of Japan's plan to offer as much as 3 trillion yen ($33 billion) in loans to companies in an effort to strengthen the economic recovery.
     Fink speaks with Mark Barton on Bloomberg Television's "Global Connection." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Ben McLannahan of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team talks with Bloomberg's Scarlet Fu about the Bank of Japan's 3 trillion yen ($33 billion) program aimed at encouraging lending to businesses. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
