-- Cap Bankers' Bonuses at Half Pay, EU Lawmakers Say
-- Ben Moshinsky
-- 2010-06-15T15:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/bankers-bonuses-should-be-capped-at-half-their-salary-eu-lawmakers-say.html

          
          
             Bankers’ bonuses should be capped at
50 percent of their pay, lawmakers on a  European Parliament 
committee said, as they voted on tougher capital and
remuneration rules for banks.  
 Directors at banks that received public funds would also
have their salaries capped at 500,000 euros ($616,000), and at
least 40 percent of any bonus would be deferred for five years,
under the measures approved by the assembly’s  Economic and
Monetary Affairs Committee  in Strasbourg, France yesterday.  
 “If bankers and traders want to leave and go to other
jurisdictions, it just shows that they do not have confidence in
their own performance,” Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the
committee, said in an e-mailed statement today. “To those that
would leave I say good riddance.”  
 Lawmakers around the world have blamed bonuses for the
excessive risk-taking that contributed to the worst financial
crisis since World War II. Sweden proposed laws last year that
would force bankers in Europe to defer part of their bonus for
three years and receive at least 50 percent in shares.  
 The plans for bankers’ pay will be voted on by the whole EU
Parliament in July. The measures are proposed changes to draft
rules on bank capital published last year by the  European
Commission , the 27-nation EU’s executive body.  
 ‘Short-Sighted’  
 “I think it’s extremely short-sighted,”  David Buik , a
market analyst at inter-dealer broker BGC Partners in London,
said in a telephone interview today. “I understand the
political expediency, I’m quite happy with capital requirements,
but don’t kill off invention and innovation.”  
 Under the Parliament plan, bankers would be forced to hold
on to 90 percent of up-front bonus payments for at least five
years, in case their employers needed the money back to cope
with short-term funding problems. Directors at banks that
received public money would be barred from getting a bonus until
the state funds had been repaid.  
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s chairman  Philip Hampton 
was booed by investors at the bank’s annual general meeting in
April after saying that investment banking salaries were
“high,” though not “obscene.” The bank received a 45.5
billion-pound taxpayer rescue following record losses in 2008.  
 “RBS has led the way in reforming the structure of pay --
no reward for failure, full clawback and deferral and no cash
bonuses for all but the most junior staff,” Michael Strachan, a
spokesman at RBS, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 ‘Positively Aligned’  
 “We want the interest of the person receiving the bonus to
be positively aligned with the customers and the shareholders,”
 Syed Kamall , a U.K. conservative member of the EU parliament,
said in a telephone interview today.  
 “If we start capping bonuses it’s possible we’ll end up
with a situation where there’s a much higher basic salary and
less of an incentive to perform well,” Kamall said.  
 Draft EU laws need the approval of governments and the
Parliament before they can take effect, a process that can take
more than a year.  
 “The public won’t accept, in the era of austerity, people
to make such huge amounts of money,”  Peter Skinner , a U.K.
Labour member of the EU parliament, said in a telephone
interview today. “I saw people in the middle, left and right
support it,” Skinner said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The European Union flag and those of its member states fly outside the Louise Weiss Building at the European Parliament in Strasbourg. Photographer: Adam Berry/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
