-- Banks Block OTC Derivatives Clearing in `Proxy War' for Profit, Group Says
-- Shannon D. Harrington
-- 2010-06-15T22:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/banks-block-otc-derivatives-clearing-in-proxy-war-for-profit-group-says.html

          
          
             Wall Street’s largest banks are
blocking smaller firms from using over-the-counter derivatives
clearinghouses as a “proxy war” to protect the money they make
from trading swaps, according to a brokers’ association.  
 Rules intended to lessen the risk of a systemwide failure
are “working to restrict access to only the incumbent
dealers,” the Swaps and Derivatives Market Association said in
a statement sent today to  Theo Lubke , senior vice president at
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The group of more than 20
brokers including Jefferies & Co., Imperial Capital LLC and
Newedge USA LLC formed in February to lobby Congress and
regulators for access to derivatives clearing.  
 Intercontinental Exchange Inc. ,  CME Group Inc.  and other
companies that operate clearinghouses for the $615 trillion
privately negotiated derivatives markets enforce capital
requirements and trading rules intended to bolster the ability
of the clearinghouses to withstand losses. Those requirements,
though, prevent all but the world’s largest banks, including
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc,
from sending trades to the clearinghouses, according to the
statement by the brokers group.  
 “The effort to protect clearing, however, is actually a
proxy war to limit competition to the incumbent dealers’ $100
billion in profits for derivatives execution,” the brokers
group said.  Mike Hisler , a spokesman for the association, and
Ray Zorovich, the group’s policy assistant, are listed as
contacts on the statement. Hisler also is a partner at New York-
based Hexagon Securities LLC, a member of the association.  
 ‘Economic Self-Interest’  
 Clearinghouses should want to offer clearing to as many
qualified users as possible to maximize profits, according to
the statement. “However, the clearinghouses are not acting in
their own self-interest; they are influenced by the incumbent
dealers and are thus acting in the dealers’ economic self-
interest.”  
 The Federal Reserve, the New York State Banking Department
and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission have signed off
on Intercontinental’s ICE Trust structure and membership
requirements, spokeswoman  Sarah Stashak  said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 “Over time we may able to modify the requirements subject
to regulatory approval,” she said. “However, at a time of
great stress in the financial system it was prudent to focus on
getting the bulk of CDS transactions -- which are held by major
dealers -- into a clearinghouse in order to reduce systemic
risk.”  
 Congressional Push  
 Goldman Sachs spokesman  Michael DuVally , Barclays spokesman
 Brandon Ashcraft  and JPMorgan spokesman  Justin Perras  declined
to comment.  
 The debate about access takes place as Congress seeks to
empower regulators to dismantle failing financial firms deemed
to pose a systemic threat to the economy. Limiting the number
and types of firms that can join derivatives clearinghouses
concentrates too much risk there, the excluded firms say.  
 At stake is access to the privately negotiated derivatives
markets that generated an estimated $28 billion in revenue last
year for the five biggest U.S. dealers, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan,
Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc.,
according to company reports collected by the Federal Reserve
and people familiar with banks’ income sources.  
 Size Requirements  
 Only firms with a net worth of at least $5 billion are
allowed to be members of the largest credit-default swap
clearinghouse, Intercontinental Exchange’s  ICE Trust . At CME
Group’s venture, that requirement is $500 million. Both demand
expertise in the market, including swaps-trading desks that can
provide prices for the contracts at the end of the day. Those
prices are used to determine margin payments to the
clearinghouse.  
 Smaller brokers should be able to partner with independent
dealers to provide end-of-day prices, according to the
statement.  
 Clearinghouses should want to offer clearing to as many
qualified users as possible to maximize profits, the group said.
“However, the clearinghouses are not acting in their own
self?interest; they are influenced by the incumbent dealers and
are thus acting in the dealers’ economic self?interest.”  
 “The dealers’ have a circular argument because an
actionable pricing requirement only exists because of the lack
of an exchange and is merely a temporary solution under the
current bilateral OTC market that the dealers themselves are
trying to preserve,” the group said. “Once price transparency
is achieved, volumes will migrate to price transparent products
and actionable pricing requirements will no longer be needed.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        