-- Wall Street Bonuses Should Link to Debt, Harvard's Bebchuk Says
-- Christine Harper
-- 2010-06-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/bank-bonuses-should-also-be-linked-to-bond-values-harvard-s-bebchuk-says.html

          
          
             Bonuses for Wall Street’s top
executives should be tied to a basket of the firm’s securities,
including bonds and stocks, to align managers with all
stakeholders and discourage excess leverage and risk, Harvard
Law School Professor  Lucian Bebchuk  said.  
 Under current stock-based compensation arrangements,
executives are “not exposed to the potential negative
consequences that large losses could impose on other
contributors to the capital structure, like preferred
shareholders, bondholders and depositors,” Bebchuk said in a
conference call with reporters yesterday.  
 Wall Street chief executive officers including  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. ’s  Lloyd Blankfein  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s
 Jamie Dimon  continue to receive pay awards that are made up of
restricted stock. Because banks carry more debt than equity, a
better compensation system would also link executives’ pay to
the performance of bonds and preferred stock, Bebchuk said.  
 “We could tie the payoffs to executives not just to the
value of common shares but to the long-term value of a broader
basket of securities,” Bebchuk said. “So, for example, instead
of giving executives 3 percent of the value of the firm’s common
shares, you could give them, say, 1 percent of the aggregate
value of the common shares, preferred shares and bonds.”  
 Goldman Sachs, which paid Blankfein a $9 million all-stock
bonus for 2009, carried about $64 billion in common equity at
the end of December compared with $230 billion in preferred
stock and short- and long-term unsecured debt, according to a
company filing.  
 ‘Wages of Failure’  
 JPMorgan, which paid Dimon $17 million of restricted stock
units and options for 2009, had $157 billion in common equity
compared with $330 billion in preferred stock, long-term debt
and other borrowed funds, a company filing showed.  
 Bebchuk has been a vocal critic of Wall Street pay
practices. His “Wages of Failure” paper last year showed that
top officials at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Bear Stearns
Cos cashed in $2.5 billion in the eight years before their firms
collapsed in 2008. Bebchuk said the study helped counter the
“standard narrative” that compensation didn’t contribute to
the financial crisis because the executives’ finances were tied
to their firms’ fortunes.  
 He made his remarks yesterday on a call hosted by the
 Investor Responsibility Research Center Institute , a four-year-
old New York-based not-for-profit organization that funds
environmental, social and corporate governance research. He
spoke about  three papers  he has helped write about executive
compensation in the financial industry.  
 European Proposals  
 In March, the European Parliament’s top financial lawmaker
made a similar recommendation when she advocated paying bankers’
bonuses in subordinated debt rather than shares or cash to limit
the type of risk-taking that contributed to the financial
crisis.  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the assembly’s Economic and
Monetary Affairs Committee, said bonuses would be held for five
years in a pool that the bank could use as capital to absorb
losses.  
 Bankers’ bonuses should be capped at 50 percent of their
pay, lawmakers on the EU committee said yesterday, as they voted
on tougher capital and remuneration rules for banks. The plan
will be voted on by the whole EU Parliament in July.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        