-- Barcelona Plans $103 Million Bid for Torres, Daily Mirror Says: Roundup
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-06-15T09:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/barcelona-plans-103-million-bid-for-torres-daily-mirror-says-roundup.html

          
          
             The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web:  
 Barca Wants Torres  
 Barcelona is preparing a 70 million-pound ($103 million)
offer for Liverpool striker  Fernando Torres , the  Daily Mirror 
said.  
 New Barca president Sandro Rossell has a close relationship
with Torres and is determined to bring him to the Nou Camp “at
all cost,” the Mirror said. That could affect the club’s effort
to add Arsenal captain Cesc Fabregas as it may struggle to sign
both players, the newspaper said.  
 Chelsea and Manchester City are also interested in Torres,
the Mirror said.  
 Chiellini Bid  
 Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  will make a 25
million-pound bid for Italy and Juventus center-back  Giorgio Chiellini , the  Sun said .  
 Ferguson wants the 25-year-old in case he loses  Nemanja Vidic , who has been linked with a move to rival Manchester City,
the Sun said.  
 Benayoun Moving  
 Chelsea is closing in on a 6.5 million-pound agreement with
Liverpool for  Yossi Benayoun , the  Daily Mail  said.  
 Former Liverpool manager  Rafael Benitez  was reluctant to
sell the midfielder to the Blues for less than 10 million pounds
and had a 7.5 million offer from CSKA Moscow, the Mail said.
Benayoun didn’t want to relocate to Russia and has provisionally
agreed to a four-year contract with the Premier League champion,
the newspaper said.  
 Liverpool Exodus  
 Ryan Babel ,  Albert Riera  and  Philipp Degen  could be among
the players following Benayoun out of Liverpool, the  Times said .  
 The three are up for sale as Liverpool continues its search
for a manager, the Times said. The futures of captain  Steven Gerrard , Fernando Torres and  Javier Mascherano  are also in doubt
after the Reds missed out on next season’s Champions League.  
 Hart to Hull?  
 Former Portsmouth and Crystal Palace manager  Paul Hart 
could be named the new Hull coach by the weekend, the  Mirror 
said.  
 Hull is turning to Hart because it’s unable to buy out Dave
Jones’s 750,000 pounds-per-year contract at Cardiff and match
his salary because of debt problems, the Mirror said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        