-- BG Group Holds Talks With Prime Minister Over Australia's Resources Tax
-- James Paton
-- 2010-06-15T07:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/bg-group-holds-talks-with-prime-minister-over-australia-s-resources-tax.html

          
          
             BG Group Plc , the British company
planning an Australian liquefied natural gas project that may
cost A$15 billion ($13 billion), met with Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  to discuss the government’s proposed resource profits tax.  
 The U.K.’s third-biggest natural gas producer will consider
a final investment decision on the Queensland venture later this
year if it has “acceptable fiscal terms” and environmental
approvals,  Catherine Tanna , head of BG’s Australian unit, said
in a statement distributed today in Canberra.  
 Santos Ltd.  and Origin Energy Ltd. have said that
uncertainty surrounding the government’s plan to impose a 40
percent tax on resource project “super profits” is likely to
delay development decisions on their Queensland coal-seam gas-
to-LNG projects. BG’s talks with Rudd come amid speculation that
the government may compromise, allowing the ventures to operate
under a tax applied to offshore oil and gas projects.  
 “The theory is that such a move would remove the
uncertainty surrounding the fiscal terms applicable to these
projects, allowing them to proceed as planned, but still provide
a means for the government to apply a 40 percent rent tax,”  Nik Burns , an analyst at RBS Morgans, wrote in a June 11 report.  
 The tax proposal, introduced May 2, threatens to reduce the
profitability of the coal-seam gas projects, analysts including
 John Young  of Wilson HTM Investment Group have said.  
 Project Delays  
 Santos aims to make a decision on its Gladstone LNG venture
later this year, as opposed to the mid-year target it set out
earlier. Origin said the tax may affect the timeline of its
project with U.S. energy company ConocoPhillips.  
 Origin is “engaging with the government” as part of the
consultation process over the tax,  Tim Scott , a spokesman for
the Sydney-based company, said today. Santos also is in talks,
said  Matthew Doman , spokesman for the Adelaide-based company.
The companies declined to comment on specific meetings.  
 “I understand the importance of this sector,” Resources
Minister  Martin Ferguson  told parliament today after what he
said were “productive” talks with Tanna, also attended by Rudd
and Treasurer  Wayne Swan .  BG’s project in Queensland represents
a potential investment of A$12 billion to A$15 billion, he said.  
 Santos fell 0.7 percent to A$13.40, while Origin dropped
0.4 percent to A$15.47. The  S&P/ASX 200 Index  was little changed.  
 BG’s Queensland Curtis LNG venture will initially produce
at least 8 million metric tons of LNG a year and is expected to
generate more than 5,000 jobs during construction, the gas
company said today. Tanna said March 18 that she had a “high
degree of confidence” the Reading-based company would make a
final decision in 2010.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net ;
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        