-- Blue Financial Falls to Record Low as CEO Quits, Loss Exceeds Market Value
-- Renee Bonorchis
-- 2010-06-15T10:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/blue-financial-services-chief-van-niekerk-to-quit-for-non-executive-role.html

          
          
             Blue Financial Services Ltd. , a
South African provider of unsecured loans, fell to the lowest
price in its history after Chief Executive Officer  Dave van Niekerk  said he plans to quit as the company faces losses 10
times bigger than Blue’s market value.  
 Blue , which lost 91 percent of its value in the past 12
months, slid as much as 7 cents, or 33 percent, today to 14
cents, its lowest price since the shares started trading in
Johannesburg in October 2006. Since last June, the  FTSE/JSE AltX
Index  has slumped 36 percent.  
 “I’m going to be a non-executive director, and we’ll
appoint a new CEO,” Van Niekerk, 36, said in a telephone
interview from Pretoria.  Mayibuye Group Ltd. , the private equity
company buying as much as 65 percent of Blue and recapitalizing
it, is restructuring the board, he said.  
 Blue, which said today it will report a loss of as much as
1.05 billion rand ($140 million) for the year through February,
has operations in 13 African countries and expanded quickly
before the global financial crisis forced lenders to conserve
capital. With impairments rising, the value of its assets
falling and increased difficulties in raising capital, Blue
started to report losses last year. On June 10 Mayibuye offered
to buy stock and recapitalize the lender.  
 Impairments ‘a Buffer’  
 Mayibuye, after completing due diligence at Blue’s offices
across Africa that, in part, caused Blue to be almost three
weeks late in releasing its full-year results, sees the lender’s
“big impairments as a buffer and can launch products and card
offerings” through Blue’s branches, according to Van Niekerk,
who said Blue will remain listed.  
 Blue’s listing on the stock exchange in Johannesburg wasn’t
suspended after missing the three-month deadline to release
full-year results because the JSE “needed to give them an
opportunity with the interests of investors and the shares at
heart,” said Michelle Joubert, the JSE’s head of investor
relations.  
 Blue will issue new shares for the sale to Mayibuye while
all shareholders’ stakes, including  Absa Group Ltd. ’s 20 percent
of Blue, will be diluted, Van Niekerk said. Absa, which took a
stake in Blue last year when clients defaulted on payments
related to single-stock futures contracts, has “fully
endorsed” the deal and plans to remain a shareholder, he said.  
 Blue, with a market value of 93.7 million rand, fell 6
cents, or 29 percent, to 15 cents as of 11:24 a.m. in
Johannesburg trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        