-- BP Bankruptcy Would Be No Protection From Gulf Spill Costs
-- Linda Sandler
-- 2010-06-15T20:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/bp-bankruptcy-would-offer-no-protection-from-gulf-damages-cleanup-costs.html

          
          
                  June 15 (Bloomberg) -- BP Plc , whose potential liability for
the Gulf of Mexico oil spill has lawmakers and analysts raising
the specter of bankruptcy, would be unlikely to avoid paying
claims by seeking court protection, restructuring experts said.  
 The spill, the worst in U.S. history, threatens wetlands,
wildlife, fishing and tourism in five states. BP has spent more
than $1.43 billion to stop the leak and clean it up, and to
compensate local businesses and residents since the April 20
explosion of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig.  
 The U.K. energy company faces more than 200  lawsuits , and
the U.S. is assessing the cost of restoring natural resources
destroyed or fouled by the spill. BP’s liabilities include $37
billion in cleanup and potential litigation expenses, according
to a June 2 Credit Suisse report. While a U.S. bankruptcy may
halt many claims, it wouldn’t allow BP to avoid paying for most
of the cleanup and damages, said New York bankruptcy lawyer
 Martin Bienenstock  of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP.  
 “It’s highly unlikely the claims would be so large that BP
would pay any valid claims less than in full,” said
Bienenstock, who advised  General Motors Co.  and Chrysler
Financial Corp. in their bankruptcies. “The environmental
claims and other claims would all ride through bankruptcy and be
paid in the normal course.”  
 BP said it won’t seek court protection. “We categorically
deny those rumors,” said  David Nicholas , a company spokesman.  
 Lowest Price  
 BP fell today to its lowest price in 13 years, down 48
percent from the day the oil rig blew up, killing 11 workers.
The cost to protect $10 million of BP debt for a year reached
$695,000, according to CMA DataVision. It was $29,000 on April
30. The shares fell 13.45 pence to 342 pence in London trading,
the lowest price since April 1997.  
 “The bankruptcy option is clearly there,” said John
Olson, managing partner of Houston Energy Partners, a hedge fund
unit of  Sanders Morris Harris Group Inc . “BP’s board and CEO
can say they’ve ruled it out, but you can’t rule it out,
realistically.” Olson doesn’t hold any BP shares.  
 On June 13, White House Adviser  David Axelrod  called on BP
to establish an escrow account for claims tied to the spill.
U.S. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  requested that the
London-based company set up a $20 billion fund administered by
an independent trustee, according to a letter from his office.  
 The Obama administration should consider placing the
company in receivership to preserve its assets because BP is
likely to end up in bankruptcy, said Representative  Steve Cohen ,
a Tennessee Democrat. Louisiana State Treasurer  John Kennedy 
agreed, saying bankruptcy is a possibility and state and federal
governments need to plan for it. The spill has sullied or
threatened the coastlines of Louisiana, Alabama, Mississippi,
Florida and Texas.  
 ‘Ability to Pay’  
 The plan by state and federal governments to stop the
gusher, clean it up and compensate victims “is all predicated
on BP’s ability to pay for these objectives. And I say we need a
plan in the event that it cannot pay for these objectives,”
Kennedy said. “I don’t want us to miss a beat in the event that
BP decides to seek protection of the U.S. bankruptcy laws.”  
 Such a U.S. bankruptcy filing, restructuring experts said,
wouldn’t protect BP from liability for damage and cleanup costs
stemming from the disaster. It may simply provide the company
with a single venue from which to pay claims quickly.  
 Environmental Bankruptcy  
 In last year’s settlement of the largest-ever U.S.
environmental bankruptcy, all claims were paid in full by the
debtor, mining company  Asarco LLC , said Gregory Evans, a lawyer
at Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCloy LLP in Los Angeles.  
 Asarco paid $1.8 billion in restoration and cleanup costs
for water, land and air pollution at 100 sites across the U.S.
under the auspices of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Corpus
Christi, Texas.  
 The Asarco court employed a process called estimation,
which lets injured parties and the company present evidence of
claims directly to the judge on an expedited basis.  
 Estimation removed trial lawyers from the process and
skirted years of potential delays, said Evans, who helped lead
Tucson, Arizona-based Asarco through the bankruptcy.  
 “The perception is that a company runs to bankruptcy to
avoid its environmental liabilities,” said Evans. “But if the
assets are there to pay a claim, and the judge decides the
amount is fair, then that is what is owed.”  
 Every Dollar Asked  
 After a federal judge discharged Asarco from bankruptcy in
December, Associate U.S. Attorney General  Tom Perrelli  said
taxpayers got more than a dollar back for every dollar asked.  
 BP, the largest oil and gas producer in the Gulf of Mexico,
may put all or part of the company into Chapter 11 bankruptcy,
said  Lynn Lopucki , a law professor at the University of
California, Los Angeles. That would immediately halt spill
litigation against it and place all claims under the control of
the bankruptcy judge, he said.  
 “All claims could be liquidated expeditiously using the
bankruptcy code’s magical estimation power, and the company
could set aside an amount of stock or cash flow to pay off the
estimated claims over a period of years,” Bienenstock, the New
York bankruptcy lawyer, said.  
 The alternative to seeking court protection might be a
“nightmare” lasting five or 10 years as BP dealt with claims
while its stock remained under a cloud, he said.  
 Houston Energy Partners’ Olson said that while bankruptcy
is “a plausible tactic” to protect BP’s North American assets,
“any whisper of bankruptcy is something the short sellers would
be likely to encourage.”  
 Public Sentiment  
 While providing an organized, single venue for addressing
spill-related claims, a Chapter 11 filing might also inflame
public sentiment. President  Barack Obama  said in an interview
with NBC News broadcast June 8 that he’s looking for “whose ass
to kick” and that BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward 
“wouldn’t be working for me.”  
 “Political pressure can change what judges do. It would be
very difficult for any judge to make a ruling in favor of BP
right now,” said Lopucki. “It’s better right now for BP to
avoid any court decisions.”  
 A bankruptcy filing would carry risks for BP management,
including Hayward and the board, Lopucki said.  
 “The people in charge are generally forced out,” he said.
“Bankruptcy seems to accelerate the process.”  
 BP wouldn’t succeed in assigning liability to a subsidiary
that is subsequently placed into bankruptcy because creditors
may seek to reverse the move, said  John Penn , an attorney at
Haynes & Boone LLP in Fort Worth, Texas, and a former president
of the American Bankruptcy Institute.  
 Evans, the Asarco lawyer, cited the example of  Exxon Mobil
Corp.  and the two decades of litigation it faced over the 1989
Exxon Valdez oil spill as a justification for letting judges,
not juries, resolve the claims.  
 “Everyone deserves representation, but not to the point of
the company spending 10 years circling the drain,” Evans said.
“Justice delayed is justice denied, even for the company.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net  and;
 Linda Sandler  in New York at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An oil-covered water bottle sits on a public beach at Gulf State Park in Orange Beach, Alabma. Photographer: Kari Goodnough/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Fadel Gheit, managing director of oil and gas research at Oppenheimer & Co., talks about the outlook for BP Plc following the biggest oil spill in U.S. history.
     BP Plc’s credit rating was cut six levels to two above junk by Fitch Ratings on concern over the potential cost of cleaning up the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and meeting future liabilities. Gheit speaks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Jane Coffey, head of equities at Royal London Asset Management Ltd., talks about the firm's investment in BP Plc shares.
     Coffey speaks with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
