-- Yields on BP-Backed Municipal Bonds Surge to 10% on Gulf Spill Concerns
-- Martin Z. Braun
-- 2010-06-15T21:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/bp-backed-municipal-bond-yields-surge-to-10-on-concern-over-spill-s-costs.html

          
          
             Interest rates on some floating-rate
municipal bonds guaranteed by  BP Plc  have surged to as much as
10 percent on concern that the costs of cleaning up the Gulf of
Mexico oil spill and litigation are spiraling higher.  
 Yields on short-term bonds backed by London-based BP to
build sewage and solid-waste disposal facilities at a chemical
plant in Will County, Illinois, and a refinery in Texas City,
Texas, that are now at 10 percent were as low as 0.5 percent at
the start of June. The maximum rate BP will pay on the bonds is
15 percent, according to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking
Board’s disclosure  Web site . BP backs more than $3.5 billion of
U.S. municipal obligations, according to Bloomberg data.  
 “There’s too much unknown, that’s why rates are spiking,”
said  Matt Dalton , chief executive officer of  Belle Haven
Investments Inc.  in White Plains, New York, who oversees about
$450 million in assets and sold BP-backed municipal debt today
after buying some two weeks ago. President  Barack Obama  “is
changing the rules of the game as we go along.”  
 BP had its credit rating cut six levels to two above
speculative grade, or BBB from AA, by Fitch Ratings after Obama
and U.S. lawmakers said this week that BP should suspend
dividends and save the money for legal claims. U.S. Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said BP should set aside $20 billion.
The cost of cleanup and liabilities may reach $40 billion,
Standard Chartered Plc estimated last week.  
 Yield Premium  
 The yield premium investors demand to hold the company’s
corporate debt has also increased. BP’s $1.5 billion of 3.125
percent bonds due in 2012 traded at 8.13 percentage points more
than similar-maturity government debt, up from 5.61 percentage
points yesterday.  
 Not all BP-linked municipal bonds have reached 10 percent.
Yields on debt issued by municipal utilities to prepay natural
gas supplied by the company have risen to 5 percent.  
 The Public Energy Authority of Kentucky Inc. issued about
$1 billion of bonds in 2006 as a prepayment for 170.4 billion
cubic feet of gas delivered over 10 years. Ratings on the
Kentucky authority bonds, which mature in 2016, are based on
BP’s long-term credit ranking because the company guarantees the
obligations of the BP unit that supplies the gas.  
 Interest rates on the energy authority bonds, which reset
daily, rose to 5 percent today from 4.5 percent yesterday and 1
percent on June 1. BP has guaranteed liquidity for the bonds,
agreeing to buy securities tendered by investors.  
 No Obligation  
 BP and other private corporations are able to issue a
limited amount of municipal bonds through local governments to
finance projects. The bonds aren’t obligations of the
municipalities, so taxpayers won’t have to pay off the debt if
 BP  files for bankruptcy.  
 Unlike typical municipal securities, which are exempt from
federal taxes, the interest on debt issued by local governments
on BP’s behalf is subject to the alternative minimum tax.  
 By contrast, interest on bonds sold by municipal utilities,
such as Kentucky’s public energy authority to pay for natural
gas, is exempt from federal taxes.  
 Dalton said he would change course and buy the bonds if the
interest rate declines to 4 percent.  
 “There will be buyers once there’s clarity,” he said.
“Once the smoke clears and there’s more clarity to the future
of BP, you will see a recovery in rates.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        