-- BP Can Make It Up to U.S. With Future Profits: Alice Schroeder
-- Alice Schroeder
-- 2010-06-15T01:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/bp-can-make-it-up-to-u-s-with-future-profits-alice-schroeder.html

          
          
             How much should BP Plc pay in
damages for the Deepwater Horizon catastrophe? The Gulf of
Mexico could be as emulsified as vinaigrette by the end of
summer. One model shows oil may have migrated up the East Coast
by then. No one really knows how bad it will be, only that it
keeps getting worse.  
 President  Barack Obama  has proposed that BP set aside a
substantial escrow fund, modeled after the Sept. 11th Victim
Compensation Fund, that will ensure the company meets its
obligations. But the 9/11 fund, while an obvious comparison, is
the wrong precedent to use for this case.  
 The most important flaw in Obama’s plan is that it has no
way to balance current claims against unknown claims that emerge
over time. Almost all of the 9/11 claimants were known
immediately, whereas a slowly developing disaster like this one
may have effects that span decades. The most practical way to
address them is to create a trust fund for future claims and
cleanup. Yet no one can know how large a fund is required.  
 The better  precedent  to use is roofing maker  Johns Manville
Corp. , which sank under asbestos claims in 1982 and became the
then-largest bankruptcy in U.S. history. The Manville Personal
Injury Settlement Trust came into being in 1987 and has since
paid $4 billion in claims to 718,757 victims of asbestos-related
injuries such as mesothelioma. As of March 31, the trust still
held $1 billion of assets that will be used to pay 15,866
remaining claims, along with any new ones that may arise.  
 Class Actions  
 Manville was plagued by class-action lawsuits, which
delayed claim resolution and enriched plaintiffs’ lawyers. The
Manville Trust and the bankruptcy court modified payouts,
bundled claims and streamlined the settlement process.
Eventually, the company was sold to  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. ,
with the majority of the sale proceeds going to the trust.  
 Applying a Manville Trust-like solution to BP would achieve
many goals. BP  earned  $16.6 billion last year, a huge stream of
income. If America negotiated a deal with the U.K. to settle
U.S. lawsuits against BP by moving it into prepackaged
bankruptcy with a court-appointed receiver and replacing its
management, the company could repay victims and cover the
environmental costs from its continuing operations.  
 A bankruptcy has a benefit in that it isn’t an anti-British
move; it is a way of prioritizing claims on earnings. Bankruptcy
preserves the rights of BP’s lenders. Although it would be a
harsh outcome for shareholders, the expected role of equity
investors in a bankruptcy is to be paid last-dollar,
subordinated to other claimants.  
 Future Claims  
 In my proposal, instead of simply selling BP to raise
funds, the bankrupt BP continues to operate as an independent
company and begins to pay earnings into a trust fund for future
claims and cleanup, as overseen by the court.  
 Even though the trust fund would begin to pay claims to
victims immediately, the residual earnings in the trust could
over time amount to billions or tens of billions of dollars.
Such a large amount means that today’s and tomorrow’s claims
would be paid using consistent formulas, providing relief for
years to come.  
 Whatever BP earns, pays and sets aside, this proposal also
would ensure that for some period of time -- a decade, say --
everything goes to restitution for the Deepwater Horizon
calamity. After that, BP would emerge from bankruptcy and be
sold, becoming independent once again. This would yield another
one-time lump-sum addition to the trust, and possibly a residual
for equity holders.  
 Too Low  
 Implicitly, I am proposing more money be set aside than
Wall Street estimates currently contemplate, now as high as $70
billion. The reason is that the costs of the  Deepwater Horizon 
debacle, the largest environmental disaster in history, are
indeterminable. Yet it is clear they shouldn’t become socialized
as long as BP has earnings available to pay them. Minimizing any
taxpayer burden must be a key goal of any resolution.  
 The widespread, long-lasting and lethal asbestos damages
that led to the Manville bankruptcy are the closest analogy we
have to the potentially global, unknowable, long-tail risks
posed by Deepwater Horizon. We should learn from this precedent
that a planned, efficient bankruptcy and restitution trust would
enable BP to survive and eventually return to private hands. It
would preserve jobs while compensating all victims. It would
avoid windfall payments to lawyers.  
 This template is just as applicable to  Transocean Ltd. ,
BP’s partner, which set a benchmark for moral despicability in
the guise of shareholder value when it fruitlessly petitioned a
U.S. federal court under an 1851 maritime act to limit its
liability to less than $27 million.  
 Last week, the British government begged the U.S. to
“remember the economic value BP brings to people in Britain and
America.” Of course we will remember. The economic value of the
Gulf of Mexico, the coast of Florida, and other maritime and
coastal areas sit on the other side of that ledger.  
 Give BP’s earnings to the public, and maybe we’ll call it
even.  
 ( Alice Schroeder , author of “The Snowball:  Warren Buffett 
and the Business of Life” and a former managing director at
Morgan Stanley, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Alice Schroeder  at  aliceschroeder@ymail.com   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        