-- BP Oil Spill Lawsuits Spread to States Beyond Gulf Coast
-- Margaret Cronin Fisk
-- 2010-06-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/bp-oil-spill-lawsuits-spread-to-states-beyond-gulf-coast-as-losses-mount.html

          
          
             BP Plc  faces more than 225 lawsuits
in 11 states as litigation from businesses, individuals and
investors continues to increase almost two months after the
Deepwater Horizon oil rig exploded.  
 In addition to scores of claims brought in five states
along the Gulf shore, coastal businesses and property owners in
Georgia and South Carolina have sued for damages from the
drifting oil, which has yet to round the southern tip of Florida
and enter the Atlantic Ocean.  
 Investors in three states, including Louisiana and Alaska,
have sued BP’s  board of directors  for allegedly causing more
than $50 billion in shareholder losses by failing to implement
safety policies that would have prevented the spill. In a
separate class-action lawsuit in Florida, the company is accused
of “a pattern” of criminal acts including fraud. That suit
seeks triple damages under federal civil racketeering law.  
 “The damage is not just suffered at ground zero along the
Gulf Coast,” said  Mark Lanier , a Houston lawyer representing
dozens of fishermen and property owners against BP. “The shock
waves reverberate across state lines and across occupational
lines.”  
 A judge may decide there isn’t a strong enough connection
between some damage claims and the spill itself and those claims
will be thrown out, Lanier said yesterday in a phone interview.
“But we’re not at that point yet,” he said.  
 Primary Liability  
 BP, as owner of the underwater lease, has primary liability
for damages caused by the tens of millions of gallons of crude
oil that have spewed from the damaged well since the April
explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon. Almost all the
lawsuits also name  Transocean Ltd. , which owned the rig, along
with  Cameron International Corp.  and  Halliburton Energy Services
Inc. , which provided the rig’s blowout prevention equipment and
cementing services, respectively.  
 David Nicholas , a BP spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment yesterday.  
 BP America Inc. Chairman  Lamar McKay  told Congress in May
that the company will pay all “legitimate” claims related to
the spill. On June 2, Credit Suisse estimated the combined
cleanup, restoration and litigation costs of the spill could top
$37 billion.  
 President  Barack Obama  said yesterday in a televised speech
that he will tell BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  in a White
House meeting today that the London-based company must set aside
“whatever resources are required to compensate the workers and
business owners who have been harmed as a result of his
company’s recklessness.”  
 Securities Lawsuits  
 Three  lawsuits  claiming securities fraud were filed by BP
investors in federal courts in Louisiana. The lawsuits, each
seeking to represent buyers of BP American depositary receipts
in a class action, claim the company and its officials inflated
 share values  by issuing “materially false and misleading
statements” about BP’s safety record and protocols.  
 “BP’s procedures for minimizing its financial losses from
drilling rig problems were no more than fantasies,” said
lawyers for the Johnson Investment Counsel in a June 7 filing in
Lafayette, Louisiana. “BP was simply not the enterprise that
its public communications pictured.”  
 The lawsuit claims BP’s actions cost investors more than
$56 billion in share value by May 25. The plaintiff is an
investment holding company, said its attorney  Stanley M. Chesley 
at Waite, Schneider, Bayless & Chesley in Cincinnati.  
 Directors Targeted  
 At least five so-called derivative lawsuits brought by
shareholders on behalf of BP were filed against current and
former officers and directors of the company. These lawsuits,
filed in state and federal courts in Alaska, Delaware and
Louisiana, contend that company mismanagement led to the April
20 explosion.  
 The spill “is a catastrophe of epic proportions brought by
the greed and fraudulent conduct of BP,” according to a civil
racketeering lawsuit filed June 12 in Florida that names as
defendants the company, various corporate entities, and Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Hayward .  
 The lawsuit alleges that BP “successfully infiltrated”
the Minerals Management Service, the federal regulatory agency
overseeing off-shore drilling, and “systematically submitted
unsubstantiated and erroneous exploration and oil spill response
plans and lease agreements.”  
 Although oil has yet to leave the Gulf of Mexico, three
proposed class-action lawsuits were filed last week in federal
court in Charleston, South Carolina, on behalf of property
owners, tourism-related businesses, real estate companies and
other businesses in six coastal counties. Lawyers involved in
those cases say fears the slick will foul beaches later this
summer already have caused tourists to cancel trips and vacation
rentals.  
 ‘Already Hurting Us’  
 “The actual spill may not have reached our shores but the
effects have,” attorney Aaron Jophlin of the Bell Legal Group
LLC in Georgetown, South Carolina, said in an interview. “We
hear the effects from our friends and neighbors that, man, it’s
already hurting us.”  
 Owners of condominiums and hotels in Alabama and the
Florida Panhandle, where oil is now washing ashore on beaches
regularly listed among those with the world’s whitest sand, have
filed dozens of lawsuits over lost business. Charter boat
operators, fishing guides, marinas, souvenir vendors and
watercraft-rental shops as far south as the Florida Keys are
suing.  
 Some of New Orleans’s largest convention hotels, including
the Marriott Convention Center and Wyndham Riverfront, have sued
over bookings they claim they will lose now and into the future.
Meeting planners, who work years in advance, may avoid booking
conventions in coastal resorts just as they did after Hurricane
Katrina devastated much of the central Gulf Coast in 2005,
lawyers for the hotels say.  
 Katrina Effect  
 While most New Orleans hotels and restaurants reopened
fairly quickly after Katrina, “We still had a tail of lost
business for a couple of years” as meeting planners avoided the
region, said Steve Herman, a lawyer for the hotels.  
 Restaurant owners throughout the Gulf Coast are suing over
higher seafood prices and the reduced supply of fresh shrimp,
oysters and fish, as the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration has closed 32 percent of the Gulf to commercial
fishing. About 75 percent of shrimp and 20 percent of all
seafood consumed in the U.S. comes from the Gulf, according to
papers filed in multiple lawsuits.  
 Restaurateurs also are suing over lost income, claiming
customers are avoiding seafood altogether over fears of
contamination.  
 Fishing Fleet  
 Whole fleets of fishing industry workers have arrived at
Gulf courthouses, including 11,700 individually named
Vietnamese-American commercial fishermen who filed six lawsuits
against BP and Transocean in federal court in Houston.  
 Thirty-three Mexican citizens who own or work on fishing
boats or in seafood processing plants along the U.S. Gulf coast
have sued BP and  Transocean  over lost income from the closure of
Gulf waters.  
 Residents in Kentucky and Tennessee, who own Gulf
beachfront properties, have sued over lost income from rental
cancellations as well as the lost enjoyment of their own
vacation homes.  
 “BP has grievously injured the entire country, not simply
a city, parish, county or state,” Houston attorney Michael
Holley, who represents multiple spill victims, said yesterday in
an interview. “Hundreds of thousands -- soon to be millions --
of Americans are seeking redress anywhere it can be obtained,
and the litigation will continue to spread as the oil and the
harm continues to flow.”  
 BP shares  have dropped 48 percent since the spill. They
fell 3.8 percent to 342 pence in London trading yesterday, the
lowest price since April 1997.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Two months after the oil rig Deepwater Horizon exploded, BP faces more than 225 lawsuits. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Gordon, a lawyer with Weitz & Luxenberg, talks with Bloomberg's Carol Massar and Matt Miller about the individual claims process stemming from the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Jason Kenney, head of oil and gas research at ING Commercial Banking, talks about investment opportunity in BP Plc's stock.
     Kenney also discusses the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and the BP's operations in the U.S. Kenney talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  Weitz & Luxenberg’s Gordon Discusses BP Litigation: BLAW 
     
 


                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       BP has primary liability for damages  
                       
                         
                           Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A helicopter is used to drop a 2,000 pound bag of sand to build a barrier against oil from reaching marshlands off the coast of Venice, Louisiana. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A helicopter is used to drop a 2,000 pound bag of sand to build a barrier against oil from reaching marshlands off the coast of Venice, Louisiana. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
