-- BP Well Leaking Up to 60,000 Barrels a Day, U.S. Says
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-06-16T16:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/bp-s-gulf-of-mexico-well-is-leaking-up-to-60-000-barrels-a-day-u-s-says.html

          
          
             BP Plc ’s well in the Gulf of Mexico
is gushing as much as 60,000 barrels of oil a day, the
government said, again increasing a figure officials put at
1,000 barrels more than seven weeks ago.  
 The new estimate, with a range of 35,000 to 60,000 barrels
a day, is more accurate because scientists used additional and
better data, U.S. Energy Secretary  Steven Chu  and Interior
Secretary  Ken Salazar  said yesterday in a statement posted on
the official spill-response  website .  
 The estimate is four times the average rate BP has been
capturing oil at the site. A drillship has been collecting about
15,000 barrels a day while crude continues to gush from the well
a mile below the surface. BP began burning oil and gas at a
second vessel today to reduce the amount entering the Gulf,
according to a statement.  
 President  Barack Obama  and BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg 
are meeting today at the White House to discuss funding damage
claims from the spill. The disaster was triggered by the April
20 explosion aboard the BP-leased Deepwater Horizon rig, which
killed 11 workers and prompted the biggest U.S. oil spill.  
 “I’m glad that they’re finally getting a handle on it, but
my heart sinks at how much this is,” said Ian MacDonald, an
oceanographer at  Florida State University  in Tallahassee. He
estimated the spill rate at 25,000 barrels a day on April 29,
when the official estimate was 5,000 barrels a day. “This is a
phenomenal formation that they drilled into.”  
 $50.8 Billion  
 Exceptional Gulf of Mexico wells yield 30,000 barrels a
day, MacDonald said yesterday.  
 Total cost of the spill may rise to $50.8 billion based on
the higher leak estimate,  Kevin  Book, managing director at
ClearView Energy Partners LLC, a Washington-based policy
analysis firm, wrote today in a note to clients. The analysis
assumes the leak continues through the end of August.  
 BP fell 5 pence, or 1.5 percent, to 337 pence at 4:35 p.m.
in London, the lowest price in 13 years. It has fallen 49
percent since the explosion.  
 Obama said last night he will tell Svanberg the company
must set aside “whatever resources are required to compensate
the workers and business owners who have been harmed as a result
of his company’s recklessness.”  
 The latest leak estimate was based in part on detailed
pressure measurements in the prior 24 hours and more than a week
of high-resolution video of the plume of oil spewing from the
well, according to yesterday’s statement.  
 ‘Better Data’  
 “The increased flow-rate numbers are a result of better
data that bring together the work of several scientific teams
representing the most comprehensive set of government estimates
to date,”  Kendra Barkoff , a spokeswoman for the Interior
Department, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 On June 10 the same group, comprised of government and
academic researchers, estimated the well was gushing 20,000 to
40,000 barrels a day, perhaps 50,000, before BP removed a
damaged riser pipe from the well a week earlier.  
 Yesterday’s statement didn’t elaborate on whether the team
concluded that removing the pipe to enable BP to begin
recovering oil on the drillship increased the amount escaping
from the leak.  
 ClearView’s cost analysis assumes oil spilled at the lower
rate through June 3 before the riser pipe was cut and at the
higher rate thereafter. The firm gave a range of potential
costs, from $23.7 billion, assuming BP stops the spill July 31
to $50.8 billion should the gusher last until Aug. 31.  
 Toxic Compounds  
 Oil isn’t the only threat to the environment escaping from
the well, said Florida State’s MacDonald.  
 “The emphasis has been on the discharge of oil, but at
these rates, the discharge of gas has also been truly
phenomenal,” he said. “That gas is dissolving below the
surface, with the potential to reduce the amount of oxygen and
carry forth huge amounts of benzene and other toxic compounds.”  
 BP  resumed collecting oil yesterday afternoon aboard the
drillship Discoverer Enterprise after recovery was interrupted
for five hours by a fire,  Robert Wine , a company spokesman, said
yesterday in an e-mail.  
 Oil also is flowing to the second vessel, the drilling rig
Q4000, through a separate line and crew are working to increase
recovery by both vessels as much as possible, BP said today. The
two vessels may capture as much as 28,000 barrels a day, BP
said.  
 Capturing Oil  
 BP  captured about 10,440 barrels oil yesterday, the company
said on its website. That is a decline from the 15,420 barrels
of oil the company captured June 14.  
 The company plans to boost its recovery capacity to 53,000
barrels a day by June 30 and 80,000 barrels a day by mid-July,
according to a June 13 report it submitted to the Obama
administration. It is drilling relief wells to permanently seal
the leak. These will be completed no sooner than August.  
 BP had no comment on the new spill rate estimate, Wine
said. Earlier projections were “presented as just estimates
with a wide margin of uncertainty,” he said.  
 The new estimate isn’t final,  U.S. Geological Survey 
Director  Marcia McNutt , leader of the flow rate technical group,
said yesterday. “We will continue to revise and refine,” she
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     President Barack Obama speaks during a nationally televised address from the White House in Washington D.C. Photographer: Jim Lo Scalzo/Pool via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Gordon, a lawyer with Weitz & Luxenberg, talks with Bloomberg's Carol Massar and Matt Miller about the individual claims process stemming from the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  Weitz & Luxenberg’s Gordon Discusses BP Litigation: BLAW 
     
 


                 
           
                            
                     
                     Oil floats in the water off the coast of Louisiana. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
