-- BP Suspends Oil Spill Recovery After Ship Fire
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-06-15T20:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/bp-ship-catches-fire-after-lightning-strike-causing-halt-to-oil-retrieval.html

          
          
             BP Plc  said it temporarily stopped
collecting oil from its leaking well off Louisiana after a fire
aboard the collecting vessel, allowing petroleum to again spill
unhindered into the Gulf of Mexico.  
 There was no damage as a result of the fire, which was put
out “within a few minutes,” said  Robert Wine , a BP spokesman.
Oil recovery was shut down as a precaution at about 10:30 a.m.
New York time and is expected to resume today after equipment
inspection and safety checks, Wine said.  
 The fire atop the derrick of the drillship Discoverer
Enterprise may have been caused by lightning, London-based BP
said today in an e-mailed statement. The company said there were
no injuries. The National Weather Service had forecast isolated
thunderstorms in the area.  
 “It’s just going to be an interruption,” said  Bruce Lanni , a portfolio strategist at Nollenberger Capital Partners
Inc. in San Francisco, which manages $1.2 billion. Lanni said he
and the company own BP shares. “They are going to obviously
adhere to all of the inspections to make sure that they don’t
get caught up in an issue on this one, too.”  
 The drillship had been collecting about 15,000 barrels a
day from the well for the past week, and today’s recovery rate
will fall an undetermined amount as a result of the shutdown,
Wine said. The drillship is capturing oil from a well that began
leaking after an April 20 explosion and fire aboard the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the Gulf.  
 Burning Oil  
 “If that is not bad luck, I don’t know what is,”  Fadel Gheit , an analyst with Oppenheimer & Co. in New York, said of
the lightning strike. Gheit rates the shares as outperform.  
 The fire today occurred as crew prepared to begin
collecting oil and gas aboard a second vessel, a step aimed at
reducing the amount of oil spilling into the Gulf. The rig has
been customized to burn all the oil and gas it gathers.  
 Operations may begin today on the floating rig Q4000,
expected to increase the oil-capture capacity more than 50
percent to 28,000 barrels a day,  Wine  said. The rig wasn’t
collecting oil when the Discoverer Enterprise stopped, he said.  
 A government panel estimated the well was leaking 20,000
barrels to 40,000 barrels a day before the company cut off a
kinked pipe on June 3, potentially increasing the flow rate.  
 The U.S. Coast Guard asked BP to arrange sufficient
collection equipment to capture all the oil, and provide back-up
systems in the event of a breakdown. The company submitted a
plan on June 13 saying it aims to collect as much as 53,000
barrels a day by June 30 and 80,000 barrels a day in mid-July.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        