-- BP Swaps Put Odds of Default at 39%
-- Shannon D. Harrington
-- 2010-06-16T16:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/bp-swaps-imply-35-chance-of-default-as-bonds-extend-slide-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Credit investors are pricing in a 39
percent chance  BP Plc  will default within five years as it
tangles with the Obama administration over cleanup costs and
claims for the biggest oil spill in U.S. history.  
 The default risk implied by credit-default swaps is up from
7 percent a month ago, according to CMA DataVision.  BP swaps 
climbed as much as 124.5 basis points to a record 630.6. BP debt
due next year traded today at distressed levels, with investors
demanding as much as 1,251 basis points in yield more than
Treasuries.  
 BP, whose executives met today with President  Barack Obama 
at the White House, has tentatively agreed to place about $20
billion over several years into a fund to pay compensation to
residents along the Gulf of Mexico, a person familiar with the
talks said. The company, which had $27.7 billion in  cash flow 
from operations in 2009, was cut six levels to BBB -- two levels
from junk -- from AA by Fitch Ratings because of mounting costs
from the underwater well that’s spewed crude for eight weeks.  
 “There’s still so much uncertainty as to what ultimately
the liability is and what the government is going to do,” said
 Jason Chen , a partner and head of research at hedge fund Sancus
Capital Management in New York, founded in August by former
JPMorgan Chase & Co. traders.  
 BP’s $750 million of 1.55 percent notes due in 2011 rose
0.25 cent to 92.5 cents on the dollar as of 12:26 p.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, after earlier trading
as low as 88 cents before news of the escrow fund. The bonds
traded the most ever yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Distressed  
 The securities, which rose as high as 101.2 cents in
February, pay a spread of 887 basis points. Bonds that trade
with relative yields of more than 1,000 basis points, or 10
percentage points, are considered distressed. Credit-default
swaps on BP debt were up 110 basis points, paring the earlier
rise.  
 The credit swaps price doesn’t necessarily reflect a
fundamental belief the company is at risk of bankruptcy. The
contracts are used by everyone from bondholders to derivative
trading partners to protect against or speculate on declines in
the company’s creditworthiness. Demand from banks to hedge
against losses on derivatives trades or loans can often
overwhelm investor appetite to sell protection on companies.  
 The movement in credit swaps also was exacerbated as at
least some traders increased the annual fixed payments they
demand for the contracts to 500 basis points from 100 basis
points.  
 Tristan Vanhegan , a spokesman for London-based BP, declined
to comment on default-swap and bond prices. BP scheduled an
investor briefing at 7 p.m. today in London with Chief Financial
Officer  Byron Grote .  
 BP’s ‘Recklessness’  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a protecting $10 million
of debt. Swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves.  
 In his first address to the nation from the Oval Office,
Obama said he would force BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  to
set aside “whatever resources are required to compensate the
workers and business owners who have been harmed as a result of
his company’s recklessness.”  
 Kenneth Feinberg , who also oversaw the fund that paid
families of the Sept. 11 attacks, will act as an independent
third party to judge claims and authorize payments to Gulf Coast
residents.  
 Borrowing Costs  
 BP’s shorter-term borrowing costs are rising in a signal
lenders are increasingly concerned they may face losses. BP
notes due in 2011 yield 208 basis points more than the company’s
4.75 percent bonds due in 2019, Trace data show. The shorter-
maturity debt yielded 326 basis points less as of April 29.  
 Investors typically demand additional yield on shorter-
maturity debt when risk is concentrated in the nearer term,
causing the so-called yield curve to invert.  
 BP’s cost to clean up the spill may escalate enough to
threaten the oil company’s future, said former Shell Oil Co.
President  John Hofmeister , who now runs the advocacy group
Citizens for Affordable Energy.  
 “The current political movement by the U.S. government is
basically an unlimited liability,” Hofmeister, who ran the U.S.
operations of Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Europe’s largest oil
company by market value, from early 2005 through mid-2008, said
yesterday at a Bloomberg Link Boards & Risk Conference in
Washington. “At some point the entity will have to defend
itself.”  
 60,000 Barrels  
 The BP well is gushing as much as 60,000 barrels of oil a
day, the government said, raising for the fifth time an official
estimate that had begun at 1,000 barrels a day in April.  
 BP had $6.84 billion in cash and near-cash as of the end of
the first quarter, according to a regulatory filing. It has
spent $1.6 billion to stop the leak, clean it up and compensate
local businesses and residents, according to figures posted on
the company’s website. Liabilities may reach $37 billion, Credit
Suisse Group AG estimated in a June 2 report.  
 Interest rates on some floating-rate municipal bonds
guaranteed by  BP  have surged to as much as 10 percent on concern
the costs of the cleanup and litigation are spiraling higher.  
 Yields on short-term bonds backed by BP to build sewage and
solid-waste disposal facilities at a chemical plant in Will
County, Illinois, and a refinery in Texas City, Texas, were as
low as 0.5 percent at the beginning of the month. BP backs more
than $3.5 billion of U.S. municipal obligations, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 Asset Values  
 BP bonds have lost 14.6 percent this month, after declining
2.62 percent in May, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data. The overall U.S. energy company index has fallen 1.3
percent in June.  
 The fall in BP’s bond prices has to be seen in the
“context of the asset values and the earnings capability of
this company,” said  Joel Levington , managing director of
corporate credit at Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New
York. “When you’re talking about a company that can earn $20
billion in 2011, before its dividend, that’s significant
flexibility.”  
 Bonds of some companies associated with drilling and the
spill may be attractive because their liabilities are more
easily understood than BP’s, according to Chen. The leak began
after an explosion on the Deepwater Horizon rig owned by
Transocean Ltd. Anadarko Petroleum Corp. owns 25 percent of the
well.  
 Anadarko Debt  
 Anadarko’s $750 million of 6.2 percent bonds due in 2040
fell 1.625 cents to 81.375 cents on the dollar, the first
decline in five days, Trace data show. The debt traded as low as
75 cents on June 9. Transocean’s $1 billion of 6 percent debt
due in 2018 dropped 2.06 cents to 86 cents on the dollar, the
first decline in four days.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, Bank of America Corp. sold
$1.25 billion of bonds backed by auto loans, according to a
person familiar with the transaction.  
 GMAC Inc.’s Ally Bank plans to sell $792.3 million of bonds
backed by auto loans, according to another person familiar with
that transaction.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The BP Plc company logo is displayed outside the company's headquarters in London. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Gordon, a lawyer with Weitz & Luxenberg, talks with Bloomberg's Carol Massar and Matt Miller about the individual claims process stemming from the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 17 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Representative Marsha Blackburn, a Tennessee Republican, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee from Washington about President Barack Obama’s response to the oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico, and the six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling.
     Obama said BP Plc's will put $20 billion over four years into an oil spill compensation fund that will be independently administered by lawyer Kenneth Feinberg. The fund won’t cap BP’s liability for cleanup costs and economic damage, Obama said after he and some of his top advisers met with BP executives at the White House, and it won’t supersede the rights of individuals or states to sue the company. The company also will contribute $100 million to a fund to help support unemployed oil rig workers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
