-- BP Should Weigh Rebuffing U.S. on Costs, Ex-Shell President Says
-- Janet Guyon
-- 2010-06-15T17:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/bp-should-weigh-rebuffing-u-s-on-spill-costs-hofmeister-says.html

          
          
             BP Plc  may need to offend “or even
alienate” U.S. government officials pressuring the company to
spend more money on restitution for the oil spill in the Gulf of
Mexico, said former Shell Oil Co. President  John Hofmeister .  
 BP’s cost to clean up the spill, the worst in U.S. history,
may escalate enough to threaten the London-based oil company’s
future, Hofmeister, who now runs the advocacy group Citizens for
Affordable Energy, said today at a Bloomberg Link Boards & Risk
Conference in Washington.  
 “The current political movement by the U.S. government is
basically an unlimited liability,” said Hofmeister, who ran the
U.S. operations of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Europe’s largest oil
company by market value, from early 2005 through mid-2008.  
 BP has spent about $1.6 billion to stop the leak, clean up
the oil, and compensate local businesses and residents since the
April 20 explosion of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig. U.S.
officials are increasing pressure on the company to accelerate
payments, replace lost wages of idled oil rig workers, and
suspend dividend payments to shareholders.  
 “At some point the entity will have to defend itself,”
Hofmeister said. “At what point are they willing to offend or
even alienate certain government officials in the interest of
the enterprise because the alternative would basically be to
give up the enterprise?”  
 Protecting the Dividend  
 The damaged well in the deep waters off the Louisiana coast
was gushing 20,000 to 40,000 barrels of oil a day prior to June
3, according to an estimate from scientists tasked by the
government. The spill has closed as much as 37 percent of
federal waters in the Gulf of Mexico to fishing, cut offshore
drilling in the U.S. by half and polluted at least 140 miles
(225 kilometers) of shoreline from Louisiana to Florida.  
 BP, which accounts for 12 percent of the dividends paid
into U.K. pension funds, is likely to get some help from the
British government in defending itself from the U.S., Hofmeister
said. British officials have already complained that the U.S. is
being too tough on BP, criticizing calls from members of
Congress for the company to suspend  dividend  payments.  
 “The government has an incredible interest in protecting
its enterprise, even if part of it might have to be hived off at
some point,” Hofmeister said.  
 BP, which reported profit of about $16.6 billion for 2009,
paid $10 billion to  shareholders  last year. Investors are
fleeing, pushing BP’s shares in London and  American depositary
receipts  down more than 45 percent since the explosion, wiping
out at least $90 billion in market value.  
 Change in Attitude  
 Hofmeister said a “micro-examination” of the oil spill is
needed, partly to see if the faults are systemic to the company.
In the end, BP may eventually have to sell its U.S. assets,
Hofmeister said.  
 The spill will at least prompt BP’s board and directors of
other companies to re-evaluate their preparedness for disasters,
said  Constellation Energy Group Inc.  Chief Executive Officer
 Mayo Shattuck , who spoke on the same panel with Hofmeister.  
 Directors are going to ask the “what-if questions,”
Shattuck said. “Now it’s: If it does happen, what are you going
to do about it?”  
 The nuclear industry had its wake-up call, Shattuck said,
in the partial meltdown of the Three Mile Island reactor in
Pennsylvania in 1979.  
 BP’s board  needs to be aware of constituencies beyond the
company’s shareholders, Shattuck said.  
 “The board often has to step in and make sure the
management team understands and appreciates the balance across
all constituencies,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
 Janet Guyon  in New York at 
 jguyon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        