-- BP's Dudley, Who Took on Billionaires, Fights Spill
-- Eduard Gismatullin
-- 2010-06-15T16:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/bp-troubleshooter-dudley-who-took-on-russian-billionaires-fights-spill.html

          
          
             BP Plc’s   Robert Dudley , drafted to
head the company’s cleanup in the Gulf of Mexico and repair its
reputation in the U.S., may draw on experience in Russia and
Africa for guidance.  
 During a battle for control of  BP’s Russian joint venture 
with a group of billionaires two years ago, Dudley survived
raids by  Vladimir Putin ’s secret service, overcame bureaucratic
hurdles that barred employees from attaining work permits and
outlasted a no-confidence vote, all before being forced to leave
the country. As head of drilling in Africa, he oversaw Angola,
where BP now produces from 11 deepwater fields.  
 That experience may benefit the former Mississippi resident
and 30-year oil industry veteran when he accompanies BP Chairman
 Carl-Henric Svanberg  to the White House tomorrow, as criticism
mounts from President  Barack Obama  over the company’s handling
of the disaster. Concern that the cost of the cleanup operation
and future liabilities could spiral out of control has seen BP’s
market value slump by 45 percent. BP fell 3.8 percent to 342
pence in London, the lowest price since April 1997.  
 “He fits the new job as he had worked in very difficult
conditions in Russia,” said  Ivan Mazalov , who helps manage
about $4.5 billion at  Prosperity Capital Management  in Moscow
and remembers Dudley from his stint in Russia. “He is super
calm.”  
 Day to day control for dealing with the crisis was given to
Dudley earlier this month after a series of missteps by BP Chief
Executive  Tony Hayward , which led to him being labeled “the
most hated -- and clueless -- man in America” by the  New York
Daily News . A U.S. citizen in charge may help limit further
damage to BP’s reputation, said  Greg Smith , U.K. managing
director of Fat Prophets, a stock market research firm.  
 ‘Extra Strength’  
 “Hayward has been cast as a sort of stiff upper lip Brit,
and he hasn’t handled it well in terms of the PR side,” Smith
said. “Dudley, as an American, adds extra strength.”  
 Dudley, 54, who was born in New York and grew up in
Mississippi, served as one of former BP CEO  John Browne ’s
executive assistants, a position that traditionally leads to
bigger roles. Browne wrote in his memoir of how his assistants
were known as “Turtles” after the Teenage Mutant Ninja
Turtles, because of “their speed and ability to appear whenever
they were needed.”  
 Dudley ran Amoco Corp.’s Russian operations from 1994 to
1997, before its 1998 acquisition by BP. Before running TNK-BP,
Dudley oversaw BP’s exploration and production across Russia,
the Caspian, Angola, Algeria and Egypt.  
 Rebuild Brand  
 “I don’t believe we could have a better person to lead
this organization,” Hayward said of Dudley’s role in heading
the unit that will take responsibility for the spill, as well as
rebuilding the BP brand.  
 Given his roots, growing up in Hattiesburg about 80 miles
north of the Gulf Coast and spending summers in Gulfport and
Biloxi along the water, Dudley said the damage caused by the
spill hit him hard.  
 “What I saw was painful and emotional, and shocking,”
Dudley  said  after a trip to Louisiana last week.  
 Rising public anger and attacks from U.S. lawmakers over
Hayward’s failure to halt the leak led to speculation that he
may be forced to quit, and Dudley’s name emerged as a possible
successor.  
 “Dudley is a safe pair of hands, and people should be
encouraged by that,” said  Dougie Youngson , an analyst at
Arbuthnot Securities Ltd. in London. “If he does a great job in
managing the unit, there’s no reason he can’t go to the top.”  
 Dudley has been a regular on the U.S. television circuit
since the early days of the crisis, defending the company’s
strategy, and has also sought to spread BP’s message to a
business audience.  
 ‘Frontier Risks’  
 “Operating at the frontiers of any industry is risky, and
it is that trade-off that governments, people, and industry will
make together,” he told executives in Boston on May 6.  
 Asking reporters at the same event to believe that BP had
submitted appropriate risk-management plans, Dudley said he had
seen the documents, gesturing they were about four inches thick.  
 Dudley’s latest role will put him in front of the world’s
media, a spot he last encountered as head of BP’s  TNK-BP  unit in
Russia between 2003 and 2008.  
 Ignored Interests  
 BP’s Russian partners called for Dudley’s dismissal in 2008
in a dispute over strategy at Russia’s third-biggest oil
company, alleging he ignored their interests. He denied the
charge.  
 Workers seconded by  BP  were barred from working in Moscow,
while the successor to the Soviet KGB raided its office and an
employee was charged with industrial espionage. In the end,
Dudley fled the country, citing “sustained harassment” amid
court battles and labor and tax inspections.  
 Dudley continued to run the unit from an undisclosed
location, only stepping down as part of a settlement between the
factions in September 2008.  
 His efforts in Russia were rewarded with a place on BP’s
board and the appointment as managing director for government
relations and non-operational matters in the Americas and Asia.  
 “If Dudley survived what he survived in Russia, he should
be good at this,”  Christine Tiscareno , an analyst at Standard &
Poor’s in London, said of his new job. “And he’s American so he
may understand cultural innuendos that others wouldn’t.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     BP Plc's Robert Dudley's experiences in Russia may help him to limit further damage to BP's reputation. Photographer: Michael Fein/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- BP Plc’s Robert Dudley, drafted to head the company’s cleanup in the Gulf of Mexico and repair its reputation in the U.S., may draw on experience in Russia and Africa for guidance. Dudley ran Amoco Corp.’s Russian operations from 1994 to 1997, before its 1998 acquisition by BP. Before running TNK-BP, Dudley oversaw BP’s exploration and production across Russia, Angola, Algeria and Egypt. Bloomberg's Monica Bertran reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
