-- Brazilian Bond Market `Heating Up' as Itausa, Hypermarcas Plan Local Sales
-- Gabrielle Coppola
-- 2010-06-15T14:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/brazilian-bond-market-heating-up-as-itausa-hypermarcas-plan-local-sales.html

          
          
             Hypermarcas SA, a Brazilian consumer
products maker, and  Itausa - Investimentos Itau SA , the parent
company of the country’s biggest bank, are signaling the local
bond market is starting to rebound after its slowest month since
February.  
 The companies are among five planning bond sales worth
about 4 billion reais ($2.2 billion) as concern fades that
Europe’s debt crisis will erode Brazilian economic growth.
Companies sold no bonds in the first two weeks of June after
issuing  1.4 billion reais  in May, down from an average of 6.8
billion reais the previous two months, according to the
Brazilian Association of Financial and Capital Market Entities.  
 “You have a local market that’s heating up a little more
and so we’re seeing these issues,”  Lauro Campos , superintendent
of credit at SulAmerica Investimentos, which manages 16 billion
reais in assets, said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  
 Brazilian companies are preparing local sales after demand
in international markets evaporated. There have been no overseas
offerings since Braskem SA’s $400 million issue on April 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Benchmark borrowing costs in Brazil climbed 150 basis
points, or 1.5 percentage points, since late April to 10.25
percent. An increase in price swings in international markets
eroded demand for Brazilian corporate debt. The average daily
yield swing on the country’s corporate dollar bonds increased to
five basis points since mid-April from two in the previous two
months, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  CEMBI index .  
 ‘Few Windows’  
 “You only have a few windows to sell bonds in the
international market,” Campos said. “You’re able to place
bonds in the market a little more easily here.”  
 Hypermarcas said June 11 that it plans to sell 500 million
reais of floating-rate bonds due in 2014, 2015 and 2016 to
finance acquisitions and repay bank loans. Itausa plans to issue
1.4 billion reais of floating-rate bonds, according to a May 18
regulatory filing.  
 Transmissora Alianca de Energia Eletrica SA, a Rio de
Janeiro-based energy company known as Taesa, plans to sell 600
million reais of five-year bonds to refinance debt issued last
year, according to a prospectus filed June 7. Concessionaria
Rota das Bandeiras SA, the Atibaia, Brazil-based toll-road
operating unit of Odebrecht SA, said May 20 that it may issue as
much as 1.1 billion reais of inflation-linked bonds to repay a
bridge loan.  
 Rate Increases  
 Bandeirante Energia SA, the Sao Paulo-based electricity
distribution unit of Energias do Portugal SA, said June 9 that
it plans to issue 390 million reais of six-year, floating-rate
bonds to refinance debt and increase capital.  
 “Demand for these securities is improving,” said  Paulo Petrassi , who helps oversee 70 million reais at Leme
Investimentos in Florianopolis, Brazil.  
 Spokesmen for Bandeirante, Hypermarcas, Taesa and Rota das
Bandeiras declined to comment yesterday on the sales. A
spokeswoman at Itausa didn’t return a telephone call placed
after business hours seeking comment.  
 Brazil’s central bank raised the  overnight lending rate  to
10.25 percent from a record low 8.75 percent in April to cool
the country’s fastest expansion in 15 years. Futures contracts
show traders expect policy makers will boost the rate to about
12 percent by year-end, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The bonds being offered by Hypermarcas, Itausa, Taesa and
Bandeirante are all linked to the overnight rate.  
 Sale Drought  
 The average yield on Brazilian corporate dollar debt, by
comparison, has climbed 26 basis points since the end of April
to 6.56 percent, according to JPMorgan. The  yield difference 
between Brazilian corporate debt and Treasuries has jumped 66
over that time to 326.  
 Last week marked the sixth straight without a Brazilian
corporate bond offering in international markets, the longest
stretch in 14 months. The drought snapped a record start to the
year in which Brazilian companies sold $15.1 billion of
international debt from January through April, equal to a
monthly average of $3.8 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 “Companies aren’t willing to come to market today for the
price investors want to pay,” said  Luiz Galvao , co-managing
director of Banco Bradesco SA’s investment-banking unit in Sao
Paulo. “You’ve got this little gap that naturally at some point
will decrease.”  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries narrowed two
basis points to 232 at 10:41 a.m. in New York, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index. The spread has increased from 196 at the
end of April.  
 Real Gains  
 The cost of protecting the nation’s debt against non-
payment for five years with credit-default swaps fell five basis
points yesterday to 136, according to data compiled by CMA
DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  
 The real rose 0.7 percent to 1.7991 per dollar. It is up
1.3 percent this month, following a 4.5 percent plunge in April.
The yield on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January, the most active in Sao Paulo trading, climbed two basis
points to 11.19 percent.  
 Easing concern that credit-rating downgrades in Greece,
Spain and Portugal will hurt the global recovery helped drive up
the yield on the January contract 20 basis points over the past
week as traders boosted bets on interest-rate increases to rein
in Brazilian growth and inflation that reached a 5.2 percent
annual rate in May.  
 Greece Downgrade  
 Moody’s Investors Service cut Greece’s credit rating four
steps yesterday to Ba1, or one level below investment grade,
following a similar move by Standard & Poor’s on April 27.
Brazilian foreign debt is rated BBB-, the lowest investment-
grade ranking.  
 The benchmark Bovespa stock index rose 3.4 percent over the
past week, the real jumped 3 percent and the  UBS Bloomberg CMCI
index  of 26 raw materials climbed for a sixth straight day.  
 “Things were quiet for a while due to international
markets and now companies are trying to put things out there
again,” Campos said. “We’re going to see more transactions.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paulo Winterstein  in Sao Paulo at 
 pwinterstein@bloomberg.net ;
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        