-- Bovespa Stock Index Advances to One-Month High on U.S., China Growth
-- Alexander Cuadros
-- 2010-06-15T20:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/brazil-s-bovespa-stock-index-futures-advance-on-global-economic-growth.html

          
          
             Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index rose to
a one-month high after reports showed the economies of China and
the U.S., the two biggest buyers of Brazilian exports, gained
strength.  
 Airlines  Tam SA  and  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA  led
gains after air travel by Brazilian carriers grew in May, easing
concern competition will spur lower prices. Gerdau SA, Latin
America’s biggest steelmaker, reached the highest price in a
month while Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron-ore miner,
advanced for a sixth session.  
 The  Bovespa  gained 1.4 percent to 64,442.27. Sixty stocks
rose while five fell. The  BM&FBovespa Small Cap  index climbed
1.7 percent to 1,144.27. The real strengthened 1.3 percent to
1.7870 per dollar.  
 “The negative news flow stopped a bit, helping the market
recover,” said  Joao Pedro Brugger , who helps oversee 70 million
reais ($40 million) at Leme Investimentos in Florianopolis,
Brazil. “With the World Cup we have very weak volumes, and with
Brazil playing today it’ll be even weaker.”  
 Brazil played its first World Cup game today against North
Korea, winning 2-1. Brazil’s securities and exchange commission,
known as CVM, said in a statement it will close when the
national team plays to allow employees to watch the matches.  
 The Bovespa traded 4.1 billion reais today, 39 percent
lower than the one-year average of 6.7 billion reais.  
 Fed Report  
 Most Brazilian stocks rose yesterday as higher commodity
prices and increased growth estimates by economists offset a
drop in state oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA .  
 The Bovespa increased today after the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York’s Empire State Index rose to 19.6, in line with the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the gauge that
covers New York, northern New Jersey and southern Connecticut.  
 Prices of goods imported into the U.S. fell in May,
indicating subdued inflation may give the Fed room to keep its
benchmark interest rate near zero.  
 A leading indicator for China’s economy jumped by the most
in 14 months, adding to signs that Brazil’s biggest trade
partner is maintaining economic momentum. The measure gained 1.7
percent to 147.1 in April, compared with a revised 1.2 percent
increase in March, the Conference Board said on its website.  
 Tam surged 8 percent to 26.90 reais, the most since
December.  Gol increased 7.8 percent to 22.99 reais, the most
since November, helping push the MSCI Brazil/Industrials Index
up 2.7 percent.  
 Airline ‘Surprise’  
 May traffic figures for Brazilian carriers were a
“positive surprise” as growth in domestic yields indicated
reduced “risk of another price war taking place in the domestic
market,” Banco Santander SA analyst  Caio Dias  wrote in a note
to clients today.  
 Gerdau added 1.8 percent to 25.59 reais, while Vale
advanced 1.2 percent to 42.20 reais.  
 Beef producer Marfrig Alimentos SA fell the most in three
weeks after it agreed to pay $1.26 billion to buy Keystone Foods
LLC. The stock slid 2.9 percent to 16.37 reais.  
 The purchase is negative for Marfrig because “the U.S.
foodservice business is not high-growth” and will dilute the
Sao Paulo-based company’s earnings, Raymond James & Associates
Inc. analyst  Daniela Bretthauer  wrote in a note to clients
today. Bretthauer rates the shares “underperform.”  
 The Bovespa index  trades  for 12.1 times analysts’ 2010
earnings estimates, compared with 11.8 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 15.4
times for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 13.7 times the reported
profits of its companies after fetching 25.5 times in November,
the most in almost six years, weekly data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        