-- Brazil's Real Advances on Outlook Global Economic Recovery to Boost Demand
-- Paulo Winterstein
-- 2010-06-15T15:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/brazil-s-real-advances-on-outlook-global-economic-recovery-to-boost-demand.html

          
          
             Brazil’s real climbed for the first
time in three days on speculation demand for the country’s
exports will climb as growth in the U.S. compensates for lower
demand in Europe.  
 The real rose 1 percent to 1.7931 per dollar at 11:16 a.m.
New York time, from 1.8111 yesterday. The gain pared the
currency’s drop in 2010 to 2.7 percent.  
 “Stock markets and commodities are recovering, and so the
real is also climbing,” said  Reginaldo Siaca , trading desk
manager at Advanced Corretora de Cambio, a Sao Paulo-based firm
that brokers about $1 billion of currency contracts a month.
“The markets are calmer, with signs of the U.S. economy slowly
recovering.”  
 The euro rose against the dollar for a second day. U.S.
stocks gained for the third time in four days after reports
showed manufacturing in the New York region expanded in June at
a faster pace and prices of imported goods declined in May.  
 The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index rose to 19.6, an 11th consecutive month of growth and in
line with the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in
the so-called Empire State Index that covers New York, northern
New Jersey and southern Connecticut.  
 In the overnight interest-rate futures market, the yield on
contracts due in January rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 11.20 percent.  
 The central bank will likely raise the benchmark interest
rate by 75 basis points, or 0.75 percentage point, for a third
consecutive time when policy makers meet in July, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 “With the last increase of 75 you had a pretty high rate,
and that brought some more dollars to the market,” Siaca said
in a phone interview. “With stocks recovering, the real will
likely keep appreciating.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paulo Winterstein  in Sao Paulo at 
 pwinterstein@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        