-- U.K. LBO Dealmakers Resigned to Losing Carried Interest Fight
-- Anne-Sylvaine Chassany
-- 2010-06-16T13:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/british-buyout-dealmakers-resigned-to-losing-carried-interest-tax-fight.html

          
          
             U.K. private equity executives are
lobbying against a government plan that may more than double the
tax they pay on the profit from their investments. Privately,
they say it’s a battle they’re resigned to losing.  
 The coalition government plans to increase capital gains
tax from 18 percent to rates closer to those applied to income.
Earnings of more than 150,000 pounds ($222,000) a year are
subject to a 50 percent levy. The CGT increase may raise 1.9
billion pounds, the Liberal Democrats, the coalition junior
member pushing for the levy, said before the May 6 election.  
 Carried interest, the share of profits that executives
traditionally receive as the largest part of their compensation,
is subject to capital gains tax. Dealmakers say they should be
exempt from the rise because their work fuels economic growth.
They are going to struggle to win that argument as Prime
Minister David Cameron faces a near-record  budget deficit .  
 “They are an easy political target,” said Andrew
Goldstone, the partner in charge of the personal tax and estate
planning practice at law firm Mishcon de Reya in London.
“Capital gains tax is going up, and one of the big targets will
most probably be private equity.”  
 Cameron says he plans to raise capital gains tax for “non-
business” assets, promising “generous exemptions” for
entrepreneurs. Pensioners, who face paying the levy as they sell
second homes to fund their retirements, and business owners, are
all pushing for exemptions in Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne’s  first budget on June 22. Osborne will tonight address
bankers at a dinner at the Mansion House in the City of London.  
 Tax ‘Injustice’  
 “It wouldn’t be appropriate to give private equity firms
more favorable treatment than retirees,”  Brendan Barber ,
general secretary of the Trades Union Congress, said in an
interview. “Private equity is an area of the economy where
injustice of the current capital gain tax regime is most
evident.”  
 It would be “bizarre” if the dealmakers’  carried
interest , their share of the profit from asset sales, wasn’t
considered as “business,”  Simon Walker , chief executive
officer of the British Venture Capital and Private Equity
Association, said after Cameron’s announcement last month.  
 “Raising the level of CGT to income tax levels would
actually hinder endeavors to stimulate the economy and reduce
the deficit, and result in a lower tax take,” he said.  
 Even so, taxes for the industry are likely to rise,
executives said. The BVCA, the industry’s lobby group, wasn’t
able to provide an estimate for how much the plans will cost
their members.  
 Rise ‘Almost Certain’  
 “It’s almost certain taxes are going to rise,” said  Jon Moulton , who helped start the funds that grew into CVC Capital
Partners Ltd. and Permira Advisers LLP, two of Europe’s biggest
private equity firms. “Firms have been paying very little taxes
on their carried interest in the past. They will have to learn
to work in a high-tax environment.”  
 The proposed capital gains increase would echo a draft U.S.
bill that would make partners pay income tax of as much as 35
percent on carried interest, up from 15 percent. Meanwhile, the
European Union is preparing legislation tightening disclosure
and fundraising rules for private equity firms to limit risk.  
 ‘Fair and Reasonable’  
 The changes to the capital-gains tax regime will be “fair
and reasonable,” Cameron told BBC Radio 2’s Jeremy Vine show
today, pointing that “for many years the CGT rate was 40
percent” and that “leakage” from income tax was costing the
country 1 billion pounds a year.  
 With a wider gap between income and gains tax rates, “a
lot of people turn income into capital in order to evade the tax
system,” Cameron said.  
 Lawyers and accountants are already starting to work on
ways to mitigate the increase. Some buyout fund partners may
relocate to Switzerland, said Gary Heynes, head of the private
clients group at London-based accounting firm Baker Tilly.  
 “Others are looking at crystallizing their gains now to
secure an 18 percent rate, by transferring their co-investment
or carry to a trust or a company for example,” Heynes said. The
CGT rate may rise to about 40 percent, Heynes estimates.  
 CGT generated 7.8 billion pounds in revenue from April 2008
to March 2009, before the worst of the credit crisis hit,
according to the government. Before the election, the Treasury
forecast it will raise 2.7 billion pounds for the year starting
in April 2010.  
 Carried Interest  
 Fund managers pay the 18 percent tax rate on the share of a
fund’s profit, or carried interest, they receive from investors
when all the assets have been sold above a minimum annual return
known as the hurdle. Partners also pay the levy on gains made on
their personal money they invest alongside their firms, usually
2 percent of the fund’s total.  
 U.K. firms generated about 2.1 billion pounds of carried
interest in 2007, the peak of the buyout boom, according to
estimates by London-based research firm  Preqin Ltd . Senior
partners and executives typically get two-thirds of that money,
with junior dealmakers receiving the rest, according to Preqin.
That would have netted the about 1,000 partners and top
executives who work for the 340 U.K. firms an average of 1.4
million pounds each that year, calculations by Bloomberg show.  
 ‘Two Years Late’  
 An increase in the capital gains tax to 50 percent would
have boosted a partner’s carry tax bill by 446,000 pounds to
about 700,000 pounds that year, the calculations show.  
 In the wake of the credit crisis, only a fifth of active
private equity funds in the U.K. are making carried interest as
returns dry up, according to Preqin.  
 “The argument that it would not produce much revenue is
not politically good, but economically that’s true,” Mishcon de
Reya’s Goldstone said. “The government is two years late.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.K. LBO dealmakers resigned to losing interest fight  
                       
                         
                           Suzanne Plunkett/Bloomberg 
                         
                         "It's almost certain taxes are going to rise" said Jon Moulton who helped start funds that grew into two of Europe's biggest private equity firms. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "It's almost certain taxes are going to rise" said Jon Moulton who helped start funds that grew into two of Europe's biggest private equity firms. Photographer: Suzanne Plunkett/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
