-- Builders in U.S. Lost Confidence in June After Tax Credit Ended
-- Courtney Schlisserman
-- 2010-06-15T14:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/builders-in-u-s-lost-confidence-in-june-after-tax-credit-ended.html

          
          
             Builders in the U.S. turned more
pessimistic in June than expected, signaling housing demand may
be slowing even more than anticipated after a government tax
credit expired.  
 The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
confidence  index  dropped to 17 from 22 in May, lower than all
estimates of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and the
biggest decrease since November 2008, data from the Washington-
based group showed today. Readings lower than 50 mean more
respondents said conditions were poor.  
 The figures, combined with a collapse in mortgage
applications, adds to evidence home sales and construction may
slump after the deadline to sign contracts and receive a tax
break worth as much $8,000 passed in April. The future of the
industry will now depend on the strength of employment in coming
months.  
 The incentive “brought forward a lot of attention that
otherwise would have happened later in the year,” said  James Knightley , an economist at ING Financial Markets in London whose
forecast matched the lowest in the survey. “Hopefully it will
be just a two- to three-month pause. If consumer confidence
continues to rise, if household incomes continue to rise, then
we could see a recovery perhaps in the fourth quarter of the
year.”  
 The report trimmed earlier gains in the Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite  Homebuilder Index . The measure increased 0.5
percent to 248.77 at 10:27 a.m. in New York after rising as much
as 1.1 percent earlier in the day. The  S&P 500  Index climbed 1
percent to 1,100.62.  
 Worse Than Forecast  
 The index was forecast to fall to 21 this month, according
to the  median  of 49 projections in the survey. Economists’
estimates ranged from 18 to 24. The gauge, which was first
published in January 1985, averaged 15 last year. Last month’s
reading was the highest since August 2007.  
 Manufacturing in the New York region expanded in June at a
faster pace, signaling factories are weathering the turmoil in
financial markets and leading the economic recovery, a report
today from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York also showed
today. The general economic  index  rose to 19.6, an 11th
consecutive month of growth and in line with the median forecast
of economists surveyed.  
 Prices  of goods imported into the U.S. fell in May, led by
the biggest drop in petroleum costs since December 2008, a
report from the Labor Department also showed. The 0.6 percent
decrease in the import price index followed a 1.1 percent gain
in April.  
 Breakdown of Index  
 The builders group’s index of current single-family home
sales declined to 17 from 23 in May, which was the highest in
almost three years.  
 The gauge of buyer traffic decreased to 14 from 16 the
prior month. A measure of sales expectations for the next six
months fell to 23, the lowest level since March 2009, from 27.  
 “The home buyer tax credit did its job in stoking spring
sales and we expected a temporary pull back,” NAHB Chairman Bob
Jones, a home builder from Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, said in a
statement. “However, the reduction in consumer activity may
have been more dramatic than some builders had anticipated,
which resulted in their lower confidence levels.”  
 Under the government’s incentive program, which was renewed
and expanded in November, buyers had to sign contracts by the
end of April and close on homes by June 30 to qualify for the
credit.  
 Extend Closings  
 Senator Harry Reid last week proposed a three-month
extension to the closing deadline amid concern that a rush of
buyers created too big a backlog for builders to complete
projects by the end of this month. An extension would support
housing starts and construction in coming months.  
 “We have people we need to get closed by the end of the
month,” LGI Homes Chief Executive Officer Eric Lipar said in an
interview this month. “There is a sense of urgency.”  
 Construction crews for LGI begin work at 4 a.m. and don’t
stop until 6 p.m. and usually work six days a week.  
 Helped by the credit, sales of new homes surged in April to
a 504,000 rate, the highest level in two years, according to
Commerce Department data.  
 The number of mortgage applications to purchase properties
dropped in the first week of June to the lowest level since
1997, according to figures from the Mortgage Bankers
Association.  
 The confidence survey asks builders to characterize current
sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge prospective
buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge the outlook
for the next six months.  
 Regional Breakdown  
 Builders in the Northeast led the decline, with confidence
levels dropping to 18, from 35. That was followed by a 4-point
decrease in the West, to 15, and three points in the South and
Midwest, to 19 and 14, respectively.  
 Hovnanian Enterprises Inc., the largest homebuilder in New
Jersey, earlier this month reported a narrower loss for the
fiscal second quarter as it reduced writedowns on land it owns.
Orders for new homes fell 17 percent and contract signings in
May slowed after the government incentive expired.  
 “The tax credit helped pull some sales forward into
earlier months this year,”  Ara K. Hovnanian , chairman and chief
executive officer, said in the statement. “We recognize that
the expiration of the federal homebuyer tax credit, the lack of
job growth and a potential increase in foreclosures all pose
risks to a housing industry recovery.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Construction may slump after the deadline to sign contracts and receive a tax
credit worth as much $8,000 passed in April. Photographer: Joshua Lott/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
