-- Business-Jet Engine Sales to Return to Peak by 2015, Pratt & Whitney Says
-- Susanna Ray
-- 2010-06-15T20:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/business-jet-engine-sales-to-return-to-peak-by-2015-pratt-whitney-says.html

          
          
             Pratt & Whitney Canada , the world’s
biggest maker of small and medium business-jet engines, projects
its market will return to peak production levels by 2015 and
plans to pursue orders from makers of larger planes.  
 “We’re more than the average on optimism when you take the
most pessimistic to the most optimistic,”  John Saabas ,
president of Pratt & Whitney Canada, a  United Technologies Corp. 
division, said in an interview at his offices outside Montreal.
Aircraft and engines will see a return to the record levels
reached in 2008 “somewhere in 2014, 2015,” he said.  
 Pratt & Whitney Canada’s position in the market gives it a
broad view including potential competitions for new aircraft
that haven’t been made public, Saabas said. Mid-sized jets will
recover more slowly, while interest in so-called heavier jets
exceeds both medium and light planes in the early part of the
recovery, Saabas said.  
 “It’s a great opportunity for us with all those yet-to-be
announced competitions,” Saabas said, adding that Pratt’s new
PW800 engine is meeting targets during testing at Pratt Canada’s
facilities in Longueuil, Quebec. “We see a lot of strength in
our traditional markets,” he said.  
 Business-jet makers including  Bombardier Inc.  and  General
Dynamics Corp.’s  Gulfstream are considering a new larger model,
while  Textron Inc.’s  Cessna has said it may reconsider the
cancellation of a plane that was to feature the PW800 series.
 Rolls-Royce Group Plc  of London is the biggest maker of engines
for large business jets, followed by Fairfield, Connecticut-
based  General Electric Co.   
 Engine Testing  
 Pratt & Whitney, like GE and Rolls Royce, also makes large
commercial and military engines. The small-engine unit in Canada
provided about $2.9 billion of East Hartford, Connecticut-based
Pratt & Whitney’s $12.58 billion in sales last year.  
 Pratt Canada’s PW800 engine, designed to take a share in
the large business-jet market, will be ready by the time
airplane makers decide to debut new models in three to five
years, Saabas said.  
 That’s because the core, or hot-section, of the engine is
being tested as part of a larger engine model used to power
 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.’s  regional jet and Bombardier’s
new CSeries airplane. The PW800 had been set to debut in 2014 on
Cessna’s Citation Columbus model, which was canceled in April
2009 amid declining demand.  
 “There are going to be regional applications before the
business world, so the core will be developed,” Saabas said.  
 Market Bottom  
 Pratt Canada, also the world’s biggest turboprop maker and
a manufacturer of helicopter engines, said deliveries declined
to 3,144 last year from a peak of about 4,000 engines in 2008.
Executives have predicted fewer Pratt Canada deliveries this
year as planemakers including Cessna and Bombardier forecast a
market bottom.  
 While the Canadian division has eliminated jobs with the
drop in production, Saabas said he hasn’t reduced development
funding. The company is also working on better-performing
turboprop engines, he said. Pratt Canada has certified five new
engines each year over a 10-year period, the company said May
12. Saabas wouldn’t say how much the unit is spending.  
 Cessna, builder of the most business jets each year,
doesn’t typically see demand rebound following economic
recessions until about eight quarters after corporate profits
return.  
 United Technologies, with units that also include Sikorsky
Helicopters, fire and security systems, Hamilton Sundstrand
aerospace systems, Carrier air conditioners and Otis elevators,
had $52.9 billion in sales last year.  
 United Technologies rose $1.70, or 2.5 percent, to $68.60
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have declined 1.2 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Montreal at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanna Ray  in Montreal at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        