-- California Poised to Miss Budget Deadline Amid Deficit Impasse
-- Michael B. Marois
-- 2010-06-15T17:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/california-lawmakers-poised-to-miss-budget-deadline-amid-deficit-impasse.html

          
          
             California lawmakers are poised to
miss a constitutional deadline to send a fiscal 2011 budget to
Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  as they remain at odds on erasing
a $19.1 billion deficit.  
 State law requires the Legislature to send a spending plan
to the governor by midnight June 15, a deadline they’ve met only
five times in the past 33 years. The governor is supposed to
sign the budget by the start of the fiscal year on July 1, a
date met just 10 times in the last three decades.  
 “In all likelihood, we’re not going to have a budget plan
forwarded on to the governor by the constitutional deadline,”
said Controller  John Chiang , a Democrat. “It’s imperative that
the governor and the Legislature act promptly, as we have
significant risks coming before the state of California if they
fail to take appropriate action quickly.”  
 The recession has driven the state’s  unemployment  rate to
12.6 percent in April and cut into tax revenue. California’s
Democrat-dominated Legislature and Schwarzenegger, a Republican
in his last year in office, have sought to close the budget gaps
that emerged, a task made harder by a legal requirement for
support from two-thirds of lawmakers to raise taxes or pass
annual spending plans.  
 A group of legislators from the Assembly and Senate is
drafting a spending plan. The panel hasn’t reached a consensus
on how to erase the deficit.  
 ‘Fair and Balanced’  
 “We’re working on it,” said Alicia Trost, a spokeswoman
for Senate President  Darrell Steinberg , a Democrat from
Sacramento. “The most important thing is that we have a fair
and balanced budget instead of getting it done by a
constitutional deadline.”  
 Schwarzenegger has proposed $12.4 billion in spending cuts,
including eliminating the state’s main welfare program. He is
also counting on $3.4 billion in additional federal aid and $3.4
billion in fund shifts, fees and assessments to erase the gap.  
 Democrats in the Assembly want to borrow $9 billion backed
by beverage-container recycling fees and a new levy on oil
production. Their counterparts in the Senate want to raise as
much as $5 billion by extending temporary income-tax and
vehicle-license fee increases, passed last year. They also have
proposed raising levies on alcohol and delaying scheduled
corporate tax cuts for two years.  
 Schwarzenegger and his fellow Republicans have said they
will block tax increases. While Democrats control both chambers
of the Legislature, they are short of the two-thirds majority by
two votes in the Senate and five in the Assembly.  
 Reining In Pensions  
 Schwarzenegger also has said he won’t sign any budget this
year until lawmakers send him bills to add spending caps and
reserves to the plan and rein in public-employee pension costs.  
 “Our deficit grows every day we don’t act and the governor
has been clear that the Legislature’s inaction will not be
solved with more taxes or risky borrowing schemes,” said  Aaron McLear , a Schwarzenegger spokesman. “We must live within our
means and use this crisis as an opportunity to reform our budget
and fix our pension system that is spiraling out of control.”  
 Standard & Poor’s, which gives the state its fourth-lowest
investment-grade rating of A-, said June 8 that California’s $69
billion of debt outstanding may be downgraded if the current
standoff is protracted. California, the largest U.S. municipal
borrower, sold $28 billion of long- and short-term bonds in the
past 12 months, according to Bloomberg data.  
 The  extra yield  investors are demanding on the state’s 10-
year bonds above AAA-rated municipal securities declined to 1.19
percentage points yesterday, according to Bloomberg fair value
index data. That’s down from 1.53 percentage points, or 153
basis points, on Dec. 9.  
 ‘Stalemated Negotiation’  
 “The state’s credit is more at risk from a stalemated
negotiation process with primarily political origins than from
other, more fundamental, economic and revenue factors,” S&P
said in the June 8 report.  
 California has enough cash to pay bills through August, a
reserve that may avert the need to issue IOUs as it did last
July, controller Chiang said June 2.  
 The state used promissory notes to pay contractors and
other creditors while Schwarzenegger and lawmakers fought over
how to fill the previous deficit. That stalemate sent the
difference in  yield  between California bonds and top-rated
obligations to a record 1.71 percentage points on July 1, 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “This year, the state can go later without issuing IOUs,”
said  David Blair , a municipal debt analyst for Pacific
Investment Management Co., the Newport Beach, California-based
company that runs the world’s biggest bond fund. “When the
prospect of that becomes real, that’s when you may see spreads
start to widen.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento, California, at 
Or  mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        