-- Stocks Advance in Toronto as Energy Companies Increase on Oil, Gas Gains
-- Elizabeth Stanton
-- 2010-06-15T21:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/canadian-stocks-advance-as-energy-companies-increase-on-oil-gas-gains.html

          
          
             Canadian stocks  rose for a fourth
day, the longest such streak since April, as gains for fuels and
metals lifted commodity producers and Research In Motion Ltd.
advanced on speculation new products will boost profit.  
 Suncor Energy Inc., Barrick Gold Corp. and Teck Resources
Ltd. led gains in energy and materials producers as a drop in
the value of the U.S. dollar pushed up prices for oil, gold,
silver, lead and zinc. Toronto-Dominion Bank and Bank of Nova
Scotia paced financials as all 10 industry groups in the
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index advanced.  
 The  S&P/TSX  gained 240.20 points, or 2.1 percent, to
11,907.54 as of 4:10 p.m. in Toronto. Energy companies account
for almost 27 percent of the index, its second-biggest industry
group after banks.  
 “Markets are heading higher as people are choosing to look
more at economic recovery vs. European debt issues,” said
 Mathieu Roy , a money manager at Louisbourg Investments in
Moncton, New Brunswick, which manages about C$1.2 billion ($1.17
billion). Roy said he’s been buying energy shares on the “long-
term thesis of short supply and increasing demand.”  
 Suncor, Canada’s largest oil company, climbed 2.9 percent
to C$34.48. Crude for July delivery rose 2.4 percent to $76.94
on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest settlement
price since May 6.  
 Canadian Natural, Barrick  
 Canadian Natural Resources Ltd., the country’s second-
largest gas producer, rose 2 percent to C$38.02. Natural gas for
July delivery rose 3.7 percent to $5.189 per million British
thermal units, a four-month high, as forecasts for hot weather
in the U.S. Midwest and mid-Atlantic regions next week suggested
electricity demand will rise.  
 Barrick, the world’s biggest gold producer, rose 1.6
percent to C$44.02. Teck Resources, Canada’s largest base-metals
producer, gained 4 percent to C$36.50.  
 Research In Motion  rose 5.2 percent to C$64.49. The maker
of the BlackBerry phone is in the early stages of developing a
tablet device meant to act as a companion to the BlackBerry, the
Wall Street Journal reported, citing unidentified people
familiar with the situation. RIM is also testing a smartphone
with a touch screen and a slide-out keyboard that runs on a new
version of the BlackBerry operating system, the newspaper said.  
 Stocks rose globally, sending the  MSCI World Index  to a
sixth straight gain, after the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York’s general economic index showed an 11th consecutive month
of growth. The euro strengthened against the U.S. dollar even as
Moody’s downgraded Greek debt to junk.  
 CIBC, Advantage Oil  
 Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce  gained 3.2 percent to
C$75. Canada’s fifth-largest bank agreed to buy Citigroup Inc.’s
C$2.1 billion ($2.03 billion) Canadian credit-card portfolio to
add MasterCard to its offerings and increase its card assets by
15 percent.  
 Advantage Oil & Gas Ltd.  rose 7.3 percent to C$7.07. The
oil and natural gas producer said it planned to double gas
production from its Glacier, Alberta, wells over the next 12
months.  
 West Fraser Timber Co. and Canfor Corp., lumber producers,
fell after being  downgraded  to “market perform” from
“outperform” at Raymond James Ltd. West Fraser declined 3.3
percent to C$36.45. Canfor retreated 2.2 percent to C$8.53.  
 First Capital Realty Inc. fell 1.6 percent to C$14.35.
Canada’s fourth-biggest publicly traded real estate company by
market value said it will sell at least 3.48 million shares at
C$14.35 a share.  
 Energy companies in the S&P/TSX are down 0.7 percent since
April 20, when an oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico operated by BP
Plc exploded, starting the worst oil spill in U.S. history.
Energy companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S.
companies are down 8.5 percent.  
 The difference reflects the Canadian companies’ relative
lack of operations in the Gulf, and speculation that
restrictions on offshore drilling will improve the economics of
Canadian oil sands and shale wells, Louisbourg’s Roy said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        