-- Canadian Pacific's DM&E Railway Acquisition Upheld By U.S. Appeals Court
-- William McQuillen
-- 2010-06-15T16:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/canadian-pacific-s-acquisition-of-dm-e-upheld-by-washington-appeals-court.html

          
          
             Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. ’s
acquisition of the Dakota, Minnesota & Eastern Railroad Corp. in
2008 was upheld by an appeals court, which rejected challenges
by the Sierra Club and Chicago’s commuter rail agency.  
 The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
today said the Sierra Club had no stake in the matter that would
allow it to sue, and rebuffed claims by the agency, known as
Metra, that the Surface Transportation Board abused its
discretion in approving the purchase. Both plaintiffs claimed
the board’s approval was premature.  
 Canada’s second-largest railroad won U.S. regulatory
approval for the deal in September 2008. The company paid $1.48
billion for DM&E to expand its access to ethanol and coal
markets in the U.S. Midwest.  
 Metra, which provides commuter rail service in the Chicago
area, said the board should have attached conditions to the
approval to protect its track rights between Chicago and
Wisconsin. The Sierra Club challenged the board’s decision to
approve the takeover while it deferred an environmental impact
study.  
 “The Sierra Club has not shown, as it must, a casual
connection between the government action that supposedly
required the disregarded procedure” and “some reasonably
increased risk of injury to its particularized interest,” the
court wrote.  
 A representative from the Sierra Club and attorney for
Metra didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  
 Canadian Pacific, based in Calgary, rose 80 cents to $58.85
at 11:18 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 The case is Commuter Railroad Division v Surface
Transportation Board, 08-1346, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia (Washington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at   bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        