-- Canadian Dollar Rises for First Time in Three Days as Stocks, Oil Climb
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-06-15T20:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/canadian-dollar-appreciates-as-u-s-stock-index-futures-crude-oil-climb.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar rose for the first
time in three days as stocks and crude oil advanced and
speculation increased that the nation’s central bank will raise
interest rates faster than other countries.  
 The currency is 89 percent correlated to the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, meaning the two rise and fall virtually in
lockstep. Manufacturing sales increased in April, a government
report today showed.  
 “With equities higher, that’s creating better offers in
the Canadian dollar,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of
foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada in Toronto. “The
Canadian dollar continues to be coveted.”  
 The Canadian currency appreciated 0.8 percent to C$1.0258
per U.S. dollar at 4:28 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0339
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys 97.49 U.S. cents.  
 Canada is poised to become the first Group of Seven economy
to reach pre-recession levels of output, Bloomberg surveys show,
adding pressure on the country’s central bank to continue
raising borrowing costs from near-record lows.  
 The Bank of Canada on June 1 raised  interest rates  as the
economy benefits from strong domestic demand supported by a
banking system that largely escaped the global financial crisis.
The next meeting is July 20.  
 Canada’s six-month overnight index swap rate, which marks
what traders expect the central bank’s policy rate will average
over that period, rose to 0.8560 percent, the highest since
December 2008.  
 The S&P 500 advanced 2.4 percent. Crude for July delivery
climbed as much as 2.5 percent to $77.03 a barrel.  
 Global Bond Sales  
 A drop in the euro to near its lowest level in four years
means Canadian dollars and Swiss francs are accounting for
record shares of global bond sales as investors flee turmoil in
Europe’s government debt market.  
 General Electric Co.’s financing arm has led C$5.66 billion
of bond sales this month, 10.5 percent of total global issuance
and double the currency’s share in May, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Borrowers are seeking alternative funding sources to avoid
markets directly affected by collapsing confidence in the euro
region’s ability to contain soaring deficits. Bond offerings in
all currencies other than U.S. dollars and euros totaled $15
billion, or a record 29 percent of the $51.2 billion issued,
double the proportion of a year ago, Bloomberg data show.  
 Canada will auction C$3 billion of three-year bonds
tomorrow. The 2.5 percent notes will mature in September 2013,
according to a statement on the Bank of Canada’s Web site. The
previous auction of three-year bonds on May 12 fetched an
average yield of 2.604 percent and had a bid-to-cover ratio of
2.219 times, according to Bank of Canada  data .  
 Canadian factory sales rose 0.2 percent to C$44.5 billion
in April on gains in primary metals, petroleum and coal,
Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg predicted growth of 0.3 percent, according to the
median of 19 estimates.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        