-- Canada Invites Auditor General to Review Lawmakers' Expense Accounts
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-06-15T17:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/canada-invites-auditor-general-to-review-lawmakers-expense-accounts.html

          
          
             Members of a Canadian Parliamentary
committee today said they will let the country’s auditor general
look into lawmakers’ expenses, reversing an earlier decision.  
 Auditor General   Sheila Fraser  will review the rules
governing spending and their enforcement,  Jay Hill , a lawmaker
with the ruling Conservative Party and the spokesman for the
Board of Internal Economy, told reporters in Ottawa. Fraser will
look at a sample of lawmakers from all parties, he said.  
 The  board , the nine-member committee responsible for the
House of Commons’ operations, services, staff and members, had
earlier rejected a  request  by Fraser to review lawmakers’
expenses. A Harris/Decima  poll  of 1,000 Canadians conducted May
20-23 found that 80 percent of Canadians believe lawmakers are
making claims that are against the rules.  
 “What we saw was an increased campaign of
misinformation,” Hill said when asked why the board had changed
its position. “We felt it important to clear up that
misinformation and get the facts before Canadians.”  
 Fraser told reporters the review will not evaluate how
individual lawmakers manage their offices or the merits of
specific expenses claimed.  
 “It’s unfortunate that there seems to be an impression
created that there is misspending,” Fraser said. “I don’t
think we should jump to that conclusion at all,” she said,
adding that she expects to find that the rules and procedures
are appropriate.  
 Fraser expects to be done with her report in the second
half of 2011, she said. “If we find that things are not being
managed as expected and that there are major disregards for
rules, obviously, we go much further,” Fraser added.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        