-- Canadian Developer Agrees to Guilty Plea in $26 Million Nevada Mine Fraud
-- Joe Schneider
-- 2010-06-15T18:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/canadian-developer-agrees-to-guilty-plea-in-26-million-nevada-mine-fraud.html

          
          
             Canadian developer  Alberto DoCouto ,
who bilked investors of more than $26 million in bogus mining
projects, agreed to plead guilty to securities fraud after
almost three years in jail awaiting trial in Las Vegas, Nevada.  
 DoCouto, who relied on a public defender for most of the
time since he was charged, agreed to pay the U.S. a penalty of
$26.1 million. His agreement with federal prosecutors also calls
for a sentence ranging from 63 months to 150 months under the
U.S. guidelines. The term, to be determined by a judge, will
depend on his criminal history.  
 “The United States expressly states that it intends to
recommend a sentence at the high end of the applicable
sentencing range,” according to the June 11 agreement, which
was posted on a court website yesterday.  
 DoCouto, of Henderson, Nevada, moved to the U.S. in 2002
after he was acquitted of fraud charges in Canada in 1998. He
was accused in Nevada of persuading Japanese, Canadian and U.S.
investors to give him money to develop mines in Peru, Nevada and
Guyana. He admitted he made no effort to carry out the projects,
and as a result investors lost more than $26 million.  
 “While investors lost almost all the money they invested
in DoCouto’s scheme, DoCouto enriched himself at their
expense,” according to a statement he and prosecutors agreed
was true. “DoCouto used funds obtained from investors for the
express purpose of developing the purported mining and real
estate projects to lead a lavish lifestyle complete with an
opulent home, luxury automobiles and profligate spending,”  
 The plea agreement must be approved by a judge.  
 Japanese Investor  
 The All Japan Liquor Merchant Association, a Japanese
pension fund, invested about $6.4 million in a project to
develop a mine in Guyana, prosecutors said.  
 The charges also included DoCouto’s promotion of Vista
Continental Corp., whose shares surged from zero to $7.25 in
2002, valuing the company at $326 million. He said the company’s
gold property in Peru was a “blockbuster,” potentially worth
billions of dollars.  
 DoCouto, Vista’s majority shareholder, used the money to
finance a lifestyle that included the purchase of two Bentley
automobiles for more than $650,000, including a 2002  Arnage ,
prosecutors said. He didn’t start a mine, they said.  
 Prosecutors agreed to drop more than 170 charges in
exchange for the guilty plea to two counts of securities fraud.  
 DoCouto has been in jail since Aug. 24, 2007, when he was
charged with wire and securities fraud, making false statements
and visa fraud. He was 64 at the time. The case stalled as
DoCouto changed lawyers and prosecutors accumulated more than
40,000 pages of documents as evidence.  
 The case is U.S. v. DoCouto, 02:07cr20, U.S. District
Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Toronto
at   jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        