-- Carbon Allowances May Cost Households as Much as $146 a Year, EPA Says
-- Simon Lomax
-- 2010-06-15T20:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/carbon-allowances-may-cost-households-as-much-as-146-a-year-epa-says.html

          
          
             A proposal in the U.S. Senate to
charge power plants, factories and refineries a price for
releasing carbon dioxide into the atmosphere would cost the
average U.S. household $79 to $146 a year, the Environmental
Protection Agency said today.  
 Pollution allowances, each representing one metric ton of
carbon dioxide, would cost $16 to $17 each in 2013 under the
cap-and-trade legislation unveiled last month by Senators  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat, and  Joseph Lieberman , a
Connecticut independent, the EPA said in a report. The
allowances would cost $23 to $24 each in 2020, the agency said.  
 The overall cost to individual households will be “less
than a dollar a day” and the EPA’s analysis doesn’t factor in
benefits such as reduced oil imports and the jobs that could be
created when companies spend money on technologies that cut
pollution, Lieberman told reporters in Washington today.  
 Kerry and Lieberman released the EPA’s cost estimates as
part of a push to get carbon caps added to energy legislation
that Senate Democrats plan to take up next month. The two
senators, environmental groups and companies that support carbon
caps hope their approach gets a boost later today when President
 Barack Obama  gives a speech on the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  
 ‘Longer-Term Solution’  
 Obama should “look beyond this crisis in the Gulf for a
longer-term solution,” Lieberman said. “The best way to avoid
another tragic oil spill like the one in the Gulf today is to
break our dependence on oil to power our society and we need
legislation to make that happen.”  
 Under Kerry and Lieberman’s legislation, carbon dioxide
from power plants and factories would be regulated by a cap-and-
trade program, in which companies buy and sell a declining
number of pollution rights. Their bill aims to cut greenhouse
gases 17 percent from the 2005 levels by 2020 and 80 percent by
2050.  
 Most allowances would be given away at first to shield
homes and businesses from higher energy bills, and some
households would be eligible for rebate checks. Refineries would
have to buy allowances directly from the federal government to
account for the carbon dioxide produced by cars and trucks that
burn oil-based fuels like gasoline.  
 Kerry and Lieberman’s bill revamps cap-and-trade
legislation that narrowly passed the House last year and stalled
in the Senate. The two senators are pushing for the legislation
to become law this year.  
 Democrats to Meet  
 Senate Democrats are scheduled to meet June 17 to discuss
what should be added to next month’s energy legislation besides
measures that respond to the immediate impacts of the Gulf oil
spill, the result of an April 20 explosion aboard a rig leased
by BP Plc.  
 The Democrats will consider plans to directly regulate
carbon dioxide emissions, such as Kerry and Lieberman’s bill,
and legislation that ramps up electricity production from
pollution-free sources like wind farms and solar panels without
imposing a limit on greenhouse gases, according to three
congressional aides who asked not to be identified discussing
the closed meeting.  
 Obama should use his first televised address from the Oval
Office, scheduled for 8 p.m. Washington time, to “connect the
dots” between the Gulf spill and capping carbon dioxide
emissions, which will reduce U.S. demand for oil,  Tony Kreindler , a spokesman for the New York-based  Environmental
Defense Fund , said in a telephone interview.  
 ‘Political Moment’  
 To convince senators that a carbon cap should be part of
the energy legislation debate next month, “you need a political
moment, and with the spill, the political moment has arrived,”
Kreindler said.  
 The Environmental Defense Fund is part of a coalition of
advocacy groups and firms, including Princeton, New Jersey-based
power company  NRG Energy Inc. , that are  urging  Congress to pass
legislation this year capping greenhouse gases and making
companies pay for carbon dioxide emissions.  
 If Obama can translate the public’s concern over the Gulf
spill into support for “capping carbon,” it will be much
harder for the Senate to settle on “energy-only” legislation
that doesn’t regulate greenhouse gases,  Steven Corneli , an NRG
senior vice president, said in a telephone interview.  
 “If he can get that message across, get people to really
connect with it, that could make all the difference,” Corneli
said.  
 Obama shouldn’t use the Gulf spill to rally support for
cap-and-trade legislation, said Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky.  
 The cost of carbon dioxide allowances is effectively a
“new national energy tax” that will do nothing to “stop this
spill and clean it up,” McConnell said. It would be wrong for
Obama to use the “justifiable public outrage” over the oil
spill “as a tool for pushing a divisive new climate change
policy,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        