-- Cemex Says Debt Terms Create `Nightmares' of Missing Cement Acquisitions
-- Thomas Black
-- 2010-06-15T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/cemex-says-debt-terms-create-nightmares-of-missing-cement-acquisitions.html

          
          
             Cemex SAB , the biggest cement maker
in the Americas after $29 billion in global acquisitions over
two decades, is concerned that its efforts to cut debt will mean
sitting out the next round of industry consolidation.  
 “Our strategic position in the sector appears in my
nightmares,”  Fernando Gonzalez , chief of planning and finance,
said in an interview at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. “The
largest players might grow faster than what we can do in the
next five years, and that keeps me up.”  
 After a near-default on $21.7 billion in  debt  in 2009, any
expansion will have to come through an investment fund in which
Monterrey, Mexico-based Cemex will be a minority partner, rather
than the direct purchaser, Gonzalez said.  
 The largest cement makers, led by  Holcim Ltd.  and Lafarge
SA, may keep buying rivals as construction rebounds, said
 Gonzalo Fernandez , an analyst with Banco Santander SA. About $21
billion in cement-related acquisitions were announced globally
in the 12 months ended June 8, almost three times as much as in
the prior year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “The main fear is letting good opportunities in good
markets pass by,” Mexico City-based Fernandez said.  
 Cemex’s Gonzalez estimated that there is a potential for
$42 billion of acquisitions worldwide in cement operations, the
largest share of a possible $70 billion of deals in the global
building-materials industry.  
 Keeping Pace  
 “Our competitors are nowadays in good shape, and I’m sure
they have their plans to continue the growth process,” said
Gonzalez, 55. “We know we have to keep the pace.”  
 He said Cemex’s investment fund, unveiled in April, may
offer a way around the limits on  acquisitions  put in place by
creditors after an agreement with banks in August to refinance
about $15 billion in debt through 2014. The company sold shares
and  assets  to reduce debt and adopted a cap of $100 million a
year for acquisitions or joint ventures.  
 Cemex hired Lazard Ltd. to help drum up interest in the
fund, Blue Rock Cement Holdings SA, and expects to reach its
target of having $500 million to invest “at the latest in a
couple of months,” Gonzalez said.  
 Cemex would take a minority stake of 10 percent to 20
percent in the fund and run any cement  plants  acquired or built.
At the end of five years, Cemex would have the option to buy out
its partners, Gonzalez said. The company will contribute the
entire $100 million it’s allowed to spend on acquisitions this
year, he said.  
 Growth Strategy  
 “We will see how far we can go with this idea,” said
Gonzalez, the No. 2 official behind Chief Executive Officer
 Lorenzo Zambrano , who embarked on a strategy of acquisitions to
build the company when he became CEO in 1985. Cemex is No. 4 in
the industry worldwide in production capacity, trailing Holcim,
Lafarge and Germany’s  HeidelbergCement AG .  
 In the past, Cemex was able to keep pace with competitors
though acquisitions such as Australia’s  Rinker Group Ltd.  for
$14.2 billion in 2007, RMC Group Plc in the U.K. for $5.5
billion in 2005, and Houston-based Southdown Inc. for $2.8
billion in 2000.  
 Purchases that large are no longer feasible for Cemex, said
 Michael Betts , a Jefferies Group Inc. analyst in London who has
a “buy” rating on the shares.  
 “Cemex, in my view, needs to change its strategy longer
term to smaller acquisitions more frequently,” Betts said in an
e-mail. “It now has the product and geographic spread to do
this.”  
 Cemex should concentrate on  reducing debt , rather than on
expanding to keep up with peers, said Banco Santander’s
Fernandez, who has a “hold” rating on the stock.  
 While the cement maker’s loan covenants force it to shrink
 debt  and improve finances, the fund has no such restrictions. If
Cemex’s fund raised $1 billion, it also could borrow $2 billion
more to purchase companies, said  Daniel McGoey , an analyst with
Citigroup Inc. in Mexico City.  
 ‘Acquisition Ammunition’  
 “It’s very doable,” said McGoey, who recommends buying
Cemex stock. “The bottom line is that $3 billion of acquisition
ammunition could be very effective.”  
 The fund should be “very appealing” to private-equity
 investors  because they can tap into Cemex’s operating expertise
and have a clear exit strategy after five years, McGoey said.  
 Cemex said in April the fund’s first project would be to
build a cement plant with 1 million metric tons of annual
capacity in Peru for $230 million.  
 Cemex has fallen 7.5 percent in Mexico City trading this
year. That compares with a 4.5 percent  drop  for Jona,
Switzerland-based Holcim, a 13 percent decrease for Paris-based
 Lafarge  and a decline of 6.1 percent for HeidelbergCement.  
 Brazil, Australia  
 Lafarge doubled annual  production  capacity in Brazil to 7
million metric tons as it acquired cement operations while
shedding a stake in a building-materials maker in February. The
company also said in May it’s combining its cement operations in
central and eastern Europe with those of Vienna-based Strabag
SE. Lafarge will own 70 percent of the venture.  
 Holcim bought Cemex’s Australian business for about $1.7
billion in October when the Mexican company was forced under its
bank financing agreement to come up with funds to pay debt.  
 Growth through takeovers is a need in the cement industry,
where the size of acquisitions ballooned before the recession,
Cemex’s Gonzalez said.  
 “We want to continue being a leader,” Gonzalez said. “If
you want to continue being in this world a few years from now,
you better stay at that level.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in New York at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Cemex SAB's chief of planning and finance Fernando Gonzalez. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
