-- Chile's De Gregorio Raises Rate for First Time Since 2008 as Economy Grows
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-06-15T22:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/chile-raises-interest-rates-for-first-time-since-2008-after-gdp-rebounds.html

          
          
             Chile’s central bank raised its
benchmark  interest rate  for the first time since September 2008
with a bigger-than-forecast increase as the economy’s fastest
expansion in more than a decade pushes inflation back up toward
policy makers’ target.  
 The bank board, led by bank President  Jose De Gregorio ,
raised the overnight rate by a half-point to 1 percent from a
record low 0.5 percent, matching the forecasts of just 4 of 24
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Eighteen analysts predicted a
quarter-point increase while two forecast no change.  
 The bank’s five-member policy committee acted after the
economy expanded at the fastest pace on record in April from
March. South America’s fifth-largest economy is set to grow this
year after shrinking last year and inflation may pass the bank’s
3 percent target by December.  
 Policy makers decided “to begin removing the significant
monetary stimulus in place, which it will continue to do at a
pace that depends on the evolution of domestic and external
macroeconomic conditions,” the bank said in a statement
accompanying its decision. It cited booming demand and falling
unemployment.  
 “The central bank wanted to send a strong signal that they
wish to remain ahead of the curve in terms of the interest-rate
normalization cycle,” said  Alberto Ramos , an economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York.  
 Recovery from the global financial crisis in many countries
worldwide has seen policy makers begin to withdraw monetary
stimulus as rebounding demand threatens to ignite inflation. In
Latin America, the central banks of Brazil and Peru raised
interest rates at each of their past two meetings.  
 ‘Strong Recovery’  
 While the rebound from the global financial crisis has been
uneven across the region, growth in Brazil, Peru and Chile this
year will exceed each economy’s seven-year average, according to
International Monetary Fund estimates.  
 Chile’s economy recovered faster than forecast from an 8.8-
magnitude earthquake -- the world’s fifth strongest in a century
-- and tsunami that struck Feb. 27, which killed 500 while
smashing ports, roads and factories across an area of the
country responsible for 17 percent of gross domestic product.  
 Damage from the disaster may total $30 billion, equivalent
to about one sixth of last year’s GDP.  
 The central bank, which estimated in April that the economy
would grow 4.25 percent to 5.25 percent with inflation of 3.7
percent this year, will tomorrow publish updated economic
forecasts.  
 Quake, Rebound  
 “We expect the bank to keep its growth forecast or maybe
reduce it slightly and at the same time to indicate that growth
for next year could reach as fast as 6 percent,” said  Aldo Lema , chief economist at Banco Security SA in Santiago. “We see
strong recovery in domestic demand, which will be supported by
reconstruction plans.”  
 In the wake of the temblor,  industrial output  plummeted
17.4 percent in March then shrank 1.3 percent in April, less
than the 6.6 percent contraction economists had forecast, as
companies reopened factories to meet a rise in domestic demand.  
 Reports in late May from the  National Statistics Institute 
and National Chamber of Commerce showed a surge in April retail
sales.  
 Sales of hardware and home-improvement articles rose 25
percent and sales of household electrical goods such as plasma-
screen and LCD televisions rose 42 percent in real terms in
April on demand ahead of the World Cup, the statistics institute
said.  
 Chile’s national soccer team qualified for the World Cup
finals this year for the first time since 1998, with the team’s
first game against Honduras scheduled for tomorrow.  
 Expectations, Target  
 Reports this month showed that economic activity as
measured by the central bank’s IMACEC index rose 4.6 percent in
April from a year ago and 8.2 percent from the previous month.  
 Prices rose 0.4 percent in May, pushing the annual pace of
inflation to 1.5 percent, the highest since June. A bank survey
published June 10 showed economists see year-end inflation at
3.5 percent by year-end, above the bank’s target of 3 percent.  
 Chilean traders have reduced expectations for inflation as
concerns that the aftermath of the earthquake would lead to
shortages and soaring prices have proved unfounded.  
 One-year breakeven inflation, a measure of inflation
forecasts priced into the swaps market, fell to 3.53 percent
today from a high of 3.95 percent on April 7, according to
Bloomberg  calculations .  
 The measure reflects traders’ expectations of average
inflation over the next 12 months.  
 Prices in Chile’s inflation forwards market imply that
consumer prices will rise 3.61 percent in the 12 months through
December 2010, according to Banco Santander prices. The central
bank aims for an annual inflation rate of 3 percent in two
years’ time.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        