-- Chile May Raise Key Interest Rate From Record Low 0.5% as Economy Rebounds
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-06-15T15:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/chile-may-raise-rate-from-record-low-0-5-as-growth-surge-stokes-inflation.html

          
          
             Chile’s central bank will probably
raise its  benchmark  interest rate from a record low as the
economy’s fastest expansion in more than a decade pushes
inflation back up toward policy makers’ target.  
 All but two of 24 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg expect
the policy board, led bank President  Jose De Gregorio , to raise
the overnight rate for the first time since 2008, with 18
analysts forecasting a quarter-point increase to 0.75 percent
while four expect a half-point move to 1 percent. Two economists
expect no change. The board is scheduled to announce its
decision after 6 p.m. New York time.  
 Before last month’s meeting, Chilean interest-rate swap
traders wagered on a rate increase while a  majority  of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg correctly predicted no change.
In the  statement  explaining their unanimous decision, policy
makers said “monetary policy normalization is approaching.”
Since the May meeting, reports have shown that the economy
expanded at the fastest pace since 1996 in April while the
annual inflation rate rose to an 11-month high.  
 “Monetary policy is extremely expansive at 0.5 percent and
we need to correct that,”  Manuel Agosin , dean of the economics
and business department at the University of Chile in Santiago,
said in a phone interview. “The probability of there being an
increase in the rate is almost 100 percent.”  
 In the second half of 2009, South America’s fifth-biggest
economy experienced its longest streak of deflation since the
Great Depression amid the deepest recession in a decade.  
 Rates, Inflation  
 The bank kept the overnight rate at what it called a
“minimum” 0.5 percent and started offering subsidized loans to
banks in an effort to spur spending and stimulate the economy.  
 “Interest rates fell extraordinarily last year because of
the recession,” Economy Minister  Juan Andres Fontaine , a former
central bank chief economist, said today in Santiago. “Given
that there are indications that the recovery is gaining strength
it’s expected that the central bank will normalize interest
rates.”  
 Recovery from the global financial crisis in many countries
worldwide has seen policy makers begin to withdraw monetary
stimulus as rebounding demand threatens to ignite inflation. In
Latin America, the central banks of Brazil and Peru raised
interest rates at each of their past two meetings.  
 While recovery from the global financial crisis has been
uneven across the region, growth in Brazil, Peru and Chile this
year will exceed each economy’s seven-year average, according to
International Monetary Fund estimates.  
 Market View, Inflation  
 Chilean interest-rate swap traders are discounting 1
percentage point of rate increases over the next three monthly
policy meetings, according to Bloomberg calculations.  
 The three-month Chilean peso interest-rate swap rate was
unchanged at 1.18 percent, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. That implies traders  expect  1 percentage point of
interest-rate rises over the next three meetings.  
 Consumer prices rose 0.4 percent last month, pushing annual
inflation to 1.5 percent, the highest since June 2009. A central
bank  survey  published June 10 of this year showed economists see
year-end inflation at 3.5 percent by year-end, above the bank’s
target of 3 percent.  
 The inflation forwards market is pricing in inflation of
3.61 percent in December, according to Banco Santander SA
prices.  
 Quake, Europe, Rebound  
 Policy makers meeting today in Santiago may discuss raising
the benchmark rate by a half-point before settling on a quarter-
point rise to better gauge the effect of European debt concerns
on global growth, according to  Cristobal Doberti , an economist
at Bice Inversiones in Santiago.  
 “There is some fear that there could be an international
economic decline that could impact the domestic economy,”
Doberti said.  
 Chile’s economy recovered faster than forecast from an 8.8-
magnitude earthquake -- the world’s fifth strongest in a century
-- and tsunami that struck Feb. 27, which killed 500 while
smashing ports, roads and factories across an area of the
country responsible for 17 percent of gross domestic product.  
 Damage from the disaster may total $30 billion, equivalent
to about one sixth of last year’s GDP.  
 In the wake of the temblor,  industrial output  plummeted
17.4 percent in March then shrank 1.3 percent in April, less
than the 6.6 percent contraction economists had forecast, as
companies reopened factories to meet a rise in domestic demand.  
 World Cup Spending  
 Reports in late May from the  National Statistics Institute 
and National Chamber of Commerce showed a surge in April retail
sales.  
 Sales of hardware and home-improvement articles rose 25
percent and sales of household electrical goods such as plasma-
screen and LCD televisions rose 42 percent in real terms in
April on demand ahead of the World Cup, the statistics institute
said.  
 Chile’s national soccer team qualified for the World Cup
finals this year for the first time since 1998, with the team’s
first game against Honduras scheduled for tomorrow.  
 Reports this month showed that economic activity as
measured by the central bank’s IMACEC index rose 4.6 percent in
April from a year ago and 8.2 percent from the previous month.  
 The acceleration of the $180 billion economy in part may
reflect spending related to the World Cup tournament that will
not last past July, according to Ricardo Matte, director of
research group Libertad y Desarrollo’s economics program.  
 The central bank will probably raise the rate to 0.75
percent, he said in a telephone interview from Santiago.  
 “A half-point increase would be hawkish,” Matte said.
“If central bankers do increase the rate by 0.5 point, it could
mean they have more information than we do and that the economy
is moving faster than we know.”  
 The peso strengthened 0.2 percent to 536.7 per dollar at of
11:38 a.m. New York time today from 537.43 yesterday.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net  or
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Chile may raise rate from record low 0.5%  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Chile's central bank President Jose de Gregorio. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Chile's central bank President Jose de Gregorio. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
