-- CLP's Lancaster Says Daya Bay Nuclear Plant Leak Was `Very, Very Minor'
-- Debra Mao
-- 2010-06-15T04:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/china-s-daya-bay-nuclear-plant-near-hong-kong-had-very-small-leak-in-may.html

          
          
             China’s Daya Bay nuclear power plant
had a “very small leakage” from a fuel rod last month that has
been contained,  CLP Holdings Ltd. , Hong Kong’s biggest
electricity supplier, said in a statement.  
 A “small increase” in radioactive substances were
detected in cooling water at the plant’s Unit 2 on May 23,
according to the statement sent today. “The reactor cooling
water is sealed in completely and isolated from the external
environment, thus causing no impact to the public,” it said.  
 The  Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station  is located 50 kilometers
(31 miles) from Hong Kong’s Tsim Sha Tsui district. The facility
has been in commercial operation since 1994 and generates 10
billion kilowatt-hours of electricity a year to Hong Kong and
Guangdong Province, according to the website of the  Hong Kong
Nuclear Investment Company Ltd. , a CLP unit that owns 25 percent
of the plant. State-owned Guangdong Nuclear Investment Co. owns
the remaining  75 percent.   
 CLP released its statement in response to a report on Radio
Free Asia. The electricity supplier said that while the event
was “below the rating” for the  International Nuclear Event
Scale  that would require it to be reported, it had notified
China’s National Nuclear Safety Administration, a central
government agency, and the Daya Bay Nuclear Safety Consultative
Committee, made up of Hong Kong legislators and academics.  
 Plant operators reported the incident to Chinese officials
on May 24, CLP spokesman Justin Lui said by telephone.  
 “This is just like any other operating incident in the
plant, the information is reported, we have been very
transparent in the way we handled the information here,” said
 Richard Lancaster , managing director for CLP Power Hong Kong Ltd.
in a phone interview on Bloomberg Television.  
 Operations Unaffected  
 Calls to lawmaker Raymond Ho Chung-tai, chairman of the
Hong Kong consultative committee, weren’t immediately returned.  
 Operations at the power plant were unaffected, CLP said.  
 The  Hong Kong Observatory  has set up 10 radiation
monitoring stations to keep track of environmental radiation
levels, according to Hong Kong’s Security Bureau. The monitors
haven’t shown abnormal readings since May 23, the government
said in a statement.  
 While no problems were found in the air, the Observatory
will check samples of food and water, said John Chan, Acting
Senior Scientific Officer of the Hong Kong Observatory.  
 “Basically if there’s nothing in the air, it’s unlikely
we’ll find high readings somewhere else,” Chan said.  
 CLP said a task force of nuclear experts was formed to
investigate the situation.  
 The 1986 nuclear disaster at Chernobyl atomic station in
the Ukraine sparked protests in Hong Kong against the Daya Bay
plant in the mid-1980s. Environmental activists were concerned
about the risks of building a plant close to Hong Kong.  
 CLP Holdings fell as much as 1.2 percent in intraday
trading in Hong Kong to HK$54.75, and was at HK$55.40 at the
exchange’s midday break. The shares have risen 5.2 percent this
year compared with an 8.2 percent decline in the benchmark Hang
Seng Index.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debra Mao  at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        