-- China May Avoid U.S.-Style Property Crash With Tightening, Grantham Says
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-06-15T06:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/china-may-avoid-u-s-style-property-crash-with-tightening-grantham-says.html

          
          
             Jeremy Grantham , who correctly
predicted U.S. stocks would lose money in the past decade, said
China’s “experimental” approach to reining in asset bubbles
may help it avoid a U.S.-style housing market crash.  
 China’s lawmakers have raised down payment requirements and
mortgage rates and restricted loans for multiple-home buyers as
they seek to dampen record property price gains. U.S. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in January the central
bank’s low interest rates didn’t cause the past decade’s housing
bubble and that better regulation would have been more effective
in limiting the boom.  
 “Bernanke for example has not admitted that asset class
bubbles matter at all, but the Chinese know they do,” Grantham,
chief investment strategist at Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co,
said at a media briefing in Sydney today. China is “adventurous
in trying new things, and they’re really quite aware of
potential dangers.”  
 China’s banking regulator said today it sees growing credit
risks in the nation’s real-estate industry and warned of
increasing pressure from non-performing loans. The nation’s
property prices rose 12.4 percent in May from a year earlier,
the second-fastest pace on record.  
 An S&P/Case Shiller  index  of house prices in 20 U.S. cities
fell 33 percent from its peak in July 2006 to April 2009.  
 While China does have a housing bubble, it’s not as
significant as the U.S.’s because fewer people own expensive
houses and they had to pay larger deposits on them, Grantham
said. There isn’t a stock market bubble in China, he said.  
 Bearish Calls  
 Grantham, whose firm managed $106.3 billion at March 31
according to its  website , is best-known for his bearish calls on
U.S. stocks. In 2000, he accurately predicted that U.S. stocks
would lose money in the coming decade. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 
index lost 1 percent a year in the 10 years ended Dec. 31, 2009.
In March 2009, he recommended investors get back into stocks,
just as equity prices reached a 12-year low.  
 The S&P 500  rose  nearly 80 percent between its low on March
9 2009 and April 23 this year. The index fell 0.2 percent to
close at 1089.63 yesterday in New York.  
 Grantham, who estimates the fair value of the S&P 500 is
875, said in a quarterly newsletter posted on GMO’s  website  in
April that the market’s rally was “excessive” and was fueled
more by the Fed’s monetary policy than by the rebound in the
economy, which is facing “seven lean years.”  
 Keeping benchmark lending rates near record lows for too
long may be a “disaster waiting to happen,” he said today.  
 Bernanke “may lead us for the third time in 12 years off
yet another cliff by keeping rates so low for so long that
speculators make hay,” he said.  
 China Measures  
 GMO is buying “high quality blue chip” stocks, betting
they’ll outperform more speculative companies in the next seven
years, Grantham said. Its picks for its Quality Fund don’t
include financial stocks, he added.  
 “Financial crises are a rhythm of our capitalist system and
with Bernanke and Greenspan around, they have become even more
embedded,” he said.  
 Some of China’s measures to control bubbles won’t work,
while others will work too well and need to be pulled back,
according to Grantham, 71. “China is more experimental and
that’s what life’s all about as far as I’m concerned,” he said.  
 Risks associated with home mortgages are growing and a
“chain effect” may reappear in real-estate development loans,
the  China Banking Regulatory Commission  said in its annual
report published on its website today.  
 The regulator has told banks to report on risk exposure by
the end of June to help prevent a credit boom from leading to
more bad loans. Property-price gains spurred concerns that a
record 9.59 trillion yuan ($1.4 trillion) of loans extended last
year to combat the effects of the global financial crisis may be
causing asset bubbles.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 11 (Bloomberg) -- Ben Simpfendorfer, chief China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about China's inflation and economic growth.
     China's inflation accelerated to an annual 3.1 percent pace in May, surpassing officials' target for the full year. Simpfendorfer also discusses the outlook for yuan policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
