-- China's Bank Regulator Sees Growing Real Estate Risks
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-15T10:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/china-s-bank-regulator-warns-risks-growing-from-real-estate-chain-effect-.html

          
          
             China’s banking regulator said it
sees growing credit risks in the nation’s real-estate industry
and warned of increasing pressure from non-performing loans.  
 Risks associated with home mortgages are growing and a
“chain effect” may reappear in real-estate development loans,
the  China Banking Regulatory Commission  said in its annual
report published on its website today.  
 The regulator has told banks to report on risk exposure by
the end of June to help prevent a credit boom from leading to
more bad loans. Property-price gains spurred concerns that a
record 9.59 trillion yuan ($1.4 trillion) of loans extended last
year to combat the effects of the global financial crisis may be
causing asset bubbles.  
 China is “closely monitoring the growth in the volume and
the quality of mortgage loans, but we don’t think it has reached
an alarming level,” said  Kelvin Lau , a Hong Kong-based
economist at Standard Chartered Plc. “There are still many
tools the central government can use to tackle the problem if
things get out of control.”  
 Credit risks in some industries that have seen a surge in
investment may “emerge soon” as restructuring efforts
intensify, the regulator  said  in the report. The rise in
investment exacerbated the problem of excess capacity and over-
development, it said.  
 Market Performance  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, has dropped 22 percent this year.
Markets in China are closed from June 14 to 16 for a holiday.  
 “Coming through the global financial crisis, China’s
banking sector has stepped onto a new level,” CBRC Chairman  Liu Mingkang  said in the report. “We remain cool-headed about the
weaknesses to be addressed and fixed.”  
 China’s “experimental” approach to reining in asset
bubbles may help it avoid a U.S.-style housing market crash,
 Jeremy Grantham , chief investment strategist at Grantham Mayo
Van Otterloo & Co., said in Sydney today.  
 CBRC’s report comes as  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the
country’s largest by number of customers, prepares to sell
shares in Shanghai and Hong Kong in what could be the world’s
largest initial public offering.  
 Agricultural Bank may raise at least $23 billion from the
total offering, people with knowledge of the matter said last
week. The IPO will likely surpass the $22 billion sale in 2006
by Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  
 China’s financial institutions reported 668.4 billion yuan
of combined profits in 2009, a 15 percent gain from a year
earlier, according to today’s report.  
 Property Prices  
 China, the world’s fastest-growing major  economy , expanded
11.9 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier. Measures
to cool the real-estate market included a ban on loans for
third-home purchases and raising mortgage rates and down-payment
requirements for second-home purchases.  
 Property prices in the country rose 12.4 percent in May,
the second-fastest pace on record, showing little sign yet that
the government crackdown on speculation will work to avert an
asset-price bubble.  
 Some banks in China have transferred loans off their
balance sheets in an effort to circumvent regulatory
requirements and capital and loan-loss provisioning, the CBRC
said in the report.  
 Banks still assume the risks related to loan management and
recovery even though the loans aren’t booked on their balance
sheets, it said. As a result, rising risks associated with
banks’ activities in transferring their exposures off the
balance sheet need “close supervisory attention.”  
 Financing Vehicles  
 The watchdog said concerns about bank lending to local
government financing vehicles “weighs high” on its supervisory
agenda as some banks have accumulated “large” exposures to
them.  
 Local governments in China have been raising funds through
the vehicles to circumvent regulations that prevent them from
borrowing directly. A crackdown on such loans could trigger a
“gigantic wave” of bad debts as projects are left without
funding, Northwestern University Professor  Victor Shih  said in
March.  
 China ordered local governments to ensure repayment of
debts by their financing units and concentrate on completing
projects already under way. Financing units that fund only
public projects and rely on fiscal income to repay debt should
stop spending, the State Council said earlier this month.  
 The forces driving a sustained growth in China’s economy
remain weak, it said. Structural imbalances are “acute,”
external trade is threatened by rising protectionism and
unemployment pressures remain severe, according to the report.  
 “All these pose further constraint for a substantial and
meaningful rebound,” the report said.  
 China’s changing macroeconomic environment and the
acceleration of the economic restructuring means the possibility
of a resurgence in credit risks or losses “remains high,” the
watchdog said in the annual report.  
 “Close attention needs to be paid to the potential
sovereign risks of some countries and regions as their sovereign
debt ratings have been or will be downgraded,” the CBRC said.
The Chinese operations of some foreign financial institutions
facing high risks should also be monitored, it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joost Akkermans  in Hong Kong at 
 jakkermans@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 11 (Bloomberg) -- Wang Qing, Morgan Stanley's chief economist for Greater China, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about measures taken by the Chinese government to curb property prices, and the outlook for the housing market.
     Wang also discusses the outlook for China's economy, central bank monetary policy and stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
