-- China's Housing Market Isn't Overheating, Roach Says: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-06-15T15:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/china-s-housing-market-isn-t-overheating-stephen-roach-says-tom-keene.html

          
          
             The property boom in China isn’t a
bubble because it’s supported by “solid” demand for
residential housing, according to  Stephen Roach , chairman of
Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd.  
 While portions of the real-estate market such as high-end
apartments are overheating, demand for residential homes will
remain robust as rural Chinese migrate to bigger cities, Roach
said in a radio interview from Hong Kong with  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Surveillance.  
 “This is just a sliver of the property boom,” Roach said,
citing that each year since 2000, between 15 and 20 million
people migrate to Beijing, Shanghai, and second- and third-tier
cities in mainland China. That’s two and a half New York Cities
created annually, he said. “This underpins a huge demand for
residential property. This property has not overheated and the
demand for this property is very, very solid.”  
 The nation’s property prices rose 12.4 percent in May from
a year earlier, the second-fastest pace on record. China’s
banking regulator said today it sees growing credit risks in the
nation’s real-estate industry and warned of increasing pressure
from non-performing loans.  
 China’s lawmakers have raised down payment requirements and
mortgage rates and restricted loans for multiple-home buyers as
they seek to dampen record property price gains. The
government’s “decisive” actions in April are working to cool
the sections of the housing market that were overheating,
according to Roach.  
 “By all accounts, it looks like the measures are working
for now,” he said.  
 ‘Horrible Misconception’  
 China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy, expanded
11.9 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier. The
 Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of China’s
stock exchanges, has dropped 22 percent this year. Markets in
China are closed from June 14 to June 16 for a holiday.  
 China has kept the yuan linked to the dollar as a crisis-
fighting policy, swelling its Treasury holdings and fueling
complaints from U.S. lawmakers that it has an unfair advantage
in global commerce. American lawmakers said they’ll go ahead
with legislation targeting the yuan as U.S. and Chinese leaders
prepare to meet at a Group of 20 summit this month in Canada.  
 Floating the yuan won’t rebalance the trade deficit, Roach
said.  
 “It’s just bad economics to pretend we can fix the lives
of middle class American workers by getting the Chinese to
revalue its currency vis-a-vis the dollar -- it’s a horrible
misconception,” Roach said. “If we don’t boost our national
savings rate, with trillion dollar deficits as far as the eye
can see, the Chinese piece of our multilateral trade deficit
just goes somewhere else. It goes to a higher-cost producer and
that taxes the American people.”  
 ‘Reasonably Well Protected’  
 Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said last week that
a more flexible yuan would allow China to pursue “a more
effective, independent monetary policy, which is particularly
important now, with China’s economy facing a risk of inflation
in goods and in asset prices.”  
 China shouldn’t cave to the pressure and should revalue the
yuan when its financial system is more developed, Roach said.  
 “They’ve still got a long way to go in opening up their
capital account, opening up their financial system and making
certain their financial institutions can be reasonably well
protected from the ups and downs of financial markets and
currency gyrations,” he said. “It’s a process. Over the next
10 years, you will see China take enormous steps toward making
their currency fully convertible but it will take that long or
possibly even longer to do that.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        