-- McLaren Says Supercar Demand Buoyed by Europe as Austerity Sentiment Fades
-- Steven Rothwell
-- 2010-06-15T15:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/mclaren-says-supercar-demand-buoyed-by-europe-as-austerity-sentiment-fades.html

          
          
             McLaren Group said Europe will
provide at least half the buyers for its 200-mile-per-hour,
 Ferrari -rivaling MP4-12C supercar as demand for luxury autos
rebounds from last year’s recession.  
 The 12C, which will cost about 150,000 pounds ($227,000),
starts a 50-venue global promotional tour in Germany on June 17.
About 2,500 expressions of interest have been received for the
1,000 cars to be produced next year, McLaren Automotive Managing
Director  Antony Sheriff  said yesterday in an interview at the
company’s base in Woking, near London.  
 “For many people it didn’t seem like the right time to be
seen driving this type of a car, but from the interest that’s
out there it appears that they’re growing a bit sick of self-
imposed austerity,” Sheriff said. “The waiting list will be
pushing on towards a year almost immediately.”  
 Britain and Germany will lead European sales, while a
further one-third of orders will come from the U.S. and the rest
from Asia and the Middle East, the executive said. McLaren,
best-known for the most successful  Formula One  racing team after
Ferrari, has selected 35 global dealerships to open in 2011,
increasing to at least 70 by 2015 as the model range expands.  
 Sheriff predicts that luxury and sports-car sales will jump
about 35 percent this year after slumping during the recession.  
 Private Viewing  
 The 12C will be shown in a private viewing to dealers and
registered potential clients in Dusseldorf this week, Zurich and
Brussels next week and U.K. buyers in Woking later this month.
The car, a rival to  Ferrari’s 458  and the  Lamborghini  Gallardo,
will make its public debut at the Goodwood Festival of Speed,
held at a racing circuit in southern England in July.  
 Jardine Motors Group will run McLaren’s London dealership,
while Moll Sportwagen in Dusseldorf and Kamps Gruppe in Hamburg
-- trading as Merkur Hanseatische Beteiligungs AG -- will sell
the cars in Germany. Neubauer will act as distributer in Paris,
Fassina Group in Milan, Schmohl AG in Zurich and Monaco Luxury
Group in Monaco.  
 “We feel we’re in a very comfortable position already,
especially considering we haven’t started to  market  the car
yet,” Sheriff said in the interview a day after McLaren F1
drivers  Lewis Hamilton  and  Jensen Button  finished first and
second in the Canadian Grand Prix in Montreal.  
 Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for
Automotive Research at the University of Duisburg-Essen, said he
wouldn’t have expected Europe to lead sales of the new McLaren.  
 ‘Belt Tightening’  
 “I cannot quite conceive how Europe, at the moment, can
add considerable momentum here,” he said. “The region seems
captured by a pronounced sense of belt tightening. It’s more the
rich Chinese, mad American business people or impetuous sheiks
that would opt for this kind of car.”  
 In the U.S., the biggest supercar market, sales of autos
costing more than $100,000 may jump 42 percent after falling 30
percent in 2009, industry researcher IHS Global Insight says.  
 McLaren will initially have nine U.S. dealers at locations
including San Francisco, Beverly Hills, Chicago, Miami, New York
and Dallas, with one sales outlet in Toronto.  
 While performance figures haven’t been released, the 12C is
likely to have a faster top speed and swifter acceleration than
the 458, Sheriff said from an office overlooking two Ferraris
and a Porsche 911 used in comparison tests.  
 The McLaren model takes its name from the MP4 designation
given to all of the company’s race cars since 1981 -- the latest
being the  MP4-25  driven by Hamilton and Button. The “C”
indicates the road car’s carbon construction and the “12” is
a reflection of “internal performance criteria” including
weight, aerodynamics, power and down force, Sheriff said.  
 Price Range  
 The price of the successor to the  McLaren F1 , the world’s
costliest car in the 1990s and the fastest at 240 mph (386
kilometers per hour), has yet to be finalized, but will be in
the range of 125,000 pounds to 175,000 pounds, Sheriff said.  
 McLaren intends to differentiate its dealerships from those
of competitors by having all spare parts on site to ensure
servicing can be carried out with the shortest possible delay.  
 “The single thing that drives the satisfaction of the
customer the most is the after-sales service,” Sheriff said.
“We’ve worked with our dealers to create a system where just
about every part of the car is in every dealership.”  
 McLaren Automotive still plans to sell a stake to investors
to raise funds, Sheriff said.  
 Chairman  Ron Dennis  said in March he was looking for a
buyer prepared to take a 48 percent holding and had hired Credit
Suisse and HSBC Holdings in the Middle East.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in Woking, England, at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        