-- Comcast's $16 Million Web-Slowdown Accord Approved
-- Phil Milford
-- 2010-06-15T17:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/comcast-s-16-million-accord-over-slow-file-downloads-wins-final-approval.html

          
          
             Comcast Corp. , the largest U.S.
cable company, won final approval of a $16 million settlement of
consumers’ claims that it intentionally delayed some file
transfers over its high-speed Internet service.  
 U.S. District Judge  Legrome D. Davis  in  Philadelphia  said
today the accord is the first to have an Internet service
provider paying to resolve so-called data-bias allegations.
About 1 million Comcast users may have claims under the
settlement, which gives as much as $16 apiece to customers whose
file transfers were slowed to a crawl on Comcast’s system.  
 Customers sued Philadelphia-based Comcast in November 2007,
alleging the company slowed or delayed downloads and transfers
of movie and audio files with applications including Ares,
 BitTorrent , eDonkey, FastTrack or Gnutella.  
 The settlement fund will be distributed to customers who
used the targeted applications on Comcast between 2006 and 2008
and who submit a claim, according to court filings.  
 Lawyers for Comcast told Davis the company believed it had
acted reasonably in seeking to regulate the transfer of large
files. The cable provider decided to settle the case to “move
on,” said  Seamus Duffy , one of the company’s attorneys.  
 ‘Moving On’  
 “My client was interested in moving on, technologically,”
he said.  
 The  Federal Communications Commission  sought to force
Internet providers to treat all Internet traffic equally. In
April, a federal appeals court concluded the FCC lacked
authority to create so-called net neutrality guidelines.  
 Objectors to the Comcast data-bias settlement said the
accord doesn’t bar Comcast from slowing large file transfers in
the future. They also said the payout was too small.  
 “We can’t view this settlement of anything other than a
surrender,”  Brian Weinthal , a Washington-based lawyer for
several Comcast users who objected to the settlement, told Davis
at today’s hearing.  
 Consumers faced “substantial legal hurdles” in holding
Comcast liable at trial,  Mark Todzo , a San Francisco-based
lawyer who helped negotiate the settlement, told the judge
today. The accord amounted to a “reasonable resolution” of the
claims, he added.  
 Todzo and other lawyers representing the settlement class
are seeking $3 million in legal fees. Davis didn’t rule on their
request today.  
 The case is In Re Comcast Corp. Peer-to-Peer (P2P)
Transmission Contract Litigation, 08-1992 U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Philadelphia
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        