-- Congress in a `Vise' Over Demands to Create Jobs, Cut Deficit
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-06-15T17:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/congress-in-a-vise-over-u-s-voters-demands-to-create-jobs-cut-deficit.html

          
          
             Voters are forcing Democrats into an
election-year equation they may be unable to solve: How to spend
more money to create jobs and at the same time reduce the
federal  deficit .  
 Democrats have abandoned billions of dollars in proposed
jobs initiatives to avoid adding to the deficit, risking that a
pending bill may seem ineffective to the 15 million
unemployed. To further cut costs, they added more than $50
billion in taxes on buyout managers, oil companies and other
businesses, seized upon by Republicans as job killers.  
 Yet there are few signs Democrats’ contortions to avoid
adding to the deficit are winning over voters, especially when
the savings are compared with this year’s $1.5 trillion budget
shortfall.  
 “We’re in a vise,” said Representative  Gerald Connolly , a
Virginia Democrat who is president of his party’s freshman class
in the House. “It’s a real dilemma.”  
 Private payrolls rose last month by just 41,000, the
government reported, a fraction of what economists predicted and
one-fifth the prior month’s total. About five people are  vying 
for each job opening, more than twice as many as when the
recession began in December 2007, according to the Labor
Department.  
 Senate Races  
 With a 9.7 percent national  unemployment rate  in May,
lawmakers likely will face voters in November with the worst
Election Day jobless rate since it topped 10 percent in 1982.
Half of the 14 most competitive Senate races are in states with
unemployment rates of at least 10 percent, including Nevada,
where Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  is fighting for re-
election amid 13 percent  joblessness  in April.  
 Democrats, who call job creation their top priority,
enacted an $18 billion plan in March offering companies a
payroll tax break to  hire  people out of work at least 60 days.
Lawmakers acknowledged the effort was modest while promising to
follow up with more jobs bills.  
 President  Barack Obama  urged Congress June 12 to spend
almost $50 billion to avoid layoffs of teachers, firefighters
and police and help states pay for health care for the poor.
“We must take these emergency measures,” he said.  
 Lawmakers have been stymied by polls showing voters
increasingly hostile to the costly initiatives that would do
more to bring down unemployment.  
 “There is no reasoning with the public right now,” said
 Thomas Mann , a congressional scholar at the Washington-based
Brookings Institution.  
 Well-Being  
 Connolly said the contradictory views show voters’ anxiety
over their financial well-being.  
 “They are less well-off in terms of wealth and financial
security today than they were when the recession began in ‘07,
so therein lies continued anxiety and uncertainty and consumer
hesitation and anger,” he said. “I don’t think that’s
irrational.”  
 The demands whipsawed House Democratic leaders, who last
month cut $80 billion from an almost $200 billion jobs plan
following complaints from some party members that it would add
too much to the deficit. The bill passed 215-204 and is pending
in the Senate.  
 Representative  James McGovern , a Massachusetts Democrat,
accused colleagues of killing important initiatives in the name
of “symbolic” savings. Those seeking a real effect on the
budget should focus on issues such as  Social Security , he said.  
 ‘Good Luck’  
 “Good luck in going home and saying, ‘no, no, no, look we
need to focus on the long term, not the short term -- don’t
worry about that,’” responded Connolly. “We’re in a political
situation right now that doesn’t allow for that.”  
 The jobs plan before the Senate has been assailed for
costing too much and doing too little. To cut costs, the House
refused to extend a 65 percent subsidy to help the unemployed
buy health insurance. Many will lose coverage without the
subsidy, say unions such as the AFL-CIO.  
 “It would be devastating,” said Senator  Bob Casey , a
Pennsylvania Democrat. A family insurance policy costs on
average $1,137 per month, according to the Kaiser Family
Foundation, more than three-quarters of the average $1,340 in
aid to unemployed people.  
 Economist  Mark Zandi  said lawmakers should send states
between $30 billion and $40 billion. A Senate plan to provide
them $24 billion for Medicaid health care for the poor is the
minimum needed to “make absolutely sure that the economic coast
is clear,” he said.  
 Odds ‘Too High’  
 Without the money, which the House cut from its bill,
states will probably have to fire another 300,000 employees and
the economy may tip back into recession, Zandi said. “The odds
are just too high, I think, to take that chance,” he said.  
 Lawmakers such as Senator  Ben Nelson , a Nebraska Democrat,
are threatening to oppose the plan because of the cost.  
 “We can’t just keep borrowing money,” he said.  
 Nelson’s support is critical to getting any bill through
the Senate, which Democrats control with 59 votes. Lawmakers are
considering a proposal by Senator Jon Tester , a Montana
Democrat, to cut weekly unemployment benefits by $25, to an
average $310, a move he estimated would save $6 billion.  
 Pat Griffin , the Clinton administration’s chief liaison to
Congress, said the debate leaves Democrats “neither fish nor
fowl” on jobs and the deficit. “They’re self-imposing these
constraints and I don’t think anybody thinks they’re getting any
benefit,” he said. “I want to know who the winners are.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Job seekers in Washington  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Job seekers look over information from the National Housing Corp. Learning Center during Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton's job opportunity fair at the Washington Convention Center in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Job seekers look over information from the National Housing Corp. Learning Center during Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton's job opportunity fair at the Washington Convention Center in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 11 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Shiller, an economics professor at Yale University and chief economist at MacroMarkets LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about the U.S. economy, consumer spending and the outlook for U.S. stocks and the housing market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Job seekers walk through Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton's job opportunity fair at the Washington Convention Center in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Jasmine Harrison, center, looks through Fairfax County Public School applications during Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton's job opportunity fair at the Washington Convention Center in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
