-- Continental AG to Sell as Much as $4.9 Billion in Bonds, Using Phased Sale
-- Cornelius Rahn
-- 2010-06-15T08:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/continental-ag-to-sell-as-much-as-4-9-billion-in-bonds-using-phased-sale.html

          
          
             Continental AG , Europe’s second-
biggest auto-parts maker, said it plans bond sales of as much as
4 billion euros ($4.9 billion) in several steps to reduce
dependency on bank financing.  
 The bond sale program may be completed after this year,
spokesman  Hannes Boekhoff  said in a telephone interview today. A
previously planned sale of as much as 2 billion euros of high-
yield bonds will be part of the program, he said, adding the
sale will take place when market conditions are right. He
declined to specify what form subsequent offerings may take.  
 Continental is using cash from improving sales at its
 rubber division  to repay net debt of 8.2 billion euros. The
Hanover, Germany-based company is aiming to combine with
dominant shareholder Schaeffler Group, the world’s second-
biggest roller-bearing maker, after this year.  
 “They should act sooner rather than later,” said  Gaetan Toulemonde , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Paris with a
“buy” rating on the shares. “They have about 8 billion euros
which mature in 2012, and we don’t know what the market is going
to do until then.”  
 The company’s  shares  added 1 euro cent to 43.01 euros at
10:57 a.m. in Frankfurt today. The stock has gained 18 percent
this year, valuing the car-parts maker at 8.6 billion euros.  
 Standard & Poor’s cut Continental’s  debt  to B, five steps
below investment grade, from B+ on May 18. Moody’s rates the
debt B1, four steps less than investment grade. The company
targets a return to investment grade in 2012, Chief Financial
Officer Wolfgang Schaefer said May 4.  
 Robert Bosch GmbH is Europe’s biggest auto-parts company.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        