-- Conwert Offers $203 Million for Remaining Shares in an Austrian Competitor
-- Zoe Schneeweiss
-- 2010-06-15T15:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/conwert-makes-bid-for-eco-business-immobilien-deal-valued-at-203-million.html

          
          
             Conwert Immobilien Invest SE , an
Austrian company that buys and renovates apartment blocks,
offered to purchase the 75 percent of  Eco Business-Immobilien AG 
it  doesn’t own  for as much as 166.5 million euros ($203
million).  
 Eco investors will be offered 6.50 euros a share, Vienna-
based Conwert said in a statement today. That’s 16.5 percent
higher than yesterday’s closing  price  and 34.3 percent above the
six-month average, it said.  
 “The share price is significantly below the book value of
the company and, being the largest single shareholder, we are
not satisfied with this situation,” Conwert Chief Executive
Officer  Johann Kowar  said in the statement. The company’s size
limits its growth opportunities at a time when capital markets
are difficult, he said.  
 Conwert, which already manages Eco, is following Austrian
real estate companies  Immofinanz AG  and  CA Immobilien Anlagen AG 
which earlier this year took over their listed units Immoeast AG
and CA Immobilien International AG. By acquiring Eco, Conwert
would obtain control over a portfolio of roughly 732 million
euros, with properties mostly located in Austria and Germany,
according to the statement.  
 “This entire move looks earnings and value accretive to
us,”  Hasim Senguel , an analyst at DZ Bank in Frankfurt, wrote
in a note to investors today.  
 Conwert set a minimum acceptance threshold of 50 percent
and one share. The offer documents will be published following
regulatory approval.  
 Conwert  rose  3.4 percent to 9.05 euros in Vienna, its
highest close since April 26. Eco  climbed  the most since March
25, surging 15 percent to 6.41 euros.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoe Schneeweiss  in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        