-- Adults With Leukemia Survive With Cord Blood Treatment, Research Finds
-- Ellen Gibson
-- 2010-06-15T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/cord-blood-viable-option-for-treating-adult-leukemia-patients-study-finds.html

          
          
             Adult leukemia patients who can’t
find compatible donors for blood or bone-marrow cells needed for
treatment may live just as long if they receive umbilical-cord
blood, researchers reported in a study that may change medical
practice.  
 Patients who received cord-blood transplants had similar
disease-free survival as those given cells or bone marrow from a
nonfamily donor, according to research reported online today in
the journal Lancet Oncology. Among patients whose disease was in
remission at the time they received their transplants, 40
percent to 55 percent were alive and leukemia-free at the two-
year mark, regardless of the source of the graft, the study
found.  
 While  cord blood  from public banks is used in children with
leukemia, studies until now have shown conflicting results in
adults. These findings support the use of cord-blood transplants
for adults when a donor match cannot be found and when a
transplant is needed urgently, the report said.  
 “Clinicians should not waste time if it is thought that a
patient is in imminent danger of progression and should move
toward cord-blood transplantation,” said  Paul Szabolcs , a
professor of pediatrics at Duke University Medical Center, in
comment accompanying the research. This report “should bolster
efforts to increase the inventory of public cord-blood banks,”
he added.  
 For a leukemia patient in need of a transplant, the ideal
donor is a sibling with a similar blood type. Otherwise, a non-
relative with matched blood can be used, which is hard to find.  
 Runaway Blood Cells  
 Leukemia, a runaway growth of blood cells, starts in the
bone marrow where blood cells are formed. Healthy bone marrow is
transplanted into leukemia patients because it contains stem
cells that help the body produce normal blood cells to replace
the diseased ones. Umbilical-cord blood is another source of
regenerative stem cells, one reason that many parents elect to
bank their babies’ cord blood at birth.  
 Companies involved in collecting and processing cord blood
include  Cord Blood America Inc.  and  PerkinElmer Inc.   
 When patients search for a nonfamily donor with compatible
cells, doctors may need two to three months to check the
compatibility of the donor’s cells.  
 “If it’s your first remission, you may have time to play
with, but if you’ve already relapsed once, you don’t have the
time to sit around for three months when umbilical cord blood is
readily available,” said Mary Eapen, lead author of the study
and associate professor at the Medical College of Wisconsin.
“Now we know that cord blood works just as well.”  
 Unrelated Donors  
 For the study, researchers in the U.S. and Europe compared
the survival of 165 adult patients who received cord-blood to
1,360 patients who got blood cells or bone marrow from unrelated
donors who were deemed compatible based on their blood types.  
 The cord-blood group showed a lower rate of acute  graft-
versus-host disease , a dangerous complication that occurs when a
patient’s immune system attacks the newly transplanted material,
according to the report. Yet patients who received cord blood
took longer to recover and died more often from transplant-
related complications than those who had other types of
transplants, the paper said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ellen Gibson  in New York at 
 egibson9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        