-- Corn Imports by Japan May Drop 2.1% on Foot-and-Mouth Disease, Unipac Says
-- Aya Takada
-- 2010-06-15T02:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/corn-imports-by-japan-may-drop-2-1-on-foot-and-mouth-disease-unipac-says.html

          
          
             Corn purchases by Japan, the world’s
biggest importer, may drop by about 2.1 percent this year as an
outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease has spurred a mass cull of
pigs and cattle, Unipac Grain Ltd. forecast.  
 Feed-corn demand may decline by about 250,000 metric tons
from last year’s 12 million tons, said  Nobuyuki Chino , president
of the Tokyo-based grain trader. The government is culling 2.1
percent of the country’s swine herd and 1.5 percent of its
cattle and cows to prevent the disease from spreading beyond
Miyazaki prefecture in southern Japan, the second-largest pig-
farming region and third-largest beef producer.  
 The cull will cut feed demand, leading to lower production
by feed makers such as  Marubeni Nisshin Feed Co . Corn is the
largest ingredient in Japanese animal feed, representing 48
percent of the total, according to data from the  Ministry of
Agriculture , Forestry and Fisheries. Reduced purchases by Japan
may extend the grain’s 10 percent decline this year in Chicago.  
 “Importers are going to decrease corn purchases
gradually,” said Chino, who has traded grains for three decades
and worked for Continental Grain Co. of the U.S. before
establishing his company in 1999. “If the disease spreads to
other prefectures, demand may weaken further.”  
 December-delivery corn on the Chicago Board of Trade
declined 0.7 percent to $3.7225 a bushel at 11:28 a.m. in Tokyo.  
 Japan’s feed production grew 1.2 percent to 24.8 million
tons in the year ended March 31, expanding for a fifth-straight
year, ministry  data  show. Output may drop by 480,000 tons this
year, Chino said in a telephone interview yesterday, based on
his talks with contacts in the feed industry.  
 Pigs, Cattle  
 Feed for pigs represented 6.2 million tons, or 25 percent
of the total output last fiscal year, according to the ministry.
Feed for beef cattle and dairy cows accounted for 18 percent and
13 percent respectively.  
 Japan imported 10.6 million tons of feed corn from the U.S.,
or 96 percent of its total purchases, in the year ended Dec. 31,
 data  from the Ministry of Finance show.  
 “Feed demand may drop in line with the number of culled
animals,” said Tokio Tsuji at the livestock production and feed
division of the agriculture ministry. “It is hard to project
how big the decrease would be” as the disease hasn’t yet been
contained, he said.  
 The first case of the disease was found on a cattle farm in
Tsuno, a town in the eastern area of Miyazaki, on April 20. It
was the first outbreak in Japan since 2000, and hadn’t been seen
in 92 years at the time.  
 Wagyu Cattle  
 The outbreak has threatened the trade of so-called “wagyu”
meat, also known as Kobe-style beef, known for its flavor and
tenderness and often priced at a premium to other cuts. Exports
have stopped to markets such as Vietnam, the U.S. and Singapore,
according to the agriculture ministry. Animals within a radius
of 20 kilometers of infected farms aren’t allowed to be shipped
out of the area.  
 Japan has so far culled and buried 147,000 pigs, and will
slaughter additional 60,000, including uninfected ones, said
Tomohiro Nishio at the ministry’s animal health division. The
government has also culled 23,000 cattle and cows and will
slaughter an additional 43,000, he said.  
 The disease spread to Miyakonojo city, which includes a
countryside area in south Miyazaki, last week, raising the risk
it could extend to Kagoshima prefecture, Japan’s largest pig-
farming region and second-biggest beef producer.  
 Kagoshima had 1.34 million pigs and 376,200 beef cattle as
of Feb. 1, 2009, representing 14 percent of Japan’s total swine
herd and 13 percent of beef cattle.  
 Foot-and-mouth is one of the most contagious livestock
diseases and can have high mortality rates in young animals,
according to the Paris-based World Organization for Animal
Health, or  OIE .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        