-- Corus Bankshares Files For Federal Bankruptcy Court Protection in Illinois
-- David McLaughlin
-- 2010-06-15T23:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/corus-bankshares-files-for-u-s-bankruptcy-court-protection-from-creditors.html

          
          
             Corus Bankshares Inc. , the holding
company whose bank was seized by regulators in September after
persistent losses on construction loans, sought bankruptcy
protection from creditors.  
 The filing today comes about nine months after regulators
closed Corus Bank and sold its $7 billion in deposits to  MB
Financial Inc. . Investors led by Starwood Capital Group bought a
stake in a pool of the bank’s loans.  
 Corus Bankshares’ investment in the bank “has become
effectively worthless,” Chief Executive  Randy Curtis  said in
papers filed in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Chicago. The bank’s
loan portfolio was concentrated in loans secured by condominium
projects under construction, according to the filing.  
 Corus listed assets of $314.1 million and debt of $532.9
million in its bankruptcy filing. Most of the debt -- about
$416.6 million -- is in the form of subordinated debt, according
to court papers.  
 Curtis said in the court filing that the company decided
“it was appropriate to continue its restructuring efforts” in
bankruptcy court.  David Seligman , a bankruptcy lawyer for the
company, couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  
 The company is scheduled to appear before U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge  Pamela Hollis  tomorrow to seek permission to take routine
steps to continue operating, including paying employees and
preserving certain tax benefits.  
 Michael Minnaugh , Corus’s chief financial officer, gave
notice of his resignation on June 11, the company said today in
a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The
resignation is effective June 30.  
 The case is In re Corus Bankshares Inc., 10-26881, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        