-- Crude Oil Futures Increase to One-Month High on Euro's Gain Versus Dollar
-- Mark Shenk
-- 2010-06-15T20:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/crude-oil-trades-above-75-a-barrel-in-new-york-before-inventory-report.html

          
          
             Crude oil rose to a one-month high
in New York as the euro gained against the dollar, bolstering
the appeal of commodities, and on forecasts that a government
report will show U.S. supplies fell for a third week.  
 Oil climbed 2.4 percent after the 16-nation currency
strengthened, following increases in global stock markets. U.S.
crude-oil  inventories  probably declined 1 million barrels in the
week ended June 11, according to the median of 15 analyst
responses in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 “The bulls are trying to move oil higher, and they’ve been
getting intermittent support from the euro and dollar,” said
 Peter Beutel , president of energy adviser Cameron Hanover Inc.
in New Canaan, Connecticut.  
 Crude oil for July delivery rose $1.82 to $76.94 a barrel
on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest settlement
price since May 6. Futures are up 8.9 percent from a year ago.  
 Prices retreated from the settlement after the American
Petroleum Institute reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles rose 579,000 barrels to 358.7 million. July oil
advanced $1.71, or 2.3 percent, to $76.83 a barrel in electronic
trading at 4:34 p.m.  
 Brent crude oil for July settlement climbed $1, or 1.3
percent, to end the session at $76.20 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the highest settlement
since May 14. The July contract expired today. The more active
August futures rose $1.44, or 1.9 percent, to $77.10 a barrel.  
 Strengthening Euro  
 The euro strengthened to $1.234, up 1 percent from $1.2221
yesterday. The currency touched $1.1877 on June 7, the lowest
level since March 2006, on concern that the debt crisis in
Greece will spread to other countries in the region. The Greek
credit ranking was cut to junk by Moody’s Investors Service
yesterday.  
 “Investors are finally getting over the Greece issue,”
said  Carl Larry , president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in
Houston. “The euro is rising despite the country’s credit
rating being downgraded because there’s a realization that
Greece is only a small part of the overall European economy, and
the continent as a whole will grow.”  
 Futures also rose along with equities as expansion in New
York manufacturing added to signals the global economy is
weathering Europe’s debt crisis. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
increased 25.60, or 2.3 percent, to 1,115.23.  
 “Each point on the S&P is reason for the bulls to send the
oil market seven to 10 cents higher,” said  Tim Evans , an energy
analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York. “The bulls are
looking at stocks, the euro, the dollar, anything to send the
market higher.”  
 New York Manufacturing  
 Manufacturing in the New York region expanded in June. The
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic index rose
to 19.6, an 11th consecutive month of growth and in line with
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 “The market is starting to get interesting again,” Larry
said. “There’s renewed confidence that the global economy is
expanding and we should see oil shoot back to $85.”  
 Oil in New York moved above the 200-day moving average for
the first time in a month today. This is a technical indicator
that prices will extend increases, said  Stephen Schork ,
president of consultant Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
Pennsylvania.  
 The Energy Department will probably report that gasoline
 inventories  were little changed last week, the Bloomberg News
survey of analysts showed. Stockpiles of distillate fuel, a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, were forecast to
climb 1 million barrels. The department is scheduled to release
its weekly report tomorrow at 10:30 a.m. in Washington.  
 Obama Speech  
 President  Barack Obama  plans to speak to the nation tonight
about the worst oil spill in U.S. history, which began when a
drilling rig leased by BP Plc exploded on April 20. BP Chairman
 Carl-Henric Svanberg  has been called to a meeting at the White
House tomorrow.  
 Energy companies, rig operators and lawmakers in oil-
producing states have urged the Obama administration to lift or
shorten a six-month moratorium on deepwater exploration that has
idled more than two dozen drilling vessels and threatens
thousands of jobs.  
 “We acknowledge the reasons for the President’s decision
to pause deepwater drilling,”  Marvin Odum , president of U.S.
operations for The Hague-based Royal Dutch Shell Plc, said in
prepared remarks before the House Energy Committee in Washington
today. “But it is not without consequence: thousands of lost
jobs, and billions in lost wages and spending.”  
 Oil volume on the Nymex was 562,215 contracts as of 4:32
p.m. in electronic trading in New York. Volume totaled 608,495
contracts yesterday, the lowest level since May 24 and 22
percent less than the average of the past three months. Open
interest was 1.35 million contracts.  
 The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Representative Edolphus Towns, a Democrat from New York and chairman of the House Oversight Committee, talks about BP Plc's oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and the outlook for offshore drilling and industry regulation.
     Towns talks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
