-- U.S. Airlines See `Dramatic' Business Travel Recovery
-- Mary Schlangenstein
-- 2010-06-15T20:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/delta-amr-add-revenue-as-airlines-see-dramatic-business-travel-recovery.html

          
          
             Delta Air Lines Inc.  and  American
Airlines , the largest U.S.  carriers , forecast second-quarter
gains of at least 17 percent on a benchmark for industry revenue
as rising demand buoys fares.  
 Passenger revenue for each seat flown a mile will climb
about 20 percent, Atlanta-based Delta said today at a Bank of
America-Merrill Lynch conference in New York. American parent
 AMR Corp.  said revenue on the same basis from its main jet
operations would increase at least 17 percent.  
 Analysts watch so-called unit revenue because it measures
what airlines earn on each available seat. After cutting fares
and capacity when business fliers dwindled in the recession,
Delta, American and other big carriers are flying fuller planes
and charging more for tickets.  
 “The industry appears to be turning a corner,” US Airways
Group Inc. President  Scott Kirby  told investors at the
conference. “We’ve seen a dramatic recovery in business
travel.”  
 The  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index  of 12 carriers rose 2.6
percent at 4 p.m. in New York for a sixth straight gain, the
longest advance since March 29, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Airlines Rise  
 Delta  climbed 30 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $13.99 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading, while Fort Worth, Texas-
based AMR added 34 cents, or 4 percent, to $8.79.  US Airways 
jumped 80 cents, or 8.3 percent, to $10.46, the highest since
Nov. 3, 2008.  
 International flights are leading the boost for  Delta , with
unit revenue up 50 percent on Asian markets in June and 30
percent on routes across the Atlantic, President  Ed Bastian  said
in New York. American and  Continental Airlines Inc.  also said
business travel was especially strong in Asia.  
 “The recovery is on,” Continental Chief Executive Officer
 Jeff Smisek  told investors. The airline is benefiting from more
corporate fliers and a higher average fare per mile, he said.  
 Business passengers are prized in the industry because they
often fly at the last moment and tend to pay the highest prices.
Corporate-travel revenue jumped 50 percent in May from a year
earlier at Tempe, Arizona-based  US Airways , Kirby said.  
 ‘Traction on Pricing’  
 “There haven’t yet been big increases across the
industry,” Kirby said of airlines’ recent ticket-price moves.
“There have been some tactical fare increases in recent weeks.
I’m optimistic that, given the strong revenue environment we and
others are seeing, that we’ll start getting some traction on
pricing.”  
 Companies also are rescinding requirements from the past
two years that employees travel on cheaper coach tickets,
American CEO Gerard Arpey said.  
 The comments by Delta, American, Continental and US Airways
built on yesterday’s forecast by United Airlines parent  UAL
Corp.  that unit revenue on its main jets would rise as much as
29 percent this quarter.  
 United and Continental agreed last month to a merger that
would create the world’s biggest airline, vaulting past Delta.
Chicago-based United and Houston-based Continental are now the
third- and fourth-largest carriers in the U.S.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Passenger revenue for each seat flown a mile will climb about 20 percent, according to Atlanta-based Delta Airlines. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
