-- Deutsche Bank Names Anshu Jain as Sole Head of Its Investment-Banking Unit
-- Jacqueline Simmons
-- 2010-06-15T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/deutsche-bank-names-jain-anshu-as-sole-head-of-its-investment-banking-unit.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest
bank, named  Anshu Jain  the sole head of its corporate and
investment bank, the company’s biggest money maker.  
 Jain, 47, will assume responsibilities for the corporate
finance and transaction banking units from  Michael Cohrs , 53,
who plans to retire, the Frankfurt-based bank said yesterday.
Jain will take over Cohrs’s duties on July 1.  
 Jain helped build Deutsche Bank into a bond-market
powerhouse since becoming co-head of the investment bank in
2004. His expanded role may position him to succeed Chief
Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , whose contract runs until
2013, analysts said. The corporate and investment bank generated
more than 90 percent of group profit in the first quarter,
buoyed by Jain’s sales and trading division.  
 “The investment bank has been the success and profit
driver and Jain deserves the credit,” said  Lutz Roehmeyer , who
helps manage about $15 billion at Landesbank Berlin Investment,
including Deutsche Bank shares. “He’s definitely a favorite to
succeed Ackermann at the moment.”  
 Ackermann, 62, agreed in April 2009 to extend his tenure
until 2013 after the supervisory board failed to choose a
successor. The Swiss-born CEO said last week he plans to fulfill
his contract because he wants to help reshape the financial
regulatory system.  
 Investment-Banking Rebound  
 Jain led a turnaround at the investment bank in 2009, a
year after the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression
pummeled stock and bond trading and led to Deutsche Bank’s first
 annual loss  in more than 50 years. He cut assets by about 50
percent at the global markets unit and shut credit proprietary
trading to curb risk amid the financial crisis.  
 Deutsche Bank, which sidestepped the worst of the credit
crunch and eschewed a government bailout,  advanced  11 percent in
the past year in Frankfurt trading. The  Bloomberg Europe  Banks
and Financial Services Index, which tracks 52 companies, gained
8.9 percent during the period.  
 “Anshu Jain is taking over a strong business division,”
Ackermann said in the statement. “We are confident that he will
build on this success.”  
 Deutsche Bank’s supervisory board approved Cohr’s request
to retire at the end of September. He will join the bank’s
European advisory board on Oct. 1, the company said.  
 Regulatory Risks  
 Jain plans to spend about 1.6 billion euros on hiring and
technology for the global markets unit in the next two years to
break into the top five in commodities and U.S. cash equities.
While the fixed-income division accounts for about 80 percent of
sales and trading revenue, Jain also reorganized the equities
unit and posted the best result since 2007 in the first quarter.  
 Deutsche Bank aims to double pretax profit at the operating
businesses by 2011 to 10 billion euros from 2009, helped by
gains in investment banking and Asia. The  investment bank  is
forecast to earn 6.3 billion euros in profit next year.  
 Challenges for the financial industry include risks related
to sovereign deficits, tighter regulation and product liability,
Jain said in May.  
 Governments have pushed for more oversight of derivatives,
curbs on riskier activities such as proprietary trading and
higher capital requirements to avoid a repeat of the credit
crisis. New rules may cut Deutsche Bank’s net income by 13
percent, Citigroup Inc. analyst  Kinner Lakhani  wrote in a report
in April.  
 Jain, born in Jaipur in India’s Rajasthan state, joined
Deutsche Bank in 1995 from Merrill Lynch & Co., following his
mentor  Edson Mitchell  to the German bank. After the 47-year-old
Mitchell died in a plane crash before Christmas in 2000, Jain
took over as head of debt. He was picked to run the combined
debt and equity sales and trading unit in 2004.  
 Cohrs Steps Down  
 Jain and Cohrs joined Deutsche Bank’s management board in
April 2009, along with  Rainer Neske , 45, the head of private and
business clients, and regional management chief  Juergen Fitschen , 61.  
 Jain, who is based in London, has helped Deutsche Bank
become one of the largest players in the debt market, ranking
second globally this year in international bonds and first in
Europe, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Cohrs, who has run corporate and investment banking with
Jain since 2004, is retiring after 15 years at the bank, people
familiar with his plans said earlier this month. He is leaving
after helping the German lender move into the top five in
mergers and acquisitions globally this year.  
 Cohrs, an American who has an MBA from Harvard University,
appointed  Stephan Leithner , 44, and  Jacques Brand , 49, as co-
heads of global coverage in October to oversee the firm’s
investment bankers. He made M&A co-head  Brett Olsher , 49,
chairman of the global clients executive committee, in charge of
leading relationships and transactions with clients.  
 Leaving India  
 Jain studied economics at Sri Ram College of Commerce at
Delhi University, earning a bachelor’s degree with honors. He
didn’t travel farther than Afghanistan until he was 20, when he
followed his wife, Geetika, and her family to the U.S.  
 Jain enrolled in business school at the University of
Massachusetts at Amherst, where he learned about derivatives --
financial instruments derived from stocks, bonds, loans,
currencies and commodities, or linked to specific events like
changes in the weather or interest rates.  
 After graduating in 1985, he joined Kidder Peabody & Co.,
which was acquired the following year by General Electric Co.
and is now part of Zurich-based  UBS AG , as a research analyst.
Three years later, he moved to Merrill as a derivatives
strategist and then a salesman.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Deutsche Bank names Jain head of investment banking  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Deutsche Bank's Anshu Jain. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Deutsche Bank's Anshu Jain. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
