-- Deutsche Bank, Fiat, Mediaset SpA, Zodiac Aerospace: Europe Equity Preview
-- Kelly Bit
-- 2010-06-15T21:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/deutsche-bank-fiat-mediaset-spa-zodiac-aerospace-europe-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following companies’ shares may
have unusual moves in  European  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are from the last close.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained 0.7 percent to 254.28.
The  Stoxx 50 Index  rose 0.6 percent to 2,458.32. The  Euro Stoxx
50 Index , a benchmark for nations using the euro, advanced 1.2
percent to 2,716.30.  
 Deutsche Bank AG  (DBK GY): Germany’s biggest bank named
 Anshu Jain  the sole head of its corporate and investment bank,
the company’s biggest money maker. The shares rose 2 percent to
49.54 euros.  
 Fiat SpA  (F IM): The carmaker signed an agreement with four
labor unions on its Pomigliano d’Arco plant near Naples, said a
company official. A fifth union, the Fiom-Cgil, didn’t sign the
accord, the spokesman said. Fiat plans to make a decision on the
feasibility of the agreement after a worker referendum that will
be held at the factory next week. The shares gained 1 percent to
9.32 euros.  
 Infineon Technologies AG  (IFX GY): The chipmaker is
weighing options for its mobile-chip unit that could include a
sale, according to two people familiar with the matter. It hired
JPMorgan Chase & Co. as an adviser, according to one of the
people, who declined to be identified because the situation is
private. JPMorgan’s London-based spokeswoman Sarah Oppler
declined to comment, as did Infineon spokesman Christian
Hoenicke. The shares advanced 3.4 percent to 5.11 euros.  
 Mediaset SpA  (MS IM): Italy’s biggest private television
broadcaster lost a court challenge of a European Union decision
requiring it to repay millions in subsidies for the purchase of
digital-broadcast decoders. The decision confirmed the subsidies
were unlawful state aid that must be repaid to the Italian
government. The shares rose 3 percent to 5.11 euros.  
 Rodriguez Group  (ROD FP): Chairman Alexandre Rodriguez, who
is involved in a police investigation, stepped down to “protect
the interests” of the company, the maker of luxury yachts said.
Gerard Rodriguez will take over as chairman. The  shares  will
resume trading tomorrow. They last traded June 8, when they fell
9.1 percent to 3.79 euros.  
 RWE AG  (RWE GY): Germany’s second-biggest utility may cut
its dividend payout if a tax on the country’s nuclear plant
operators is enacted,  Westdeutsche Allgemeine Zeitung  said,
citing Chief Financial Officer  Rolf Pohlig . The shares gained
0.7 percent to 57.29 euros.  
 Zodiac Aerospace  SA (ZC FP): Europe’s biggest maker of
airplane seats said its outlook is improving on a stronger
dollar and a recovery in the aerospace industry. Third-quarter
revenue rose to 583.3 million euros from 568.7 million euros a
year earlier. The shares rose 0.6 percent to 43.88 euros.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Esmé E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        