-- Deutsche Bank Loses Appeals Case Over Votes Taken at Shareholder Meeting
-- Karin Matussek
-- 2010-06-15T15:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/deutsche-bank-loses-appeals-case-over-votes-taken-at-shareholder-meeting.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest
bank, lost an appeals court ruling over votes at its 2008
shareholder meeting, including the re-election of  Clemens Boersig  to its supervisory board, a lawyer for the bank said.  
 The Frankfurt Higher Regional Court backed a lower tribunal
that said shareholders weren’t properly invited to the meeting,
Markus Meier, a lawyer for Deutsche Bank, said in an interview
today.  
 “The ruling conflicts with several decisions of other
German appeals courts and even with the assessments of other
chambers of the same court,” Meier said. “We will ask
Germany’s top civil court to review the case and are optimistic
that we will prevail in the end.”  
 The suit is one of about a dozen filed by  Leo Kirch , the
German businessman who blames  Deutsche Bank  for the collapse of
his media empire. Among the plaintiffs is  Michael Bohndorf , a
Deutsche Bank shareholder targeted by detectives hired by the
lender.  
 The appeals court said at hearing last month Deutsche
Bank’s invitation to the meeting may have limited shareholders’
rights to appoint a representative by seemingly requiring a
three-day notice period. The way the invitation was drafted may
have deterred some shareholders from asserting their right to be
represented at the meeting, the court had said.  
 Kirch started a legal battle against the lender after the
bank’s former chief executive officer  Rolf Breuer  commented
about the creditworthiness of Kirch’s former media group on
Bloomberg TV in February 2002. Kirch has sued the bank over each
annual shareholder meeting at Deutsche Bank since 2003.  
 The case is OLG Frankfurt, 5 U 144/09.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        