-- Dow Wins $61.7 Million in Patent Damages From Nova Over Store-Bag Plastics
-- Phil Milford
-- 2010-06-15T17:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/dow-wins-61-7-million-in-patent-damages-from-nova-over-store-bag-plastics.html

          
          
             Dow Chemical Co. , the largest U.S.
chemical maker, won $61.7 million in damages as a jury found
that rival  Nova Chemicals Corp.  infringed two of its patents for
super-strong plastics used in grocery bags.  
 Dow, based in Midland, Michigan, sued Calgary-based Nova in
federal court in 2005 in Wilmington, Delaware, over the patents,
awarded since 1998. Today’s verdict followed a two-week trial.  
 “They are infringing on our property rights” by making
the tough, thin-plastic film, lawyer  Harry J. Roper ,
representing Dow, told the jury. “They knew exactly what they
were doing.”  
 The panel of five women and three men deliberated about
three hours before also deciding the patents are valid. The
damages included $57.4 million in lost profit and $4.3 million
in royalties, according to the verdict read in court.  
 “Nova does not infringe Dow’s patents” and the patents
“are invalid” because some data are missing and the written
description is inadequate, Nova’s lawyer,  Ford Farabow Jr. ,
argued to the jury and supervising Judge  Joseph J. Farnan Jr.   
 Neither lawyer would comment after the verdict.  
 “The jury’s verdict is a critical step in establishing
that Dow’s patents are valid and enforceable,” and the company
“will continue to pursue all legal remedies available to
protect this valuable intellectual property,” a Dow spokesman,
 Bob Plishka , said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Nova Statement  
 “We are disappointed with the verdict, but the final
outcome of the case is still uncertain, and we expect to
prevail,” said  Greg Wilkinson , a Nova spokesman. He said “a
major issue regarding standing” has yet to be considered at a
nonjury trial.  
 Dow contended in its complaint that Nova imported
polyethylene products since 2003 in violation of the patents.
Nova is owned by the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. It was bought by Abu
Dhabi interests last year.  
 Dow rose 68 cents to $26.58 at 1:10 p.m.in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading .  
 The case is Dow Chemical Co., v. Nova Chemicals Corp., 05-
cv-737, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To see the patents: 5,847,053 and 6,111,023.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware,
 at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        