-- Drogba Wows World Cup Crowd, Fails to Break 0-0 Stalemate Against Portugal
-- Dan Baynes
-- 2010-06-15T23:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/drogba-excites-world-cup-crowd-fails-to-break-portugal-0-0-stalemate.html

          
          
             Didier Drogba’s  return from surgery
on a broken arm excited the World Cup crowd even though the
Ivory Coast striker couldn’t provide the spark to break a
stalemate in a 0-0 group match draw against Portugal.  
 The African player of the year’s introduction as a second-
half substitute yesterday was greeted by cheers that drowned out
the vuvuzela trumpets and drums at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in
Port Elizabeth, South Africa.  
 “I said to the manager if he needed me I was gonna be
there,” Drogba, who wore a protective cast, told reporters.  
 Drogba was in doubt after fracturing his right arm playing
in a June 4 tune-up match against Japan. He was given clearance
to wear a lightweight cast after match referee Jorge Larrionda
and Portugal officials said they were satisfied it doesn’t pose
a danger to other players.  
 Portugal captain  Cristiano Ronaldo , the world’s most-
expensive player, had held the attention of the crowd of 37,034
until Ivory Coast coach  Sven-Goran Eriksson  brought on Drogba
for  Salomon Kalou  in the 66th minute.  
 “I spoke to him after training yesterday evening and he
said he preferred to be on the bench,” Eriksson, who took over
as coach of the Elephants in March, told reporters. “I hoped we
would not need him but we wanted to win the game so we did what
we did. We did not put any pressure on him.”  
 Drogba, who scored 36 goals last season to help Chelsea
secure England’s Premier League and F.A. Cup titles, got his
only chance in stoppage time, though he hooked Kader Keita’s
pass across the goal from a narrow angle.  
 Brazil Next  
 Drogba said the only time he felt pain was when he fell to
the ground, adding that he “could be ready” to start in Ivory
Coast’s next match against record five-time world champion
Brazil on June 20 in Johannesburg.  
 “I have a few days to improve my condition,” he said. “I
couldn’t work when I was in hospital. I will be better.”  
 The result against Portugal left the six African teams at
the tournament with one victory from their opening matches:
Ghana’s 1-0 win over Serbia.  
 Drogba said drawing with a Portugal squad that’s  ranked  24
places above his team was a “fantastic result” in his
country’s second appearance at soccer’s four-yearly
championship. The Elephants made their debut four years ago in
Germany.  
 “You can only be satisfied because of the young history of
Ivory Coast in the World Cup,” Drogba said. “The draw against
the third nation in the FIFA rankings is amazing for us, a small
country like Ivory Coast. I’m really proud of the result we
achieved.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Port Elizabeth through the Johannesburg newsroom
   dbaynes@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        