-- Dubai World Loans May Have Lost 56% as Terms Altered, JPMorgan Estimates
-- Haris Anwar
-- 2010-06-15T13:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/dubai-world-banks-may-need-10-provision-to-cover-loss-credit-suisse-says.html

          
          
             Dubai World’s creditor banks may
have lost as much as 56 percent of the value of the loans they
made to the state-owned holding company after it altered the
terms on $14.4 billion of debt, and lenders may have to aside 10
percent of these loans to cover losses, analysts said.  
 Dubai World’s loans have a fair value of 44 cents to 46
cents to the dollar after the restructuring proposal, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. said in a research report e-mailed today. The
company’s $4.4 billion of Group A debt has a fair value of 58
cents to 61 cents, and $10 billion of Group B debt a fair value
of 36 cents to 41 cents, it said.  
 “The steep discounts from face value mostly reflect the
below-market cash interest of 1 to 2 percent being proposed by
Dubai World on both tranches,” London-based analyst  Zafar Nazim 
wrote in the report. He estimated the “appropriate yield” for
Dubai World bank debt at 14 percent to 17 percent.  
 Dubai World, the holding company whose Nakheel PJSC real-
estate unit is building palm-tree shaped islands off the
emirate’s coast, said May 20 it reached an agreement with its
main creditor group to restructure $14.4 billion of bank debt
and $8.9 billion of government liabilities as it seeks to
resolve a debt crisis that roiled global markets last year. It
said banks would be paid $4.4 billion in five years and another
$10 billion over eight years at below-market interest rates.  
 Dubai World’s creditor banks may have to set aside 10
percent of the value of their loans to the company to cover
losses after the company’s debt restructuring,  Credit Suisse
Group AG  analyst  Mohamad Hawa  said today.  
 Loan losses  
 “The effective haircut could be higher than that,” Hawa,
head of Middle East and North Africa equity research at Credit
Suisse, said at a presentation on Gulf equity markets in Dubai.
“You can arguably say it’s between 30 to 40 percent,” although
the provisions the banks would have to take would be lower
because of accounting and central bank regulations, he said.  
 The global credit crunch has battered Dubai’s real-estate
market and left the emirate’s companies unable to raise loans to
repay debt. Property prices have fallen 50 percent in the city
as banks reduced mortgage lending and speculators fled.  
 Dubai World’s seven biggest lenders --  Emirates NBD PJSC 
and Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC from the United Arab Emirates
and foreign lenders Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,  HSBC
Holdings Plc , Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Standard Chartered Plc
and  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd . -- negotiated the new debt
terms with Dubai World on behalf of more than 90 banks.  
 Interest Rates  
 In the proposal announced May 20, Dubai World offered banks
various combinations of interest rates and principal repayment
options depending on whether they lent in dollars or dirhams.
Banks will be paid 1 percent interest on the loans maturing in
five years. Lenders have three options under the eight-year
maturities, with at least 1 percent interest and varying
additional rates from 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent at maturity.
Two of these options also have shortfall guarantees.  
 The combined non-performing loans of six of the seven
largest banks in the U.A.E. that Credit Suisse covers may rise
to 3.9 percent of gross loans in 2010 from 2.8 percent at the
end of last year, Hawa said. Overall bank lending is likely to
grow by 8 percent this year, although liquidity will remain
tight over the next two years because of debt restructuring at
some of Dubai’s state-owned companies, Hawa said.  
 National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the U.A.E.’s second-
biggest bank by assets, and Abu Dhabi-based  First Gulf Bank PJSC 
are the best U.A.E. bank stocks to buy, Hawa said.  
 Economies in the Middle East and Africa region are expected
to record “sustained” economic growth over the medium to
longer term,  Kamran Butt , head of Middle East equity research
for Credit Suisse’s private bank, said at the conference.
Economic growth in the region will rebound this year, with
Qatar’s economy growing the fastest, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        