-- East African Cement Association Calls for 35% Tariff to Protect Industry
-- Sarah McGregor
-- 2010-06-15T10:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/east-african-cement-association-calls-for-35-tariff-to-protect-industry.html

          
          
             The East African Cement Producers
Association called for the import tariff on the building
material to be increased to 35 percent, or $50 per metric ton,
whichever is higher, to protect the industry from cheap supplies
from Asia.  
 Without protection, the industry “is faced with imminent
plant closures and job losses,” the association, which
represents cement-makers in Uganda, Tanzania, Kenya and Rwanda,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 East African governments agreed in 2008 to reduce the
tariff to 25 percent from 40 percent, shortly before the global
financial crisis left the world with a cement glut, the
association said.  
 The industry has invested $1 billion over the past two
years, raising production to an annual 10 million metric tons
from 6.4 million tons, enough to meet local demand, according to
the statement. High transport and electricity prices make it
difficult to compete with companies in countries such as
Pakistan where those costs are subsidized, it said.  
 “Countries such as Pakistan and China didn’t have
sufficient local demand and had to find new markets to sustain
their capacity,” the statement said, citing EACPA Tanzania
chapter Chairman Mbuvi Ngunze.  
 Members of the EACPA in Kenya are Bamburi Cement Co. Ltd.,
run by Lafarge SA, East African Portland Cement Co. Ltd., the
country’s second-biggest maker, and Athi River Mining Ltd.  
 In Tanzania, they include Tanzania Portland Cement Co.
Ltd., a unit of HeidelbergCement AG, Tanga Cement Co. Ltd.,
majority owned by Afrisam Ltd., and Mbeya Cement Co. Ltd. Mbeya,
along with Uganda’s Hima Cement Ltd., are also owned by Lafarge.  
 Tororo Cement Co. Ltd. of Uganda and Cimerwa Ltd. in Rwanda
are also members of the association.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Philip Sanders  in London at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        