-- 
Mediaset Challenges EU Over $7.5 Million in Decoder Subsidies

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-05-04T14:20:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/mediaset-loses-appeal-of-european-union-order-to-repay-decoder-state-aid.html
Mediaset SpA (MS) , the company controlled
by Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , told the European
Union’s highest court that an EU order forcing it to repay Italy
about 5 million euros ($7.5 million) in subsidies for the
purchase of digital-broadcast decoders was unsubstantiated.  A lower EU court last year failed to assess whether the
European Commission had “sufficiently established” that
Mediaset benefitted from the subsidies, a lawyer for the Milan-
based company said today.  The EU General Court erred when it ruled “that the
commission was right to find the existence of an economic
benefit by merely relying on abstract and totally unproven
allegations,” Mediaset lawyer Konstantinos Adamantopoulos told
a five-judge panel of the  EU Court of Justice  in Luxembourg.  The Brussels-based European Commission, the executive
agency for the 27-nation EU, in January 2007 said the subsidies
amounted to more than 200 million euros for Italians who
purchased digital terrestrial decoders, while satellite
technology was excluded. Mediaset was among companies that
indirectly benefited from the aid, the commission said.  The lower EU court said last year that the measure had not
been “technologically neutral.”  “By excluding one of the major players” from being able
to benefit from the subsidies, “Italy created an unnecessary
and excessive distortion of competition,” Bernd Martenczuk, a
lawyer for the commission, told the court.  Mediaset repaid the aid plus interest, amounting to roughly
5 million euros, Martenczuk said.  Mediaset runs three major free-to-air TV channels that
compete with the network of state-owned RAI SpA and satellite
broadcaster  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s  Sky Italia  SpA. Mediaset also controls
Spanish TV station  Gestevision Telecinco SA. (TL5)  The commission
started probing the subsidies after complaints from satellite-
television operators, including Sky Italia and Centro Europa 7.  The case is:  C-403/10 P , Mediaset v Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  