-- Egypt to Offer Investment Opportunities to China Sovereign Wealth Fund
-- Alaa Shahine
-- 2010-06-15T10:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/egypt-to-offer-investment-opportunities-to-china-sovereign-wealth-fund.html

          
          
             Egypt plans to offer China’s $300
billion sovereign wealth fund opportunities to invest in major
infrastructure projects as it seeks to diversify sources of
foreign inflows, Investment Minister  Mahmoud Mohieldin  said.  
 Lou Jiwei , chairman of  China Investment Corp.,  will visit
the Arab country this month “to explore opportunities and
discuss the possibilities of involving the CIC in Egypt,”
Mohieldin told reporters today in Cairo.  
 “We are going to be introducing him to the private sector
of Egypt and some major projects in infrastructure activities,”
he said, without elaborating.  
 Unlike other African countries such as Sudan, Egypt has
seen minimal investment from China. Of the $8.1 billion of
foreign direct investment that the Arab country attracted in the
fiscal year ending June 2009, China contributed $60 million,
according to  Reham El-Desoki , senior economist at Cairo-based
investment bank Beltone Financial.  
 “It’s positive that they have been able to attract
interest from such an institution, especially that this interest
could raise the profile of Egyptian infrastructure projects for
other Chinese investors,” she said by e-mail.  
 The Trade & Industry Ministry said in February that it
expects to attract 85 billion Egyptian pounds ($15 billion) of
investments in new industrial zones located in cities such as
Tenth of Ramadan, Sadat and Bourj Al-Arab.  
 Economic Growth  
 The government expects the economy to expand more than 5
percent this fiscal year, compared with 4.7 percent the previous
year, driven by tourism and construction.  
 Egypt relies on the U.S., Europe and oil-rich Arab
countries for foreign direct investment, which has declined from
a peak of $13 billion in the fiscal year through June 2008 due
to the global financial crisis.  
 The government expects to attract $5.5 billion of foreign
investment in the fiscal year that ends June 30, and has a
target of $8 billion for next year, according to the website of
the Economic Development Ministry.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        