-- Electric-Car Maker Tesla to Sell Shares
-- Alan Ohnsman
-- 2010-06-15T20:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/electric-car-maker-tesla-to-sell-shares-at-14-to-16-in-initial-offering.html

          
          
             Tesla Motors Inc. , the maker of
electric sports cars that hasn’t posted a profit since its
founding in 2003, said it will seek to raise $178 million
selling a 12 percent stake in its initial public offering.  
 The producer of the $109,000 electric Roadster will offer
11.1 million shares at $14 to $16 each on June 29 and use the
proceeds to pay for factories and possible acquisitions, a
Securities and Exchange Commission filing and data compiled by
Bloomberg showed. Tesla filed in January to raise as much as
$100 million without disclosing how many shares it intended to
sell or the price range.  
 The automaker is pushing forward with its sale even after
the European debt crisis spurred at least 34 companies to
postpone or withdraw IPOs since the start of May. Tesla, which
has sold about 1,000 Roadsters while losing $290 million, is
using the share sale and a $465 million loan from the government
to help produce its second electric car, the Model S sedan.  
 “Bringing a completely new type of vehicle to market can
cost $1 billion, and Tesla may be looking at that level of
expense,” said  Eric Noble , president of The CarLab, an
automotive consulting company in Orange, California. “The
danger for the early investor is that if Tesla can’t find the
next section of funding, it’s a bridge to nowhere.”  
 Tesla hired New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan
Stanley and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , along with Deutsche Bank AG in
Frankfurt, to lead the sale.  
 CEO Musk  
 Existing stockholders including Chief Executive Officer
 Elon Musk  will sell 1.1 million shares. He spent more than $70
million of his own money on Tesla before May 2009, when
Stuttgart, Germany-based  Daimler AG  invested $50 million.  
 Musk, who co-founded PayPal Inc., the online payment
company now owned by San Jose, California-based EBay Inc., is
also the CEO of Space Exploration Technologies Inc., a
Hawthorne, California-based company that builds spacecraft.  
 Tesla has delivered more than 1,000 of its electric
Roadster sports cars since 2008 and intends to fill orders for
an additional 1,200. The Model S sedan is going into production
in 2012 in a former Toyota Motor Corp.- General Motors Co.  joint
venture factory in Fremont, California, which the company is
buying for $42 million.  
 Tesla won loans from the U.S. Energy Department in 2009
worth as much as $465 million to get the Model S into production
and expand output of battery packs the company assembles.  
 Divorce Proceedings  
 Under terms of the federal loan, Musk and certain
affiliates must retain 65 percent of their capital stock in
Tesla for a year after completing the Model S project. Musk’s
divorce proceedings won’t result in him owning less than 65
percent or have a material impact on his ability to serve as
CEO, according to filings.  
 Toyota  agreed last month to purchase $50 million in Tesla
shares. Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota and Tesla say they may
cooperate on electric-vehicle development, though they haven’t
signed agreements to do so, filings show.  
 “The Toyota connection may help,” said  John Wolkonowicz ,
an auto analyst at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,
Massachusetts. “It depends on how involved Toyota becomes.”  
 Tesla is also backed by investors including Mountain View,
California-based Google Inc.’s co-founders  Larry Page  and  Sergey Brin , the government of Abu Dhabi, and Daimler, the world’s
second-biggest maker of luxury vehicles.  
 Relative Value  
 At its midpoint price of $15, Tesla is  valued  at 6 times
net tangible book value, a measure of shareholder equity that
excludes assets that can’t be sold in liquidation. That’s about
five times higher than the median ratio of 1.21 for 45
automotive companies globally, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 “The last America auto company started from whole cloth
that had any record of success was Hudson Motors in 1909,”
Wolkonowicz said. “Maybe they’ve found a formula that works,
but history would argue against them.”  
 GM of Detroit has also said that it may sell shares to the
public this year, while Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  Zipcar
Inc. , the car-sharing company that rents vehicles by the hour,
filed this month to raise as much as $75 million in an IPO.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A large touchscreen in Tesla Motors Inc.'s Model S electric car displays a map during day two of the 2010 North American International Auto Show in Detroit on Jan. 12. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          May 21 (Bloomberg) -- Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest automaker, is buying a $50 million stake in the Californian electric-car maker Tesla Motors Inc. as automakers compete to offer low-polluting models in the U.S. Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
