-- Telefonica Wants Portugal Telecom to Pay Special Dividend After Vivo Offer
-- Charles Penty
-- 2010-06-15T15:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/telefonica-wants-portugal-telecom-to-pay-special-dividend-after-vivo-offer.html

          
          
             Telefonica SA  proposed that Portugal
Telecom SGPS SA pay a special  dividend  if the Portuguese
company’s shareholders accept Telefonica’s bid for full control
of a Brazilian joint venture.  
 Portugal Telecom is asking investors to vote June 30 on an
increased 6.5 billion-euro ($8 billion) bid from Telefonica for
its stake in their venture, which controls Brazil’s largest
wireless operator,  Vivo Participacoes SA .  
 Portugal Telecom should pay at least 1 euro per share in a
special dividend if investors accept the bid, Madrid-based
Telefonica said in a regulatory filing today. The dividend would
add to the annual payout of 57.5 euro cents a share that
Portugal Telecom has pledged to give to investors through 2011.  
 Telefonica “appears to be trying to address shareholders’
concerns around reinvestment,” analysts at JPMorgan including
 Daniel Morris  said in a note after the announcement. “However,
we believe the approach could push domestic shareholders further
towards voting against the deal as it could hamper reinvestment
of proceeds.”  
 Portugal Telecom said June 8 that it couldn’t guarantee it
would return any sale proceeds to  shareholders .  Nuno Vasconcellos , chairman of Ongoing Strategy Investments SGPS SA,
owner of a 6.8 percent stake, said yesterday that he plans to
vote against a sale because the offer doesn’t reflect Vivo’s
strategic value to  Portugal Telecom .  
 More ‘Pressure’  
 The chairman of Portugal Telecom’s shareholder meeting is
analyzing Telefonica’s proposal, the Portuguese company said in
a regulatory filing.  
 “Telefonica is trying to improve the perception of the
offer for Portugal Telecom shareholders,”  Pedro Oliveira , an
analyst at Banco BPI SA in Oporto, Portugal, said by phone. “It
does increase the pressure a little bit.”  
 The Spanish company is Portugal Telecom’s biggest investor,
with a 10 percent stake.  
 Portugal Telecom rejected an earlier bid of 5.7 billion
euros and says the latest offer still doesn’t incorporate the
benefits Telefonica could extract from the purchase. The
analysts at JPMorgan said they expect Telefonica to increase the
offer by 500 million euros before the shareholder meeting.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anabela Reis  in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net ;
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        