-- Henderson Says 20 Hong Kong Home Sales Canceled, Including Record Setter
-- Kelvin Wong
-- 2010-06-15T13:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/henderson-land-says-20-pending-luxury-condo-sales-in-hong-kong-canceled.html

          
          
             Henderson Land Development Co. ,
controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Lee Shau-kee , said
prospective buyers canceled purchases of 20 units at a luxury
residential complex and it will take a charge of HK$734 million
($94 million) against earnings.  
 Henderson, which last year claimed a world record selling
one apartment at its  39 Conduit Road  project, included
transactions for 24 units in its financial results even though
the sales hadn’t been completed. Henderson said today that four
of those sales had closed.  
 Henderson made the disclosure to the stock exchange
after Hong Kong’s government repeatedly told the company to
explain home sales that were agreed though not completed.
Henderson said in October it sold an apartment in the project
for a world record HK$88,000 ($11,334) a square foot. That
transaction was one of those canceled, spokeswoman  Bonnie Ngan 
said by telephone.  
 The cancellations are “quite a negative surprise that
nobody was expecting,” said  Raymond Ngai , Hong Kong-based
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “Those record prices they
reported earlier, I doubt they’ll be able to sell them at those
prices again,” Ngai said by telephone. “To sell them for
around HK$30,000 per square foot is still quite possible. But
selling an apartment at HK$70,000 a square foot is just too out 
of line with the market.”  
 No Price Cuts  
 “We won’t be cutting prices,” Lee, Hong Kong’s second-
richest man, told reporters today. “Maybe we’ll make more money
when we sell these apartments again.”  
 Responding to an outcry over rising property prices last
year, Hong Kong raised down-payments on luxury homes to 40
percent from 30 percent and clamped down on marketing techniques.  
 The HK$439 million apartment Henderson said was sold for a
record -- based on usable space excluding common areas -- was
listed on the 68th floor while it was actually on the 45th.
Floor numbers are often skipped in Hong Kong to avoid those
considered unlucky.  
 Henderson included sales of the 24 apartments plus one that
was sold in a completed transaction as part of its revenue of
HK$15.2 billion ($2 billion) for the 18 months ended December
2009, the company reported March 30.  
 Henderson said today it had paid back deposits of 5 percent
of the agreed purchase prices and entered cancellation
agreements, refunding other payments.  
 Prices Climb  
 Home  prices  in Hong Kong have risen 5.7 percent this year,
adding to 2009’s 29 percent advance and raising concerns that
the market is overheating. Hong Kong builders often sell
apartments before they are completed, drawing in customers by
showing models of the homes.  
 The government this month tightened rules on new home sales,
including the use of show apartments and asking developers to
disclose properties sold to their own executives.  
 Financial Secretary  John Tsang  in February announced higher
stamp duty on luxury properties and pledged to raise the supply
of land as it wants to reduce the risk of “a property bubble”
and keep housing affordable.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        