-- Record Hong Kong Home Sale Collapses as Buyers Pull Out of Henderson Deal
-- Kelvin Wong
-- 2010-06-16T05:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/henderson-land-to-take-charge-after-20-hong-kong-apartment-sales-scrapped.html

          
          
             Hong Kong billionaire  Lee Shau-kee ’s
 Henderson Land Development Co.  said the sale of 20 luxury
apartments collapsed, ending HK$2.67 billion ($342 million) in
deals that sparked a government inquiry and fueled efforts to
rein in home prices.  
 Most buyers pulled out of the  39 Conduit Road  project in
Hong Kong’s Mid-Levels district, Henderson said in a filing to
the stock exchange yesterday, responding to government demands
for more information on the sales of 24 units. Henderson said it
has sold four of the units and will record a charge of HK$734
million in its half-year results.  
 The failure of the sales, including a unit that would have
set a world record price of HK$88,000 ($11,300) per square foot,
marks a setback for Hong Kong’s second-richest man as regulators
try to cool the city’s surging property market. Lee had said in
March buyers could have more time to complete the deals.  
 The cancellations are “quite a negative surprise,” said
 Raymond Ngai , Hong Kong-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
“Those record prices they reported earlier, I doubt they’ll be
able to sell them at those prices again,” Ngai said by
telephone. “To sell them for around HK$30,000 per square foot
is still quite possible. But selling an apartment at HK$70,000 a
square foot is just too out of line with the market.”  
 No Price Cuts  
 “We won’t be cutting prices,” Lee, Hong Kong’s second-
richest man, told reporters yesterday. “Maybe we’ll make more
money when we sell these apartments again.”  
 Henderson announced the sale cancellations after the stock
market in Hong Kong closed yesterday and the market is shut for
a public holiday today. Henderson Land  shares  closed at HK$47.80
yesterday and have slumped 18 percent this year, the biggest
drop among the seven-member  Hang Seng Property Index .  
 Responding to an outcry over rising property prices last
year, Hong Kong raised down-payments on luxury homes to 40
percent from 30 percent and clamped down on marketing techniques.  
 The HK$439 million apartment Henderson had said was sold
for a record -- based on usable space excluding common areas --
was listed on the 68th floor while it was actually on the 45th.
Floor numbers are often skipped in Hong Kong to avoid those
considered unlucky.  
 Henderson included sales of the 24 apartments plus one that
was sold in a completed transaction as part of its revenue of
HK$15.2 billion for the 18 months ended December 2009, the
company reported March 30.  
 Prices Climb  
 The total price of the 20 apartments whose sales collapsed
came to HK$2.67 billion, Henderson spokeswoman  Bonnie Ngan  said
by telephone today.  
 Henderson said yesterday it was confident in selling the
apartments because of the “prestigious” location, and will be
“sparing” with sales.  
 Hong Kong’s government responded to Henderson’s filing,
saying “clear market information” is important to the city.
“The government is determined to create a fairer and a more
transparent environment for flat purchasers,” the government
said in a press release on its website.  
 Home  prices  in Hong Kong have risen 5.7 percent this year,
adding to 2009’s 29 percent advance and raising concerns the
market is overheating. Hong Kong builders often sell apartments
before they are completed, drawing in customers by showing
models of the homes.  
 The government this month tightened rules on new home sales,
including the use of show apartments and asking developers to
disclose properties sold to their own executives.  
 Financial Secretary  John Tsang  in February announced higher
stamp duty on luxury properties and pledged to raise the supply
of land as it wants to reduce the risk of “a property bubble”
and keep housing affordable.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The 39 Conduit Road residential building  
                       
                         
                           Jerome Favre/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The 39 Conduit Road residential building stands in the Mid-Levels district of Hong Kong 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The 39 Conduit Road residential building stands in the Mid-Levels district of Hong Kong Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
