-- Tenet CEO Says Healthscope Bid Was `No-Win Situation'
-- David Olmos
-- 2010-06-15T20:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/tenet-ceo-says-invester-reaction-made-healthscope-bid-a-no-win-situation-.html

          
          
             Tenet Healthcare Corp. ’s scuttled
bid for Australia’s Healthscope Ltd. became a “no-win
situation” after information about the proposal was leaked and
investors became opposed, Chief Executive Officer  Trevor Fetter 
said.  
 Dallas-based Tenet withdrew its nonbinding offer for
Melbourne-based  Healthscope , Australia’s second-largest hospital
operator, on June 7 after investors criticized the deal.
Shareholders remain concerned about Tenet’s strategy in the wake
of the Healthscope proposal,  Adam Feinstein , a New York-based
analyst at Barclays Capital, said today in a note to investors.  
 “Reactions of our shareholders and analysts to our
expression of interest in the company was negative, to say the
least,” Fetter said today in remarks at the Goldman Sachs
Healthcare Conference in Los Angeles. “By June 7, I was
convinced this was a no-win situation.”  
 Tenet’s stock dropped 17 percent on June 1 after it
confirmed its interest in the Australian hospital operator.  
 “We continue to believe that there will be some ongoing
questions from Tenet’s involvement in the Healthscope
acquisition, but that the issue will fade over time,” Feinstein
wrote in the note.  
 Tenet’s  shares  rose 14 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $5.20 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 ‘Close the Gap’  
 Tenet is aiming to “close the gap” between its ratio of
 adjusted earnings  and that of the overall hospital industry,
Fetter said at the investors’ meeting. Tenet’s margin of
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
or Ebitda, was 10.9 percent in 2009, compared with 14.3 percent
for the overall industry, excluding Tenet, he said.  
 Tenet will seek to expand its outpatient clinic business
through acquisitions, continue to reduce costs and should
benefit from a continuing economic recovery, Fetter said.  
 “We believe these choices of margin expansion, in the
aggregate, are more than proficient to bring our margins to an
industry average level,” Fetter said.  
 How soon earnings will match the overall industry will
depend on the speed of the economic recovery, he said.  
 Tenet, the third-largest publicly traded U.S. hospital
chain, yesterday raised its 2010 earnings forecast to a range of
34 cents to 41 cents per share excluding certain items. The
company had previously forecast earnings of 24 cents to 32
cents.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        