-- Merkel's Coalition Plumbs Record Low in Allensbach Poll of Decision Makers
-- Patrick Donahue
-- 2010-06-15T12:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/merkel-s-coalition-plumbs-record-low-in-allensbach-poll-of-decision-makers.html

          
          
             Support for Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition plummeted to a record low in a poll of German
decision makers, with 92 percent saying they are disappointed in
her government.  
 Only 6 percent of 533 people who hold senior positions in
business and government said they are satisfied with the work of
Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc and her Free Democratic Party
governing partners, according to the Allensbach survey. The
twice-yearly survey was published in  Capital  magazine today.  
 Merkel, criticized for her handling of the European debt
crisis, her budget-cutting measures and infighting in her own
coalition, drew the lowest support of her chancellorship. Forty-
nine percent of respondents said she was a weak head of
government, an increase of 27 percent from December and the
lowest rating since she took office in November 2005.  
 “Breaking free of this is hardly possible in the short
term,” Allensbach director  Renate Koecher  said in a statement.
The poll was conducted May 20 to June 7.  
 Last month alone, Merkel suffered a regional electoral loss
that will cost her control of the upper house of parliament and
the surprise resignations of the country’s president and a
deputy leader of her party. The setbacks came as she steered
Germany through a debt crisis that’s sent the euro to a four-
year low against the dollar and forced Germany to foot almost 20
percent of a 750 billion-euro ($920 billion) European rescue
plan.  
 Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle , who heads Merkel’s Free
Democratic coalition partner and has resisted raising taxes to
narrow the budget deficit, fared worse than the chancellor in
the poll. Eleven percent of those surveyed said he was doing a
good job, while 8 percent said the same of Economy Minister
 Rainer Bruederle , another FDP minister.  
 Merkel scrapped her four-year-old “grand coalition” with
the Social Democrats after the CDU bloc and the FDP won a
majority in September elections. Seventy-seven percent of those
polled said they expect Merkel’s current coalition to remain in
power through the end of the current legislative period in 2013.  
 Among those surveyed by Allensbach were 79 executives
businesses of more than 20,000 employees, 21 state leaders or
governing ministers and 32 directors of federal or state
authorities.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        