-- Merrill Lynch Has `Soft Spot' for Euro-Area Assets on Outlook for Exports
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-06-15T08:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/merrill-lynch-has-soft-spot-for-euro-area-assets-on-export-prospects.html

          
          
             Merrill Lynch Wealth Management,
which oversees $2.2 trillion, is holding onto its euro-
denominated assets, betting this year’s 15 percent slide in the
common currency will boost exports.  
 Euro weakness is making stocks “cheap,” while the company
has a “soft spot” for bonds issued by countries with top
credit ratings, particularly the Netherlands, said  Johan Jooste ,
a portfolio strategist in London.  
 “We are not blind to the near-term risks,” Jooste said in
an interview. “The weakness of the euro will act as a monetary
stimulus for the euro area, especially the export sector. We
don’t feel right to be selling.”  
 European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
June 10 the region’s exports may recover more strongly than
previously expected. Concern Greece would struggle to pay its
loans sparked a crisis that sent the single currency to its
lowest level in four years last week. Moody’s Investors Service
cut Greece’s credit ranking four steps to junk late yesterday,
prompting a selloff in U.S. and European stock markets and bonds
of Europe’s more indebted countries today.  
 The euro fell 0.4 percent to $1.2177 as of 8:09 a.m. in
London. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 0.4 percent, the
first drop in five days.  
 Billionaire investor  George Soros  said on June 10 “we have
just entered Act II” of the sovereign-debt crisis, as nations’
fiscal-austerity measures may push the global economy back into
a recession.  
 ‘Deflation Shock’  
 “The market is already pricing in a deflation shock,”
Jooste said. “Our view is that the global economy will recover
at a moderate pace. We are not buying euro assets aggressively,
but we certainly make sure we are not underweight.”  
 Ten-year Dutch bonds yield 29 basis points over similar-
maturity German bunds, even as both nations have top credit
ratings with Standard & Poor’s. Dutch securities handed
investors a 10.7 percent return in the past 12 months compared
with a 10.5 percent gain from German debt, according to
Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes.  
 The fund prefers “high-quality” bonds in the euro region
over debt from so-called peripheral nations, said Jooste.  
 In making a four-step downgrade on Greece to Ba1 from A3,
Moody’s cited “substantial risks to economic growth from
austerity measures” tied to the 110 billion-euro ($134.5
billion) aid package from the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund.  
 Greek 10-year bond yields rose relative to those on German
bunds, increasing the difference by 35 basis points to 605 basis
points. The Spanish-German yield spread widened by six basis
points to 210 basis points.  
 “At the moment, the market is giving nobody the benefit of
the doubt,” said Jooste. “In any case, we aren’t a major
holder of Greek bonds. The immediate future is quite clearly
unclear.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        