-- Tesco Foresees British Sales Revival After Growth Stalls in First Quarter
-- Sarah Shannon
-- 2010-06-15T12:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/tesco-says-u-k-sales-barely-grow-as-inflation-eases-taxes-scare-buyers.html

          
          
             Tesco Plc , the U.K.’s largest
supermarket chain, said a lack of domestic revenue growth in the
first quarter won’t stop it meeting full-year forecasts.  
 Sales at U.K. stores open at least a year will still gain
3 percent, excluding gasoline and value-added tax, after rising
0.1 percent in the 13 weeks ended May 30, Finance Director
 Laurie McIlwee  told reporters on a conference call today. An
acceleration of food-price inflation and reduced concern among
consumers about the British budget and new coalition government
will help sales as the year progresses, he said.  
 U.K. food inflation slowed to 1.4 percent in the three
months through May 16, having reached 9 percent in February
2009, according to Kantar Worldpanel. That eroded sales growth
at Britain’s supermarkets, which are also contending with weaker
consumer spending. Tesco’s same-store sales growth slowed from
2.7 percent in the second half of the previous year.  
 “The U.K. performance was expected and should be the low
point of the year,”  Chris Hogbin , an analyst at Bernstein
Research said. “We also expect international performance to
accelerate.” Hogbin has an “outperform” rating on the shares.  
 Tesco rose 8.25 pence, or 2.1 percent, to 399.9 pence at
1:42 p.m. in London trading, reversing earlier losses. The  stock 
has declined 6.6 percent this year,  compared with  smaller
competitor J Sainsbury Plc’s 0.1 percent gain.  
 Tesco, which announced last week that  Phil Clarke  will
replace  Terry Leahy  as chief executive officer, foresees a
“steady consumer recovery” in the U.K., McIlwee said.  
 Finest Range  
 The first-quarter performance was “slightly off the
group’s growth rates, but still solid,” he said.  
 The gain in U.K. same-store sales missed the 0.4 percent
median  estimate  of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 The retailer singled out increased sales of its higher-
priced Finest range and non-food products as evidence of a
recovery. Sales of high-end televisions have more than doubled,
fuelled by soccer’s World Cup, McIlwee said.  
 International  same-store sales were little changed in the
quarter, with some declines in Asia offset by gains in Europe.  
 Business in Poland was affected as the country mourned the
death of its president in an air crash, McIlwee said. In
Thailand, sales were hurt by political unrest, though have
“bounced back well” in the two weeks since the country lifted
a curfew imposed on about one third of the population, he said.
Tesco has sold about 700,000 World Cup t-shirts in South Korea.  
 Market Share  
 Tesco is extending non-food space and rewarding customers
with double Clubcard loyalty points in an effort to fuel growth,
and held its 30.6 percent share of the U.K. grocery market in
the three months through May 16, according to Kantar data.  
 Total sales rose 8.2 percent in the first quarter, or 6.9
percent excluding gasoline.  
 “This is a solid statement and ought to reassure,”
 Gillian Hilditch , an analyst at JPMorgan Cazenove, said in a
report. She has a “neutral” recommendation on the stock.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        