-- Tesco U.K. Same-Store Sales Barely Grow on Lower Inflation, Weak Spending
-- Sarah Shannon
-- 2010-06-15T06:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/tesco-says-u-k-same-store-sales-rose-0-1-in-13-weeks-excluding-gas-vat.html

          
          
             Tesco Plc , the U.K.’s largest
supermarket chain, said domestic revenue barely grew in the
first quarter as inflation eased and shoppers balked at the
prospect of higher taxes.  
 Sales at U.K. stores open at least a year rose 0.1 percent,
excluding gasoline and value-added tax, in the 13 weeks ended
May 30, the Cheshunt, England-based retailer said  today . That
was less than the 2.7 percent growth the company reported for
the second half of the previous year and missed the 0.4 percent
median estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 U.K. food price inflation slumped to 1.4 percent in the
three months through May 16, having reached 9 percent in
February 2009, according to Kantar Worldpanel. That’s eroded
sales growth at Britain’s supermarkets, which also are having to
contend with weaker consumer spending. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said last week that the budget squeeze will come to
“affect every single person in our country.”  
 “We are concerned on three fronts: poor industry same-
store sales, weak consumer spending and a doubling of capacity
additions this year,”  Dave McCarthy , an analyst at Evolution
Securities in London, said in a report before the release.
“Tesco’s answer to slowing sales seems to be to open even more
space, but this is likely to lead to an accelerating fall in
returns.” McCarthy has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  
 New Chief  
 Tesco announced last week that  Phil Clarke  will replace
 Terry Leahy  as chief executive officer in March. The retailer is
extending non-food space and rewarding customers with double
Clubcard loyalty points in an effort to boost growth, and held
its 30.6 percent share of the U.K. grocery market in the three
months through May 16, according to Kantar data.  
 Total sales rose 8.2 percent in the first quarter, or 6.9
percent excluding gasoline, driven by store openings in Asia.
 International  same-store sales were little changed in the
quarter, with some declines in Asia offset by gains in Europe.  
 Tesco fell 2.5 pence, or 0.7 percent, to 391.65 pence in
London trading yesterday. The stock has declined 8.5 percent
this year, compared with smaller competitor J Sainsbury Plc’s
1.2 percent drop.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        