-- Romanian Leu Weakens to One-Month Low Before Parliament No-Confidence Vote
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-06-15T11:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/leu-weakens-on-concern-government-will-struggle-to-win-no-confidence-vote.html

          
          
             The leu retreated to its weakest
level in more than a month on concern Romanian Prime Minister
 Emil Boc  may struggle to push through spending cuts as he faces
a no-confidence vote in parliament today.  
 The leu depreciated as much as 0.4 percent to 4.2437 per
euro, the weakest intraday level since May 10. It traded down
0.1 percent at 4.2324 as of 1:54 p.m. in Bucharest. Credit
default swaps on Romanian government debt rose 2 basis points to
360.5 basis points, according to CMA DataVision.  
 The parliament began discussing a no-confidence motion
today over budget-cutting measures, which include reducing
public wages by 25 percent and pensions and jobless benefits by
15 percent. Romania is joining governments from Spain to Germany
in slashing spending after the European Union crafted a 750
billion-euro ($919 billion) rescue package to prevent sovereign
defaults from within the bloc and save the euro.  
 Boc is caught between placating voters and reassuring the
International Monetary Fund and investors. The EU’s second-
poorest member is relying on a 20 billion-euro loan from the
Washington-based fund and the EU to resurrect its economy, mired
in the worst recession in 60 years, according to Boc. The
economy shrank 2.6 percent in the first quarter and may contract
0.5 percent this year, the IMF predicts.  
 “The situation is starting to look precarious,”  Nigel Rendell , a senior emerging-market strategist at RBC Capital in
London, said by phone. “Even if the vote goes through, the
measures proposed by the government look rather harsh and they
are facing widespread protests. There seems to be doubts whether
the plan is feasible.”  
 State worker unions are staging daily protests in front of
the parliament as well as city halls across the country to urge
lawmakers to vote against the government.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        