-- European Stocks Advance For Fifth Day; BSkyB Shares Soar on News Corp. Bid
-- Alexis Xydias
-- 2010-06-15T16:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/european-index-futures-drop-bskyb-may-rally-u-s-futures-little-changed.html

          
          
             European  stocks advanced for a fifth
day, the longest winning streak in three months, as News Corp.
offered to buy British Sky Broadcasting Plc, offsetting a plunge
in German investor confidence and a rating downgrade for Greece.  
 BSkyB , the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV provider, led a rally
among media stocks, surging 17 percent after  Rupert Murdoch ’s
News Corp. offered to buy the rest of the company for 7.8
billion pounds ($11.5 billion). Societe Generale SA climbed 3.9
percent after targeting 6 billion euros ($7.3 billion) of profit
in 2012. UBS AG rallied 2 percent after Swiss lawmakers backed a
government treaty with the U.S. over suspected tax evasion. BP
Plc closed at the lowest level since October 2008.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 0.7 percent to 254.28,
erasing its loss for the year. The benchmark gauge has rebounded
9.6 percent from its 2010 low on May 25 after concern about the
impact of Europe’s sovereign debt crisis pushed the benchmark to
its cheapest level relative to earnings in more than a year.  
 “The state of the economy is a massive consideration as to
whether you look at spending money or whether for the time being
you are going to play safe,” said  Keith Bowman , an analyst at
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc in London. “BSkyB may be a bit more of
a special situation given the relationship with Murdoch, but
should we see a noticeable pick-up in mergers and acquisitions
it would suggest an improvement in confidence.”  
 National benchmark indexes advanced in 16 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100  rose 0.3 percent,
Germany’s DAX climbed 0.8 percent and France’s CAC 40 increased
1 percent.  
 German Confidence  
 German investor confidence plunged in June on concern that
the sovereign debt crisis will undermine export prospects and
crimp growth in Europe’s largest economy.  
 The  ZEW  said today its index of investor and analyst
expectations, which aims to predict developments six months
ahead, slumped to 28.7 from 45.8 in May. Economists forecast a
drop to 42, according to the median of 35 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  
 Greece’s credit rating was cut to non-investment grade, or
junk, by Moody’s Investors Service yesterday. The downgrade
threatens to further undermine demand for the debt-strapped
nation’s assets as it struggles to rein in its budget deficit.  
 Substantial Risks  
 In making the four-step downgrade to Ba1 from A3, Moody’s
cited “substantial” risks to economic growth from the
austerity measures tied to a 110 billion-euro ($134.5 billion)
aid package from the European Union and the International
Monetary Fund. The lower rating “incorporates a greater,
albeit, low risk of default,” Moody’s said in a statement after
the close of equity markets yesterday in London. The outlook is
stable, it said.  
 “For the economies of southern Europe, fiscal contraction
will raise the distinct possibility of a double-dip recession,”
Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd. Chairman  Stephen Roach  said today in a
Bloomberg Television interview from Hong Kong. Europe as a whole
“will be able to avoid an outright contraction but it will be
weak, anemic growth.”  
 Greek government bonds fell, and the  Athens Stock Exchange
General Index  lost 0.7 percent, snapping five straight gains.  
 Debt levels in Spain and Portugal may “snowball” in
coming years and additional budget cuts are needed to meet
deficit targets announced just a month ago, according to a draft
European Commission document.  
 U.K. Inflation  
 In the U.K., a house-price gauge climbed in May to the
highest level in four months as demand from homebuyers matched
rising supply, the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors
said.  
 U.K.  inflation  slowed in May for the first time in three
months as lower costs of items from food to transport eased
price pressures in the economy. Consumer prices rose 3.4 percent
from a year earlier, compared with 3.7 percent in April, the
Office for National Statistics said today in London. Economists
predicted 3.5 percent, according to the median of 30 forecasts
in a Bloomberg News survey. Inflation has now exceeded the
government’s 3 percent upper limit for three months.  
  BSkyB  surged 17 percent to 700 pence. The company rejected
News Corp.’s offer of 700 pence a share made today and said it
would be prepared to support a bid of more than 800 pence a
share. News Corp., owner of the Fox television network, holds a
39 percent stake. Its offer values the rest of BSkyB at 7.8
billion pounds ($11.5 billion).  
 Media Stocks  
 ITV Plc, the U.K.’s biggest commercial broadcaster, gained
3.5 percent to 58.7 pence.  Gestevision Telecinco SA , Spain’s
largest commercial television station, rallied 5.7 percent to
8.57 euros. The Stoxx 600 Media Supersector Index climbed 2.6
percent, the biggest gain among 19 industry groups.  
 Societe Generale gained 3.9 percent to 36.40 euros.
France’s second-biggest bank by market value said it’s aiming
for profit of about 6 billion euros ($7.3 billion) in 2012,
driven by growth at the corporate and investment bank and in
Russia.  
 UBS  gained 2 percent to 15.51 francs. Swiss lawmakers today
backed the treaty with the U.S. over suspected tax evasion and
asked for the possibility to put the proposal to a nationwide
vote.  
 BP  slipped 3.8 percent to 342 pence, its lowest level since
2008 after adjusting for dividend payments. The company’s credit
rating was cut to two levels above non-investment grade, or
junk, by Fitch Ratings on concern over the potential cost of
cleaning up its Gulf of Mexico spill and meeting future
liabilities.  
 Inmarsat  lost 5.1 percent to 779.5 pence. BofA Merrill
Lynch Global Research cut the shares to “underperform” from
“neutral,” citing the risk the company may ask shareholders
for money to fund the acquisition of new satellites.  
 Tesco Sales  
 Tesco Plc rose 0.7 percent to 394.5. The biggest U.K.
retailer said same-store sales rose 0.1 percent in the 13 weeks
through May 30, less than the 0.4 percent forecast by six
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  
 “The U.K. performance is slightly off the group’s growth
rates, but still solid,” Finance Director  Laurie McIlwee  said
on a call to journalists. Tesco isn’t changing its full-year
forecast for 3 percent growth in U.K. same-store sales, he said.  
 Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG  tumbled 8.4 percent to 7.98
euros after saying its full-year loss narrowed to 229 million
euros from a loss of 249 million euros. The maker of printing
presses also plans a capital increase to raise about 420 million
euros.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Murdoch's News corp offer to BSkyB rejected  
                       
                         
                           Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg 
                         
                         BSkyB independent directors said they may be prepared to accept a higher offer from Murdoch's News Corp. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     BSkyB independent directors said they may be prepared to accept a higher offer from Murdoch's News Corp. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
