-- European Exports Decline, Adding to Signs of Region's Recovery Is Slowing
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-06-15T09:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/european-exports-decline-adding-to-signs-of-region-s-recovery-is-slowing.html

          
          
             European exports declined in April,
adding to signs a euro-region recovery may be losing steam.  
 Exports from the economy of the 16 nations using the euro
fell a seasonally adjusted 2.4 percent from March, when they
rose 9.8 percent, the European Union’s  statistics office  in
Luxembourg said today. The  trade surplus  was 1.4 billion euros
($1.7 billion) in April and imports dropped 3.5 percent from
March. Euro-area  payrolls  were unchanged in the first quarter
from the previous three months, when they decreased 0.2 percent,
a separate report showed.  
 Europe’s debt crisis has undermined investor confidence and
forced governments to step up spending cuts, clouding the
economic outlook. German investor confidence plunged in June on
concern the turmoil will undermine exports and crimp growth in
the region’s biggest economy.  
 The Mannheim, Germany-based  ZEW Center for European
Economic Research  said today that its index of investor and
analyst  expectations  slumped to 28.7 this month from 45.8 in
May. Economists had projected a drop to 42, according to the
median of 35 estimates in a  Bloomberg survey .  
 The euro extended its decline against the dollar after the
data, trading at $1.2188 at 10:08 a.m. in London, down 0.3
percent on the day. The 16-country currency has shed 15 percent
against the dollar this year, a drop that has made European
goods more competitive abroad.  
 Weaker Euro  
 Manufacturers across Europe have boosted output as a weaker
euro and reviving global economic growth bolster export orders.
 Continental AG , Europe’s second-largest car-parts maker, on June
10 raised its full-year sales forecast.  
 The global economy will expand 4.6 percent this year and
4.5 percent in 2011, the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development said. By comparison, the euro region is seen
growing 2.1 percent this year, while China may expand more than
11 percent, according to the Paris-based group.  
 Euro-area exports to the U.S., the region’s second-biggest
trading partner, rose 6 percent in the year’s first three
months, today’s report showed. Shipments to the U.K., the
largest market for euro-area goods, increased 9 percent, while
exports to China jumped 48 percent. The detailed country data
are published with a one-month lag.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        