-- Euro Advances Against Dollar for Second Day as Equity Markets Resume Rally
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-06-15T14:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/euro-advances-versus-dollar-as-stock-market-gains-reduce-demand-for-refuge.html

          
          
             The euro rose for a second day
against the dollar as gains in global stock markets spurred
demand for riskier assets and prompted traders to end bets that
the currency would decline.  
 The 16-nation currency erased an earlier drop as the  MSCI
World Index  increased 0.7 percent for its sixth consecutive
gain, the longest winning streak since October. The dollar
remained lower against the yen even as a report showed
manufacturing in the New York region expanded in June. Canada’s
currency gained amid speculation the nation’s central bank will
raise interest rates faster than other countries.  
 “We had some good stock-market performance around the
globe and it’s just spurring more risk appetite in the market,”
said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. in New York.  
 The euro appreciated 0.7 percent to $1.2303 at 10:46 a.m.
in New York, from $1.2221 yesterday. It earlier fell as much as
0.4 percent to $1.2168. The currency traded at 112.15 yen after
climbing yesterday to 112.87, the highest since June 4. The yen
strengthened 0.4 percent to 91.18 per dollar, from 91.58.  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.4 percent. Purchases of
German equities were almost five times the daily average this
week, according to BNY Mellon data of its clients’ orders. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  increased 1 percent.  
 ‘They’re Getting Out’  
 “There’s still a lot of money on the sidelines,” said
 Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for the foreign-exchange
group in Boston at BNY Mellon, the world’s largest custodial
bank, with more than $20 trillion in assets under
administration. “ We’re seeing a lot of fresh money going into
the European equity markets, which is supportive for the euro.”  
 The  difference  in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those betting on a gain was near a record on June 8, according
to the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  
 Futures positions, when they reach an extreme, are
sometimes viewed as a contrarian indicator because traders often
seek to cut positions when momentum in a currency shifts.  
 “We could see a pretty good short squeeze,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market analyst at Interactive Brokers Group
LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut. “The sky is the limit on a
squeeze when you have this amount of short positioning. People
are getting out and not establishing fresh shorts. They’re
getting out and staying out.”  A short is a bet the price of an
asset will decline.  
 Alternative Source  
 The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index rose to 19.6, an 11th consecutive month of growth and in
line with the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in
the so-called Empire State Index that covers New York, northern
New Jersey and southern Connecticut.  
 A drop in the euro to near its lowest level in four years
means Canadian dollars and Swiss francs are accounting for
record shares of global bond sales as investors flee turmoil in
Europe’s government debt market.  
 General Electric Co.’s financing arm has led C$5.66 billion
($5.5 billion) of bond sales this month, 10.5 percent of total
global issuance and double the currency’s share in May,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance in
Switzerland’s currency jumped to 3.08 billion francs ($2.7
billion), or 5.1 percent of sales, from 1 percent the previous
month, as companies including Bayerische Motoren Werke AG of
Munich tapped the market.  
 Canada Dollar  
 Borrowers are seeking alternative funding sources to avoid
markets directly affected by collapsing confidence in the euro
region’s ability to contain soaring deficits. Bond offerings in
all currencies other than U.S. dollars and euros totaled $15
billion, or a record 29 percent of the $51.2 billion issued,
double the proportion of a year ago, Bloomberg data show.  
 Canada’s currency, known as the loonie, gained 0.4 percent
to C$1.0297, from C$1.0339. The loonie has advanced 10.5 percent
this year, the best performance among its developed-world
counterparts according to Bloomberg Correlation Weighted
Indices, as Europe’s debt crisis drove investors toward
currencies backed by relatively strong balance sheets.  
 Canada is poised to become the first Group of Seven economy
to reach pre-recession levels of output, according to Bloomberg
surveys. The Bank of Canada raised interest rates on June 1, the
first G-7 bank to do so since July 2008.  
 The euro weakened earlier versus the dollar and yen as a
report showed Germany’s investor confidence dropped in June by
the most in 20 months.  
 The Mannheim-based ZEW Center for European Economic
Research said today its index of investor and analyst
expectations, which aims to predict developments six months
ahead, slumped to 28.7 from 45.8 in May. That’s the biggest
decline since October 2008, following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Levisohn  in New York at 
 blevisohn@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        