-- Euro Falls as Spain Aid Report Turns Focus to Debt Crisis
-- Bo Nielsen
-- 2010-06-16T12:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/euro-advances-against-the-dollar-as-gains-in-stocks-spur-demand-for-risk.html

          
          
             The euro dropped for the first time
in three days against the dollar on speculation Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis is worsening in Spain.  
 The shared currency also fell against the yen after El
Economista reported the International Monetary Fund, the
European Union and the U.S. Treasury are putting together a
credit line of as much as 250 billion euros ($307 billion) for
Spain. The report was denied by the EU and the Iberian nation’s
government. The pound traded at almost a 19-month high versus
the euro on lower-than-forecast unemployment in the U.K.  
 “Focus is back on Spain after a couple of days of news
about global growth,” said  Arne Lohmann Rasmussen , chief
currency analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “Most of the
euro’s recent gains came from short covering, and the move up is
petering out,” he said, referring to investors buying back
euros to unwind bets that the currency will fall.  
 The  euro  dropped 0.5 percent to $1.2269 at 8:05 a.m. in New
York, from $1.2332 yesterday, in the biggest daily decline since
June 4 based on closing prices. The euro slid 0.7 percent to
112.01 yen, from 112.78. The dollar dropped 0.2 percent to 91.28
yen, from 91.46.  
 The 16-nation currency also declined after it failed to
stay above $1.235, a level important to maintaining the
currency’s recent upward momentum, according to BNP Paribas SA.  
 “The rebound we’ve seen in the euro is purely a
correction,” said  Ian Stannard , an analyst in London at BNP.
“We’ll soon head lower again.”  
 Outlook for Euro  
 Danske Bank’s Rasmussen predicted the euro will sink to
$1.15 in three months.  
 The yield premium investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
government bonds instead of German bunds rose to a euro-era
record of 2.18 percentage points after the report of IMF aid.  
 The euro earlier increased as much as 0.2 percent to
$1.2353 after U.S. stocks gained yesterday and results from debt
auctions in Spain and Ireland renewed optimism that indebted
nations can still tap markets for funding.  
 September futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell
0.5 percent today, indicating the market will open lower.  
 Fluctuation in the dollar and the euro prompted Russia to
say it may add the Australian and  Canadian dollars  to its
international reserves for the first time.  
 “Adding the Australian dollar is being discussed,”  Alexei Ulyukayev , the central bank’s first deputy chairman, said in an
interview at an event hosted by Bloomberg LP in Moscow
yesterday. “There are pros and cons. We have added the Canadian
dollar but haven’t yet begun operations” with the currency,
according to Ulyukyaev.  
 Russia’s Reserves  
 U.S. dollars account for 47 percent of Russia’s reserves,
while euros make up 41 percent, pounds 10 percent and yen 2
percent, Ulyukyaev said in November. The central bank has
reduced dollars from 50 percent in 2006, when euros accounted
for 40 percent and the remaining 10 percent was in yen and
pounds.  
 President  Dmitry Medvedev  suggested last year that Russia
would reduce its use of the dollar as a reserve currency.
Russia’s international reserves, the world’s third-biggest,
reached $458.2 billion on June 4.  
 Sterling appreciated 0.3 percent to 83.02 pence per euro
after reports showed the U.K.’s unemployment fell in the quarter
through April and jobless benefits dropped last month by more
than economists forecast.  
 ‘Steady Pace’  
 “Current data suggest that the U.K. economy is still
recovering at a steady pace,”  Geoffrey Yu , a London-based
strategist at UBS AG, wrote in the research note today.
“However, structural weakness remain, and the effects of fiscal
tightening are yet to be felt.”  
 Unemployment measured by International Labour Organization
methods slipped to 2.472 million people from 2.51 million in the
first quarter, the Office for National Statistics said today in
London. The number of people claiming jobless benefits dropped
30,900, exceeding the median forecast of 25 economists for a
decline of 20,000.  
 The pound touched 82.11 pence per euro on June 11, the
strongest level in 19 months.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bo Nielsen  in Copenhagen at 
 bnielsen4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 8 (Bloomberg) -- Ray Attrill, global research director at Forecast Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Mark Barton about the euro reaching a four year low against the dollar.
     Attrill, speaking in Sydney, also discusses Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan's policy on the yen. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
