-- Ex-Royal Bank Chief Goodwin Said to Face Questioning by Finance Regulator
-- Andrew MacAskill
-- 2010-06-15T12:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/ex-royal-bank-chief-goodwin-said-to-face-questioning-by-finance-regulator.html

          
          
             Fred Goodwin , the former chief
executive officer of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , will be
questioned by the U.K.’s financial regulator, which has at least
three open investigations into the bank, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  
 The interviews, which may be delayed, were scheduled to
take place as early as today, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the talks are private. Goodwin resigned in
2008 after the U.K. injected 20 billion pounds ($29.5 billion)
of taxpayer money into the lender to prevent its collapse.  
 The U.K. Financial Services Authority  is probing RBS’s
takeover of parts of ABN Amro Group NV in 2007, a 2008 rights
offering and handling of customer complaints.  Johnny Cameron ,
the former chairman of RBS’s investment bank, agreed last month
to never take a senior management role at a financial company to
resolve an FSA investigation into his actions.  
 “The FSA has got to find some wrongdoing, and they can do
that if they think Sir Fred breached the principles of senior
management,” said  Simon Morris , a lawyer at CMS Cameron McKenna
in London, of Goodwin. “They could ban him, they could take a
fine against him, and it would be an exceedingly high-profile
scalp, more so than Johnny Cameron.”  
 RBS posted the biggest loss in corporate history in 2008
and required the world’s biggest banking bailout at 45.5 billion
pounds. The FSA first said it would examine senior managers of
collapsed banks, or those that had accepted government money, in
March 2009.  
 ‘Supervisory Investigations’  
 “The FSA is conducting several extensive supervisory
investigations of the major U.K. banks that ‘failed’ during the
crisis and required full or partial taxpayer bailout support,”
the regulator said in its  annual report  last week. “The work is
still ongoing.”  
 Spokesmen for the FSA and RBS declined to comment. Goodwin
didn’t immediately respond to a phone message left at his office
in Edinburgh. The Times of London reported the story earlier
today.  
 Cameron didn’t admit guilt in the probe of RBS’s systems
and controls.  
 Two former executives of Northern Rock Plc, which was
nationalized in February 2008, were banned by the regulator in
April for hiding the number of impaired mortgages from the
bank’s board and the market.  
 Goodwin led an expansion of RBS into more than 54 countries
by making more than $100 billion of acquisitions. He completed
the purchase of ABN Amro with partners  Banco Santander SA  of
Spain and Belgium’s Fortis Bank, after global money markets
froze in 2007. The acquisition saddled RBS with bad debt,
depleted its cash reserves and led to its bailout.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        