-- Exxon Distances Itself From BP's `Dramatic Departure' in Gulf
-- Joe Carroll
-- 2010-06-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/exxon-distances-itself-from-bp-s-dramatic-departure-in-gulf-oil-disaster.html

          
          
             Federal investigators must determine
if BP Plc took risks “beyond industry norms” with the Gulf of
Mexico well that exploded and caused the worst U.S. oil spill,
 Exxon Mobil Corp.  Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  said.  
 The April 20 disaster that killed 11 workers and sank
 Transocean Ltd. ’s Deepwater Horizon drilling rig “represents a
dramatic departure” from the track record of deep-water oil
explorers, Tillerson said in remarks prepared for a  House Energy
and Commerce  Committee panel hearing today.  
 Something went wrong at the BP project about 5,000 feet
(1,524 meters) below the sea surface that hasn’t happened at the
14,000 other deep-water wells drilled without incident worldwide,
Tillerson said. The catastrophe has damaged livelihoods and
coastal environments and will cause loss of public trust in the
oil industry, he said.  
 “We need to know if the levels of risk taken went beyond
industry norms,” said Tillerson, who oversees a company that
pumps more oil than every member of OPEC except Saudi Arabia,
Iran and Iraq.  
 Exxon,  based in Irving, Texas, has drilled 262 deep-water
wells in the past decade, 35 of which were in the Gulf of Mexico,
he said. Proper well design, workforce training, redundant
safety systems and regular maintenance help mitigate the risks
involved in drilling miles below sea level, Tillerson said in
the remarks.  
 ‘Questionable Decisions’  
 BP, the biggest oil producer in the Gulf of Mexico, made
five “questionable decisions” aimed at cutting costs and
speeding completion of an overdue project in the days and weeks
preceding the disaster, U.S. Representatives  Henry Waxman  of
California and  Bart Stupak  of Michigan wrote in a letter to BP
CEO  Tony Hayward  that was released yesterday.  
 Hayward is scheduled to testify before U.S. lawmakers on
June 17.  David Nicholas , a BP spokesman, said in an e-mail it
would be inappropriate to comment ahead of Hayward’s testimony.  
 Exxon overhauled its safety procedures after the 1989
Valdez tanker spill off the Alaskan coast, Tillerson said in his
remarks. The Valdez incident, which Tillerson described as “the
low point’ in Exxon’s history, was one of the worst U.S. spills
before the failure of BP’s Macondo well.  
 John Watson , chief executive officer at  Chevron Corp. , and
 ConocoPhillips  CEO  James Mulva  are scheduled to testify at
today’s hearing in Washington.  Lamar McKay  and  Marvin Odum , the
presidents of the U.S. units of BP and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ,
respectively, have also accepted invitations.  
 Increased Scrutiny  
 Shell follows well-drilling safety standards that lawmakers
have said were sidestepped by BP, Odum said in a May 14 letter
to  Elizabeth Birnbaum , former director of the U.S. Minerals
Management Service, which oversees the offshore drilling
industry. Shell’s plans to explore for oil and natural gas off
Alaska’s coast face increased scrutiny as a result of the Gulf
oil spill.  
 “Shell has design standards and practices that have
enabled us to successfully and safely drill many deep-water and
shallow-water wells worldwide,” Odum said in the letter to
Birnbaum. “Shell will rigorously apply an appropriate similar
level of standards in all well operations on the Alaska” outer
continental shelf.  
 More than 30 deep-water rigs have been ordered to stop
drilling in the Gulf of Mexico for at least six months while
federal officials conduct a review of offshore safety practices.
The moratorium has forced Exxon, Shell and other major oil
companies to suspend their deepwater exploration plans in the
Gulf.  
 Rigs Leaving  
 The Gulf accounts for  30 percent  of U.S. oil production,
according to the Energy Information Administration.  
 When the moratorium is lifted and federal regulators allow
deep-water oil exploration to resume, there may be few rigs
remaining in the Gulf of Mexico to do the work, said
 Gianna Bern , president of Brookshire Advisory & Research Inc.
in Flossmoor, Illinois, which advises oil companies on strategy
and risk management.  
 Drilling vessels are starting to leave the Gulf to take up
assignments in the South China Sea and offshore Indonesia, said
Bern, a former BP crude trader. Those vessels won’t be able to
return to U.S. waters for a year or longer, she said.  
 “This is a challenging time for everyone in the industry
because there’s some level of guilt by association going on,”
Bern said. “With oil continuing to spew out in the Gulf of
Mexico, the whole industry is going to be set back.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Washington at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Exxon Mobil Chairman and CEO Rex Tillerson speaks at a press conference following the company's annual shareholder meeting in Dallas. Photographer: Jason Janik/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
