-- Exxon, Others Slammed for `Carbon-Copy' Oil-Spill Plans
-- Joe Carroll
-- 2010-06-15T16:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/exxon-chevron-ceos-criticized-by-lawmakers-over-oil-drilling-safety-plans.html

          
          
             Exxon Mobil Corp. , ConocoPhillips,
Chevron Corp. and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  are as ill-prepared as
 BP Plc  to halt and clean up an offshore oil spill because they
all use “carbon copy” disaster plans, lawmakers said.  
 Eight weeks after a drilling rig leased by BP exploded in
the Gulf of Mexico, killing 11 workers and triggering the worst
spill in U.S. history, executives from the companies sought at a
House Energy Committee hearing to distance themselves from BP’s
practices that lawmakers said put profits before safety.  
 Lawmakers faulted the four executives for disaster-response
plans that would halt oil leaks at the sea floor using the same
techniques that failed for BP at its Macondo well. The same firm
wrote the plans and included references to making sure crude
doesn’t injure walruses, which don’t live in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 “The oil company response plans are great for public
relations but these plans are virtually worthless in the event
of a spill,” said Representative  Bart T. Stupak , a Michigan
Democrat. “It could be said that BP is the one bad apple in the
bunch, but unfortunately, they appear to have plenty of
company.”  
 Energy companies, rig operators and lawmakers in oil-
producing states have urged the Obama administration to lift or
shorten a six-month moratorium on deepwater exploration that has
idled more than two dozen drilling vessels and threatens
thousands of jobs. Lawmakers said today they’re not convinced
the industry takes safety seriously.  
 ‘Magic Button’  
 “You can’t have a contingency plan that says cross your
fingers and hope the blowout preventer works,” said
Representative  Joe Barton  of Texas, the committee’s senior
Republican. “They pushed the magic button on the BP rig and it
didn’t work.”  
 Exxon wouldn’t have used the well design, cement mixture or
testing procedures BP employed at the Macondo well, CEO  Rex Tillerson  told lawmakers today. The BP project faced “a lot of
indications of problems” in the weeks before the explosion,
Tillerson said. Shell’s U.S. president,  Marvin Odum , and Chevron
CEO  John Watson  said they wouldn’t have drilled the well in the
same manner as BP.  
 “Our internal review confirmed what our regular audits
have told us,” Watson told the committee. “Chevron’s drilling
and control practices for deepwater wells are safe and
environmentally sound.”  
 ‘Deliberate Deception’  
 The CEOs testified a day after the committee released
internal BP documents that lawmakers said showed the company put
cost concerns ahead of safety in the days leading up to April
20. BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  is to appear before
a subcommittee June 17, his first congressional testimony since
the well exploded.  
 In a preview of questions Hayward may face, Markey asked
 Lamar McKay , president of BP America Inc., today why BP’s
initial estimates of the spill’s flow rate turned out to be
several times less than the actual leak. The initial estimates
reflected either a “deliberate deception or gross
incompetence,” Markey said.  
 “We are sorry for everything the Gulf coast is going
through,” McKay said.  
 BP, the biggest Gulf of Mexico oil producer, made five
“questionable decisions” aimed at cutting costs and speeding
completion of an overdue project before the disaster, Democratic
Representatives  Henry Waxman  of California and  Stupak  wrote in a
letter to Hayward released yesterday.  
 Walruses in Plans  
 Markey pressed the CEOs on why their safety plans for a
Gulf spill described the effects on walruses. Two of the
companies also incorporated contact information for a Florida
marine researcher who died in 2005, Markey said.  
 “The plan needs to be updated more frequently,”
ConocoPhillips CEO  James Mulva  said. “Obviously, it is
embarrassing.”  
 “It’s unfortunate that walruses were included, and it’s an
embarrassment,” Tillerson said.  
 President  Barack Obama  plans to speak to the nation tonight
on the spill, and the administration is demanding that BP set up
an escrow account for damage claims. BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  has been called to the White House tomorrow.  
 Industry groups oppose the six-month ban, which Obama put
in place to give a presidential commission time to probe the
spill. Pressed by Louisiana Democratic Senator  Mary Landrieu ,
who said her state could lose 330,000 jobs from the moratorium,
Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  last week said the ban may be
shortened.  
 Lost Jobs, Wages  
 “We acknowledge the reasons for the president’s decision
to pause deepwater drilling,” Shell’s Odum said in his prepared
remarks. “But it is not without consequence: thousands of lost
jobs, and billions in lost wages and spending. And not only on
the Gulf Coast, but also in places like Alaska.”  
 Seventeen House members from Gulf coast states including
Barton and Representative  Ted Poe , a Texas Republican, today
called on Obama to end the drilling ban. The group will meet
Salazar tomorrow to discuss the impact of the moratorium.  
 “Many offshore drilling companies and suppliers will not be
able to survive this six-month period and will either go out of
business or move their employees and assets abroad,” the group
said in a statement. An extended suspension may cost more than
20,000 jobs in Gulf region, according to a statement.  
 Exxon’s Rigs Moving  
 Exxon,  based in Irving, Texas, has drilled 262 deep-water
wells in the past decade, 35 of which were in the Gulf,
Tillerson said. The company will send deepwater drilling rigs to
other parts of the world during the administration’s moratorium,
he said.  
 “We will redirect our human resources, the technical
talent, to other parts of the world where we’re allowed to work,
and we will redirect the equipment elsewhere,” Tillerson said.
“This stuff is too expensive to let them sit around.”  
 When the moratorium is lifted and federal regulators allow
deepwater drilling to resume, there may be few rigs available
for the work, said  Gianna Bern , president of Brookshire Advisory
& Research Inc. in Flossmoor, Illinois, which advises oil
companies on strategy and risk management.  
 Drilling vessels are steaming out of the Gulf for
assignments in the South China Sea and off the Indonesia coast,
said Bern, a former BP crude trader. Those vessels won’t be able
to return to U.S. waters for a year or longer, she said.  
 “The moratorium will likely draw drilling rigs away from
the Gulf of Mexico to overseas basins, further delaying
development and negatively affecting crucial U.S. jobs that
support these operations,” Watson said. “Any extension of the
moratorium will only exacerbate the economic consequences.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in Washington at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Washington at
   jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lamar McKay, chairman and president of BP America Inc., arrives for a  House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Representative Edolphus Towns, a Democrat from New York and chairman of the House Oversight Committee, talks about BP Plc's oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and the outlook for offshore drilling and industry regulation.
     Towns talks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Gianna Bern, president of Brookshire Advisory & Research, talks about the impact the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico will have on U.S. offshore drilling and today's congressional testimony by oil industry executives.
     Bern talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
