-- MFC to Miss 43% Growth Target for Assets on Thai Unrest, Europe's Crisis
-- Anuchit Nguyen
-- 2010-06-15T05:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/mfc-to-miss-43-growth-target-for-assets-on-thai-unrest-europe-s-crisis.html

          
          
             MFC Asset Management Pcl , Thailand’s
only publicly traded mutual fund company, will miss a target to
increase its assets by 43 percent this year because of domestic
political unrest and the European debt crisis.  
 MFC will fall short of its plan to expand assets under
management to about 300 billion baht ($9.24 billion) this year,
President  Pichit Akrathit  said, declining to give a new target.
The company’s assets rose to about 240 billion baht this month,
from 210 billion baht at the end of 2009, he said.  
 “Going into this year we were very upbeat about asset
growth on optimism of a vibrant global economic recovery,”
Pichit said in an interview today. “It turns out the target
will be impossible, because domestic politics and the European
debt crisis have caused investors to be more risk averse.”  
 Thailand’s government has warned that  economic  growth will
slow after clashes between soldiers and protesters in April and
May sparked the country’s deadliest political unrest in 18 years.
 Overseas investors  sold a record amount of Thai stocks last
month on concern the unrest may worsen, and as the European debt
crisis caused declines in global equity markets.  
 Moody’s Investors Service yesterday cut Greece’s credit
rating to non-investment grade as the country struggles to rein
in its budget deficit.  
 State-controlled  MFC sells mutual funds to individuals and
companies that invest in overseas and domestic equities, bonds,
oil, gold and properties, according to its  website . MFC is
Thailand’s third-biggest mutual fund company.  
 Foreigners Sell Stocks  
 Overseas investors may shun Thai stocks until the country’s
political divisions are resolved through elections, Pichit said.  
 Overseas investors  sold a net 58.7 billion baht of Thai
equities in May, the biggest monthly total based on exchange
data going back to 1999. Before the sell-off, they bought a net
58.9 billion baht in 31 straight sessions between February and
April. Net sales by foreign investors so far this month have
reached 3.69 billion baht, according to the exchange.  
 The  SET Index  has gained 6.2 percent this year, the second-
best performer among Asia’s 10 biggest stock markets, following
a 63 percent rally last year.  
 “The pictures of street fighting and buildings ablaze in
Bangkok still scare off overseas investors,” Pichit said. “The
new election will probably be the only way to achieve the
political solution that will help attract them back.”  
 Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva on June 10 called on the
Thai public to join a reconciliation process, vowing to bridge
the political divide, without providing details. The prime
minister has kept a state of emergency in a third of the country
since April, giving the government increased powers to detain
protest leaders, censor media outlets and freeze bank accounts.  
 Demonstrators set buildings on fire in central Bangkok last
month after Thailand’s military launched an assault on their
main protest area, bringing an end to the two-month standoff.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anuchit Nguyen  in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        