-- Fed Sells $1.15 Billion of Term Deposits in Auction
-- Joshua Zumbrun
-- 2010-06-15T17:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/fed-sells-1-15-billion-of-term-deposits-in-test-of-credit-tightening-tool.html

          
          
             The Federal Reserve said it sold
$1.15 billion in deposits in the first test of a credit-
tightening tool it may use to drain a near-record amount of cash
from the banking system.  
 The Fed offered $1 billion for 14 days through its Term
Deposit Facility and received bids worth $6.14 billion, the
central bank said in a statement today. The successful banks
will deposit money with the Fed from June 17, 2010, to July 1,
and receive interest of 0.27 percent. Banks currently receive
0.25 percent in interest on their excess reserves.  
 Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is planning to use the
program, which he says is analogous to a bank certificate of
deposit, to eventually help policy makers raise interest rates.
With $1.05 trillion in  excess reserves  in the banking system,
central bank officials are looking for new ways to help achieve
their target rate for overnight lending among banks.  
 The auction “certainly drew enough interest from
bidders,” said  Thomas Simons , a money-market economist at
Jefferies & Co. in New York, one of the 18 primary dealers that
deal directly with the Fed. “I don’t see anything that
indicates that there were any problems.”  
 The central bank aims to prevent  excess reserves  from
stoking inflation. Fed officials pumped the cash into the
banking system while expanding the central bank balance sheet to
end the financial crisis.  
 ‘Prudent Planning’  
 The tests “are a matter of prudent planning and have no
implications for the near-term conduct of monetary policy,” the
Fed said last month when it announced the schedule for the
auctions.  
 The Fed also plans to use reverse repurchase agreements to
reduce excess liquidity. In a reverse repo, the Fed lends
securities for a set period, draining cash from the banking
system. At maturity, the securities are returned to the Fed, and
the cash to the primary dealers.  
 “The use of reverse repos and the deposit facility would
together allow the Federal Reserve to drain hundreds of billions
of dollars of reserves from the banking system quite quickly,
should it choose to do so,” Bernanke told Congress in March.  
 The small size of the test makes it difficult to evaluate
how auctions for a hundredfold more in deposits would work,
Simons said. “I don’t know if an auction this small can give
you a great handle on how things will go when the real pace of
operations gets going.”  
 Tying up funds in the program should be attractive to banks
that have been leaving their excess reserves idle, Simons said.  
 “I don’t really think that they’re concerned about not
having the money available to make loans -- they’re not making
too many loans right now,” he said.  
 Unprecedented Policy  
 At the April 27-28 meeting of the Federal Open Market
Committee, the central bank signaled it’s not ready to begin its
exit from its unprecedented expansionary policy. The Fed pledged
to keep rates low for an “extended period.” The FOMC is next
scheduled to meet in Washington June 22-23.  
 The Fed may conduct four additional tests of the program.
An auction for 28-day deposits will be held June 28, and a sale
of 84-day deposits will be held July 12. Two further tests may
be scheduled later in the summer, the  central bank  said last
month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The U.S. Federal Reserve building stands in Washington D.C. Photographer: Melissa Golden/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
