-- Fortis Healthcare `Keeping Options Open' on Khazanah Offer to Buy Parkway
-- Saikat Chatterjee
-- 2010-06-15T10:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/fortis-healthcare-keeping-options-open-on-khazanah-offer-to-buy-parkway.html

          
          
             Fortis Healthcare Ltd.  said it was
“keeping its options open” on Khazanah Nasional Bhd.’s offer
to acquire control of  Parkway Holdings Ltd. , Asia’s largest
hospital operator.  
 Fortis “will continue to evaluate its options in the best
interests of shareholders,” it said in a statement to the
Bombay Stock Exchange today. “The company will make further
announcements on its response to the Khazanah partial offer as
and when a decision has been reached.”  
 Kuala Lumpur-based Khazanah on May 27 offered S$1.18
billion ($845 million) to more than double its Parkway stake to
51.5 percent. Fortis, which owns 25.4 percent of Parkway, said
on June 9 it plans to raise 27.5 billion rupees ($591 million)
and its board approved doubling its borrowing limit to 60
billion rupees.  
 Fortis said the fund raising plans approved by its board
were “merely enabling resolutions and are subject to requisite
approvals.”  
 Fortis rose 0.2 percent to 151.4 rupees in Mumbai.  Parkway 
gained 0.5 percent to S$3.79 in Singapore.  
 Parkway, whose shares have advanced 26 percent since
Khazanah made the offer, operates 16 hospitals with more than
3,400 beds in China, India and Singapore, among other Asian
countries, according to its  website .  Fortis  is India’s second-
biggest hospital operator by market value after Apollo Hospitals
Enterprise Ltd.  
 The Economic Times reported today Fortis hired Religare
Capital,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and Macquarie Group
Ltd. to raise funds. The money may be used to finance a counter-
bid for Parkway, the newspaper said.  
 A group of banks is willing to provide as much as $1
billion, the Times said, adding Fortis declined to comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saikat Chatterjee  in New Delhi at 
 schatterjee4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        