-- Four-Week Bill Rates Approach Zero on Quarter-End Demand, Supply Decline
-- Liz Capo McCormick
-- 2010-06-15T17:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/four-week-bill-rates-approach-zero-on-quarter-end-demand-supply-decline.html

          
          
             Treasury four-week  bill rates 
approached negative territory for the first time since January
on quarter-end buying, shrinking supply and a U.S. regulation
requiring investors to purchase more-liquid  assets .  
 The rate on U.S. government debt maturing in one month fell
to 0.0091 percent, the lowest level since Feb. 1, before rising
to 0.016 percent. The  three-month  bill rate was 0.071 percent
after dropping yesterday to 0.0487 percent, the lowest since
Jan. 26. Six-month  bill rates  advanced to 0.158 percent after
falling yesterday to 0.136 percent, the lowest since Jan. 29.  
 Buttressing demand for bills are Securities and Exchange
Commission rules that went into effect in May limiting risk and
a reduction by the Treasury in the number of bills being sold as
it lengthens average maturities. Investors are attracted to the
safest maturities at quarter-end to improve the quality of
assets on their balance sheets. Negative bill rates mean
investors are willing to pay the government to hold their money,
protecting them from the potential losses of other investments.  
 “The move in bill rates is more structural and technical
than liquidity- and flight-to-safety-induced,” said  Bonnie Williams , a Treasury bill trader at Jefferies & Co., one of the
18 primary dealers obligated to bid in bill sales. “Bill rates
are so low due to the upcoming quarter-end, reduced supply and
new SEC guidelines that require some investors to hold more
liquid securities.”  
 Below Zero  
 Bill rates dropped below zero for the first time in
December 2008, when investors sought the relative safety of
short-term U.S. government securities after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The last time the four-week bill
rate was negative was in January.  
 An elevated amount of cash in the hands of institutional
investors and on corporate balance sheets is contributing to the
rise in demand for Treasury bills and the fall in rates, wrote
New York-based  Alex Roever , head of short-term debt strategy at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., and  Teresa Ho , a strategist, in a research
note on June 11.  
 “We would not be surprised to see yields on one-month and
shorter bills turn negative before month-end,” the analysts
wrote. “By the time the calendar flips to next month, we
suspect some of this extreme demand will ease.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        