-- Frank Proposes Altering Plan on New York Fed Chief
-- Craig Torres
-- 2010-06-15T22:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/frank-proposes-alternative-to-president-appointing-chief-of-new-york-fed.html

          
          
             Barney Frank , the U.S. House’s chief
negotiator on an overhaul of financial regulation, proposed
dropping a provision making the president of the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York a White House appointee, while also requiring
more disclosure from the central bank.  
 Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee,
would instead reduce the role of commercial banks in choosing
all 12 regional Fed chiefs. His measure counters a proposal by
Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , who wants to
make the New York Fed chief a political appointee as part of
efforts to avoid what he said are “conflicts of interest.”  
 “There is going to be a debate,” said  Karen Shaw Petrou ,
managing partner at Federal Financial Analytics, a Washington-
based research firm whose clients include America’s biggest
banks. “For Senator Dodd to just roll and say ‘sure’ on the
Frank offer would put him in a difficult position.”  
 Frank aims to increase transparency at the Fed as part of
financial-regulatory overhaul legislation that would also grant
the central bank a bigger role in overseeing Wall Street. His
proposal, made as House and Senate lawmakers meet to reconcile
different versions of legislation, would mandate an
unprecedented level of disclosure by the Fed.  
 The joint conference committee of legislators from the two
chambers is scheduled to discuss the Fed provisions tomorrow.  
 The aim is “complete transparency” from the Fed, Frank
told reporters during a break in talks today. “ The Fed  will not
be interacting with any private party without that ultimately
becoming public, although not right away because you don’t want
it to affect markets.”  
 Support of Senators  
 Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  doesn’t favor making
the New York Fed president, a position he once held, a
presidential appointee. Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat, has the
support of some senators such as Vermont independent  Bernard Sanders , who called the proposal “a great thing.”  
 The proposal by Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, may
satisfy some of the concerns raised by Dodd, said analysts
including  Mark Calabria , a former member of the Republican staff
on the Senate Banking Committee who is now director of financial
regulation studies at the Cato Institute in Washington.  
 “Barney has been clever about this,” Calabria said. “By
saying you are taking the bankers out of the voting, you can say
with a straight face that we have resolved the conflict of
having the bankers picking their regulator.”  
 More Disclosure  
 Frank also wants to require the central bank, after a two-
year delay, to name firms that borrow through its discount
window and participate in the Fed’s purchases or sales of assets
such as mortgage-backed securities.  
 Central bank Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and several regional
Fed presidents opposed the measure making the New York Fed chief
a presidential appointee subject to Senate approval. St. Louis
Fed President  James Bullard  has said the legislation represented
an effort by politicians to exert more control over monetary
policy.  
 The 12 regional Fed presidents are each selected by a nine-
member board of directors and approved by the Fed’s Board of
Governors in Washington. Currently, three directors are bankers
appointed by banks, three are non-bankers selected by banks, and
three are non-bankers chosen by the Board of Governors.  
 On the New York Fed chief, Frank said he heard concerns
from “people who thought it was going to elevate the New York
Fed above everybody else” and from “people in the New York Fed
who thought it was going to interfere.”  
 Higher Rates  
 Frank repeated his concern that regional Fed presidents
tend to favor higher interest rates and said he would explore
the “whole question of how the regional bank presidents are
selected” and their powers. “That’s a subject for next year,”
Frank said. The House didn’t include provisions on Fed
governance in its legislation, passed in December.  
 Under Frank’s proposal today, only the six non-bankers
would select each regional Fed president, subject to governors’
approval. The plan would also replace a Senate provision that
prevents bank employees from serving as Fed directors.  
 Frank’s plan for Fed disclosure falls short of the House-
passed provision, backed by Texas Representative  Ron Paul , the
author of the book “End the Fed,” that would strip the central
bank of a 1978 shield from congressional audits of interest-rate
decisions and discount-window borrowing.  
 At the same time, the Frank measure goes beyond the Senate
bill, which would open the Fed to a one-time audit of its
emergency loans and other actions to combat the financial crisis
starting in December 2007.  
 Bernanke, while advocating increased transparency for Fed
policies and decisions, has held firm against identifying banks
that borrow from the Fed’s discount window.  
 Bloomberg LP has sued the central bank to release records of
discount-window loans following a request under the Freedom of
Information Act. The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York ruled
March 19 that the Fed must release the records. The Federal
Reserve Board asked the appeals court in May to reconsider its
ruling.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        