-- French Law Would Create Independent Entity to Sell EDF's Wholesale Power
-- Tara Patel
-- 2010-06-15T12:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/french-law-would-create-independent-entity-to-sell-edf-s-wholesale-power.html

          
          
             Electricite de France SA , Europe’s
biggest power generator, will sell nuclear output to rivals
through a planned “independent entity” created under a
proposed law making its way through the French parliament.  
 The legislation, known as Nome, will force EDF to sell
about a quarter of its nuclear output, or 100 terawatt-hours a
year, to competitors including  GDF Suez SA . The National
Assembly has scheduled a vote on the law today.  
 The latest version of the law, which will move to the
Senate after today’s vote, includes the creation of a “legal
entity independent of EDF and power suppliers” that will
organize “information exchange” between the state-controlled
nuclear operator and buyers.  
 The inclusion of an independent body was designed to
prevent EDF from having access to rivals’ forecasts on power use
and customers,  Jean-Claude Lenoir , deputy for the ruling Union
for a Popular Movement party, said by telephone.  
 France’s regulator, the Commission de Regulation de
l’Energie, will oversee distribution of the power from EDF’s
existing 58 nuclear reactors to ensure the “development of
balanced competition,” the draft said.  
 The law was proposed by the government under pressure from
antitrust authorities at the European Commission who have
started investigations into EDF’s dominance in its home market.
Energy Minister  Jean-Louis Borloo  has said the measures won’t
result in higher prices for French consumers.  
 Fought the Law  
 EDF fought the law and Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  has said the utility wants a minimum price for the
wholesale power, which will be set by the government and the
regulator. Wholesale power sales can be stopped in the case of
unforeseen problems at EDF’s reactors.  
 The latest draft is “balanced” Lenoir said. Senate debate
will likely start mid-September, he said.  
 The most-recent version also stipulates that the wholesale
price will be “in line” with the Tartam below-market rate for
industry of about 42 euros a megawatt-hour and will take into
account EDF’s costs for operations, maintenance, reactor life
extension and radioactive waste management.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        