-- G2 Acquires Vesey Street Partners to Expand Real Estate Investing Division
-- Jason Kelly
-- 2010-06-15T13:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/g2-purchase-of-vesey-street-partners-adds-ex-lehman-real-estate-executives.html

          
          
             G2 Investment Group  bought advisory
firm Vesey Street Partners, adding former Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. executives to expand its real estate division
after property values tumbled during the financial crisis.  
 Vesey will be folded into New York-based G2 Real Estate
Partners, Vesey co-founder Larry Kravetz said in an interview.
Co-owners Kenneth Cohen and Charles Manna also joined G2’s
property group as managing partners. Terms of the agreement
weren’t disclosed.  
 G2 is among the Wall Street firms taking advantage of
turmoil in financial services to hire bankers and expand into
businesses such as real estate with the expectation of a
rebound. U.S. commercial property values were down 42 percent in
March from the October 2007 peak, according to the  Moody’s/REAL
Commercial Property Price Index .  
 “This market offers a historic entry point for real estate
investors, and G2 Real Estate will be a critical part of G2’s
overall platform,”  J. Todd Morley , chairman and chief executive
officer of G2, said by e-mail. “I have known Kenny for over 20
years and he and his team are the best in the business.”  
 G2 has offices New York, Hong Kong and Qatar. Kravetz
established the large loan group at Lehman Brothers, where Manna
was a senior executive, according to G2. Cohen specialized in
real estate debt at Lehman Brothers, which filed for bankruptcy
protection on Sept. 15, 2008.  
 Lehman Brothers Alumni  
 The real estate group includes former Lehman Brothers
executives  Spencer Kagan , who headed credit and underwriting for
the large loan group;  Alan Kanders , managing director in the
bank’s commercial real estate group; and former real estate
analyst Jeffrey Mudrick.  
 The real estate hires follow the addition of former Lehman
Brothers credit traders  Scott Best  and James Gregorek and Larry
Taylor, a former credit analyst at investment bank Donaldson,
Lufkin & Jenrette Inc.  
 Morley, who worked at Lehman Brothers in the 1980s, also
signed a deal last month with descendants of the late  Malcolm S. Forbes  to manage money for wealthy families and institutional
investors through a new business called Forbes Private Capital
Group. Forbes, who died in 1990, was publisher of Forbes
magazine.  
 The real estate group, in addition to providing advice, is
creating a commercial-mortgage lending arm. It plans to start a
credit fund and another for hospitality investments.  
 “The time is right to be getting back into the market,”
Manna said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        