-- German Stocks Rise for Second Day; Commerzbank, Salzgitter Lead Advance
-- Julie Cruz
-- 2010-06-15T15:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/german-stocks-fall-before-zew-confidence-report-heidelberger-druck-slumps.html

          
          
             German stocks  rose for a second day,
with the DAX Index closing at the highest level in more than a
month, as a rally in financial shares overshadowed a drop in
German investor confidence and a rating downgrade for Greece.  
 Commerzbank AG and  Deutsche Bank AG  followed European
banking shares higher. Sky Deutschland AG jumped to the highest
level in more than a month.  Lanxess AG  advanced 1.9 percent as
Nomura Holdings Inc. lifted its recommendation on the stock.  
 The benchmark  DAX  climbed 0.8 percent to 6,175.05, the
highest close since May 13. The gauge is still 2.5 percent below
its April 26 high on concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
will harm the recovery. The broader  HDAX Index  also advanced 0.8
percent today.  
 “Investors are a bit immune to negative themes and bad
news are already priced in; that’s why the market goes up,”
said  Andreas Lipkow , an equity trader at MWB Fairtrade
Wertpapierhandelsbank AG in Frankfurt. “The sentiment was too
bearish in the last few weeks.”  
 Greece’s credit rating was cut to non-investment grade, or
junk, by Moody’s Investors Service late yesterday. The downgrade
threatens to further undermine demand for the debt-strapped
nation’s assets as it struggles to rein in its budget deficit.  
 The Mannheim-based ZEW Center for European Economic
Research said today its index of investor and analyst
expectations, which aims to predict developments six months
ahead, slumped to 28.7 in June from 45.8 in May. Economists
forecast a drop to 42, according to the median of 35 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Deutsche Bank, Commerzbank  
 Deutsche Bank and  Commerzbank  rose 2 percent to 49.54 euros
and 1.8 percent to 5.97 euros, respectively. European banking
shares advanced 1.6 percent today, the second-best performers
among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Allianz
SE , the Germany’s biggest insurer, increased 1.9 percent to
84.35 euros.  
 Infineon Technologies AG  rallied 3.4 percent to 5.11 euros.
Europe’s second-largest chipmaker hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. as
adviser on a possible sale of its mobile-chip unit, Financial
Times Deutschland reported, without saying where it got the
information.  
 Sky Deutschland jumped 18 percent to 1.62 euros. British
Sky Broadcasting Plc, the U.K.’s largest pay-TV provider,
spurned a 7.8 billion-pound ($11.5 billion) offer from  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp., asking for the bid to be raised by at
least 14 percent. In December, News Corp. raised its stake in
Sky Deutschland, Germany’s biggest pay-TV service, to more than
45 percent.  
 Lanxess Gains  
 Lanxess climbed 1.9 percent to 37.77 euros as Nomura lifted
its recommendation on Germany’s largest publicly-traded
specialty chemicals maker to “neutral” from “reduce.”  
 Draegerwerk AG & Co. KGaA surged 5.3 percent to 56.25
euros. The German maker of medical equipment was raised to
“add” from “hold” at Commerzbank AG. Bankhaus Lampe KG
lifted its recommendation on the stock to “buy” from “hold.”  
 Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG  slid 8.4 percent to 7.98
euros, the biggest decline in three weeks. The world’s largest
maker of printing presses said it plans to sell stock to cut
debt and forecast a “significant net loss” in the 12 months
through March 2011.  
 Linde AG slipped 0.7 percent to 87.05 euros. The world’s
second-biggest maker of industrial gases was cut to “neutral”
from “buy” at Nomura.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        