-- German Investor Confidence Slumps on Concern Debt Crisis Threatens Growth
-- Gabi Thesing
-- 2010-06-15T13:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/german-investor-confidence-drops-more-than-forecast-on-europe-debt-crisis.html

          
          
             German investor confidence plunged
in June on concern that the sovereign debt crisis will undermine
export prospects and crimp growth in Europe’s largest economy.  
 The Mannheim-based  ZEW Center for European Economic
Research  said today its index of investor and analyst
 expectations , which aims to predict developments six months
ahead, slumped to 28.7 from 45.8 in May. That’s the biggest
decline since October 2008 following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. Economists forecast a drop to 42,
according to the median of 35 estimates in a Bloomberg News
 survey .  
 Greece’s near default has prompted governments from Berlin
to Madrid to implement budget cuts to convince investors they
can tame deficits, threatening to damp demand and hurt the
region’s economic recovery. While the euro’s 15 percent drop
against the dollar this year may boost exports outside the
currency region, the 16-nation bloc is Germany’s most important
market.  
 “Investors are now worried that governments will kill off
the recovery with their austerity measures,” said  Jens Kramer ,
an economist at NordLB in Hanover. “While they realize that the
budget deficits have to be reined in, it’s almost impossible to
do that without slowing down growth, particularly among
Germany’s main trading partners.”  
 Support for Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition plummeted
to a record low in a poll of German decision makers published
today.  
 Criticism of Merkel  
 Merkel, criticized for her handling of the European debt
crisis, her budget-cutting measures and infighting in her
government, drew the lowest support of her chancellorship,
according to the Allensbach survey published in Capital
magazine. A majority of Germans expect the ruling alliance to
fall apart before the next federal election, an Infratest-Dimap
survey published June 12 showed.  
 The euro initially fell after the ZEW report before
rebounding to $1.2259 at 12:30 p.m. in Frankfurt. European 
stocks also recouped losses to  trade higher . Germany’s 
benchmark  DAX  index has gained 5 percent in the past week.  
 For now, Germany’s economy is showing few signs of
discomfort, with the  unemployment  rate unexpectedly falling to
7.7 percent last month as companies ramped up production and
added workers to meet booming orders. ZEW’s gauge of current
conditions rose to minus 7.9 from minus 21.6 in May.  
 ‘Long-Term Average’  
 The headline ZEW number “is not as shocking as it seems,”
said  Klaus Baader , co-chief European economist at Societe
Generale SA in London. “Yes, it’s a big drop, but it’s still
around the long-term average” of 27.4, he said.  
 The Bundesbank on June 11 raised its growth forecasts,
predicting expansion of 1.9 percent this year and 1.4 percent in
2011, up from 1.6 percent and 1.2 percent respectively.  
 Continental AG , Europe’s second-biggest car-parts maker, on
June 10 increased its sales-growth estimate for this year to
more than 10 percent after business through May was stronger
than the company expected.  
 “The decline in ZEW expectations, together with recent
falls in business and consumer sentiment, is a worrying
sign for the future,” said  Jennifer McKeown , an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “Fears about peripheral debt
are damaging sentiment towards core euro-zone economies.”  
 Greece Downgrade  
 Greece’s credit rating was cut to non-investment grade by
Moody’s Investors Service yesterday, threatening to further
undermine demand for the nation’s assets as it struggles to rein
in the euro region’s second-biggest deficit.  
 Fitch Ratings last month stripped Spain of its top AAA
credit grade and questioned the nation’s ability to grow its
economy as the government reduces spending.  
 The debt crisis is making banks wary of lending to each
other amid concern financial companies own too many bonds from
Europe’s most indebted nations. That’s driving up interbank
lending costs, which may reduce the flow of credit to companies
and households.  
 Europe’s banks will have to write down 195 billion euros of
bad debt by 2011, on top of the 444 billion euros of writedowns
they have already logged, the European Central Bank said on May
31.  
 Praktiker AG , Germany’s second-biggest home-improvement
retailer, said last month it expects sales to drop further at
its stores in Greece as the government implements budget cuts
worth 14 percent of the country’s gross domestic product.  
 “We better get used to the idea of considerably slower
growth from the end of this year,” said  Andreas Moeller , an
economist at WGZ Bank in Duesseldorf. “Germany’s economy is
overly reliant on exports, and the crisis is pulling the rug
from under its feet.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        