-- Global Demand for U.S. Financial Assets Rose More Than Forecast in April
-- Vincent Del Giudice
-- 2010-06-15T13:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/global-demand-for-u-s-assets-rose-more-than-forecast-in-april.html

          
          
             Global demand for long-term U.S.
financial assets rose more than forecast in April as investors
in the U.K., China and Japan added to their holdings of
Treasuries, a government report showed.  
 Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$83 billion in April, compared with net purchases of a record
$140.5 billion in March, Treasury Department data released today
in Washington showed. Including short-term securities such as
stock swaps, foreigners bought a net $15 billion, compared with
net buying of $26 billion the previous month.  
 Signs of a sustained recovery in the U.S., as well as a
flight from the financial-market turmoil in Europe, may increase
the flow of investment into the world’s largest economy.
International investors accumulated Treasuries for an 11th
straight month, today’s report showed.  
 “Overseas investors still love Treasuries,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at Jefferies & Co. in New
York. “Safety is still the primary concern. I expect this
pattern will be repeated in the May and June data as well.”  
 Economists in a  Bloomberg News survey  projected long-term
U.S. financial assets would show a net increase of $70 billion
in April. Seven economists participated in the survey, with
estimates ranging from net selling of $25 billion to net buying
of $150 billion.  
 U.K. Increases  
 Holdings of Treasuries in the U.K. totaled $321.2 billion
in April, an increase of $42.2 billion from March, the report
showed.  
 China remained the biggest foreign investor in U.S.
Treasuries, after its holdings rose by $5 billion in April to
$900.2 billion, according to the Treasury’s statistics. Japan,
the second-largest owner, increased its holdings by $10.6
billion in April to $795.5 billion.  
 China has kept the yuan pegged to the dollar as a crisis-
fighting policy, swelling its Treasury holdings and fueling
complaints from U.S. lawmakers that it has an unfair advantage
in global commerce.  
 During a visit to Beijing last month, Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  said he’s “as confident as I’ve ever been”
that China has a growing incentive to let its currency gain
against the dollar, and he welcomed President  Hu Jintao’s  pledge
of steady and gradual changes to the exchange-rate system.  
 The Treasury’s reporting on long-term securities captures
international purchases of government notes and bonds, stocks,
corporate debt and securities issued by U.S. agencies such as
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , which buy home mortgages.  
 Treasuries, Agencies  
 Total foreign purchases of Treasury notes and bonds were
$76.4 billion in April, compared with purchases of $108.5
billion in March. Foreign demand for U.S. agency debt from
companies such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac registered net
buying of $14.3 billion in April after buying of $22 billion in
March.  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index  in April rose 1.5 percent,
the third straight month of increases, while the  Dollar Index , a
gauge of the U.S. currency’s strength against six other major
currencies, gained 1 percent. U.S. Treasuries gained 1.1 percent
in April, according to an index compiled by Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  
 The euro dropped 1.6 percent against the dollar in April, a
fifth straight monthly decline.  
 Net foreign purchases of equities were $10.1 billion in
April after net buying of $11.2 billion in March. Investors
purchased a net $10.1 billion in U.S. corporate debt in April,
buying $16 billion in March.  
 During the financial crisis, investors have sought U.S.
securities “because they had confidence in this country and our
ability to act to fix our problems,” Geithner told the Senate
Finance Committee last week. “We are going to do everything we
can to make sure we continue to earn that confidence because
it’s so important to our economic strength.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vincent Del Giudice  in Washington at 
Or  vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        