-- GMAC Mortgage Favored Georgia Lawmaker, Pressured Miami Firm, Lawsuit Says
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-06-15T23:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/gmac-mortgage-favored-georgia-lawmaker-pressured-miami-firm-lawsuit-says.html

          
          
             GMAC Mortgage Corp. “pressured” a
Miami real estate company to modify the terms of a loan to a
Georgia state legislator’s brother and failed to maintain the
firm’s foreclosed properties in its role as a loan servicer,
according to a lawsuit.  
 American Residential Equities LLC  said in its complaint
that those and other failures by GMAC resulted in a breach of
contract entitling it to money damages and a court order to
inspect the servicer’s records on its loans.  
 “GMAC has systematically mismanaged hundreds of loans and
properties in our portfolio,” American Residential president
 Jeffrey Kirsch  said today in a statement announcing the case,
filed in Miami federal court on June 11.  
 GMAC, at the request of East Point, Georgia, Representative
 Joe Heckstall , gave a second home-loan modification in May 2009
to the legislator’s brother, Cornelius, after he’d failed to
meet the terms of a prior one, then forced that agreement on
American Residential, which had rejected prior requests,
according to the complaint and American Residential’s attorney,
Alan Rosenthal.  
 Now doing business as GMAC Mortgage LLC, the Fort
Washington, Pennsylvania-based company is a unit of Ally
Financial Inc.  Jeannine Bruin , a spokeswoman for the servicer,
didn’t immediately reply to a voice-mail and e-mail messages
seeking comment after regular business hours.  
 Ally Financial is based in Detroit.  
 Joe Heckstall didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail
message left at his home.  
 GMAC also is accused in the lawsuit of failing to secure
foreclosed properties, of over-insuring some of them and of
refusing the Miami firm’s audit requests.  
 Rosenthal said his client is seeking “substantial”
damages and that losses have yet to be fully determined.  
 The case is American Residential Equities LLC v. GMAC
Mortgage LLC, 10cv21943, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of Florida (Miami).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        