-- Gold Futures Advance Most in a Week on Demand for Currency Alternative
-- Pham-Duy Nguyen
-- 2010-06-15T18:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/gold-futures-advance-most-in-a-week-on-demand-for-currency-alternative.html

          
          
             Gold prices rose the most in a week
on demand for an alternative investment to currencies as the
dollar slumped and concern mounted that Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis will escalate.  
 The greenback dropped for a second straight day against a
basket of six currencies. Debt levels in Spain and Portugal may
“snowball” in coming years, and additional budget cuts are
needed to meet deficit targets announced a month ago, according
to a draft European Commission document.  
 “It doesn’t hurt gold to have a weaker dollar,” said  Matt Zeman , a trader at LaSalle Futures Group in Chicago. “At some
point, gold’s inverse relationship to the dollar will return.
This rally in the euro will be short-lived, and Europe’s debt
issues will keep gold well-supported.”  
 Gold futures for delivery in August rose $9.90, or 0.8
percent, to $1,234.40 an ounce on the Comex in New York, the
biggest gain for a most-active contract since June 7.  
 The metal reached a record $1,254.50 on June 8 as the euro
dropped to a four-year low against the dollar. Gold has climbed
13 percent this year, and the euro has dropped 14 percent.  
 Gold historically has moved in tandem with the euro as an
alternative to the dollar. This year, gold denominated in euros,
U.K. pounds and Swiss francs also has climbed to records.  
 “Any severe weakness in the euro will spark capital flow
into gold,” said  Frank Lesh , a trader at FuturePath Trading LLC
in Chicago. “There’s nothing to say that the problems in euro-
land are over.”  
 Junk Rating  
 Moody’s Investors Service yesterday cut Greece’s credit
rating to junk.  
 “Deteriorating public finances, anemic economic growth and
sovereign-debt and currency concerns should lead to continuing
safe-haven demand for gold,” Dublin-based broker GoldCore Ltd.
said today in a report.  
 Silver futures for July delivery climbed 16.7 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $18.578 an ounce on the Comex.  
 Platinum futures for July delivery rose $14.60, or 0.9
percent, to $1,578 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  
 Palladium futures for September delivery gained $12.95, or
2.8 percent, to $475.55 an ounce.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pham-Duy Nguyen  in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        