-- Greek Bonds Booted From Citigroup, Barclays Indexes After Ratings Cut
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-06-15T16:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/greek-government-bonds-to-be-removed-from-indexes-end-of-june-citi-says.html

          
          
             Greek government bonds will be
removed from bond indexes managed by Citigroup Inc. and Barclays
Plc at the end of this month after they were downgraded to junk
by Moody’s Investors Service.  
 The bonds will be removed from Citigroup’s World Government
Bond Index, the EMU Government Bond Index and the World Broad
Investment-Grade Bond Index, the U.S. bank said in an e-mailed
statement today. They will no longer be eligible for  Barclays 
Capital’s Global Aggregate, Global Treasury, Euro Aggregate and
Euro Treasury indexes from the end of June,  Laurent Fransolet ,
head of European fixed-income strategy at the bank in London,
wrote in an e-mailed response to questions today.  
 The removals may be stoking today’s bond selloff as fund
managers with a mandate to track the index are forced to dispose
of Greek debt. The nation’s ranking was lowered four steps to
Ba1 from A3 by Moody’s, which cited “substantial” risks to
economic growth from austerity measures tied to a 110 billion-
euro ($136 billion) aid package from the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund.  
 “There are currently 23 Greek government bonds in the June
2010 WGBI profile, comprising a total $213.6 billion in market
value and representing 1.34 percent of the overall WGBI,”
Citigroup said in an e-mailed statement. “After removal, a
country can later become a candidate for re-entry if it meets
the WGBI market inclusion rules. This process would take a
minimum of six months.”  
 Yield Premiums  
 A JPMorgan Chase & Co. spokeswoman declined to comment on
whether the bonds would remain in the bank’s government-bond
indexes.  
 The bonds of so-called peripheral euro-region nations,
including Greece, Ireland and Spain, fell relative to benchmark
German bunds today after Greece’s credit rating was cut.  
 The  premium  that investors demand to hold Greek 10-year
bonds over benchmark German bunds widened 70 basis points to 640
basis points. The so-called yield spread between Irish and
German 10-year bonds widened 16 basis points to 280 basis
points, while the Spanish spread widened two basis points to 206
basis points.  
 “There’s a lot of forced selling as Greek bonds fall out
of indexes, and if you’ve got to sell, you’ve got to sell,”
said  Harvinder Sian , a senior bond strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        