-- Iceland's Banks Face `Radical' Changes to Eradicate Era of Cross-Ownership
-- Omar R. Valdimarsson
-- 2010-06-15T10:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/iceland-s-banks-face-radical-changes-to-eradicate-era-of-cross-ownership.html

          
          
             Iceland’s banks face “radical”
changes as the government bars them from making loans to fund
purchases of their own shares after cross-ownership worsened the
island’s economic crisis, Economy Minister  Gylfi Magnusson  said.  
 The restrictions were approved by parliament on June 12 in
a package of amendments to the law on financial institutions
that also “drastically” limits lending where equity in another
bank is used as collateral, Magnusson said. The legislation
gives the Financial Services Authority greater scope to impose
fines and initiate criminal trials for banking malpractice.  
 Iceland is leading other nations in revamping its bank
industry, Magnusson said, after the failure of its three biggest
lenders in October 2008 razed the island’s  economy . The country,
the world’s fifth-richest per capita in 2007, had its debt
downgraded to junk by Fitch Ratings on Jan. 5, and has yet to
resolve a dispute with the U.K. and Netherlands over about $5.3
billion of claims stemming from failed  Landsbanki Islands  hf.  
 “This is a radical change of the laws on financial
companies,” Magnusson said yesterday in an interview in
Reykjavik. “I think the Icelandic legislation will be one or
two steps ahead of neighboring countries when it comes to
reacting to the weaknesses that have been discovered.”  
 The parliament-appointed Special Investigative Commission
on April 12 found  Kaupthing Bank hf , Landsbanki and  Glitnir Bank
hf , Iceland’s three biggest lenders before their collapse, gave
loans to customers who used the funds to buy shares in the
banks.  
 ‘Playing the Game’  
 Since the government of Prime Minister Johanna
Sigurdardottir won an April 25 election last year, the krona has
appreciated 9.4 percent against the euro. The currency, which
the central bank protects through capital controls, was little
changed against the euro at 10:01 a.m. in Reykjavik today.  
 In 2008, lending to U.K. entrepreneur  Robert Tchenguiz ,
chairman of R20 Ltd., and “related parties” corresponded to
more than 25 percent of Kaupthing’s equity, the commission’s
report showed. Tchenguiz, Kaupthing’s biggest retail borrower,
was also a board member in  Exista hf , one of Kaupthing’s owners.  
 The new legislation “should prevent institutions from
playing the game they played before,” Magnusson said.  
 Iceland probably won’t force banks to split their retail
and investment units, a measure being discussed in the U.S. and
U.K., Magnusson said.  
 “It’s worth the discussion and we’ll have that discussion,
although there’s nothing to indicate that our current dilemma
was caused by these two areas being mixed together,” he said.  
 Thorunn Sveinbjarnardottir, chairman of the parliamentary
group of the ruling Social Democratic Alliance, told lawmakers
last night that the party wants to impose a new banking tax,
given their combined 2009 profits of 51 billion kronur.  
 Negligence  
 The commission said in its April 12 report that government,
central bank and FSA negligence contributed to the banking
meltdown. Iceland, which has since relied on $4.6 billion in
loans from the International Monetary Fund and Nordic countries
to stay afloat, would have suffered a milder crisis had
authorities acted more “appropriately” at the time, the
commission found.  
 Efforts to rehabilitate the financial industry, where
cross-ownership contributed to a debt burden 12 times the
island’s gross domestic product before the collapse, are
repairing Iceland’s international ties.  
 European Union governments are set to start membership
talks with Iceland at a June 17 summit, according to a draft
declaration obtained yesterday by Bloomberg News.  
 The government of Prime Minister  Johanna Sigurdardottir  is
seeking to resolve the matter through negotiations with the U.K.
and Netherlands over losses at Landsbanki’s Icesave accounts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian enters the Landsbanki Islands hf headquarters in Reykjavik, Iceland on Tuesday, Oct. 7, 2008. Photographer: Arnaldur Halldorsson/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Local properties are reflected in windows at the Kaupthing Bank in Reykjavik, Iceland, on Tuesday, Oct. 7, 2008. Photographer: Arnaldur Halldorsson/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Protesters demonstrate in Reykjavik, Iceland, on Saturday, Nov. 15, 2008. The protests are against the near-collapse of the country's economy that has forced Iceland to go to the International Monetary Fund for aid. Photographer: Arnaldur Haldorsson/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
