-- Illinois Rating Downgrades, Tax Decline Weigh on $500 Million Bond Sale
-- Brendan A. McGrail
-- 2010-06-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/illinois-sales-tax-decline-downgrade-loom-over-500-million-bond-offering.html

          
          
             Illinois , whose projected deficit
equals half its proposed $25.9 billion budget, plans to sell
$496.7 million of debt backed by sales taxes today after two
rating cuts and as consumers unexpectedly curbed buying in May.  
 The bonds, funded with the state’s 80 percent portion of
sales taxes, carry the top rating from Standard & Poor’s and AA+
from Fitch Ratings, the second-highest. That’s better than the
state’s grade on general-obligation debt, which is supported by
overall revenue. Both Fitch and Moody’s Investors Service cut
the rankings on those securities one level this month as
lawmakers failed to close a $13 billion revenue shortfall in the
budget proposed for the fiscal year beginning July 1.  
 Even with their top rating, the sales-tax-backed securities
may suffer because they carry the name of Illinois. The state’s
five-year general-obligation bonds  pay investors  33 basis points
more yield than California, the lowest-rated state, according to
Bloomberg Fair Market Value Data, and the cost to insure
Illinois debt is the most among municipal credits monitored by
Bloomberg.  
 “I question this market’s ability on some of the less-
than-stellar credits to absorb deals right now,” said  Mike McKenna , a municipal bond trader with GMS Group LLC in
Livingston, New Jersey. “There’s going to be some pressure to
price. You could possibly see some very attractive deals this
week.”  
 Fitch lowered Illinois’ general-obligation credit one level
to A, its sixth-highest rank, and Moody’s cut it to A1, on par
with California.  Sales  at U.S. retailers unexpectedly fell 1.2
percent in May, the first decline in eight months, the Commerce
Department said June 11. Illinois sales tax collections fell 2.9
percent in the first quarter, the  Nelson A. Rockefeller 
Institute of Government said.  
 Tax-Exempt Program  
 Today’s Illinois sale is of tax-exempt Build Illinois
Bonds, a program created in 1985 to fund capital projects with
revenue from retail transactions. It’s led by Chicago-based
Cabrera Capital Markets LLC. The state also plans to sell $300
million of taxable Build America Bonds to finance transportation
in a competitive sale June 17.  
 The state’s most-recent issue of sales-tax-backed bonds was
for $375 million in December. Securities maturing in 2020 priced
to yield 3.9 percent, with investors paying more than 107 cents
on the dollar.  
 The yield at pricing was 76 basis points higher than  11-
year  top-rated debt. The bonds traded yesterday at 3.77 percent, 
59 basis points  more than comparable maturities, according to
Municipal Market Advisors. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  
 Sales Tax Lien  
 The tax-exempt credit is stronger than a typical general
obligation of the state, since there’s a lien on the sales tax
revenue before it enters the general fund, said  Mitch Kapnick ,
managing director of municipal securities at Cabrera Capital.
Sales tax collections rose 7.6 percent from a year earlier in
April and 6.2 percent in May, according to the  Illinois
comptroller .  
 “Unfortunately, it’s being tainted by the problems the
state is having,” he said.  
 Yields  on Illinois general-obligation bonds maturing in
five years have jumped 7 basis points to 2.33 percent since June
4, the day of the Moody’s downgrade. Investors are demanding 60
basis points more for state general obligations maturing in 2015
than for  top-rated  tax-exempts, according to Bloomberg Fair
Market Value data. The so-called  yield spread  between the two
has widened 16 basis points since the beginning of the year.  
 The cost of insuring Illinois bonds for five years using
credit default swaps was the most of any state at $286,700 per
$10 million of debt as of yesterday, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The cost rose $42,700 since the Moody’s ratings
cut.  
 Active Issuer  
 Illinois issued $5.54 billion of Build America Bonds in
2010, the second-most behind New York, which sold $6.33 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. California is third
with $5.53 billion.  
 The state plans to issue an additional $900 million of
Build Americas as soon as next week in a deal led by Citigroup
Inc.  
 In the state’s most-recent issue of Build America
securities in April, 25-year maturities priced to yield 6.7
percent, 60 basis points above the average yield of the
securities, according to a  Wells Fargo Index . In a trade
yesterday, the bonds had an average yield of 6.48 percent, 68
basis points above the index on June 11.  
 Kelly Kraft , a spokeswoman for Illinois Governor  Pat Quinn ’s Office of Management and Budget, couldn’t be immediately
reached for comment.  
 Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  
 UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA, spread over four campuses in the
Phoenix area, plans to offer $146.7 million in revenue bonds
today for construction of a health-science building. The notes
will be issued through the Arizona Board of Regents, the
governing body for the state’s three public universities, with
the sale split into $139.2 million in Build America Bonds and
$7.5 million in tax-exempts. JPMorgan Chase & Co. will lead the
group marketing the securities. (Updated June 15)  
 MASSACHUSETTS SCHOOL BUILDING AUTHORITY  plans to sell $151
million in Qualified School Construction Bonds for renovations
tomorrow. The debt is backed by state sales taxes. The
securities mature in 2027 and will be marketed by a group led by
Barclays Plc. (Updated June 15)  
 SAN ANTONIO, the seventh most-populous U.S. city, plans to
issue $250.8 million in debt tomorrow. The offering is split
into $201.9 million of Build America Bonds, $9.5 million of tax-
exempts and $39.4 million of combination tax and revenue
certificates of obligation. Proceeds will go toward improvements
of streets, bridges and public spaces. The Texas city is rated
AAA, the highest, by all three rating companies. The securities
will be marketed by a group led by Citigroup. (Updated June 15)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        