-- Lincoln Seeks Bond to Repay 2009 Rescue as Costs May Fall: New Issue Alert
-- Craig Trudell
-- 2010-06-15T09:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/lincoln-seeks-bond-to-repay-2009-rescue-as-costs-may-fall-new-issue-alert.html

          
          
             Lincoln National Corp. , the insurer
that took a U.S. bailout, plans to sell notes as Moody’s
Investors Service said it expects relative yields on corporate
bonds to fall as corporate earnings grow and defaults decline.  
 Lincoln, which bought a lender in late 2008 to qualify for
federal aid, will offer as much as $750 million in notes and
$335 million of stock to repay its $950 million rescue, the
Philadelphia-based company said yesterday in a statement
distributed by PR Newswire.  
 Moody’s expects spreads to narrow following the recent
“European-inspired erosion of U.S. corporate credit worth”
because companies are boosting profits and fewer high-yield,
high-risk issuers will default this year,  John Lonski , chief
economist at Moody’s Capital Markets Group in New York, wrote in
a research report dated yesterday.  
 “A recovery by cash flow amid corporate borrowing
restraint and ongoing monetary stimulus should narrow credit
risk premia following a satisfactory resolution of sovereign
debt issues,” Lonski wrote in the report. The trailing 12-month
high-yield default rate may decline to 2.7 percent by December
2010, from November 2009’s peak of 14.5 percent and April 2010’s
7.9 percent, the report said.  
 Chief financial officers in the U.S. said they expect
earnings growth of  12.1 percent  in the next 12 months, according
to the Duke University/CFO Magazine Global Business Outlook
Survey, the results of which were  released  June 9.  
 CFO Outlook  
 The CFOs’ outlook suggests that the high-yield bond yields
relative to Treasuries of similar maturity is at least 2
percentage points too high, Lonski wrote in yesterday’s report,
which said there is a “relatively strong historical
correlation” between the survey results and high-yield spreads.  
 Sales in June of corporate bonds rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s are headed to fall short
of the $6.8 billion of securities issued in May, the lowest
since March 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Potential issuers “are sitting around waiting to see when
the next shoe is going to fall,” said  Christian Wagner , who
helps oversee $150 million as chief investment officer of
Longview Capital Management in Wilmington, Delaware.  
 “Many companies are choosing to wait to issue at lower
prices,” said Wagner, who said Longview has increased its
holdings in corporate bonds and Treasuries by about 20 percent
from last month, to 35 percent.  
 Moody’s Cuts Greece  
 Relative yields have increased as European leaders face
growing skepticism about their ability to contain the region’s
sovereign debt crisis. Moody’s cut Greece’s credit rating four
steps and into junk status yesterday, from to Ba1 from A3. The
country, which was already rated junk by S&P, last month agreed
to a package of additional austerity measures to qualify for
financial aid from the European Union and the International
Monetary Fund.  
 Moody’s said the “macroeconomic and implementation risks”
for Greece associated with the EU-IMF support program “are
substantial and more consistent with a Ba1 rating.”  
 Lincoln and  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. , the
Connecticut-based carrier that repaid $3.4 billion in U.S. aid
in March, won relief funds in 2009 after appealing to Treasury
for the same support offered to banks during the 2008 financial
crisis. Hartford sold $1.1 billion of notes in March in a three-
part offering, according to Bloomberg data.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
debt instead of Treasuries fell 2 basis points to 211 basis
points yesterday, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s U.S. Corporate Master index. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  
 High-Yield Spreads  
 Spreads on high-yield debt fell 11 basis points to 716
basis points yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s U.S. High Yield Master II index. That’s 192 basis points
from the year’s low of 542 basis points on April 26.  
 Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s largest automaker, sold $2
billion of five- and 10-year notes through its finance arm, and
 Genzyme Corp.  issued $1 billion of debt in a two-part sale in
yesterday’s only corporate bond offerings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Companies issued $9.4 billion of debt
last week, Bloomberg data show.  
 Following is a description of the $4.9 billion pending
sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  
 Investment Grade  
 CHILE plans to sell $1 billion of 10-year bonds, along with
its debut sale of peso securities, Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  said. The country will “certainly” issue the debt this
year, Larrain said. Proceeds will be used to help finance
repairs after the February earthquake, Larrain said.  
 DOHA BANK QSC , Qatar’s third-largest bank, plans to sell
senior notes in dollars, the lender said in a statement on the
Qatari bourse, without disclosing the size of the offering.  
 FORETHOUGHT FINANCIAL GROUP INC. plans to sell $150 million
of 10-year bonds, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. S&P assigned the notes a grade of BBB- in a March 24
report.  
 Not Rated  
 The PROVINCE OF CORDOBA, Argentina, plans to sell as much
as $350 million of bonds in international markets once the
federal government completes a restructuring of defaulted debt,
Banco de Cordoba said.  
 SENSIENT TECHNOLOGIES CORP.  said it entered into an
agreement with a group of four financial institutions for the
issuance of $110 million in fixed-rate, senior notes, according
to a Nov. 19 statement distributed by Business Wire. The company
plans to issue seven-year debt to repay existing indebtedness,
Sensient said in a March 1 regulatory filing.  
 High Yield  
 TITLEMAX HOLDINGS LLC, the automobile title lending
company, plans to sell $225 million of five-year senior secured
first-lien notes, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. Proceeds will be used to repay outstanding debt,
said the person, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. The issue is expected to be rated B2 by Moody’s and
B+ by S&P, the person said.  
 AKBANK TAS , the Turkish bank part-owned by Citigroup Inc.,
plans to sell five-year, dollar-denominated eurobonds worth up
to $1 billion, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock
Exchange.  
 CEDAR FAIR ENTERTAINMENT CO. , the operator of amusement
parks that called off a takeover by an Apollo Management LP
affiliate, said it plans to sell $500 million of senior
unsecured notes due in 2020. Proceeds will be used to repay
existing debt, the Sandusky, Ohio-based company said in a May 20
statement distributed by PR Newswire.  
 WILLBROS GROUP INC.  plans to sell $250 million of six-year
notes and seek a $50 million term loan to help pay for its
acquisition of InfrastruX Group Inc., according to a company
statement distributed by Marketwire. Willbros will also use 7.9
million shares of its stock and cash on hand to pay for the
acquisition, it said in the statement. Moody’s rates the notes
B3 and S&P ranks them B+.  
 IRSA INVERSIONES Y REPRESENTACIONES SA , Argentina’s biggest
real-estate company, extended an offer to sell $250 million in
10-year bonds until June 24, the company said in a regulatory
filing in Buenos Aires on June 14. S&P assigned the notes a
grade of B-, six steps below investment quality.  
 CAPELLA HEALTHCARE INC., the hospital operator backed by
private-equity firm GTCR Golder Rauner LLC, Capella plans to
sell $500 million of seven-year notes, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. Proceeds will be used to
refinance Capella’s existing first-lien credit facilities and
second-lien term loan, Moody’s Investors Service said in a
report.  
 TITAN INTERNATIONAL INC. , the maker of tire and wheel
systems for off-highway equipment, said it plans to sell at
least $150 million of senior unsecured notes. Proceeds will be
used to repurchase the 8 percent senior unsecured notes due in
2012 and for general corporate purposes, the Quincy, Illinois-
based company said in a May 13 statement distributed by Business
Wire.  
 INVENTIV HEALTH INC. , the provider of sales and marketing
services to science companies that is being acquired by Thomas
H. Lee Partners, may sell $275 million of senior notes to back
the purchase, it said in a regulatory filing.  
 CITGO PETROLEUM CORP., a U.S.-based unit of Petroleos de
Venezuela SA, plans to sell $1.5 billion of secured notes due in
2017 and 2020, according to a person familiar with the offering.
S&P assigned the notes a grade of BB+, one step below
investment-grade quality.  
 Offerings in Pipeline  
 LINCOLN NATIONAL CORP. , the insurer that took a U.S.
bailout, plans to sell as much as $750 million in notes and $335
million of stock to repay its $950 million rescue, the
Philadelphia-based company said in a statement distributed by PR
Newswire.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  will lead the debt and stock
offerings, and Bank of America Corp., Deutsche Bank AG and US
Bancorp will assist on the debt offering.  
 URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a LatinFinance conference in
London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of 20
years or more, Steneri said.  
 MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire the same banks,
including CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc, to
arrange the sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to
be named as the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25
billion from its first Shariah-compliant dollar bond in eight
years on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3 by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  
 INDOSAT PALAPA CO. , a unit of Indonesia’s second-largest
phone operator, delayed a planned dollar bond sale until market
conditions improve, a person familiar with the matter said May
26. Indosat began meetings with investors in Asia, the U.S. and
Europe on May 12 to gauge demand for a global bond sale,
according to a company statement sent to the Indonesian stock
exchange that day. Moody’s assigned a provisional Ba1 rating to
the notes and S&P rated them BB, one step lower.  
 SABIC CAPITAL , a unit of Saudi Basic Industries Corp.,
delayed a bond sale because of unfavorable spreads, Chief
Financial Officer Mutlaq al-Morished said. The bond offer
received more than $1 billion in investor interest, he said in a
May 26 telephone interview. The spreads were “not what we
wanted,” he said. Sabic Capital had hired HSBC Holdings Plc,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc to
sell a benchmark-sized bond, al-Morished said in a May 17
telephone interview.  
 GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond next
year to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production
boosts economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy
Finance Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government is considering
a “no-deal roadshow” as early as the fourth quarter to gauge
international investors’ appetite, Kwetey said in a May 26
interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its first global bond in 2007,
raising $750 million to help fund the construction of roads and
power plants.  
 ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds this
year. The southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated
at B+ by S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade.
Moody’s assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  
 EURASIAN NATURAL RESOURCES CORP. , a London-based iron ore
and alumina producer with operations in China and Russia, said
it delayed its first dollar bond sale. The company is
“postponing meetings with investors regarding a potential bond
issuance under its Euro Medium Term Note program until further
notice,” Charlotte Kirkham, a spokeswoman for ENRC, said in an
e-mail. The company had hired Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan
Stanley to manage the sale, according to a person familiar with
the transaction.  
 KAZAKHSTAN plans to sell between $500 million and $750
million in bonds to investors abroad in the autumn, Kazakh
Finance Minister  Bolat Zhamishev  said in a May 14 interview. The
bonds will probably be denominated in dollars and will be used
to set a benchmark for corporate borrowing, Zhamishev said.  
 QATARI DIAR REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT CO. may raise about $1.5
billion by selling global bonds backed by Qatar, according to a
person familiar with the sale plan. The developer may offer 10-
year conventional bonds and 5-year Islamic securities, said the
person who declined to be identified because details of the
transaction haven’t been completed. HSBC Holdings Plc and
Barclays Capital are among banks expected to manage the sale,
according to the person.  
 CREDIT EUROPE BANK LTD.  plans to sell three-year bonds in
dollars, according to people with knowledge of the sale. The
notes may be priced to yield 7.75 percent to 8 percent, the
people said. Citigroup Inc. is managing the sale.  
 CHINA ORIENTAL GROUP CO.  plans to sell senior notes to
provide working capital and possibly to finance the purchase of
steel mills and iron ore assets in China. Deutsche Bank AG will
manage the sale with ING Groep NV, according to a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange.  
 OAO SBERBANK  , Russia’s biggest lender, may sell $1 billion
of dollar-denominated bonds for the first time in two years when
debt markets improve, Deputy Chief Executive Officer Anton
Karamzin said. Sberbank will consider selling $1 billion of
“five-year senior unsecured” notes to establish a benchmark
“if the price is right,” Karamzin said. Sberbank hired DZ Bank
AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc to
organize meetings with bond investors, a banker involved in the
transaction said April 29.  
 BANK FOR INVESTMENT & DEVELOPMENT OF VIETNAM received
approval from the central bank to issue 7 trillion dong ($369
million) of notes and another 3 trillion dong of dollar-
denominated notes in 2010, according to a statement on State
Bank of Vietnam’s Web site.  
 BOLIVIA plans its first international bond sale in more
than 70 years as early as the end of 2011, Finance Minister  Luis Arce  said. He didn’t disclose the size of the offering.  
 KOREA FINANCE CORP.  plans to sell $100 million to $200
million of foreign-currency bonds in its first overseas debt
sale since October, Edaily reported, without citing anyone. The
state-run agency also plans to sell $1 billion of global bonds
in the U.S. in the second half of the year, the Korean-language
online newspaper said.  
 NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE FEDERATION of South
Korea, known as Nonghyup, hired five banks to help it sell U.S.
dollar-denominated bonds, according to two people with knowledge
of the matter. Citigroup Inc., Credit Agricole CIB, ING Groep
NV,  Morgan Stanley  and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc will
help the company with the benchmark offering, the people said.
The federation, which provides credit and banking services to
farmers, is considering a maturity of 5 1/2 years, according to
one of the people. Moody’s Investors Service rates Nonghyup A1.  
 PTT PRODUCTION & EXPLORATION PCL , the Thai oil explorer,
hired Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc to help it sell global bonds, according to two people
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified as the
plan is private.  
 POWER SECTOR ASSETS AND LIABILITIES MANAGEMENT CORP. of the
Philippines may sell between $750 million and $1.5 billion of
dollar-denominated bonds “anytime” to help refinance maturing
debt through next year, Vice Chairman  Jose Ibazeta  said. The
company manages the finances of state utility National Power
Corp.  
 BRISBANE AIRPORT CORP., owner of Australia’s third-busiest
airport, may sell bonds in the U.S. later this year as it
pursues new markets to help refinance debt and pay for a new
runway. The company is considering a 10- or 15-year U.S. private
placement and a five- to seven-year Australian dollar bond sale
in late 2010 or early 2011, Chief Financial Officer  Tim Rothwell 
said in a phone interview from Brisbane.  
 VIETNAM NATIONAL COAL-MINERAL INDUSTRIES GROUP, the state-
owned coal producer known as Vinacomin, plans to sell as much as
$500 million of bonds overseas this year to fund mining and
energy projects, according to Deputy Chief Executive Officer
 Nguyen Van Hai .  
 FINLAND may sell five-year bonds denominated in dollars
this year, the Finnish Treasury said in a document posted on its
Web site.  
 POLAND may delay selling dollar-denominated bonds until
July or the autumn, Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill 
was quoted as saying by PAP newswire. Poland may sell bonds in
euros as early as the autumn to prefinance its 2011 borrowing
needs, Radziwill was quoted as saying.  
 MONGOLIA plans to sell as much as $1.2 billion of bonds
overseas this year to fund infrastructure to support its mining
industry, Finance Minister  Sangajav Bayartsogt  said. This is
Mongolia’s first benchmark offering of dollar-denominated debt.
Investment banks are advising Mongolia to issue debt with
maturities of between 5 and 10 years, Bayartsogt said in an
interview. The securities may offer a yield of between 8 percent
and 11 percent, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell New York  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        