-- India Clears Plan to Sell Coal India, Hindustan Copper Stakes; Shares Jump
-- Abhishek Shanker
-- 2010-06-15T11:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/india-clears-plan-to-sell-coal-india-hindustan-copper-stakes-shares-jump.html

          
          
             Hindustan Copper Ltd. , India’s
monopoly producer of the metal ore, surged the most in two weeks
in Mumbai trading after the government approved a share sale.  
 Hindustan Copper  rose 9.1 percent to 512.60 rupees in
Mumbai, while the benchmark Sensitive Index added 0.4 percent.  
 Prime Minister Manmohan Singh wants to raise 400 billion
rupees ($8.6 billion) in the year ending March 31 selling shares
in one state-run company almost every month. State-controlled
Hindustan Copper’s stock has risen 85 percent this year.  
 “Pricing is going to be critical for the success of
Hindustan Copper share sale,” said  Sanjay Makhija , head of
institutional sales at Fortune Financial Services India Ltd.
“The market is reacting to the government’s decision to sell
shares in the company.”  
 The government will sell a 10 percent stake in Hindustan
Copper and the company will also sell a 10 percent stake in new
shares, Corporate Affairs Minister  Salman Khurshid , said by
phone today from New Delhi, after cabinet approved the sale at a
meeting. The cabinet also decided to sell a 10 percent stake in
Coal India Ltd., the nation’s monopoly producer, Khurshid said.  
 The government said in January it may sell shares in 60
companies to shrink its budget deficit to 5.5 percent of gross
domestic product this fiscal year from 6.9 percent last year.  
 New Shares  
 Hindustan Copper will offer a total of 185 million shares,
the company said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 The government’s stake in the company will reduce to 81.44
percent from 99.59 percent after the completion of the public
offer, it said. Retail investors and employees of the company
will be offered the shares at a discount of 5 percent.  
 “We hope to complete the share sale process by
September,”  Shakeel Ahmed , chairman at Hindustan Copper, said
in a phone interview after the approval.  
 Hindustan Copper extended a deadline for bankers to submit
bids to manage a proposed share sale. Banks have until June 24
to submit bids and the company expects to hire the bankers by
early July, Ahmed said yesterday.  
 Coal India’s initial share sale, expected to be in
September, may be delayed by as many as two months if markets
are not “conducive” then, Coal Minister  Sriprakash Jaiswal 
said in New Delhi today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        