-- India Proposes Tax on Capital Gains From Stock Transactions, Foreign Funds
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-06-15T15:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/india-proposes-tax-on-capital-gains-from-stock-transactions-foreign-funds.html

          
          
             India proposes to impose capital
gains tax on all stock transactions by Indians and overseas
funds as part of changes in tax laws that are aimed at boosting
revenue to pare the budget shortfall from a 16-year high.  
 The new proposals include a move to tax investments in
stocks and equity-linked mutual funds at the applicable tax
rates for income, according to a document posted on the Finance
Ministry’s website today. The so-called direct tax code also
proposes to allow a deduction at a specified percentage for
investments held for more than one year.  
 India’s Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  last year
unveiled plans for the biggest change to the nation’s tax law in
almost five decades, seeking to raise revenue in Asia’s third-
largest economy where a majority of the nation’s 1.2 billion
people don’t pay a rupee in income tax. Raising tax revenue
would help Mukherjee narrow the budget deficit to 5.5 percent of
 gross domestic product  in the year started April 1, from a 16-
year high of 6.9 percent in the previous 12 months.  
 India relies on the 27 million people who pay taxes in the
world’s second-most populous nation to help fund 10.2 trillion
rupees ($211 billion) in spending that’s needed to spur economic
growth.  
 Overseas investors, categorized as Foreign Institutional
Investors, will also be liable to pay tax. All investments by
such investors will be considered as capital gains. Overseas
funds that have been reporting income from stock investments as
business income and claiming exemptions will not be allowed to
claim such benefits, the tax code proposes.  
 Currently, short-term capital gains arising from sale of
stocks within a year are taxed at 15 percent and long term
capital gains for such investments held for more than a year are
exempt from tax.  
 The draft on the new tax code and a paper for public
discussion was released in August last year and today the
government released a revised discussion paper after receiving
feedback. The government has sought comments on the revised
discussion paper by June 30, it said in the statement.  
 India may present the draft direct tax code to lawmakers
during the monsoon session of parliament next month, Revenue
Secretary  Sunil Mitra  said in New Delhi today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        