-- India Proposes Capital Gains Tax on Stock Sales by Locals, Overseas Funds
-- Pooja Thakur
-- 2010-06-16T03:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/india-proposes-capital-gains-tax-on-stock-sales-by-locals-overseas-funds.html

          
          
             India proposes to impose a capital
gains tax on all stock transactions by Indians and overseas
funds, aimed at boosting revenue and pare the budget shortfall
from a 16-year high.  
 The new proposals include a move to tax investments in
stocks and equity-linked mutual funds at the applicable tax
rates for income, according to a document posted on the Finance
Ministry’s website yesterday. The so-called direct tax code also
proposes to allow a deduction at a specified percentage for
investments held for more than a year.  
 India’s Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  last year
unveiled plans for the biggest change to the nation’s tax law in
almost five decades, seeking to raise revenue in Asia’s third-
largest economy where a majority of the nation’s 1.2 billion
people don’t pay a rupee in income tax. Raising tax revenue
would help Mukherjee narrow the budget deficit to 5.5 percent of
 gross domestic product  in the year started April 1, from a 16-
year high of 6.9 percent in the previous 12 months.  
 “It’s understandable why the government is targeting
foreign institutional investors and domestic investors, they’re
easy targets,”  Vikas Pershad , Chicago-based chief executive
officer of hedge fund Veda Investments LLC, said in e-mailed
comments. Still “FIIs are the worst taxpayers to target,
because they’re the people for whom it’s easiest to take their
capital elsewhere,” he said.  
 Overseas investors, categorized as Foreign Institutional
Investors, will be liable to pay tax as per the proposals. All
investments by such investors will be considered as capital
gains. Overseas funds that have been reporting income from stock
investments as business income and claiming exemptions will not
be allowed to claim such benefits, the tax code proposes.  
 Few Taxpayers  
 India relies on the 27 million people who pay taxes in the
world’s second-most populous nation to help fund 10.2 trillion
rupees ($219 billion) in spending that’s needed to spur economic
growth.  
 Short-term capital gains arising from sale of stocks within
a year are taxed at 15 percent at present and long-term capital
gains for such investments held for more than a year are exempt
from tax.  
 The draft on the new tax code and a paper for public
discussion was released in August last year. The government
yesterday released a revised document, seeking comments from
investors.  
 India may present the draft direct tax code to lawmakers
during the monsoon session of parliament next month, Revenue
Secretary  Sunil Mitra  said in New Delhi yesterday.  
 Could Deter Investments  
 The proposals if passed as law could deter overseas
investments into India, Pershad said.  
 Overseas investors sold  $2.04 billion in Indian stocks  last
month, pulling out the most funds since October 2008 as the
European debt crisis roiled  global equity markets .  
 “India will become a less desirable market for foreign
investors if the taxes are raised as meaningfully as the
government is considering,” Pershad said. “Given the current
volatility of markets, more trades and investments are being
executed with a time horizon of less than 1 year -- why punish
people for being prudent?”  
 The new law also proposes tripling the limit on tax-free
investment in pension funds and life insurance to 300,000 rupees
($6,443) to boost savings and help the government raise finance
for ports, roads and airports.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        