-- Rupee Weakens, Snapping Three-Day Gains, After Moody's Cuts Greece Rating
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-06-15T12:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/indian-rupee-weakens-snapping-3-day-gain-after-greece-rating-downgrade.html

          
          
             India’s rupee weakened for the first
time in four days after Moody’s Investors Service cut Greece’s
credit rating to junk, reviving concern Europe’s debt crisis
will undermine the global economic recovery.  
 The currency retreated from near this month’s high after
Moody’s yesterday lowered Greece’s rating to Ba1 from A3, citing
“substantial” risks to economic growth from austerity measures
linked to an emergency loan package the country secured.
European nations including Germany, Italy and Spain have also
taken steps to rein in budget deficits this quarter.  
 “Financial-market sentiment remains jittery as Europe’s
debt troubles continue to pose a threat to the global economy,”
said  Roy Paul , deputy general manager at Federal Bank Ltd. in
Mumbai. “That may affect capital flows to emerging markets and
hence the rupee is looking weak.”  
 The rupee declined 0.2 percent to 46.5650 per dollar as of
the 5:30 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That took its loss this quarter to 3.5 percent, a
slide second only to South Korea’s won among Asia’s 10 most-used
currencies. The rupee touched 46.41 yesterday, the strongest
level since May 31.  
 Offshore forwards indicated the Indian currency will trade
at 46.66 to the dollar in one month, compared with expectations
of 46.55 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  
 The outlook for the rupee in the short term is not clear,
said  Thomas Harr , a currency strategist at Standard Chartered
Plc in Singapore yesterday. “Trading is going to be choppy for
a while,” he said. “The medium term outlook is still bullish
due to the Asian growth story.”  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has projected the economy to
grow 8.5 percent in the fiscal year that began April compared
with a rise of 7.4 percent in the year that ended March.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on Indian currency research: TNI INB ANAFX BN <GO>
Most read Indian currency and bonds stories: MNI INB BN <GO>
For Indian rupee forecasts: FXFC INR <GO>  
          
          


  


        