-- Indophil Resources Suspends Shares Pending `Clarity' on Philippine Reports
-- Jason Scott
-- 2010-06-16T02:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/indophil-resources-suspends-shares-pending-clarity-on-philippine-reports.html

          
          
             Indophil Resources NL , owner of a
third of the undeveloped $5.2 billion Tampakan copper project in
the Philippines, suspended its  shares  from Sydney trading
following reports of a provincial ban on open-pit mining.  
 The company is seeking clarification from government
officials and partner Sagittarius Mines Inc., a unit of  Xstrata 
Plc, Melbourne-based Indophil said today in a statement.
Media reports say that the outgoing provincial governor of South
Cotabatois is considering approval of a ban, it said.  
 “These same reports also confirm that any such ban is
beyond the scope of authority of local legislation,” Indophil
said.  
 Xstrata and Zijin Mining Group Co., which agreed in
December to buy Indophil for A$545 million ($471 million), have
said they are concerned by the mooted ban. The Tampakan project
is Southeast Asia’s largest untapped copper and gold deposit.  
 Shares of Indophil were halted on June 11. They fell 0.9
percent to A$1.095 the previous day, giving the Melbourne-based
company a market value of A$462 million. The stock will be
suspended until no later than June 23, today’s statement said.  
 Sagittarius, which has a 62.5 percent stake in Tampakan,
said last week it will consider “available options” after the
province’s legislative council approved a ban.  
 The project will produce an average of 340,000 metric tons
of copper and 350,000 ounces of gold annually for 20 years,
Indophil said in April 2009, citing a study by Xstrata, the
world’s fourth-largest copper producer. First production may
start in 2016, it said in October.  
 Fujian province-based Zijin is the largest gold producer in
 China , which is the world’s biggest metals consumer.  
 For Related News and Information: Top Stories: TOP <GO> Metal
Stories METT <GO> Philippine and Mining: TNI PHIL MNG <GO>  
          
          


  


        