-- Inflation a Bigger Risk to India Than Europe's Debt Woes, Chakrabarty Says
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-06-15T10:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/inflation-a-bigger-risk-to-india-than-europe-s-debt-woes-chakrabarty-says.html

          
          
             Inflation  is a bigger threat to
India’s economy than Europe’s debt crisis, said K.C.
Chakrabarty, a deputy governor at the central bank.  
 “For us, inflation is a bigger concern than Europe,”
Chakrabarty told reporters in New Delhi today after a report
yesterday showed the benchmark wholesale-price  inflation 
unexpectedly accelerated to 10.16 percent in May.  
 The comments come after the Reserve Bank of India signaled
last month it will place more weight on risks to growth as
Europe’s debt woes surfaced. Bonds fell as Finance Minister
Pranab Mukherjee said today Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will take
“appropriate” action to curb inflation.  
 The yield on the 10-year government bond rose seven basis
points from the day’s low to 7.66 percent at 4:05 p.m. in Mumbai
on concern the central bank will boost borrowing costs before
the next monetary policy decision scheduled for July 27.  
 “As and when the Reserve Bank feels appropriate steps are
required to be taken to control  inflation , they will do so,”
Mukherjee told reporters in New Delhi today. “Inflation is an
area of concern to all of us, particularly food inflation.”  
 The Reserve Bank has increased interest rates twice since
mid-March by a quarter percentage point each time. The benchmark
reverse repurchase rate is 3.75 percent.  
 Subir Gokarn, the deputy governor charged with advising
Subbarao on monetary policy, said on at least two occasions
since last month that the bank favors a gradual tightening of
borrowing costs as Europe’s problems threaten the global
economy.  
 “So far as the monetary part is concerned, surely, the
governor of the Reserve Bank of India will look into it,”
Mukherjee said in response to a question whether the RBI should
raise rates.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net 
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        