-- U.K. Inflation Slows for First Time in Three Months as Food, Travel Ease
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-06-15T08:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/inflation-slows-for-first-time-in-three-months-as-food-transport-decline.html

          
          
             U.K. inflation  slowed in May for the
first time in three months as lower costs of items from food to
transport eased price pressures in the economy.  
 Consumer prices rose 3.4 percent from a year earlier,
compared with 3.7 percent in April, the Office for National
Statistics said today in London. Economists predicted 3.5
percent, according to the median of 30 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey. Inflation has now exceeded the government’s 3
percent upper limit for three months.  
 The Bank of England last week kept up its emergency
stimulus for the economy to counter the drag on prices from the
aftermath of the recession.  Tesco Plc , the U.K.’s largest
supermarket chain, said today that domestic revenue barely grew
in the first quarter as it encountered “very low food
inflation” and shoppers balked at the prospect of higher taxes.  
 “The U.K. doesn’t have an underlying inflation problem,
and we could see  inflation  dip below 3 percent in July”
provided the government doesn’t raise sales tax, Peter Dixon, an
economist at Commerzbank AG in London, said in a telephone
interview. “The bank will leave its interest rate on hold until
at least the second quarter of 2011.”  
 The pound fell about 0.2 percent against the dollar after
the report, and traded at $1.4708 as of 9:41 a.m. in London. The
yield on the benchmark two-year government bond fell 3 basis
points today to 0.85 percent.  
 On the month, consumer prices climbed 0.2 percent, compared
with the median prediction for an 0.4 percent increase according
to 24 economists’ forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Transport, Alcohol  
 Lower prices of food, transport, alcohol, tobacco and
recreation offset higher fuel costs in May. Gasoline prices rose
to 120.5 pence ($1.78) per liter in the month, the highest since
records began in 1996, the statistics office said.  
 “Higher fuel costs have meant that customers have had to
shift some of their spending to petrol at the expense of their
normal shopping,” Tesco said in a statement today. “This,
combined with very low food inflation -- resulting from
unusually high levels in the same period last year --constrained
our ex-petrol like-for-like-sales growth.”  
 Core inflation, which excludes the cost of food, tobacco,
alcohol and energy prices, slowed to 2.9 percent from 3.1
percent the previous month, the statistics office said.  
 The inflation rate has now held above the bank’s 2 percent
target for a sixth month. Consumers’ expectations for price
increases in the coming year rose to the highest since 2008 in
May, a quarterly Bank of England survey showed. Britons
predicted inflation of 3.3 percent in the next 12 months, up
from 2.5 percent in February.  
 Inflation ‘Resilience’  
 Policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said June 13 that inflation
has shown “resilience” and “upward pressure” on price
expectations will present central bank officials with
“interesting debates” in the second half of the year as they
consider how long to maintain emergency stimulus.  
 Still, “the increase in inflation largely reflects
temporary effects and is likely to moderate as those effects
wane,” Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  said yesterday in the Bank
of England’s quarterly bulletin. “This spare capacity should
pull down on inflation.”  
 The central bank last week kept its bond-purchase plan at
200 billion pounds ($295 billion) and the benchmark interest
rate at a record low of 0.5 percent.  
 Retail price inflation, a measure of living costs used in
wage negotiations, slowed to 5.1 percent in May from 5.3 percent
the previous month, the statistics office said. Excluding
mortgage-interest payments it was also 5.1 percent, down from
5.4 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.K. inflation slowed in May for first time three months  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Tesco said that domestic revenue barely grew in the first quarter as it encountered 'very low food inflation'. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Tesco said that domestic revenue barely grew in the first quarter as it encountered 'very low food inflation'. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Neil Mackinnon, chief economist at VTB Capital Plc in London, talks about the pace of U.K. inflation and the outlook for economic growth.
     The government reported U.K. inflation slowed in May for the first time in three months to 3.4 percent from a year earlier, compared with 3.7 percent in April. Mackinnon speaks on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse With Andrea Catherwood." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
