-- Iranian Companies Win $21 Billion Orders to Develop South Pars Gas Field
-- Ladane Nasseri
-- 2010-06-15T08:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/iranian-companies-win-21-billion-orders-to-develop-south-pars-gas-field.html

          
          
             Iran awarded $21 billion of
contracts to local companies to develop six stages of the South
Pars gas field, the Oil Ministry’s website  Shana  reported.  
 Contracts for phases 13, 14, 19, 22, 23 and 24 were signed
earlier today between the state-owned National Iranian Oil Co.
and Iranian companies, the report said, without naming them.  
 The $21 billion value was provided by Iranian president
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who was at the signing ceremony in the
industrial hub of Assaluyeh, according to a state television
 report .  
 Iran’s plan to develop South Pars, the world’s largest
single natural-gas deposit which it shares with Qatar, have
faced delays amid United Nations sanctions over Iran’s nuclear
program that the U.S. and its Western allies accuse of being a
cover for developing atomic weapons. The U.S. has pushed
international companies to curb their investment in Iranian
industries in an effort to isolate the Persian Gulf country.  
 Oil Minister  Masoud Mir-Kazemi  said on June 5 that Iran
ended talks with Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Repsol YPF SA about
developing phases 13 and 14 of South Pars and will award the
rights instead to an Iranian group.  
 Khatam al-Anbiya Construction Headquarters, the engineering
arm of the Revolutionary Guard Corps,  is part of the domestic
group, as is Oil Industries Engineering and Construction and
Iran Marine Industrial Co., a report by state-run Mehr news
agency said last month.  
 The group also includes Iran Shipbuilding and Offshore
Industries Complex Co., Industrial Development and Renovation
Organization of Iran, and National Iranian Drilling Co., it said
on June 6.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        