-- Iran Says Proposed European Union Nuclear Sanctions Will Be `Ineffective'
-- Ladane Nasseri
-- 2010-06-15T10:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/iran-says-proposed-european-union-nuclear-sanctions-will-be-ineffective-.html

          
          
             Proposed European Union sanctions
over Iran’s nuclear program would be ineffective and may hurt
the countries that impose them, Iranian foreign ministry
spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast .  
 The sanctions “will not be effective at all,”
Mehmanparast said at a news conference today in Tehran aired on
television. “Resorting to restrictive measures and pressure
will receive its due response and will backfire.”  
 EU governments pledged yesterday to back the U.S. in
imposing curbs on Iran that go beyond the penalties laid down by
the United Nations Security Council last week. European
sanctions will target Iran’s oil and gas sector, clamping down
on investment and the transfer of advanced technologies, foreign
ministers from the bloc agreed.  
 “We now need to adopt accompanying and supporting measures
to the resolution,” EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton 
told reporters in Luxembourg yesterday. EU leaders are to
discuss details of the sanctions in Brussels on June 17.  
 Last week’s UN resolution called for curbs on financial
transactions with Iran, a tighter arms embargo and authority to
seize cargo potentially usable in nuclear weapons or missiles.
Three previous sets of UN sanctions have failed to stop Iran’s
uranium-enrichment program.  
 Passed by the Security Council on June 9 in a 12-2 vote
with one abstention, the resolution also freezes the assets of
40 companies, banks and government agencies, and bars foreign
travel by Javad Rahiqi, head of a branch of the Atomic Energy
Organization of Iran.  
 Civilian Projects  
 Iran says it is entitled, as a signatory to the nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty, to pursue civilian nuclear power
projects. The U.S. and its allies accuse the country of working
to develop the capacity to make atomic bombs.  
 “We are only seeking to execute our rights and will not
allow anyone to stop us from this,” Mehmanparast said. “Any
action limiting this and applying political pressure will make
us more resolute on this path.”  
 Ashton said she has contacted  Saeed Jalili , Iran’s nuclear
negotiator, to arrange a meeting on behalf of the UN powers. She
said that an offer of economic incentives to Iran “remains on
the table. Sanctions are not the endgame.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        