-- Israeli Inflation Likely Remained Unchanged at Upper Limit of Target Range
-- Alisa Odenheimer
-- 2010-06-15T09:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/israeli-inflation-likely-remained-unchanged-at-upper-limit-of-target-range.html

          
          
             Israeli  inflation  probably remained
stable in May at the upper limit of the government’s target
range.  
 The annual inflation rate was unchanged at 3 percent
according to the median estimate of 10 economists in a  Bloomberg
survey . Prices rose 0.4 percent from the previous month,
according to the survey. The Jerusalem-based Central Bureau of
Statistics will release the data today at 6:30 p.m.  
 Forecasters surveyed by the Bank of Israel are expecting
annual inflation to slow to 2.7 percent in the next 12 months,
the bank said in the minutes of its last rate-setting meeting
released on June 7. The government’s annual target range is 1
percent to 3 percent. The next meeting is on June 28.  
 “The biggest drivers of inflation have been housing and
fuel costs,” said  Yaniv Hevron , head of macro-strategy at Ramat
Gan, Israel-based Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd.
“Looking forward, inflation is likely to moderate, due to the
global slowdown and declining private consumption.”  
 Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  left the  benchmark
rate  unchanged last month at 1.5 percent, as Israeli economic
growth slowed and the European debt crisis threatened to derail
the global recovery.  
 The Israeli Finance Ministry lowered its growth forecast
for the year to 3.6 percent on June 6, citing the concerns over
sovereign debt in the European Union, Israel’s main export
market along with the U.S. Finance Minister  Yuval Steinitz  had
said a month earlier that growth was likely to be between 3.7
percent and 4.3 percent this year.  
 Higher Rates Unlikely  
 Even though inflation is at the upper limit of the target,
Fischer is unlikely to raise rates significantly, since rate
increases in the U.S. and Europe will be delayed longer than was
originally thought, Hevron said.  
 “He can’t open up an interest rate gap that is too large,
because this would strengthen the shekel and hurt exports,” he
said. Exports account for about half of Israel’s gross domestic
product.  
 Israel’s benchmark  TA-25 stock index  has surged about 30
percent in the past 12 months as the economy rebounded, led by
Delek Drilling-LP and Avner Oil & Gas Ltd., which more than
doubled. The two companies are partners in the Tamar gas field
off Israel’s coast.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        