-- Israeli Inflation Remains Within Government Target Range for Second Month
-- Alisa Odenheimer
-- 2010-06-15T17:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/israeli-inflation-remains-within-government-target-range-for-second-month.html

          
          
             Israel’s  inflation  rate was
unchanged in May, remaining within the government’s target range
for a second month.  
 Inflation held at 3 percent, the Jerusalem-based Central
Bureau of Statistics said today. The median  forecast  of 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 3 percent.  In the month ,
prices rose 0.4 percent.  
 Forecasters surveyed by the Bank of Israel are expecting
inflation to slow to 2.7 percent in the next 12 months, the bank
said in the minutes of its last rate-setting meeting released on
June 7. The government’s annual target range is 1 percent to 3
percent.  
 “The inflation trend is downward,”  Ayelet Nir , chief
economist at Tel Aviv-based IBI, which manages about 20 billion
shekels ($5.2 billion), said before the announcement. “The
slowing of domestic activity, if it continues, is likely to
moderate inflation pressures.”  
 The  Israeli economy  began to recover from the global crisis
in the second quarter of last year after contracting for the
previous six months. Growth unexpectedly slowed to an annualized
3.3 percent in the first quarter, from 4.8 percent in the
previous three months, as exports fell.  
 Governor  Stanley Fischer  left the benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 1.5 percent in April and May, citing slowing growth
and the debt crisis in Europe, one of Israel’s largest export
markets. Fischer raised the rate four times between August and
March as growth accelerated.  
 Housing Costs  
 Annual inflation was led by housing, which rose 4.8 percent
and by transportation and communications, which increased 5.9
percent. A large part of the increase in transportation costs
was due to a rise in fuel prices, Merav Yiftach, director of the
CPI division at the bureau, said in a briefing to reporters.  
 “Housing costs were higher than expected, and the best way
to treat this would be to raise interest rates,” said  Yaniv Hevron , head of macro-strategy at Ramat Gan, Israel-based
Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd. “The Bank of Israel
won’t rush to raise the rates, because this could hurt growth.”  
 Israel’s benchmark  TA-25  stock index rose about 30 percent
in the past 12 months, led by  Delek Drilling-LP  and Avner Oil &
Gas Ltd., which more than doubled. The two companies are
partners in the Tamar gas field off Israel’s coast.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        