-- Liverpool's Daniel Agger Says He Won't Be Part of Post-Benitez Exodus
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-06-15T10:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/liverpool-s-daniel-agger-says-he-won-t-be-part-of-post-benitez-exodus.html

          
          
             Liverpool’s Danish defender  Daniel Agger  said he’s committed to the English Premier League soccer
club no matter who replaces former manager  Rafael Benitez .  
 The 18-time English champion is looking for a coach after
parting with the Spaniard earlier this month. Several players,
including captain  Steven Gerrard  and striker  Fernando Torres ,
have been linked with other clubs following the team’s failure
to qualify for the Champions League next season.  
 “I’m not thinking about playing for anyone else,” Agger
said in an interview at Soccer City in Johannesburg yesterday
after his team was defeated 2-0 by the Netherlands in the World
Cup. “I have a four-year contract and I’m staying.”  
 Liverpool finished seventh last season, its worst position
in 11 years. The club’s American owners have put it up for sale
and a search for a new coach hasn’t yielded any results.  
 Benitez, now manager of European champion Inter Milan, has
been linked with an offer for Agger’s Liverpool teammate  Javier Mascherano . The Daily Mail reported the Argentina World Cup
captain is learning Italian.  
 U.K. press reports today said the first player to leave
Liverpool will be Israeli midfielder  Yossi Benayoun . The Times
said he’ll complete a 6-million-pound ($8.8 million) to Chelsea
in the coming days. Forward  Ryan Babel , winger  Albert Riera ,
defender  Philipp Degen  and goalkeeper Diego Cavalieri are also
likely to leave, the newspaper added.  
 Agger, signed by Benitez from Brondby in 2006, said he
hadn’t heard from the Spaniard since his departure. “I haven’t
spoken to him since it happened,” Agger said. “To be honest
I’m happy to be here and concentrating on the World Cup.”  
 In five years at Liverpool, Benitez won a European Cup and
an F.A. Cup. The team hasn’t won anything for four seasons.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        