-- Brazil Defeats North Korea 2-1 in World Cup; New Zealand Gets First Point
-- James Cone
-- 2010-06-15T22:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/ivory-coast-portugal-tie-0-0-in-opening-world-cup-game-in-port-elizabeth.html

          
          
             Brazil, the record five-time
champion, beat North Korea 2-1 in soccer’s World Cup last night,
while New Zealand tied Slovakia 1-1 for its first-ever point at
the tournament. Portugal and Ivory Coast had a scoreless tie.  
 Brazil, the only team to appear at all 19 World Cup
tournaments, won after second-half goals by Maicon and Elano in
Johannesburg. Ji Yun-Nam replied for the Koreans after 89
minutes.  
 Brazil tops Group G with three points after its first game,
with Portugal and Ivory Coast on one point each. Brazil coach
Dunga said his players had been nervous in the first half.  
 “We’re content with a 2-1 win but we wanted more,” Dunga
told reporters. “I’m not happy, and (goalkeeper)  Julio Cesar 
isn’t satisfied either that we let in a goal.”  
 All four teams in Group F have one point after Winston Reid
scored in the final seconds of injury time for New Zealand in
Rustenburg. Defending champion Italy and Paraguay tied 1-1 two
days ago.  
 Today, Honduras takes on Chile and European champion Spain
meets Switzerland in Group H matches, while host South Africa
plays Uruguay in Group A.  
 Brazil, the top-ranked team by soccer’s governing body
FIFA, dominated the early stages last night at Ellis Park, but
the  lowest-ranked team  in the tournament kept them at bay and
started to create opportunities on the break.  
 Brazil, driven forward by Robinho, was mainly restricted to
long shots, with Jong Tae-Se providing a threat for the Koreans,
playing at the World Cup for a first time since 1966 when they
got to the quarterfinals after beating Italy.  
 Resistance Ended  
 North Korea’s resistance was finally ended after 55
minutes, Maicon collecting the ball in the penalty area before
squeezing it past the goalkeeper at his near post.  
 Elano fired in the second goal on 72 minutes and Brazil
appeared to be coasting against a team ranked No. 105 by FIFA.
North Korea was, though, able to celebrate a goal just before
the end.  
 In Port Elizabeth,  Cristiano Ronaldo  came closest to
scoring for Portugal with a shot off the post in the opening
game in the group.  
 “It was the first game and all the players were a little
bit nervous,” Portugal coach  Carlos Queiroz  told reporters.
“It was not possible to play with a high level of risk when you
have 11 players in front of you.”  
 Ivory Coast striker  Didier Drogba  came on as a substitute
in the second half with a protective cast on his broken right
arm, drawing cheers from the crowd of 37,034 at Nelson Mandela
Bay Stadium. The injury was sustained in a warmup match against
Japan on June 4.  
 Drogba Chance  
 Drogba, who led England’s Premier League with 29 goals last
season, came on for Chelsea teammate  Salomon Kalou  in the 66th
minute. He had one late chance but couldn’t get a clear shot and
sent the ball across the front of the goal.  
 Portugal finished with two shots on target and the Ivory
Coast one.  
 “I am very happy with the performance,” Ivory Coast coach
Sven-Goran Eriksson said in a news conference. “Portugal have a
very good team and a lot of good football players but I think we
handled it well.”  
 Ivory Coast faces Brazil in the next Group G game on June
20, with Portugal taking on North Korea the following day.  
 Slovakia was on course for a win after  Robert Vittek  headed
Stanislav Sestak’s cross inside the left post in the 50th minute
in Rustenburg.  
 Then with time running down, Shane Smeltz sent a cross into
the Slovakia area and Reid, a defender who came forward, headed
past goalkeeper  Jan Mucha .  
 ‘Good Punches’  
 “I think the result tonight, it couldn’t get any better,”
New Zealand coach Ricki Herbert said at a news conference.
“We’ve never picked up a point in the World Cup. We’ve come out
and thrown some really good punches.”  
 New Zealand’s All Whites lost all three games in their only
other World Cup appearance in 1982. Slovakia was playing its
first World Cup game since the breakup of Czechoslovakia in
1993.  
 About 24,000 people attended the New Zealand-Slovakia
match.  
 “We’ve just won the World Cup,” Andrew Duncan, a 39-year-
old primary school teacher from Dunedin, New Zealand, said
afterwards.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Elano of Brazil celebrates scoring the second goal during the 2010 FIFA World Cup South Africa Group G match between Brazil and North Korea at Ellis Park Stadium in Johannesburg, South Africa. Photographer: Phil Cole/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
