-- J&J Expands January Recall to Add Benadryl, Tylenol
-- Meg Tirrell
-- 2010-06-15T22:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/j-j-s-mcneil-division-expands-january-recall-to-add-benadryl-tylenol-lots.html

          
          
             Johnson & Johnson , under
congressional investigation for a recall of children’s drugs,
said it is expanding a separate January withdrawal of over-the-
counter medicines to include lots that were “inadvertently
omitted from the initial recall.”  
 The drugmaker’s McNeil Consumer Healthcare unit is
recalling five product lots of Benadryl and Extra Strength
Tylenol in addition to those announced on Jan. 15, New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J said today in a statement.  
 J&J is being investigated by the U.S.  House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee  after pulling 40 types of children’s
medicines on April 30. The January recall, of 500 lots of drugs
including Rolaids, Motrin and some forms of Tylenol, was an
expansion of a recall of Tylenol Arthritis Pain caplets
announced in November 2009.  
 “This latest recall is further evidence that there are
wide-ranging problems at Johnson & Johnson,” Representative
 Edolphus Towns , a New York Democrat and chairman of the
oversight committee, said today in an e-mail. “I am troubled by
what we have learned so far in our investigation and this latest
development adds to my concern.”  
 Today’s recall involves four lots of Benadryl Allergy
Ultratab Tablets, 100 count, sold in the U.S., and one lot of
Extra Strength Tylenol Rapid Release Gels, 50 count, sold in the
U.S., Trinidad and Tobago, Bermuda and Puerto Rico, J&J said in
the statement.  
 J&J  shares  rose 72 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $59.14 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They have
dropped 8.4 percent since Jan. 15.  
 Consumer Complaints  
 The January recall was the result of consumer complaints of
a musty or moldy odor that has been linked to trace amounts of a
chemical called 2,4,6-tribromoanisole, or TBA, found on storage
pallets. The company received reports of nausea, vomiting and
diarrhea after use.  
 The U.S. Food and Drug Administration sent a warning letter
to J&J at the time, saying the drugmaker waited more than a year
to notify regulators after getting complaints that tainted
bottles of Tylenol sickened customers.  
 The medicine involved in that recall was made in J&J’s Las
Piedras, Puerto Rico, manufacturing facility. The children’s
medicines pulled this year were made in Fort Washington,
Pennsylvania. The FDA is investigating all McNeil operations,
and is closely monitoring J&J’s plan to correct its
manufacturing lapses,  Joshua Sharfstein , the agency’s principal
deputy commissioner, said in May. The company may face seizures
and criminal penalties, Sharfstein said.  
 Bonnie Jacobs , a spokeswoman for J&J, said the company had
no further comment beyond its statement today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        