-- Japanese Service Demand Advanced for First Time in Three Months in April
-- Aki Ito
-- 2010-06-15T23:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/japanese-service-demand-advanced-for-first-time-in-three-months-in-april.html

          
          
             Japan’s demand for services rose for
the first time in three months, a sign the economic recovery is
spreading to households.  
 The  tertiary index , which captures 63 percent of the
economy, advanced 2.1 percent from March, the Trade Ministry
said today in Tokyo. The median forecast of 21 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 2.5 percent increase.  
 Today’s report adds to evidence that the export-fueled
recovery is prompting consumers to spend. Employers increased
 pay  for a second month in April as they had staff work more
hours to keep up with growing demand, and consumer spending rose
in the first quarter.  
 “Stimulus boosts are likely to fade, leading to a slowdown
consumer spending” in coming months,  Akiko Kosugi , an economist
at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo, said before the
report. “But the pickup in employment and incomes” may help to
offset that, she said.  
 Demand for services increased in spite of cold weather that
depressed sales at retailers including  Fast Retailing Co. ’s
Uniqlo chain. The average temperature in Tokyo that month was
12.4 degrees Celsius (54 degrees Fahrenheit), 2 degrees lower
than the average for April, according to the Japan
Meteorological Agency.  
 The gains in paychecks are boosting  consumer confidence , a
sign that people may increase spending. Household sentiment in
May climbed to the highest level since October 2007 even as
Europe’s debt woes roiled markets across the globe.  
 Still, data on the  gross domestic product  from last quarter
show that the export-fueled rebound has yet to benefit the
country’s service providers. Household outlays on services
dropped for a third quarter in January through March while
spending on durable goods gained 4.6 percent.  
 Some of the stimulus programs that the government has
offered, including incentives for people to buy energy-efficient
electronics, are scheduled to expire this year. Starting this
month, the Democratic Party of Japan-led government will be
offering families a monthly allowance of 13,000 yen ($142) per
child.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        