-- Japan's 30-Year Government Bonds Decline as Recovery Signs Reduce Demand
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-06-15T07:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/japan-s-30-year-government-bonds-decline-as-recovery-signs-reduce-demand.html

          
          
             Japan’s  30-year bonds  declined as
stocks erased earlier losses and speculation increased that the
worldwide economic recovery will stay on track.  
 Demand for debt was limited before reports this week
forecast to show the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general
economic index rose and Japan’s tertiary industry index climbed
in April. The Bank of Japan held its key interest rate at 0.1
percent today at the end of a two-day policy meeting.  
 “Risk-on sentiment is still intact and bonds can be sold
anytime,” said  Tadashi Matsukawa , a manager of the fixed-
income division at PineBridge Investments Japan Co., which
manages the equivalent of $69 billion.  
 The yield on the 2.3 percent note maturing in March 2040
rose one basis point to 2.045 percent as of 4:31 p.m. in Tokyo
at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer
debt broker. The price declined 0.194 yen to 104.717 yen.  
 Ten-year yields fell one basis point to 1.22 percent. They
touched 1.245 percent on June 11, the highest since June 4. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Bond futures for September delivery rose 0.06 to 140.42 as
of the afternoon close at the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The Nikkei
225 Stock Average gained 0.1 percent.  
 Ten-year yields may gain to 1.4 percent by the end of
September, PineBridge’s Matsukawa said. Should his forecast
prove accurate, investors who buy the securities today will
incur a 1.2 percent loss, according to Bloomberg calculations.  
 “Ten-year yields around 1.20 percent are too low and not
attractive to investors,” Matsukawa said.  
 Economic Data  
 The Fed Bank of New York’s general economic index rose to
20 in June from 19.1 the previous month, according to a
Bloomberg survey before today’s report. Japan’s tertiary
industry index advanced 2.5 percent in April, according to
another Bloomberg survey before the data is released tomorrow.  
 Japan’s Ministry of Finance will sell 1.1 trillion yen
($12 billion) of 20-year bonds tomorrow. Primary dealers, which
are required to bid at government debt sales, often reduce
holdings of bonds in case prices decline before they can pass
on the new securities to investors.  
 “Investors are adjusting their positions before the
auction, pushing up long-term yields,” said  Katsutoshi Inadome ,
a strategist in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s largest banking group.
“Yields have become too low to encourage investors to buy. I’m
a little bit concerned about the auction.”  
 Bank of Japan  
 The BOJ will offer as much as 3 trillion yen in a new
credit program that will extend loans to companies for as long
as four years in an effort to strengthen the economic recovery.  
 The central bank will accept loan requests through March
2012, it said in a  statement  released today in Tokyo. New loans
will be extended at the  benchmark interest rate  of 0.1 percent.  
 “The BOJ is sending a message to the government that it’s
ready to support economic strategies with this program,” said
 Kyohei Morita , chief economist at Barclays Capital in Tokyo.
“It’s now up to the government to come up with specific
measures to make the program work.”  
 Shorter-maturity bonds gained after Moody’s yesterday cut
Greece’s ranking four steps to junk, citing “substantial”
risks to economic growth due to financial austerity measures.
Five-year yields dropped one basis point to 0.405 percent.  
 “Markets remain sensitive to developments in Europe as
there’s no consensus yet about how austerity measures will
affect nations in the region and their economies,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.
“The unclear outlook continues to prompt investors to seek
safer assets, keeping a lid on Japan’s bond yields.”  
 Moody’s said its lower rating for Greece “incorporates a
greater, albeit, low risk of default.” The Greek government
agreed to cut spending, raise taxes and trim wages to qualify
for a 110 billion-euro ($134 billion) aid package from the
European Union and the International Monetary Fund.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        