-- Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Rise on New York Output; Nissan Gains
-- Toshiro Hasegawa
-- 2010-06-15T23:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/japanese-australian-stock-futures-rise-on-new-york-output-nissan-gains.html

          
          
             Japanese and Australian  stock 
 futures  rose as growth in New York manufacturing stoked
expectations a recovery in the global economy will boost
corporate earnings.  
 American depositary receipts of  Nissan Motor Co. , which
counts North America as its biggest market, finished 3.4 percent
higher than the Tokyo close. Those of Advantest Corp., the
world’s largest maker of memory-chip testers, gained 3.6 percent
following a surge in the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index. ADRs
of  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s biggest mining company,
climbed 2.3 percent after commodity prices advanced.  
 “Shares have been sold too much, considering the outlook
for corporate earnings,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities
manager in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. “U.S.
manufacturing, supported by low interest rates and the buoyant
Chinese economy, are recovering steadily.”  
 Yen-denominated futures  on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average 
expiring in September closed at 10,035 in Chicago yesterday, 2
percent higher than 9,840 in Osaka. They were  bid  in the pre-
market at 10,040 as of 8:05 a.m. in Osaka. The Nikkei 225 closed
at 9,887.89 yesterday.  
 Futures on Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index  rose 1.5 percent.
New Zealand’s  NZX 50 Index  advanced 1.1 percent. Markets in
China, Hong Kong and Taiwan are closed for a national holiday.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  gained for a fourth day
yesterday with a 0.2 percent advance as analysts’ ratings
boosted shares of Japanese brokerages and automakers. The gauge
has fallen 11 percent from a 52-week high on April 15 on concern
mounting government deficits will deter some European nations
from shoring up their economies through spending.  
 Boeing Gains  
 The slump has driven down the average price of shares in
the gauge to 14.6 times estimated earnings, compared with 20.1
times at the beginning of this year.  
 The index’s September futures fell 0.2 percent today. In
New York, the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbed 2.4 percent
yesterday after the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said its
general economic  index  of manufacturing rose in June for an 11th
consecutive month. Boeing Co. jumped 4.1 percent after saying it
plans to boost production of its best-selling 737 jet.  
 The  Philadelphia Semiconductor Index  of 21 chip-related
companies soared 5.5 percent yesterday after Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. raised this year’s market
forecast. Global chip-industry sales will increase almost 30
percent this year, Morris Chang, chairman and chief executive
officer of the world’s largest contract manufacturer of chips,
said yesterday when most Asian markets were still open. This
compares with his April forecast of 22 percent growth.  
 Yen Weakens  
 Prospects for higher demand buoyed  oil prices  by 2.4
percent to $76.94 a barrel in New York yesterday, the highest
settlement since May 6. The  London Metals Index  advanced 0.7
percent.  
 The yen depreciated versus the euro to as much as 112.81
today from 111.73 at the 3 p.m. close of Tokyo stock trading
yesterday. A weaker yen boosts the value of overseas income at
Japanese companies when converted into their home currency.  
 KB Financial Group Inc., owner of South Korea’s biggest
lender, nominated Euh Yoon Dae as chairman to lead its efforts
to create a “mega bank” as the government sells stakes in
rivals. He discussed potential bids for Woori Finance Holdings
Co., KDB Financial Group Inc. and Korea Exchange Bank during
interviews with the directors, said Lim Suk Sig, who led the
selection process.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Toshiro Hasegawa  in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        