-- Juhayna Food Declines in Cairo After Raising $176 Million From Share Sale
-- Ola Galal
-- 2010-06-15T14:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/juhayna-food-declines-in-cairo-after-raising-176-million-from-share-sale.html

          
          
             Juhayna Food Industries , Egypt’s
biggest seller of packaged milk, dropped 6.9 percent in its
first day of trading after raising 1 billion Egyptian pounds
($176 million) in a share sale.  
 Juhayna sold 206 million new shares in a private placement
and initial public offering last week, the country’s first IPO
in two years and first new listing since private equity firm
Citadel Capital Corp. in December. Eighty percent of the sale
came through private placement and the rest from the IPO. The
shares fell to 4.34 pounds at the close. Earlier, they traded as
low as 4 pounds. The IPO shares were priced at 4.66 pounds each.  
 EFG-Hermes Holding SAE , the Cairo-based investment bank
that managed the sale, said June 10 it received 6.8 times more
orders for the public offering than shares it had available.
Juhayna will use the money to finance its product and export
market expansion plans, Juhayna said in its preliminary offering
circular. Family-run Juhayna controls almost 70 percent of
Egypt’s packaged milk market, the company said, citing Middle
East Marketing Research Bureau, a Cyprus-based data provider.  
 Juhayna is facing increasing competition from local and
international competitors looking to capitalize on Egypt’s shift
toward packaged foods. Saudi Arabia’s Almarai Co., the Middle
East’s largest dairy producer by market value, acquired Egypt’s
International Company for Agro Industrial Projects, known as
Beyti, through a joint-venture with PepsiCo in December.  
 Rising Competition  
 Nile Company for Food Industries, an Egyptian dairy and
juice producer known as Enjoy, was bought out in June by a
subsidiary of Citadel Capital, an Egyptian private equity firm
with $8.3 billion in assets.  
 A fire destroyed Juhayna’s largest yogurt factory in April,
and the company has filed an insurance claim for 299 million
Egyptian pounds, which it expects to cover the cost of
rebuilding if approved in full, according to the circular. The
company said it has lost “substantial market share in the
yogurt segment since the fire.”  
 Egypt’s  benchmark  index of stocks, EGX30, has dropped 17
percent from a 19-month high on April 27 on concern Europe’s
debt crisis will spread. The measure dropped 0.3 percent today
to 6,284.83 and has gained 1.2 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ahmed A. Namatalla  in Cairo 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        