-- Kazakh Leader Nazarbayev Gets Immunity, Power to Dictate Policy for Life
-- Nariman Gizitdinov
-- 2010-06-15T10:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/kazakh-leader-nazarbayev-gets-immunity-power-to-dictate-policy-for-life.html

          
          
             President  Nursultan Nazarbayev 
became Kazakhstan’s “leader of the nation,” with immunity from
prosecution for life and the power to dictate policy after
retirement, as a law that he refused to sign took effect.  
 Lawmakers in both houses of parliament unanimously voted to
grant Nazarbayev the title, which also makes his property and
that of his family inviolable. The president, who turns 70 in
July, refused to sign the law in an open letter and thanked his
supporters for the gesture.  
 Yet under Kazakh  law , bills that the president doesn’t sign
nevertheless become law within a month if he doesn’t send them
back to parliament to be reworked. The  law  was published today
in Kazakhstanskaya Pravda, the government’s newspaper of record.  
 Nazarbayev, who has ruled the former Soviet republic since
1989, won his most recent seven-year term in a 2005 election
that the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
said failed to meet “a number” of the organization’s
commitments and other international standards for democratic
elections. Kazakhstan chairs the OSCE this year. The Central
Asian country holds 3 percent of the world’s oil reserves,
according to BP Plc.  
 In 2007, Nazarbayev signed a law that exempted him from a
constitutional two-term limit. His Nur Otan party later won 88
percent of the vote in a parliamentary election and became the
only party in the Majilis, the lower house of parliament. The
president  appoints  about a third of lawmakers in the upper
house.  
 Another  law  published in Kazakhstanskaya Pravda today makes
it a crime punishable by as much as a year in prison publicly to
insult Nazarbayev. Defacing images of the “leader of the
nation” can also bring a one-year sentence.  
 Bank accounts belonging to Nazarbayev and his immediately
family were declared inviolable, along with his property, homes,
offices, vehicles, correspondence and means of communication.
Violations are punishable by as much as five years in prison.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nariman Gizitdinov  in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        