-- KB Financial Recommends Euh Yoon Dae as Chairman After Hwang's Forced Exit
-- Seonjin Cha
-- 2010-06-16T06:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/kb-financial-recommends-euh-yoon-dae-as-chairman-to-fill-leadership-vacuum.html

          
          
             KB Financial Group Inc. , owner of
South Korea’s biggest lender, nominated  Euh Yoon Dae  as chairman
to lead its efforts to create a “mega bank” as the government
sells stakes in rivals.  
 Euh, 65, was chosen unanimously by the 11-member board’s
nine external directors from among four candidates, the Seoul-
based company said, without naming the others. He will replace
Hwang Young Key, who quit under government pressure in September.  
 Euh, linked to the government as chairman of the
 Presidential Council of Nation Branding , will take over after
relations with the state soured under Hwang. He discussed
potential bids for Woori Finance Holdings Co., KDB Financial
Group Inc. and Korea Exchange Bank during interviews with the
directors, said  Lim Suk Sig , who led the selection process.  
 “The absence of a leader in the top post has stopped
strategic decision-making at a critical time of change,”  Kim Young Joon , head of equities at NH-CA Asset Management Co.,
which oversees the equivalent of $7.6 billion, including KB
Financial stock, said before the announcement. “The new
chairman will supply investors with guidance and that should
help ease the uncertainty.”  
 KB Financial  fell 2.8 percent to 49,750 won at the close of
trading in Seoul, compared with the benchmark Kospi index’s 0.9
percent gain.  Woori  Finance advanced 3.3 percent to 15,700 won,
its biggest gain since June 3.  
 Business Academic  
 Euh, who teaches business administration at Korea
University in Seoul, has a doctorate from the University of
Michigan and served on the Bank of Korea’s monetary policy
committee from 1992 to 1995, according to a profile provided by
his office. He was Korea University president from 2003 to 2006.  
 Euh was also a contender to run the nation’s central bank
before President  Lee Myung Bak  named  Kim Choong Soo  for the post
in March, the Dong-A Ilbo newspaper reported on Feb. 27.  
 President  Lee , like Euh a graduate of Korea University, was
elected in 2007 after pledging to boost economic growth,
increase financial deregulation and sell state assets. Since
Lee’s inauguration, the government has said that it plans to
privatize Korea Development Bank, Woori Finance and Incheon
International Airport Corp.  
 “The new chairman will need to boost efficiency at KB
Financial and diversify its business portfolio while improving
ties with the government,” said  Yoo Sang Ho , an analyst at LIG
Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. Yoo has a “hold” rating
on KB Financial.  
 ‘Mega Bank’  
 Acting Chairman  Kang Chung Won  told employees on April 2
the company should play a lead role in creating a “mega bank”
in South Korea. Hwang resigned on Sept. 29 under government
pressure to take responsibility for investment losses at Woori
Finance, which he led for three years starting March 2004.  
 South Korea is drawing up plans on how to sell its 57
percent stake in  Woori Finance . The sale could trigger
consolidation in the industry, with the Financial Services
Commission considering a merger of the company and one of its
rivals as an option for the privatization.  
 Meanwhile, Texas-based Lone Star Funds is selling its
controlling stake in  Korea Exchange Bank , South Korea’s sixth-
biggest lender, and state-run KDB Financial is planning an
initial share sale in 2011.  
 “Euh is known as an influential figure after serving
various government posts,” said NH-CA Asset’s Kim. “That’s a
key reason some investors believe he may be able to lead smooth
integration if KB tries to merge with Woori.”  
 Profit Boost  
 His appointment is subject to approval by shareholders at a
meeting on July 13, according to a statement from KB Financial
yesterday.  
 Euh will push hard to merge with Woori Finance and to
acquire KDB Financial, the  Maeil  Business Newspaper reported,
citing an interview with Euh conducted before his nomination. He
sees little benefit from buying Korea Exchange Bank, according
to the Korean-language report.  
 Euh hasn’t made any final decisions on takeovers, board
member Lim told Bloomberg News in a telephone interview.  
 The company and Woori Finance both posted  first-quarter
profit  that beat analysts’ estimates as an economic recovery
helped lower their bad-loan provisions. Net income at KB
Financial more than doubled to 572.7 billion won ($468 million)
in the three months ended March 31, from 238.3 billion won a
year earlier.  
 Acting Chairman Kang withdrew his candidacy to take on the
role permanently on Dec. 31 following reports that financial
authorities started an investigation into influence-peddling
allegations involving the company’s directors.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Euh Yoon Dae  
                       
                         
                           Presidential Council of Nation Branding via Bloomberg 
                         
                         An undated handout photograph shows Euh Yoon Dae, chairman of the Presidential Council of Nation Branding, provided to the media on June 16, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An undated handout photograph shows Euh Yoon Dae, chairman of the Presidential Council of Nation Branding, provided to the media on June 16, 2010. Source: Presidential Council of Nation Branding via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
