-- Kenya Shilling Snaps Longest Rally in 3 Months as Violence Mars Referendum
-- Sarah McGregor
-- 2010-06-15T10:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/kenya-shilling-snaps-longest-rally-in-3-months-as-violence-mars-referendum.html

          
          
             Kenya’s shilling snapped its longest
rally in three months versus the dollar after grenade explosions
at a rally to oppose the new constitution killed five people,
raising concern of violence before a referendum in August.  
 The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy weakened as
much as 0.7 percent to 81.18 to the dollar before trading 0.2
percent down at 80.75 as of 1:14 p.m. in the capital, Nairobi.  
 Kenyan police are hunting for suspects behind the bombings
at Uhuru Park in downtown Nairobi on June 13 that caused a
stampede in which 109 people were injured, Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  said yesterday.  
 “The sell-off is entirely related to the events of Sunday
and pure reaction to the heightened political risk,” Aly-Khan
Satchu, a Nairobi-based financial analyst, said by phone today.
The shilling is likely to hold at this level in the so-called
“near term,” he said, without specifying the period.  
 Religious leaders and politicians who led the rally reject
a clause in the draft constitution that stipulates women can
terminate pregnancies that pose a risk to their health and
another, which is also in the current document, that recognizes
Islamic courts.  
 The adoption of a new constitution is a key element of a
power-sharing accord decided in 2008 to end post-election
violence that killed 1,500 Kenyans and displaced another
300,000. It is meant to replace the current charter dating back
to the East African nation’s independence from Britain in 1963,
in which the president holds most power. The draft aims to
decentralize government decision-making and curb abuses of
authority by the state.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        