-- Kenyan Police Arrest Three Lawmakers for Hate Speech Before Referendum
-- Sarah McGregor
-- 2010-06-15T12:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/kenyan-police-arrest-three-lawmakers-for-hate-speech-before-referendum.html

          
          
             Kenyan police arrested three
lawmakers, including Assistant Roads Minister  Wilfred Machage ,
for hate speech amid a debate over changes to the constitution,
Police Commissioner Mathew Iteere said.  
 Supporters and opponents of the proposed constitution,
which will be put to a referendum on Aug. 4, are “propagating
hate speeches,” Iteere said in a statement handed to reporters
in the capital, Nairobi, today. The police will take “stern
action” against anyone found responsible, he said.  
 Five people were killed from a triple grenade attack and
subsequent stampede during a packed rally opposing the draft
charter on June 13 in central Nairobi. Police are hunting for
those behind the attack, Iteere said.  
 Adopting a new constitution is part of a power-sharing
accord signed in Kenya in 2008, which ended two months of post-
election violence that left 1,500 dead. Parliament approved the
draft document on April 1, leaving Kenyans with the final say in
August’s referendum.  
 The other two members of parliament that were charged with
hate speech are Fred Kapondi and Joshua Kutuny of Prime Minister
Raila Odinga’s Orange Democratic Movement. Machage, the
assistant minister, is a member of the Party of National Unity,
headed by President Mwai Kibaki.  
 Machage was unavailable when Bloomberg News called his
office today seeking comment.  
 Religious groups oppose a proposal in the new constitution
that permits women whose lives are endangered to end a pregnancy
and another clause, which is in the existing charter, that
recognizes informal Islamic courts.  
 Kenya’s shilling snapped its longest rally in three months
today, amid concern of violence before the vote. The currency of
East Africa’s biggest economy weakened as much as 0.7 percent to
81.18 to the dollar before trading 0.2 percent down at 80.75 as
of 2:48 p.m. in Nairobi.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        