-- Kerviel Tells Court SocGen Received Weekly Reports of His Trading Accounts
-- Carol Matlack
-- 2010-06-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/kerviel-says-socgen-superiors-received-weekly-reports-on-trading-accounts.html

          
          
             Jerome Kerviel  told a Paris court
that he sent weekly reports to his  Societe Generale SA  bosses,
bolstering his claims the bank knew about the scale of his
trades before they led to a 4.9 billion-euro ($6 billion)  loss .  
 Kerviel has based his defense since the loss was disclosed
on January 24, 2008, on the argument that his supervisors were
aware of, and encouraged, his activities.  
 Kerviel, 33, is charged with falsifying documents, computer
hacking and abuse of trust in connection with the trading loss
that prosecutors say was caused by the liquidation of 50 billion
euros in unauthorized positions. Current and former bank
employees have testified they didn’t know of his bets, which he
has told the court he “masked” by faking hedges and lying to
risk managers.  
 The treasury reports “to me represented a reflection of my
activities,” Kerviel told Judge Dominique Pauthe yesterday.
“Every week I made a report and sent it to  Eric Cordelle  and
 Martial Rouyere ,” his supervisors.  
 The treasury worked like a small bank for the traders,
Kerviel said. He borrowed billions to supplement the 20 million
euros he was allotted, based on his trading desk’s 125 million-
euro limit, and paid back interest, he said. “It was like an
internal loan,” he said.  
 In the summer of 2007, Kerviel said he borrowed 1 billion
to help while he was in a losing position, then, by July, he was
ahead again. “None of my superiors asked questions,” he said.
They “could see exactly what was in the treasury of each
trader.”  
 ‘Strong Rise’  
 Claire Dumas, deputy to the head of operational risk at
Societe Generale, said the fact that Kerviel reported such large
results wouldn’t necessarily raise suspicions. Markets “were on
a very strong rise” at the time, she said.  
 Moussa Bakir , formerly a futures broker at Newedge Group
who worked with Kerviel placing his bets on exchanges, said he
was “naive” in believing Kerviel’s assurances given the volume
of trades he was processing.  
 Bakir told the court he met Kerviel while he worked at
Societe Generale prior to joining Fimat, a Societe Generale
brokerage spun off in a merger with  Credit Agricole SA ’s Calyon.  
 Bakir said he wanted “good figures” going into the new
company and was pleased when Kerviel’s business with him grew.
“The volume grew, the orders grew, the commissions grew,” he
said. There was “nothing unusual to worry me.”  
 Million-Euro Bonus  
 Bakir got a 1 million euro bonus for 2007 based in part on
the surge in work for Kerviel. The bonus payment was frozen
after the trading loss and later awarded to Bakir by a labor
court, the former broker said.  
 When European futures exchange Eurex sent alerts to the
bank in November 2007 about Kerviel, Bakir said he knew nothing
about the letters, just that Kerviel “was worried.”  
 The Eurex letters were “requests for information,” said
Vincent Duclos, the Societe Generale compliance officer who
handled them. There “was never a question of an infraction.”  
 Duclos said he asked Kerviel and Cordelle to answer the
queries and sent back their response, which he said Kerviel told
him had been verified by the bank’s controllers. “I responded
with all the information I could get,” Duclos told the court
yesterday. “There wasn’t any reason to suspect” Kerviel.  
 Kerviel said he’d never said they’d been verified and
denied that he’d “manipulated” Duclos, saying “the artifice
was so crude” that it wouldn’t have stood up to Duclos’s review
had he checked.  
 ‘Market Manipulation’  
 Kerviel said his chief worry about the Eurex inquiries was
that regulators could accuse him of “market manipulation”
because of the large volumes he was trading, and that he could
lose his traders’ license. Still, he said he wasn’t worried
about Societe Generale’s reaction because “my positions were
largely positive for the bank.”  
 Bakir said he pressed Kerviel to know more about who he was
making the bets for and Kerviel told him they were for a client
named Matt who worked for a London hedge fund.  
 “He always spoke of Matt, he had just been on the phone
with Matt,” Bakir said. “I believed Jerome Kerviel without a
single doubt.”  
 Kerviel told the court he hadn’t said Matt was a client.
He’d used the name because Bakir “was insistent,” he said.  
 Taoufik Zizi , a junior trader who sat next to Kerviel on
the Delta One desk and was later fired for incompetence, said
the “star trader” asked to enter trades on his and other
traders’ computers using their log-in information.  
 Gains Made  
 Kerviel said “it was very often at the request of the
other traders that I would go onto their computers” and that he
never benefitted personally from gains made on those positions.  
 Societe Generale, France’s second-largest bank by  market
value , blames Kerviel for the loss and has asked the court to
award it the full 4.9 billion euros in damages.  
 Carlos Goncalves, deputy chief information officer at
the lender, testified that Kerviel’s activities were more
difficult to track than the defense has argued.  
 “Without knowing precisely what you’re looking for,”
Goncalves said, “it would be impossible to have a global
vision” of the problem.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
 Carol Matlack  in Paris at 
 carol_matlack@businessweek.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jerome Kerviel, a former trader for Societe Generale, claims the bank knew about the scale of his trades. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
