-- BP, Kerviel, Madoff, Transocean, J&J in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-06-15T11:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/kerviel-qatari-diar-j-j-deutsche-telekom-aerospatiale-in-court-news.html

          
          
               BP Plc , whose potential liability
for the  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill has lawmakers and analysts
raising the specter of bankruptcy, would be unlikely to avoid
paying claims by seeking court protection, Bloomberg News’
Margaret Cronin Fisk and Linda Sandler reported after speaking
with restructuring experts.  
 The spill, the worst in U.S. history, threatens wetlands,
wildlife, fishing and tourism in five states. BP has spent more
than $1.43 billion to stop the leak and clean it up, and to
compensate local businesses and residents since the April 20
explosion of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig.  
 The company faces more than 200 lawsuits, and the U.S. is
assessing the cost of restoring natural resources destroyed or
fouled by the spill. BP’s liabilities include $37 billion in
cleanup and potential litigation expenses, according to a June 2
Credit Suisse report. While a U.S. bankruptcy may halt many
claims, it wouldn’t allow BP to avoid paying for most of the
cleanup and damages, said  New York  bankruptcy lawyer Martin
Bienenstock of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP.  
 “It’s highly unlikely the claims would be so large that BP
would pay any valid claims less than in full,” said
Bienenstock, who advised General Motors Co. and Chrysler
Financial Corp. in their bankruptcies. “The environmental
claims and other claims would all ride through bankruptcy and be
paid in the normal course.”  
 BP said it won’t seek court protection. “We categorically
deny those rumors,” said David Nicholas, a company spokesman.  
 “The bankruptcy option is clearly there,” said John
Olson, managing partner of Houston Energy Partners, a hedge fund
unit of  Sanders Morris Harris Group Inc . “BP’s board and CEO
can say they’ve ruled it out, but you can’t rule it out,
realistically.” Olson doesn’t hold any BP shares.  
 On June 13, White House Adviser David Axelrod called on BP
to establish an escrow account for claims tied to the spill.
U.S. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid requested that the
London-based company set up a $20 billion fund administered by
an independent trustee, according to a letter from his office.  
 The Obama administration should consider placing the
company in receivership to preserve its assets because BP is
likely to end up in bankruptcy, said Representative Steve Cohen,
a Tennessee Democrat. Louisiana State Treasurer John Kennedy
agreed, saying bankruptcy is a possibility and state and federal
governments need to plan for it. The spill has sullied or
threatened the coastlines of Louisiana, Alabama, Mississippi,
Florida and Texas.  
 For more, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Kerviel Tells Court He Didn’t Try to Evade SocGen Trade Limits  
   Jerome Kerviel  told a Paris court that he didn’t try to
evade controls at  Societe Generale  SA during a trial over his
role in unauthorized trades that cost the bank 4.9 billion euros
($6 billion).  
 Kerviel said his objective in faking hedges was to carry
his real positions forward, “to be able to realize a gain for
the bank.” Kerviel, 33, is charged with falsifying documents,
computer hacking and abuse of trust in connection with the 2008
trading loss at France’s second-largest bank by market value.  
 Judge Dominique Pauthe read a series of Kerviel’s trades
indicating that his positions rose from 2.4 billion euros in
April 2007 to 14.4 billion euros in November of that year. While
he said he never explicitly told his supervisors about the
trades, Kerviel said the scope of his trades bolstered his
claims that the bank knew about his activities.  
 “Did I get up one day and say I’ll go see a manager and
tell him I’ve got 30 billion euros? The answer’s no,” Kerviel
said.  
 As his positions grew larger, Kerviel said he was in a
“spiral” and changed records on bank computers.  
 Kerviel testified he entered the bank’s computerized
control systems to alter details of some transactions, saying he
did so to be sure the risk for each was accurately recorded. He
denied that he altered data in another system, saying he didn’t
have the log in information.  
 “A lot of false things have been said,” Kerviel
testified. “Traders didn’t have access to the back office
control system.”  
 Claire Dumas, a risk controller who is testifying on behalf
of the bank, said Kerviel used friendships he made during the
years he worked with the compliance and control group to avoid
closer review of his actions.  
 For more of yesterday’s trial, click here.  
 For today’s coverage, click here.  
 Qatari Diar Hid E-Mails, Let Witnesses Lie, CPC Says  
 Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co., part of the
emirate’s sovereign-wealth fund, deleted e-mail evidence and let
witnesses lie during a trial over a botched deal to build luxury
apartments at  London ’s  Chelsea Barracks , U.K. developer CPC
Group Ltd. told a judge.  
 Qatari Diar “deliberately destroyed” relevant e-mails
while its law firm, Herbert Smith, failed before last month’s
trial to search a server in London that held messages deleted
from one in Doha, CPC lawyer Anthony Stephen Grabiner said. The
new messages support CPC’s claim that Qatari Diar isn’t being
truthful about why it abandoned the luxury development, he said
at a hearing yesterday at the High Court in London.  
 “All these witnesses lied to you and I when they gave
evidence,” and were motivated by a need to conceal the true
reason for backing out of the real-estate deal, Grabiner said at
the hearing. CPC, controlled by real-estate entrepreneur
Christian Candy, claims the emir of Qatar instructed the company
to abandon the development.  
 CPC sued for breach of contract in November claiming Qatari
Diar must pay as much as 81 million pounds ($119.8 million) for
backing out of the deal. Qatari Diar claims it owes nothing
because no value was created at the site.  
 Judge Peter Smith said yesterday the new e-mails wouldn’t
prevent him from reaching a judgment before the end of July.  
 Joe Smouha, Qatari Diar’s lawyer from Essex Court Chambers,
said in a June 9 court filing that the rapid pace of the trial
led to the late discovery of the e-mails.  
 Herbert Smith  declined to comment on the Qatari case.  
 The case is CPC Group Ltd. v. Qatari Diar Real Estate
Investment Company, case no. 4260/09, High Court of Justice,
Chancery Division (London).  
 For more, click here.  
 Investor Suits Against Drugmakers Get Court Scrutiny  
 The U.S. Supreme Court said it will consider tightening the
requirements for lawsuits that accuse drugmakers of failing to
tell investors about indications that top-selling drugs have
dangerous side effects.  
 The justices yesterday said they will hear an appeal from  Matrixx Initiatives Inc ., a drugmaker accused in a suit of not
disclosing evidence that its now-withdrawn Zicam cold remedy
could cause users to lose their sense of smell. The Scottsdale,
Arizona, company argues that drugmakers don’t have a duty to
disclose reports of side effects until those reports become
statistically significant.  
 A federal appeals court let the lawsuit against Matrixx go
forward, saying statistical significance isn’t an absolute
requirement for filing a suit against a drugmaker under the
federal securities laws. Matrixx stopped selling its Zicam nasal
spray and gel in June 2009 after the Food and Drug
Administration warned consumers the treatments may cause a loss
of smell.  
 The suit contends that the company had indications of a
problem years earlier, including lawsuits filed on behalf of
nine people from October 2003 to January 2004. The investor suit
seeks class-action status on behalf of people who bought Zicam
from Oct. 22, 2003, to Feb. 6, 2004.  
 The justices will hear arguments in their 2010-11 term,
which starts in October.  
 The case is Matrixx Initiatives v. Siracusano, 09-1156.
U.S. Supreme Court   Washington ).  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 Madoff Feeder Fund Claims Should Be Denied, SIPC Tells Court  
 Investors who put money in  hedge funds  that fed money to  Bernard Madoff ’s business should be denied claims for repayment
because they weren’t direct customers of the con man’s firm, the
Securities Investor Protection Corp. said in a bankruptcy court
filing.  
 The government-chartered agency overseeing the liquidation
of Madoff’s business asked a U.S. Bankruptcy judge in Manhattan
to uphold the decision of trustee Irving Picard to deny claims
by investors in 16 funds.  
 Almost 8,500 investors whose money was placed with Madoff
indirectly through so-called feeder funds had their claims for
repayment denied by Picard in December because they weren’t
linked to Madoff accounts. Those victims, who invested in funds
run by New York-based Fairfield Greenwich Group, investment
manager J. Ezra Merkin’s Gabriel Capital Corp., and Bermuda-
based Kingate Management Ltd., among others, objected to the
ruling.  
 “The hedge funds, not the claimants, were the customers of
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities,” lawyers for SIPC said
in the June 11 filing.  
 Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty in March and is serving a 150-
year sentence for running the world’s biggest Ponzi scheme.  
 David Molton, an attorney for the liquidator of Fairfield
Lambda Ltd., a shareholder of Fairfield Sentry Ltd., which was a
direct customer of Madoff, didn’t return a call seeking comment
after regular business hours yesterday.  
 The case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Transocean Can’t Stall U.S. Spill Claims, Judge Says  
   Transocean Ltd . can’t use a 159-year-old law to stall
claims by the U.S. or state governments over the Deepwater
Horizon oil spill, a federal judge in Houston said.  
 Transocean asked U.S. District Judge Keith Ellison in May
to limit its liability for damages caused by the spill in the
Gulf of Mexico to the value of the rig’s unpaid drilling rental
fees, about $27 million. Ellison ordered a stay on claims
against Transocean, owner of the Deepwater Horizon, until after
he ruled on the company’s cap request.  
 The stay doesn’t apply to claims by the U.S., state or
tribal governments brought under the federal Oil Pollution Act
or to U.S. claims under other federal environmental laws,
Ellison said yesterday.  
 The U.S. asked Ellison June 1 to rule the cap, stemming
from the Limitation of Liability Act of 1851, didn’t apply to
government claims. That law is pre-empted by the Oil Pollution
Act of 1990, the U.S. said. Transocean last week agreed that the
requested cap in the 1851 law wouldn’t apply to environmental
losses by the U.S. and Gulf Coast states.  
 The case is In Re the Complaint and Petition of Triton
Asset Leasing GmbH, Transocean Holdings LLC, 10-01721, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  
 Ex-Hevesi Adviser Got $19 Million in Fees, Cuomo Says  
 The indicted chief political adviser to ex-New York state
Comptroller Alan Hevesi pushed $5 billion in state pension-fund
transactions to make $19 million in fees for himself, said New
York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo.  
 Cuomo made the statement in a court filing in reply to
Henry “Hank” Morris’s bid to dismiss a 2009 indictment
charging him with securities fraud and grand larceny in
connection with corruption at the state pension fund. Morris
said in his March motion to throw out the charges that his use
of access and influence didn’t constitute a crime.  
 Morris’s “scheme was not just about obtaining access and
influence,” Cuomo said in his 206-page response in New York
State Supreme Court. “Rather, he used lies, deceit and self-
dealing to promote more than five billion dollars worth of
public pension fund securities transactions that would line his
own pockets with $19 million in fees.”  
 Morris reaped the $19 million through 23 state pension-fund
investments for which he acted as an undisclosed placement
agent, or middleman, Cuomo said. The proceeds from the scheme
exceeded $35 million, including amounts received by associates,
Cuomo said. The scheme was maintained through hundreds of
thousands of dollars in bribes and rewards for public officials
and their friends, Cuomo said.  
 Six people have pleaded guilty to criminal charges in the
probe, including Morris’s co-defendant, David Loglisci, former
chief investment officer at the pension fund. Fifteen firms have
settled and agreed to a code of conduct drafted by Cuomo that
bans so-called placement agents from obtaining investments from
public pension funds and limits campaign contributions to those
with the power to assign investment business.  
 Morris is accused by Cuomo of corrupting the investment
process at the pension fund to favor deals for which he and
associates would earn fees and those who made campaign
contributions to Hevesi. He allegedly concealed from key
decision makers that he was receiving fees on proposed deals.
Loglisci acknowledged in his guilty plea that he ceded control
of the fund’s alternative investments to Morris.  
 Morris’s lawyer,  William Schwartz , was unavailable for
comment.  
 Hevesi hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing in the case.  
 People v. Morris, 0025/2009, New York State Supreme Court,
New York County (Manhattan).  
 J&J Wins Dismissal of Pennsylvania’s Risperdal Case  
   Johnson & Johnson  persuaded a judge to throw out the state
of Pennsylvania’s suit alleging the drugmaker hid health risks
of its Risperdal antipsychotic drug and duped regulators into
paying millions more than they should have for the medicine, a
company official said.  
 Judge Frederica Massiah-Jackson in Philadelphia yesterday
granted Johnson & Johnson’s request to throw out the suit after
finding the state’s lawyers hadn’t produced enough evidence the
company improperly marketed Risperdal to continue a trial over
the claims,  Greg Panico , a company spokesman, said in a
telephone interview. The state’s lawyers presented a week’s
worth of testimony to jurors before Massiah-Jackson halted the
trial.  
 “We are pleased with the judge’s decision that the
evidence presented failed to show” a unit of New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based J&J defrauded the state in connection with
Risperdal sales, Panico said.  
 The Pennsylvania case was the first of 10 lawsuits over
J&J’s Risperdal marketing practices filed by states to go before
a jury.  
 Attorneys for the state are still studying Massiah-
Jackson’s ruling, Camp Bailey, one of the lawyers representing
Pennsylvania, said in an e-mailed statement. “It’s likely we
will file an appeal,” he added.  
 The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Janssen
Pharmaceutica Inc., 002181, Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas
(Philadelphia).  
 Ex-Deutsche Telekom Officials Not Charged in Spy Case  
 Former  Deutsche Telekom AG  Chairman Klaus Zumwinkel and
former Chief Executive Officer Kai-Uwe Ricke won’t be charged in
a probe over spying on journalists and board members at  Europe ’s
largest phone company.  
 Prosecutors in Bonn don’t have enough evidence to prove
Ricke and Zumwinkel’s knew about reviews of phone data at
Deutsche Telekom at the time they took place,  Friedrich Apostel ,
a spokesman for prosecutors, said yesterday. Charges will be
filed against four people, including a former security manager
at Deutsche Telekom and the head of a private security company.  
 “People will say that we are hanging the small guys here
and allowing the big ones to go free,” said Apostel. “That’s
totally inappropriate. The law requires us for good reason to
exactly prove any allegation or drop the case.”  
 Prosecutors have been looking into allegations that
Deutsche Telekom hired a company to study phone records of
journalists, executives and supervisory board members to find
the sources of news leaks. Prosecutors searched offices of
Deutsche Telekom and its T-Mobile unit in May 2008. The homes of
Ricke and Zumwinkel were raided 10 months later.  
 The decision to drop the case is “delightful,” Zumwinkel
said in a statement. The decision was expected, Ricke said in a
separate statement. He said he never knew that illicit methods
were used and he never asked anyone to employ such methods.  
 Deutsche Telekom, which is seeking damages of 1 million
euros ($1.2 million) each from Ricke and Zumwinkel, “has to
accept the decision,” said Mark Nierwetberg, a spokesman for
the Bonn-based company.  
 Reinhard Kowalewsky, one of the journalists who was spied
on, said he may appeal yesterday’s decision.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 Aeropostale Ex-Merchandising Chief Charged With Fraud  
   Aeropostale Inc .’s former merchandising chief, Christopher
Finazzo, was accused by federal prosecutors of conspiring to
overcharge the teen clothing retailer on purchases from a vendor
and sharing in the proceeds.  
 Finazzo, 54, acted with Douglas Dey, the owner of South Bay
Apparel Inc., a company based in Calverton, New York that sold
clothing to Aeropostale, according to an indictment by the U.S.
attorney in Brooklyn, New York. They were charged with mail and
wire fraud and money laundering conspiracy. Finazzo was also
charged with making a false statement in a regulatory filing.  
 Aeropostale had no knowledge of the scheme, according to
the indictment, which was unsealed June 11 and made public
yesterday.  
 “Finazzo’s lies and material omissions prevented the SEC
and Aeropostale’s shareholders from learning the full extent of
Finazzo’s compensation from the undisclosed related party
transactions,” according to the indictment.  
 Finazzo pleaded not guilty to the charges on June 11 and
was released on $3 million bail, his attorney Robert Zito said
in a telephone interview. “We are hoping to get a speedy
resolution with the government,” he said.  
 A lawyer for Dey couldn’t be reached for comment.  
 Aeropostale said it fired Finazzo in November 2006 for
violating his employment contract and the company’s code of
ethics by not disclosing his affiliations with South Bay.  
 Aeropostale spokesman Kenneth Ohashi didn’t return a call
and e-mail seeking comment.  
 The case is U.S. v. Finazzo, 10cr00457, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here. For the latest verdict and
settlement news, click here.  
 Litigation Departments  
 Cuomo, Would-Be Governor, Gets Tough When Foes Say No  
 New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo, the Democratic
candidate for governor who has challenged legislators to join
his plan to clean up state government, has a history of getting
what he wants.  
 Quadrangle Group LLC, the New York-based money management
firm co-founded by Steven Rattner, was among the latest to
experience Cuomo’s style of conflict resolution. When Rattner
declined to settle on Cuomo’s terms in the probe of his role in
state pension fund corruption, the would-be governor made
Rattner pay a price.  
 The settlement, publicly announced on April 15, included a
 statement  by Quadrangle disavowing its former leader and
asserting that Rattner’s conduct in gaining $100 million in fund
business was “inappropriate, wrong and unethical.” The
statement  originated with Cuomo’s office, which required New
York-based Quadrangle to make it in order to settle, according
to two people familiar with the matter.  
 Voters have made Cuomo the frontrunner for governor in the
latest polls, embracing such tough tactics, which some legal
ethics experts have criticized.  
 Cuomo spokesman John Milgrim declined to comment on the
Rattner probe because it’s still active. Andy Merrill, a
spokesman for Quadrangle, which didn’t admit wrongdoing,
declined to comment. Rattner, who resigned during Cuomo’s probe
as the Obama administration’s chief adviser on restructuring the
auto industry, declined to comment.  
 To read more, click here.  
 For the latest litigation department news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        