-- King Inherits UAW Pushing for Payback From Bailout Concessions
-- Jeff Green
-- 2010-06-15T14:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/king-inherits-uaw-pushing-for-payback-after-cuts-of-up-to-30-000-a-worker.html

          
          
             Bob King , the next  United Auto
Workers  leader, inherits a union that gave up thousands of jobs
and billions in benefits to save the U.S. auto industry. His
legacy will rest on how workers are rewarded in the recovery.  
 King, 63, the nominee of the UAW bloc that has controlled
the Detroit-based union since 1946, is slated to succeed two-
term President  Ron Gettelfinger , 65, in an election tomorrow.
The electrician with a law degree, who rose through the ranks in
40 years at the UAW, is set to take over a union that has
declined to 355,000 members from 1.5 million in 1979.  
 The UAW shift coincides with signs of recovery in the
industry. General Motors Co. posted a net profit and Chrysler
Group LLC made money on an operating basis in the first quarter,
less than a year after each emerged from bankruptcy. The union
helped convince President  Barack Obama  to provide an $85 billion
taxpayer bailout to those automakers, taking concessions to put
their labor costs on par with foreign automakers’ U.S. plants.  
 “Bob is facing a very, very difficult job because there
will be tremendous pressure on him to roll back the
concessions,” said  Gary Chaison , a labor professor at Clark
University in Worcester, Massachusetts. “He’s got to walk a
very fine line to reverse some of what was lost and keep some in
place for the promise of a brighter future.”  
 UAW workers have each given up $7,000 to $30,000 in
concessions in the last five years, King said last month. The
union surrendered raises, bonuses, cost-of-living adjustments
and agreed to a two-tier wage system where new hires make about
$14 an hour, half what hourly production workers are now paid.  
 Returning Benefits  
 As head of the union’s bargaining with  Ford Motor Co.,  King
filed a grievance in January after the automaker reinstated
raises, 401(k) matches and tuition assistance for salaried
workers. Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford has since restored
tuition benefits for its 41,000 hourly workers and King is
pressing for more.  
 “UAW members at GM, Ford and Chrysler and throughout the
supplier sector have made the sacrifices to keep these companies
viable,” King said at a Ford factory in Ypsilanti, Michigan, on
May 24. He declined to be interviewed for this story.  
 UAW labor costs, including wages and benefits, have fallen
from $75 an hour to about $55, equal to  Toyota Motor Corp. ’s
U.S. workers. The union has about 113,000 members at Detroit-
based GM, Ford and Chrysler, which is based in Auburn Hills,
Michigan.  
 “Bob’s going to make sure our members are not forgotten as
these companies rebound,” said UAW director Rory Gamble, who
runs King’s former Detroit region and has known him 25 years.
“But we’ve got to make sure these companies are viable, so
there’s going to be a lot of caution in how we go after this.”  
 ‘Vilified’ Union  
 Part of the caution will stem from managing the UAW’s
public standing. “The current perception of the UAW is one of
the lowest of any union in America,” said analyst  David Cole  of
the  Center for Automotive  Research in Ann Arbor, Michigan.  
 A so-called jobs bank in which auto workers received almost
full pay while on indefinite layoff “became the flag by which
the union was vilified,” Cole said. The union doesn’t receive
credit for giving up that jobs bank or other reforms, he said.  
 “Bob has to get out front and tell the world it’s a
different union than it used to be,” Cole said. “Otherwise, it
will continue to decay.”  
 King, the son of a former Ford industrial relations
director, has been painted by challengers in the union as going
too easy on the company. More than 70 percent of Ford workers
rejected additional concessions in November that King endorsed.
 Ford earned  $2.7 billion last year after three years of losses.  
 Critics in Union  
 “We can’t just take at face value when these companies cry
poverty,” said  Gary Walkowicz , a UAW official from King’s home
factory in Dearborn,  who is making a self-described symbolic
run against him for president. “Workers really disagreed with
giving up those concessions when Bob King asked them. It showed
there’s a disconnect between the membership and the
leadership.”  
 In the next round of contract bargaining in 2011, King has
to work toward restoring raises while ensuring the automakers
put new models into U.S. factories, said  Sean McAlinden ,
economist at the Center for Automotive Research.  
 “As the market comes back, the automakers will be adding
workers by the thousands,” McAlinden said. “If he holds the
line on canceling too many concessions, he’ll get growth.
Otherwise, the companies will say, ‘We’ll build up Mexico like
you wouldn’t believe.’”  
 Business Case  
 King prepares business cases to show managers that hiring
more workers at UAW plants can be profitable, said Bernie Ricke,
president of UAW Local 600 in Dearborn, who has been at the Ford
bargaining table beside King since 2003. “He’s usually very
measured, though I’ve seen him pound the table a few times.”  
 Billionaire investor  Wilbur Ross  negotiated against King on
a contract for his International Automotive Components Group,
the world’s largest automotive carpet supplier. King studied
IAC’s books and discussed findings with managers before bringing
the information to union leaders and rank and file members. The
new contract, which cut pay and benefits, passed by 80 percent.  
 “He’s the prototype for the kind of labor leader who is
needed in this modern world,” Ross said in an interview. “His
challenge is to preserve manufacturing in the United States at
the same time maintaining a standard of living for the worker.
It’s a delicate balance.”  
 King last year approached Ross for help in organizing auto
suppliers to support the U.S. cash for clunkers program that
funded government subsidies for vehicle trade-ins. They built a
coalition of about 50 suppliers across the U.S., and the program
eventually helped sell 677,081 cars.  
 From the Sickbed  
 King comes to the table with an “intense” work ethic,
Gamble said. He’s been seen working two mobile phones at a time
in Ann Arbor, where he lives with his wife and three children.
(He also has two adult daughters from his first marriage). The
night before stomach surgery last year, King called Gamble from
his hospital bed at 11:30 p.m. to check on Ford’s plans to
transfer workers among plants. After surgery King was right back
on the phone, hoarse from a tube in his trachea, Gamble said.  
 “He could barely talk and I said, ‘Bob you need to get
well, man,’” Gamble said. “He was relentless.”  
 He took a similar approach to his schooling. After
studying religion and philosophy at College of the Holy Cross in
Worcester, King graduated from the University of Michigan in
1968 with a degree in political science. He did a two-year tour
in Korea with the U.S. Army and then went to work for Ford in
1970 at the Rouge factory complex in Dearborn that Henry Ford
built in the 1920s. In 1972, King began an electrician
apprenticeship while earning a law degree in his off-hours.  
 Rapid Rise  
 “While he was still an apprentice, the journeyman skilled
tradesmen elected him as their union committeeman, which was
unheard of,” Ricke said. “He had to work weekends to finish
his apprenticeship.”  
 Raised Catholic, King draws a link between the labor
movement’s mission and social justice. At a UAW convention in
California in 1989, he bused reporters to a shanty town in
Tijuana, Mexico, to show them the squalor surrounding U.S.
companies’ border factories. He took a group of labor leaders to
El Salvador in 1990 to monitor union elections.  
 King’s greatest challenge may be finding a way to build on
his earlier efforts to increase the  UAW’s ranks . While leading
bargaining efforts a decade ago, he helped diversify the
membership by organizing graduate students and casino workers.  
 Johnson Controls  
 King also led a strike at  Johnson Controls Inc.  in 2002
where he convinced the supplier to sign a neutrality agreement
allowing the union to organize its other U.S. plants. Ford, one
of JCI’s largest customers, also said it wouldn’t object to the
UAW representing workers at the auto supplier. That set a
precedent that enabled the UAW to sign up 25,000 auto parts
workers that year, according to labor professor  Harley Shaiken 
of the University of California at Berkeley.  
 “Bob King leveraged the good relationship the UAW had with
Ford into a broader reach with its suppliers,” Shaiken said.
“It was innovative and strategic.”  
 King also reaches out to other unions seeking new
strategies for signing up members.  
 “He actually believes in grassroots organizing, which I
think came from our organizing backgrounds,” said  Leo Gerard ,
president of the United Steelworkers union, who consults with
King on strategies for boosting membership and considers him
soft-spoken but “tough as nails.”  
 About 350,000 of the 850,000 Steelworkers in the U.S.,
Canada and the Caribbean work on products that end up in autos.  
 The UAW can’t keep shrinking and expect to hold the clout
that moved a president to rescue GM and Chrysler, Shaiken said.  
 “He’s facing an unprecedented crisis; the status quo is
not tenable,” Shaiken said. “To survive the union has to go
forward, and Bob needs to be a transformational leader.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Detroit at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       King inherits UAW pushing for payback  
                       
                         
                           Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Incoming president of the United Auto Workers union Bob King. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Incoming president of the United Auto Workers union Bob King. Photographer: Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
