-- Natural Gas Jumps in U.K. Second-Quarter Record: Energy Markets
-- Ben Farey
-- 2010-06-16T17:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/natural-gas-jumps-in-u-k-heads-for-record-second-quarter-energy-markets.html

          
          
             U.K. natural-gas is headed for its
biggest second-quarter rally as European buyers drain fuel at a
record pace and North Sea production wanes.  
 Gas for next-month delivery has gained 48 percent since the
end of March on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London, where
the contracts began trading in 1997. The commodity’s next best
second quarter was in 2000, when prices rose 45 percent.  
 Exports to Europe through a pipeline linking Britain to  Belgium  jumped to the highest level in more than six years, as
industries store up for winter, according to the operator
Interconnector (U.K.) Ltd. The increase follows a record 14
percent drop in North Sea output last year caused by dwindling
reserves,  Department of Energy and Climate Change  data show.  
 “Continental buyers are able to take more gas than they
were previously and that’s firming up prices,” Graham Freedman,
a senior analyst at Wood Mackenzie Consultants Ltd. in  London ,
said in a phone interview. Edinburgh-based Wood Mackenzie plans
to raise its U.K. gas-price forecast by about 10 percent later
this week, he said.  
 The July gas contract on ICE climbed 6.9 percent yesterday
to 45.63 pence a therm. It retreated 3.2 percent today to 44.15
pence. That’s equal to $6.54 a million British thermal units. A
therm is 100,000 Btus.  
 Undersea Pipeline  
 Interconnector’s 145-mile (230-kilometer)  pipeline  carried
more than 54 million cubic meters on May 21 this year, about 4
million cubic meters short of the daily record set on April 29,
2003, Darren Reeve, commercial manager at the London-based
company, said in an e-mail.  
 “That gas is going out into European storage,” John Fahy,
managing director of energy consultant Eras Ltd., said in a
phone interview from London.  
 European stockpiles are about 56 percent full, according to
weekly data from Gas Storage Europe in Brussels. U.K inventories
fell to the lowest level in at least seven years in March after
the coldest winter in more than three decades, according to the
U.K. Met Office.  
   E.ON AG , the Dusseldorf, Germany-based is buying more from
the U.K. and avoiding pricier Russian and Norwegian gas indexed
against  oil prices . Brent crude oil futures surged 71 percent
last year to $77.93 a barrel.  
 The jump in shipments has turned Britain into a transit
point for Norwegian and Qatari gas, according to Patrick Heren,
the London-based founder of ICIS Heren, a European gas-price
information service.  
 Winter Trend  
 “It’s a commercial bypass as well as a physical transit,”
allowing buyers to avoid higher oil-linked contract prices that
exporting nations are striving to maintain, Heren said.  
 During the winter, the reversible Interconnector link
typically starts to send more gas into the U.K. than it ships
out, a time when the nation’s demand and prices are highest.
It’s been exporting gas since March 11.  
 Production interruptions in  Norway  and a looming strike by
North Sea oil- and gas-platform workers have boosted U.K. prices
by almost 12 percent this week. The summer months are
traditionally used by rig operators to carry out essential
maintenance, when production halts at some fields.  
   BG Group Plc  is operating a rolling program of maintenance
throughout June at its North Sea fields and deliveries into
Britain via BP Plc’s CATS pipeline are being reduced.  
 With North Sea fields ageing, the government predicts the
U.K. gas market will be entirely dependent on imports by 2030.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Farey in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A gas storage tank sits by residential property in London. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
