-- New Jersey Muni-Bond Oversight Would Rise Under Christie Plan to Cap Taxes
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-06-15T20:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/new-jersey-muni-bond-oversight-would-rise-under-christie-plan-to-cap-taxes.html

          
          
             New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
said state monitoring of local bond sales would increase as part
of his plan to cap property-tax increases at 2.5 percent a year.  
 State officials would step up oversight of borrowing by
local governments and schools to ensure they don’t use debt to
circumvent the tax ceiling, said Christie, 47, a Republican. The
cap, which would apply to school districts as well as municipal
and county governments, provides exemptions for increased debt-
service payments and for spending approved by voters.  
 New Jersey law prohibits borrowing to pay for operations,
Christie said. Covering the cost of capital expenses would be
allowed, he said.  
 “Our Department of Community Affairs is going to be
keeping a very close eye on what they do,” Christie told a
crowd today in Perth Amboy. Schools in the community challenged
his $15 million in aid cuts for the current year and lost.  
 “If municipalities start bonding to pay for ongoing
expenses, we’ll sue,” the governor said. He predicted debt
planned for such purposes would “get tossed out” in court.  
 New Jersey and local borrowers have sold $5.75 billion in
fixed-rate bonds this year, according to Bloomberg data. Its
state and local  tax-exempt debt  returned 2.53 percent this year
through yesterday, about 0.4 percentage point less than the
national  average , according to S&P/Investortools indexes.  
 Restraining Tax Growth  
 Christie has said approving a constitutional amendment
capping rate growth is the best way to check the nation’s
highest property-tax bills, which averaged $7,281 in 2009,
according to state  data . Under New Jersey law, legislators in
Trenton must agree to put the plan on the ballot at least 90
days before the Nov. 2 general election.  
 Christie, the first Republican elected New Jersey governor
since 1997, has said the tax cap is needed to make government
more efficient and the state more affordable for residents.  
 In his proposed $29.3 billion  budget  for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, Christie plans to cut aid to grade schools by
$820 million and trim local-government funding by $445 million.
He has also proposed skipping the state’s $3 billion pension
contribution for the year.  
 “Where’s the money going to come from?” Nate Hutchins, a
66-year-old retiree in Perth Amboy, said after the meeting.  
 “It’s got to come from somewhere,” said Hutchins, who
disagrees with Christie’s plan. “Otherwise you start to get too
far into cutting schools or services,”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        