-- New Jersey Lawmakers Plan Override Vote on Christie Millionaire-Tax Veto
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-06-15T22:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/new-jersey-lawmakers-seek-override-of-christie-s-veto-of-millionaire-tax.html

          
          
             Democrats in New Jersey’s state
Assembly plan an attempt to override Governor  Chris Christie ’s
veto of a measure extending an income-tax surcharge on incomes
of more than $1 million, Speaker  Sheila Oliver  said.  
 Oliver, Democrat of East Orange,  said  an override vote is
set for her chamber on June 21. Supporters of the extension had
hoped it would raise $637 million to restore cuts Christie has
proposed to property-tax rebates for older homeowners as part of
$10 billion in spending reductions in his $29.3 billion budget
for the fiscal year starting July 1.  
 Democrats hold 47 seats in the Assembly, while Republicans
have 33. At least 54 votes are needed to pass a veto override.
The extended surcharge passed last month on a party-line vote,
and Christie vetoed it moments later. Supporters argued that the
levy on 16,000 wealthy residents would help 600,000 older
homeowners, and need seven Republicans to join them to succeed.  
 “Republicans sided with millionaires over senior
citizens” in the May vote, Oliver said today in a statement
issued through her Trenton office.  
 “It’s important to give them one more chance to correct
their mistake,” Oliver said. She called on members of the
minority party to “show some independence from their governor
and join what should be a shared value of protecting elderly New
Jerseyans.”  
 No Crossover Votes  
 Assembly Minority Leader  Alex DeCroce  said his party won’t
provide the needed votes.  
 “Instead of wasting time on divisive political games,
Assembly Democrats should be working with us on ways to make New
Jersey more affordable,” DeCroce, Republican of Parsippany,
said in a statement. The Assembly must act first on an override.  
 Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , Democrat of West
Deptford, said the upper house will take up the override
“immediately” if it passes the Assembly. The Senate voted 23-
17 for the extension along party lines last month; the Assembly
vote was 46-32, with one member of each party absent.  
 Democrats have objected to some of the cuts Christie has
proposed in his fiscal 2011 budget, the first of his term. In
addition to aid for senior programs, Christie would trim $445
million from local-government funding, take $820 million from
grade schools and skip a $3 billion payment to state pensions.  
 “If they want to be on record for a second time in three
weeks voting to raise taxes, so be it,”  Michael Drewniak , a
Christie spokesman, said in an interview. “It’s just another
vote in favor of killing jobs and economic growth.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        