-- Manufacturing Sustains U.S. Recovery as Housing Cools
-- Courtney Schlisserman
-- 2010-06-15T20:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/new-york-area-manufacturing-expansion-quickens-as-factories-lead-recovery.html

          
          
             Manufacturing is leading the U.S.
economic rebound, helping protect the recovery from a slowdown
in housing following the expiration of a government tax credit,
reports today indicated.  
 Factories in the region covered by Federal Reserve Bank of
New York grew at a faster pace in June, signaling they are
weathering the turmoil caused by the European debt crisis,
according to the bank’s so-called Empire State  index . Builder
confidence fell this month, while global demand for U.S.
financial assets in April exceeded forecasts, other reports
showed.  
 Gains in business investment and  exports  may keep powering
American industry, sustaining the world’s largest economy as it
climbs out of the recession. The decrease in builder sentiment
reflected a gloomier outlook for sales, which combined with a
collapse in mortgage applications, adds to evidence housing may
slump following the expiration of a government incentive.  
 “Manufacturing is being a counterweight to weaker parts of
the economy,” said  Robert Dye , a senior economist at PNC
Financial Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh. “We’re going to
see some weak home sales numbers. We’re transitioning from a
government-aided recovery.”  
 Stocks rallied after the figures, with the Standard &
Poor’s  500 Index  erasing its loss for the year. The S&P 500
gained 2.4 percent to close at 1,115.23 in New York. Crude oil
rose above $77 a barrel and the euro topped $1.23 on the
improving outlook.  
 Worse than Forecast  
 Economists forecast the New York Fed’s index would increase
to 20 this month from 19.1 in May, according to the  median  of 55
projections in a Bloomberg News survey. Estimates ranged from 15
to 25. The report showed orders and sales accelerated, while
employment climbed at a slower pace.  
 Factories nationally have added 126,000 workers to payrolls
since the start of the year, according to Labor Department data.
Manufacturers boosted  payrolls  by 29,000 in May, a fifth
consecutive gain, the workweek lengthened and the average amount
of overtime climbed to the highest level in two years as
production accelerated on factory floors.  
 “The manufacturing recovery is continuing at a pretty
rapid pace into the middle of the year,” said  Zach Pandl , an
economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York.
“So far, we have seen no signs of spillover from Europe to the
U.S.”  
 Some of the region’s companies reflect the growth in
manufacturing.  Pall Corp.,  a supplier of filters for drugmakers
and refineries, reported third-quarter earnings that exceeded
analysts’ estimates as sales increased. Full-year profit per
share will be at the high end of Pall’s March projections, the
Port Washington, New York-based company said.  
 ‘Firmly Under Way’  
 “The expected industrial recovery appears to now be firmly
under way,” Chief Executive Officer Eric Krasnoff said in a
statement on June 8.  
 The outlook for housing is less sanguine. The National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo confidence  index 
dropped to 17 from 22 in May, lower than all estimates of
economists surveyed and the biggest decrease since November
2008. Readings lower than 50 mean more respondents said
conditions were poor.  
 The builders group’s indexes of current single-family home
sales, buyer traffic and sales expectations for the next six
months all fell, with the latter dropping to lowest level since
March 2009.  
 Under a government incentive program, which was renewed and
expanded in November, buyers had to sign contracts by the end of
April and close deals by June 30 to qualify for the credit worth
up to $8,000.  
 Pause in Housing  
 The number of mortgage applications to  purchase  properties
dropped in the first week of June to the lowest level since
1997, according to figures from the Mortgage Bankers
Association.  
 Global investors bought a net $83 billion of long-term U.S.
equities, notes and bonds in April, exceeding the median
forecast of economists surveyed which called for a $70 billion
increase, data from the Treasury Department also showed. Net
purchases reached a record $140.5 billion in March.  
 Signs of a sustained recovery, as well as a flight from the
financial-market turmoil in Europe, may increase the flow of
investment into the U.S. International investors accumulated
Treasuries for an 11th straight month, today’s report showed.  
 “Overseas investors still love Treasuries,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at Jefferies & Co. in New
York. “Safety is still the primary concern. I expect this
pattern will be repeated in the May and June data as well.”  
 Also today, prices of goods imported into the U.S. fell in
May, led by the biggest drop in petroleum costs since December
2008, a report from the Labor Department showed. The 0.6 percent
decrease in the  import price index  was less than the median
forecast of economists surveyed and followed a 1.1 percent gain
in April. Prices  excluding petroleum  rose 0.5 percent for a
second month, led by higher costs for capital goods and metals.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. Economy: Manufacturing Sustains Recovery  
                       
                         
                           Jay Capers/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Factories in the region covered by Federal Reserve Bank of New York grew at a faster pace in June. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Factories in the region covered by Federal Reserve Bank of New York grew at a faster pace in June. Photographer: Jay Capers/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
