-- New York Is Forecast to Get Heat as Wave Moves Eastward Through the Week
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-06-15T16:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/new-york-is-forecast-to-get-heat-as-wave-moves-eastward-through-the-week.html

          
          
             A heat wave in the center of the
U.S. will spread into the middle Atlantic states as the week
goes on and drive temperatures in New York City 5 to 10 degrees
above normal by the weekend, forecasters said.  
 Temperatures in New York City are expected to reach the
high 80s Fahrenheit (low 30s Celsius) by this weekend, said Matt
Scalora a National Weather Service meteorologist in Upton, New
York.  
 Hot weather will cover the U.S. from Massachusetts to New
Mexico and from Michigan to the Gulf of Mexico through June 28,
according to the  U.S. Climate Prediction Center  in Camp Springs,
Maryland. The heat may last even longer, said  Jim Rouiller , a
senior energy meteorologist at commercial forecaster Planalytics
Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania.  
 “A heat dome will set up over the center of the country
and once established this heat pattern looks to persist into
early July,” Rouiller said by telephone. “We will see the
strongest uptick in heating demand and air conditioning demand
that we have seen in a while.”  
 Rouiller said hot weather, when coupled with predictions
for a busy Atlantic hurricane season, means oil and natural gas
markets are likely to be active.  
 “The weather fundamentals are much more bullish,”
Rouiller said.  
 The high temperature in  Atlanta  yesterday was 95 and the
cooling-degree-days value was 21. In Little Rock, Arkansas,
temperatures reached 95 with a cooling value of 22, and
Columbia, South Carolina, recorded a high of 100 and a value of
22, according to weather service records.  
 Degree Days  
 Cooling degree days are calculated by subtracting a base of
65 degrees from the average daily temperature. The value is
designed to show energy demand, according to the National
Weather Service. The higher the value, the warmer the weather,
and thus the more energy is probably consumed to cool homes and
businesses.  
 Those temperatures will reach into the northeast by week’s
end and stay put across much of the rest of the country, said
 Travis Hartman , energy weather manager and meteorologist at  MDA
EarthSat Weather  in Rockville, Maryland.  
 “We have a lot of heat coming over populated areas;
cooling demand should be very, very high,” Hartman said by
telephone. “It is some pretty impressive heat, especially for
this time of year.  
 Hot in Houston  
 Houston  has recorded temperatures of 90 or above for 11 of
the past 14 days and is forecast to hit that mark for the rest
of the week, according to the weather service.  Dallas  has
reached 90 12 of the past 14 days and even managed a high
temperature of 100 on June 5, according to the weather service.  
 “You have southern cities that are hot to begin with and
then you throw more heat on them and you have sustained cooling
demand,” Hartman said.  
 Natural gas for July delivery rose 9.4 cents, or 1.9
percent, to $5.10 per million British thermal units at 11:41
a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange after reaching $5.169,
the highest intraday price since Feb. 18. Gas has increased 18
percent from a month ago, the biggest gainer in the  S&P GSCI
Index  of commodity markets.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        