-- Nintendo, Sony Bet on 3-D Technology to Revive Video-Game Sales
-- Cliff Edwards
-- 2010-06-16T00:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/nintendo-sony-bet-on-3-d-video-game-titles-as-u-s-industry-sales-slump.html

          
          
             Nintendo Co.  and  Sony Corp.  showed
off new 3-D capabilities for video games as the companies look
to additional features to revive shrinking industry sales.  
 Nintendo introduced the 3DS at the annual  E3  game
conference in Los Angeles yesterday, showing a device that
displays games in three dimensions without requiring glasses.
Sony demonstrated PlayStation 3 titles with 3-D capabilities.  
 With U.S. game industry sales down 11 percent this year,
the companies are betting the technology that made “Avatar”
the best-selling movie will appeal to players. Nintendo and Sony
shares rose following the announcements.  
 Nintendo rose 4.6 percent to 26,350 yen at 9:35 a.m. in
Osaka trading. Sony climbed 1.6 percent to 2,655 yen on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 Sony, based in Tokyo, added a new motion-activated
controller like Nintendo’s Wii wand to appeal to casual game
players. This week, Microsoft Corp. demonstrated motion-sensing
technology that lets people play games without a controller.  
 The controller will sell for $49.99, while a companion
navigation piece is priced at $29.99, Sony said yesterday at E3.
The device will be released on Sept. 15 in Europe, four days
later in the U.S. and on Oct. 21 in Japan, the company said.  
 More than 40 games for the new controller will be available
for the U.S. holiday season, with Sony-owned games costing
$39.99, the company said. A PlayStation 3 console that includes
the “Move” controller will sell for $399.99, Sony said.  
 The company also announced a Nov. 2 release date for “Gran
Turismo 5,” the latest version of the popular racing title, and
a PlayStation3 subscription service that will cost $49.99 a year
or $17.99 for three months.  
 No TV Needed  
 Nintendo’s 3DS will be released by the end of the fiscal
year concluding in March and a price hasn’t been set, President
 Satoru Iwata  said in an interview. The company, based in Kyoto,
Japan, chose to develop a handheld 3-D system so it didn’t have
to wait for people to buy televisions that support the
technology, he said.  
 “As soon as we launch this 3-D device, everybody will be
able to enjoy it,” Iwata said. Game publishers including
 Activision Blizzard Inc. ,  Electronic Arts Inc. , Ubisoft
Entertainment SA and Konami Corp. are making games for the new
handheld device, he said.  
 Iwata said he wasn’t concerned that competing motion-
activated technology from Microsoft and Sony will eat away at
Wii sales. Nintendo is releasing new games including a version
of “Zelda” to keep up interest, he said.  
 “It’s going to be the consumer that will make the
judgment,” Iwata said.  
 Development Costs  
 Activision Blizzard Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Bobby Kotick  said 3-D is a “fantastic” innovation because it will
enhance game play, including how bullets buzz by in its “Call of
Duty” franchise.  
 “The nature of what we do is immersion,” said Kotick, who
runs the world’s largest video-game publisher, in an interview.  
 Making 3-D games is likely to be more expensive for
publishers already facing rising development costs, Take-Two
Interactive Software Inc. Chairman  Strauss Zelnick  said
yesterday in an interview. He called the process “a lot more
complicated.”  
 “I’m a little bit cautious because I’m skeptical it’s
going to really transform our business,” said Zelnick, whose
company makes the “Grand Theft Auto” series. Take-Two’s 2K
studio is making its NBA basketball game for Sony’s 3-D platform.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Satoru Iwata, president of Nintendo Co., introduces the new 3DS game at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in Los Angeles. Photographer: Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg *** Local Caption  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
