-- North Korea Instability Should Draw U.S. Attention, Panel Says
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-06-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/north-korea-instability-should-draw-u-s-attention-panel-says.html

          
          
             The U.S. should prepare for
potential instability in North Korea and be willing to use
military action to prevent further nuclear tests by the regime
or the sharing of technology with rogue states and terrorists,
an American policy group said.  
 The Washington-based  Council on Foreign Relations  stresses
in a report that the countries involved in stalled talks on
North Korea’s nuclear program -- the U.S., Japan, Russia, South
Korea and China -- will have to cooperate closely to rid the
Korean peninsula of nuclear weapons.  
 The report follows North Korea’s suspected sinking of a
South Korean warship in March, an incident that underscores the
country’s volatility, the Council on Foreign Relations said.
Forty-six South Korean sailors died. It recommends six steps for
dealing with North Korea, including efforts to integrate the
country into the international community.  
 “The danger posed by North Korea is sufficiently severe,
and the costs of inaction and acquiescence so high, that the
United States and its partners must continue to press for
denuclearization,” wrote the members of an independent task
force behind the report.  
 The panel includes  Victor Cha , a Bush administration
 official  who participated in the China-hosted North Korea talks,
which the North Korean communist regime has boycotted since 2008.
Another member is  James Shinn , who was an assistant secretary of
defense for Asia under President George W. Bush.  
 Competing Interests  
 Each country involved in the talks has concerns that may
complicate a unified response, the task force cautioned even as
it advocated a return to the diplomatic forum. Russia and South
Korea want the peninsula denuclearized through peaceful means,
Japan is most concerned with its citizens that North Korea has
kidnapped and China’s focus is on regional stability.  
 The report stressed the importance of China’s role, saying
that “any hope of North Korea’s dismantling its nuclear program
rests on China’s willingness to take a strong stance.” China is
North Korea’s closest ally and trading partner.  
 For denuclearization efforts to succeed, “China must
acknowledge that the long-term hazard of a nuclear Korea is more
perilous to it and the region that the short-term risk of
instability,” the authors said in the report.  
 Explicit acceptance of a nuclear North Korea might trigger
an arms race in the region, pushing South Korea and Japan to
acquire preemptive nuclear strike capabilities, they said.  
 “The United States must seek to resolve, rather than
simply manage the challenge posed by a nuclear North Korea,”
according to the report.  
 Nuclear Exports  
 Beyond talks, U.S. priorities for dealing with North Korea
should begin with the prevention of nuclear exports to others,
the report said. The next priority for the U.S. and other six
party members should be to stop North Korea from further
developing its nuclear program. The focus should then be on
scaling back North Korea’s nuclear work, it said.  
 One of the report’s authors said that reaching this goal
will require new leadership in Pyongyang. “There will be no
denuclearization without regime change,” wrote  Fred Ikle  of the
 Center for Strategic and International Studies  in Washington.  
 North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  promoted his brother-in-law,
 Jang Song Thaek , at a parliamentary session last week, a move
that may be aimed at solidifying the transition of power to
Kim’s youngest son, Kim Jong Un.  
 There is high potential that regime change after Kim Jong
Il’s death would be contested or lead to a breakdown of
authority, the policy report said, a prospect that could have
severe repercussions for South Korea and China.  
 In that light, the task force recommended the U.S. should
plan for instability, including military measures that should be
coordinated with China and South Korea. And finally, the authors
said the U.S. should work hard to integrate North Korea and its
people into international affairs.  
 “Planning for contingencies in North Korea is not the same
as predicting instability as part of the full range of possible
outcomes in dealing with North Korea,” the task force wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Washington-based Council on Foreign Relations stresses in a report that the countries involved in stalled talks on North Korea’s nuclear program will have to cooperate closely to rid the Korean peninsula of nuclear weapons. Photographer: Peter Parks/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
