-- North, South Korea Spar Over UN Sanctions 10 Years After `Sunshine' Policy
-- Bill Varner
-- 2010-06-15T06:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/north-south-korea-spar-over-un-sanctions-10-years-after-sunshine-policy.html

          
          
             South Korea yesterday urged the
United Nations Security Council to take action over claims that
the North torpedoed the Cheonan warship. North Korea responded
by claiming it was a victim of fabricated evidence, after
threatening to turn Seoul into a “sea of flame.”  
 The sparring in the Security Council came on the eve of
today’s 10th anniversary of historic peace talks between the two
Cold War foes that earned then-South Korean President  Kim Dae Jung  the Nobel Peace  Prize . Those talks ushered in a decade of
“Sunshine Policies” aimed at building detente with  Kim Jong Il ’s regime after five decades of armed standoff.  
 Since then, North Korea has tested two nuclear devices,
spurning multilateral talks to discuss Kim’s atomic ambitions
and incurring UN sanctions that crippled its economy. South
Korea’s President  Lee Myung Bak  said North Korea must pay for
sinking the ship, and the deaths of 46 sailors, threatening to
cut off trade with a neighbor where per capita incomes are
1/18th those of the South, according to Bank of Korea estimates.  
 North Korea “refuses to make its peace with the modern
world,” while South Korea has shown “it’s possible to live for
two generations as if North Korea wasn’t there,” said  Aidan Foster-Carter , an honorary research fellow at Leeds University
in England, who specializes in the Korean peninsula.  
 The UN should take “appropriate action” that is
“commensurate with the gravity of the provocation,” South
Korean Ambassador  Park In Kook  said in New York yesterday as
officials gave evidence of North Korea’s hand in the sinking.  
 “We are just victims,” Pak Tok Hun, North Korea’s deputy
ambassador to the UN told reporters before meeting privately
with the Security Council.  
 Panel’s Report  
 A South Korea-led multination panel, which said on May 20
North Korea fired a torpedo that sank the 1,200-ton warship,
included experts from the U.S., U.K., Australia and Sweden.  
 The evidence included photographs of pieces of the torpedo
and information about the movements of North Korean submarines
in the region at the time of the attack. Other proof included
photos of ship plates that were bent inwards by an explosion and
statements from survivors.  
 Gerard Araud , France’s ambassador to the UN, said he found
the South Korean briefing “very convincing.” Araud said there
was “nothing on the North Korean side, just allegations,
accusations, no science.”  
 North Korea has accused South Korea of cooking up evidence
to justify U.S.-led efforts to stifle it.  
 Some council members “are still analyzing, have some
questions and want to wait,” Japan’s Ambassador  Yukio Takasu 
said, without naming any countries.  
 Veto Power  
 China, which has veto power on the council, has so far
refused to blame North Korea for sinking the Cheonan, saying
only that it was still considering the evidence.  
 China’s Communist Party leaders have ties with the Korean
Workers Party that predate the two country’s foundation and were
forged in blood during the 1950-1953 Korean War. China fears
that a collapse in Kim’s regime would cause a flood of refugees
and instability along the 1,415-kilometer (880-mile) border
separating the two nations.  
 Regime change may also remove an ally that creates a buffer
with capitalist South Korea, which is host to 28,500 U.S. armed
forces personnel.  
 “There’s something worse in China’s imagination than what
North Korea is, and that’s what North Korea isn’t,” Foster-
Carter said.  
 Trade Ties  
 China’s relationship with North Korea has changed over the
past 10 years, with Japan and South Korea now its third- and
fourth-biggest trading partners after the European Union and the
U.S. Combined two-way trade with the two countries was $485.1
billion in 2009, Chinese customs figures show. Two-way trade
with North Korea was $2.7 billion last year.  
 Since South Korea emerged from dictatorship in 1987, the
country’s economy has risen more than eightfold to become the
world’s 12th-biggest exporter, led by companies such as  Samsung
Electronics Co. , the world’s biggest electronics company, and
Posco, the world’s most profitable steelmaker.  
 Excluding intra-Korean trade, North Korea relies on ally
China for about 80 percent of commerce. Kim’s regime is
grappling with the effects of sanctions and widespread shortages
of food and goods.  
 UN sanctions imposed after North Korea’s second nuclear
test in May 2009 caused the country’s international commerce to
shrink 9.7 percent last year, according to Seoul-based trade
agency, Kotra. North Korea doesn’t release its own trade figures.  
 Since the publication of the June 15, 2000, Joint
Declaration, North and South Korea “eliminated confrontation
and hostility, and realized reconciliation, cooperation and
communication,” Yang Hyong Sop, vice president of the Presidium
of the Supreme People’s Assembly, was cited by North Korea’s
official Korea Central News Agency as saying yesterday.  
 Hours before making its presentation to the Security
Council, North Korea threatened to turn “Seoul, the stronghold
of the group of traitors, into a sea of flame,” KCNA said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        