-- North Korea Tells UN It Didn't Sink South's Warship, Calls Itself `Victim'
-- Bill Varner
-- 2010-06-15T01:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/north-korea-tells-un-it-didn-t-sink-south-s-warship-calls-itself-victim-.html

          
          
             North Korea described itself as a
“victim” in the sinking of a South Korea warship during a
meeting of the  United Nations  Security Council that will
consider a response to the March 26 incident.  
 “We had nothing to do with that,” Pak Tok Hun, North
Korea’s deputy ambassador to the UN told reporters before
meeting privately with the Security Council. “We are just
victims.”  
 South Korea’s Yoon Duk Yong, who led a multinational
investigation of the sinking of the Cheonan, gave a 30-minute
presentation of evidence to the Security Council that it was
caused by a North Korean torpedo launched from a “midget
submarine.”  
 Park In Kook , South Korea’s UN envoy who requested the
 Security Council  meeting in a June 4 letter, said his government
wants the council to take “appropriate action commensurate with
the gravity of the provocation.” He declined to say what
specific measure would be sought.  
 South Korea’s presentation to the Security Council included
photographs of pieces of the torpedo and information about the
movements of North Korean submarines in the region at the time
of the attack. Other proof included photos of ship plates that
were bent inwards by an explosion and statements from survivors.  
 The multinational panel, which said on May 20 North Korea
fired a torpedo that sank the 1,200-ton warship, killing 46
sailors, included officials from the U.S., U.K., Australia and
Sweden.  
 Japanese Envoy  
 Japan’s Ambassador  Yukio Takasu  said the South Korean
presentation was “extremely convincing” and that the Security
Council should “take action.” Some council members, Takasu
said without naming them, “are still analyzing, have some
questions and want to wait.”  
 Ambassador  Claude Heller  of Mexico, president of the
Security Council this month, told reporters the panel was
“gravely concerned” by the incident.  
 “The Security Council makes a strong call to the parties
to refrain from any act that could escalate tensions in the
region,” Heller said, adding it will “continue its
consultations.”  
 North Korea has played on contradictions in South Korea’s
report, including a change in the reported time the incident
took place.  
 Gerard Araud , France’s ambassador to the UN, said he found
the South Korean briefing “very convincing.” About Pak’s
presentation, Araud said there was “nothing on the North Korean
side, just allegations, accusations, no science.”  
 Takasu told reporters there was “no other explanation that
the sinking of the Cheonan was done other than by this torpedo
attack fired by a North Korean submarine. All the other
theoretical possibilities have been eliminated to the
satisfaction of many of us. Most of us are very satisfied with
the facts,” he said.  
 North Korea came with very little substance,” Takasu said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        