-- North Korean Fans Jet to South Africa for World Cup Match With Brazil
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-06-15T20:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/north-korean-fans-jet-to-south-africa-for-world-cup-match-with-brazil.html

          
          
             About 100 soccer fans from North
Korea arrived in South Africa today for the start of their
team’s campaign at soccer’s World Cup.  
 The supporters, dressed in the national team’s red colors,
waved flags, chanted and clapped castanets together in unison as
North Korea, the lowest ranked team in the competition, ran onto
the field for the start of the game against top-ranked Brazil at
Ellis Park stadium in Johannesburg.  
 “I think they will do well enough for us to stay for the
whole month,” Kim Yong Chul, 40, told reporters, as he waited
for the start of the game, which the team lost 2-1 after holding
Brazil scoreless for more than a half.  
 The block of red-clad North Korean fans contrasted against
the yellow-shirted Brazilian supporters, who made up the
majority of the crowd for the second match in Group G.  
 North Koreans aren’t allowed to leave their country without
government approval. Chul didn’t say who paid for the group’s
journey or what the men did for a living.  
 The team held Brazil to 0-0 at halftime.  
 “We thought we should be two goals ahead,” Kim Yong Chon,
43, told reporters.  
 Maicon scored Brazil’s opener from an acute angle after 55
minutes, with Elano doubling his team’s lead in the 72nd minute.
Ji Yun-Nam replied for the Koreans after 89 minutes.  
 ‘One Nation’  
 The team’s arrival comes at a time when President  Kim Jong Il’s  regime has come under mounting pressure over a torpedo
attack on a South Korean warship that led to the death of 46
sailors in March. While South Korea says an investigation proves
that North Korea launched the attack the North Koreans have
denied responsibility. South Korea is also at the World Cup,
beating Greece 2-0 in its opening game on June 12.  
 “We also cheer for South Korea,” Kim Yong Chon said.
“Korea is one nation and our hearts are with them too.”  
 North Korea today said it would respond militarily to any
accusation by the United Nations Security Council of complicity
in sinking the ship.  
 The team hasn’t played at the World Cup for 44 years.
Brazil is a record five-time champion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq  Panja at Ellis Park Stadium via the London newsroom on
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        