-- N. Korea Relies on Japanese Players in World Cup vs. Brazil
-- Makiko Kitamura
-- 2010-06-15T10:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/north-korea-turns-to-japan-based-players-in-world-cup-clash-against-brazil.html

          
          
             North Korea, the lowest ranked team
in the soccer World Cup, faces five-time champion Brazil tonight
with its hopes pinned on two players from Japan.  
 Japan-born striker Jong Tae-Se and midfielder An Yong Hak,
who both play in the J. League, will represent the communist
nation in its first World Cup match in 44 years, playing at 8:30
p.m. local time in Johannesburg. Ladbrokes Plc, a U.K. oddsmaker,
 rates  North Korea a 1,000-to-1 chance to win the tournament.  
 The match comes as tensions on the Korean peninsula are at
the highest in decades, sparked by the alleged sinking of South
Korea’s Cheonan warship by the North in March. Japan is
supporting the South’s call to the United Nations to impose
sanctions against North Korea, and continues to seek the return
of citizens abducted by the communist regime.  
 “These are tense times,” said Ri Kang Hong, assistant
general secretary of the  Football Association of D.P.R. Korea 
and chief director of the  Korean Football Association in Japan .
But “our players are intent on portraying themselves as good
sportsmen. They know that each and every action they take on and
off the field is tied to the dignity of their country.”  
 This is the first time players from Japan are representing
North Korea at the World Cup, according to Ri. Jong, 26, who
plays for  Kawasaki Frontale  in the J. League, and Omiya Ardija
midfielder An, 31, were named in the national team last month.  
 The two players attended North Korean schools in Japan,
hold North Korean passports and have no problem communicating
with Pyongyang-based teammates, Ri said.  
 Second World Cup  
 North Korea, playing in its second World Cup since reaching
the quarterfinals in 1966, has no professional teams. National
team players earn about twice the average laborer’s salary,
according to the North Korean football association.  
 Brazil comes into the tournament with five consecutive
friendly wins, according to FIFA’s website. Of the 23 members of
the squad, 20 play in European leagues, according to FIFA.  
 Hong Yong Jo, North Korea’s captain, plays for FC Rostov in
the  Russian Premier League , the only member to play in Europe.  
 “Regarding the match results, I can be very optimistic,”
North Korea coach Kim Jong Hon said through a translator at a
news conference on June 14, the Wall Street Journal reported.
“Our players are very qualified.”  
 There was an adjustment period for the Japan-born players
and the rest of the team, Ri said.  
 ‘Physical Conflicts’  
 “There were issues along the way, including physical
conflicts,” he said. “They had a tough time fighting to stake
out their positions on the team.”  
 The  Japan Football Association  didn’t pick Jong and An for
their national team because the players don’t hold Japanese
passports and had played for North Korea in other international
tournaments, said spokeswoman Yasuyo Oshiden.  
 Japan had 589,239 registered “zainichi,” people of Korean
descent born and raised in Japan, at the end of 2008, according
to the Immigration Bureau of Japan’s  website . Many of them are
descendents of laborers brought over from Korea when Japan ruled
the peninsula as a colony from 1910 to 1945.  
 Jong, named one of the top strikers by the J. League last
year, has represented North Korea in 20 international matches
since 2007, according to Frontale’s website. In a World Cup
warm-up in Austria last month, Jong scored both goals in a 2-2
tie with Greece.  
 An has played for North Korea since 2002 and has also
played professionally for the Busan I’Park and Suwon Samsung
Bluewing teams in South Korea from 2006 through 2009, according
to Ardija’s website.  
 The team’s entry into the spotlight of the World Cup is
compatible with the regime’s aggressive stance, said  Robert Dujarric  of Temple University’s Tokyo campus.  
 ‘In Their DNA’  
 “All communist countries put a lot of emphasis on sports
to show how strong, successful and mighty they are,” said
Dujarric, who directs the university’s Institute of Contemporary
Asian Studies. “It’s in their DNA. They think, ‘If we win on
the playing field, we can win on the battlefield.’”  
 A South Korea-led multinational panel on May 20 found that
North Korea was behind the attack, sparking threats of “all-out
war” from North Korea. South Korea presented evidence to the UN
yesterday to show the sinking of the Cheonan was caused by a
North Korean torpedo. The U.S. and Japan are backing South
Korea’s push for UN action against North Korea.  
 North Korean abductions of Japanese nationals in the 1970s
and 1980s and Japan’s colonization of the Korean peninsula have
strained their diplomatic relations.  
 “We will do our utmost as a matter of the government’s
responsibility in order to bring all the victims back to Japan
as soon as possible,”  Naoto Kan , Japan’s new prime minister,
said in a speech June 12.  
 Promoting Soccer  
 The Korean Football Association in Japan was founded in
1961 to promote the careers of Korean players in Japan and help
develop the sport in North Korea. The association is not funded
by  Kim Jong Il ’s regime and operates largely through private
contributions from Koreans in Japan, Ri said.  
 Until an indoor facility was built last year, no enclosed
fields were available around Pyongyang during winter, when
temperatures can drop to -20 degrees Celsius (-4 Fahrenheit), Ri
said. The national team typically travels to warmer Chinese
cities to train because of friendly relations between the
countries, he said.  
 At the  1966 World Cup  in England, North Korea upset Italy
1-0 to reach the quarterfinals. This year, they face Brazil,
Portugal and Ivory Coast in the group stage.  
 “Our goal is to break through the group stage,” Ri said.  
 Before leaving for the World Cup, Jong issued a statement
saying he wished “to value my foundation as a zainichi.”  
 “The zainichi players grew up in a different environment
and have a slightly different playing style from the others,”
Ri said. “I am sure they want to bring that out in a positive
way at the tournament.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     North Korea's defender Jong Tae-Se stretches during a team training session at Hellis Park in Johannesburg. Photographer: Stephane De Sakutin/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     North Korea's players, from left to right, defender Pak Chol-Jin, midfielder Ri Chol-Myong, midfielder Pak Sung-Hyok and goalkeeper Kim Myon-Won take part in a training session at Hellis Park Stadium in Johannesburg. Fabrice Coffrini/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
