-- North Korea Blames Goalkeeper as Brazil Escapes World Cup Upset in 2-1 Win
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-06-15T23:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/north-korea-blames-goalkeeper-as-brazil-escapes-world-cup-upset-in-2-1-win.html

          
          
             North Korea blamed the World Cup’s
latest goalkeeping error for its failure to secure one of the
biggest upsets in soccer history yesterday.  
 The Asian team, ranked 105th in the world, had prevented
five-time champion Brazil from scoring for 55 minutes when
goalkeeper Ri Myong Guk allowed Maicon’s shot to go between him
and the post and into the bottom corner. Elano scored Brazil’s
second goal in the 72nd minute before Ji Yun Nam made the score
2-1 with a minute to go.  
 “We did very well to hold them,” North Korea striker Jong
Tae Se told reporters after the game at Ellis Park in
Johannesburg. “Unfortunately there was a mistake by the
goalkeeper. We always thought the first goal was the most
important.”  
 Ri’s mistake follows errors by three other goalkeepers
during the first week of the tournament. On June 12 England’s
 Robert Green  allowed the U.S. to tie after fumbling  Clint Dempsey’s  shot into his goal. A day later Algeria lost 1-0 to
Slovenia after Faouzi Chaouchi pushed Robert Koren’s shot into
the corner of his net. On June 14 a mistake by Paraguay’s Justo
Villar saved holders Italy from defeat in Cape Town.  
 North Korea won crowd support when it last played in the
1966 World Cup in England as Pak Doo Ik, then a corporal in the
country’s army, scored in his team’s 1-0 victory over Italy,
which has won the cup four times.  
 The North Korean team today was cheered by about 100
supporters, clad in identical red outfits and flown into South
Africa on the morning of the game by the country’s government.
The majority of the 54,331 in the crowd wore the yellow of
Brazil, ranked behind Spain as second-favorites to win the
tournament and clinch a record-extending sixth title.  
 ‘Fought Well’  
 The North Koreans frustrated their opponents, whose team
included former world player of the year Kaka and Robinho, the
most expensive player bought by a U.K. club.  
 “I’m proud of our team,” coach Kim Jong Hun told a post-
match press conference. “The Brazilian team is a very strong
team, and although we didn’t win, we fought very well.”  
 Brazil was struggling to break through until Maicon’s
strike. The Inter Milan defender burst down the right before
firing the ball across goal and behind Ri. The ball, criticized
by several players for its inconsistency, swerved into the back
of the net.  
 “The ball is very favorable to us - it’s fantastic,”
Maicon said. “It also makes it a bit difficult for the
goalkeepers.”  
 Playing Ugly  
 Before the game Brazil coach Dunga said he didn’t care if
his team played ugly to win. Elano’s goal was a rare bright
moment in his team’s performance. The midfielder took the ball
in his stride and shot after Robinho threaded his pass through
several defenders.  
 “It doesn’t matter how you win the game,” Brazil
midfielder  Gilberto Silva  told reporters. “It’s very important
for us to start well, to win three points and now we go for the
next game.”  
 Coach Kim praised his team’s desire. Ji ran past several
Brazilian defenders before shooting over a diving  Julio Cesar  .  
 “If you saw that I was happy about our goal, despite the
result, it’s because our players played a good game and scored a
good goal, so I was very proud.”  
 Group G rivals Portugal and Ivory Coast tied 0-0 earlier in
the day. Brazil meets Ivory Coast on June 20 and North Korea and
Portugal meet a day later.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq  Panja at Ellis Park Stadium via the London newsroom on
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     North Korea's goalkeeper Ri Myong-Guk gives instructions to his teammates during the 2010 FIFA World Cup South Africa Group G match between Brazil and North Korea at Ellis Park Stadium in Johannesburg, South Africa. Photographer: Valery Hache/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
