-- Norwegian Oil Workers May Strike at Statoil, Shell Platforms in North Sea
-- Marianne Stigset
-- 2010-06-15T08:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/norwegian-oil-workers-may-strike-at-statoil-shell-platforms-in-north-sea.html

          
          
             Norwegian offshore oil workers may
strike starting on June 17 if mediation fails, affecting  Statoil
ASA’s  Gullfaks and Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s Draugen platforms.  
 Two-day government-mediated talks affecting 6,700 offshore
workers in Norway will end midnight on June 16, possibly
triggering a strike,  according  to employers and unions. Initial
talks between three unions, Industry Energy, Safe and the
Norwegian Organization of Managers and Executives, and the
Norwegian Oil Industry Association, broke down on May 6.  
 The unions have called for a strike at the  Shell -operated
Draugen platform, which has output of about 43,000 barrels of
oil a day, Statoil’s Gullfaks B and C platforms and at floating
offshore hotels at the Ekofisk, Valhall and Snorre fields. The
employers’ group, known as OLF, has in turn taken steps that may
lead to a lockout later this month if mediation fails.  
 “Should negotiations break down, the OLF may choose to
announce a lock-out, which would enter into force four days
later,” Eli Ane Nedreskaar, a group spokeswoman, said by
telephone. “But this has not been decided yet.”  
 Norway’s oil production, including natural gas liquids and
condensate, is estimated at 1.87 million barrels a day in 2010,
according to the Petroleum and Energy Ministry. The country is
the world’s sixth-biggest supplier of crude and also second-
biggest exporter of natural gas.  
 Gullfaks C’s output has been shut since May 20 because of
unstable pressure in a well. Statoil’s spokesman  Gisle Johanson 
couldn’t say how much Gullfaks B produced or if it would be
affected by a strike, adding that it “depends on how many
people are involved and what positions they hold.”  
 Shell spokeswoman  Kitty Eide  said it was possible
production at Draugen would be affected.  
 The groups have failed to reach an agreement on wage
increases primarily for cleaning crews at the facilities. The
Industry Energy union has demanded wages for cleaners be on par
with the pay of other offshore workers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        