-- Oat Futures Surge Most in Five Years, Extending Six-Session Rally to 41%
-- Tony C. Dreibus
-- 2010-06-15T20:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/oat-futures-surge-in-chicago-extend-rally-to-42-over-past-six-sessions.html

          
          
             Oat futures soared the most in five
years on speculation that heavy rain will result in reduced
acreage and lower yields in Canada, the second-biggest producer.  
 Prices surged 41 percent in the past six sessions,
including today’s 11 percent gain. Wet weather will cut the area
planted with all spring crops by as much as 12.5 million acres,
the Canadian Wheat Board said last week. The excessive
precipitation may also cause yields to fall, the government
said.  
 “It’s this Canada acreage news” driving up prices, said
 Jim Wyckoff , the president of jimwyckoff.com, a trading adviser
in Cedar Falls, Iowa. “If you look at a chart before that news
came out, oats broke out on the upside last week, and you’ve
seen some fresh speculative buying.”  
 Oat futures for July delivery rose 27 cents to $2.74 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. Earlier, the price reached
$2.77, the highest level for the most-active contract since Jan.
11. The percentage change today marked the biggest increase
since March 30, 2005.  
 The price may move higher after a short-term correction,
Wyckoff said.  
 “It’s been a very impressive move,” Wyckoff said. “I
wouldn’t be surprised to see a pullback here. There are no clues
that there is a top in place. If you jumped onboard to the long
side now, the risk is higher, but there’s nothing to indicate a
market top.”  
 Oats have been an indicator for price moves in corn and
wheat, Wyckoff said. “What we’ve seen in oats is what we could
see in the grains.”  
 Corn was unchanged today at $3.75 a bushel after climbing
12 percent in the previous five sessions. Wheat was unchanged at
$4.675 a bushel after gaining 9.2 percent in the prior three
sessions.  
 This year, oats have dropped 1.1 percent. Corn is down 9.5
percent, and wheat has declined 14 percent.  
 Russia is the biggest producer of oats. Corn is the biggest
U.S. crop, followed by soybeans, hay and wheat.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Dreibus  in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        