-- Obama Names Ex-Justice Official Bromwich to Revamp Offshore-Oil Regulator
-- Kate Andersen Brower
-- 2010-06-15T22:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/obama-said-to-name-ex-u-s-lawyer-bromwich-to-revamp-offshore-oil-agency.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  named former
Justice Department official  Michael Bromwich  to revamp federal
management of offshore oil and gas exploration as part of an
effort to clean up an agency the president says was plagued by
corruption.  
 Bromwich, 56, who served as inspector general of the
Justice Department during the administration of former President
 Bill Clinton , will lead an effort to overhaul the Minerals
Management Service, focusing on the relationship between the
agency and the  oil companies  it oversees, according to an
announcement released by the White House.  
 The former director of the agency,  Elizabeth Birnbaum ,
became the first administration official to step down in
connection with the  BP Plc  oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, the
worst such disaster in U.S. history.  
 According to the latest estimates, BP’s Macondo oil well is
leaking 35,000 to 60,000 barrels a day, according to the flow-
rate technical group on the Deepwater Horizon Response  website .  
 Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar , in a May 19 order, split
the Minerals and Management Service into three divisions. The
new units are the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, the Bureau
of Safety and Environmental Enforcement and the Office of
Natural Resources Revenue.  
 In a May 27 White House news conference, the president
criticized the MMS for having a “cozy” relationship with the
industry it regulates and being “plagued by corruption.”  
 ‘Scandalously Close Relationship’  
 “For years, there has been a scandalously close
relationship between oil companies and the agency that regulates
them,” he said. “That’s why we’ve decided to separate the
people who permit the drilling from those who regulate and
ensure the safety of the drilling.”  
 Obama returned from a two-day visit to the region hit by
the  BP Plc  oil spill this afternoon and is set to deliver a
televised address to the nation at 8 p.m. Washington time
tonight.  
 The president will use tonight’s address, his first from
the  Oval Office , to outline what’s been done so far to stop the
leak and clean up the oil, what needs to be done to mitigate the
economic impact and what regulations are needed to make sure
another such incident won’t happen again, according to  Bill Burton , an administration spokesman.  
 Paying for Damage  
 “I am with you, my administration is with you for the long
haul, to make sure BP pays for the damage it has done and to
make sure you are getting the help that you need,” Obama said
this morning in remarks at the Naval Air Station Pensacola,
where he thanked service personnel for their work on the
response.  
 Earlier in the day, he was briefed by Coast Guard Admiral
 Thad Allen  on the clean-up efforts as he is pushing BP to boost
work on containing the oil and to set up a multibillion-dollar
 escrow account  to pay for damage caused by the spill.  
 Bromwich served as the Justice Department’s inspector
general from 1994 to 1999. He is a lawyer in private practice at
the firm  Fried Frank  where he conducted investigations at
private corporations and represented institutions and
individuals in white-collar criminal cases.  
 He received his law degree from the Harvard Law School in
1980.  
 Police Monitor  
 From 2002 to 2008, Bromwich served as the independent
monitor for the District of Columbia’s Metropolitan Police
Department, investigating civil rights and matters of internal
misconduct.  
 In 2007, he ran an investigation into the Houston Police
Department crime lab.  
 When he served as Justice Department inspector general, he
conducted investigations of misconduct at the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation .  
 Before his appointment as inspector general, he was a
federal prosecutor and assistant U.S. attorney for the Southern
District of New York.  
 He is known for taking “broken agencies, applying rigorous
reforms and oversight and seeing positive results,” according
to the  White House  statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        