-- Obama Returns From Gulf Ahead of Address on BP Spill
-- Hans Nichols
-- 2010-06-15T19:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/obama-to-address-nation-on-bp-spill-following-fourth-trip-to-gulf-region.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  returned to
Washington this afternoon before speaking to the nation about
how his administration will repair the economic and
environmental damage from the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 With the oil gushing from a damaged  BP Plc  well in the Gulf
of Mexico threatening the shores of four states, Obama told
residents of the region today that he will be a “fierce
advocate” for them and make sure the company pays compensation
for losses in the tourism, fishing and related industries.  
 “My administration is going to do whatever it takes, for
as long as it takes, to deal with this disaster,” Obama said in
Pensacola, Florida.  
 Obama will use tonight’s address at 8 p.m. Washington time,
his first from the Oval Office, to outline what’s been done so
far to stop the leak and clean up the oil, what needs to be done
to mitigate the economic impact and what regulations are needed
to make sure another such incident won’t happen again, according
to  Bill Burton , an administration spokesman.  
 Obama spent yesterday and today along the Gulf Coast
talking with state and local officials and business owners. It
was the president’s fourth trip to the region since the
Deepwater Horizon oil rig exploded and sank eight weeks ago in
an accident that killed 11 workers.  
 Top Priority  
 By using such a formal setting to address the nation, Obama
is signaling to the public that his administration understands
the importance of dealing with the spill and its aftermath, said
Tobe Berkovitz, a professor at  Boston University’s  College of
Communication. “The Oval Office symbolizes the power of the
presidency and the president.”  
 That power will be on display again tomorrow when BP
Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  and other company officials arrive
at the White House, where Obama said he expects to wrap up
discussions with the company about setting up an independently
administered fund to pay out economic damage claims.  
 The administration hasn’t put a figure on the fund. Senate
Democrats, in a letter to BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward , called on the company to set aside $20 billion. Hayward
is scheduled to appear before a House panel June 17.  
 The company reported profit of about $16.6 billion and it
paid $10 billion in dividends to its shareholders last year.  
 BP’s Assets  
 “What’s important to the president as it relates to the
claims process, is that they’re handled fairly, promptly and
that BP has enough money to make these folks whole that were
hurt so much by the spill,” Burton said. “They’ve got plenty
of assets, they’ve got plenty of cash. We’re going to work to
make sure the money’s put in the right place.”  
 Commercial fishing along the Gulf Coast from Texas to
Florida contributes $1 billion to the gross domestic product and
tourism and recreation another $13 billion, according to the
 National Ocean Economics Program .  
 During his visits to the Gulf, Obama has sought to assure
residents of the region that their environment and livelihoods
will be restored.  
 “It’s going to take time for things to return to normal,”
Obama said yesterday after touring a staging facility in
Theodore, Alabama. “But I promise you this: things are going to
return to normal.”  
 The spill has closed as much as 37 percent of the Gulf of
Mexico to fishing, cut offshore drilling in the nation by half
and polluted 140 miles (225 kilometers) of shoreline from
Louisiana to Florida.  
 Political Impact  
 The spill is posing a political threat to Obama as he comes
under criticism from Republicans and some Democrats over the
administration’s reaction. The president is seeking to avoid
comparisons to the bungled response to Hurricane Katrina in 2005
under former President  George W. Bush .  
 Obama said yesterday that some of the damage from the
hurricane was still visible in the area. “But in some ways what
we’re dealing with here is unique because it’s not simply one
catastrophic event,” he said. “It’s an ongoing assault whose
movements are constantly changing.”  
 Republicans will use the oil spill in the November midterm
congressional election and likely the 2012 presidential race
“just like the Democrats used Katrina and Bush,” said  Stuart Rothenberg , publisher of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political
Report. “They’re going to say that he didn’t show great
strength of leadership and that he was too passive and too slow
to react.”  
 Too Soon  
 Still, Rothenberg said it’s too soon to tell whether it
could affect Obama’s chances if he seeks re-election.  
 Even Democrats have been among Obama’s critics.  
 At a June 10  Senate Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs Committee  hearing Senator  Bill Nelson , a Florida
Democrat, said “nobody’s in charge” of the spill clean-up.  
 “How many more examples of this do we have to see until
the command-and-control structure is changed,” Nelson said.  
 Nelson told reporters yesterday in Florida that the
administration is responding.  
 “The White House has been listening to their critics,
including this senator, and I think they are making changes,”
Nelson said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Pensacola, Florida, at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Obama Returns From Gulf Ahead of National Address  
                       
                         
                           Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images 
                         
                         President Barack Obama walks across the White House South Lawn after arriving from an overnight trip to the Gulf Coast. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     President Barack Obama walks across the White House South Lawn after arriving from an overnight trip to the Gulf Coast. Photographer: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
