-- Pentagon Threatens to Dock Lockheed for Flawed Cost Tracking
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2010-06-15T18:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/lockheed-may-be-docked-payments-by-pentagon-over-cost-overruns-schedules.html

          
          
             The U.S. Defense Department will
withhold payments from  Lockheed Martin Corp.  starting as early
as next month if the company doesn’t submit a suitable plan for
fixing problems in its system for tracking contract costs and
schedules, procurement director  Shay Assad  said.  
 The plan is due by June 30 and a decision will come about
three weeks later on whether the world’s largest defense
contractor has demonstrated it can fix the problems within six
to nine months, Assad said in an interview.  
 If the plan is deemed unacceptable, “We are going to take
action to withhold funds,” he said. “The department will
assess all available contractual and regulatory remedies at its
disposal.”  
 Assad said there has been no decision on how much money
might be withheld, and the action could be taken on the $382
billion F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, the Pentagon’s costliest
program. Major U.S. military suppliers are required to track
spending, comparing actual costs and performance against
projections so the Pentagon can spot problems.  
 The Pentagon’s weapon buyer,  Ashton Carter , told Congress
June 1 that Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed has “a systemic,
corporate-level problem,” and the Pentagon “is challenging”
the company “to deal with this issue on all levels.”  
 Increased Oversight  
 Carter is elevating the importance of so-called  tracking 
systems in overseeing contractors’ performance. Assad said an
office set up under legislation last year aimed at reforming the
weapons acquisition process is examining the systems that track
major programs.  
 Assad said he warned senior Lockheed contracting officials
that the Pentagon might withhold fees.  
 Lockheed’s system has been under review since the Pentagon
audited its performance at a plant in Fort Worth, Texas, where
the F-35 is built. A November 2007 audit said the system was
deficient in 19 of 32 criteria.  
 Lockheed’s Aeronautics unit, which includes its plant in
Fort Worth, had $12.2 billion in 2009 net sales, or about 27
percent of the company’s $45.1 billion total. The unit also
 accounted  for 34 percent of Lockheed’s 2009 operating profit.  
 Lockheed spokesman Joe Stout said the company has been
“working closely” with the Pentagon “to develop a plan that
will address all issues and lead to resolution of all
concerns.”  
 “We expect” the Pentagon “to approve details of our plan
and we are committed to demonstrating full compliance,” he said
in an e-mailed statement.  
 “I think they believe they are making a good-faith effort
to address” the problems with the tracking system, Assad said.
“But from my perspective, frankly, it’s just not been timely or
sufficient.”  
 “On as big a program as” the F-35 “you would think they
would have” the tracking system “under control,” Assad said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Pentagon Threatens to Dock Lockheed  
                       
                         
                           Lockheed Martin Corp./via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Lockheed Martin Corp.'s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter is the Pentagon's costliest program. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Lockheed Martin Corp.'s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter is the Pentagon's costliest program. Source: Lockheed Martin Corp./via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
