-- Loehmann's Said to Hire Firms to Advise on Retailer Turnaround
-- Serena Saitto
-- 2010-06-15T22:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/loehmann-s-is-said-to-hire-three-firms-to-advise-on-retailer-s-turnaround.html

          
          
             Loehmann’s Inc. , the New York-based
seller of discounted designer goods, hired three firms to help
advise the retailer on a turnaround, according to people with
knowledge of the situation.  
 The company engaged Southfield, Michigan-based AlixPartners
LLP, Perella Weinberg Partners and Clear Thinking Group LLC,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
information isn’t public. Loehmann’s declined to comment on
whether it had hired those three firms for competitive reasons.  
 “Loehmann’s periodically utilizes the resources of
external specialty advisers, experienced in a variety of
business areas, who are extremely knowledgeable about the retail
industry and help us operate our business even more
efficiently,” Mara Kelly, Loehmann’s vice president of
marketing, said in an e-mailed statement. “The hiring of
outside consultants is common practice at many retailers and
Loehmann’s has involved external experts at different times in
recent years.”  
 The advisers were hired to boost cash flow and profit at
the retailer, the people said. They will also weigh options
including a debt restructuring or sale, one person said.  
 Loehmann’s sells clothes from brands such as  Michael Kors ,
Calvin Klein and Donna Karan at more than 60 stores in 16
states. U.S. retailers’ sales dropped during the economic slump
as consumers, whose spending accounts for about 70 percent of
the U.S. economy, tried to conserve cash.  
 Bronx Origins  
 Istithmar World PJSC, parent company of Loehmann’s and the
investment arm of state-owned holding company Dubai World,
reached an agreement last month with its main creditor group to
restructure more than $20 billion in debt. Istithmar granted
Loehmann’s a three-year extension of an $8 million standby
letter of  credit  last year, according to a letter to vendors.  
 Matt Sawicki, a spokesman for Hillsborough, New Jersey-
based Clear Thinking Group, declined to comment. Tim Yost, a
spokesman for AlixPartners, and  Kara Findlay  at New York-based
Perella also declined to comment.  
 Frieda Loehmann opened the retailer in the Bronx in 1921 to
sell designer names at discounts. The company filed for Chapter
11 bankruptcy protection in May 1999 amid a proliferation of
discount chains and emerged the following year after cutting
more than $140 million in debt, closing 25 stores and rejecting
takeover offers from two other discount chains.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lauren Coleman-Lochner  in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        