-- Honda to Improve Worker Communication After China Strikes
-- Yuki Hagiwara
-- 2010-06-16T04:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/honda-works-to-improve-employee-communication-after-china-supplier-strikes.html

          
          
             Honda Motor Co. , grappling with the
worst strikes to hit its 18-year-old Chinese manufacturing
business, said it needs to improve communication with employees
in the nation after the walkouts took the company by surprise.  
 “We couldn’t predict the strikes,”  Yoshiyuki Kuroda , a
spokesman for the Tokyo-based carmaker, said in a phone
interview. “We need to have more opportunities for managers to
listen to employees regularly.”  
 Honda, Japan’s second-biggest automaker, made the statement
after strikes at two suppliers in China halted its car output in
the nation for the first time and forced the company to raise
wages. A third strike, at the  Honda Lock (Guangdong) Co.  parts
factory in Zhongshan, Guangdong province, is suspended until
June 18 while union leaders and management negotiate over pay.  
 There are no effective channels in China for workers and
management to negotiate, said  Geoffrey Crothall , a spokesman for
the Hong Kong-based advocacy group  China Labour Bulletin .
Discussions between the parties are handled by government-linked
union officials who aren’t elected by the workers, he said.  
 “Very often, you get an accumulation of complaints related
to working conditions, the attitude of managers,” Crothall said.
“Gradually, things build up and it just takes one incident to
push the workers to strike.”  
 Honda is trying to set up a system that will enable a flow
of communication from workers via managers to Japanese company
officials and Honda’s management team, said Kuroda, the company
spokesman. He declined to elaborate on the measures.  
 Suggestion Boxes  
 Honda  rose  1.4 percent to 2,755 yen as of 1:36 p.m. in
Tokyo trading, while the benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average 
advanced 2 percent.  
 Zhang Jun, a worker at Honda Lock’s Zhongshan factory, said
suggestion boxes scattered around the plant are the only means
of feedback from employees to their section leaders. Zhang sees
his Japanese section leader daily but never speaks to him,
because of language difficulties, he said.  
 “When we don’t know what the other party is thinking,
confusion develops,” Zhang said in a phone interview.  
 Honda Lock, wholly owned by Honda Motor, operates the
Zhongshan factory through a joint venture with the local
township government. The plant supplies key systems, door
handles and sensors for  Honda’s Chinese car production .  
 Disruptions at overseas manufacturers including Honda and
Taiwan’s Foxconn Technology Group reflect pressure for higher
pay in China, where a shrinking pool of low-cost labor may boost
consumption and inflation.  
 ‘Tide of Higher Wages’  
 “There is a tide of higher wages, and anyone, any company
getting in the way, will get knocked over,” said  Edwin Merner ,
who oversees $3 billion as president of Atlantis Investment
Research Corp. in Tokyo. Rising prices in China for housing and
food “will mean continuing pressure on wages,” he said.  
 Workers attending a June 12 protest at the Zhongshan plant
said they were inspired to take action after hearing that Honda
raised salaries for striking employees at a parts plant in
Foshan, Guangdong, last month.  
 Honda said May 31 it agreed to increase pay by 24 percent
at the Foshan factory to end a walkout that shut production at
all four of its Chinese car-assembly plants.  
 Foxconn, the assembler of Apple Inc.’s iPhones founded by
 Terry Gou , has raised salaries and hired counselors after at
least 10 workers killed themselves at its China factories this
year.  
 Worker Protests  
 Honda Lock employees attending the June 12 rally hissed and
yelled at a factory official who addressed them with a bullhorn,
asking them to enter the factory. The workers refused, shouting
that the general manager should come out and talk to them
instead.  
 Liu Shengqi, a former protest leader, said he saw cars near
the factory with signs saying Honda Lock was hiring workers. The
New York Times reported the company hired replacement workers to
help restore operations. Honda Lock has declined to comment on
the report.  
 Honda started manufacturing in China in 1992, beginning
with motorcycles, spokesman Kuroda said.  Toyota Motor Corp. ,
Japan’s largest automaker, and Nissan Motor Co., the third-
largest, also build cars in Guangdong.  
 “We are telling our suppliers in China to speak to the
labor unions so that we have a smooth operation there,”
Nissan’s Chief Operating Officer  Toshiyuki Shiga  said last week
in Yokohama, where the company is based.  
 Toyota Talks  
 Toyota holds talks with its Chinese workers every year from
April to May, said  Paul Nolasco , a Tokyo-based spokesman for the
company. Wages are rising, he said, declining to disclose the
carmaker’s average pay in the country.  
 “Toyota tries to listen to workers in China, always, to
prevent strikes,” Nolasco said.  
 Workers and management at Honda Lock’s Zhongshan plant have
set a June 18 deadline to reach an agreement, said Liu, the
former protest leader.  
 Hirotoshi Sato , a spokesman for Miyazaki, Japan-based Honda
Lock, said the company “will listen to workers’ demands again
and give an answer” at that time. He declined to say what the
company has offered or what workers are demanding.  
 Liu and Zhang, the plant worker, said Honda Lock has
proposed a 200 yuan monthly pay increase. Dayshift workers were
offered an additional 3 yuan per day and night workers 14 yuan
per shift, Liu said.  
 Employees, who began striking on June 9, have demanded a 72
percent raise to 1,600 yuan ($234) a month and higher overtime
wages, Honda said on June 10. The factory employs about 1,400
people.  
 Car Production  
 About 90 percent of employees are unhappy with the 200 yuan
offer, according to Zhang, the plant worker. If a deal isn’t
reached this week, they will go back on strike, Liu said.  
 It’s too soon to say whether the disruptions at the plant
may affect Honda’s car assembly in China, said Takayuki Fujii, a
Beijing-based spokesman for  Honda Motor . So far, the carmaker
has had a sufficient stock of parts to keep factories running.  
 “Over the short term, there is very limited impact on
Honda’s sales volume as they have inventories,” said Yankun Hou,
an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong.  
 Honda’s two car plants in Guangzhou, Guangdong, were shut
yesterday and will remain closed today for a public holiday,
said  Tomoko Uchida , a spokeswoman for the company in Tokyo.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liza Lin  in Singapore at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A worker stands inside the Honda Lock (Guangdong) Co. factory in Zhongshan, Guangdong province, China. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
