-- Hong Kong's Stock Exchange Met With Mongolian Mining Companies on Listing
-- Hanny Wan
-- 2010-06-15T23:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/hong-kong-s-stock-exchange-met-with-mongolian-mining-companies-on-listing.html

          
          
             Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. 
has met Mongolian mining companies seeking to list in the city,
said Chief Marketing Officer  Lawrence Fok , who is in the North
Asian country for a forum on corporate capital raising.  
 Hong Kong Exchanges, which operates Asia’s third-largest
stock market, is processing more than 70 initial public offering
applications from both overseas and local companies, Fok said in
an interview in Ulaanbaatar yesterday. He declined to name the
Mongolian companies or give a time frame for possible listings.  
 “Hopefully there will be more companies using Hong Kong as
a platform,”  Fok  said. “Mongolia and other resource-rich
countries share the same characteristics of having a small
population and massive resources, which would benefit from
China’s economic growth and its rising demand for resources.”  
 Funds raised on the Hong Kong market through initial public
offerings surged 276 percent to HK$248 billion in 2009 from a
year earlier, the exchange said on March 4. The bourse has been
targeting listings from emerging markets, particularly companies
in the energy, metals and mining industries.  
 Energy, mining and resources companies account for about 16
percent of both Hong Kong’s  market capitalization  and daily
trading volume, Fok said. Apart from Mongolia, the Hong Kong
stock exchange has also met with companies with assets in
Kazakhstan, Tajikstan, Russia and Indonesia, he said.  
 Between six and eight companies are listed in Hong Kong
that possess assets in Mongolia, Fok said. The Hong Kong-traded
stock of Vancouver-based  SouthGobi Resources Ltd.  has slumped 28
percent in the past three months. The company started production
at its open-cast coal mine in southern Mongolia last year to
meet Chinese demand.  
 Energy, Infrastructure  
 Mongolian companies “have the story about China’s economic
growth and its increasing demand for resources,” Fok said.  
 Major state-owned companies and assets in energy- and
infrastructure-related industries are among those that will seek
to raise money selling shares in international and local stock
exchanges, Mongolian Prime Minister Sukhbaatar Batbold said at a
forum in Hong Kong on April 12.  
 Mongolia’s companies are seeking to raise funds overseas as
they struggle to attract investors in a market with thin trading
volume.  
 The average daily turnover of the Mongolian exchange is
about $100,000 this year, according to Khangai Altai, chief
operating officer of the Mongolian Stock Exchange. That compares
with HK$64 billion in Hong Kong, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Ulaanbaatar via Hong Kong newsroom at  
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        