-- Moody's Greek Downgrade `Unwarranted,' Ruling CDU Lawmaker Meister Says
-- Rainer Buergin
-- 2010-06-15T14:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/moody-s-greek-downgrade-unwarranted-ruling-cdu-lawmaker-meister-says.html

          
          
             The decision by Moody’s Investors
Service to downgrade Greece was wrong and reinforces Europe’s
resolve to set up an independent rating company, a senior
lawmaker from German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party said.  
 Michael Meister , the finance spokesman in parliament for
Merkel’s Christian Democrats, said that he “can’t understand at
all” Greece’s four-notch drop at Moody’s. “Just when a
government is going down the right track, it’s being hit by a
rating downgrade,” Meister said today in an interview.  
 Greece’s credit rating was cut yesterday to Ba1 non-
investment grade from A3 by Moody’s, threatening to undermine
the Greek government’s efforts to rein in the euro region’s
second-biggest deficit. The cut to junk “doesn’t reflect the
efforts nor the very real results we are getting,” Greek
Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said.  
 “I have a bad feeling about the fact that all rating
agencies are based in the Anglo-American world,” Meister, 49,
said in his office in Berlin. “That’s why it’s urgently
necessary to have rating companies outside of this area that can
play a decisive role internationally.”  
 Germany is championing a European rating agency and a
global financial-transaction tax while urging fellow euro-area
members to tighten their budgets to halt the spread of Europe’s
debt crisis. Merkel’s government last month backed as much as
148 billion euros ($182 billion) in loans to stabilize the euro
on top of 22.4 billion euros for Greece. The 16-member currency
has still fallen to a four-year low against the U.S. dollar.  
 Meister said that German lawmakers are not willing to back
any more funds for euro-area nations, refusing to enter into a
so-called transfer union in which money goes from richer
northern states to indebted southern states.  
 “We don’t want a transfer union and I think nobody should
push the patience of the German Bundestag to the brink on this
matter,” Meister said. “Everybody taking a relaxed view on
this in other countries better take note.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        