-- Oracle Faces False Claims Act Suit Over Discounting
-- David Voreacos
-- 2010-07-29T22:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/oracle-faces-suit-by-u-s-claiming-government-deceived-on-software-prices.html

          
          
             Oracle Corp.,  the world’s second-
biggest software maker, was sued today by the U.S. Justice
Department, which claimed the company overcharged the government
on a contract worth hundreds of millions of dollars.  
 Oracle defrauded the government on a software contract with
the General Services Administration between 1998 and 2006,
according to the complaint. The company failed to give the
government the same discounts it offered its most favored
commercial customers, the Justice Department claims.  
 “Oracle’s false statements and fraudulent conduct in the
negotiation and performance of the contract led to the
submission of false claims for payment to the United States,”
according to the complaint, filed in federal court in
Alexandria, Virginia.  
 The U.S. lawsuit follows its intervention in a case filed
in 2007 by Paul Frascella, a former Oracle employee who made
similar claims. The False Claims Act lets private citizens sue
on behalf of the government and share in any recovery. The
Justice Department says it is cracking down on procurement
fraud.  
 ‘Taxpayers Suffer’  
 “We take seriously allegations that a government
contractor has dealt dishonestly with the United States,”  Tony West , assistant attorney general for the Justice Department’s
civil division, said in a statement. “When contractors
misrepresent their business practices to the government,
taxpayers suffer.”  
 Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Redwood City,
California-based Oracle, didn’t return a phone call and e-mail
seeking comment.  
 A Justice Department statement said the contract was worth
hundreds of millions of dollars, while the complaint said Oracle
reported $1.08 billion in sales for software licenses and
maintenance under the contract.  
 The complaint doesn’t specify an amount of damages, saying
it would be determined at trial. Frascella’s complaint, which
was unsealed April 2 when the government joined his case, said
Oracle overcharged the government by tens of millions of
dollars. The government’s complaint offers more detail on the
contract.  
 21 Agencies  
 It claims that 21 different executive agencies made
purchases, including the Treasury, Defense and State
departments.  
 The GSA negotiated so-called Multiple Award Schedule pacts
with Oracle, according to the complaint. Once companies secure
such contracts, government agencies may order products on GSA
schedules without going through elaborate procurement programs.  
 In return, the government is supposed to get discounts
equal to or greater than the discount given to that firm’s most
favored customer, and contractors are supposed to report such
discounts, according to the complaint.  
 The complaint claims that starting in 1997, Oracle falsely
told the GSA that it was getting the best prices when it was
not.  
 In October 2006, Oracle paid $98.5 million to settle a
False Claims Act lawsuit over GSA Multiple Award Schedule
pricing disclosures at PeopleSoft Inc., a software maker. Oracle
bought PeopleSoft in January 2005 for $10.3 billion.  
 The complaint, filed in 2003 by whistleblower James Hicks,
was joined in 2006 by the Justice Department.  
 Oracle fell 58 cents to $23.70 today in Nasdaq stock market
trading.  
 The case is U.S. v. Oracle Corp., 1:07-cv-00529, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net 
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Buildings stand on the Oracle Corp. headquarters in Redwood City, California. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
