-- Morgan Stanley's Roach Sees Seeds of New Crisis in `Stimulative Positions'
-- Francine Lacqua
-- 2010-06-15T09:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/morgan-stanley-s-roach-sees-seeds-of-new-crisis-in-stimulative-positions-.html

          
          
             Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd. Chairman
 Stephen Roach  said governments and central banks may be sowing
the seeds of a future crisis by keeping overly accommodative
monetary and fiscal policy stances for too long.  
 “Policy makers are making a mistake by pretty much”
maintaining policies “in stimulative positions for too long,”
Roach said today in a Bloomberg Television interview from Hong
Kong. “It ends up setting the stage for the next crisis.”  
 Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said on June 10
that the U.S. recovery isn’t as strong as he would like and that
the impact of Europe’s sovereign debt crisis must be considered,
suggesting the central bank remains attached to its pledge to
keep interest rates at a record low for an “extended period.”  
 President Barack Obama’s administration is forecasting a
record annual budget deficit of $1.6 trillion. The shortfall is
projected to be $10 trillion over the next 10 years, with
interest payments on debt forecast by the Congressional Budget
Office to quadruple to more than $900 billion annually.  
 “Excess sovereign debt is a problem that is endemic in the
developed world,” Roach said. “At this point in time, we still
have ample slack in the global economy and an absence of
inflation pressures, but with central banks likely to remain
excessively accommodative for an extended period of time, then
the current benign environment could give way to more serious
inflation further down the road.”  
 Wild Card  
 The “big wild card” in the global economy is rising trade
tensions between the U.S. and China, Roach said. Chinese exports
rose 48.5 percent in May, helping yield a $19.5 billion  trade
surplus  for the month.  
 U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham said on June 11 that
legislation aimed at getting China to raise the value of its
currency has “huge” support in Congress, and Obama “runs the
risk” of being overridden if he vetoes it.  
 “I’m fairly worried given the politics in Washington and
the relatively high unemployment in the U.S.,” Roach said.
“The U.S.-China trade imbalance is large, but it’s important to
keep in mind America ran” a trade deficit with 90 countries
last year. “We have a multilateral trade problem because we
don’t save. You don’t fix that by forcing one of your partners
to achieve a bilateral currency adjustment.”  
 Roach also said that India needs to raise interest rates to
stem a jump in prices.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
 Francine Lacqua  in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        