-- Morgan Stanley to Hire 50 Percent More Private Bankers in India in a Year
-- Pooja Thakur
-- 2010-06-15T04:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/morgan-stanley-to-hire-50-percent-more-private-bankers-in-india-in-a-year.html

          
          
             Morgan Stanley  plans to increase the
number of private bankers in India by 50 percent within a year,
 Amitava Neogi , executive director at Morgan Stanley’s Indian
wealth management unit, said in an interview yesterday.  
 “The wealth in Asia and emerging markets is growing thanks
to economic growth,” said Mumbai-based Neogi, who plans to add
20 advisers to the 40 employed in the South Asian nation.
“India has favorable demographics, entrepreneurial spirit and a
growing young population with increasing purchasing power.”  
 India’s economy expanded 8.6 percent in the three months
through March. The number of billionaires in the nation rose to
52 from 27, Forbes magazine said last year.  
 Wealth in the Asia-Pacific region, excluding Japan, is
expected to rise at almost double the global rate, according to
an annual study by the Boston Consulting Group.  
 The region will increase its share of global wealth from 15
percent last year to almost 20 percent in 2014, with China and
India the engines of growth, according to the report released on
June 10. Together, the two countries will make up 75 percent, or
almost $9 trillion, of the increase in assets managed in the
region.  
 Asian billionaires including India’s  Mukesh Ambani  and Hong
Kong’s  Li Ka-shing  increased their wealth as the region’s rich
expanded their fortunes at the world’s quickest pace in the past
year, Forbes said.  
 Morgan Stanley plans to double its private bankers in Asia
over the next three years,  Charles Mak , head of private wealth
management for Asia, has said.  
 The bank is competing with rivals including  UBS AG ,
 Citigroup Inc.  and Credit Suisse Group AG to hire financial
advisers in a market with an estimated $7.4 trillion of private
riches. The combined wealth of Asia-Pacific millionaires will
increase 8.8 percent annually until 2018, compared with a global
average of 7.1 percent, according to a report by Capgemini SA
and Merrill Lynch Wealth Management.  
 Morgan Stanley currently manages about 1,000 family
accounts in India and expects the number to rise to between
2,000 and 3,000 accounts, Neogi said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        