-- Osborne Should Cut Taxes for Rich, Slash U.K. Health Spending, Reform Says
-- Thomas Penny
-- 2010-06-16T09:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/osborne-should-cut-taxes-for-the-rich-slash-health-spending-reform-says.html

          
          
             U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  should cut funding for health, education and
jobless benefits and reduce taxes for the rich in his emergency
budget next week, the Reform research institute said.  
 Reform, which includes lawmakers on its advisory board from
both the Conservative and Liberal Democrat parties that make up
the U.K.’s governing coalition, said the chancellor should also
increase sales tax on children’s clothes and food while means-
testing or cutting benefits for families and the elderly.  
 “Tackling the  deficit  will be an undeniably painful
process given the size of the deficit, the inefficiency of the
public sector and the overreach of the government,”  Andrew Haldenby , Reform’s director, said in an e-mailed statement.
“The pain should be shared across society.”  
 Prime Minister  David Cameron  pledged before the May 6
election that brought him to power to protect spending on the
National Health Service and overseas aid, while the Liberal
Democrats argued that no area of government expenditure should
be out-of-bounds. Osborne will announce his emergency budget on
June 22.  
 Middle-class families receive 31 billion pounds ($46
billion) in welfare through programs including universal child
benefit, the winter fuel allowance for pensioners and statutory
maternity pay,  Reform  said today in its report, “Taking the
Tough Choices.” There is “an immediate need to claw back these
benefits to lower the overall costs of welfare,” to help cut
the near-record 155 billion-pound deficit.  
 Bigger Hole  
 The new Office for Budget Responsibility said June 14 that
Britain has a bigger budget hole to fill than the previous
Labour government forecast. Reform said its proposals would
almost close the 82 billion-pound shortfall foreseen by Labour
in 2014.  
 Abolishing the 50 percent top tax rate on earnings over
150,000 pounds and reinstating pension tax relief for high
earners would make Britain a more attractive investment location
for global companies, the report said. It drew on models
developed by Canada, New Zealand and Ireland in tackling their
deficits.  
 “Because the cuts were sharp and deep they worked,”  Paul Martin , who was Canada’s finance minister when the country
reduced its public debt by 20 percentage points of economic
output in the 1990s, wrote in a foreword to the report. “The
vicious circle turned virtuous and the positive payback was not
long in coming.”  
 Health Trimmings  
 Osborne should trim 20 billion pounds of spending in the
National Health Service, 18 billion pounds from government and
the police and 12 billion pounds from spending on schools and
universities in the next four years, the report said. Savings
would come through greater efficiency and more use of the
private sector to deliver services.  
 Labor unions said such cuts risk plunging the U.K. into a
double-dip recession by choking off fragile economic growth. The
government should raise taxes for the most wealthy and work for
an international strategy for growth, said  Brendan Barber ,
general secretary of the Trades Union Congress.  
 “Voters did not vote for cuts in health, education,
pensions, the police and for privatizing the road under their
feet,” Barber said in an e-mailed statement. “The cuts program
increasingly looks less like economics and more like a political
project to restructure the state and roll back support for not
just the poor and vulnerable but the services on which middle-
income Britain depends.”  
 A TUC  report , entitled “All Pain No Gain: The Case Against
Cuts,” said Canada’s deficit-reduction program was successful
because there was a growing global economy, not because of
spending cuts. Economic expansion is the only way to tackle the
deficit, it concluded.  
 Evidence from Canada, the U.K. in the 1980s and Ireland
since 2008 shows the cuts caused a decline in public services,
rising unemployment and increased suffering for the most
vulnerable, the TUC report said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        