-- Emerging-Market Stocks Climb for Sixth Day; Russia's Micex Gains on Oil
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-06-15T21:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/most-emerging-market-stocks-advance-on-china-economic-growth-chip-outlook.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks rose for a
sixth day, the longest winning streak in two months, as rising
oil prices lifted energy companies and investors speculated the
global economic recovery is intact.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose 0.8 percent to 937.68
by 5 p.m. in New York, rebounding from an early decline spurred
by Moody’s Investors Service’s four-level downgrade of Greece.
Russia’s  Micex Index  advanced 2.6 percent and the ruble
strengthened 1.4 percent against the dollar as oil traded above
$76 a barrel in New York. The extra yield on emerging-market
debt over Treasuries fell nine basis points to 3.14 percentage
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  
 Energy  shares  contributed the most to the developing
nations’ benchmark gain before an oil stockpiles report tomorrow
that may show growing U.S. demand. Chinese shares traded in Hong
Kong advanced for a sixth day, the longest stretch of gains
since February 2009, after a leading indicator for the world’s
fastest-growing major economy jumped by the most in 14 months in
April. Factories in New York expanded for an 11th month,
according to a report today.  
 Growth prospects in “emerging markets and Asia in
particular are still strong”  Piero Ghezzi , head of economics
and emerging-markets research at Barclays Capital, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Singapore. Europe’s debt
problems “will have an impact only to the extent that this
really becomes a full-blown crisis, which we don’t see.”  
 Micex Rally  
 MSCI’s 21-country emerging markets index has dropped 10
percent from this year’s  high  on April 15 amid concern Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis and China’s efforts to curb real-estate
speculation will derail the global economic expansion.  
 The Micex climbed the most among benchmark indexes in the
world’s 50 biggest equity markets. OAO Gazprom, Russia’s state-
controlled gas producer, advanced 2.1 percent while steelmaker
OAO Severstal jumped 3.8 percent and OAO Sberbank rose 5.1
percent.  
 Russian stocks are trading at the cheapest level compared
with corporate bonds since January 2009, just before the Micex
began its biggest rally in a decade. JPMorgan’s Corporate EMBI
Russia Index yields 7.1 percent, versus a 12 percent yield on
profits of Micex companies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index advanced 1.4 percent to a one-
month high. Airlines Tam SA and Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes
SA led gains after air travel by Brazilian carriers grew in May,
easing concern competition will spur lower prices. Mexico’s  IPC
benchmark  index climbed to the highest in six weeks.  
 Mexican  stocks  remain a “top pick” in Latin America as
consumption recovers and inflation expectations drop, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. said. Mexico’s IPC benchmark index of stocks will
climb 19 percent to 38,500 by the end of the year, JPMorgan
strategists wrote in an e-mailed report dated yesterday.  
 Hungary Debt Demand  
 The MSCI China Index  climbed 0.1 percent. The Conference
Board’s gauge of leading indicators gained 1.7 percent to 147.1
in April, compared with a revised 1.2 percent increase in March.  
 Demand at Hungary’s debt auction today was almost double
the planned amount, signaling a return of investor confidence
after the government’s failure to raise the full amount offered
at an auction last week. The state debt management agency sold
45 billion forint ($196 million) of three-month Treasury bills
at an average yield of 5.28 percent, up from 5.26 percent at the
previous auction on June 8, according to auction results on the
debt management agency’s Bloomberg page.  
 The Dubai Financial Market General Index  dropped 1.3
percent to the lowest closing level since March 2009, after
 Tristan Cooper , a Moody’s analyst, said in an interview in Abu
Dhabi that the emirate’s state-owned companies may have to
restructure more debt.  
 The four-step downgrade of Greece’s rating by Moody’s to Ba1
from A3 reflects “substantial” risks to economic growth from
austerity measures tied to an aid package from the European
Union and the International Monetary Fund, the ratings company
said yesterday. Greece was rated junk by Standard & Poor’s.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        