-- Lawmakers Weigh Changes to Bank, Private-Equity Proposals
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-06-16T00:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/house-senate-negotiators-weigh-changes-to-bank-private-equity-proposals.html

          
          
             House and Senate negotiators
resolving differences between two versions of the financial-
regulation bill today approved a compromise aimed at reducing
conflicts in the assignment of credit ratings.  
 The negotiators agreed to give the Securities and Exchange
Commission the authority to set up a system for assigning
credit-rating companies to determine bond ratings, rather than
having the issuer select the company. The SEC would have to
study the idea first and report findings to Congress.  
 The compromise reflects elements of an amendment offered by
Senator  Al Franken , a Minnesota Democrat, that would set up a
ratings board overseen by the SEC to assign a company to
evaluate an offering. Franken’s proposal won support from 64
senators during a vote last month.  
 “We ended up with the best of all worlds,” Senate Banking
Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , the top Senate negotiator,
told reporters today after negotiators met. “You end up with a
Franken concept that’s going to be worked on and studied and
implemented over the next few years.”  
 Negotiators today also backed proposed changes to
provisions dealing with banking regulation, the insurance
industry and private-equity funds, as they seek to merge a bill
the House approved in December with a version the Senate
produced last month. The measures, marking the biggest overhaul
of Wall Street rules since the Great Depression, aim to prevent
a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis.  
 Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat who
is leading the talks, said he expects negotiators to vote on the
final product June 24.  
 Deposit Insurance  
 Negotiators approved a proposal to permanently raise the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s insurance limit on individual
deposits to $250,000 from $100,000 and make the higher amount
retroactive to Jan. 1, 2008. They decided to continue
negotiating a proposal to extend the FDIC’s Transaction Account
Guarantee Program, which gives companies unlimited support for
non-interest bearing accounts.  
 Retroactively extending coverage would help IndyMac Bancorp
Inc. customers recoup lost deposits after the California-based
mortgage lender failed in July 2008.  
 Negotiators agreed to modifications that would require
investment advisers to private-equity funds to register with the
SEC and require venture-capital firms to keep records and
provide reports to the SEC.  
 The lawmakers also approved changes to a provision that
creates a federal insurance office, including a requirement that
the Treasury Department coordinate international insurance
agreement negotiations with the U.S. Trade Representative.  
 Negotiators will resume meeting tomorrow to weigh changes
dealing with investor protections, executive compensation and
Federal Reserve authority.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Representative Barney Frank is leading the talks on the financial-regulation bill. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
