-- Patriot Coal Suspends Output at West Virginia Mine After Roof Collapses
-- Mario Parker
-- 2010-06-15T15:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/patriot-coal-suspends-output-at-west-virginia-mine-after-roof-collapses.html

          
          
             Patriot Coal Corp. , the fourth-
largest eastern U.S. coal company, said output is shut at its
mine in Boone County, West Virginia, until at least the end of
the month after it had a roof fall.  
 The Harris No. 1 mine in Patriot’s Rocklick complex had a
roof fall on its main line belt on June 12, St. Louis-based
Patriot said in a statement today. The operation produces
metallurgical coal, used to manufacture steel.  
 “The company believes that production will be suspended at
Harris through the end of the month,” the statement said. “The
lower production is expected to negatively impact second-quarter
earnings.”  
 Patriot fell 54 cents, or 3.2 percent, to $16.34 at 10:56
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have gained 5.7 percent this year.  
 The company  said  in April that it expected to sell 33
million to 35 million tons of coal this year, including 7.5
million tons of metallurgical coal, which fetches a higher price
than thermal coal.  
 “This is obviously not good news,” said  Amer Tiwana , an
analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.
“They’ve had issues in the past and this trend seems to be
worrisome.”  
 Patriot temporarily shut its Federal No. 2 mine near
Fairview, West Virginia, in February and again in March after
finding methane. In April, the company said it received a U.S.
subpoena requesting methane detection systems equipment used at
the Federal mine since July 2008.  
 “They obviously said it’s going to impact second-quarter
earnings but they didn’t say how much,” Tiwana said.
“Nevertheless, this seems to be a trend where they’ve had quite
a few incidents in a short time frame.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        