-- Peru's GDP Rose Greater-Than-Forecast 9.3% in April on Consumer Spending
-- John Quigley
-- 2010-06-15T16:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/peru-s-gdp-rose-greater-than-forecast-9-3-in-april-on-consumer-spending.html

          
          
             Peru’s  economy  expanded at the
fastest pace since 2008 in April as company and household
spending boosted demand for goods and services.  
 Gross domestic product rose 9.3 percent from the same month
a year earlier, the government’s  statistics agency  said today.
Economists forecast growth of 8.8 percent, according to the
median estimates of nine economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  
 South America’s sixth-largest economy is rebounding as
rising private spending spurs manufacturing, construction and
retailing. Economic growth is “moving very fast,” forcing the
central bank to adjust  monetary policy  with higher rates, said
 Bertrand Delgado , a senior Latin American economist at RGE
Monitor, a research company in New York.  
 “Domestic demand is growing, albeit from a very low base,
so Peru doesn’t have the demand growth pressures that Brazil
has,” Delgado said in a telephone interview. “GDP growth
should be in line with potential this year.”  
 Construction, manufacturing and retail accounted for 5.2
percentage points of April’s expansion, the statistics agency
said.  
 Peru’s GDP surged 8.8 percent in March from a year earlier,
raising concern that the economy could overheat. Central bank
President  Julio Velarde , speaking at the Bloomberg Peru Economic
Summit on June 9, said there is a danger of overheating though
there are no signs of it yet.  
 Policy, Jobs  
 Finance Minister  Mercedes Araoz  said June 11 that there was
no need for additional fiscal measures to cool the economy after
the government began to rein in spending last month.  
 In a separate report today, the statistics agency reported
that the  unemployment rate  fell to 7.7 percent last month, down
from 9 percent in April and 9.2 percent in March.  
 The central bank on June 10 raised its reference rate by a
quarter percentage point to 1.75 percent, the second straight
increase. Policy makers also raised the overnight rate by a
quarter point at their May meeting.  
 The bank said May 28 the economy may expand 6.2 percent
this year. It had forecast 2010 economic growth of 5.5 percent
in a March 26 report.  
 Peru’s sol rose 0.2 percent to 2.8375 per dollar at 12:28
p.m. New York time from 2.8430 on June 14.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        