-- Philippines' Budget Deficit May Widen This Year on Plan to Boost Spending
-- Cecilia Yap
-- 2010-06-15T12:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/philippines-budget-deficit-may-widen-this-year-on-plan-to-boost-spending.html

          
          
             The Philippines expects its  budget
deficit  to widen to a record amid plans to boost spending and
attain faster economic growth, government officials said.  
 The country raised this year’s gross domestic product
growth target to a range of 5 percent to 6 percent while keeping
the deficit-to-GDP ratio at 3.6 percent, economic officials said
in a statement today after a meeting. The shortfall may widen to
about 300 billion pesos ($6.5 billion) in 2010 as GDP expands to
8.35 trillion pesos, Finance Undersecretary  Gil Beltran  said.  
 Growth quickened to 7.3 percent  last quarter , the fastest
pace in almost three years. While President-elect  Benigno Aquino ,
50, who takes over from  Gloria Arroyo  this month, has described
the expansion as a “flash in the pan,” better economic
forecasts may help him stick to his campaign pledge to refrain
from raising taxes.  
 “We must maintain the growth momentum,” Economic Planning
Secretary  Augusto Santos  told reporters after the meeting. “The
government has to spend on infrastructure, social services and
environmental protection.”  Unemployment  climbed to 8 percent in
April, the most in two years, a government report today showed.  
 The gap between revenue and spending widened to a record
298.5 billion pesos in 2009 and was originally projected to
narrow to 293.2 billion pesos this year.  
 The new GDP growth target, raised from a previous range of
2.6 percent to 3.6 percent, would be the fastest pace since 2007.
Growth slowed to the  least in 11 years  in 2009.  
 “We are confident this kind of growth will be sustainable
all throughout 2010,” Budget Secretary  Joaquin Lagonera  said.  
 Higher Revenue  
 Collection at the Bureau of Internal Revenue, responsible
for more than 60 percent of state income, may rise by 30 billion
pesos while the Customs agency may boost revenue by 5 billion
pesos with the faster growth, Finance Secretary  Gary Teves  said.  
 Every percentage point added to GDP growth may bring in 13
billion pesos annually in tax revenue, giving “flexibility” on
government spending, Finance Assistant Secretary  Ma. Teresa Habitan  said in a telephone interview today before the meeting.  
 The government may have breached its first-half deficit
target in May, Teves said. Aquino said last month that estimates
on the 2010 shortfall are already at 400 billion pesos.  
 “A higher deficit would mean more borrowing, more supply
of debt,” said  Dave Estacio , chief fixed-income dealer at First
Metro Investment Corp. in Manila, before the meeting. “Faster
growth also implies higher interest rates. The trend is for bond
yields to rise.”  
 The yield on four-year benchmark local-currency bonds was
unchanged from June 11 at 5.73 percent, the lowest since the
bonds were first sold in January 2009.  
 The government still plans to sell 30 billion pesos of
assets this year, Teves said. “We still need to do the run,”
Treasurer  Roberto Tan  said in a mobile message when asked on
changes to this year’s borrowing plan with the higher deficit.  
 Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will maintain an
“appropriately prudent monetary policy,” Deputy Governor  Diwa Guinigundo  said in today’s statement. The central bank’s
benchmark interest rate is at a record low 4 percent.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Clarissa Batino  in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
 Karl Lester M. Yap  in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        