-- Pimco Says Commercial Property to Stay 40% Below Peak on Distressed Assets
-- Dan Levy
-- 2010-06-16T01:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/pimco-says-commercial-property-facing-a-slow-rebound-on-distressed-assets.html

          
          
             U.S. commercial property values are
rebounding slowly and may remain as much as 40 percent below
their 2007 peak levels, Pacific Investment Management Co. said.  
 More than $500 billion of real estate will hit the market
as lenders dispose of assets or restructure debt on properties
where valuations have dropped below loan levels, keeping
“general” prices down for three to five years, Newport Beach,
California-based  Pimco , which runs the world’s biggest bond fund,
said on its website.  
 “Capital is clearly returning to commercial real estate,
helping to stem the value decline in the sector,” Pimco said in
a report based on research in 10 cities. “Optimism should be
tempered, because national price indices are misleading when
transactions are limited and fail to reflect the significant
uncertainty around property valuations.”  
 High  unemployment , potential re-regulation and an increased
savings rate are among factors that will “lengthen the
deleveraging process and suppress a recovery,” Pimco said in
the report dated June 2010 and led by  John Murray , commercial
real estate portfolio manager.  
 Competitive bidding for “lower-risk trophy assets” in
cities such as New York and Washington have led real estate
investment trusts and private equity funds to search for
acquisitions “even in challenged markets,” Pimco said.
Capitalization rates declined to 2006 and 2007 levels as 
non-U.S. buyers also sought property.  
 The capitalization rate is a measure of  real estate returns 
derived from net operating income divided by property value.  
 ‘Deleveraging Cycle’  
 As regional U.S. banks are forced to recognize losses on
construction loan portfolios, “the deleveraging cycle will take
far longer to play out” than in previous real estate cycles,
making a V-shaped recovery unlikely, the report said.  
 “Many assets may not return to their peak 2007 values
until the 2020s,” according to Pimco.  
 Investors will find “attractive” real estate
opportunities in the loan portfolios of troubled banks, large-
loan restructurings and subordinate positions of CMBS tranches,
Pimco said.  
 “Extreme discipline in assessing both the asset level and
macroeconomic risks will be critical to making the right
investment decisions,” the report said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Levy  in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        