-- Pound Reaches One-Month High Versus Dollar on Optimism Deficit to Be Cut
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-06-15T15:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/pound-nears-one-month-high-versus-dollar-on-optimism-about-deficit-cutting.html

          
          
             The pound reached a one-month high
against the dollar amid speculation an emergency budget that
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government will announce in a
week will contain the nation’s fiscal deficit.  
 The pound was also buoyed as a U.K. house-price gauge
climbed to the highest level in four months in May and stocks
advanced amid speculation the global economy will weather the
European debt crisis. Two-year government notes advanced after a
separate report showed inflation slowed in May for the first
time in three months, while still exceeding the government’s 3
percent upper limit.  
 “The momentum is with sterling-dollar at the moment, and
it can shrug off any negative data,” said  Steve Barrow , head of
Group of 10 foreign-exchange research at Standard Bank Plc in
London. “Of more significance is the fiscal side, and the
market is getting more confident” that Cameron will prevent a
crisis for Britain’s public finances, he said.  
 The pound climbed 0.6 percent to $1.4825 as of 4:15 p.m. in
London, after reaching $1.4836, the highest level since May 13.
Sterling slipped 0.3 percent to 83.11 pence per euro.  
 The U.K. currency dropped 8.3 percent against the dollar
this year on concern Britain’s government will struggle to
tackle the nation’s record budget deficit. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  is set to outline spending cuts in an
emergency budget on June 22.  
 Fitch Ratings said last week that Cameron’s coalition needs
to step up the pace of reductions to protect Britain’s top
credit rating. Moody’s Investors Service cut Greece’s credit
rating to non-investment grade yesterday.  
 Real Estate  
 The number of real-estate agents and surveyors saying house
prices increased exceeded those reporting declines by 22
percentage points, compared with 19 in April, the Royal
Institution of Chartered Surveyors said today. U.K.  stocks  rose
for a fifth day, the longest stretch of gains in four months.  
 Consumer prices increased 3.4 percent from a year earlier
in May, compared with 3.7 percent in April, the Office for
National Statistics said today in London. Economists predicted
3.5 percent, according to the median of 30 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Inflation  has now exceeded the
government’s 3 percent upper limit for three months.  
 The two-year note yield fell four basis points to 0.86
percent, widening the difference in yield between two-year and
10-year securities by three basis points to 268 basis points.
The yield on the short-sterling futures contract expiring March
2011 fell two basis points to 1.2 percent as investors added to
bets the central bank will keep rates lower for longer as the
inflation rate declines.  
 Backing for Cameron  
 Bank of England policy makers last week kept the key rate
at a record low for a 16th month and held a bond-purchase
program at 200 billion pounds. Governor  Mervyn King  said last
month he backed Cameron’s plan for spending cuts to lower the
budget deficit.  
 “The Bank of England will be more comfortable with its
accommodative stance so rates are going down and you have the
curve steepening” after the inflation report, said  Matteo Regesta , an interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
London. “There is a strong agreement on what needs to be done
in the U.K. and that gives a strong political authority to the
fiscal consolidation. Now it’s time to deliver.”  
 Shorter-term bonds are likely to offer the best total
returns in the U.K. as the Bank of England holds down interest
rates, according to Pacific Investment Management Co., which
runs the world’s biggest bond fund.  
 “The current outlook for the U.K. is one of low short-term
interest rates for a multi-year period with some longer-term
inflation risks,”  Michael Amey , executive vice president of
U.K. fixed income for Newport Beach, California-based Pimco,
said on the company’s website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        