-- Prancing Hare Is Priced at 940,000 Pounds in Royal Academy Show
-- Martin Gayford
-- 2010-06-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/prancing-hare-is-priced-at-940-000-pounds-in-royal-academy-show.html

          
          
             The thing to remember about the
Summer Exhibition at the  Royal Academy of Arts  in London is that
it’s a selling show, perhaps the largest in the world, certainly
the oldest.  
 So if you like the look of the big bronze hare by the late
Barry Flanagan that prances in the courtyard with a tambourine,
it can be yours for 940,000 pounds ($1.4 million). Prefer
something for a slenderer wallet? How about a Gary Hume silk-
screen print at 1,469 pounds?  
 This year’s edition is the 242nd Summer Exhibition since
the first took place in 1769. It’s the same, but different, as
it invariably is. The actual paintings and sculptures are new,
and most of the names are familiar because all 80 members of the
Royal Academy have the right to have works included if they wish
(because it’s a good show to sell in, they generally do wish).  
 The exhibition looks better than it used to, because for
the past decade or so it has been given more of a curatorial
spin. The chief co-coordinator in 2010 is the painter Stephen
Chambers, who has done such an effective job that several rooms,
especially toward the beginning, look completely coherent. Only
occasionally do you get the feeling that the person in charge
was thinking, “Where the hell can I put this?”  
 In RA Summer Exhibition terms, that’s quite an achievement.
For most of its history the show has looked like what it is: a
marketplace in which the goods frantically compete for
attention, or -- as  David Hockney  once put it -- a jumble sale.
One of the factors that has helped Chambers is that a number of
Academicians can be grouped around this year’s theme: “raw.”  
 Funky Abstraction  
 There’s a strong contingent of what you might call funky
abstract painters, who came of artistic age in the aftermath of
 Pollock  and  Rothko . John Hoyland, Frank Bowling, and Gillian
Ayres are all in that category, and all prominent and looking
good, particularly Ayres who passed 80 this year and has a
series of ebullient new pictures in Gallery III (35,250 pounds
to 70,500 pounds).  
 After decades of pure abstraction, Ayres has turned a bit
representational -- at least items such as palm trees crop up on
these new canvases. Thus her abstraction blends into the other
main subsection of “raw,” which is loose and messy
representational painting.   
 A good example is  Georg Baselitz’s  contribution: a large
picture of a dog, upside down, with a lot of blue paint dripping
over it from above. It’s more impressive than that description 
might suggest, in fact powerful. The price is unlisted, though
available on demand.  
 Brio Brushwork  
 The other distinguished German honorary RA  Anselm Kiefer 
contributes an epic picture, caked with plenty of clotted
pigment.  David Hockney’s  portrait “Maurice Payne, March 2010”
is more sharply drawn, still brushed with enough brio to fit
into the raw mood and to sing off the wall, which it does.  
 In the more definitely figurative department, a trio of
buxomly chunky life drawings from  Anthony Caro , doyen of heavy-
metal abstract sculpture, is a surprise, and a good one (5,875
pounds to 7,050 pounds).  
 Among the sculptures, the laurels go to  Yinka Shonibare’s 
“Crash Willy” in the Central Hall. It’s turning into
Shonibare’s summer: This work is more forceful than his ship in
a bottle recently unveiled on the Fourth Plinth in Trafalgar
Square.  
 A smash-up involving a vintage car and a headless dummy
wearing his trademark tropical fabric, it seems hard to
understand until you notice the license plate, which reads
“FTSE.” Pretty to look at, this touches a raw nerve.  
 The Summer Exhibition is at the Royal Academy of Arts in
London through Aug. 22. The show is sponsored by Insight
Investment Management Ltd. Information:
 http://www.royalacademy.org.uk .  
 ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     "Crash Willy" by Yinka Shonibare. The work is featured at the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition through August 22. Source: Royal Academy via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Large Left-Handed Drummer  
                       
                         
                           John Bodkin/Royal Academy via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Large Left-Handed Drummer" by Barry Flanagan. The work is on show at the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition through August 22. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Large Left-Handed Drummer" by Barry Flanagan. The work is on show at the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition through August 22. Photographer: John Bodkin/Royal Academy via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "High Summer" by Gillian Ayres. The work is displayed at the Royal Academy summer exhibition through August 22. Source: Royal Academy  via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Memories of Rain"  
                       
                         
                           John Bodkin/Royal Academy via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Memories of Rain" by John Hoyland. The work is on show at the Royal Academy summer exhibition through August 22. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Memories of Rain" by John Hoyland. The work is on show at the Royal Academy summer exhibition through August 22. Photographer: John Bodkin/Royal Academy via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
