-- Quebecor Media Plans New Channel as Option to `Politically Correct' News
-- Colin McClelland
-- 2010-06-15T20:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/quebecor-media-plans-new-channel-as-option-to-politically-correct-news.html

          
          
             Quebecor Inc ., a Canadian newspaper
publisher and cable-television operator, plans to introduce a
news channel that will challenge what the company says is
Canada’s “politically correct” TV coverage.  
 The English-language SUN TV News will offer a mix of news
and opinion and will be a partnership of its TVA Group and Sun
Media Corp. units, the Montreal-based company said today.  
 “Far too many Canadians are tuning out completely or
changing their dials to American all-news channels,” Chief
Executive Officer  Pierre Karl Peladeau  said today at a press
conference in Toronto. “They’re opting out or switching over.
That’s not good for Canadian television.”  
 Peladeau declined to say how much Quebecor would invest in
the new channel, or how many employees would be hired. The
company has named some hosts and said more would follow.  
 Quebecor is trying to replicate the success of its French
television service LCN, which tripled viewer ratings since it
switched to an all-news format three years ago, according to the
statement. Quebecor publishes more than 30 daily newspapers,
including the Toronto Sun and Ottawa Sun tabloids, and runs
French-language broadcaster TVA.  
 Kory Teneycke , a former spokesman for Canadian Prime
Minister Stephen Harper of the Conservative Party, has joined as
vice president of development for the channel, which is to start
broadcasting on Jan. 1, 2011.  
 ‘Range of Opinions’  
 “Our aim is not to bore people to death,” he said.
“We’ll leave that to the CBC.” Teneycke was referring to
Canada’s national, government-funded network, for which he
recently worked as a part-time political commentator, according
to the CBC News website.  
 “There will be a range of opinions,” he said. “It will
be different. It will be less politically correct.”  
 CBC will be “following their initiative with interest,”
Jeff Keay, a CBC spokesman, said in a telephone interview. “In
the meantime, we will stick to the honest, credible, transparent
and accountable journalism that Canadians have come to expect
from us,” he said.  
 Quebecor  rose 10 cents to C$33.30 at 4:10 p.m. in Toronto
Stock Exchange trading. The shares have gained 22 percent this
year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
 Colin McClelland  in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        