-- Quebec, Alberta Ask Canada to Stop National Securities Regulator Plan
-- Frederic Tomesco
-- 2010-06-15T16:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/quebec-alberta-ask-canada-to-stop-national-securities-regulator-plan.html

          
          
             Alberta Finance Minister  Ted Morton 
predicted other provinces may join his province and Quebec in
opposing a plan by Canada’s federal government to create a
national securities regulator.  
 Canada is the only member of the Group of Seven
industrialized nations without a national securities watchdog, a
situation the government calls an “international
embarrassment.” Finance minister  Jim Flaherty  announced details
of his plan to create the federal regulator last month, saying
he would submit it to the Supreme Court of Canada for a ruling
on whether it’s constitutional.  
 The Supreme Court will hear the case in April, Morton and
Quebec Finance Minister  Raymond Bachand  said today at a press
conference in Montreal where they reiterated their opposition to
the government’s plan.  
 “There may only be two of us today, but I am confident
there will be a lot more than two before the Supreme Court next
April on our side on this issue,” Morton told reporters. He
didn’t elaborate.  
 Alberta’s energy companies would suffer from the creation
of the commission, Morton said without providing specific
figures. The Western Canadian province is home to the largest
reserves of oil and gas outside the Middle East.  
 Harder to Raise Funds  
 “A federal regulator, inevitably based in Toronto, would
make it harder for Alberta’s junior oil and gas producers and
other businesses to raise funds for growth and development,”
Morton said. “It would be the same here in Quebec and in other
provinces and territories.”  
 Both Morton and Bachand said they support the federal
government’s plan to introduce stiffer penalties for fraud under
the country’s criminal code. Such changes are “completely
possible” within the existing passport system, Bachand said.  
 It’s wrong to suggest that a federal regulator would be
more effective in preventing fraud cases, Morton also said. He
cited  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme in the U.S. -- the home of
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 “It’s not as if the single national regulator, the SEC
model, is a cure-all,” Morton said. “They failed when it comes
to preventing fraud as well. Local enforcement is superior
because it’s based on local knowledge.”  
 Reduce Costs  
 A government-appointed panel  concluded last year  that
creating a national regulator to replace Canada’s existing
system of 13 regional agencies would reduce costs and
uncertainty for issuers and investors. The national body would
also bolster the country’s ability to respond to market changes
and provide safeguards against “systemic” risks that make
financial markets across the country vulnerable to a bad
decision by one of the provinces.  
 Flaherty has said a system with a few provinces opting out
is preferable to the current system.  
 Bachand, whose government is challenging the federal plan
at the Quebec Court of Appeals, disagrees.  
 “There is confusion in the mind of the federal government
between national policies and central policies,” he said today.
“We already have a national system in Canada, and it’s working
well.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        