-- Rally in Natural Gas Boosts Coal's Allure for Power Plants: Energy Markets
-- Mario Parker
-- 2010-06-15T20:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/rally-in-natural-gas-boosts-coal-s-allure-for-power-plants-energy-markets.html

          
          
             The 20 percent jump in natural gas
prices in the past month may prompt U.S. power producers to move
to coal, as rising temperatures boost air-conditioning demand.  
 Gas rose to $5.189 per million British thermal units in New
York today, the highest level in almost four months, as
Commodity Weather Group, a forecaster based in Bethesda,
Maryland, said the hottest areas over the next two weeks will be
the Midwest, South and Mid-Atlantic. The price of coal is about
$4.63 per million Btu, according to  Teri Viswanath , director of
commodities research at Credit Suisse Securities USA in Houston.  
 A switch to coal would reduce demand for gas just as power
producers enter the busiest season. Gas became cheaper than coal
in March, when prices dropped to a six-month low.  
 “Look at the prices and it’s clear that coal will
recapture the market share,” said Viswanath, whose coal-price
model factors in transportation costs and power-plant
efficiency. “It will provide a ceiling for gas prices.”  
 Natural gas for July delivery rose 18.3 cents, or 3.7
percent, to $5.189 per million Btu on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, the highest settlement price since Feb. 17. Gas has
been the biggest gainer in the  S&P GSCI Index  of commodities in
the past month.  
 As gas rallied since mid-May, coal dropped about 1 percent.
Central Appalachian coal for July delivery rose 90 cents, or 1.5
percent, to $62.72 per ton yesterday on the Nymex.  
 “At $5, no utilities are going to burn gas when they can
burn coal,” said  Meredith Bandy , an analyst at BMO Capital Inc.
in Denver. About 10 percent of power plants, mostly in the
Southeastern U.S., can switch between the two fuels, she said.  
 Stronger Demand  
 Demand for gas in April and May was about 11 percent higher
than during the same period of 2009 as costs declined, the
Energy Department said in its monthly  Short-Term Energy Outlook 
on June 8.  
 Coal averaged $58.47 a ton in April, equal to about $4.38
per million Btu, and the equivalent of $4.58 in May, using
Viswanath’s model. Gas futures in New York averaged $4.084 in
April and $4.154 in May after falling to $3.842 per million Btu
on March 29, the lowest settlement price since Sept. 28, 2009.  
 Stockpiles of coal at utilities dropped 0.4 percent in the
week ended June 7 and 5.3 percent from a year earlier, according
to an analysis by Genscape Inc. of Louisville, Kentucky.  
 Coal demand fell about 40 million tons last year and should
restore about 20 million tons of that consumption this year,
according to estimates by  Pearce Hammond , an analyst at Simmons
& Co. International Ltd. in Houston.  
 No Oversupply  
 “Utility inventories are higher than normal but I don’t
think we’re in an oversupplied market,” Hammond said. “With
natural gas at these prices, coal should jump in front of gas.”  
 About 45 percent of U.S. electricity output this year will
come from coal plants and 22 percent from gas power facilities,
according to the Energy Department.  
 Eastern coal producers closest to power plants with the
ability to switch between coal and gas will benefit the most
from stronger utility demand, Hammond said.  
 Hammond said  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. , the third-
largest U.S. coal producer, may be among those to gain. The
Abingdon, Virginia-based company has fallen 11 percent this year
to $38.53 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 Patriot Coal Corp.  in St. Louis, the fourth-largest eastern
U.S. coal producer, which has risen 6.8 percent this year, and
 James River Coal Co. , a Richmond, Virginia-based coal company,
which is down 1.1 percent, may also benefit, Hammond said.  
 Gas prices at the Henry Hub  in Erath, Louisiana, where New
York futures contracts are delivered, will average $4.49 per
million Btu in 2010 and $5.06 in 2011, the department estimated
in the monthly outlook. Gas at the hub rose 17.22 cents, or 3.5
percent, to $5.1111 per million Btu today, the highest price
since Feb. 18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “We’ve had a significant percentage increase in natural
gas and certainly we are going to start to hear squealing that
gas is getting a little dear at this time,” said  Stephen Schork , president of Schork Group Inc., a consulting company in
Villanova, Pennsylvania.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Moming Zhou  in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
   mparker22@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Gas rally boosts coal's allure for power plants  
                       
                         
                           Peabody Energy Corp. via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Coal is mined at Peabody Energy Corp.'s Rawhide Mine in the Powder River Basin, Wyoming, U.S. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Coal is mined at Peabody Energy Corp.'s Rawhide Mine in the Powder River Basin, Wyoming, U.S. Source: Peabody Energy Corp. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
