-- Transocean Cut U.S. Tax Bill by $2 Billion in Caymans Move, Magazine Says
-- Ryan J. Donmoyer
-- 2010-06-15T04:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/transocean-cut-u-s-tax-bill-by-2-billion-in-caymans-move-magazine-says.html

          
          
             Transocean Ltd ., owner of the
Deepwater Horizon offshore rig leaking oil in the Gulf of
Mexico, reduced its U.S. tax bill by almost $2 billion since
1999 when it moved its headquarters to the Cayman Islands, a
published report said.  
 Tax Notes magazine, a weekly journal published by  Tax
Analysts , said Transocean’s filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission show it cut its overall global tax rate to
16.9 percent in 2009 from 31.6 percent a decade earlier after
moving from Houston.  
 Transocean is seeking to limit its liability for the
ongoing oil-spill that resulted from the April 20 explosion of
the Deepwater Horizon rig, which killed 11 workers.  BP Plc ,
which owns the offshore oil lease and had contracted Transocean
to drill the well, has primary statutory liability for spill
clean-up and restoration costs that could top $23 billion,
according to a June 2  Credit  Suisse analyst report.  
 Transocean spokesman  Guy Cantwell  said he didn’t
immediately have a comment on the tax issue.  
 Transocean was the first of five Texas-based oil drillers
to use the so-called “corporate inversion” transaction later
banned by Congress. The others were  Noble Corp. , Nabors
Industries Ltd., Weatherford International Ltd., and Global
Santa Fe Corp. Global Santa Fe merged with Transocean in
November 2007.  
 “An unusually large concentration of inversion
transactions have been conducted by companies in the oil
services industry,” the article said.  
 Low-Tax Nations  
 Under the transaction, the companies established legal, so
-called brass-plate headquarters in low-tax countries such as
the Cayman Islands or Bermuda while usually keeping their
operational headquarters based in the United States. The
transactions were designed to minimize U.S. taxes on the
companies’ overseas profits.  
 Companies were criticized by lawmakers such as
Representative  Richard Neal , a Massachusetts Democrat, and Iowa
Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, for using the
corporate inversion transaction. Grassley in 2002 called the
transaction “immoral.”  
 Congress banned the transaction in 2004 on a prospective
basis. Efforts by the Senate to impose the changes retroactively
to Transocean and the other companies were rejected by the
House.  
 Transocean moved its headquarters to Switzerland in
December 2008.  
 According to the Tax Notes article, Transocean earned $12.8
billion and paid $2.2 billion in taxes since 2000. Had the
company earned those profits while paying its old 31.6 percent
effective tax rate, the report said, it would have paid $1.9
billion more in taxes.  
 Its rivals reported similar results, the magazine said.
Noble reduced its average tax rate to 17.9 percent from 27.6
percent and saved $678 million after moving to the Cayman
Islands. Nabors saved $652 million in tax since its move to
Bermuda, and Weatherford saved $923 million.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        