-- Australia Central Bank Says Average Rate Levels Give Stevens `Flexibility'
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-06-15T03:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/rba-says-average-rate-setting-gives-stevens-flexibility-.html

          
          
             The Reserve Bank of Australia’s
decision to return  borrowing costs  to average levels gave policy
makers flexibility to pause this month and gauge any fallout
from Europe’s debt crisis, a record of their meeting showed.  
 “In considering the setting of monetary policy, members
noted that the situation in Europe had deteriorated
significantly,” RBA officials said in minutes of their June 1
gathering released in Sydney. “Difficulties in Europe would
inevitably weigh somewhat on prospects for global growth.”  
 Today’s report underscores forecasts for the RBA to hold
off for now on adding to the six interest-rate increases since
early October. Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his colleagues judged
that inflation figures due late next month will help show the
degree of price pressures in the economy, the minutes said,
offering an “explicit guide” that rates will be left unchanged
next month, said  Rob Henderson  at National Australia Bank Ltd.  
 “The key to the minutes is that having increased interest
rates back to normal levels, they’ve given themselves some
flexibility in dealing with the current situation in Europe,”
said Sydney-based Henderson, who has analyzed the Australian
economy for more than three decades and served as an adviser to
former Prime Minister  Bob Hawke .  
 The RBA left borrowing costs unchanged this month, halting
the Group of 20’s most aggressive round of interest-rate
increases. While the global environment facing Australia’s
economy has become more uncertain, the “medium-term outlook
remained positive,” policy makers said in today’s statement.  
 Dollar Slips  
 The Australian dollar slipped to 85.62 U.S. cents at 12:11
p.m. in Sydney from 85.71 cents before the minutes were released.
The two-year government bond yield was unchanged at 4.59 percent.  
 “These previous actions afforded policy the flexibility to
await information on how the recent market uncertainty might
affect the global economy, as well as news about the outlook for
inflation,” the Reserve Bank of Australia minutes said.  
 A report published the day after this month’s board meeting
showed  economic growth  slowed to 0.5 percent in the three months
through March 31 from the previous quarter, when it surged 1.1
percent, with government spending helping to counter weakening
consumer demand.  
 “Domestically, members observed that conditions had been
mixed,” the bank said in today’s statement. “There had been a
high level of activity in the construction sector from the
fiscal stimulus, but  retail spending  had been relatively subdued
and there were some signs of slowing in the housing market.”  
 Property Prices  
 A 20 percent surge in property prices in the 12 months to
March 31 was a key reason policy makers increased the benchmark
overnight cash rate target to 4.5 percent last month from early
October, when the rate was at a half-century low of 3 percent.  
 “Members noted some signs that the earlier buoyancy in the
housing market was easing,” the minutes said. “Most notably,
auction clearance rates in May had been lower than the very high
levels of earlier months.”  
 The decision to keep borrowing costs unchanged on June 1
followed a month of turmoil on global financial markets as
investors expressed concern that sovereign-debt levels in some
European countries may undermine economic recoveries.  
 Greece’s credit rating was cut yesterday four steps to non-
investment grade, or junk, by Moody’s Investors Service, which
warned of the rising economic cost of the debt-strapped
country’s budget cuts.  
 “Notwithstanding the actions that had been taken by
European policy makers and the International Monetary Fund, the
situation remained uncertain,” the RBA minutes said. “Market
confidence had been severely eroded, and some governments were
now in the very difficult position of having to tighten fiscal
policy at a time when growth remained weak.”  
 Europe’s debt troubles triggered a 7 percent drop over the
past month in Australia’s currency, when measured on a trade-
weighted basis, the Reserve Bank said. “Members were informed
that the depreciation of the exchange rate generally had been
orderly, with a satisfactory level of liquidity in the market.”  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Governor of Reserve Bank of Australia Glenn Stevens participates in a panel discussion at an Australian Securities & Investments Commission (ASIC) event in Melbourne. Photographer: Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
