-- Treasury Futures Decline as Recovery Signs Offset European Debt Concerns
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-06-15T05:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/treasury-futures-decline-as-recovery-signs-offset-european-debt-concerns.html

          
          
             Treasury futures fell for a second
day amid speculation the global economy will weather Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis, curbing demand for the safest assets.  
 Benchmark 10-year yields approached a one-week high
yesterday after a report showed Europe’s industrial production
increased in April by more than economists had forecast. Data
this week are forecast to show manufacturing in the New York
region grew and U.S. industrial production rose. Asian stocks
rose and the cost of protecting Japanese and Australian bonds
from non-payment declined even as Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded Greece to below investment grade yesterday.  
 “Investors are gradually shifting attention back to
economic fundamentals, which are signaling continued
improvement,” said  Tsuyoshi Segawa , a strategist in Tokyo at
Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s second-largest banking
group. “Capital flight into safer assets such as bonds is also
beginning to weaken.”  
 The September futures contract for Treasuries fell 3/32,
or $0.94 per $1,000 face amount, to 120 7/32 as of 6:30 a.m. in
London, according to the Chicago Board of Trade.  
 The yield on the 10-year note rose one basis point to 3.27
percent, according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the
3.5 percent security due May 2020 fell 2/32 to 101 30/32.
Yields reached 3.32 percent yesterday, the highest since June 4.  
 The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s  general economic
index  rose to 20.0 in June from 19.11 in the previous month,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists ahead of the
data’s release today. Production at factories, mines and
utilities increased 0.9 percent in May, according to a separate
survey before the Fed releases the figures on June 16.  
 European Output  
 A leading indicator for the Chinese economy, the world’s
third biggest, rose “sharply” in April on a jump in new
construction work, the Conference Board said. The measure
gained 1.7 percent to 147.1, compared with a revised 1.2
percent increase in March, the New York-based research
organization said on its website today.  
 Output in the euro-region economy rose 0.8 percent from
March, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said yesterday. Economists had projected a gain of 0.5 percent.  
 The German 10-year bund yield, the euro-area’s benchmark
security, climbed seven basis points to 2.64 percent yesterday.  
 Asian stocks reversed earlier declines and  futures  on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose, weakening the refuge appeal
of U.S. government securities.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional share gained 0.2
percent after earlier losing as much as 0.3 percent and futures
on the S&P 500 Index rose 0.3 percent.  
 The Markit iTraxx Australia index decreased four basis
points to 137 basis points, Westpac Banking Corp. prices show.
The Markit  iTraxx Japan index  fell one basis point to 143,
Morgan Stanley prices show.  
 Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
debt against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. An increase suggests deteriorating perceptions
of creditworthiness and a drop shows improvement.  
 ‘Muted Reaction’  
 Moody’s cut Greece’s rating to Ba1, or junk, from A3,
citing “substantial” risks to economic growth from the
austerity measures tied to a 110 billion-euro ($134.5 billion)
aid package from the EU and the International Monetary Fund.  
 “Investors have already priced in the likelihood of a
default on Greek bonds by sending the euro to a four-year
low,” said  Hideyuki Suzuki , Tokyo-based general manager of
investment market research department at SBI Securities Co., a
unit of financier SBI Holdings Inc. “That’s why investors
showed a rather muted reaction to the latest rating action.”  
 Greece, which already was rated junk by Standard & Poor’s,
said the Moody’s downgrade “does not reflect in any way
Greece’s progress over the past months,” according to a
statement from the Finance Ministry in Athens.  
 Budget Deficits  
 The EU announced last month a rescue package of almost $1
trillion, with support from the IMF, to shore up the finances
of the region’s weakest economies amid concern that governments
will struggle to narrow their budget deficits.  
 Treasuries have returned 4.2 percent since the start of
this year, according to indexes from Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch unit. German bunds have returned 6.5 percent,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  
 The euro has fallen 9.3 percent this year versus its
developed-world counterparts, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes show.  
 Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis shouldn’t postpone the Fed
from raising  interest rates , Fed Bank of St. Louis President
 James Bullard  told reporters in Tokyo yesterday. His comments
contrast with Chicago Fed President Charles Evans and Atlanta
Fed President  Dennis Lockhart , who have in recent weeks said
European turmoil may slow any U.S. boost in borrowing costs.  
 The Fed will probably take “significant” time to shift
toward tighter monetary policy as long as the economy takes
years to reach full employment and inflation is low, said the
Fed’s regional bank in San Francisco.  
 RBA Minutes  
 Taking into account the effects of the Fed’s asset
purchases, “the recommended period of a near-zero funds rate
would end at the beginning of 2012,”  Glenn Rudebusch , the
bank’s associate director of research, wrote in a paper
released yesterday.  
 The Reserve Bank of Australia said in minutes from this
month’s policy meeting that Europe’s debt crisis would
“inevitably weigh” on global growth prospects and that
previous rate increases gave them “flexibility” to examine
the impact of European events.  

 
For Related News and Information:
Bond yield forecasts: BYFC <GO>
Top bond market news: TOP BON <GO>
World bond markets: WB <GO>
Credit market watch: CMW <GO>
Sovereign debt monitor: SOVR <GO>
Short-term liquidity SLIQ <GO>
*T
 
          
          


  


        