-- Treasuries Fall as Manufacturing Gain Buoys Stocks, Reduces Safety Demand
-- Cordell Eddings
-- 2010-06-15T20:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/treasuries-little-changed-after-reports-on-manufacturing-investment-flow.html

          
          
             Treasuries fell as a report showing
growth this month in New York manufacturing buoyed stocks and
reduced demand for the relative safety of government debt.  
 Rates  on four-week Treasury bills approached zero, a level
last breached in January, on quarter-end buying, shrinking
supply and a regulation requiring investors to purchase more-
liquid assets. U.S. debt advanced earlier after Greece’s credit
rating was cut four steps yesterday to non-investment grade, or
junk, by Moody’s Investors Service, citing economic risk.  
 “Stocks are doing well, and it’s taking some of the risk-
aversion trade off,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director
and head of Treasury trading at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in
New York.  
 The yield on the 10-year note rose five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 3.31 percent at 4:01 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. It earlier touched 3.32
percent, where the yield’s advance has halted for four straight
days. The price of the 3.5 percent security maturing in May 2020
fell 14/32, or $4.38 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 5/8.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rallied 2.3 percent, while
the Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 2.1 percent. Crude oil
for July delivery increased 2.6 percent to $77.04 a barrel.  
 “There has been a lot of negative news that has been
absorbed,” said  Mac Budd , head of U.S. rates trading in New
York at MF Global Holdings Ltd., a broker of exchange-traded
futures.  
 Bill Rate Drops  
 The  rate  on U.S. government debt maturing in one month fell
to 0.0091 percent, the lowest level since Feb. 1, before rising
to 0.016 percent. The government sold $31 billion of four-week
bills at 0.03 percent, the lowest level since Jan. 26, when the
rate was zero.  
 The three-month bill rate was 0.071 percent after dropping
yesterday to 0.0487 percent, the lowest since Jan. 26. Six-month
bill rates advanced to 0.158 percent after falling yesterday to
0.136 percent, the lowest since Jan. 29.  
 Investors are attracted to the safest maturities at
quarter-end to improve the quality of assets on their balance
sheets. Buttressing demand for bills are Securities and Exchange
Commission rules that went into effect in May limiting risk and
a reduction by the Treasury in the number of bills being sold as
it lengthens average maturities.  
 “The move in bill rates is more structural and technical
than liquidity- and flight-to-safety-induced,” said  Bonnie Williams , a Treasury bill trader in New York at Jefferies & Co.,
one of 18 primary dealers that trade with the Federal Reserve.  
 Taking Refuge  
 The three-month bill rate fell below zero for the first
time in December 2008 as investors sought the relative safety of
short-term U.S. government securities after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  
 Negative bill rates mean investors are willing to pay the
government to hold their money, protecting them from the
potential losses of other investments.  
 Treasury note and bond yields rose as the New York Fed’s
general economic index increased in June to 19.6, marking an
11th consecutive month of growth and in line with the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A reading
greater than zero signals manufacturing expansion in New York,
northern New Jersey and southern Connecticut.  
 Net buying of U.S. long-term equities,  notes  and bonds
totaled $83 billion in April, compared with net purchases of a
record $140.5 billion in March, Treasury Department data
released today in Washington showed. Economists in a Bloomberg
News survey projected long-term financial assets would show a
net increase of $70 billion in April.  
 China’s Holdings  
 China, the largest lender to the U.S., added $5 billion of
Treasuries to its  holdings , boosting the level to $900.2
billion. China added $3.6 billion of longer-term notes and
bonds, raising its position in debt maturing in two years or
more to $858 billion, while it added $1.4 billion of bills,
raising those holdings to $42.2 billion.  
 Greece’s rating was lowered to Ba1 from A3, Moody’s said in
a statement yesterday from London. The outlook is stable, the
ratings company said. Greece is already rated junk by S&P.  
 European governments are struggling to cut their budget
deficits and prevent the Greek debt crisis from spreading to
other countries such as Spain and Portugal. European Union
officials agreed last month on an unprecedented 750 billion-euro
($922 billion) rescue package for distressed nations after a
separate 110 billion-euro lifeline for Greece failed to contain
the turmoil and shore up the euro.  
 “The news about European sovereign risk is not exactly
new,” wrote  Chris Ahrens , head interest-rate strategist at the
primary dealer UBS AG in Stamford, Connecticut, in a research
note to clients.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        