-- Three-Month Dollar Libor Climbs to 11-Month High After Greek Rating Cut
-- Keith Jenkins
-- 2010-06-15T12:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/three-month-dollar-libor-climbs-to-11-month-high-after-greek-rating-cut.html

          
          
             The rate banks say they pay for
three-month dollar loans rose to an eleven-month high after
Moody’s Investors Service lowered Greece’s debt rating to junk,
boosting concern financial companies hold too much securities
from Europe’s most indebted nations.  
 The  London interbank offered rate , or Libor, for such loans
rose to 0.539 percent today from 0.537 percent yesterday,
according to data from the British Bankers’ Association. That’s
the highest level since July 6. Moody’s cut Greece’s rating to
Ba1 from A3 yesterday, citing “substantial” risks to economic
growth from the austerity measures tied to a 110 billion-euro
($135 billion) aid package from the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund.  
 “It’s a marginal increase,” said  David Keeble , head of
fixed-income strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment
Bank in London. “The Greek downgrade had some influence as it
heightened risk aversion.”  
 Three-month dollar Libor has more than doubled this year as
the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe heightened concern that bank
creditworthiness was deteriorating. That helped make financial
firms more wary about lending to counterparties.  
 The dollar Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks’ reluctance
to lend, was little changed at 32.4 basis points today. That
compares with an average of about nine basis points in the first
three months of the year. The spread surged to 364 basis points,
or 3.64 percentage points, after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  
 Overnight Deposits  
 Three-month Libor is a benchmark for about $360 trillion of
financial products worldwide, ranging from mortgages to student
loans. Rates are determined by groups of banks in a daily survey
by the BBA before 11 a.m. in London. Members provide estimates
on how much it would cost to borrow in 10 currencies for periods
ranging from a day to a year.  
 Overnight deposits with the European Central Bank rose to a
record yesterday as the sovereign debt crisis made banks wary of
lending to each other. Banks lodged 384.3 billion euros in the
ECB’s overnight deposit facility at 0.25 percent, the Frankfurt-
based central bank said in a market notice.  
 President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said June 10 that money
markets were “not functioning perfectly” as financial firms
concerned about counterparty risk park cash at the central bank.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        