-- Renown Aims for Operating Profit Next Year on Cost Cuts, China Expansion
-- Akihito Fukuda
-- 2010-06-15T03:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/renown-aims-for-operating-profit-next-year-on-cost-cuts-china-expansion.html

          
          
             Renown Inc. , a Japanese apparel
maker that’s selling a 41 percent stake to Shandong Ruyi Science
& Technology Group Co., plans to book a profit next fiscal year
for the first year in five as it cuts costs and expands in China.  
 “By partnering with Shandong Ruyi, we can procure textile
materials cheaply, which will help cut costs,” President  Minoru Kitabatake  said in an interview on June 11. “Because Shandong
Ruyi manufactures both materials and clothes, it’s a company
that will allow us to do everything that we had considered
necessary” to grow in China as the company returns to profit.  
 The alliance with closely held Shandong Ruyi, based in
Shandong, China, is also intended to help sell clothes to the
country’s growing middle class, offsetting a decline in demand
in Japan, Kitabatake said. Renown expects to open hundreds of
outlets in China, Yuuko Satou, a spokeswoman at the Tokyo-based
company said today.  
 “The tie-up will allow Renown to increase production sites
in China by utilizing the counterpart’s network, and it will
contribute to its earnings,” said Eiichi Sekine, a Tokyo-based
analyst at Nomura Institute of Capital Markets Research.  
 Profit Outlook  
 Renown  forecasts  a 500 million yen ($5.5 million) operating
loss for the current year ending February 2011, while Toyo
Keizai, a Tokyo-based financial information company, estimates
operating income will be 1 billion yen in the following year.
Operating loss narrowed to 460 million yen in the year ended in
February 2010, from 7.5 billion yen a year earlier.  
 Kitabatake didn’t give a target for profit next year and
the company hasn’t given a forecast for the period.  
 Shandong Ruyi’s purchase, agreed to last month, is the
first instance of a Chinese company buying control of a Japanese
firm listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s first section,
Bloomberg data show.  
 The 4 billion yen in proceeds from the share sale will be
spent on “facilitating the plans of opening stores in Japan as
well as in China, upgrading existing shops, advertisements and
on information technology,” Kitabatake said.  
 Shandong Ruyi will help sell four Renown  brands , including
Ensuite and Simple Life, in China, Satou said.  
 Renown gained 4.8 percent to 347 yen as of the 11 a.m.
midday break in Tokyo trading, compared with a 0.2 percent
decline in the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average. The stock has
climbed 82 percent since May 24, the day after the agreement to
sell shares to Shandong Ruyi was first reported in the Nikkei
English News.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Akihito Fukuda  in Tokyo at 
 afukuda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        