-- Reserve Bank's Battellino Says Slower Growth in China Would Help Australia
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-06-15T07:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/reserve-bank-s-battellino-says-slower-growth-in-china-would-help-australia.html

          
          
             Australia would benefit from slower
growth in China, which is driving a record mining investment
boom that threatens to stoke domestic inflation, Reserve Bank of
Australia Deputy Governor  Ric Battellino  said.  
 “There’s no doubt that if China was to slow down,” then
“in some ways I would welcome that because I think it’s
actually going to make our life here easier to have a more
moderate growth rate in China,” Battellino said, according to a
transcript of questions asked by financial executives at a
function in Sydney today.  
 Demand from China for natural resources and energy is
prompting companies such as  BHP Billiton Ltd.  to boost mining
investment to as much as 4.5 percent of gross domestic product,
three times the normal rate, according to the central bank. To
prevent a surge in inflation as growth strengthens, policy
makers boosted  borrowing costs  six times since early October.  
 “The challenge for the Australian economy for the next few
years is going to be how to accommodate this mining boom,”
Battellino said.  
 “And the lessons from history are that if you don’t
maintain fairly disciplined economic policies through those
periods, you can quickly get all sorts of distortions built up
in the economy -- inflation in particular,” he said.  
 Price Pressures  
 Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his colleagues judged that
inflation figures due late next month will help show the degree
of price pressures in the economy, according to minutes of their
June 1 gathering released in Sydney today.  
 The nation’s central bank has led Group of 20 policy makers
in boosting borrowing costs back to their average levels, giving
them “flexibility” to gauge any fallout from Europe’s debt
crisis, today’s minutes said.  
 “We were very keen to get interest rates back to a more
normal level, given the way the economy had evolved, and we
basically feel we’ve done that,” Battellino said today.  
 “So that was really the key reason why we now feel we’ve
got the flexibility, because of what we did in the past, to take
some time to see how things evolve,” he said.  
 The minutes of the bank’s meeting this month, when the
benchmark overnight cash rate target was kept at 4.5 percent,
show “members noted that the situation in Europe had
deteriorated significantly.”  
 ‘Quite Worrying’  
 Battellino echoed that remark, saying events in Europe
“really are quite worrying” because when governments get into
financial difficulty the question arises as to who can fund
potential bailouts.  
 “The starting position for these countries is so poor in
terms of their finances that even very severe fiscal tightening
still leaves them with big budget deficits,” the deputy
governor said.  
 “I have to say these sort of issues are pretty well
unprecedented and, to the extent they’ve arisen in the past,
they’ve usually been associated with wars and they’ve usually
ended up being sort of solved by periods of inflation,”
Battellino said.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        