-- Tribune Lenders Seek to Question Zell on Claims Buyout Led to Bankruptcy
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-06-17T22:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/tribune-bondholders-ask-fcc-to-reject-broadcasting-license-transfers.html

          
          
             Tribune Co.  lenders who oppose the
publisher’s reorganization are seeking to question Chairman  Sam Zell , the real-estate billionaire who led the company’s 2007
buyout and then put it into bankruptcy a year later.  
 A group of lenders owed $1.6 billion related to the buyout
plan to question Zell under oath June 28 in New York, according
to a notice filed in Tribune’s bankruptcy case in Wilmington,
Delaware.  
 Tribune’s reorganization proposal asks creditors to give up
their right to  sue  company insiders, including Zell, and the
lenders who financed the buyout over claims they left the
company insolvent.  
 Some lower-ranking creditors alleged the buyout was a
fraudulent transfer because it added more than $8 billion in
debt to the Chicago-based company while benefiting only Zell and
the shareholders.  
 The lenders who seek to question Zell have a lower payment
priority than  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and others who provided
buyout loans. The lower-ranking lenders would only get back
about $7 million, they said in court papers.  
 The senior lenders would recover about 62 percent of the
$8.72 billion they are owed in the form of more than 90 percent
of new stock to be issued by Tribune and more than 90 percent of
a new secured loan.  
 The junior lenders claim they could get $74 million if the
company fights and defeats any lawsuits related to the buyout.  
 Gary Weitman , a Tribune spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  
 Broadcasting Licenses  
 A group of bondholders who would recover nothing from
Tribune’s reorganization asked the  Federal Communications
Commission  to reject the company’s application to reassign its
broadcasting licenses as part of the bankruptcy exit plan.  
 Tribune owns the Los Angeles Times, the Chicago Tribune,
broadcasting stations in Los Angeles and other U.S. markets as
well as stakes in cable channels.  
 Tribune filed for bankruptcy in December 2008.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin J. Carey  in Wilmington,
Delaware, approved an investigation of the buyout. University of
California Los Angeles law professor  Kenneth N. Klee  is
scheduled to file a report next month on whether the buyout was
a fraudulent transfer that can be successfully challenged by the
bondholders.  
 Tribune’s creditors must vote on the proposed bankruptcy
exit plan by July 30. Carey will take the tally into
consideration when he holds a hearing in August to decide
whether to approve the reorganization and allow Tribune to exit
court oversight.  
 The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        