-- Romanian Leu Little Changed After Government Survives No-Confidence Vote
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-06-15T16:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/romanian-leu-little-changed-after-government-survives-no-confidence-vote.html

          
          
             The leu strengthened, then weakened
and finally was little changed against the euro in late trading
after Romanian Prime Minister Emil Boc survived a no-confidence
motion by eight votes, clearing the way for economic austerity.  
 The leu was at 4.2272 per euro as of 7:04 p.m. in
Bucharest, after gaining as much as 0.1 percent and depreciating
as much as 0.2 percent following the vote.  
 Legislators today voted against a no-confidence motion
filed by the opposition in an attempt to block austerity
measures designed to meet the conditions of an International
Monetary Fund loan. Boc has proposed reducing public wages by 25
percent and pensions and jobless benefits by 15 percent. The leu
weakened as much as 0.4 percent against the euro before the
vote, the lowest intraday level in more than a month.  
 “It is supportive for the market even if it is not good
for the people,” said  Murat Toprak , an emerging-market
strategist at Societe Generale SA in London. “The government
will be able to implement austerity measures to contain the
deficit and keep the IMF program going. From an investor’s
perspective, this reduces the sovereign risk.”  
 The European Union’s second-poorest member is relying on a
20 billion-euro ($24 billion) IMF and EU loan to resurrect its
economy from recession. Romania stands to receive 2.5 billion
euros from the IMF and 2.3 billion euros from the European
Commission if it meets the deficit target of 6.8 percent of
gross domestic product, agreed with the IMF as a condition of
its loans, Boc said on June 7.  
 Even so, the government will need to borrow as much as 3
billion euros this year, he said. Boc’s plan to cut wages and
pensions may push the economic recovery back a year, according
to ING Groep NV.  
 ‘Precarious’  
 The opposition and trade unions say the austerity measures
will spark a social crisis. State worker unions have staged
daily protests in front of the parliament as well as city halls
across the country to urge lawmakers to vote against the
government.  
 “The situation is starting to look precarious,”  Nigel Rendell , a senior emerging-market strategist at RBC Capital in
London, said by phone before the results. “The measures proposed
by the government look rather harsh and they are facing
widespread protests. There seems to be doubts whether the plan
is feasible.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        