-- Romanian Premier Survives Confidence Vote; Opposition Falls 8 Votes Short
-- Irina Savu
-- 2010-06-15T16:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/romanian-premier-survives-confidence-vote-opposition-falls-8-votes-short.html

          
          
             Romanian Prime Minister  Emil Boc 
survived a no-confidence vote by eight votes, triggering an
opposition pledge to appeal proposed austerity measures to the
Constitutional Court.  
 “I’m very disappointed and upset because eight lawmakers
held the lives of millions of Romanians in their hands,” Victor
Ponta, head of the Social Democratic Party, said after the vote
at the parliament in Bucharest. “We’ll attack this law at the
Constitutional Court because I think people need hope and the
court judges should give it to them.”  
 Opposition leaders called for the confidence vote after
Boc, 43, proposed budget-cuts that include reducing the wages of
state workers by 25 percent and pensions and jobless benefits by
15 percent. The International Monetary Fund has ordered Romania
to cut its budget deficit to 6.8 percent of gross domestic
product after it swelled to 7.2 percent last year.  
 The European Union’s second-poorest member is relying on a
20 billion-euro ($24 billion) loan from the IMF and EU to
bolster its economy, mired in the worst recession in 60 years.
The economy  shrank  2.6 percent in the first quarter and may
contract 0.5 percent this year, the IMF estimates.  
 The Romanian leu was little changed at 4.2270 per euro as
of 6:21 p.m. in Bucharest, after strengthening to as much as
4.2222 immediately after the vote.  
 “Lawmakers are aware the country needs to keep the IMF
agreement on track,” Adrian Moraru, a political analyst at the
 Institute for Public Policies  in Bucharest, said before the
vote. “They’re waiting for Boc to implement the measures.”  
 Eight-Vote Victory  
 The no-confidence vote received 228 votes, eight short of
the 236 needed for passage, according to results announced in
parliament. Boc’s government has 257 seats in the 471-member
parliament.  
 Boc has clashed with labor unions and opposition parties,
which say the austerity measures will spark a social crisis.
Unions failed to reach an agreement with the government after
weeks of talks and held daily protests outside government,
parliament and party offices over the past two weeks.  
 Thousands of clerks, medical staff, teachers and pensioners
protested in front of parliament today, shouting “Shame on
you” and “You’re trash if you don’t vote for us” as they
formed a human chain to block entrances to the building.  
 “I don’t feel any joy that the motion failed, I only feel
a huge responsibility,” Boc told reporters today. “These
measures are unpopular, but they are the only solution at this
point. I know how difficult this is for the people, and I hope
to make these measures as temporary as possible.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        