-- Royal Bank, Toronto-Dominion Close 36 Branches for G-20 Leaders' Summit
-- Doug Alexander
-- 2010-06-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/royal-bank-toronto-dominion-close-36-branches-for-g-20-leaders-summit.html

          
          
             Canadian banks plan to close at
least three dozen branches in downtown Toronto during the Group
of 20 Summit next week, citing concerns about security and
access for customers and staff.  
 Royal Bank of Canada, the country’s biggest lender, will
shut eight branches from June 24 to 27, including its head
office outlet inside the summit’s security zone.  Toronto-
Dominion Bank , Bank of Nova Scotia, Bank of Montreal and
 Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce  will close at least 28
branches during the meeting of global leaders.  
 “We’re assuming that there’s going to be disruptions in
people’s ability to get into the branches, both clients and
employees,” Royal Bank spokeswoman Judy Dobbs said in a phone
interview. “So we’re just trying to minimize the effect.”  
 The closed branches add to the businesses and attractions
shutting down during the summit in Canada’s financial hub and
largest city. The  CN Tower , the world’s second-largest building
and the city’s most-famous landmark, will be closed. The  Art
Gallery of Ontario  and the University of Toronto will shut,
while the  Toronto Blue Jays  moved three scheduled baseball games
to Philadelphia to play the Phillies.  
 The banks may become the target of protesters during the
meetings, as they did last year at a G-20 summit in London,
where about 5,000 protesters gathered around the Bank of
England. A group calling itself FFFC-Ottawa claimed
responsibility for the firebombing of a Royal Bank branch in
Ottawa last month, and has said it will bring its protests to
the Toronto event.  
 Security Measures  
 “Each bank takes its own decisions about what they’re
going to do, but obviously the security of the staff and
customers is number one,”  Canadian Bankers Association 
President and Chief Executive Officer  Nancy Hughes Anthony  said
in an interview.  
 A fenced  security zone  will be set up around a portion of
Toronto’s financial district, with access limited to workers
holding security passes. The G-20 summit will be held on June 26
and 27 at the Metro Toronto Convention Centre, following the G-8
meeting on June 25 and 26 at a lakeside resort in Huntsville,
Ontario, about 220 kilometers (136.7 miles) north of Toronto.
The federal government plans to spend about C$930 million
($900.5 million) on security and logistics for the two summits.  
 Branches being closed include locations at the corporate
headquarters of Toronto-Dominion, CIBC’s Commerce Court outlet
and the Bank of Montreal branch at First Canadian Place in the
Bay Street financial district, the banks said. Many of the
locations aren’t open on Saturdays and Sundays, so the closings
for most outlets are for two business days, June 24 and 25.  
 Limited Access  
 Traffic around downtown Toronto will be impeded by
additional security for the G-20 Summit, as well as motorcades
transporting dignitaries such as U.S. President  Barack Obama ,
Canadian police officials said in a statement on June 11.  
 Bank of Montreal , the fourth-largest bank, will close nine
branches in downtown Toronto. Some employees at those branches
will be sent to other locations, spokesman  Ralph Marranca  said.  
 “Recognizing that access likely will be impacted by G-20
Summit-related activity, we have decided to close several
branches that are in close proximity to the security zone,”
Marranca said.  
 Scott Wark, the general manager of Gabby’s, a sports bar
outside the security perimeter, said he relies on his Toronto-
Dominion branch on King Street for banking services, including
getting change for his tills. The branch will be closed June 24
and 25.  
 “It’ll mean I’ll have to get a cab and go somewhere to do
my banking,” he said in an interview.  
 Toronto-Dominion and other banks are encouraging clients to
contact their branch to find the nearest open location, or
conduct transactions online or over the telephone. In addition,
clients who need to access their safety deposit boxes at
affected locations are encouraged to do so before the summit
begins.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        