-- Russia to Buy Canadian, Aussie Dollars for First Time
-- Maria Levitov
-- 2010-06-16T14:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/russia-prepares-to-add-canada-australia-to-reserves-for-the-first-time.html

          
          
               Russia  may add the Australian and
Canadian dollars to its international reserves for the first
time after fluctuations in the U.S. dollar and euro.  
 “Adding the Australian dollar is being discussed,”  Alexei Ulyukayev , the central bank’s first deputy chairman, said in an
interview at an event hosted by Bloomberg in Moscow last night.
“There are pros and cons. We have added the Canadian dollar but
haven’t yet begun operations” with the currency.  
 U.S. dollars account for 47 percent of Russia’s reserves,
while euros make up 41 percent, British pounds 10 percent and
Japanese yen 2 percent, Ulyukyaev said in November. The central
bank has reduced dollars from 50 percent in 2006, when euros
accounted for 40 percent and the remaining 10 percent was in yen
and pounds. Russia’s international reserves, the world’s third
biggest, reached $458.2 billion on June 4.  
 President  Dmitry Medvedev  last year suggested Russia would
reduce its use of the U.S. dollar as a reserve currency after
the greenback lost 34 percent of its value against the euro in 2
½ years. The euro fell to a four-year low of $1.1877 on June 7
and has dropped 22 percent since Nov. 25 on investor concern
policy makers may fail to contain  Europe ’s debt crisis.  
 Push to Diversify  
 Russia’s push to diversify reserves “is more a result of
their desire to do something in response to the extreme
volatility of the dollar and the euro,” said Elena Matrosova, a
Moscow-based economist at BDO International, the financial
consultancy that lists the central bank among its clients. The
Canadian or Australian dollar “can’t be truly called
international reserve currencies because of their very limited
liquidity,” she said.  
 The Canadian dollar weakened 0.2 percent to C$1.0274 per  U.S. dollar  at 10:09 a.m. Toronto time, compared with C$1.0254
yesterday.  Australia ’s currency traded near the strongest level
since May 18 at 86.33 U.S. cents.  
 The Canadian and Australian dollars have been among the
best performers in the past 12 months as investors speculated a
recovering global economy would increase demand for the
countries’ raw materials. The Canadian dollar has gained 10
percent against the U.S. currency and 23 percent versus the euro
during that period. The Australian dollar is up 8.6 percent and
21 percent, respectively.  
 Ruble Gains  
 Medvedev has pushed for the creation of regional reserve
currencies and in July produced a prototype coin for a “world
currency,” which he said was needed to stabilize the global
economy.  
 Central Bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said May 27 that
Russia hadn’t changed the currency structure of its reserves
after year-end figures showed Bank Rossii increased the portion
held in dollars.  
 The U.S. dollar may account for more than half of Russia’s
foreign currency reserves by the end of this year, Paris-based
BNP Paribas estimated last month.  
 The ruble has gained almost 11 percent against the euro and
0.2 percent versus the dollar in the past 12 months. The Russian
currency strengthened for a fifth day against the greenback,
climbing 0.4 percent to 31.2450 at the close in Moscow for its
longest winning streak in two months.  
 Russia had a net capital inflow of about $3 billion in May
after an inflow of between $3 billion and $4 billion in the
previous month, said Ulyukayev.  
 “There was a small capital inflow of about $3 billion in
May, according to preliminary calculations,” he said.  
 The Russian government forecasts no net capital inflow this
year after outflows of $52.4 billion in 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Abelsky in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Australian banknotes  
                       
                         
                           Ian Waldie/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Australian and New Zealand dollars decline on concern recovery is slowing. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Australian and New Zealand dollars decline on concern recovery is slowing. Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          May 17 (Bloomberg) -- Sean Callow, a currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp, talks about Russia's interest in adding Australian and Canadian dollars to its currency reserves.
     Callow also discusses the outlook for the euro. He speaks with Bloomberg's Mark Barton from Sydney on Bloomberg Television's "Global Connection." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Canadian currency  
                       
                         
                           Norm Betts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A file photo shows Canadian currency arranged for a photograph in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A file photo shows Canadian currency arranged for a photograph in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.  Photographer: Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Russian flag flies atop Russia's central bank in Moscow on Dec. 22, 2009. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
