-- San Marino Says Italy's Crackdown on Tax Evasion Threatens Its Economy
-- Steve Scherer
-- 2010-06-15T14:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/san-marino-says-italy-s-crackdown-on-tax-evasion-threatens-its-economy.html

          
          
             San Marino, the world’s smallest
republic, complained that it’s being unfairly punished by
Italy’s campaign to crack down on tax evasion.  
 San Marino, which has a  population of 31,300  and is
surrounded by the Italian regions of Emilia-Romagna and Le
Marche, said 5 billion euros ($6.1 billion) flowed out of the
nation during its larger neighbor’s tax amnesty. Italy will
require companies operating in San Marino to report their
revenue from doing business there starting July 1.  
 “It’s as if Italy wants to paint us as a country that
doesn’t want to cooperate,” Antonella Mularoni, San Marino’s
foreign secretary, said today during the first press conference
ever called by the republic in Rome. “The Italian position has
become incomprehensible.”  
 The new reporting requirements are a “commercial
embargo,” said Marco Arzilli, the secretary for tourism and
economic planning. The 5 billion euros that left San Marino
represent about a third of the total funds managed by the
republic’s financial system, and they won’t probably come back,
said Pasquale Valentini, the finance secretary.  
 Italy is aiming to collect 1.3 billion euros in revenue
from increasing its fight against tax evasion in 2011. The
seven-month tax amnesty that ended on April 30 lured 95 billion
euros back to the country last year from abroad.  
 Italy has refused to sign a treaty on rules regarding
double taxation with San Marino though technical negotiations
ended successfully in June of last year, San Marino said today.  
 The San Marino government said it has passed laws to
increase transparency, including the abolition of anonymously
held companies. It was removed from an Organization of Economic
Cooperation and Development black list of tax havens last year
and also from a watch list compiled by the Financial Action Task
Force, the international organization that coordinates anti-
money laundering policy.  
 About one-fifth of San Marino’s 1.5 billion-euro economy is
based on banking. It was recognized by Italy as a sovereign
state in 1862.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Scherer  at   sscherer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        