-- Sandler O'Neill Hires Carlos Mendez as Chief of Structured-Finance Group
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-06-15T18:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/sandler-o-neill-hires-carlos-mendez-as-chief-of-structured-finance-group.html

          
          
             Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, the
investment bank for financial companies, hired former
Institutional Credit Partners LLC executive  Carlos Mendez  to
lead its new structured-finance group.  
 Mendez, 40, was most recently the senior managing director
of ICP’s capital markets division, where he completed “hundreds
of fixed-income securities transactions across a variety of
assets, including residential mortgages, commercial real estate,
consumer receivables and structured credit,” New York-based
Sandler O’Neill said today in a statement.  
 His division will be “responsible for arranging new term
funding and alternative capital solutions and will advise
clients on current recapitalization requirements,” according to
the statement. Sandler O’Neill’s customers face “unprecedented
change” after the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression, said  Jon Doyle , head of the firm’s fixed-income
group.  
 “With the banking system under continued duress and
financial regulatory change forthcoming, the manner in which
depository institutions operate is evolving rapidly,”  Alan Roth , Sandler O’Neill’s head of residential-mortgage- and asset-
backed securities sales and trading, said in the statement. “As
a result, companies reliant on bank funding will need to rethink
how they finance themselves.”  
 ‘Shouting Match’  
 Sandler O’Neill managed more public equity offerings by
bank and thrifts last year than any competitor, raising about $9
billion, the company said, citing SNL Financial data. During the
credit boom ended in 2007, the firm was among the largest
underwriters of so-called collateralized debt obligations backed
by trust-preferred securities, or TruPS, sold by banks and
insurers to raise capital, working on 17 of the deals before the
market froze, according to data compiled by RBS Securities Inc.  
 PrinceRidge Holdings LP, run by former UBS AG executives
 John Costas  and  Michael T. Hutchins , earlier this year announced
plans to take over ICP’s capital-market operations, which had
almost 60 employees, after Mendez quit the firm he helped found.
He left ICP, which started in 2004 as a Bank of New York
affiliate, after a “shouting match” with ICP Chief Executive
Officer  Thomas Priore , industry newsletter Asset-Backed Alert
reported in March.  
 Mendez’s group will spend much of its time trying to help
banks improve their capital positions by dealing with assets on
their balance sheets, such as by restructuring holdings, hedging
positions and selling securities, he said in a telephone
interview.  
 New Managing Directors  
 He said he also has been working to see if regulators, who
lawmakers may ban from allowing TruPS as Tier 1 capital, will
accept similar alternatives, and will seek business in
traditional securitization markets, such as credit-card deals.  
 “Hopefully, we get rewarded with that with some of the
banks that we fix,” Mendez said.  
 Joshua Eaton ,  Andrew Mauritzen  and  Chris Howley  have also
joined Sandler O’Neill as managing directors and initial members
of Mendez’s group, according to the statement. Mendez will also
be responsible for helping expand fixed-income sales and
trading.  
 Eaton most recently was general counsel and co-chief
operating officer at Dune Capital Management LP where he was
involved with transactions such as the acquisition by private
investors of IndyMac Federal Bank from the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp, according to the statement.  
 Former Job  
 Mauritzen most recently served as a managing director of
ICP, where he executed “complex” financings for companies such
as Petroleos Mexicanos, the Mexican national oil company known
as Pemex, Sandler O’Neill said. Howley also most recently was a
managing director at ICP, where he led the advisory and
solutions team.  
 Other members of Mendez’s team at ICP landed at Chicago-
based Citadel Investment Group LLC’s investment banking
business, including  Rob Roberto , who joined there earlier this
year to run a new residential- and commercial-mortgage
securities division with almost 30 people.  
 Mendez said it was “very depressing for me” not to join
his entire ICP group at a new employer. Sandler O’Neill’s
relationships with banks, which “often go back 20 years,”
match what he has been working on since 2008, including advising
some lenders that later failed, he said. The firm provides ample
opportunity for new business amid the industry’s struggles and
regulatory changes, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        