-- Sarkozy to Lift Retirement Age in Campaign to Stem Pension System Losses
-- Helene Fouquet
-- 2010-06-15T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/sarkozy-is-determined-to-lift-retirement-age-stem-pension-system-losses.html

          
          
             French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
plans to raise the 60-year-old retirement age in an overhaul of
the pension system, risking confrontation with labor unions as
he seeks to safeguard the nation’s top credit rating.  
 “It would be irresponsible to cut the pensions of those
retired and to massively raise taxes at the same time,” Sarkozy
said yesterday, saying he was “determined” to lengthen working
lives. “That would kill growth and jobs.”  
 Labor Minister  Eric Woerth  will detail the proposals at a
briefing in Paris today. The retirement age may be raised to 62,
probably by 2018, Les Echos reported, without saying where it
got the information. Taxes may be increased on the highest-
income households and companies may pay a new levy in exchange
for lower labor charges, the newspaper said.  
 Europe’s debt crisis has added urgency to Sarkozy’s
campaign to stem pension losses, which he has called his top aim
before 2012 elections. The  state pension fund  will lose 10.7
billion euros ($13.2 billion) this year, up from 8.2 billion
euros last year and 5.6 billion euros in 2008, the government
estimates. The shortfall would reach 50 billion euros in 2020
under current policy, the Budget Ministry forecasts.  
 Including the pension shortfall, the government’s budget
deficit has risen to 8 percent of  economic output , up from 3.3
percent in 2008 before the full effect of the financial crisis
hit. The government is aiming to trim the deficit to within the
European Union limit of 3 percent in 2013.  
 Sarkozy’s cabinet will discuss the measures July 13 and
parliament will debate them in September.  
 Mitterrand’s Move  
 France’s legal retirement age has been 60 since Socialist
President  Francois Mitterrand  cut it from 65 shortly after his
1981 election. Meanwhile, Germany in 2007 decided to gradually
raise its retirement age to 67 from 65.  
 Sarkozy, who pledged a year ago to avoid “austerity”
measures, is also seeking to reassure markets that finances will
improve in coming years. The yield premium on French bonds more
than doubled in a week earlier this month to 0.55 point on
concern that the sovereign-debt crisis that began in Greece is
spreading to core-euro countries like France. The difference in
yield between German and French 10-year bonds is now 0.44 point,
up from around 0.25 point for most of May.  
 Budget Minister  Francois Baroin  said that month it would be
“tough” for France to maintain its triple-A debt rating. He
later amended his comments to say that the top rating was safe.  
 “Although downside risks to France’s fiscal consolidation
plans still exist, Fitch senses a notable shift in the
government’s attitude towards the importance and urgency of
fiscal consolidation,” Maria Malas-Mroueh, associate director
in Fitch Ratings’ Sovereign Group, said May 28 in a note.  
 ‘Out of the Question’  
 Any change in the retirement age would be progressive,
Sarkozy said yesterday. “Rules cannot change overnight,” he
said. “It is out of the question to tell someone about to
retire that he has to change all his plans.”  
 The measures will apply to all workers, including civil
servants, Sarkozy said. “It is fair that this reform applies to
everyone, workers of the private and public sectors,” he said.  
 Union leaders say they won’t accept any change to France’s
legal retirement age of 60 and have called a series of general
strikes this year, none of which has managed to shut down
transport. The opposition Socialist Party is also defending
retirement at 60 and says higher taxes will plug the deficit.  
 In 1995, a previous government dropped an attempt to
eliminate special retirement rules for some professions after
walkouts by transport workers crippled the country.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        