-- Saudi Adds 13 Trillion Feet of Non-Associated Gas to Boost Economic Growth
-- Anthony DiPaola
-- 2010-06-15T15:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/saudi-adds-13-trillion-feet-of-non-associated-gas-to-boost-economic-growth.html

          
          
             Saudi Aramco, Saudi Arabia’s state
oil and gas producer, added 13.2 trillion cubic feet of non-
associated natural gas reserves in 2009 as it sought to boost
resources to fuel power plants and economic growth.  
 Total recoverable gas reserves rose 4.6 percent to 275
trillion cubic feet, Saudi Aramco said in its  annual review 
posted on its website today. The company completed seven gas
exploration wells, 119 development wells and discovered the
Sanaman deposit last year.  
 Saudi Arabia, the largest Gulf Arab economy, is seeking new
gas supplies to feed growing demand for electricity and support
industries such as petrochemicals. The holder of the world’s
largest crude oil reserves is looking at alternative energy
sources such as solar power to desalinate water and fuel oil to
fire power plants to save natural gas for industrial projects.  
 The state company produced on average 8.6 billion cubic
feet of gas a day last year and plans to expand capacity by 4.5
billion cubic feet a day by 2014, it said in the review.  
 Aramco is drilling a record number of wells to find more
resources and boost gas output, Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said
in December. The company aims to add value by expanding refining
and petrochemical output and gas production to meet rising
domestic demand, its chief executive officer said last month.  
 Optimize Consumption  
 “We are increasing our efforts to find and develop gas,”
 Khalid Al-Falih  told management when presenting the company’s
business plan. “We will remain engaged in helping to optimize
the Kingdom’s energy consumption,” he said according to a
statement posted on the company website last month.  
 Aramco discovered non-associated gas reserves at the
Sanaman field, 136 kilometers (84 miles) southeast of Riyadh.
The company is seeking to increase the proportion on non-
associated gas, or fuel extracted from a field that is not
combined with crude oil, in its portfolio as output from such
areas won’t be limited by OPEC quotas that curb oil production.  
 Gas flowed from a test well at the Sanaman field at a rate
of 8 million cubic feet a day, Aramco said. Other gas supplies
were found along with oil in the Sirayyan deposit.  
 Aramco last year completed an expansion project that
boosted crude oil output capacity to 12 million barrels a day,
completing a $100 billion investment program. The company plans
to invest more than $120 billion in the next six years on crude
oil and petrochemical projects, Chief Executive Officer  Khalid al-Falih  said Jan. 31.  
 The company aims to complete its Karan gas program in 2013
to deliver 1.8 million cubic feet a day from an offshore field
for processing at Khursaniyah. A gas processing plant there is
set to come on stream this month, Aramco said.  
 OPEC Quota  
 Saudi Arabia, the largest member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries and its de-facto leader, has led
production cuts announced in 2008 to support prices. Aramco has
about 4 million barrels a day of unused oil output capacity
because of the output quota.  
 Saudi Arabia’s energy demand will rise to 8.3 million
barrels a day of oil equivalent in 2028 from 3.4 million barrels
last year unless it becomes more efficient, al-Falih said in a
speech posted on the website April 26. Improved efficiency may
reduce that demand growth by 50 percent, he said.  
 Aramco aims to discover a minimum 5 trillion cubic feet
(142 billion cubic meters) of so-called non-associated gas
reserves annually, al-Naimi said in December. It opened areas
for exploration in partnerships with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ,
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as Sinopec, OAO Lukoil
and Eni SpA.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        