-- SEC May End Fragmented Systems for Slowing Equities Trading, Schapiro Says
-- Nina Mehta
-- 2010-06-15T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-15/sec-may-end-fragmented-systems-for-slowing-equities-trading-schapiro-says.html

          
          
             Rules aimed at slowing equity
trading on some stock exchanges that don’t apply to the whole
market may need to be curtailed, Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said.  
 A program that began last week to impose nationwide halts
when shares swing more than 10 percent is a “first step” and
more regulation may be needed, Schapiro said during an event at
New York Law School yesterday. Differing restrictions among
almost 50 U.S. trading platforms were blamed for exacerbating
the May 6  selloff  that briefly sent the Dow Jones Industrial
Average down 998.5 points.  
 “These disparate trading conventions across markets really
exacerbated volatility and made things worse,” she said at the
event, which was sponsored by the  Financial Women’s Association .
“We’ll look at that very carefully.”  
 A New York Stock Exchange system that switches from
electronic trading to automated auctions overseen by humans
encouraged sell orders to flow to other platforms with few if
any buyers on May 6. The SEC and Commodities Futures Trading
Commission said in a May 18 report that they are analyzing the
brakes, known as liquidity replenishment points.  
 LRPs were triggered about 100,000 times during the height
of the May 6 plunge, most for no more than a few seconds,
compared with an average of hundreds times during a comparable
period on other days, according to  Larry Leibowitz , chief
operating officer for NYSE parent NYSE Euronext. The measures
went into effect in 2006.  
 Trade Cancellations  
 The Big Board says the mechanisms prevented it from having
to cancel trades following the crash. Other venues voided almost
20,800 transactions that were at least 60 percent away from the
market price when the plunge began at 2:40 p.m. in New York.  
 Nasdaq Stock Market said on June 2 it would introduce its
own system of halts later this year to supplement those begun
last week. The program would apply only on Nasdaq, according to
a statement from New York-based parent Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  
 Market-wide circuit breakers, which are being expanded this
week to   Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  companies, provide a
temporary “floor” for stocks in times of volatility, Schapiro
said. The SEC will study if it “creates issues to have other
mechanisms above that floor,” she said.  
 The SEC will move “very quickly” to add stocks not in the
S&P 500 and exchange-traded funds to the program, Schapiro said.
The agency is waiting for exchanges to submit rule proposals to
expand the new circuit breakers to those securities, she said.  
 Circuit Breakers  
 Commissioners will consider whether a 10 percent decline in
five minutes is the right trigger for circuit breakers and
whether the rules should apply to the opening and closing
periods of the day. The halts are now in place from 15 minutes
after trading begins until 25 minutes before it ends.  
 Some securities professionals have said five minutes may
not be long enough to “rebuild the  order books ” on exchanges,
Schapiro said. The period is intended to allow investors to
assess news in a stock and decide whether they want to submit
new buy and sell orders. The SEC will determine what the right
period of time is for these trading halts, she said.  
 The SEC has also asked exchanges to formulate rules
covering the circumstances in which they will break trades so
investors will know in advance which executions will be
canceled, she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        